This keeps just getting so good. Herbalife is turning into a Royal Rumble with all the big names all attacking each other. Today Carl Icahn went on Bloomberg TV and slammed Bill Ackman for his "holier than thou" short of Herbalife, while reiterating that he didn't respect Ackman. Now Ackman is out with a press release slamming Carl Icahn. The gist: After a lengthy court battle, in which Icahn was forced to make a payout to Ackman's investors, Icahn called Ackman and said he wanted to be friends. Ackman declined the friendship offers. He then says Icahn is dishonest! Great stuff, read: ----------------------------------- NEW YORK,† Jan. 24, 2013† /PRNewswire/ -- In response to comments made today by† Carl Icahn† on Bloomberg Television,† William A. Ackman, CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. ("Pershing Square") today issued the following statement. †"On† March 1, 2003, on behalf of my former fund, Gotham Partners, I entered into a contract with† Carl Icahn, signed by him, to sell him a 15% stake in Hallwood Realty Partners.† He paid my investors† $80† per share and agreed to what he called "schmuck insurance."†† The agreement provided that he would pay my investors an earnout equal to 50% of his profit on Hallwood after he received a 10% annual return if he "sold or otherwise transferred" his shares for value within three years.† Fewer than 13 months later on†† April 14, 2004, HRPT Property Trust acquired Hallwood.† As a result, Carl and the other Hallwood shareholders received† $136.16† per share in cash for their shares.† †Under the terms of our agreement, Carl owed my investors about† $4.5 million. He refused to pay.† I was forced to sue him on behalf of my investors.† On September 6, 2005, the court awarded us summary judgment and found the agreement to be "clear and unambiguous."† He again refused to pay and appealed.† We won onappeal and Carl was forced to post a bond for what he owed us and appealedagain.†† In general, Carl waited to the last few days to appeal in order todelay the inevitable.† After eight years and Carl's appeals of the judgment were denied, in 2011 the Court forced Carl to pay my investors the† $4.5 million they were owed plus 9% interest per year from the date of the sale.After Carl paid my investors, he called me up, congratulated me on winning, and said that he wanted to be my friend.† I told him that I had no interest in beinghis friend.† †Carl Icahn† is a great investor, but, in my experience, he does not keep his word."For a copy of the contract agreement between Gotham Partners and Mr. Icahn, please visit:† http://goo.gl/BzUa9. †About Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P.Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. ("Pershing Square"), based in† New YorkCity, is a SEC-registered investment advisor to private investment funds. Pershing Square manages funds that are in the business of trading - buying andselling - securities and other financial instruments.† Funds managed by PershingSquare are short the stock of Herbalife Ltd.† Pershing Square may increase,decrease, dispose of, or change the form of its investment in Herbalife for anyor no reason, at any time.† Pershing Square may change its views about or itsinvestment positions in Herbalife at any time, for any reason or no reason. Pershing Square may buy, sell, cover or otherwise change the form or substanceof its Herbalife investment.† Pershing Square disclaims any obligation to notifythe market of any such changes.† Please see the full Disclaimer appearing onwebsite† www.factsaboutherbalife.com.†
Library of CongressA recent NGO report says the global recession increased the incidence of child labor around the world. Perhaps that's not surprising. But it got us wondering, why doesn't the U.S. have child labor anymore? The answer may seem obvious ‚Äî we're too wealthy for that kind of thing. That's mostly true. But a landmark survey of child labor studies by Dartmouth economics professor Eric V. Edmonds paints a much more nuanced portrait of the situation. We picked through Edmonds' research to explain the absence and presence of child labor in a given country, and how the U.S. finally came to outgrow the phenomenon. We've illustrated the story using snapshots taken by Lewis Hine, an investigative photographer for the National Child Labor Committee (NCLC), who sought to portray working and living conditions of children in the United States between 1908 and 1924. In addition to being a fascinating bit of US economic history, it's also incredibly important for countries today that are dealing with the same issue.
koadmunkee / FlickrChina's population is rapidly aging, causing wages to rise due to labor shortages. Leaders in China recognize that this is a major problem, and many agree that the country's one-child policy is to blame. Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist believes ending this policy is the "new leaders' best, safest and easiest reform in 2013." But in a new report to clients, Lu notes that lifting the policy may not necessarily solve the country's demographic problem.† From Lu: Chinaís own experiment of two-child policyYicheng county of Shanxi province has maintained a two-child policy since 1985. Yicheng is just a typical rural county in Shanxi and has a GDP per capita that is about the national average. All couples in Yicheng are allowed to have two children if they marry three years later than the minimum age required nationwide (22 years for men and 20 for women) and wait for about 6 years to have the second child after the first. Despite its more relaxed regulations, the countyís population growth rate has been lower than the national average. From 1980 to 2000, the population in Yicheng only grew 19.7%, compared to 28.4% in Shanxi and 25.5% nationwide. Yichengís imbalance between boys and girls is also smaller than the national average. In 2000, Yichengís male-to-female ratio at birth was 106:100, much better than national figure of 117:100. Its total fertility rate (TFR) was only 1.51, much lower than 1.8. The trend appears to be similar in other cities/counties that have participated in such experiments with two-child policy, such as Jiuquan in Gansu, Enshi in Hubei and Chengde in Hebei province. It suggests that Chinaís TFR would decline naturally with or without the one-child policy, but a relaxed policy could help correct Chinaís imbalance in sex ratio. It seems nothing is a sure thing. SEE ALSO: What If China's Economy Lands Hard ? &gt;
It's a day that ends in "y" so once again, Japan is just going nuts. With the yen tanking, the Nikkei is up nearly 2%. 
On February 1, JCPenney will be holding a sales event, sources told us. But it's still not calling the "event" a "sale." The event seems to be a Valentine's Day sale for fine jewelry. It's happening precisely one year after JCPenney changed its pricing strategy to "every day low prices" as part of CEO Ron Johnson's initiative to wean customers off of sales and coupons. "It's like we're going back to 2011 all over again," one JCPenney employee told us. "We can say 'clearance' again... just not 'sale' (we say 'event') or 'coupon' (we say 'reward')," the employee explained. "Funny how the customer knows this but it seems like no one nowadays knows it in Plano. Then, when they do a coupon or sale and it was a success, they all congratulate everyone on a great idea ó it's not a new concept!" The "fair and square" strategy was meant to simplify things for JCPenney customers, limiting sales to month-long price cuts on certain items.† The retailer has relapsed a few times, bringing back the word "clearance" and having some sales events like a slew of discounts for July 4th last year. "It's funny how things come full circle," a JCPenney exec told us. "The customers voted that they want the old JCP back." JCPenney locations will re-signing their entire stores with empty sign holders for now. The signs are arriving on Monday and they have to be up before the event on February 1, a source told us.† We've reached out to JCPenney for comment and will update this post with its response.
The yen is plunging again. It's down 0.34 percent against the dollar. A dollar will get you ¬•90.63. Reuters' Wanfeng Zhou reports: "Traders cited reports quoting Japan's deputy economy minister, Yasutoshi Nishimura, as saying the yen's decline is not over and a dollar/yen level of 100 would not be a concern. Nishimura was also quoted saying that only if the dollar rises to 110-120 yen would it add to domestic import costs."  Bloomberg
Today, we got lucky. Icahn was on Bloomberg TV with Trish Regan this afternoon, and he got super blunt about his dislike for Ackman. Not that he really needs to ‚Äî Icahn has taken the other side of Ackman's now famous Herbalife short. And in the past, the two have met in Court over a deal they did back in 2003 ‚Äî Ackman won. "Look, it's no secret to the world and to Wall Street - and most guys on Wall Street I sort of like and I get along with - and it's no secret I don't like Ackmanl," Icahn told Regan. "I have no respect for him and I don't like him and that's not a secret. But that doesn‚Äôt mean that I'm going to go in and buy stock in a company necessarily just to get him. Frankly, I don't like the way he did this anyway. If you're short, you go short and hey, if it goes down you make money. You don't go out and get a roomful of people to badmouth the company. If you want to be in that business, why don't you go out and join the SEC?" Regarding Herbalife, he said that if Ackman had problems with the company's business model, he should not have a "holier than thou" attitude about the company and say "I'm doing this for the good of the world and I want to see sunshine on Herbalife," Icahn said. "I mean, that's bull.... I just call it bull. I think it's completely disingenuous, but I think Bill Ackman is disingenuous," he added. "I'm not here to criticize Ackman necessarily but if you ask me about it, I'll tell you that's what I believe." Regan correctly pointed out that Icahn is getting at the heart of a big philosophical question in today's world of public hedge fund battles. Sh asked Icahn if he thought short-selling and public positions were actually hurting the market, as some have argued. Icahn agreed: "You can't go out and say you're honestly good of humanity," he said. "You're doing it because you're selling something short and you want it to go down... If you listen to his (Ackman's) thing, I listened... you're just trying to scare a lot of people and I don't know how that helps the whole market and the whole sense of things... what you should be doing ‚Äî if you're going to do that by the way and you believe you're doing the right thing ‚Äî don't go out and short it first, go out and do it. I would say that's not the job of a guy who runs a hedge fund." And that is why Ackman and Icahn can't even be in the same restaurant together. Check out the full video below:
Dear Readers, This week, I shared a warm interaction I had with Ira Gluskin, and received a superb report by Geordie Young, one of our portfolio managers. Not only were they pleasant surprises, but they highlight the thinking of our Investment team. I wanted to share them with all of you. Enjoy! † TIME ASYMMETRYEarlier this week, I showed Geordie Young, who helps manage our credit funds among other things, a copy of an op-ed piece from the FT that had to do with behavioural shifts that are still occurring in this post-bubble-bust-recovery- financial repression cycle. Geordieís role on the Investment Team is one of portfolio manager, but he is also a big picture macro guy and what I like about him is that he is an out-of-the-box thinker. He passed on this original piece of work he wrote recently titled Time Asymmetry on the possible range of outcomes in terms of which part of society will end up bearing the costs and benefits from this era of massive fiscal deficits and ultra-low interest rates, and I just thought it was too good to just sit here on the shelf. Enjoy. Letís take a stylized example of a society with two groups: Generation Old and Generation Young. Generation Old owns the vast majority of the risky productive assets (i.e. capital stock, like private businesses and public equities). However Generation Old no longer has the risk tolerance or time horizon to continue to optimally hold these assets and wait for future uncertain cash flows. Generation Old needs the present value (PV) in cash today and canít wait around until the future. Generation Old doesnít need any more capital appreciation, it needs certainty; it wants to lock in the current PV level of wealth. So it wants to sell risky assets for cash or guaranteed cash streams. Generation Young has no money to buy the risky productive assets. So one outcome is the outright cost of risky productive assets will fall to a level where Generation Young can afford them (e.g. the case the San Fran Fed is implying when it forecasts zero real return in equities for five years). But what might end up happening is that risky productive assets have to trade down through intrinsic value just to get to a clearing level Generation Young can afford. This can lead to stunted capital formation and sub-optimal risk taking in the economy, producing subpar economic growth in the meantime and damaging long term potential growth going forward. However, there is another option. While lacking money today, Generation Young does have an asset ó time. Another outcome is the spread between the cost of time and risky assets gets attractive enough for Generation Young to do the spread trade. What is the cost of time: interest rates. Borrowing and lending is simply the process of moving cash flows in time. So Generation Young borrows money from a third party, uses that money to buy risky assets from Generation Old, and uses time to pay off the borrowings. Generation Young thereby pockets the positive carry and accumulates wealth. The third party turns around and gives Generation Old a safe place to park the cash proceeds of the risky asset sale. The third party doesnít need to offer Generation Old much in terms of compensation, just security. Who is this natural third party: the government. When risk assets are not cheap on an outright basis, but are cheap on a relative basis compared to the cost of time, then the government should be encouraging the levered long trade. It accomplishes all the social goals a government wants: Generation Old gets their money, the generational transfer of assets happens near fair value ó not at distressed levels ó with the capital stock continuing to be maintained and upgraded, and Generation Young gets to build wealth. The problem is a time asymmetry problem between when Generation Old wants the money and when Generation Young will be able to accumulate the money. This positive carry between risk assets and time will be captured by someone. The problem right now is that the system is set up such that only a select few investor classes can access this type of trade. Professional investor classes like private equity and hedge funds have preferred access to this. The irony is that the government encourages average households to lever up unproductive assets like houses at preferred borrowing rates, but makes it punitive for these same households to lever up productive assets (i.e. high margin rates, low leverage ratios and tight mark-to-market requirements). To make matters worse, the investor class that should be householdsí advocates in this trade (insurance companies and pension funds) are being forced by the regulatory environment to do the opposite. The focus on mark to market solvency, managing duration gaps, and asset risk weighting instituted by regulators is conspiring to force these investors to sell equities and buy (low-yielding) bonds. We need to make the discussion about borrowing levels more nuanced. Debt is neither good nor bad, it just is. The real question is what the borrowing is used for. Money borrowed for consumption is rarely a good idea, as the integrated sum of spending over a lifetime is a constant, so borrowing to consume is sum zero; a surfeit of spending today is offset by deficit of spending in the future.† On the other hand, borrowing to invest in productive assets does not have to be sum zero. Obviously good investment decisions need to be made, and the rate of risk adjusted return needs to exceed the cost of borrowing, specifically where the return comes from generated cash flows, not valuation gains. But if these criteria are met then borrowing should be encouraged. We discussed a stylized generational example, but the situation in the U.S. is not that far off. The elder generational cohort ó the Boomers ó are no longer capitalists, but have aged into risk adverse rentiers. They no longer have the appetite or time horizon to make large scale investments and bet on growth; they are more interested in ìdividendingî out the capital stock to themselves. As such, the countryís capital stock is being treated like it is in ìrun-offî mode, without the necessary maintenance and investments for the future being made. The younger generational cohort ó the Echo Generation ó has the demographic numbers, but doesnít have the accumulated savings yet to afford the assets. Given the largest inter-generational asset transfer in history is about to go down, it would seem the government has a keen incentive to make sure it happens smoothly, with minimal disruption to the productive capacity of the economy. If debt levels within the system are elevated for a period of time, then so what, as long as the debt is used to procure productive assets at fair prices. There are three implicit assumptions being made in this argument that can be used as a route of critique. First is the assumption that the risky productive assets are at fair value. If one doesnít believe risky assets are at fair value, it is akin to saying the risk premium in market prices needs to be even higher. That is a fine debate to have, and ultimately one the market needs to decide, and settle. It is not the place for government to get involved in this. Second assumption is that Generation Young will use this surplus of time in a productive manner. If Generation Young is not able to maintain (or grow) the cash flow generating properties of the risky productive assets, then the whole analysis collapses and it devolves into a Ponzi scheme. This is where government involvement should be focused. The government has the responsibility to insure the productive capacity of Generation Young is optimized. This may involve the government getting involved, or getting out of the way, as the situation warrants. Regardless, this should be the prime focus of all elected officials and regulators. If the system doesnít unlock the potential in Generation Young then the system is doomed. The third assumption is that during the time it takes for Generation Young to pay off the financed purchase of the risky assets, that none of the parties involved (specifically Generation Young or the Third Party) are ìstopped outî. Effectively since there is leverage involved, the problem involves an element of path dependency. However, this is where the government needs to think rationally about risk. As long as the government believes in the capabilities of Generation Young, and in its institutionsí ability to unleash these capabilities, then the government should reduce or mitigate the path dependency aspect. In essence, the government needs to not allow society to get caught up in ìmark to marketî as a measurement of risk but focus solely on the probability of permanent drawdown of productive capacity as the appropriate measure of risk. That is the proper metric of risk for society, and a metric too few people are looking at today. ODE TO IRAIf you ever told me in years gone by that I would have my office beside that of Ira Gluskin, I never would have believed it (maybe because until we moved location to the Bay Adelaide Centre in the Fall of 2011, Ira never had an office). Yesterday, Ira walked into my office to wish me a happy new year. And he asked me how my father was ... very touching. I told him that for an 86-year old with advanced Parkinsonís and now wheelchair-bound for the most part (but mental acuity intact) that he was not doing too badly at all, and that I visited dad this past weekend and he was actually in pretty good humour. I told Ira ìwe have you to thank that we can afford to have him in the posh Four Elms Retirement Home up there in Thornhillî. Ira asked why that was the case. I told him that my dad followed his advice on the Income Trust space a decade ago. Ira looked at me quizzically. So I reminded Ira that back in 2003, the two of us shared the podium at the annual forecaster gala dinner to the Toronto Society of Financial Analysts at the Sheraton Centre ballroom. This was my first full year in New York with Mother Merrill and I was back home with the honour of delivering the macro forecast along with Iraís market musings. We sat at the head table together and Ira didnít say a word to me ó he poured over his written text and penned in changes and comments at the margins through the entire dinner. I donít even think he ate (if I recall, he didnít miss anything special). He delivered his speech after me, but left his prepared text that he had agonized over for much of the dinner on the table. And then he went on to deliver a phenomenal speech in front of 1,300 people over the outlook for Income Trusts with no notes at all. It was an incredible performance. The following weekend, I visited my parents at their condo and my dad asked me what Ira Gluskin had to say at the dinner event. I told him that Ira discussed the outlook for Income Trusts, which at that point in time was a market largely ignored and yet about to embark on years of impressive returns. Dad was a very active investor (savvy too) and asked me to get a copy of Iraís speech for him to peruse, and I told him that I would give the folks at Gluskin Sheff a call and see if they would forward me a copy. Patricia Maguire, Iraís executive assistant (then and now) happily emailed me a copy of the prepared text (the one Ira never gave, but he is always best when he talks off the cuff anyways) and I in turn handed a copy to my father. And he was very pleased. Dad sat down at the dining room table, I remember this like yesterday, devouring Iraís speech at the same time that he was devouring my motherís (may she rest in peace) famous cheese blintzes. I asked dad if he was at all interested (ahem) in what I had to say at the forecast dinner. Pause. Then dad asked me ... ìwill it make me any money?î <U+2028>I said ìprobably not, but itís still interesting.î <U+2028>Dad replied ìthanks son. I think Iíll just stick to what Ira has to say.î Like I said, listening to Ira and building exposure in the Income Trust arena and accumulating all those cash flows played a key role in dadís current stay at the Four Elms retirement residence. So when I thanked Ira the other day and he asked me why I was thanking him and I recounted this story to him, well, I have to admit ... I donít think I have heard Ira laugh that hard in my four years at the firm. Itís a rather infectious laugh. And get this ó Patricia still has that speech on file! And while the Income Trust theme has morphed into a more broadly diversified Premium Income Strategy, the sermon he gave on that fateful night back in 2003 is still very much worth a read. In fact, Iím getting her to print another copy off for dad ... whoever said that nostalgia ainít what it used to be? Thereís actually few things better than a fond memory, especially one that helped pay for dadís retirement! Thanks again, Ira.
AP Photo/Khin Maung Win The hottest emerging economy for resources is Myanmar. It's been a previously ultra-closed society that's now starting to open up. As Myanmar opens up its economy and western countries lift their sanctions on the country, companies have been flocking there to tap into its resources. The country is rich in energy, precious stones like jade and rubies, teak, copper, and biomass like charcoal to name a few. Myanmar reportedly has 11‚Äì23 trillion cubic feet in natural gas reserves and 50 million barrels of crude oil reserves. They recently auctioned 18 oil and natural gas blocks. We put together a photo tour of some of its resources. In the case of energy, since many of its oil and gas fields haven't been developed, we put together satellite images of some of its fields.
MattHurst via www.flickr.com creative commonsWorking at a corporate law firm can be insane and soul-crushing and depressing. Why would anyone do it? Well, some people like it. And then there are those who want to get rich. And then there are the people who just desperately want to pay off record-high student loan debt. Case in point: one Ivy League law graduate who is suffering through†a corporate job he hates. "The main reason we take these horrible but high-paying jobs is because we have so much debt," the young lawyer tells us. (And no,†this is†not the same†disgruntled lawyer†we profiled in November.) In two years at a big New York firm, our source has managed to pay back $95,000 in student loan debt. He still has $70,000 to go, which he considers a "manageable debt load." He really hates his job. "I'm pretty sure they're about to find me out. I mean I'm not really a lawyer: I'm a moron. If you task me with anything that is remotely important, because I couldn't care less about it, I'm not going to be able to do it and everyone will get mad at me ó so before I get found out I have to leave," he says. "Right now I have a good reputation there, but it's going to turn sour in another month or two." His feelings about work range from boredom to cynicism. "[Working on a bond sale] is just horrible too because it's boring.†If it was like structuring a deal†and I had to think about it for 15 minutes then I'd be like: 'I got you. Buy this thing, turn this into the holding company. Those two things hold shares of this one. Done. I'll see guys later.' And they'd be like, 'Oh he's so brave that lawyer. Look at him go. What a hero. He saved us. Wait a secondóhe cost us a bunch of money! Fooled again!'" If he could do it all again, he wouldn't. "Going to law school was the biggest mistake of my life," he says.†"Yes, absolutely the worst decision I've ever made. It's not a complete mistake, I just wish I'd gone about it differently. I probably would have gone to a lower ranked school with a bigger scholarship. I would have also gone to business school maybe. It's one year shorter." At least he's better off than the†tens of thousands of lawyers who can't find jobs. DON'T MISS: 12 Victims Of The Law School Bubble &gt;
Robert Johnson ‚Äî Business InsiderCanada continues to report disturbing stats about its housing market. December‚Äôs home sales in the two hottest Canadian housing markets indicate that a large crisis may be looming up north. Compared to December 2011, home sales are down 19.5 percent in Toronto and 31.1 percent in Vancouver, two of the three biggest cities in Canada. Nationally, home sales only fell by 4 percent over the course of the 2012. The stricter rules on mortgages put into place in the summer of 2012 to cool down the market appear to be working. In ‚ÄúWhy Haven‚Äôt We Crashed Yet‚Äù, Kate Beswick from Canadian Mortgages Inc. reports that the impending crash everyone‚Äôs expecting is won't occur "until some dramatic trigger happens that really delivers a blow to the market. And that blow is likely not to come in the form of interest rate hikes.‚Äù The Bank of Canada recently chose to put off an interest rate increase, and maintained its overnight rate at 1 percent. The argument is simple: a crash needs a cause. Benjamin Tal, deputy chief economist at CIBC, argues that as it stands, the Canadian housing market will likely stagnate unless unemployment or interest rates surge ‚Äì which would leave people unable to afford their homes. Something housing guru Robert Shiller said back in September still rings true today:¬† "I worry that what is happening in Canada is kind of a slow-motion version of what happened in the U.S." Due to the lack of a trigger, this softening and decline in home values will take place over an extended period of time. It‚Äôs not likely that this bubble will suddenly pop. Rather, if you listen to Shiller, a more apt comparison would be the slow deflation of a blow-up mattress.
A man from Cincinnati took out an ad in the New York Times telling hedge fund titan Bill Ackman to "get a life."† Here's a copy that's being passed around on Twitter:† "Ackman get a life." Small space ad in today's NYT denouncing Bill Ackman's short position in Herbalife. @jeffmacke twitter.com/chickenalakingÖ The activist investor has pledged to donate 100% of his personal profits he makes from the short to charity.† Herbalife's stock is currently above the pre-Ackman short level. Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short, Herbalife's stock is up about 1.2%. †The stock touched a 52-week low of $24.24 on December 24th. † SEE ALSO: Bill Ackman's Dizzying Takedown Of Herbalife &gt;
AP ImagesDespite recent hiccups in gold prices, if you're investing in commodities, it is still the best, safest bet, according to Morgan Stanley's commodities team led by Hussein Allidina. Silver offers a little more risk and reward than gold; Allidina expects it to outperform gold in 2013. The report also favors soybeans and corn as demand for them is accelerating faster than supply. However, the report warns commodities investors away from aluminum and sugar, two commodities that are acutely oversupplied at the moment. We pulled the price targets and paraphrased the investment theses for 14 major commodities from Morgan Stanley's latest Commodity Manual.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Tail Hedging Is An Important Part Of Portfolio Construction (Advisor Perspectives) Quiet markets characterized by low volatility and no clear risks make investors complacent and can often cause them to take on dangerous, leveraged positions. Eventually, deleveraging and losses follow in this cycle, which often leads to a typical behavior pattern. "When the markets experience large losses, tail risk hedging comes back into fashion, leading to an old-fashioned surge in demand that drives up volatilities across markets. This in turn reduces the overall effectiveness of na√Øve hedges, and means one has to be smart about when and where to spend hedging premiums. "On the other hand, when markets are quiet, investors can quickly forget the pain suffered during prior crises, and may choose to eliminate the cost of tail hedging, or even more dangerously become sellers of tail hedges. ‚Ä¶Tail hedging is not just a trade, but an asset allocation decision for robust portfolio construction." 2013 Will Be The Year Of The "Great Rotation" (BoFA's Hartnett) BofA Merrill Lynch's Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett says money will move from bonds to equities.¬† In fact he said it's already begun. Even though the public data doesn't reflect investors moving from bonds and into stocks just yet, Hartnett says BofA's data on client positioning does: "The past seven years have seen a Great Divergence in terms of fund flows. Investors have poured $800bn into bond funds and redeemed $600bn from long-only equity funds. But recent data show the first genuine signs of equity-belief in years. The past 13 days have seen $35 billion come back into equity funds ($19 billion of which is via long-only)." Ray Dalio Thinks 2013 Will Be A Transition Year (CNBC) In an interview with CNBC, Ray Dalio, founder of Bridgewater Associates said 2013 is likely to be a transition year where large amounts of cash will move to stock and all sorts of stuff ‚Äì goods, services, and financial assets. Dalio said people will spend more with the cash, they will invest in equities and gold ‚Äì the cash will move. Low Cost Funds Geared Around Alternative Indexes Are Getting A Lot Of Attention For Investors¬† (The Wall St. Journal)  At a time when yields are low and inflation risk is looming, bond investors can find an "unlikely ally" in alternative bond funds that don't just track market-cap sized indexes. "These funds are geared around alternative indexes that forsake market-capitalization sizes to rank bond issuers, and advisers say they are starting to get more attention from affluent investors concerned about inflation rising sooner rather than later." The Only Limitation The U.S. Faces Is Political, Not Economic, Not Fiscal (The New Republic) In an interview with Liaqat Ahamed at The New Republic, outgoing Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner said a lot more can be done with fiscal policy, especially if it is accompanied by a "credible long-term plan to bring down deficits". "I think that the best economic strategy for the country would be to combine a set of very powerful near-term investments in infrastructure and elsewhere that would help support demand with long-term fiscal reforms that would restore sustainability. I think the limits we face right now are only political, not economic, not fiscal."

StarbucksUPDATE: Starbucks earnings are out. Click here to refresh for updates &gt; The company reported earnings of $0.57 per share, as expected. Revenues came in at $3.8 billion, a hair below expectations of $3.84 billion. Comparable sales came in stronger than estimates almost across the board. Sales were up 6 percent globally, versus expectations of a 5.5 percent gain. Sales in the Americas were up 7 percent versus expectations of a 5.9 percent gain. Sales in China/Asia Pacific were up 11 percent versus expectations of a 9.4 percent gain. However, sales in Europe were soft. The stock is down slightly in after-hours trading. Below is text from the release: Fiscal First Quarter 2013 Highlights: ‚ÄúStarbucks strong performance in Q1 demonstrates the strength, and unique resilience, of our increasingly global business, and the power and growing relevance of the Starbucks brand to consumers and communities all around the world,‚Äù said Howard Schultz, chairman, president and chief executive officer, Starbucks Coffee Company. ‚ÄúSolid growth in our U.S. retail business, further expansion of our Channel Development initiatives and continued successful execution against our expansion plans throughout China and Asia Pacific all contributed to the record results we announced today. Starbucks has never been better positioned to achieve the goals we have set for ourselves around the world and I have never been more optimistic about our future.‚Äù ‚ÄúRecord earnings in the first quarter continued our strong momentum,¬†reflecting the underlying strength in our core business,‚Äù commented Troy Alstead, chief financial officer.¬†‚ÄúWe delivered excellent holiday results with 6% global comps, marking the 12th consecutive quarter of comps in excess of 5%.¬†Our first quarter results demonstrate both efficiency, with record US productivity, and innovation, with the successful launch of Verismo, our newest growth platform.‚Äù Added Alstead, ‚ÄúDespite significant and unexpected cost pressures in the quarter, we achieved our earnings growth target and delivered record EPS.¬†Starbucks strong Q1 performance reaffirms our confidence in the aggressive FY13 growth targets we announced in early November. The quality and diversity of growth drivers in the business, combined with our continued focus on operational excellence, gives us confidence in sustainable, strong profitable growth.‚Äù First Quarter Fiscal 2013 Summary Consolidated net revenues reached a record $3.8 billion in Q1 FY13, an increase of 11% over Q1 FY12. The increase was primarily due to a 6% increase in global comparable store sales, and incremental revenues from 401 net new company-operated store openings over the past 12 months. The 6% increase in comparable store sales was comprised of a 4% increase in the number of transactions and a 2% increase in average ticket. Also contributing to consolidated net revenue growth was 13% revenue growth in Channel Development and 14% revenue growth in licensed stores. Consolidated operating income increased 13% to a record $630.6 million, compared to $556.0 million for the same period a year ago. Operating margin expanded 40 basis points to 16.6% this quarter, compared to 16.2% in the same period last year. The margin increase was primarily due to increased sales leverage. Segment Reporting Update At the beginning of the first quarter of FY13, the company decentralized certain leadership functions in the areas of retail marketing and category management, global store development and partner resources, to support and align with the respective operating segment presidents. In conjunction with these moves, certain general and administrative and depreciation and amortization expenses associated with these functions, which were previously reported as unallocated corporate expenses within "Other," are now reported within the respective operating segments to align with the regions that they support. In order to conform prior period classifications with the new alignment, the historical consolidated financial statements have been recast as reflected in the segment results below. This change did not impact historical consolidated results. Q1 Americas Segment Results Net revenues for the Americas segment were $2.8 billion in Q1 FY13, an increase of 10% over Q1 FY12. The increase was primarily due to a 7% increase in comparable store sales, comprised of a 4% increase in the number of transactions and a 2% increase in average ticket. Also contributing to the net revenue increase was incremental revenues from 253 net new company-operated store openings over the past 12 months and 11% revenue growth in licensed stores. Operating income increased to $590.3 million in Q1 FY13, growth of 8% compared to $548.9 million for the same period a year ago. Operating margin decreased 50 basis points to 20.8% in Q1 FY13. The margin contraction was driven by expenses related to the company's October global leadership conference, litigation charges and the impact from Superstorm Sandy. These expenses negatively impacted Q1 FY13 operating income and operating margin by $53 million and 190 basis points, respectively, compared to the same period in the prior year. Partially offsetting those expenses was increased sales leverage. Q1 EMEA Segment Results Net revenues for the EMEA segment were $306.1 million in Q1 FY13, an increase of 1% over Q1 FY12. The increase was driven by 41% revenue growth in licensed stores which was nearly offset by a decline in company-operated revenue as a result of recent store portfolio optimization activities including the sale of the Ireland store portfolio and UK airport locations to licensed partners as well as the closure of underperforming stores in the UK. Operating income of $22.3 million in Q1 FY13 grew 18% compared to $18.9 million for the same period a year ago. Operating margin increased 110 basis points to 7.3% compared to 6.2% in the prior-year period. Margin expansion was primarily driven by a continued focus on cost management and leverage from strong licensed store revenue growth. Q1 China/Asia Pacific Segment Results Net revenues for the China/Asia Pacific segment were $214.1 million in Q1 FY13, an increase of 28% over Q1 FY12. The increase was primarily due to incremental revenues from 166 net new company-operated store openings over the past 12 months and an 11% increase in comparable store sales. Additionally, licensed store revenue growth of 14% contributed to the revenue growth for the region. Operating income increased 26% to $72.1 million in Q1 FY13, compared to $57.3 million for the same period a year ago. Operating margin decreased 60 basis points to 33.7% in Q1 FY13 compared to 34.3% in the prior-year period. The margin contraction was primarily due to investment spending to support continued growth in China and a shift in the composition of our store portfolio from licensed to company-operated stores. The margin contraction was partially offset by lower performance-based compensation compared to the same period in the prior year when the region significantly outperformed its operating plan. Q1 Channel Development Segment Results Channel Development net revenues were $379.8 million in Q1 FY13, an increase of 13% over Q1 FY12, primarily driven by sales of Starbucks- and Tazo-branded K-Cup¬Æ packs. Also contributing to the revenue growth were incremental sales related to the launch of the Verismo system. Channel Development operating income grew 24% to $96.8 million in Q1 FY13 compared to $77.9 million for the same period a year ago. Operating margin increased 230 basis points to 25.5% in Q1 FY13 compared to 23.2% in the prior-year period. The margin expansion was mainly due to lower coffee-related costs, partially offset by Verismo launch costs. Fiscal 2013 Targets Starbucks reaffirms its fiscal 2013 targets as follows: Company Updates Click here for the full release &gt; ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Starbucks earnings are set to cross any minute. Analysts expect the company to report earnings of $0.57 per share and revenues of $3.84 billion. We will have the release LIVE when it comes out. Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
TinyTall / FlickrWe saw new post-crisis highs in the Dow and S&amp;P.† Apple, on the other hand, plummeted. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,825, +46.0, +0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,494, +0.0, +0.0 percentNASDAQ: 3,130, -23.2, -0.7 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
RTE News editor Tony Connelly brought us another key excerpt via Twitter from billionaire investor George Soros' speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland: Soros: the divergence between the Yen and euro will be aggravated, will badly affect Germany #davos In a note today, BofA currency strategist†Athanasios Vamvakidis explained why Germany has two good reasons to be worried about the competitive devaluation of the yen underway in Japan. Vamvakidis wrote: First, Germany is worried that the Eurozone could end up being the last one to "play it fair." The ECB's strict inflation mandate limits its actions to support growth, actions that would have also weakened the currency, as in the case of the Fed and the BoE. Its commitment to a market-driven exchange rate prevents it from directly or indirectly manipulating the Euro, while its full independence makes any comments from European politicians about the Euro almost irrelevant, in contrast with the case of Japan recently. As a result, if all other central banks target, directly or indirectly, a weaker currency, the Eurozone will end up with the strongest currency, which would be far from a market-driven level. The final outcome will be a weaker Eurozone economy, which could eventually threaten the ECB's independence.   Second, Germany's recovery depends to a large extent on China and could suffer from a weak JPY. To a large extent, Germany and Japan target similar markets, with seven out of their top-20 trading partners being the same (Table 1). Moreover, Germany is Japanís fourth most important export market, while Japan is Germanyís 10th most important export market. China in particular is the third most important export market for both Germany and Japan. Even more important, despite Japan's export share to China being much larger than the one of Germany (Chart 5), exports to China has been a driving force for Germany's recovery since the global crisis of 2008-09, contributing to growth much more than in other major advanced economies (Chart of the Day and Chart 6). The latter suggests that a further weakening of the JPY could reduce the power of a key growth engine for Germany, at a time when its recovery remains weak and the Eurozone is still in recession ñ for the same reasons, Germany, and as a result the Eurozone, would be affected negatively by a hard-landing scenario in China. Vamvakidis is looking ahead to the February 15 G-20 meeting, where he says the yen devaluation could be addressed by policymakers from countries like Germany. MORE: GEORGE SOROS: 'The Euro Is Now Here To Stay' &gt;
George Soros via YouTubeBillionaire investor George Soros is speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Soros gave a particularly pessimistic speech on the euro crisis last June, only a month before ECB President Mario Draghi stepped up and reassured markets that the ECB would "do whatever it takes to save the euro." Today, Soros told the audience that "the euro is now here to stay," according to Bloomberg. Soros said the immediate crisis is over but that there is no time for complacency, and that austerity is not what Europe needs right now. Furthermore, Soros reiterated that the causes of the euro crisis still haven't been solved and that the next year or two will be "very tense," as Germany will always take the minimum amount of action required to save the euro. RTE News editor Tony Connelly provided some more color via Twitter: Soros: a turbulent time ahead for 2013, first in exchange rates, then interest rates, then in political decisions #davos And as far as markets are concerned, Soros said the euro is likely to keep going up from here.
Now that President Obama has officially nominated Mary Jo White to head the SEC, it's time to find out what kind of Chairwoman she'll be. Wall Street, take note. To get the inside scoop on White's style, Business Insider contacted Patrick Cotter, an ex-colleague of the former U.S. Attorney. Cotter said White has ìa natural inclination to aggressively pursue the law,î and took the time to address Ms. Whiteís critics with his own experience working by her side. Cotter is currently a partner at Barnes &amp; Thornburg LLP,† and was an assistant U.S. attorney under Ms. White while she was U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York, which encompasses Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island.†† In his experience, Whiteís combination of hands-on leadership and managerial prowess makes her the perfect choice to lead the SEC. ìSheís not a bureaucrat with a law degree ñ sheís walked the walk,î Cotter says, ìSheís someone who gets personally involved in the direction of the office sheís running.î He expressed zero doubts about Mr. Whiteís ability to manage such a massive agency. As a U.S. attorney, she oversaw hundreds of lawyers and was in contact with the leadership of the FBI, ATF, DEA, and IRS on a daily basis. After serving on the prosecution side, White changed it up and defended former Bank of America CEO Kenneth Lewis against securities fraud, and helped Morgan Stanley vet former CEO John Mack in 2005. But Cotter doesn't see this as an example of ìthe infamous revolving door between federal service and major law firms,î† as Bill Singer of Forbes reported. ìTo suggest that somehow that if youíve been on one side you can never be on the other without somehow having tainted your integrity is, as I say, painfully ignorant,î Cotter declared, ìIf thatís meant to be a criticismÖI think itís perfectly baseless.î Whiteís experience on both sides of the aisle is actually an advantage. It means she has a broader perspective from which to analyze the impact of regulations or the enforcement of laws, Cotter added. ìI mean, it would be her natural inclination to aggressively pursue the law,î he explained, ìIf that means revisiting cases from the financial crisis, Iím sure thatís something that she would consider.î †That could make a few people on The Street nervous. Many thanks to Patrick Cotter for the interview. Read the full transcript below: BI: Can you describe your working relationship with Mary Jo White? PC: Mary Jo, at one point in her career, was the ñ first she was the chief assistant, then subsequently the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, which is Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island. And during part of her tenure, I was with the Strike Force on Organized Crime for the Eastern District, and was eventually an assistant U.S. Attorney under her. So, for a period of time, she was my boss and thatís how I came to know her. Subsequently, I left that office to do other things; she stayed to become the U.S. Attorney and then eventually transferred across the river to the Southern District. Our paths have crossed a number of times in the years since. So, we got to know each other when I worked for her and we have crossed paths a few times. I am not a close friend of Mary Joís; I never have been, in any sense. BI: Good to know. PC: But I did have the opportunity to work for her, and we have a lot of mutual friends ñ alumni, if you will ñ from the Eastern District. So I know I always hear about what sheís up to, and talk to people that work for her and with her. So thatís kind of the extent of our knowledge of each other. BI: A lot of people ñ and consumer protection agencies ñ are mentioning that very little is known about how Mary Jo White feels about new regulations like Dodd-Frank and the regulatory climate in general. Can you offer any insight to what we might expect from her on that front? PC: Iím afraid I cannot. I have not had occasion to discuss her views of Dodd-Frank or any of the new regulations or even the overall shifts in regulatory and prosecutorial views towards Wall Street since the economic collapse. I can only do this ñ and itís not any insight ñ itís just that she, for the last decade, has acted as a defense attorney, a white collar practitioner, consulting with and advising and representing individuals and corporations dealing with those regulations ñ thatís what I do ñ thatís what Iíve been doing for the past decade. So the only way I have any way of having an educated guess as to what her views are the views of myself and other white-collar practitioners from around the country and what our general view of those things are. I canít say that I can definitely attribute them to her, but I can say that many of us who have been in the same situation as her, we tend to have similar experiences, and those shape our views. BI: Could you comment on her litigation style, if youíve ever seen her in court? PC: By the time I met her, she was the first assistant, and then she was the U.S. attorney itself. First Assistants and U.S. Attorneys are the Generals of the army; theyíre not the combat soldiers. Now she has an excellent reputation as a litigator, but when I was working with her she wasnít in court litigating cases on any regular basis ñ she was the General on top. She would meet with people ñ including myself ñ and discuss a trial, or case strategy, or tactics, so I have knowledge of that, but I canít honestly say I ever sat and watched her in a courtroom. Not a lot of U.S. attorneys do that a lot. BI: Thatís understandable. How about her involvement in cases she oversaw? Was she a very hands-on manager, or did she prefer to delegate? PC: My perception is she was very personally involved, and had a very keen strategic mind, and tactical mind, in advising the assistants that worked for her. I think sheís very personally involved. If you run a large office like the Eastern or Southern District of New York, by necessity you have to delegate some things. You canít possibly oversee each case ñ itís just not humanly possible. But having said that, I think she certainly was someone who was more than willing to get personally involved when dealing with strategic and tactical questions about individual cases. I mean, sheís a real lawyer. Sheís not a bureaucrat with a law degree ñ sheís walked the walk. And that was always very clear from the meetings I was in with her and other things I saw her do with other people. She is a real litigator, and I would think that she would not be somebody ñ she certainly doesnít have that reputation in private practice and certainly didnít when she was running the prosecutorial offices I was in ñ sheís not up in her ivory tower. Sheís a real manager, as it were. So I would definitely say that sheís someone who gets personally involved in the direction of the office sheís running, and I would expect that would be true if she were appointed to the SEC. BI: So the flip side of that ñ if she were to be appointed, sheíd be in a similar situation before, having overseen 200 attorneys, but sheíd still be the head of a federal agency and from an administrative standpoint, how do you see her dealing with the bureaucracy? PC: I will say this ñ the SEC is obviously a very large organization, with offices all over the country. And even within the SEC, there are different divisions and branches and each of them have managers and people that have their particular assignments and responsibilities, so itís a much bigger animal, of course. But I would just point out that if youíre running the Southern or Eastern District of New York, youíre overseeing an office that oversees all federal law enforcement for millions and millions of people. So youíre dealing with very large organizations. When youíre the U.S. attorney, youíre not just overseeing your attorneys. Youíre also very intimately involved with all the investigative agencies ñ the FBI, ATF, DEA, IRS ñ I mean, you are interacting with their leadership on a daily basis. Plus, youíve got to answer to Main Justice, and that huge apparatus, all the different divisions, etc. So you are constantly, as a U.S attorney ñ particularly in a big, big district like the two sheís run ñ you are constantly interacting with enormous federal bureaucracies, and you are part of a huge federal bureaucracy, the Department of Justice. So she did that for two different districts over many years, and she did that successfully. Everybody, I think, will tell you that she was a very successful U.S. attorney. So thereís no question she knows how to maneuver and handle large federal bureaucratic issues. Sheís done it. I donít think anyone needs a crystal ball to figure that out. But the SEC is a different kind of animal in some ways. I mean there is a very prosecutorial aspect of it, also very regulatory. It is there to crack down on people who break the rules but itís also there to help people who want to and are trying to play by the rules. The securities laws in this country ñ everyone would agree ñ are very complex. And itís not always cut and dry. The SEC spends a lot of time ñ as someone whoís practiced with them ñ a lot of it is sort of saying ìJeez, we know your client is doing this, whatís that about?î Itís not that they necessarily think your guy is a bad guy, but they think that something theyíre doing may be dangerous or maybe theyíre not fulfilling all their obligations on reporting. Everybody today tends to look at the SEC and think, ëOh, why arenít you putting guys in jail?î Thereís a prosecutorial aspect of it, but a lot of it is trying to help people who are trying to make a living in the markets, and run their businesses, trying to help them do it the right way. So thatís a whole different kind of animal than a U.S. attorneyís office. So there would be some new challenges there for her, I think, in dealing with that kind of an organization. BI: One of the biggest criticisms or skeptical comments that people have made is that she has connections defending Kenneth Lewis, and she helped vet Mack for Morgan Stanley before he came in.† Itís almost has the appearance of a lobbyist situation, where she worked in public service and then cashed in when she crossed over to the private sector. Do you feel sheís in any way ëcompromisedí or has any deep conflicts of interest that would prevent her from serving in the necessary capacities? PC: Well, I frankly think people making those comments are either insincere in the comments or painfully uniformed about how the practice of law works, and should educate themselves. The reality is, our legal system requires people to be both working for the government to enforce laws and regulations, either criminally or civilly, and itís required that we have people on the other side who represent individuals and companies who are dealing with those rules and laws. To suggest that somehow that if youíve been on one side you can never be on the other without somehow having tainted your integrity is, as I say, painfully ignorant. I mean, itís just painfully ignorant. The system requires it; it has always been thus since the founding of the Republic. People work for the government, then they go into private practice, then they go back to working for the government, that is a constant. Mary Jo was in private practice before she was the U.S. Attorney, then she was the U.S. Attorney, then she went back to private practice. And now, if it turns out that sheís offered the job and if she chooses to take it, she will be going back into public service at what is no doubt a significant sacrifice for her own personal financial well-being. So, the suggestion that somehow because you were once a federal prosecutor and then you went into private practice that youíve somehow tainted yourself just betrays someone who either doesnít believe in the legal system of this country and the way itís set up, or doesnít understand it. All the best prosecutors ñ many of the best prosecutors ñ were defense attorneys at one point in their lives, as Mary Jo was. Many of the best defense attorneys were, in fact, prosecutors. Iíve been both. I was a defense attorney, then I became a prosecutor for the Department of Justice and U.S. Attorney, then I went back into private practice. I didnít change my morals at any point, and neither does anyone else. So I think if thatís meant to be a criticism, itís based on either someone whoís not being honest, or about what their real motives are, or itís someone who doesnít understand how the legal system works. I think itís perfectly baseless. What I would also say, and more importantly, is that if you want somebody who understands and is well equipped to deal with whatever legal situations come up in the securities industry, I think youíd be well served to choose somebody whoís been on both sides. In other words, theyíve been a law enforcement person, theyíve dealt with the federal bureaucracy and enforcing the law, and at the same time, theyíve also been in the private sector. Theyíve represented individuals and companies who have had to deal with it. That, frankly, is the definition of well-rounded, well-informed, well-trained, and well-qualified. Itís not the description of someone who is somehow corrupted. Frankly, the alternative is to ask people in their 20s to pick a side, which of course is a betrayal of our whole legal system, but you would ask them to pick a side and then the only people that would rise up would be lifetime government employees. Which is a prescription for having people who arenít as well-qualified as they should be. BI: That definitely wouldnít be Pollyanna, by any stretch. PC: Yeah! Itís a silly kind of view of the world. And itís not smart. I represent people before the SEC. I would much rather, in some senses, be up against some SEC attorney who had never been a defense attorney. They donít know all the stratagems and tactics I might employ, and therefore itís possible that Iíll have an advantage over them because they just donít have the experience. They havenít looked at it the way I have. And that could be an advantage to me, because I have been on their side. Not as an SEC attorney, but as a federal prosecutor, so Iíve looked at it the way theyíve looked at it. And thatís an advantage to me. That makes me better. That gives me an advantage in our negotiations, our litigation, in everything we do. So I think any clear-eyed thinking person would agree with that ñ youíre much better off if youíve looked at it from both sides and have experience on both sides. Youíre going to do a better job. Youíre not going to be fooled, youíre not going to miss a trick, youíre not going to forget about an aspect because youíve looked at it from both sides. And you have experience looking at it from both sides. I think, whatís a wonder to me, is so many people who reach high office have only been on one side. I think itís a deep disadvantage. So I think, actually, the fact that sheís been in private practice is a great qualification. It makes her more qualified than somebody who hasnít. BI: Thatís a very good point. I think the criticism mainly stems from the notion that injustices done during the financial crisis have not been resolved or addressed. While weíre on the subject, the statute of limitations on mortgage fraud, for example, would allow Mary Jo White to pursue or revisit cases from the financial crisis. Is that something that you could expect from her, if she were given the position and accepted it? PC: Well, I donít know if I could put it in those terms, thatís a little overly specific with all due respect, but hereís what I would say. I think that the selection of someone like Mary Jo would have to be perceived by the public and the Street, if you will, the market, as a message. A message that the SEC is going to perhaps, more aggressively than in the past ñ and thatís not to suggest they havenít been aggressive, because I disagree with some of the ëpopular wisdomí that they havenít been aggressive. I think they have; people donít want to admit it. But in any event, I think Mary Jo ñ the appointment of somebody who has such a strong record and experience as a prosecutor, would certainly send a message to the market that the SEC is now being led by someone who has absolutely proven themselves capable of being very aggressive in enforcing the law, either criminally or civilly. And I think thatís meaningful. I donít think thatís an accident. So I think that one would have to draw from that, that if the administration were to appoint her, thatís the message theyíd be sending and I think that would be the mandate she would probably have going forward. I mean, it would be her natural inclination to aggressively pursue the law. If that means revisiting cases from the financial crisis, Iím sure thatís something that she would consider. Youíre right, itís a 10 year statute of limitations for crimes involving any kind of bank fraud. Obviously all† the mortgage cases or derivative-based cases, almost all of them could be put into that basket if one tried. Youíd have to look at the facts, but Iím sure many, many, many cases would still be alive, in that sense. Now, would she do that or not? I havenít the faintest idea. She hasnít called me up and told me. I think that, you know, if you appoint someone who has the kind of prosecutorial experience Mary Jo has, I think youíre telling the world, ìYou know what, I couldíve appointed some bureaucrat, someone very, very good at dealing with large agencies, and personnel, and budgets, and all that sort of thing.î They couldíve done that, and there wouldnít have been anything wrong with it, but it sends a different message. And I think you appoint someone like Mary Jo because you want people to understand that this is going to be an aggressive agency, and Mary Jo enjoys a wonderful reputation amongst the bar and the judiciary. And sheís a very nice person, but itís not because sheís a very nice person. Itís because sheís really good at what she does, and sheís really smart. And I think thatís what the message would be if she were appointed, that they would be aggressive. I think reasonable people would understand that. BI: I agree. Thanks for your time and insights ñ this has been illuminating.
YouTube screengrabVery sad news. Gawker's Camille Dodero reports that Aleksey Vayner, the Yale University student who sent a video application to UBS called "Impossible Is Nothing" back in 2006 that went viral, is dead, according to a step-cousin in Florida. He was 29. Vayner's video resume, which was dubbed by the New York Times as the "R√©sum√© Mocked Around The World", featured the college student in a mock interview setting talking about success. It also showed footage of him lifting weights, playing tennis, skiing, dancing and karate chopping bricks.¬† Ivy Gate Blog was the first to report his passing, citing an unnamed spokeswoman from the New York City Medical Examiner.
Wikimedia CommonsEarlie we brought to you Bank of America's call that the "Great Rotation" from bonds into equities was taking place. In the note, analyst Michael Hartnett describes would could cause a bigger market melt-up from where we are right now. What could cause a ìmelt-upî? Retail inflows into equity markets have started to pick up (more inflows are expected to be reported in the weekly numbers) and individual investors are still lightly positioned in equities relative to history. Further, both the EPS and GDP ìbarsî are low in early 2013. The three-month suspension of the US debt ceiling renders DC uneventful in the near term. And it is too early to argue the policy is not working to stimulate growth. Q2 is crucial in this respect. An LBO boom would be a good fundamental reason for a re-rating of stock markets. The environment is ripe for a pick-up in deal flow, with Dell as the latest target of speculation. The global demand for yield has driven debt costs to ever- lower levels, and the cost of capital for buyout firms has fallen to some of the cheapest levels in history. Banks have also repaired their balance sheets and are once again in a position to provide deal financing. For BofA's whole note, see here &gt;
A recent Eurobarometer survey was conducted in Europe, and it asked participants for the biggest threat that their country faces. "34% of the respondents in Germany (DE) named public debt as one of the two main problems," writes Deutsche Bank's Stefan Vetter. "This is by far the highest number in Europe. A significant proportion of citizens who express their concern about the evolution of public debt can also be found in Austria (24%) and Belgium (23%)." What's surprising is that debt-laden countries like Spain (ES), Italy (IT), and Portugal (PT) were close to the bottom of that list. Vetter explains: However, the fact that in countries with high public debt levels relatively few respondents mentioned this as one of the main issues should not automatically be interpreted as disregard for the importance of sustainable public finances. The explanation is rather that the economic situation and the high unemployment rates in these countries provide much more cause for concern than in Germany. So, regardless of whether they believe high debt is the cause of a country's economic woes, the citizens are more likely to point to be more concerned about immediate and visible threats. From Deutsche Bank: Deutsche Bank
Shares of Netflix are ripping today after the video rental and streaming company posted a surprise profit in the fourth-quarter. The stock is trading up more than 37%. Hedge fund manager Whitney Tilson, who runs T2 Partners, is long Netflix. Back in October at the high-profile Value Investing Congress, he gave a big presentation on some value stocks that he likes. †In that presentation he touched upon Netflix.† We've included the excerpt in the slides that follow. †
In the latest Breakfast with Dave, Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg writes "the most dangerous thing anyone can do is extrapolate the most recent experience, as enduring as it may seem, into the future." People, he says, don't ever see an existing situation coming to an end.¬† Furthermore, in three - five years they will be talking about new issues and a new bear or bull market.¬† He calls this tendency to take an existing condition and "superimpose it on the future", the "magazine cover" syndrome. And to illustrate this he highlights magazine covers from recent bubbles and crises including the tech bubble and the Great Recession. First up, the front covers from 1996 - 2000 during the tech boom. "The 'road to rich' was paved with fiber optics. Sure thing," Rosenberg writes. Gluskin Sheff ¬† Next up, the 2000 - 2002 tech bust when it seemed like the bursting bubble would never end: Gluskin Sheff ¬† We saw it again with the 2003 - 2007 housing and credit surge: Gluskin Sheff ¬† Then there was the 2008 - 2009 Great Recession: Gluskin Sheff ¬† Finally, the European sovereign debt crisis: Gluskin Sheff Instead, Rosenberg says we should look beyond the headlines of today and focus on identifying opportunities in the future.
I‚Äôm just going to come out and say it, ok?¬† I miss the Great Recession already. I miss it for two reasons: first as an investor and second as a human. The Investment Side of the Great Recession As an investor, the Great Recession represented the good times, now past.[1] Recessions ‚Äì or at least their financial unfolding via changes in asset prices ‚Äì cause not only wealth destruction, but also wealth creation.¬† For investors[2] in particular, a recession is often necessary in order to deploy capital at attractive prices. Warren Buffett famously gets irritated about the lack of investment opportunities in his annual Berkshire Hathaway letters during boom times, like his 1999 letter[3] and 2007 letter,[4] because prices of public securities outpace intrinsic value.¬† Conversely, he gets very busy and active buying companies when prices drop and other investors flee.¬† Recessions for Buffett, as well as for many investors, represent the best time to accumulate wealth.¬† Which is why he famously says: ‚ÄúBe fearful when others are greedy, and be greedy when others are fearful.‚Äù Another famous value investor, Shelby Collum Davis,[5] said more pointedly: ‚ÄúYou make most of your money in a bear market.¬† You just don‚Äôt know it at the time.‚Äù If you believe Buffett and Davis, as I do, then you too will think wistfully of the Great Recession because, as an investor, the good times are in the past.¬† Now, with US equity indexes up over 100% from their March 2009 lows, investing consists of purchasing expensive assets and hoping they get more expensive.¬† Which has a lot more to do with gambling than it does with investing. The Human Side of the Great Recession Of course this may sound awfully callous from a human perspective, and I don‚Äôt mean to diminish the real human suffering of the Great Recession.¬† In fact, on the contrary, it‚Äôs the humanity that emerged during the Great Recession that I want to call attention to, as the part I‚Äôm going to miss the most. Remember when your 401K lost 5% of its value every month ‚Äì month after month after month ‚Äì between August 2008 and March 2009?¬† Remember that you just stopped regularly checking its value ‚Äì or any part of your supposed net worth ‚Äì by about December 2008, because the whole thing just became too painful to contemplate? At that moment, falling into the Great Recession, we all confronted, in our own way, the painful reality that our human worth had to be something other than our financial net worth.¬† Because otherwise we just became half of who we were. Remember when in the space of just a few short months either you ‚Äì or someone you knew well ‚Äì lost a job, a house, or a business? As awful as that was, our collective acknowledgment of suffering changed the way we acted on a daily basis.¬† For people relatively well off, the new austerity forced a kind of back-to-basics approach to living.¬† Luxury consumption plummeted, and staycations soared in popularity, if only out of solidarity with those who suffered even more. I personally lost money in the Great Recession.¬† But what turns out to be even more painful, as a fiduciary, is losing other people‚Äôs money.¬† I dreaded calling investors on the phone to report a loss, and I dreaded, worse yet, seeing them in person. ¬†To make it more painful for me, my investors, unfortunately, were often my friends and family. ¬†The thought of it kept me awake and tossing in bed in the 1-3am hours.¬† For a couple of years.¬† Not good times. Would you like to know what reduced me tears, however?¬† It was the investors who told me it was going to be ok, that they still believed in me, and that the lost money didn‚Äôt mean they valued me less as a person.¬† Even as I write this now, it gets a little dusty in the room when I think of that. There‚Äôs a human element that only reveals itself in the bad times. Laissez Les Bons Temps Rouler My sense is that sometime between Groundhog Day and Mardi Gras 2013, the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex will peak out at the nation‚Äôs Great Recession shadow, and officially declare the long Winter finally over. That declaration will signal it‚Äôs time for luxury living again and real vacations.¬† Masters of the Universe will know they can safely begin to channel their inner Patrick Bateman in public again. In that smooth shift from Recovery to laissez les bons temps rouler I‚Äôm certain we‚Äôll go back to checking our net worths in the mirror more often, and possibly our human worths less often. But I hope we‚Äôll hold on to the memory of what we had, and lost, and recovered, during the Great Recession. [1] I acknowledge I‚Äôm being colloquial, not academic, about what I mean by a recession generally or the Great Recession in particular.¬† I don‚Äôt mean an economist‚Äôs definition of recession, which would refer to changes in GDP.¬† I also don‚Äôt mean to quibble about an US equity ‚Äòbear market,‚Äô as it‚Äôs been a few years since that occurred.¬† What I really mean is a holistic sense that, with unemployment below 8% nationally and the general level of stocks approaching their 2007 highs, the national mood has swung away from Recession and toward Recovery and I‚Äôm confident soon enough we‚Äôll be in Boom Times. [2] By ‚Äúinvestor‚Äù I mean as distinct from ‚Äúgambler,‚Äù which is what most of us do when we purchase public securities. [3] Which I‚Äôve helpfully linked to here, and would call your attention in particular to page 16, in which he anticipates the bursting of the tech bubble and the bursting of the equity bull market in general. [4] Which is linked to here, and I‚Äôd call your attention to pages 18-20 in which Buffett tries to lower expectations for equity returns going forward. [5] Whose son and grandsons run this firm, Davis Advisors.
">Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. retail investors who have gone sour on Apple Inc after the drubbing the stock has been taking may want to think twice before trying to buy its main smart phone rival, Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, at least in American markets. Apple's market value dropped by about $50 billion late on Wednesday as disappointing results, due to weak holiday sales of its iPhone, sent its shares plummeting 10 percent. Samsung's success in taking market share with its cheaper smart phones is seen as a major reason for Apple's problems, making the South Korean company an obvious alternative for investors. Yet Samsung, with a market capitalization of $236 billion, isn't listed as an American Depositary Receipt (ADR) on major U.S. markets, though other foreign companies such as Toyota Motor Corp and Sony Corp are. Instead, an unofficial version of Samsung trades on the over-the-counter market, commonly referred to as the Pink Sheets, under the ticker. Opting for these unsponsored shares, which trade on what's formally called the Grey Market, means you get nearly all the traditional benefits of owning the South Korean-listed version of Samsung shares, including any dividend payments, though they might not give investors voting rights. But investors should be wary. Low trading volume and high bid/ask spreads might make it hard for an investor to sell a position quickly if something goes wrong. And it's just as hard to jump in when the news is good. An average of only 195 unsponsored Samsung shares have traded over the past five days, according to Thomson Reuters data, compared with an average of 271,053 locally listed Samsung shares on the South Korean market during the same period. The lack of liquidity could add costs such as higher brokerage fees and outdated price quotes when an investor wants to buy or sell. "You get no information during the day on how much trading there is, so when you put in an order to your broker you might get something quite different than what you were expecting," said Allan Nichols, an international telecom equity analyst at Morningstar who covers the company. Samsung, which didn't respond to requests for comment, is due to report its fourth-quarter results on January 25. Its shares have gained 24.2 percent in the last six months. The company isn't alone in its decision to stay away from official ADRs. As of September 30, there were 1,344 unsponsored ADRs trading in the United States, according to money management firm Cambiar Investors, compared with 909 unsponsored ADRs traded in 2009. The rise in unsponsored ADRs came after a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rule change in 2008 that allowed depository banks such as BNY Mellon and JP Morgan Chase to launch ADRs based on market demand without the consent of a company, according to Cambiar. Listing fees and SEC disclosure requirements have prompted major companies to bypass sponsored ADRS as well. Swiss food and beverage company Nestle SA, German automaker Daimler AG and British brewer SABMiller Plc are among global companies that trade on the Pink Sheets. Investors who purchase these shares in dollars still take on the same risk of currency fluctuations as owning foreign shares in the company's home market. Even so, there are reasons why small investors might take the risk and buy Samsung over-the-counter shares rather than go to the home market of an overseas company. Some brokerages require a minimum purchase of $5,000 or more to place trades on a foreign market and an investor also has to wait until that foreign market opens. Investors who want to take smaller positions could consider the over-the-counter shares, said John Wightkin, director of equity research applications at Charles Schwab. The cost to buy companies listed on the Pink Sheets tends to vary, based on an investor's account size and trading frequency. And investors would not be able to trade those shares on the South Korean market. Larger investors, meanwhile, might want to opt to buy foreign shares directly in the target company's home market because of the liquidity. While brokerage houses such as Schwab are expanding services that allow retail investors to trade international stocks directly in local markets, South Korea is typically not among the offerings. Instead, customers must place orders through brokers, meet minimum order sizes and pay additional fees that can include exchange fees, foreign currency fees and local tax withholding. Customers typically cannot trade on margin and must trade during foreign market hours as well. "If you have a big enough account that they care about you, then it's easier to go with a broker with access to foreign exchanges," said Nichols, the Morningstar analyst. Investors who opt for over-the-counter shares should use limit orders, rather than market orders, because of the bid/ask spreads, he said. Another, albeit watered-down, option for investors is an exchange-traded fund such as the $3.4 billion iShares MSCI South Korea Index fund, which has 21.5 percent of its assets invested in Samsung, according to Morningstar. Its next largest position is in Hyundai Motor Co, with 5.3 percent of assets. The fund, which charges 61 cents per $100 invested, has an average volume of 2 million shares traded and a bid/ask spread of 2.1 percent, according to Morningstar. (Editing by Lauren Young, Andre Grenon and Bernadette Baum) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Google FinanceMarkets have turned red. However, they're still near their 5-year highs. Earlier this morning, the S&amp;P 500 broke through 1,500 for the first time since the fall of 2007. One of the big drags in the market is Apple, which is accounts for a major component of the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq indices. Click Here For Updates &gt;
It's early in 2013 and Wall Street has already seen its first ugly round of layoffs from Morgan Stanley, so people have been really on edge about who's next. This is something people feel especially at bulge bracket firms like a JP Morgan or a Bank of America. The exception to that rule is Goldman Sachs.¬† That's probably why Bloomberg' TV's Erik Schatzker just asked Cohn, point blank ‚Äî has the bank brought down costs far enough? Cohn's answer might give someone at Goldman Sachs a slight shiver : I never know the answer to that... I've said this before and i' ll say it again: I've never had a day at Goldman Sachs where i thought the firm was perfectly sized. At the bottom of the market you feel too big, at the top you feel way to small, and in the middle you're trying to gauge not only what's happening today but also what's happening tomorrow. Based on where we are today we feel like we're in a pretty go position, but I can change my opinion on that tomorrow. He sounded really pleasant saying it, if that helps...
Earlier this morning, we learned that weekly initial jobless claims fell to a 5-year low of 330k. This was much lower than the 355k economists were expecting. So, is this reason to cheer? According to a research firm cited by the Wall Street Journal's Vincent Cignarella, this week's number may be skewed. ...a small San Francisco research firm suggests it has more to do with the fact that California, whose 38 million population gives it the biggest workforce in the nation, hasn‚Äôt filed its claims numbers for past two weeks. That meant the state‚Äôs bean counters had to come up with a guesstimate ‚Äî and by Southbay Research‚Äôs reckoning, they may have come up with too low a number. Cignarella reports that a Labor Department analyst confirmed that California and Virginia provided estimates for the latest report.¬† That same analyst noted the Labor Department had to make its own estimate for Hawaii after the state didn't provide data. Last October, a surprise drop in jobless claims had many people chattering about a data conspiracy.¬† At the time, a Labor Department analyst explained to Business Insider that the report may have excluded claims that weren't processed in time for the release.¬† The big state in question was California. But this doesn't mean that underestimation means those claims just disappear for good.¬† Rather, those claims should appear in a latter claims report.¬† In other words, if this week was underestimated, then last week's number should see a jump. Read more at WSJ.com.
An extraordinary statistic tweeted by Idealab CEO Bill Gross from a Davos session he is attending: "The 6 members of the Walmart family have as much combined wealth as the entire bottom 1/3 of the United States." #WEF Too bad Walmart doesn't pay its poor and lower-middle-class workers enough to lift them out of near-poverty. (The average Walmart associate wage is about $12 an hour. That's about $25,000 a year--close to the poverty line.) (And, no, I'm not a "Marxist." But I do think that one of the ways to fix our crappy economy is to persuade companies to pay people more. Walmart's associates are dedicating their lives to the company. And Walmart a mind-bogglingly successful and excellent company, barely pays them enough to lift them out of poverty.)
Mary Jo White, centerPresident†Obama will announce two new federal appointments today that are designed to send a signal to the financial industry that they aren't getting a free pass from Washington anymore. Obama will nominate former U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White to chair the Securities and Exchange Commission, which†would make her the first former prosecutor†to head the SEC in its 79-year history. White used to run the New York U.S. Attorney's office for the Justice Department (the first woman to do so), and despite a record of high-profile "hard crime" convictionsólike mobster John Gotti and the 1993 World Trade Center bombersóshe actually†specialized†in white collar crime.†White was one of the attorneys who†indicted Marc Rich†on tax evasion, before he was infamously pardoned by Bill Clinton on his last day in office.†She currently runs the†litigation†department†at the high-powered law firm of Debevoise &amp; Plimpton, which has put her on the same side of some Wall Street firms. The President's other move is†actually†a re-nomination, but one that is likely to ruffle some more feathers in Congress. Obama is re-appointing Richard Cordray to run the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Cordray has already had the job for a year, but only†because of a recess appointment†made after†the†Senate blocked his official nomination. The Senate has never confirmed a†permanent†director of the CFPB. Corday is also a former prosecutor. By appointing two lawyers to these key posts, the White House hopes to begin a new era of stricter enforcement of the finanical industry, relying on people who (by appearances at least) are lot less chummy with Wall Street than the ex-bankers and economists they are used to dealing with in the†government. Most Republicans still†find the very idea of†the†CFPB offensive, but perhaps Obama is hoping for a slightly more favorable Senate for Cordray's hearing this time around. (Especially if filibuster reform actually happens.) Financial regulation has been one area that Republicans have pushed back the hardest on, but now that his second term is in full swing, the President seems bolder than ever. Given all the other fights on their plate right now, who knows how hard the GOP is willing or able to fight back? President Obama will formally announce both†nominations†during White House ceremony this afternoon.
In the span of 20 minutes, Nouriel Roubini has tweeted three times that he's at #1 on the Davos Twitter board. I am #1 in the #wef Twitter Board in @davos twitter.com/Nouriel/statusÖ #WEF Twitter Board twitter.com/Nouriel/statusÖ #wef Twitter Board. Yours truly is #1 in Most Active rank and #2 in Most Retweets rank twitter.com/Nouriel/statusÖ
Taro Aso, Japan's Finance Minister who has a serious problem with foot-in-mouth disease says†Let Elderly People 'Hurry Up and Die' Taro Aso said on Monday that the elderly should be allowed to "hurry up and die" to relieve pressure on the state to pay for their medical care. Heaven forbid if you are forced to live on when you want to die. I would wake up feeling increasingly bad knowing that [treatment] was all being paid for by the government," he said during a meeting of the national council on social security reforms. "The problem won't be solved unless you let them hurry up and die." Aso's comments are likely to cause offense in Japan, where almost a quarter of the 128 million population is aged over 60. The proportion is forecast to rise to 40% over the next 50 years.To compound the insult, he referred to elderly patients who are no longer able to feed themselves as "tube people". The health and welfare ministry, he added, was "well aware that it costs several tens of millions of yen" a month to treat a single patient in the final stages of life.In 2008, while serving as prime minister, he described "doddering" pensioners as tax burdens who should take better care of their health.In 2001, he said he wanted Japan to become the kind of successful country in which "the richest Jews would want to live".He once likened an opposition party to the Nazis, praised Japan's colonial rule in Taiwan and, as foreign minister, told US diplomats they would never be trusted in Middle East peace negotiations because they have "blue eyes and blond hair". Shades of Dr. KevorkianJudging from the insensitive nature of comments on health issues on top of all his previous gaffes, Aso is clearly unfit for office.However, a couple things he stated make perfect sense. For example "Heaven forbid if you are forced to live on when you want to die."That is the way I personally feel as well. It brings to mind†Dr. Jack Kevorkian Jacob "Jack" Kevorkian commonly known as "Dr. Death", was an American pathologist, euthanasia activist, painter, author, composer and instrumentalist. He is best known for publicly championing a terminal patient's right to die via physician-assisted suicide; he claimed to have assisted at least 130 patients to that end. He famously said, "dying is not a crime". In 1999, Kevorkian was arrested and tried for his direct role in a case of voluntary euthanasia. He was convicted of second-degree murder and served eight years of a 10-to-25-year prison sentence. He was released on parole on June 1, 2007, on condition he would not offer suicide advice to any other person. Dr. Jack Kevorkian's "60 Minutes" InterviewPlease consider†Dr. Jack Kevorkian's "60 Minutes" Interviewwhich contains a video of Dr. K. himself injecting a patient who suffered from Lou Gehrig's disease, with a dose of lethal drugs. Of all the interviews he conducted for "60 Minutes," Mike Wallace often said none had a greater impact than this one. Dr. Jack Kevorkian had long been a public advocate of assisted suicide for the terminally ill. From 1990 to 1998, he claimed to have helped end the lives of some 130 willing subjects. In September of 1998, Dr. Jack Kevorkian videotaped himself injecting Thomas Youk, who suffered from Lou Gehrig's disease, with a dose of lethal drugs.  Whose Decision Is It? To me this is a decision best left between an individual and a doctor, or an individual (and their family), and a doctor. I have signed papers saying I do not want to be artificially kept alive in certain situations.When my mother died of cancer, my father was asked by the doctor "do you want us to try and revive her?" I faced a similar setup myself, when my wife Joanne died.Terri Schiavo CaseLet's not forget the†Terri Schiavo Case. By any practical measure, Terri Schiavo was dead. She had no functioning brain. Yet it took a 7 year battle for her husband to get the right to remove her feeding tube.George Bush signed legislation to keep her alive. in 2003 Florida Governor Jed Bush signed "Terri's Law" forcing the state to keep a dead woman breathing against the wishes of her husband.Many of the statements by Taro Aso are of a different nature but some reflect attitudes regarding interference by government that we have seen in the US.What About CostsFinally, there is an issue with costs. Even if someone wants to be kept alive, what are the bounds on costs? Does it make sense to spend millions of dollars to keep someone alive for another year?At what point do we say "you get food, comfort care, and pain relievers" but that's it?I do not have a precise answer but I can precisely say we need to have a serious discussion on the topic.Mike "Mish" Shedlockhttp://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com"Wine Country" Economic Conference Hosted By MishI am hosting an economic conference in April, in Sonoma, California. Please consider attending.
www.cbsnews.comIn 2008, "Oracle of Omaha" Warren Buffett and some hedge fund guys made a wager that's been dubbed the "Million-Dollar Bet."† In sum, Buffett's wager against the hedge funders is that over a period of ten years hedge fund fund-of-funds could not beat the S&amp;P index.† For the bet, five fund-of-funds (which haven't been named publicly) picked by†ProtÈgÈ are competing against†Vanguard's Admiral shares, the S&amp;P index fund Buffett is backing. It's been five years since that bet was made and we're currently at the half-way mark. †According to Fortune's Carol Loomis Buffett is winning.† From Fortune:† So now the tortoise, after crawling four more years, indeed leads. At the five-year mark, the Vanguard index fund backed by Buffett is up by 8.69%. The five funds of funds picked by ProtÈgÈ Partners to carry its flag in the race are up, on the average, onlyó"gulp," says ProtÈgÈ partner Ted Seidesó0.13%. Of course, we still have five more years to see how this all plays out. What's more is whoever wins the bet will have a $1 million, or possibly more, donated to the charity of their choice. †
UPDATE: The Kansas City Fed's monthly manufacturing survey is out. Click here to refresh for updates &gt; The headline number fell to -2 from last month's upwardly-revised reading of -1, defying consensus expectations of a rise into positive territory. Below is a breakdown of the sub-components of the index (click to enlarge): Kansas City Fed Below are comments from respondents to the survey on the state of the economy: ‚ÄúEconomic uncertainty has made our customers reluctant to place orders more than a month in advance and it appears most are cutting their inventory on hand which further depresses orders.‚Äù ‚ÄúSince Congress continues to delay making firm decisions we are less optimistic about our ability to expand in Q1 and Q2. We are again delaying decisions until government policy is more certain.‚Äù ‚ÄúMany of our end users are not committing to contracts until they see Congress acting on spending and debt limit issues.‚Äù ‚ÄúLack of commitment to spending cuts has seriously damaged confidence in our customer base.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe health care act is still a large uncertainty for our customers.‚Äù ‚ÄúSome orders were delayed. It appears that the capital budgets that were put on hold are starting to be released.‚Äù ‚ÄúU.S. pipeline projects will suffer in 2013, which will affect us negatively.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe ongoing fiscal problems and uncertainty have a negative impact on our outlook for the military portion or our business.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe fiscal cliff was a short term issue ‚Äì we make decisions looking at long term trends. It may have slowed some of our sales on a short term basis, but it was probably just delaying sales that will be made later.‚Äù ‚ÄúFiscal issues are not truly resolved and we remain cautious relative to all hiring, investment, and other business expansion.‚Äù Click here for the full release &gt; ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from the release of the Kansas City Fed's monthly manufacturing survey, due out at 11 AM ET. Economists expect the index to rise to 1 after a -2 reading last month. Any number above 0 indicates improving manufacturing conditions. The release will be interesting because we've seen some really ugly prints from other regional manufacturing indices this month. However, today the flash US PMI index, published by Markit, soared to 56.1 from last month's 54.0 reading, whereas economists expected it to fall to 53.0. We will have the release LIVE at 11 AM ET.¬†Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
Jay Tamboli / FlickrWhen the U.S. got downgraded by S&amp;P in 2011, stocks tumbled.¬† But many were surprised to see Treasury yields fall. And the risk of another downgrade by the credit ratings agencies is on the table. For the most part, there's no clear consensus on how the markets would react to another downgrade. Some believe the markets have already priced in the possibility.¬† Some believe that the credit rating agencies have lost credibility.¬† Some think that we could see volatility. We asked six top economists what would happen if the U.S. got downgraded again.
JCPenney is allegedly pushing some manufacturers to come up with higher suggested retail markups for their clothing so that the retailer can list its own prices lower, according to†James Covert at The New York Post. "Fake prices are coming back at JCPenney," wrote Covert. "And this time theyíll be more fake than ever." According to The Post's sources, JCPenney wants to put up signs that show the "sometimes made-up" suggested retail prices.†However, the clothing itself would be tagged with JCPenney's own retail prices, which will be set lower. ìThey want to have a table of sweaters with a sign saying ëregular price, $30,í and the price tag will be $22,íî a source explained to The Post. CEO†Ron Johnson†has been tweaking the department store's pricing strategy since his†initial bid to kill coupons and sales failed. In its marketing, JCPenney has been constantly touting "fair and square" pricing since Johnson took the helm, promising to make things simple for customers. "Arenít you now going back to fooling the customer the way you said you wouldnít?î an exec at one supplier told The Post. ìAre we now saying, ëNever underestimate the stupidity of the American consumer?íî The Post also reported that JCPenney is demanding the vendors put the prices in writing so that they have documentation to back up the pricing claims. We've reached out to JCPenney for comment and will update this post if we get a response. Work for JCPenney? Shoot me an email at kbhasin@businessinsider.com.
US Dept of Labor / FlickrTim Geithner has given another "exit interview" as he prepares to leave Treasury. This time it's with Liaqat Ahamed at TNR. Ahamed is the perfect interviewer, given his expertise in The Great Depression, and understanding the grave policy blunders that worsened that crisis. Ahamed's book Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World is a must-read today. In the interview, Geithner pretty much nails everything. Here are three big lessons. And I think what we have all learned from history, mostly from mistakes that we and others have made is that confronted with that, you need to apply a lot of force, with a lot of speed across the full spectrum of the policy tools we have. Which means monetary policy has to be very aggressive. You need to make sure that fiscal policies are very supportive of growth so you‚Äôre compensating for the huge collapse in private sector demand. And you need to be incredibly aggressive in making sure that you recapitalize the financial system. If you do those things incrementally, where you do one but not all three, then you‚Äôll be left with much more damage. You have to do all of them. None of them is effective individually. I think there‚Äôs very, very substantial room to do more on fiscal policy that would be good for nurturing long-term growth. That capacity would be greater if it was accompanied by some credible long-term plan to bring down future deficits. But generally the world views the American political system as still better positioned to deal with our challenges than any other major economy, and that‚Äôs one reason why we can borrow at very low rates. I think that the best economic strategy for the country would be to combine a set of very powerful near-term investments in infrastructure and elsewhere that would help support demand with long-term fiscal reforms that would restore sustainability. I think the limits we face right now are only political, not economic, not fiscal. ...I think there‚Äôs something about human beings, and something about financial systems, where people tend to give less weight to the risk of an extreme event. So after a long period of relative stability, like we had in the U.S. and the world economy in the decade before this, that leads people to take on more risk than they should, borrow more than they should, and that‚Äôs what creates the vulnerability to crisis.
The stock, which has been a hedge fund favorite for quite some time, was last down more than 11.6% today.¬† Here's a rundown of the ten hedge funds with the largest stake in Apple, according to 13F data for the third quarter ended 9/30/2012 compiled by Bloomberg.¬† In his Q4 letter to investors yesterday, Einhorn wrote how their "bruised" Apple stake hurt their fourth quarter performance. ¬†The fund was down 4.9% in Q4. Einhorn also said that with Apple shares sliding in fourth quarter they erased their gains from the third quarter. ¬†However, he said he used that opportunity to repurchase shares they sold in the third quarter. ¬† Also, as a reminder, hedge funds only have to disclose their long holdings in 13F filings with the SEC. ¬†Fourth quarter 13Fs will be out in mid-February.
James Cridland / FlickrThe S&amp;P 500 just passed 1,500 for the first time since 2007. The index isn't too far from its all-time high of 1,565, which it also high on October 9, 2007. Markets are defying gravity even as Apple is down 10 percent after its disappointing earnings announcement. In other big milestones, initial jobless claims fell to 330k last week.¬† This is the lowest reading since January 2008. Economists were looking for a reading of 355k. Click Here For Updates &gt; SEE MORE: The 22 Most Controversial Stocks In The World &gt;
flickr / Doug WertmanThe big theme of 2013 ‚Äì according to investment strategists at shops across Wall Street ‚Äì will be the "Great Rotation," a massive move out of bonds and into stocks. Economic growth in the U.S. is expected to accelerate, facilitating the shift. Hedge fund manager Ray Dalio agrees ‚Äì in an interview with CNBC this morning, he characterized 2013 as a transition year in which¬†large amounts of cash that have been tied up in bank accounts or hidden under mattresses will move into equities and other risk assets. Sure enough, we've seen historic fund flows into equity funds already in 2013 ‚Äì but surprisingly, bond funds haven't seen big outflows. For a while now, BofA Merrill Lynch Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett has been out in front of the rest touting the "Great Rotation" theme for 2013 ‚Äì and he says it's already begun. Even though the public data don't show investors shifting out of bonds and into stocks yet, Hartnett says BofA's data on client position does show exactly that. In a new note, Hartnett writes (emphasis added): The past seven years have seen a Great Divergence in terms of fund flows. Investors have poured $800bn into bond funds and redeemed $600bn from long- only equity funds. But recent data show the first genuine signs of equity-belief in years. The past 13 days have seen $35 billion come back into equity funds ($19 billion of which is via long-only). And while the industry flow data does not show ‚Äúrotation‚Äù out of bonds, our private client data does. The structural long position in fixed income is simply threatened by low expected returns thanks to low rates and the mathematical reality that a small rise in rates can cause total return losses in portfolios. Table 1 shows that negative returns would occur if the 30-year Treasury yield rose from 3.03% to above 3.26% anytime in the next 12 months (and note the same yield was 4.53% just 3-years ago). However, there are still two big risks to an "orderly" rotation out of bonds and into stocks this year, in Hartnett's view. He says the possibilities of either a "1994 scenario" or a "1987 scenario" jeopardize a smooth transition: 1994  The current level of US jobless claims (335K) is the lowest since Jan 2008, when the unemployment rate was just 5.0%. If the global economy and corporate animal spirits revive sufficiently to cause an upward surprise to US payroll numbers in coming months, say numbers in excess of 300K, then a repeat of the 1994 ‚Äúbond shock‚Äù is likely. In recent months we‚Äôve drawn a number of comparisons to market returns in 2012 and 1993, the last year banks assumed major global leadership. In 1994 the combination of stronger-than-expected payroll, a tighter Fed, a 200bps back-up in yields led to a big pause in the nascent equity bull market and a savage reversal of fortune in leveraged areas of the fixed income markets (e.g. Orange County &amp; Mexico). Investors banking on economic recovery should therefore be reducing longs positions in High Yield and EM debt.  1987  In contrast, in 1987, rising risk appetites caused equity prices to drag bond yields higher. At the same time, policy tensions over currency valuations between Germany and the US also put upward pressure on bond yields, as well as gold prices. Ultimately the combination of policy risks, rising gold and bond yields helped precipitate the October crash in equity markets. A repeat of 1987 is a low probability event in 2013. But it is also clear that risk appetite is on the rise, many countries are trying to devalue their way to growth, risking a currency war, and should gold start to respond favorably to this backdrop, we would certainly worry that a major risk correction is imminent. So, what does this mean for investors? Hartnett writes that given the recent surge in investor sentiment (click here for eight indicators that illustrate this pretty clearly), a correction in the stock market in the next month or so would be a good thing. However, if we don't get a correction in the next month or so. Here's why, according to Hartnett: Retail inflows into equity markets have started to pick up (more inflows are expected to be reported in the weekly numbers) and individual investors are still lightly positioned in equities relative to history. Further, both the EPS and GDP ‚Äúbars‚Äù are low in early 2013. The three-month suspension of the US debt ceiling renders DC uneventful in the near term. And it is too early to argue the policy is not working to stimulate growth. Q2 is crucial in this respect.¬† If all of these factors come together to prevent a pullback in stocks this winter, Hartnett worries that "a combo of excess risk positioning and liquidity withdrawal could lead to a bigger correction in Spring." MORE:¬†What Happened To Markets The Last 15 Times The Fed Tightened... &gt;
The Sinocism newsletter is compiled by Bill Bishop, and republished here with permission.¬†Be Informed About China.¬†The Sinocism China Newsletter.¬†Free. ABC News continues with its investigation of China stock frauds (better late than never...) and in the latest installment looks at Rodman &amp; Renshaw, once a leading shoveler to US markets of Chinese... companies... whose chairman was a prominent American General and aspiring presidential candidate. In China Fraud Accusations: Wesley Clark's Ex-Firm Faces Questions ABC News reports that: Retired U.S. Army General and former presidential contender Wesley K. Clark was the chairman and public face of a Wall Street investment firm that rode a wave of interest in Chinese stock, and then plunged on reports that much of the profit was hype and many of the companies were outright frauds.Now the China deals Clark helped promote at lavish parties are among those facing scrutiny from the Securities and Exchange Commission as they try and account for the billions of dollars lost in dozens of suspicious stock offerings, which some officials believe represent collectively one of the largest financial scams since Bernie Madoff. Authorities told ABC News that firms serving as middle men who helped promote the Chinese companies are now in the crosshairs...One of the firms that pushed most aggressively for investment in Chinese companies was Rodman &amp; Renshaw, a boutique operation based in New York and chaired by Clark, the retired four star general and war hero who mounted a bid for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2004. Clark became chairman of the investment firm in 2009, just as it was emerging as a central player in the China investment wave. He left the firm in mid-2012, and declined repeated requests from ABC News to discuss his tenure there...The general did not run day-to-day activities at the firm, instead chairing board meetings and lending his star power during extravagant annual conferences, where investors were invited to hear presentations from dozens of Chinese companies trying to attract financing as they joined American stock exchanges. The conferences were luxurious affairs held at the Waldorf in New York and Le Royal Meridien Hotel in Shanghai. Henry Kissinger spoke at one, former Sen. Chris Dodd, D.-Conn., at another. Diana Ross performed, as did En Vogue. Another American with ties to a sketchy China firm has cut what sounds like a wrist-slapping deal with the US government. As Bloomberg reports in¬† Ex-Xinhua Finance CEO Bush Signs Plea Deal: Xinhua Finance Ltd.‚Äôs former chief executive officer, accused of joining a $50 million insider- trading scheme, signed a plea agreement with U.S. prosecutors resulting in a single charge of conspiring to obstruct the Internal Revenue Service.The filing of a criminal information in a pending case signals the defendants have reached a resolution with the government and that remaining counts of an indictment will be dismissed, said Bernie Grimm, a criminal defense lawyer in Washington who isn‚Äôt involved in the case.Under the indictment all three defendants faced four charges of mail fraud, each of which carried a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison. When I was at MarketWatch we had a deal with Xinhua Finance, I met Fredy Bush a few times, a former colleague was a director of her company and I bought shares after the IPO and lost money. Shows what I know...There have been an inordinate number of China stock frauds. Media coverage has focused more on the Chinese participants while mostly ignoring the foreign enabling ecosystem that allowed this garbage to steal money from overseas investors. The SEC and ABC seem to have finally have discovered that these sleazy Westerners are also a target rich environment.From what I am hearing, some interesting Chinese reporting on Caterpillar's ERA fraud is forthcoming. Due diligence standards for M&amp;A in China need to be upgraded.Today's links:THE ESSENTIAL EIGHTChina Manufacturing Expands at Fastest Pace in Two Years - Bloomberg - China‚Äôs manufacturing is expanding at the fastest rate in two years, according to a private survey of companies, bolstering prospects that economic growth will accelerate for a second straight quarter. The preliminary reading of a Purchasing Managers‚Äô Index was 51.9 in January, according to a statement from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today. That compares with the 51.5 final reading for December and the 51.7 median estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.Apple Discloses China Revenues - Business Insider sounds good, but sequential growth way below that of other geographies// Greater China (which includes Taiwan and Hong Kong) revenues were $6.83 billion, up from $5.43 billion in the previous quarter and $4.08 billion a year ago. That represents growth of $26 percent and 67 percent, respectively.Apple in China: still on a tear | beyondbrics But Coolpad‚Äôs surge in sales growth does not come without costs. Gross profit margin at China Wireless was 12 per cent in the six months to end of June 2012, down from 16.8 per cent from the period the year before. This is less than half of the 38.6 per cent in gross profit margin reported by Apple for Q1. //respectable for a Chinese firm, a big mistake to assume that Coolpad will go away because it has razor thin margins...//The numbers are all the more impressive given that China Mobile, the country‚Äôs biggest mobile operator, doesn‚Äôt distribute iPhones.The introduction of a new Apple financing scheme in China last week could be one way for the iPhone maker to recapture market share without going down the low-end route. But this remains to be seen. But few would argue that Apple is doing alright in China.// but people expect a lot more than "alright", and Apple no longer has the hot phone. Samsung taking share at top, Apple has completely missed the middle market, which it has in many other markets with its subsidized carrier deals. For whatever reason Apple appears to have thought it has leverage with China Mobile. Whatever leverage it had, or thought it had, it no longer does as it is not selling the most desired phone in China anymore...Âåó‰∫¨‚ÄúÂÖ¨Âä°ÂëòÊàø‚ÄùÁ•ûÁßòÂçñÂÆ∂ÔºöÈöèË∫´Â∏¶ÊàøÊú¨ ÂçàÂ§úÁ≠æÂêàÂêå|Âåó‰∫¨ÂÆòÂëòÊäõÊàø|Ë¥¢‰∫ßÂÖ¨Á§∫|‰ΩèÊàøËÅîÁΩë_21‰∏ñÁ∫™ÁΩë- nice anecdotes about officials selling property in face of corruption crackdown, expect to see repeated in some bear PPTs and posts..still dont think big enough surge in sales to hit the market..could be wrong, but so far prices up, reporting on it has not noted any numbers that would have material impact on the real estate markets// ÊçÆ21‰∏ñÁ∫™ÁΩë‰∫ÜËß£ÔºåËøëÊù•Âú®ÁΩë‰∏äÂá∫Áé∞ÁöÑËØ∏Â§öÊäõÂîÆÊîøÂ∫úËµÑÊ∫êÊàøÁöÑ‰ø°ÊÅØÊòØÁúüÂÆûÁöÑ„ÄÇËøô‰∫õÊäõÂîÆÁöÑÊàøÊ∫êÊâÄÂú®Á§æÂå∫Â§ßÈÉΩÊòØÂë®ËæπËÆæÊñΩÈÖçÁΩÆ‰ºòË∂äÔºå‰πãÂâçÂá∫ÂîÆÁîöËá≥Âá∫ÁßüÁöÑÊÉÖÂÜµÈÉΩÁîöÂ∞ë„ÄÇÂõ†Ê≠§ÔºåËøô‰∫õÊàøÊ∫ê‰∏ÄÊó¶Êé®ÂêëÂ∏ÇÂú∫ÔºåÁ´ãÂàªÂê∏Âºï‰∫Ü‰∏çÂ∞ëÊ∂àË¥πËÄÖÁöÑÂÖ≥Ê≥®„ÄÇ Investors in Fraudulent Wealth Management Plan Repaid - Caixin - Investors who bought into a fraudulent wealth management plan got their money back without interest. About 80 investors have received payments equal to their principal investment, several investors said. They agreed not to seek any interest. The agreement was reached at a meeting on January 9 at Huaxia Bank's Jiading branch in suburban Shanghai, where the wealth product was sold. The deal means that no bank wealth product has ever been allowed to fail in China.Urban Platforms in a Policy Pressure Cooker - Caixin- Game rules are changing for urban China's quasi-market financing platforms that have been fueling local government infrastructure projects ever since the global financial crisis. And the game players ‚Äì mainly government officials in cities, townships and districts for whom the platforms have been convenient cash cows ‚Äì are getting nervous. Officials digesting the rules released December 24 are looking for new ways to service existing platform debt, estimated by the central government at 10.7 trillion yuan nationwide as of late 2010. They also need financing for highways, subways, tourist venues and other construction projects planned or under way. //poor local officials, squeezed from every side...and now much harder to run away...China to Cap Electricity Growth at 8 Percent Through 2015 - Bloomberg - In an outline of energy-development goals under the country‚Äôs 12th five-year plan, China plans to reduce energy consumption by 16 percent annually and carbon emissions by 17 percent, as measured per unit of gross domestic product, from 2010 to 2015, according to a statement today on the website of China‚Äôs State Council, China‚Äôs cabinet. The plan, which anticipates a near doubling of consumer power consumption per capita, calls for China to get 11.4 percent of its electricity from non-fossil sources by 2015, up from 8.6 percent in 2010, while reducing coal‚Äôs share of generating capacity from 68 percent in 2010 to less than 65 percent.Official Newspaper Blames Local Govts for Overcapacity Which Threats Chinese Economy-Caijing - A Chinese ruling party's mouthpiece newspaper has blamed local governments for the country's excess capacity problem which has long plagued the world's second-biggest economy, and warned that the persistent obstinacy may lead to a systematically economic collapse in the country without control. The People's Daily said in a commentary published Wednesday that overcapacity now extends to emerging industries, and is becoming an increasingly big obstacle to the economy's recovery.SOEs dominate Beijing's commercial property market WantChinaTimes.com State-owned and public real estate firms dominated the 2012 list of Beijing's top 10 property developers in terms of the transaction values, while only two private enterprises entered the list, figures from the Beijing Real Estate Trade Management website reveal. The numbers show that state-run property companies, including Beijing Urban Construction Group, Zhonghai Construction Group, China Railway Construction Corp, Poly Property Group and Beijing Capital Development, occupied the most most of the top 10. Just two private companies, Longfor Properties and Soho China made the list; in 2011 three did.
World Economic Forum China and Japan appear to be on the verge of a shooting war over some tiny islands that are the subject of a territorial dispute. Tension between these countries is escalating irrespective of the islands, and it is a matter of immense national concern for the United States and the rest of the world. Yesterday in Davos, I sat down with Ian Bremmer, the president of geopolitical consulting firm Eurasia Group, to get his take on the situation. ¬† Blodget: What‚Äôs going to happen with China and Japan? Bremmer: The big problem is that the relationship, the balance of power between these two countries, has changed and is changing dramatically‚Äîand really, very strongly not in Japan‚Äôs favor. From a security perspective, a political perspective, an economic perspective, this is just creating big, big problems for the Japanese. And now they finally have a leader that has a good shot at staying around for a while. He has a more‚Äînot just nationalist inclination‚Äîbut a more pro-democracy inclination. He was prime minister last time and people said he was more pragmatic, but if you met with him, he talked about wanting to create a league of democracies in Asia [and] orienting much more towards India and Australia and New Zealand. He was Mr. Pivot before pivoting was fashionable, right? Now he comes into a context where the U.S. is already acting in a way that‚Äôs concerned about a Chinese challenge in the region. It‚Äôs the single biggest strategic effort that the Obama administration has engaged in, from a foreign policy perspective. And you have to think that the Chinese are going to see all this as provocative. The real question is, to what extent is the Chinese government prepared to respond in an escalatory fashion? Is this Russia vs. Georgia? A little bit, right. Are you poking the bear? And I don‚Äôt know the answer to that, but I suspect it‚Äôs not good. A couple of quick points on that: First of all, unlike Hu Jintao who really didn‚Äôt have control over the military, Xi Jinping does. He has much more direct consolidation of these, sort-of standing committees around him. He‚Äôs a much stronger figure, much stronger personality, has much more loyalty from the military. So, if he wants to escalate, he can feel much more comfortable and confident that he can ratchet up and ratchet back without it getting out of control. That‚Äôs dangerous for Japan. Also if you look at the way the Chinese have engaged before on this issue: buzzing the territories with planes right before the elections, almost as if they didn‚Äôt want [Shinzo] Abe in, [but] they certainly didn‚Äôt mind Abe in. Anti-Japanese nationalism is a fairly easy play for the Chinese to engage in that allows them to defuse some of what would otherwise be discontent with things that would be more problematic for the Chinese government. One final point on this: when you look at China vs. Japan, compared to all of the other territories in the region ‚Äî you talk about East China Sea, South China Sea ‚Äî with all those countries in the South China Sea, the Chinese themselves are a much larger economy than any of those countries, but also the Chinese have very large diaspora communities that dominate the economies of those countries. They are the key business people, and over time, that makes the Chinese much more comfortable. They know what‚Äôs going on inside the country, it creates more transparency. But also it means that over time the Chinese really feel like if they just build the economic relationship, the security will come. They are going to get the political influence, they‚Äôre going to get the security influence, bilaterally. All they can do is make sure the U.S. isn‚Äôt able to create strong multilateral ties in the region. With Japan that‚Äôs not true. There are no Chinese in Japan that have significant business influence. It‚Äôs very opaque to them the way the system actually works. Japan‚Äôs much bigger, so if you‚Äôre China, [you are] thinking about how you‚Äôre going to tip the balance over time in your direction. When you become the world‚Äôs largest economy, as you‚Äôre building out your military, your problem is Japan. The country that you‚Äôre prepared to be more aggressive towards ‚Äî call it assertive now ‚Äî but over time perhaps aggressive is Japan. And all of these things, all of these structural factors, really worry me. There‚Äôs no question that the economic ties are still important between these two countries. There‚Äôs no question that the United States certainly does not want to see conflict between their allies Japan, and the Chinese. But how much effort the U.S. will be able to put into stopping it and given how tied the Americans are to the Japanese; it's not clear to me this isn‚Äôt going to get worse. If I had to bet right now, I think there is [going to be] a significant run of escalation in 2013. And I think by far, China-Japan is the most significant geopolitical tension on the map, in terms of direct bilateral conflict in the coming years. Blodget: Do you think they‚Äôll go to war? Bremmer: I think they are at war. I think that cyberwarfare against Japanese banks has gone up greatly. I think you look at the anti-Japanese demonstrations that were clearly stimulated by the Chinese government, and the impact that‚Äôs had directly on Japan investment in China. Warfare is conducted by other means today. And we can certainly not say that these guys are friends. The question is are they frenemies or are they enemies? I would tell you that looking at the entire G20, the single worst bilateral relationship among any two countries in the G20 is China-Japan, right now. I think that‚Äôs clear. By the way, 10 years ago, it was Russia-Japan. Now, at that point it was also over contested territories. The Japanese actually worked really hard to try to improve that relationship. It was a lot easier for many, many reasons. You didn‚Äôt have the cultural issues. The Russians saw Japanese as being able to write checks, and all this sort of thing. In China-Japan, it‚Äôs radically harder. Do I think that they will come to direct [confrontation]? This isn't Russia invading Georgia with tanks, but we could absolutely see direct military skirmishes over the contested territory, sure. And that potentially could involve escalation of American presence in the region. The danger here is that it has the knock-on impact of deteriorating U.S.-China relations as well. Blodget: So what happens if we get exactly that. A Japanese plane shoots tracers at a Chinese plane. The Chinese plane responds and shoots down the Japanese plane. What happens?  Bremmer: Well, first of all, you‚Äôre gonna see a cut-off of diplomatic ties between the two countries. The ambassadors of course, will immediately be withdrawn. Not complete secession, but that‚Äôs the first thing that happens. You‚Äôll see anti-Chinese and anti-Japanese across the board. You‚Äôll see some violence. There will probably be Japanese ex-pats living in China that will be roughed up and killed. Japanese exposure in China which has already taken a beating would be considered unsustainable. Japanese companies would be leaving China in droves. That‚Äôs bad enough. Those are things that are virtually certain to happen if you had that type of a confrontation. The question would then be, can both sides dial it back? I suspect from a military perspective they would. The Americans [would] immediately have a show of force. There obviously would be highest alert for both sides, but there would also be a lot of confidence-building measures between the U.S. and China to try to assure the Japanese-China military conflict would not spill out of control. Now keep in mind, Japan spends something like 1% of its GDP on the military. The Japanese aren‚Äôt defending themselves on this stuff, we are. That makes life easier in terms of thinking about how bad it can get, but because there‚Äôs no danger of going to war, right ‚Äî direct military conflict ‚Äî that allows both sides to believe that escalation is more feasible. The Cold War, if there had been conflict ‚Äî East and West Germany ‚Äî people were talking World War III. No one‚Äôs talking about that here. Blodget: Because Japan‚Äôs so weak. Bremmer: In part because Japan‚Äôs so weak. In part because Japan, China, and the United States have so many interlocking interests with the Chinese. Blodget: But if the U.S. has a show of force, it is to protect the Japanese? Bremmer: Has to be. Japan‚Äôs our ally. Blodget: We have huge interests in China as well. Bremmer: Yes, we do. Blodget: We‚Äôre going to take a side immediately? Bremmer: We have taken a side. If you look at Hillary Clinton on this point, it is very much, ‚ÄúWe don‚Äôt want to get involved in this conflict, but let‚Äôs be very clear: we support Japanese territorial integrity.‚Äù And look, we gave the Japanese administration over these islands. They are our strategic ally. We are committed to that. We have huge interests in the Middle East in energy that are going down over time. Israel is our ally. That gets us into trouble. This is clearly an analogous-type situation, but China is much more important to us economically than all these folks in the Middle East. BIodget: So if China decides to take these islands, we defend Japan? Do we go to war with China? Bremmer: I think the likelihood of that scenario is very low indeed, precisely because the United States is involved. And so, while the Chinese have prepared to play hardball with Japan, I don‚Äôt believe the Chinese are prepared to play hardball with the United States. And that‚Äôs going to have a knock-on economic effects. It‚Äôll impact U.S.-China trade relations, and it‚Äôll certainly make it much colder between the two countries. It makes the potential for a nascent cooperation on things like Syria over time very de minimis. North Korea and plenty of places where we need to cooperate are much, much harder. These are the world‚Äôs two most important powers right now. But, I think the likelihood of the Chinese [engaging militarily] with the Americans in the region defending the Japanese is very low indeed. That to me, is fear mongering. Where I think the potential is ‚Äî for actual serious economic conflict between Japan and China, over a military skirmish.¬†That‚Äôs actually real, that‚Äôs on the table right now, that could happen tomorrow. That‚Äôs a real thing. Blodget: Thanks, Ian.
Microsoft reports earnings today and despite an average EPS Beat Rate of 73% and an average Revenue Beat Rate of 68%, Microsoft (MSFT) historically declines 67% of the time in the last calendar week of January over the last five years, losing an average of .86%.This is a more substantial drop than either the market or the tech sector as a whole‚Äîthe Nasdaq is actually historically positive 66% of the time over the same period. Seasonal Odds When the following calendar week is also taken into account, Microsoft is even more of an outlier relative to the market as a whole, declining 60% of the time even though the Nasdaq is positive 80% of the time over the same period. In fact, the last week of January and the first week of February combine to produce a very significant average historical return of 3.73%, while Microsoft averages a negative return over the same period. Seasonal Odds¬†is a live-updating stock market Almanac and real-time back-testing engine developed at Harvard and MIT. It was created by Daniel Nadler (PhD Candidate, Harvard) and Pete Kruskall (S.B. and M.Eng., MIT). 
Bloomberg TVNouriel Roubini and Ian Bremmer, the president of Eurasia Group, spoke with Bloomberg TV's Tom Keene this morning on "Surveillance." The pair touched on a gamut of topics including the eurozone debt crisis, U.S. fiscal policy and North Africa. † Roubini, who is known for being "Dr. Doom," said that the eurozone is "less worse" than it was last summer. "Nouriel said that is less worse. Less bad. That's Nouriel grinning ear to ear. You don't hear that kind of optimism from him," Bremmer said later in the interview. Here's the full transcript courtesy of Bloomberg TV:† On the definition of a G-0 world: Roubini:†It was never G-7. We pretend it's G-10. It was always G-1. The leader, Germany, was to provide the global public goods, security, free trade. Now this power is declining in terms of relative terms of the United States. We have rising powers like China, Brazil, India and so on. We live in a balance of power. The balance of power with conflicts of interest with goals being very different, you cannot reach agreement on fundamental economic and geopolitical issues. It is a more fragile economy because interdependence implies that problems are global, but policies are national. Coordinating among different countries will be increasingly difficult. It leads to political, economic and financial tensions like currency wars that can lead eventually into protectionism. Roubini:†I say they are less worse than last summer in euro zone. Tail risk has been reducedÖThe fundamental problem is, look at look at the unemployment numbers in Spain today, rising even further. They are really shocking numbers. The fundamental problems in the euro zone is the lack of grown, continued recession, of debt sustainability, lack of competitiveness, remain. On the political risk in the United States: Bremmer:†The political risk in The U.S. is that unlike the fiscal cliff that we weren't going to go over by virtue of removing the debt limit and kicking that down the road, you have actually made it more likely you have a real smaller crisis on sequester. On the American attitude to what is going on in the world right now: Bremmer:†We want to do less. Roubini:†We have less fiscal resources. We cannot do more. Bremmer:†We want to show the flag to ourselves, and nation building at home, develop more patriotism about doing things in the U.S. like getting jobs back, making unemployment lower, getting jobs back, making America feel good about itself again. That's an important messageÖWe're sitting at the world economic forum. it is not global. It is global as the World Series and the World Bank and we need to understand the fact that values are becoming more localized. On Secretary Clinton's testimony yesterday and how we should look at North Africa: Bremmer:†It is a new war on terror. You saw with Obama's inauguration speech at the beginning of the week that he made very clear we are ending our war on terror and moving the troops outÖThis was the "I Have a Drone" speech, so on Martin Luther King Day. We will definitely still be engaged, but we're not going to have our troops and our footprint will be smaller. But there is a new war on terror. It is also impacting Al Qaeda. It's against political Islamists. Very radical, across North Africa. It's not the Americans. It's the FrenchÖThe real risk here is to Hollande who is not going to be able to maintain the support and the impact on his economic reforms are going to hurt. On whether they're worried about outside forces or whether a G-0 or G-7 world will get things done: Roubini:†We have been talking about a G-0 world because there are all these global economic issues in which there is disagreement between provincial powers on monetary policy, fiscal policies, exchange rates, currency wars, global imbalances, how to reform the international system of surveillance of the banks, reforming international financial systems, energy, food security and all the geopolitical issues. On all of these issues we need more coordination and cooperation within the great powers. There is a division of views not just between U.S. and China, but Japan and Europe on fundamental currency issues. Bremmer:†The point we have a lack of global coordination that is hurting us on issues like climate and trade and security is clear, but interestingly in Europe, the economics remain bad. the politics are what have gotten us to a better place. The fact that there was political will in Germany, in the ECB, in the Italian government. The new Italian government will maintain the political will. And the Spanish government. That is why we're in a better place. Nouriel said that† is less worse. Less bad. That's Nouriel grinning ear to ear. You don't hear that kind of optimism from him. On what he'd like to see in the U.S. and Europe over the next 90 days: Roubini:†For the U.S., we have kicked the cliff down the road. we have the debt ceiling issue. We have a sequester issue. We have a continued resolution issue. I think they're going to kick the can further down the road. There's not going to be a grand bargain on spending cuts and revenue increases. They will decide to cut spending by $40 billion and then push the problem another three months. And then every three months they are gong to disagree and have another commission. Until there is market pressure, and there is no market pressure in the U.S., they will kick the can down the road. †Bremmer:†For the next three months, the economics in Europe. are bad, but politics are better for the next three months. In the U.S., the economics are better but the politics are bad. We need to focus on strengths. The Europeans have to focus on maintaining political strengths even with the German election coming up. They have to stay consistent. The Americans have to focus on the economy. Roubini:†The politics of Europe could worsen. Berlusconi is not going to win the senate in ItalyÖHe already said we're going to have guerrilla warfare against the government and Monti. We're going to make the country ungovernable. That's a risk. The coalition in Greece could still collapseÖGreece could still exit out of the euro zone. Watch the full interview here:†
Business InsiderOne of the big stars of this year's Davos conference is International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde. She's not just a star because she's famous and powerful. She is also getting buzz for her ability to be perfectly smooth and charming 18 hours a day, no matter how insufferable the folks are she has to deal with. And that reputation, it seems, is deserved. I was minding my own business in one of the Congress Center lounges this morning when who should sit down next to me but Christine Lagarde. She was immediately enveloped in a scrum of photographers, TV cameras, and schmoozers, of course. And in the ensuing 20 minutes, she held impromptu discussions with a half-dozen folks who played musical chairs in the seat next to her. It was impressive to behold the ease with which Lagarde made every dime-a-dozen world-leader-guy feel like there was no one more important to her in the world. Here's one 45-second interaction:
UPDATE:¬†Markit's preliminary January reading for U.S. PMI is out. Click here to refresh for updates &gt; The headline number came in well above expectations, rising to 56.1 from last month's reading of 54.0. Economists expected the index to fall to 53.0. Today's release marks the strongest expansion since March 2011, according to Markit. The gains were driven primarily by a robust expansion in both output and new orders. Below is a table breaking down the sub-components: Markit Below is Markit Chief Economist Chris Williamson's take: ‚ÄúThe U.S. manufacturing sector started 2013 on a strong footing, reporting the fastest pace of expansion for nearly two years. Output and new orders both grew at sharply faster rates, encouraging increasing numbers of manufacturers to take on extra staff. ‚ÄúThese survey data are consistent with production growing at a quarterly rate of around 1.5% at the start of the year and manufacturing payrolls rising by approximately 15,000 per month. ‚ÄúProspects also look good for the upturn to be sustained in coming months, meaning both growth of GDP and non-farm payroll are likely to accelerate in the first quarter. Global economic growth is reviving, meaning companies are seeing stronger demand from emerging markets such as China and India as well as parts of Europe, notably Germany. However, it is the domestic market that is clearly providing the main impetus to the upturn, linked to improved confidence in the future given more aggressive stimulus from the Fed and reduced fears about the fiscal cliff.‚Äù Click here for the full release &gt; ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from Markit's preliminary January reading for U.S. PMI, due out at 8:58 AM ET. Economists expect the index to fall to 53.0 from last month's reading fo 54.0, indicating a slower pace of expansion. Any reading above 50 indicates growth in manufacturing. We will have the release here at 8:58 AM ET. Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
WASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî President Barack Obama will nominate Mary Jo White to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission, tapping an attorney with broad experience in prosecuting white-collar crimes to lead an agency that has a central role in implementing Wall Street reform. A White House official said the president would announce White's nomination during a ceremony in the State Dining Room Thursday afternoon. At the same event, Obama will renominate Richard Cordray to serve as head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the official said. The president used a recess appointment last year to circumvent Congress and install Cordray as head of the bureau. That appointment expires at the end of this year. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity in order to discuss the nominations ahead of the president. White spent nearly a decade as the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, building a reputation as a tough prosecutor with an expertise in pursuing white collar crimes and complex securities and financial fraud cases. White House officials say that experience makes her well positioned to implement Obama's Wall Street reform legislation. While serving as U.S. attorney, White also won convictions related to the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa and the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. If confirmed by the Senate, White would take over the helm at the SEC from Elisse Walter, who is serving out the rest of former SEC chair Mary Schapiro's term. Schapiro resigned in December. Cordray has run the consumer bureau since last year, when Obama used a recess appointment to install him in the job. Senate Republicans had opposed Cordray, as well as the concept of the consumer bureau. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., first conceived of the idea of a consumer protection bureau. Obama considered naming her to lead the bureau, but her nomination would likely have run into deep opposition on Capitol Hill. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
CNBCRay Dalio was just on CNBC in an interview from Davos. A good portion of the discussion was devoted to the principles of investing.¬†Dalio explained to CNBC's Andrew Ross Sorkin the biggest mistake investors make: The question in the markets is how events transpire relative to what is discounted. Too many investors are reactive decision-makers. If something has gone up, they say, "Ah, that's a good investment." They don't say, "That's more expensive." And so, that's the most common mistake in investing. You have to look ahead and say, "What is the transaction? What will be determining the buyer and seller?" Dalio went on to explain the most important thing an investor can do: I think the important thing here if I'm an investor is that the most important thing you can have is a good strategic asset allocation mix.¬† In other words, you're not going to win by trying to get what the next tip is ‚Äì¬†what's going to be good and what's going to be bad. You're definitely going to lose. So, what the investor needs to do is have a balanced, structured portfolio ‚Äì¬†a portfolio that does well in different environments. When pressed about making bets on different markets ‚Äì which Sorkin surmised must be how Dalio and his peers are so successful ‚Äì Dalio said investing was a lot like poker.¬† Here is the key takeaway: The bets are zero-sum, right? In order for you to beat me in the game, it's like poker ‚Äì¬†it's a zero-sum game. We have 1500 people who work at Bridgewater. We spend hundreds of millions of dollars on research and so on, we've been doing this for 37 years, and we don't know that we're going to win. In other words, we work that.¬†We have to have diversified bets. We have a lot of diversified bets, and so on. So, it's very important for most people to know when not to make a bet, because if you're going to come to the poker table, you're going to have to beat me, and you're going to have to beat those who take money. So, the nature of investing is that a very small percentage of the people take money, essentially, in that poker game, away from other people who don't know when prices go up whether that means it's a good investment or if it's a more expensive investment. Wise advice ‚Äì and actually very apt, since poker players should know who's at the table before sitting down. Avoidance is a key skill. MORE: 13 Poker Lessons Every Investor Needs To Know &gt;
Pirate Alice via www.flickr.com Creative CommonsUPDATE: Initial jobless claims have crushed expectations. They have fallen to lowest level since January 2008, falling to 330K. This is well below expectations of 355K. This is a great sign, and a key thing is that this low number is consistent (multiple weeks) suggesting a real sustained down move in the number of folks who are getting laid off. ------------- EARLIER: First big economic datapoint of the day: Weekly initial jobless claims. Analysts expect a reading of 355K. That's up from 335K. This number has been very bouncy lately due to various seasonal factors and one-time issues. We'll have the number here LIVE at 8:30 AM ET.
The undercover informant has told federal investigators that she passed confidential information to the trader for years. Patel, who was a technology stock manager for Steve Cohen's hedge fund, has yet to be charged with any wrongdoing. He left SAC Capital in 2010. Investigators have been concentrating their efforts on SAC Capital in a big way for years. The heat has been especially intense since¬†last November, when federal prosecutors wrote that SAC CEO¬†Steve Cohen¬†interacted with alleged insider trader, Mathew Martoma¬†in a complaint. Six former SAC employees have been convicted of or pleaded guilty to insider trading since 2009.¬† From the WSJ: The informant in the Patel matter, Reema Shah, had worked as a technology specialist for the mutual-fund manager J&amp;W Seligman &amp; Co. She pleaded guilty last May in a New York federal court to trading inside tips with a former executive at Yahoo Inc. YHOO +1.04%... A Seligman spokesman said: "We have strict policies and procedures that prohibit the use of material nonpublic information. Ms. Shah's actions were clear violations of these policies and a breach of our clients' and the company's trust." Shah has been cooperating with the Feds since 2009.
In light of the big Apple downturn, the NASDAQ is getting smacked. Miller Tabak technical analyst Jonathan Krinsky declares that the NASDAQ 100 is about to see its big test. Looking at the Nasdaq 100 futures, however, we can see that despite the decline of over 1% as of 7:30 am, they are still holding above a key area of support just above 2700. Interestingly, after the index made a Death Cross in December, it is now about to form a Golden Cross, where the 50 DMA moves above the 200 DMA. We know that moving averages, by definition, are lagging data. As such, while Golden Crosses can be quite bullish, we donít want to put too much emphasis on that point.† The bigger issue is whether the market is able to absorb this first potential hit of 2013. Holding above 2700 would likely be viewed as a victory for the Bulls today. Meanwhile, S&amp;P futures have mainly ignored the AAPL weakness, with the ESH3 down just 0.20% as of 7:30 am. Even a pull-back to 1475, however, would be well within the confines of a bullish consolidation. Should we see selling pressure build beneath 1470, then a change of character may be upon us. Here's a chart of NASDAQ 100 futures, with a line at 2700 where the "test" is. FinViz
 Michael Dell is strolling around the conference center in Davos today--looking quite sharp, as usual. So are Steve Schwarzman and a number of other private-equity moguls, including some who may or may not be involved in the hot-and-heavy talks to take Dell private. Michael Dell and the private-equity moguls, of course, won't discuss the ongoing talks, even in the corridors at Davos. But here are some questions that Michael Dell, especially, should be encouraged to answer: We can, of course, speculate about what Michael Dell and his private-equity partners will do when they take Dell private: That's standard private-equity operating procedure. Sometimes, if it's done well, it actually improves companies, in addition to making the private-equity moguls rich. Sometimes, if it's done badly, it guts companies and overloads them with debt, so that they collapse within a year or two of being sold back to the public markets. There's nothing wrong with the good part of that. But if that's what Michael Dell and his private-equity backers plan to do with Dell when they buy it--if that's the way to generate an awesome return for shareholders--why doesn't CEO Michael Dell just do that now? What's stopping him? SEE ALSO: The Truth About Davos
Neel Kashkari, former TARP Czar and current managing director at PIMCO, is thinking about a run for office, says the WSJ. Kashkari, 39, would run as a Republican in California, which is not an easy task. It isn't clear what office he would run for either. Governor Jerry Brown is up for election in 2014 and hasn't announced if he'll run for re-election yet or not. Senator Barbara Boxer's term expires in 2016. From WSJ: "As I look at California, there are huge problems," Mr. Kashkari said in an interview, pointing to the state's long-term budget troubles, weak job market and problem-plagued public schools. "These challenges are huge but they're of our own making‚Äîso they are within our capacity to solve," he said... "I'm not the typical California Republican. I'm the son of immigrants," Mr. Kashkari said. "I come from modest upbringing. I have a successful track record. I'm an optimist. And I think something can be done if people work together." He said he plans to seek advice from California Republicans and Democrats before making any decisions, but already has launched a campaign-style website. Kashkari is at PIMCO, the world's largest bond fund, building the company's equity portfolio. He manages 6 mutual funds with about $10 billion under management all together. Read the full story at WSJ&gt;
Ever since Bill Ackman announced that he was shorting multi-level marketing nutrition company Herbalife, the Street has wondered if his fellow activist investor, David Einhorn had taken a position as well. Now, according to the WSJ, the word is out that he did have one in 2012, but closed out before the end of the year. He disclosed this information at an investor meeting at the Museum of Natural History yesterday. Speculation that Einhorn had built a position in the stock didn't come from thin air. Back in May the activist investor jumped on an Herbalife conference call and asked three questions about the company's business model that sent the stock plummeting. ¬† Here are the questions Einhorn asked: His questions amount to one simple point ‚Äî whether or not Herbalife actually makes enough revenue outside its network of sellers to sustain the company. Bill Ackman asserts that it does not, and that the company is a pyramid scheme. The WSJ says that Einhorn didn't get into much detail about his Herbalife short at his investor meeting (which was held at the Museum of Natural History). He said that he didn't want to "butt heads" with Ackman and hedge fund manager Dan Loeb, who has a long position in the stock.
Youtube screengrabRay Dalio is live on CNBC right now. We are live-blogging below. Click here for LIVE updates &gt; Dalio says everything is a transaction ‚Äì every good, service, or financial asset, someone is buying with money or credit. Credit is promised to deliver money. Credit grows a lot faster than money and income, and when that happens, it can't go on for long ‚Äì at some point, you can't service debt, because it's a promise to deliver money. Then, there is a deleveraging. So, there are four things you can do. You can transfer money (e.g. from Germany to Spain). Or, you can write down the debt. But one man's debt is another man's assets. The third thing you can do is spend less money. And the fourth option is printing money to cover the debt. Dalio says the bubble was obvious because the debt growth relative to income just couldn't continue. Dalio says the capacity of lenders to meet borrowing requirements has largely been adjusted. Italy's and Spain's borrowings have collapsed ‚Äì and with them, the collapse of their economies. Even still, there was not enough money to service the debt. In Spain, the ECB came in and put in about 450 billion euros worth of money. There was an unbridgeable funding gap. So now we have a situation where the debt funding needs and rollover needs are approximately in line. Dalio says in Spain, we have a lost decade. Dalio says there will be a long period of adjustment, and the key question is whether Europe will raise productivity. The fundamental thing Europe needs to do most is make sure the nominal interest rate is below the nominal growth rate, or else the debt will compound faster than the economy grows. Dalio says Europe came right to the edge of chaos because there was no ECB backstop, but we moved past that point. Dalio says the question now for markets is how events transpire relative to what the market has discounted. Dalio says the most common mistake in investing is not looking ahead and considering the transaction ‚Äì who is going to be the buyer and who is going to be the seller (of a particular asset)? Dalio says 2013 is likely to be a transition year, where large amounts of cash will move to stock and all sorts of stuff ‚Äì goods, services, and financial assets. People will spend more with the cash, they will invest in equities and gold ‚Äì the cash will move. Dalio says this will make the Federal Reserve's concerns begin to change. It's probably something that won't happen immediately, but later in the year, Dalio thinks we are going to see more of that. Dalio says the way he looks at any market is to look at who is buying, who is selling, and the motivations behind that. Dalio says gold is generally something that large buyers would like to accumulate over a very long time, very slowly, and build that diversification. However, gold is a very small market compared to that. Dalio says the behavior of gold makes perfect sense in that light. Dalio says the most important thing as an investor is to have a good strategic allocation ‚Äì a balanced, structured portfolio that does well in different environments. Dalio says there is a certain discounted growth rate in equities and other assets. So, a good portfolio has assets that do well when growth is higher than expected, assets that do well when growth is lower than expected, etc. Dalio says he has two basic portfolios ‚Äì the first is an all-weather, strategic allocation mix, which has nothing to do with making "bets." Dalio says the one thing you can be most confident of is that assets on average will outperform cash. The second portfolio is the bets ‚Äì and those are zero-sum. One person wins, another loses. Dalio says it's very important for investors to know when not to make a bet ‚Äì because if you come to the poker table, you have to come prepared to beat the reigning champ. Dalio says everything is a transaction ‚Äì and politics won't have any effect on prices unless it plays into motivations behind buyers and sellers in transactions. Dalio says if policy changes, it has to have an effect on productivity to be really significant. Then, there are times when policy is critical, like Mario Draghi and the ECB's actions in 2012. If you understand the cause and effect, that's what it's all about. Dalio says if you put 50 percent of your money in stocks and 50 percent in bonds, the problem is that you have 80 percent of your risk in stocks and 20 percent in bonds (due to relative volatilities). So, in structuring a good portfolio, you have to have comparable risks. If there were a law that said you couldn't leverage, then the return of equities would be a lot like that of bonds. Dalio says the European economy will be terrible, and gradual restructuring will go on for a while. In the United States, there will be a move out on the risk spectrum. Japan will be awash with liquidity given its recent monetary and fiscal policies. That concludes Ray Dalio's interview on CNBC.
Agence Zoom/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
US NavyHere it is folks, your ultimate guide to how Wall Street is reacting to last night's Apple earnings catastrophe. As a refresher, Apple offered tepid guidance last night, and missed estimates for iPhone sales. The stock is off 11%. Here's what analysts are saying. BARCLAYS: Capitulation Process Seems Well Underway: "It seems the reaction to this EPS report is universally negative ‚Äì especially since AAPL gave subdued guidance and changed the way it does it (they really mean it). We believe a capitulation process is underway ‚Äì and while painful ‚Äì it is healthy since the loftiest expectations should be reined in quite a bit. This spring, Apple should be readying a bevy of new products and services ‚Äì and when the builds for these products become known ‚Äì shares may act a lot better. We have seen sentiment turn quickly before with other leaders like Facebook (in 2012) and Google (in 2011). While this recent sell-off and Apple‚Äôs execution of late has tested our patience, we will evaluate Apple from here based on whether these products and services create the kind of excitement we are used to. Maintain OW rating." CLSA: Two key (interrelated) questions related to Apple are 1) whether the company has lost its competitive edge and 2) what the right margin profile is longer term. We believe Apple maintains its premium brand image (e.g. iPhone ASP) but needs to adapt to marketplace demands and abandon misperceptions about ‚Äúone-handed ease of use‚Äù (yes many like it, but many don‚Äôt) by broadening its iPhone lineup ‚Äì the same way it abandoned its 7‚Äù tablet stance and delivered a best-in-class product. We believe margins with multiple phone form factors and a lower-end offering for emerging markets could be structurally lower, but this is very much discounted in the share price as discussed below. We lower F13/F14 EPS from $48.95/58.38 to $44.79/51.71 reflecting lower iPhone share, mini cannibalization, and lower gross margin. We cut our price target from $680 to $575 reflecting lower estimates and risk associated with its product transition. BUY maintained. CREDIT SUISSE: Three steps to a recovery: none coming imminently, patience required. First, a new product cycle (we expect a high-end iPhone refresh and lower end iPhone later in 2013). Second, increased carrier expansion: while this is clearly happening slower than we thought, we still believe it's likely over 12 months. Third, increased cash distribution: Apple ended the quarter with $137bn of net cash some ~30% of market cap and 31% onshore so the capacity to distribute exits. While all these catalysts are plausible, none are imminent in our view, meaning patience is required. PIPER JAFFRAY: We are buyers of AAPL on the pull back following the company's December quarter earnings report based on our belief that Street numbers will be adequately reset and investors will return to the stock once the potential of new products comes into focus over the next 3-6 months. While we are adjusting our price target to $767, we remain optimistic about shares of AAPL. NOMURA: The weak Q2 dynamics seem to support our view that Apple is moving into an ex-growth phase in which unit growth is likely to come increasingly at the expense of gross margin declines. The net effect is limited earnings growth, EPS that likely tops-out at $50, which is likely to attract a multiple little better than comparable ex-growth peers such as Microsoft and Cisco. An 8x ex-cash multiple on our EPS forecast of $50 plus $89 in excess cash drives our fair value of $490. CITI: We stand by our recent downgrade and continue to rate the shares Neutral. On lower estimates, our price target falls to $500 from $575. DEUTSCHE BANK: AAPL reported revs of $54.5B and EPS of $13.81 which beat EPS expectations (vs. Street at $54.5B/$13.33; DB at $53.4B/$12.55). Upside was led by iPhone (48M vs. DB at 45M) and iPad (22.9M vs. DB at 22.0M) which offset light Mac results (4.1M vs. DB at 5.4M). Despite the EPS beat, AAPL revised its guidance format and the combination of margin pressure and decelerating iPhone growth implicit in guidance raises growth concerns. We reset estimates and cut our price target to $575. Trading at $460 in the aftermarket (~7x PE ex cash) we view AAPL as undervalued; maintain Buy. GOLDMAN: A tough setback, but the story is not broken Apple reported 1QFY2013 revenues of $54.51 billion, above our estimate of $53.56 billion and just below consensus of $54.73 billion. EPS of $13.81 was above our estimate of $12.58 and consensus of $13.44. Gross margins of 38.6% and operating margins of 31.6% were above our forecast of 37.0% and 29.4%. iPhone, iPad, and Mac units all fell slightly short of our expectations, although more resilient margins led to the slight EPS beat. Apple‚Äôs guidance was essentially what we expected from the typically conservative management team. The problem, and the key disappointment in the call, was that management made it pretty clear that it was moving towards providing more realistic guidance. In this case, the guidance was a definitive disappointment. JP MORGAN: Apples and Oranges: Fundamentals and Investor Expectations Continue to Diverge We reiterate our Overweight rating and Dec-13 price target of $725 on Apple. We are surprised by the sharp correction in shares of Apple in last night‚Äôs after-hours trading. At one point, the stock declined 10%, as the company tried to explain its new guidance approach. Without splitting hairs too much, we think the new guidance commentary is not much of a change and could restore beat-and-raise potential to the model. JEFFREYS: Downgrade to Hold: Demand Slowdown and Margin Pressure We are downgrading Apple from Buy to Hold due to: 1) slowdown in iPhone sales is real and material; 2) we believe margins are likely to continue to fall; 3) new guidance methodology implies less potential upside to the model. We cut our estimates and PT from $800 to $500. MIZUHO SECURITIES: Moving into the Value Territory? F1Q13 Results While we expect growth investors to continue losing interest in the story as earnings growth is unlikely to materialize this year, the stock offers plenty of reasons for value investors to step in at these levels. We reiterate our Buy rating while lowering our PT to $575 from $600. MORGAN STANLEY: Reiterate OW. The medium-term risk-reward is attractive with our Base case EPS now close to the Bear case and positive catalysts in F2H13. But near-term catalysts are limited as Apple faces tougher comps in C1Q13; as a result, Apple is being removed from the Best Ideas list. SOCGEN: After disappointing quarter, new products are needed to drive future growth The results for Apple‚Äôs two key products suggest that iPhones and iPads are now growing broadly in line with the overall market for smartphones and tablets, i.e., much slower than growth rates seen in the last few years. Additionally, the margins have shrunk considerably, with the overall gross margin down by more than 600bp YoY. With slower growth and greater competition, a rapid recovery looks unlikely to us, at least based on the current product line-up. We have therefore cut back dramatically on growth rates for the iPhone, with revised growth of 12% for FY13 (previously 20%). We have also taken down our assumed margins, looking for a 45% margin on iPhones (over 50% previously) and 30% on iPads (35% previously). The net impact of these changes is to cut our EPS forecasts by over 25% for FY13 and FY14. TOPEKA: Given the decline in the share price, we are lowering our 12-month price target to $888.00 from $1,111.00 for Buy-rated Apple, which is based on over 13x (S&amp;P 500 multiple) our interest expense/income adjusted CY14 pro forma EPS estimate plus net cash per share of $144.75. This equates to a straight P/E of just over 15x our CY13 EPS estimate, and is well below the mid-20x's multiple of 2006-2010.¬† SEE ALSO: Nomura says Apple's ex-growth phase has begun &gt;
Wikimedia COmmonsTopeka's Brian White throws in the towel, and has moved down his $1111 price target on Apple. In a new note, he says: Last night, Apple reported 1QFY13 results and offered up a 2QFY13 sales outlook that was inline with our model but fell short of the Street's estimates, while margins are expected to be below our projections. As such, we are slightly tweaking our sales estimate higher but taking a modest haircut to our EPS projection. With Apple down 10% in after market trading, the stock is trading at less than 6x (ex-cash) our CY14 EPS estimate and we believe there is quite a bit of bad news priced into the stock at current levels, while estimate resets lower the bar for the future. At the same time, we believe the profit and sales cycle will reach the bottom in 2QFY13. ... Given the decline in the share price, we are lowering our 12-month price target to $888.00 from $1,111.00 for Buy-rated Apple, which is based on over 13x (S&amp;P 500 multiple) our interest expense/income adjusted CY14 pro forma EPS estimate plus net cash per share of $144.75. This equates to a straight P/E of just over 15x our CY13 EPS estimate, and is well below the mid-20x's multiple of 2006-2010. There are going to be lots of notes today on Apple. Earlier Nomura said that the company was entering its "ex-growth" phase.
The main activity in Davos: Bloviating.Two years ago, when the folks at the World Economic Forum first invited me to Davos, I began writing a series called "The Truth About Davos." The goal of the series was to convey what the conference is actually like, instead of just reporting news or regurgitating marketing speak. This "truth about Davos," I suspected, was not necessarily going to be negative--it was just going to be truth (good, bad, funny, silly, sad, ironic, whatever). And that's what it turned out to be. At a party last night, someone told me they had enjoyed those articles and asked me to feature them again. So here's a selection... THE TRUTH ABOUT DAVOS: And in case you're curious, here are a few in this vein from this year: I'll add more as they come...
There are sure to be lots of brutal Apple takedowns from Wall Street today. Here's one from Nomura, which declares that the company is now in its "ex-growth" phase, which is very ominous sounding. The weak Q2 dynamics seem to support our view that Apple is moving into an ex-growth phase in which unit growth is likely to come increasingly at the expense of gross margin declines. The net effect is limited earnings growth, EPS that likely tops-out at $50, which is likely to attract a multiple little better than comparable ex-growth peers such as Microsoft and Cisco. An 8x ex-cash multiple on our EPS forecast of $50 plus $89 in excess cash drives our fair value of $490. This table shows how Nomura values the stock: Nomura And in a real ice age scenario, it could get even worse. Potential downside risk to $336 If we exclude the excess cash, as some investors may do, then there is downside to the stock to $400. Moreover, if iPhone gross margins fall to 40% vs. our 47% forecast, then EPS could fall to $42 and fair value could decline further to $336. SEE ALSO: Gundlach: Apple could go to $300 &gt;
New York Public LibraryIf you haven't been paying attention, then this is an economic subplot you might want to raise your eyebrow over. We've had a string of VERY big misses on the regional manufacturing data. In the past 10 days we've had big whiffs from Philly Fed, Empire Fed, and Richmond Fed. Now these surveys are kind of subjective, and they could all reflect Fiscal Cliff fears timing or something like that. Hopefully that's all they are. Still, when the survey results are so widespread, you might want to take notice. Today at 10:00 AM we get Kansas City Fed. We'll see if the trend continues.
Basically, people are growing more comfortable talking about it in a way that "cutting" it isn't an urgent priority right now. It started back in early December, with Paul Krugman pointing out that, no, we aren't facing trillion dollar deficits for years to come, and that actually debt-to-GDP is pretty close to being stabilized. Ezra Klein at WaPo recently wrote "The Case For Deficit Optimism." Larry Summer has a new piece on how we shouldn't obsess over the deficit. Uber-budget wonk Peter Orszag has been writing about how we're making more progress in whipping healthcare inflation than people have expected. Martin Wolf at FT has a new piece up stating the objectively true (but which far too few people recognize) that the US is not in a state of fiscal crisis. And of course, Obama himself at his inauguration basically totally ignored the deficit, not at all extending an olive branch to Fix The Debt-types. Now of course, most of the above are left of left-of-center types, who you'd expect to be dovish on the deficit. And they come at it from different angles. But the fact that they're all talking now about the deficit not being much of an issue is a pretty significant trend, and speaks to a growing comfort stating a view that a year or two would have been extremely controversial. And furthermore, it's not just liberals who are shifting what they say. Brad Dayspring, a Former top Eric Cantor aide and now Senior Advisor to the YG Action Fund, tweeted this morning Conservatives would be wise to focus on economic growth and job creation instead of austerity/cuts alone. ow.ly/h3NpL This isn't the same thing as saying deficits aren't a problem, but it is distinct from the cuts-first way of talking about deficits that has dominated the conversation on the right. SEE ALSO: Americans will be shocked when this deficit chart comes true &gt;
Dick Thaler gives out some advice to econ students: My advice for young researchers at the start of their career is‚Ä¶ Work on your own ideas, not your advisor‚Äôs ideas (or at least in addition to her ideas). I think this is bad advice. ¬†Kids love to think that they can do it all themselves in an Ayn Rand fantasy, independent of others. ¬†Yet, to succeed is to succeed socially, because we are social animals, so we need not just good ideas, but good ideas people are receptive to. This means, understand what customers/readers/users want, and what colleagues want to help you with. ¬†Sure, you can do it yourself with sheer brilliance, but it's infinitely more difficult than simply extending someone else's work. ¬†In the book I‚Äôll Have What She‚Äôs Having, the anthropologist authors argue that we mostly copy everyone else: first our parents, then our peers, then anyone who seems to be doing well. Generally, it works, as if you want to figure out how to ride the subway, you could do worse than stand back and watch everyone else. Evolutionary biologist Mark Pagel takes this a step further by stating emulating others is the basis for almost every idea we have, and notes that very few of us create things that are later used by many others; think the number zero, the wheel, soap, iron, the alphabet. Kids aren't good at listening to their parents, but they are predictable imitators because that's a good strategy.  We are fundamentally an imitating species. Most innovators spend their formative years producing derivative work: Bob Dylan's first album contained 11 cover songs, comedian Richard Pryor began his career doing imitations of Bill Cosby, Hunter S. Thompson retyped The Great Gatsby just to get a feel for writing a great novel, and most of Freud's theories were riffs on Greek literature and Shakespeare. ¬†We copy to acquire knowledge that becomes the foundation for variations and extensions that appear to outsiders as thinking outside the box. As Isaac Newton said, we stand on the shoulders of giants (itself, a rephrase of a saying by 12th century French philosopher Bernard de Chartres) You can't make variations on a theme without understanding that theme, and having the theme your are riffing on well-accepted already. ¬†Personally, I wrote my dissertation on what interested me, low volatility stocks, and thought it was fascinating. ¬†It was a total flop--I got zero flyouts--mostly because it had no supporters in our finance department.  You need mentors and advocates. ¬†Sure, there's the occasional Ken Arrow with his dissertation on the impossibility theorem, or John Nash's theory on, well, Nash equilibrium, but those are ¬†exceptions. ¬†Most successful academics published their first paper by merely extending their dissertation¬†advisor's ideas (Joe Stiglitz edited Paul Samuelson's collected works as a grad student, giving him a good feel for how a paper should be presented).¬†As Thaler is mainly famous for some papers finding that 3-year winners and losers mean-revert, I think his main take-away is that it helps to be lucky, because those papers were seriously flawed and wouldn't have made it out of many incubators (see¬†here), and that result has been orphaned because it doesn't hold up. ¬†Back in the 1990's, successful students simply applied the latest technique (eg, vector autoregressions, generalized method of moments), using TeX, which then was instantly credible because it looked a lot like what those top economists were doing. Add a top prof as your advocate because you are adding a reference useful to his reputation, and you have job offers.  I really like this old piece by Robin Hanson on The Myth of Creativity: To succeed in academia, my graduate students and I had to learn to be less creative than we were initially inclined to be. Critics complain that schools squelch creativity, but most people are inclined to be more creative on the job than would be truly productive.
Twitter / @acampadabcn_intHere's a stat that's getting a lot of attention today. According to a new report from Spain's Institution Of National Statistics, youth unemployment is about to break 60%. Specifically, youth unemployment is at 59.8%, according to the report. It was merely at 50% early last year. It's a totally cliched thought at this point, but turning around the actual Eurozone economies is a huge and urgent challenge, which if not addressed will destroy the legitimacy of all these governments.
We just mentioned how horrible French Flash PMI was. But Germany? Awesome. Markit
Flash PMI -- the preview report for the official PMI manufacturing report that will come out at the beginning og February -- was horrible for France. All you really need to see are these stats:  And this chart:  Full report here &gt;
brankomaster / Flickr UPDATE: What's interesting is that markets have mostly recovered from earlier, when things were in the red. Apple will be a big drag on the NASDAQ today, and the S&amp;P to some extent. But markets are mostly ho-hom at this point, and Europe has gone from red to slightly positive. EARLIER: The big story today, obviously, will be the Apple earnings debacle, which caused the stock to fall more than 10% after hours last night. NASDAQ futures are going to get hammered, as the stock has such a big weighting in that index. The question is whether Apple spreads elsewhere. There may not be much of a reason to worry, as Apple went from $700 to $500, while the overall market made new high after new high. Europe is down modestly across the board. Italy, for example, is down 0.35%. Asia had a big night after China's Flash PMI hit a 24-month high.
