flickr/Bart Heird Since 2008, the Federal Reserve has kept interest rates pinned at zero, maxing out its main policy tool for stimulating the American economy following the worst recession in 80 years. Given the disappointing nature of the recovery since then, the central bank has added unconventional monetary policy tools to the mix – foremost among them a balance-sheet expansion fueled by government bond purchases known as quantitative easing – in a bid to provide the economy with further stimulus. Yet the effectiveness of these efforts, too, has been deemed questionable – despite several years and several trillions of dollars of bond buying, unemployment remains high and inflation remains below target – and now, the Fed is moving toward winding down quantitative easing altogether. The reality, though, is that the effectiveness of monetary policy has actually been in decline for a long time. Part of the reason for this decline, according to a new research paper published by the International Monetary Fund: aging in advanced economies around the world. In the paper – titled "Shock from Graying: Is the Demographic Shift Weakening Monetary Policy Effectiveness" – IMF economist Patrick Imam links aging populations in countries like the U.S., U.K., Japan, Germany, and Canada to empirical evidence that monetary policy has become less effective. "Based on the life-cycle hypothesis, we would expect older societies to typically have a large share of households that are creditors, and to be less sensitive to interest rate changes, while younger societies would typically have a larger share of debtors with higher sensitivities to monetary policy," says Imam. And "with fertility rates plummeting around the world—often below replacement rate—including in low-income countries," the IMF economist writes, "the world is going through an unprecedented demographic shift that is leading to a rapidly graying world." The paper seeks to test how much of the decline in monetary-policy effectiveness can be attributed to aging. "The results reveal that a graying society, as measured by the old-age dependency ratio, exerts a negative (in absolute terms) statistically significant long-run impact on the effectiveness of monetary policy," Imam finds. "All else being equal, an increase in the old-age dependency ratio of one point lowers (in absolute terms) the cumulative impact of a monetary policy shock on inflation and unemployment by 0.10 percentage points and 0.35 percentage points, respectively." In other words, as the old-age dependency ratio (the ratio of those in the population 65 and older to those between 15 and 64 years of age) rises, a change in policy rates by the central bank has less and less of an effect on unemployment and inflation rates. "These estimates thus imply, when taken at face value, quite a strong negative long-run effect of the ageing of the population on the effectiveness of monetary policy," says Imam. "This is particularly significant when linked to, for instance, the projected 10 point rise in the old-age dependency ratio in Germany over the next decade." This leads the IMF economist to a few conclusions, two of which we highlight here (emphasis added): Click here for the full paper »
Brazil has had a pretty rough time since 2012. Even as GDP expanded 3.3% on the year in Q2, economists doubt whether Brazil can maintain this momentum. But turns out economists have been getting increasingly bearish on Latin America as a whole. Bloomberg economist Michael McDonough tweeted this chart of global GDP forecasts. And it clearly shows that economists have been downwardly revising their GDP forecasts for Latin America. Michael McDonough 
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidU.S. stock mutual funds saw outflows this week for the first time since early June, the Wall Street Journal reports. Investors, possibly worried over potential U.S. military action in Syria, pulled $226 million in the week that ended Sept. 4, according to Lipper data pulled by the Journal. The previous week, investors pumped $1 billion into stock mutual funds.
Michael Loccisano/Getty ImagesMarket economists have been expecting the Federal Reserve to announce the tapering of its $85 billion large-scale asset purchase (LSAP) program at the conclusion of the September 17-18 Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. The LSAP, informally known as quantitative easing (QE), consists of monthly purchases of $45 billion worth of Treasury securities an $40 billion worth of mortgage bonds. This effort has been intended to keep interest rates low to stimulate the economy. All of those economists have said any final decision to begin tapering QE would come after the August jobs report, which we now know was much weaker-than-expected. So, what are the Wall Street's top economists saying after seeing the crappy numbers, which were highlighted by the fact that July and June were revised negatively? Basically, they all acknowledge the weakness, but it wasn't disastrous enough to derail the direction of the modestly improving jobs market. But they all agree that the taper is coming in September. If anything has changed, the initial size of the taper may have gotten smaller. From their mouths: Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart: "Friday’s employment results create more uncertainty about the prospects for tapering starting at the Sept 18th FOMC meeting, but while it's a closer call, we still expect that Fed officials are becoming confident enough in a sustained turn higher in the economy going forward and dubious enough about the declining benefits of ongoing QE versus rising costs that they will move forward with an announcement of a start to slowing QE. This inclines us to believe that, if they start tapering, it will be a modest amount and accompanied by language emphasizing their flexibility going forward. If they decide to wait for more data confirming a pickup in second half growth at this month's FOMC meeting, that probably just means the start of QE tapering gets pushed out to the October meeting." JP Morgan's Michael Feroli: "Regarding the Fed, we think today's number leaves them on track for a $15 billion taper at the September meeting, with a risk of a smaller, $10 billion move. One argument we have heard against tapering is the softness evident in the July jobs number, and to a lesser extent in August. It is statistical insanity to think that in any twelve-month period with job growth averaging 184,000 that each month's outcome should be less than 80,000 away from that average, and even crazier to call 169,000 a disappointment relative to that average. As far as the unemployment rate, we are now within shelling distance of the 7% "vicinity" figure that the Chairman has referenced -- analogous to baseball's vicinity rule -- as consistent with the end of asset purchases. It is true that today's move in the rate appears driven by declining participation, but Committee members may gradually be making their peace with a falling participation rate (cf Williams' comments earlier this week). Moreover, to the extent the doves have highlighted that the unemployment rate understates the degree of labor market slack, they usually do so with reference to the 6.5% threshold policy, not the 7% vicinity rule. To get even close to that plan, the Fed will need to begin tapering soon." Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna: "In terms of the Fed, we believe that the markets are largely prepared for some degree of tapering at the September FOMC meeting. Consequently, policymakers will be loath to disappoint these expectations. As a result, a minitaper— which would consist of a $10 billion reduction in Treasury purchases and a $5 billion reduction in mortgages (to $35 billion per month in each asset class, respectively) now appears to be the most likely scenario." UBS's Kevin Cummins: "All in, the disappointing headline payroll data, including the downward revisions to June and July, make our call for the FOMC to announce tapering at the September meeting a close call. The next key report for the Fed will be the August retail sales, industrial production and CPI reports. Still, we don’t feel it was weak enough to delay a modest cutback in the Fed’s asset purchase program. We continue to expect a token taper of $10 billion to be announced on September 18." Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius: "One risk to our forecast that growth will accelerate from late 2013 is the tightening of our Goldman Sachs Financial Conditions Index (GSFCI) over the past few months, as investors have started to worry about a more rapid exit from the Federal Reserve’s accommodative policy stance. Partly for this reason, we expect only a “dovish taper” from the September 17-18 FOMC meeting, with a reinforcement of the forward guidance for the funds rate." Well Fargo's John Silvia: "With the employment picture normalizing, it is time for monetary policy to move in that direction as well. The first step in that process is to wind down the Fed’s monthly securities purchase program, which we still believe will be announced, and most likely implemented, in September. The second step will be to outline the timing and pace at which the Fed will increase the federal funds rate, which will also be reemphasized at the September FOMC meeting. The latest forecast summary from the Fed shows the majority of FOMC participants believe the federal funds rate will begin to rise around the middle of 2015 and end that year at around 1.25 percent. We largely agree with this assessment. Once the Fed makes its announcement about tapering, we believe the discussion will shift toward normalizing monetary policy. The timeline will vary depending on who succeeds Ben Bernanke as Fed chair but should look roughly as it does now, with the federal funds rate beginning to rise around the middle of 2015."
California's Silicon Valley is justifiably celebrated as the center of America's innovation economy. Some of the most beloved and successful companies in the world are located there, built by generations of entrepreneurs, investors, and engineers who have used their immense talents to change the world. And yet, despite Silicon Valley's remarkable wealth, talent, and inventions, the Valley has also failed to meet all of its residents' most basic needs, starting with food and shelter. The Valley, in fact, is home to the largest homeless camp in the continental United States, which is located in a middle-class neighborhood in San Jose. In Silicon Valley, the gap between a company like Google and a vast homeless camp like "The Jungle" is called The Great Divide. Business Insider went to Silicon Valley and San Francisco last month to learn more about The Great Divide. We were surprised every step of the way by the courage of those on the streets and the generosity of individuals and corporations throughout Silicon Valley. The infographic below is followed by some photos that show just how close to home this problem hits. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider
Reuters/ Eduardo MunozNew York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said in an interview with New York Magazine that mayoral front-runner Bill de Blasio was running a campaign that he characterized as "class-warfare and racist." Bloomberg said in the interview that the New York Times was "right" in their endorsements of Democrat Christine Quinn and Republican Joe Lhota in the mayoral race. Then he was asked by New York Magazine's Chris Smith about de Blasio. Bloomberg said de Blasio was running a "racist" campaign, specifically pointing to de Blasio's highlighting of his family on the trail and in campaign ads. His wife, Chirlane McCray, who is black, often campaigns with him, and their teenage son, Dante, has appeared in campaign ads — including a memorable one that is often credited as a major part of de Blasio's rise in the polls. Bloomberg also ripped de Blasio's strategy as one of "division." Here's the exchange: Q: Then there’s Bill de Blasio, who’s become the Democratic front-runner. He has in some ways been running a class-warfare campaign—Class-warfare and racist. Q: Racist? I mean he’s making an appeal using his family to gain support. I think it’s pretty obvious to anyone watching what he’s been doing. I do not think he himself is racist. It’s comparable to me pointing out I’m Jewish in attracting the Jewish vote. You tailor messages to your audiences and address issues you think your audience cares about. But his whole campaign is that there are two different cities here. And I’ve never liked that kind of division. The way to help those who are less fortunate is, number one, to attract more very fortunate people. They are the ones that pay the bills. The people that would get very badly hurt here if you drive out the very wealthy are the people he professes to try to help. Tearing people apart with this “two cities” thing doesn’t make any sense to me. It’s a destructive strategy for those you want to help the most. He’s a very populist, very left-wing guy, but this city is not two groups, and if to some extent it is, it’s one group paying for services for the other. De Blasio's campaign didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. A spokesperson said that he would respond to Bloomberg's comments at an afternoon campaign event. Bloomberg's published comments come just three days before the Democratic primary on Tuesday. De Blasio has been the overwhelming front-runner in recent polls. In a Quinnipiac poll released last week, de Blasio led with 43% of the Democratic vote, which would be enough to avoid a runoff. Bloomberg hasn't endorsed anyone as his potential successor, but he is expected to endorse the Republican Lhota if de Blasio does indeed win the Democratic nomination.
REUTERS/David GrayAustralia's conservative leader Tony Abbott claims victory in Australia's federal election during an election night function in Sydney September 7, 2013. Abbott swept into office in a landslide election on Saturday as voters punished the outgoing Labor government for six years of turbulent rule and for failing to maximise the benefits of a now fading mining boom. Tony Abbott, head of the conservative Liberal Party, will be the new Prime Minister of Australia. He's a pretty controversial guy. Among the contenders for his most extreme viewpoint is his belief that the science around climate change is "absolute crap."  The full quote, according to a report in the Pyrenes Advocate in the country's southeast, was the following: The argument is absolute crap. However, the politics of this are tough for us. Eighty percent of people believe climate change is a real and present danger. In his acceptance speech just a few moments ago, he named scrapping Australia's carbon tax as the very first thing he hopes to accomplish in the next three years. That being said, Abbott does have a plan, of sorts, to reduce carbon emissions. It's called Direct Action, and it's supposed to provide $3 billion in grants and subsidies to encourage energy efficiency. There's also an initiative to sell captured carbon to farmers to increase crop yield.  But most scientists don't see the plan as a viable way for reducing emissions, and Abbott has said he will cap the program's budget regardless of whether it gets the country to its bipartisan goal of reducing overall emissions by 5% by 2020. He also plans to shut down the government's Clean Energy Finance Corporation, which cost $10 billion. Dismantling the carbon tax probably can't happen overnight as the Liberal Party is  unlikely to win full control of the senate. But the direction the country is heading in is now clear.
Here's an incredible chart that shows how rapidly solar power is being installed in America. In 2006, just 7 years ago, there was one new installation of a solar unit every 80 minutes. Today? There's one installation every four minutes. The U.S. is on pace to see one new solar installation every 83 seconds by 2016, renewable energy research group Greentech Media says. GreenTechMedia Perhaps even more amazing:Â two-thirds of all "distributed," or localized, solar in the U.S. has been installed in the past 2 1/2 years. Greentech VP Shayle Kann told us that by 2016, New Jersey will have surged to the No. 2 solar producer in the country, leapfrogging Arizona. Meanwhile, New York will surge from 10th to 5th, thanks to its renewable portfolio standard that dictates 29% of all the state's energy needs must be renewably sourced by 2015.
REUTERS/James Lawler DugganU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke delivers his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress before the House Financial Services Committee in Washington, July 17, 2013.On Friday, the August Non-Farm Payrolls report came out and it was weak. Not only did it miss headline expectations, but there were significant downward revisions to past months. And yet despite that, there's still a general belief that the Fed will "taper" (reduce the pace of Large-Scale Asset Purchases) starting at its September meeting. What gives? Trader and economist Mark Dow has a great explanation of the Fed's thinking. Basically, the Fed is realizing that QE isn't having the positive goal on real-world economic data that its biggest supporters would like, and that it's impact is mostly psychological. It doesn't believe that tapering is tightening (since the balance sheet will still be expanding) and so the best move then is to end QE in a controlled and predictable manner, so as to learn on other tools (like the zero interest rate policy). Here's Dow: QE has triggered significant effects in markets and indeed helped buy precious time for household balance sheets to heal and animal spirits to revive. This has been an important contribution. But it is now clearer that the primary channel through which this has taken place is psychological. Most everyone now knows that the money “pumped in” by QE has largely remained as reserves on the balance sheet of the Fed. The money that “flowed” into asset markets here and abroad came from us, not the Fed, as our risk appetites increased. It was virtually impossible for the Fed to have gauged ex-ante the magnitude of our psychological response to its easing. But because the market response has been so large yet the economy is still far from where the Fed would have hoped to see it by this point in time, the weaning of market psychology off of the Fed teat now has to be handled in a balanced and incremental fashion. Signaling will play a central role in this process. Read the full post &gt;
But as it turns out, Li’s preferred economic yardsticks actually do a pretty good job of picking up coming shifts in the official measure of the Chinese economy’s growth. Doubts about the utility of the official GDP measure aside, the numbers that come out of China’s statistics bureau still move markets and inform economists’ thinking about what is happening in the world’s second-largest economy. In other words, the official data still matter, and an early read on where they’re going can be a critical insight. When Credit Suisse analysts tracked the quarterly change in the premier’s three favored economic measures in a forward-looking indicator they called the Li Keqiang Momentum Index (LKMI), they found that the index correlated better with China’s GDP growth than two of China’s most closely watched forward-looking indicators – the purchasing managers’ index survey results generated separately by HSBC and China’s National Bureau of Statistics.  Image courtesy of Credit Suisse. It’s an especially good sign, then, that the LKMI shows that the slowdown in Chinese growth that has been making investors the world over nervous for the past year seems to have come to an end in the second quarter. “We believe the Chinese economy has bottomed,” Credit Suisse Chief Economist for Non-Japan Asia Dong Tao wrote in a recent report. “The upward momentum may not be strong, but stabilization itself would be good news, given how bearish market participants appear to be about China’s outlook.” Image courtesy of Credit Suisse. Tao said that all three of the LKMI’s indicators have started to gather steam in the third quarter, which reflects the positive news the economist and his team of analysts have been hearing anecdotally: Corporations report that sales are improving – though Tao said there appears to be no specific catalyst – and order flows remained high even in July and August, which are usually slow months. Tao also said that banks are speeding up the pace at which they approve loans for a growing number of infrastructure projects, prompted by the Chinese government’s announcement in July that it would pump more money into urban infrastructure and railways in order to facilitate economic output. Image courtesy of Credit Suisse. But as the improvements are relatively new, it is worth asking whether they are here to stay or just a blip in the data. The answer, Credit Suisse’s economists said, is the former. But that doesn’t come without a caveat: “Bleeding has stopped,” they noted. “But surgery is still needed.” First, the bleeding. The government’s crackdown on the country’s frothy housing market should soon ease – or at least not expand – potentially providing a boost to the rest of the economy, Tao explained. In an effort earlier this year to address what Credit Suisse analysts have previously described as a property bubble, Chinese officials raised the required down payment on new homes and slapped a 20 percent capital gains tax on home sales. In May, the government delayed approvals for pre-sale permits, which are permission slips to sell homes that are still under construction. But Tao said that the government’s stance may be softening, and that brisk land sales mean that construction could soon pick up as well. “Beijing no longer considers the housing sector as a source of risk, but a pillar to growth,” Tao wrote. While it’s still possible that the government could experiment with a property tax, he said, limitations on people buying apartments in cities in which they do not live will probably fall by the wayside. Local governments are also getting back into the spending groove. When China unleashed a $586 billion fiscal stimulus package during the global financial crisis in 2009, local governments were responsible for providing $180 billion worth of the infrastructure spending. But concerns soon started to emerge about the size and sustainability of local government debts, and then local infrastructure activity paused while the Chinese political leadership was going through a once-a-decade changeup that began in November and ended in March. Recently, the Chinese government prodded local governments to get the investment machine running again, and Tao pointed to a number of new bank-supported projects, especially to build new subways and railways, as evidence that the prodding was having the intended effect. Finally, in a theme Credit Suisse analysts have visited before, the fact that economic conditions are improving in the U.S., Europe and Japan – all important customers for Chinese goods – will be a positive for Chinese exports. Tao did caution, however, that the capital flight wreaking havoc in the emerging markets to which China also sends plenty of goods will likewise be a negative. “None of the new supports to growth are robust,” Tao wrote. But they should at the very least keep things in China from getting much worse. Now, the surgery. To set China on a path to sustainable long-term growth, the government must push through structural reforms that encourage private investment, Tao said. It could start by opening up China’s service sector and cutting corporate taxes. More ambitious initiatives would include breaking up the banking monopoly and scrapping the hukou system, a household registration system that makes it difficult for the waves of migrants who flock to China’s cities from the countryside to access healthcare and education. Such fundamental reforms are absolutely critical to China’s future growth because the current economic drivers – sky-high real estate inflation and local governments drowning themselves in debt to build more than they need – are tottering along on a high-wire that looks increasingly shaky. “Until structural reforms re-engage private investment, the growth is ‘buying time’ because [both] the current housing rally…and local government investments are unsustainable,” Tao wrote. The Communist Party holds a plenary session in October that could result in the announcement of some broad reform goals, but probably not concrete policy actions, he said. For that, China and investors will have to wait. “We believe that the Xi-Li regime (General Secretary Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang) is committed to reform, but detailed structural reforms may not arrive as soon as October,” Tao wrote. Hard work lies ahead for Chinese officials to create the conditions necessary for stable, long-term growth, but at least China’s recent decline seems to have run its course.
Reuters/Peter BarnesAustralia's national broadcaster said that conservative Tony Abbott appeared to have secured a decisive victory against incumbent prime minister Kevin Rudd, according to preliminary results. The Australian Broadcasting Corporation on Saturday called a clear win for the Abbott-led conservative opposition over Mr Rudd's Labour in national polls. "The coalition is on a pretty secure 74 seats already. On that basis they're going to get a majority. I think we can say the government has been defeated," Antony Green, the state broadcaster's election analyst, said. The apparent victory by Australia’s British-born opposition leader would mark a dramatic return to power for the conservative Liberal-National party after six years of shaky Labour rule. Mr Abbott presented a stable alternative to Labour, which has been racked by years of infighting and leadership turmoil. Mr Rudd has only been in office for three months after defeating Julia Gillard, Australia’s first female prime minister, in a leadership challenge. Ms Gillard ousted Mr Rudd as leader during his first term in 2010. Though Mr Abbott ran a strong campaign, Australians have not yet completely warmed to him. A former popular Labour prime minister, Bob Hawke, said on Saturday: "I'm not trying to denigrate the good campaign that Tony ran, but I really believe that this was an election that was lost by the government more than one that was won by the opposition." Mr Abbott, 55, has long been regarded as a somewhat comical figure and was widely believed by many – including several of his party colleagues - to be unelectable. His frequent appearances in tight-fitting budgie smugglers, or swimming costumes, or in tight-fitting cycling gear only added to his image as a macho, buffoonish brawler. Before he voted on Saturday, he expressed regret that he not been able to surf. “You will be pleased to know I am in a suit not in budgie smugglers [swimming costumes]," he told Channel Nine. "I wish I was out in the waves. It is a nice swell for an elderly long boarder." Despite longstanding concerns about his attitudes to women, he has pledged one of the world’s most generous parental leave schemes and has frequently appeared during the campaign alongside his two younger daughters, Frances, 22, and Bridget, 20. Mr Abbott has vowed he will scrap Labour’s carbon and mining taxes, cut the budget deficit, reduce foreign aid, boost defence spending and take a tough stance towards asylum seekers. He wants to pay rewards to young unemployed people who find work and plans to travel to an Aboriginal community for a week each year to govern from the outback. “We will be a no surprises, no excuses government because you are sick of nasty surprises,” he said at his campaign launch on August 25. 
With the release of the August employment report we can update the unemployment rate chart that I'm using to track when the Fed will start tapering the QE3 purchases. The September FOMC meeting is on the 17th and 18th. The employment report was the last key data that will be released before the September FOMC meeting. At the June FOMC press conference, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said: "If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this forecast, the Committee currently anticipates that it would be appropriate to moderate the monthly pace of purchases later this year. And if the subsequent data remain broadly aligned with our current expectations for the economy, we would continue to reduce the pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half of next year, ending purchases around midyear. In this scenario, when asset purchases ultimately come to an end, the unemployment rate would likely be in the vicinity of 7%, with solid economic growth supporting further job gains, a substantial improvement from the 8.1% unemployment rate that prevailed when the committee announced this program." The first graph is for the unemployment rate. Click on graph for larger image. Calculated Risk The current forecast is for the unemployment rate to decline to 7.2% to 7.3% in Q4 2013. We only have data through August, and so far the unemployment rate is tracking at the bottom of the forecast (lower is better).  However, in July, Bernanke said that the unemployment rate "probably understates the weakness of the labor market." He suggested he is watching other employment indicators too, and I think the decline in the participation rate offsets the decline in the unemployment rate. The second graph is for GDP. Calculated Risk The current forecast is for GDP to increase between 2.3% and 2.6% from Q4 2012 to Q4 2013. Combined the first and second quarter were below the FOMC projections. GDP would have to increase at a 2.8% annual rate in the 2nd half to reach the FOMC lower projection, and at a 3.3% rate to reach the higher projection. The third graph is for PCE prices. Calculated Risk The current forecast is for prices to increase 0.8% to 1.2% from Q4 2012 to Q4 2013. So far PCE prices are close to this projection - however this projection is significantly below the FOMC target of 2%. Clearly the FOMC expects inflation to pickup, and a key is if the recent decline in inflation is "transitory". PCE prices wouldn't have to increase much over the next five months to reach the upper FOMC projection. The fourth graph is for core PCE prices  Calculated Risk The current forecast is for core prices to increase 1.2% to 1.3% from Q4 2012 to Q4 2013. So far core PCE prices are below this projection - and, once again, this projection is significantly below the FOMC target of 2%. It now looks the year-end data might be "broadly consistent" with the June FOMC projections.  However I think the decline in the participation rate will factor into the discussions.
Sure, the White House can argue, as economic adviser Jason Furman did right after the report’s release, that the “incoming economic data broadly suggest that the recovery continues to make progress.”  But consider the following: 1. This was the jobs report that was supposed to reflect an economy kicking into higher gear. Goldman Sachs, for instance, was looking for 200,000 net new jobs. And whisper estimates were even higher. Instead, the economy added just 169,000 jobs vs. the 180,000 consensus forecast. 2. What’s more, June and July were revised down by 74,000 jobs, putting the three-month average at a paltry 148,000. 3. Even at 169,000 jobs a month, it would take an unbelievable 9 years and 10 months to return to pre-Great Recession employment levels, according to Brookings. See you in 2023 — assuming no recessions between now and then. 4. Sure, the unemployment rate fell to 7.3%. But that’s only because the labor force participation rate fell to a 35-year low. If it were still at January 2009 levels, the unemployment rate would be 10.8%. As RDQ Economics cautions, “This continued fall in participation should give pause to those who argue that the decline is cyclical and will be reversed.” In other words, the US faces a permanently larger pool of jobless Americans. AEI 5. The employment rate — the share of the non-incarcerated, non-military working-age population with any job — also fell and remains dead, dead in the water. (See above chart). One reason for that, notes the Economic Policy Institute is “our 3.8 million “missing workers … workers who have dropped out of, or never entered, the labor force due to weak job opportunities in the Great Recession and its aftermath.” If they were in the labor force looking for work, the unemployment rate would be 9.5% instead of 7.3%. 6. Recall that according to the Obama White House’s 2009 stimulus forecast, August 2013 should have been the 2nd straight month at 5% unemployment: AEI 7. The median unemployment duration actually increased to 16.4 weeks from 15.7 weeks in July, while the share of the unemployed without work for 27 weeks and longer jumped to 37.9% from 37.0%. There are 3 million more long-term unemployed today — four years after the end of the recession — than before the recession. 8. Worst of all, this jobs report could be a signal that the US economy is not about to accelerate as many are forecasting. IHS Global Insight: This report confirms our outlook of lackluster economic growth for the second half of the year.  The headline establishment survey number, 169,000 jobs, more or less continues a trend over the past several months, as does the downward tick in the unemployment rate.  …  There are other negative aspects of this report from the household survey.  While this survey is considered to be a less precise measure of employment on a month-to-month basis, total employment fell by 115,000 in contrast to establishment survey gains. Moreover, the size of the labor force shrank by 312,000 in August, following a smaller decline in July.  Virtually all of this decline can be traced to men; the number of women in the labor force increased in August.  This suggests that much of the decline came from occupations that are male-dominated, such as construction, and that many former workers are becoming discouraged about their job prospects and dropping out of the labor force as a result. 9. Looking at a rolling, 3-month average of job numbers from the more volatile household survey, economist Robert Brusca asks, “Where did the full time jobs go over the last SEVEN MONTHS?” Bottom line: Yes, the economy is growing, but not at a rate generating very many jobs, either full-time or part-time. The jobs recovery seems to have stalled. It’s not getting better.
