
Fears are growing that Avian Flu (bird flu) could spread in China. As such, Chinese airline stocks are getting massacred. Holy airline stocks! Chinese airlines are tanking in HK today. Bird flu fears? twitter.com/deeCNBC/status‚Ä¶
yoshiffles via FlickrAnalyst Millan Mulraine of TD Securities writes: Even though the official market consensus forecast for todayís payrolls report has now fallen slightly below our forecast of 195K to 190K, recent positioning in the markets (captured by the dramatic rally in Treasures) suggests that the ìwhisper numberî may be for something far weakerócloser to 150K. In fact, the forecast revisions in the Bloomberg survey over the past two days have ranged between 124K and 190K, with a median entry of 175K, well below the consensus forecast of 200K at the beginning of the week. While some of the move lower in yields is attributable to the geopolitical concerns on the Korean peninsula, the last leg down in employment expectations and yields has come following the unexpected sharp rise in the pace of weekly jobless claims, which showed the biggest weekly gain since November. For a full guide to tomorrow's jobs report, see Matthew Boesler's preview here.
Legendary investor George Soros is in Hong Kong for the INET conference. He took a few minutes to speak with CNBC's Bernie Lo. "Reports say you made a billion dollar shorting the yen," Lo said.† "What are you trying to do? Break the Bank of Japan?" "I think the Bank of Japan is eager to have people do that," joked Soros. On Thursday, the BoJ's Haruhiko Kuroda announced extremely aggressive monetary policy, an effort to stimulate Japan's stagnant economy. "It is a sensation because he broke some of the monetary taboos," said Soros about Kuroda.† "It's a very daring undertaking." He continued by discussing how to fight deflation. "In the conditions of deflation that Japan has been in in the last 25 years, one way to break that is to have monetary policy, which buys in the market government bonds and the government providing fiscal stimulus so that it effectively doesn't increase the debt outstanding," explained Soros.† "Because what the government sells in bonds on one hand, the bank buys with the other hand.† The government owns the bank. That doesn't increase the debt." "But if it stimulates the economy, using unused resources, then the economy grows," he said.† "If you go to Japan, you will find people are quite excited." Soros, however, warned that Japan's efforts to devalue the yen is risky. "What Japan is doing right now is actually quite dangerous because they are doing it after 25 years of just simply accumulating deficits and not getting the economy growing," he explained.† "So if what they're doing gets something started, they might not be able to stop it.† If the yen starts to fall, which it has done, then people in Japan think it's liable to continue, and will want to put their money abroad.† The fall may become like an avalanche.† You can start it.† [But you may not be able to stop it.]" Lo followed up by asking if that could actually happen because the Japanese may think that they've already missed their opportunity to invest abroad. Soros explained that people really aren't convinced that the yen sell-off is over. "Nobody believed Kuroda would have the courage to do what he did," he said.† "The amount of quantitative easing that he's introducing is the same as in the United States, but Japan is only one-third the size.† So it's three time more powerful than what's happening in the U.S." Soros later noted that it was interesting what Europe was doing. "The fascinating thing is that in Europe, the austerity program, is leading them into the same policy that Japan is now trying to escape after 25 years," he said. Click here to watch the video &gt;
Both Sides of the Table A few months ago, on Sunday, January 27, an entrepreneur named Jody Sherman had plans to see a movie with a friend. But that afternoon, the friend received a call from Jody's wife, Kerri. Jody had gone missing. Three hours later, Kerri notified the Las Vegas Police Department, fearing something might have happened to her husband. At 11:12 PM, the police found Sherman's body. He was in his car on Witch Mountain Road, near Mount Charleston, Nevada, about 25 miles from Las Vegas. Sherman had been shot in the head. The Clark County coroner's office determined that Sherman had killed himself. It was five days before his 48th birthday. News of Sherman's suicide ripped through Twitter and the technology blogs. His death left thousands aching and confused. He left no note. His last Facebook message was written by his wife: ‚ÄúThis is Jody‚Äôs final post, and it isn‚Äôt coming from Jody. He‚Äôs gone. This is not a bit of his wonderful twisted humor. This is sad and real and forever. He didn‚Äôt say goodbye to anyone because he knew he couldn‚Äôt. So I‚Äôm saying it for him. If you are reading this it‚Äôs because you are connected to Jody in some way. He loved you, respected you, admired you, valued your presence in his life, or felt some combination of any or all of these things. And he would want each and every one of you to know and understand exactly that. Please post anything you have to say to or about Jody here.‚Äù Just a few days after Sherman's suicide, his company, Ecomom, had a board meeting in which his co-founder and the board found the startup in a startling state. A couple of weeks later, Ecomom closed its doors. The prosaic reason: The company's liabilities were greater than its assets. Put more simply, Ecomom was broke.¬†The 28-person startup ‚Äî which had just raised $5 million six months earlier and more than $12 million total ‚Äî ran out of cash. And no one left at the company seemed to know where it had gone. Over the past six weeks, we have interviewed more than a dozen people close to Jody Sherman and his startup about what happened in those final months. They're colleagues, friends, advisors, investors and confidantes. Many of them spoke on the condition of anonymity. All are shocked by what happened. Many feel duped. And everyone was left wondering: Who was Jody Sherman? And what happened in the last few months of his life that caused it to end so tragically?
This is shaping up to be a HUGE session in Japan. After the Bank of Japan announced a big new easing program yesterday, the Nikkei is soaring and the yen is weakening. Here are the key charts. The top is Nikkei. The second is the dollar vs. the yen, which seems to be heading towards 100. Nikkei.com The general view of things is that the Bank of Japan has really committed itself to hitting an inflation target, and buying the necessary assets to do so. Here's a look at some big movers, via Deirdre Wang Morris. @deecnbc
Flickr / Christopher ChanKiyomizu-dera Temple, KyotoThe Asian markets opened minutes ago, and Japan's stock market is going nuts. The Nikkei is up over 4 percent as the yen continues to tank. This all comes after yesterday's Bank of Japan meeting where Hirohiko Kuroda delivered shock and awe with extraodinarily easy monetary policy. Bloomberg BRIEF economist Michael McDonough notes that this is the first time the yen has fallen below 97 per dollar since August 2009.¬† It's also the first time the Nikkei has been above 13,000 since August 2008. Check out the charts: Nikkei
Flickr / quinn.anyaGoldman Sachs macro analysts Noah Weisberger and¬†Aleksandar Timcenko are out with a new presentation on the state of the global economy. The title: "Slipping into slowdown." According to the data, it looks like the global recovery story may be on hold for now, and markets around the world are not sending encouraging signals. And some of the most important positive themes are being called into question. Note: Thanks to Goldman for allowing us to run slides from this presentation.
Wall Street's top equity strategists typically don't offer a price target for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Rather they opt to predict the direction of the S&amp;P 500. However, it's possible to derive an implied target for the Dow based on analysts' forecasts for the Dow's constituents. Stock market guru Laszlo Birinyi does just that. "Using major analysts' price targets, Wall Street now expects the DJIA to rise 5.6% to 15,485 over the next twelve months," says Birinyi. "This compares to a previous target of 14,570 as of December 31st." The Dow closed at 14,606 today. Here's the raw data Birinyi uses. Ticker Sense
Getty Images/Spencer PlattA former Thomson Reuters employee says he was fired after he warned federal authorities his company was tipping market reports, Bloomberg's David Glovin reports. Mark Rosenblum said in a complaint filed Thursday in Manhattan federal court that he was fired after he warned the FBI that colleagues "gave some customers an advantage by releasing the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers to them first." Glovin says Rosenblum claims Reuters releases¬†the survey in three tiers: At two seconds before 9:55 a.m., it goes to ‚Äúultra low- latency subscribers‚Äù; ‚Äúdesktop‚Äù subscribers get it at 9:55 a.m.; and at 10 a.m. it goes out to the general public, he said. Rosenblum later told company executives about his complaint to the federal agents, Glovin says.¬†He now seeks damages under U.S. whistleblower laws. Reuters is denying the accusations.
@federalreserveSince the onset of the financial crisis, the Fed has famously engaged in "unconventional" measures to ease monetary policy. Unconventionality has been required, since short term interest rates have dropped to ~0%, and the Fed can't lower rates below that. So it has to try new tools. One tool that's well known is Quantitative Easing, where the Fed tries to lower long-term rates and inject liquidity via the purchase of long-dated bonds. Quantitative Easing (AKA: "QE") gets discussed and analyzed to death. It's very controversial (especially among those who don't understand it), and there's an obsession about what happens when QE runs out. But there's another unconventional tool that hardly gets discussed at all, and yet it's arguably way more powerful. That tool is the power of enhanced communication, where the Fed gives strong guidance about future monetary policy (e.g. how long rates will remain low and what thresholds the Fed is looking to see hit before it considers tightening). It's this second tool -- communication -- that is the subject of a new speech from Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen. She notes that this communication represents a "revolution" in monetary policy. Recently I used the word "revolution" to describe the change from "never explain" to the current embrace of transparency in the FOMC's communication. That might sound surprising to an audience that knows very well what it feels like to be in the middle of a communications revolution. The speed and frequency of most communication, it seems, never stops growing, and I will admit that the FOMC's changes to the pace and form of its communication seem rather modest in comparison. I've mentioned the Chairman's quarterly postmeeting press conferences, which were initiated two years ago. While these events are televised and streamed live, the mode for most of the FOMC's communication is decidedly old-school--the printed word. The Committee's most watched piece of communication is the written statement issued after each of its meetings, which are held roughly every six weeks. It may seem quaint that my colleagues and I continue to spend many hours laboring over the few hundred words in this statement, which are then extensively analyzed only minutes after their release.† The revolution in the FOMC's communication, however, isn't about technology or speed. It's a revolution in our understanding of how communication can influence the effectiveness of monetary policy. So why is communication powerful? Because by telling the private sector how long the Fed will keep conditions as they are, the private sector can react accordingly, and know that if conditions are weak, they don't have to worry about premature tightening. This is a long section of Yellen's speech, but in it she explains how communication augments quantitative easing. It is important to emphasize that the effects of asset purchases also depend on expectations. If the FOMC buys, say, $10 billion in longer-term securities today but is expected to sell them tomorrow or very shortly, there will be little effect on the economy. Current research suggests that the effects of asset purchases today depend on expectations of the total value of securities the FOMC intends to buy and on expectations of how long the FOMC intends to hold those securities. To make these asset purchases as effective as possible in adding accommodation, the FOMC, therefore, needs to communicate the intended path of Federal Reserve securities holdings years into the future. I will return in a moment to current and possible future ways in which the FOMC does and might communicate this information.† The other unconventional policy designed to contribute to monetary easing was almost purely communication--enhanced forward guidance about how long the Committee expects to maintain the federal funds rate near zero. The situation in early 2009 was similar to 2003 but even more challenging, because in that earlier episode, the FOMC at least retained the option of a further reduction in the federal funds rate target. In 2009, communication about the future path of the federal funds rate was the only option.† Initially, the forward guidance was simple and familiar: The FOMC statement noted that "economic conditions are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period." The Committee enhanced its forward guidance in August 2011, when it substituted "at least through mid-2013" for the words "an extended period." This date was moved into the future several times, most recently last September, when it was shifted to mid-2015. This "calendar guidance" was an advance over the indefinite "extended period," but it suffered from an important limitation. The date failed to provide the public with a clear understanding of what conditions the FOMC was trying to achieve or the economic conditions that would warrant a continuation of the policy. As a consequence, it was hard for the public to tell whether a change in the calendar date reflected a shift in policy or a change in the Committee's economic forecast.† To help provide greater clarity about the Committee's objectives, in January 2012, the FOMC adopted and released a statement of its longer-run goals and monetary policy strategy. This statement laid out, for the first time, the rates of inflation and unemployment that the FOMC considers consistent with the dual mandate. Specifically, it stated that the longer-run inflation goal most consistent with the FOMC's price stability mandate is 2 percent, and that the central tendency of FOMC participants' estimates of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment ranged from 5.2 to 6 percent.† As the statement also made clear, economic developments may cause inflation and unemployment to temporarily move away from the objectives, and the Committee will use a balanced approach to return both, over time, to the longer-run goals. On the one hand, for example, the current rate of unemployment, at 7.7 percent, is far above the 5.2 to 6 percent range in the statement and is expected to decline only gradually. Inflation, on the other hand, has been running at or below 2 percent and is expected to remain at similar levels for several years. In this circumstance, both legs of the dual mandate call for a highly accommodative monetary policy. With unemployment so far from its longer-run normal level, I believe progress on reducing unemployment should take center stage for the FOMC, even if maintaining that progress might result in inflation slightly and temporarily exceeding 2 percent. The Committee reaffirmed this statement in January 2013, and I expect it to remain a valuable roadmap for many years to come, indicating how monetary policy will respond to changes in economic conditions.11†† Meanwhile, the FOMC has continued to enhance its communication about how it would use the federal funds rate to return inflation and unemployment to its longer-run objectives. Last December, the Committee replaced its calendar guidance for the federal funds rate with quantitative measures of economic conditions that would warrant continuing that rate at its current very low level. Specifically, the Committee said it anticipates that exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate will be appropriate "at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored." I consider these thresholds for possible action a major improvement in forward guidance. They provide much more information than before about the conditions that are likely to prevail when the FOMC decides to raise the federal funds rate. As for the date at which tightening of monetary policy is likely to occur, market participants, armed with this new information about the Committee's "reaction function," can form their own judgment and alter their expectations on timing as new information accrues over time.† These thresholds will, as a consequence, allow private-sector expectations of the federal funds rate to fulfill an important "automatic stabilizer" function for the economy. If the recovery is stronger than expected, the public should anticipate that one or both of the threshold values will be crossed sooner and, hence, that the federal funds rate could be raised earlier. Conversely, if the outlook for the economy unexpectedly worsens, the public should expect a later "liftoff" in rates--an expectation that would reduce longer-term interest rates and thereby provide more-accommodative financial conditions. Read the full speech here ---&gt;
Tomorrow's employment report is the major economic event of the week and one of the most closely watched indicators every month. The primary focus is on two items: The number of new jobs, based on the Establishment Survey (a monthly survey of businesses), and the unemployment rate, based on the Current Population Survey (a monthly survey of households). There are, however, many additional metrics in the employment report. The data series I personally find most fascinating is the Labor Force Participation Rate. It's a measure of the Civilian Labor Force (employed or looking for employment) divided by the Non-institutionalized Civilian Population (excluding children under 16, the military and those institutionalized). But what makes this series especially interesting is wide range of trends we can analyze based on various subcategories. Let's take a moment to study the labor force participation rate (LFPR) by age cohorts. The earliest year for which the Bureau of Labor Statistics has participation rate data for all 5-year cohorts shown in the charts below is 1987, hence that start date in the first chart. All three charts illustrate the total growth in the participation rate for each age group based on annual data. As we readily see, the three fastest growers by far are the three oldest, with the 70-74 group up an amazing 91.2%. The rate for ages 75 and older (the one cohort that covers more than five years) is up 81.0%. In third place, with a 64.6% increase, is the age 65-69. In fact, these three outliers are precisely the three cohorts that fall under the unflattering heading of "Elderly" in the common parlance of demographers, who, for example, study the Elderly Dependency Ratio (aka "Old-Age Ratio"), which is the 65-plus population divided by the productive age population younger than 65. The next chart zooms in a bit, showing the same data, but starting in 1995, just as the roaring '90s were taking off. My use of the phrase Roaring '90s is largely prompted by the acceleration in equity prices that started in the middle of that decade, as is quite apparent on a log-scale chart of the S&amp;P 500. It was about two years into this boom that Alan Greenspan, then Chairman of the Federal Reserve, immortalized the phrase "irrational exuberance". First a quick look at the relative trajectory of years 1995 to 2000 in the S&amp;P 500. Here now is a snapshot of the LFPR growth for our cohorts since 1995. From this starting point, the participation growth for the six oldest cohorts is in age order, the older the group, the greater the increase. The LFPR for the 50-54 age group was essentially unchanged (up a mere 0.6%). The rate for the five cohorts from age 25 to 49 all shrank by almost exactly the same amount; the range was -2.4% to -2.6%. The next chart starts with the turn of the century. Here we see that the 50-54 age group joins the younger cohorts in shrinking participation. Incidentally, earnings data tells us that the two five-year cohorts from 45-54 are typically the peak earning years for US households (more here). Since 2000 the LFPR for the 50-54 group is down 1.9% and 3.3% for the 45-49 group. It's clear from the charts above that we elderly (yes, I'm one of the youngster in that crowd) are working longer. And of course these statistics also include many retirees who have returned to the work force. What are the key drivers of the LFPR changes? They are many, complex and interrelated. My non-scholarly perspective would include the following: There are, of course, other factors, but these are the ones that immediately come to my mind. The Difference of 25 Years The charts above have focused on the growth (or shrinkage) in the participation rate by age group. I'll close with a side-by-side comparison of the LFPR 25 years ago to the most recent annual data. We watch the monthly employment report for clues about where the economy is headed, largely oblivious to the fact that most of the data is subject to substantial revisions. But more fascinating by far are the broader trends that are defining a major aspect of the American experience ‚Äî the role of work in our collective life cycle. See also my earlier LFPR study of broader cohorts with some gender breakdowns:
ReutersClosely-followed hedge fund manager John Paulson's Paulson &amp; Co. posted gains so far this year after getting crushed in 2012 and 2011.¬† The Wall Street Journal's Juliet Chung reports:¬† Mr. Paulson's long-troubled Advantage funds have positive returns for the year through March. The Advantage fund was up 2.9% for the year off a 5.6% gain in March, and the Advantage Plus fund was up 3.6% for the year including a 7.6% gain last month. The funds were among the worst-performing funds last year and in 2011, when the Advantage Plus fund lost roughly half its value. The gold fund isn't doing so hot though. ¬†It was down 27.9% for the year, according to the WSJ citing an unnamed investor.¬†
The 4 Stages Of A Bubble (The Geography Of Transport Systems via Barry Ritholtz) "Bubbles (financial manias) unfold in several stages," writes Jean-Paul Rodrigue of Hofstra University. But they go through four distinct stages. 1. Stealth - "The "smart money" gets invested in the asset class, often quietly and cautiously," as prices rise but " often completely unnoticed by the general population." 2. Awareness - Many investors and the media begin to notice the rise in prices. 3. Mania - During this phase everyone notices and is jumping in, while the institutional investors begin to pull out. "This phase is however not about logic, but a lot about psychology." 4. Blow-off - "A moment of epiphany (a trigger) arrives and everyone roughly at the same time realize that the situation has changed." The Geography Of Transport Systems/Hofstra University Bank Of America Is Targeting Small Investors (The Wall Street Journal) Bank of America thinks small investors (i.e. those with between $50,000 and $250,000 to invest) think this pool of investors could be a "big new profit source," according to the WSJ.¬† Merrill Edge, an online brokerage, is targeting small investors. ¬†Merrill Lynch advisors are working with those with $250,000 - $10 million in investible assets.¬† And those with over $10 million are with Merrill's Private Banking and Investment Group. Kyle Bass Thinks Investors Buying Japanese Stocks Are Just Macro Tourists (CNBC) Hedge fund manager Kyle Bass is bearish on the yen and expects Japan to lose control of its bond markets. For those diving into Japanese stocks Bass says: "There's really no great prescription here to "profiteer" from what is going on in Japan. I think it's really important, if you run a global portfolio, or you have a global investment portfolio of your own, it's really important to just not be long yen, and not be long Japanese assets. "I know there are some people that own Japanese equities in this Pavlovian response to "weaker yen, buy equities," but you have to remember: the Japanese industry has been hollowed out over the last 20 years, very similar to how the U.S. industrial complex was hollowed out in the 1970s.¬† "So, I think it's going to be very disappointing for those who own those equities, and I kind of think they are 'macro tourists'." Stocks Are Being Driven By 'Cheap Leverage' (Barron's) "Ketchup rather than blood is pumping through the market's veins," writes David Goldman, president of Macrostrategy in Barron's. "Our theme for some time is that the rise in stock prices is explained better by cheap leverage than by growth expectations. Investors are levering annuity-like cash flows from stable companies, above all in the consumer sectors." The -1.5 percent yield on the five-year Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) is hard to accept as economists get more optimistic about U.S. economic growth. All signs point to a slower pace of growth. The Stock Market Pattern That Keeps Investors Up At Night (JP Morgan Funds) This chart from JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly shows the S&amp;P 500 index at various inflection points. As the stock market has hit record highs, some are wondering when it will correct and this chart shows that in the last 15 years after tremendous rallies, they have fallen precipitously.  JP Morgan Funds
monsieur paradis on flickrLess than two weeks left to fund your 2012 IRA, so I‚Äôm continuing my series on these maddeningly humble, but potentially interesting, retirement accounts. But, to get caught up, please see earlier posts on¬†The Humble IRA, IRAs don‚Äôt matter to high income people¬†and¬†A rebuttal: The curious case of Mitt Romney ¬† The Roth IRA boasts a few magical advantages over the traditional IRA, but the most interesting one has to do with intergenerational wealth transfer. Being a grandparent with some wealth to pass on to worthy heirs involves a seeming Catch-22: How can we give our sweet, beautiful, grandchildren easy money but still help them avoid the hookers and cocaine? I have no suggestions for you with respect to the latter problems, but the Roth IRA can really help with the wealth transfer part, in a simple, low-cost way. What‚Äôs unique is that the Roth IRA‚Äôs super-simple, low-cost, inter-generational wealth transfer tool otherwise doesn‚Äôt exist for middle-income folks.[1] ¬† How the Roth IRA differs from the Traditional IRA on mandatory minimum distributions With a traditional IRA, a retiree must begin withdrawing funds after age 70.5, in proportion to her age.¬† The formula for distributions, in fact, is calculated as Mandatory Distribution = Account Balance divided by Life Expectancy. A 75 year-old retiree with $200,000 in a traditional IRA who has a 13.4 year life expectancy ‚Äì¬†according to IRS document 590 ‚ÄúAppendix C‚Äù in the hyperlinked document here[2]¬†‚Äì must withdraw $14,925.37 this year, the result of dividing $200,000 by 13.4. This is fine for people who need the money in retirement, although unfortunately withdrawals from the IRA account will be taxed as ordinary income.[3] But for a retiree who does not need the money, and who would rather pass on as much money as possible to her heirs, the Roth IRA has a huge advantage over the traditional IRA because the Roth does not mandate any distributions during the retiree‚Äôs lifetime. Thus, a Roth IRA can grow larger and for longer than a traditional IRA.¬† If the retiree chooses, she can eschew distributions from Roth IRA altogether until the account passes to her young heir. ¬† Why does this matter so much?¬† The magic trick of the Roth IRA is that, while annual distributions must begin immediately for heirs, a retiree may select a very young heir to inherit the Roth IRA, such as a grandchild or great-grandchild. What that means is that annual ‚Äòrequired distributions‚Äô are very small, especially in the beginning, so that¬†the account itself may become a kind of perpetual source of tax-free income¬†for a child who inherits the Roth IRA. ¬† Can I get an example please? A concrete example helps illustrate the magic involved. Our 75-year old retiree named a young beneficiary, say, 5 years old to inherit the Roth IRA with $200,000 in it. I assume the deceased retiree‚Äôs total estate assets total less than the $5.25 million estate tax exemption, so her $200,000 Roth IRA passes estate-tax free to the child. After the 5-year old child inherits the Roth IRA, minimum distributions must begin. But the minimum distribution amount will be quite small, calculated again as the ratio of the account balance divided by expected life of the beneficiary.¬† Since a 5 year-old has an expected life of 77.7 years ‚Äì¬†again, according to this IRS appendix¬†‚Äì the minimum income distribution from the account is just $2,574, or $200,000 divided by 77.8.[4] Now, $2,574 in income is a small, good, thing for a 5 year-old to have, but that‚Äôs not the real point of the magical Roth IRA.¬† The real point is that the income will grow over time under¬†ordinary compound interest¬†conditions.¬† Since compound interest is, as we know,the greatest power in the known universe, this acorn of a Roth IRA carries within itself oak tree potential. ¬† Financial Sustainability! You see, the key point is that the minimum distribution to a 5 year-old kid is just 1.29% of the principal.¬† If the account can earn something close to a historical rate of return on long-term investments, let‚Äôs say 5%, then that Roth IRA grows significantly over time.¬† The gift just keeps getting better as the child grows up, for the rest of her life. As I wrote before, one of the¬†hardest parts about financial sustainability¬†is that the percentage allowable distribution ‚Äì typically 4% or 5% ‚Äì might just reduce principal in a low-return environment like we‚Äôve experienced lately, and at least runs a high risk of diminished purchasing power.[5]¬† This is a problem every foundation, school, hospital or individual retiree worries about right now, because distribution amounts are too high for the cumulative returns we‚Äôve seen in the past decade, and the risk-free returns achievable now. But the Roth IRA minimum distribution amount for young heirs, on the contrary, is utterly, awesomely, magically, sustainable. ¬†As a result, all throughout this period, the odds are very good that the Roth IRA will grow in value in the long run, assuming the account is invested in an ordinary market, earning ordinary returns per year. The lucky Roth IRA heir Let‚Äôs follow this lucky 5-year old heir through time, as a beneficiary of the original $200,000 Roth IRA. At 25 years old, the heir to the Roth IRA has a 58.2 year expected remaining life, and still would have to withdraw only 1.72% of principal. ¬†¬†After receiving tax free income distributions for 20 years,[6]¬†assuming a 5% return on investments, the account is now worth $413,255 and the annual distribution has increased to $6,874. When our beneficiary of the Roth IRA reaches 50 years old, with a 34.2 year expected remaining life, she may¬†still¬†withdraw only 2.92% of account principal.¬† Her inherited Roth IRA has grown to $815,005, and the annual draw is now up to $23,345, again¬†tax free. Not until the young beneficiary lives past age 66 ‚Äì with a life expectancy of 20.2 years, do the Roth IRA minimum distributions go above 5%, the traditional threshold for financial sustainability. By the time she reaches her own retirement age of 65 years old, the account is worth just shy of $1 million ‚Äì more precisely $978,629 by my calculations ‚Äì all assuming the minimum required distribution and a pedestrian 5% return every year. Under this scenario of a 5% market return and minimum distributions, the lucky Roth IRA heir has taken home $957,344 in income over 60 years, paid no income tax on that money, and now controls an account worth $978,629. As that guy from¬†Entourage¬†would say,¬†is that something you might be interested in? ¬† Could it be larger?¬† Absolutely Just to dream a little bigger for a moment, what if the Roth IRA returns 7% per year over that period? Why then, that lucky heir took home $2,274,512 in tax free income between ages 5 and 65, and at age 65 she controls an account worth $3,174,599.[7] In sum, the US Congress created a perpetual tax-free money machine for inter-generational wealth transfers when it created the Roth IRA. And it‚Äôs available to moderate income folks who can manage to accumulate significant assets in their Roth IRA. ¬† Please see earlier posts on¬†The Humble IRA IRAs don‚Äôt matter to high income people A rebuttal: The curious case of Mitt Romney And the upcoming post ‚Äì The DIY movement and the IRA ¬† [1]¬†At the higher level of inter-generational wealth transfer planning, we‚Äôve got a myriad of tools involving trusts, foundations, and tax-advantaged vehicles for estate planning.¬† The estate tax exemption at $5.25 million sets the floor for diving heavily into this kind of legal, financial, and tax advice.¬† For the lower end of the market, however, the Roth IRA can be a really cool, nearly free, tool.¬† Kind of like using Google Calendar instead of having a personal assistant.¬† Or something. [2]¬†Start with the chart that begins on page 6 of the IRS document. [3]¬†An ordinary income tax rate will typically be worse than the 20% tax rate that might apply for long-term capital gains one might have in a non-IRA investment account full of appreciated stocks.¬† One of the tax-inefficient features of IRAs.¬† Which is why¬†Mitt Romney‚Äôs (up to) $100 million IRA¬†is not as sweet as it sounds.¬† What I really mean is, it‚Äôs sweet, but not as tax-efficient as it sounds. [4]¬†Another neat feature of this $2,574 is that its tax free because of the Roth IRA, although very few 5 year-old children would otherwise have any reason to worry about income taxes, so it‚Äôs kind of irrelevant to the example.¬† I guess little Shirley Temple or Drew Barrymore-type working kids would have benefitted from this income-tax free feature of the inherited Roth IRA. [5]¬†What I mean is that if inflation runs at 2%, and you spend 5% every year because that‚Äôs the mandated endowment draw, your market returns have to consistently beat 7% (5+2!) just to maintain your purchasing power at a steady state.¬† When risk-free bonds return 6% or more ‚Äì as they did until 2000 and the 50 years before that -¬† a blended risky/riskless portfolio has a decent chance of clearing the 7% hurdle.¬† When risk-free bonds return 0.5% to 2% as they do now, you have to put all of your portfolio in risky assets to have any chance at achieving long-term sustainability with your endowment, or with your retiree savings.¬† Which is kind of uncomfortable, I think.¬†¬†I discuss this further here. [6]¬†A total, in this example, of $85,456 in income. [7]¬†With that kind of Roth IRA account, just blast yourself out of a circus cannon into a whole mattress full of cocaine to celebrate your 65th¬†birthday.¬† Afterwards, remember to gently and respectfully light a jasmin-scented candle for grandma, for her original $200K gift. Post read (250) times.
Stephen DreherSeoul is getting harassed by the North Koreans again, this time over a jointly controlled manufacturing facility. It's a reminder that the two countries never officially ended their conflict, which began in 1950 (only an armistice was signed). Despite the North's history of empty bluster, South Korea is taking all necessary precautions ‚Äî they're now reportedly shopping for bunker-busting bombs from Europe. That may seem natural ‚Äî the South is one of the world's most important marketplaces, and needs to protect their standing. But until around the '90s, they didn't have quite so much to lose from an economic standpoint. With the kind cooperation of flickr user Stephen Dreher, we've compiled a series of striking images of Seoul from the mid-1960s, only a little more than a decade after hostilities had ceased. His descriptions appear beneath each photo. As you'll see, there are plenty of scars still apparent. Here is Dreher's intro: From April 1965 through November 1966 I was stationed with the 38th Ordinance Company at what was then called the Kumo-ri Maintenance Center (Later Camp Kyle) . During that time I bought my first 35mm camera, a Nikon F, and spent a lot of time taking pictures every chance I got - weekends in Seoul, driving to and from Red Cloud, and so on. Like many other GIs, I learned at the craft shop how to develop B&amp;W. I was fortunate to record the last of a special period of Korean history. Soon after I left the country turned from agricultural to industrial and the countryside and old way of life I got to see and photograph vanished.
Flickr / DuncanCurrencies went wild. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,606, +55.7 pts, +0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,559, +6.2 pts, +0.4 percentNASDAQ: 3,224, +6.3 pts, +0.2 percent And now the top stories:
AP PhotoBaroness Carmen Thyssen-BornemiszaOne thing's for sure ‚Äî no one knows where all the world's money is. It can be tucked away in investment vehicles, funneled through holdings companies, sheltered in tax havens... we've heard the stories. It's a huge problem for governments. To better understand the gravity of this situation, journalists from The Guardian, Huffington Post, The BBC joined the¬†International Consortium of Investigative Journalists¬†in sifting through thousands of documents about tax shelters, who owns them, and how they work. You can see the full result over at Huffington Post. The investigators found staggering names and numbers. There are politicians, wanted fraudsters, royals, and heads of dynasties on the list.¬† They use companies like¬†Singapore-based Portcullis TrustNet and BVI-based Commonwealth Trust Limited (CTL) to help them set up offshore investment vehicles. What it all drives home is that this is something that is done. James R. Mellon (of the Mellon banking dynasty) put it this way: ‚ÄúI just heard of a presidential candidate who had a lot of money in the Cayman Islands,‚Äù Mellon, now a British national, said alluding to former U.S. presidential candidate Mitt Romney. ‚ÄúNot everyone who owns off shores is a crook.‚Äù There's a thought.
Flickr / zcopleyIn case you missed it, someone bought a Porsche Cayman S for 300 Bitcoin yesterday. But the real star of the story was Bitpay.com.¬†After all, since they were the ones cashing out the buyer's Bitcoins, they were taking on all the risk.¬† As Bitcoin's value has skyrocketed in recent weeks ‚Äî now $127; about $50 just a month ago ‚Äî lots of people have been highlighting the "crypto-currency's"¬†dangers. Felix Salmon, for instance, believes Bitcoin is not a currency at all, but rather behaves more like a commodity, subject to the same touchy price changes as corn or cotton. Bitcoin's recent flash crashes ‚Äî the result of both technical and malicious failures ‚Äî have only added to the skepticism.¬† Thursday morning, we talked with Bitpay.com's founder, Tony Gallippi to get his take.¬† Speaking to us by phone from his Atlanta office (which was outfitted using Bitcoin-bought supplies, naturally), Gallippi essentially agrees with Salmon, calling Bitcoin an "asset class." As long as its value keeps rising, he said, it will come to be viewed like stocks or real estate. [If it gets up to] $500 and $1,000, it's now usable for people who want to trade in and out of real estate, gold positions, stocks. Someone moving to New Zealand wondering how to get $5 million in gold ... with Bitcoin, they can cash it back out. He added: There's volatility now, the market has it undervalued, so people [who are] trying to do larger transactions, the market can't handle it. But if there are $10 billion worth of Bitcoins in the market, it's not really going to move on market volatility.¬† He does not dismiss the technical concerns, but said there's good reason to believe they will diminish in the coming months.¬†The trust system that underlies Bitcoin has so far proven resilient: The way Bitcoin is designed, there are financial incentives for people to cooperate to use it [rather] than attack it.¬†So we recently saw a situation, it wasn't an attack, there was a technical bug in the software, the value of Bitcoin started to decline, people were scrambling to fix problem, it was their money at stake ... I was pretty impressed with the way they handled it.¬†I think [threats are] starting to diminish now that it's been tested multiple times through different kinds of challenges. Nor does he fear increased regulation. The government continues to recognize Bitpay as a payment processor, treating the service the same way as it would a hotel handling poker chips, he said. He also compared Bitpay to a better version of Visa or American Express. Those firms are currently blocked all over the developing world. Bitcoin faces no such restrictions. If Bitcoin can do international ecommerce, what's its value? I think it depends on how quickly people start adopting it.¬† That growing exposure may be one reason why Bitpay just passed underground or "darknet" website Silk Road as the world's leading Bitcoin processor.
40 years ago today in 1973, the World Trade Center officially opened for business. The Twin Towers quickly became an iconic part of New York's skyline, and were featured in countless movies, pictures, and TV shows. They briefly held the title of world's tallest buildings until the Sears Tower in Chicago opened in 1974. We found some amazing photos from throughout the WTC's history ó take a look below. Groundbreaking for the World Trade Center took place on August 5, 1966. AP Some of the buildings' innovations included the high-speed elevators and sky lobbies. They were the tallest buildings in the world at the time, measuring 1,368 and 1,362 feet and 110 stories each. AP The Towers were completed on April 4, 1973. Major tenants included Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, and the New York Stock Exchange. AP Philippe Petit, a French high wire artist, walked across a tightrope suspended between the Twin Towers in 1974. AP George Willig (left) scaled one of the towers in 1977. Daniel Goodwin (right) followed suit in 1983. AP On February 26, 1993, the World Trade Center was bombed by terrorists with a van loaded with 1,500 pounds of explosives. AP Terrorists attacked the Twin Towers on September 11, 2001, taking down both buildings. The image of the towers burning and collapsing is now an indelible image on the American psyche. AP Four years later on September 6, 2005, construction on the World Trade Center Transportation Hub began. AP One World Trade Center (also known as the Freedom Tower) is scheduled for completion in Fall of this year. It will be one of the tallest buildings in the Western Hemisphere. AP
Flickr/Rosaura OchoaIn the last few weeks Twitter has really crashed Wall Street in a big way. Let's backtrack to the social media site's latest power moves: While Cyprus was collapsing, analysts found that it was¬†one of the only ways to get fast, accurate information.¬†It completely beat the sell-side to the punch.¬† The acknowledgment of that was an informal breakthrough, but now Twitter's power is being officially recognized. This week the SEC ruled that investors and companies should be able to communicate through social media ‚Äî that's partly because they already are. Now today, Bloomberg has completely integrated Twitter into its oh-so-ubiquitous terminal.¬† This is a recognition of the fact that for many traders Twitter is a service they must pay attention to. Of course, not everyone is excited about Wall Street's new romance with social media. ¬†Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway¬†is calling the SEC's new rules to open up corporate communication on social media a "disservice" to investors, according to Bloomberg. However The Oracle is probably too late. CEOs, Wall Street analysts, and investors of all stripes are already tweeting more than ever, so the SEC's new rule¬†allowing the use of social media seems like the next logical step. The change stems from an investigation into the information that Netflix¬†CEO Reed Hasting put on his Facebook page last year. The information was not disclosed in company filings and caused Netflix's stock to increase from $70.45 at the time of the Facebook post to $81.72 at the close of the following trading day. The thing is, you can't put a cat back in a bag. So ultimately, the agency determined that as long as investors know to look at social media for information, and anyone can get access it, corporate America is fine to use sites like Twitter and Facebook to make announcements. And speaking of Twitter, Wall Street now has an easier connection to it than ever before. Bloomberg announced that it completely integrated Twitter into its terminals. If you have one, go use the function 'TWITTER GO' and see what happens. Or you can just check out what pops up in the screenshot below: Bloomberg This is Twitter on Bloomberg. This page allows a user to customize their stream by industry, market, company or Tweeter (people). A user can also make the news flow light or heavy, and perhaps the coolest thing is the "Bloomberg Social Velocity" component. Under that bar (you can't see it in this shot) is a list of companies that are trending for the day. When you click on them, a chart pops up that tracks how much the company is being talked about throughout the day in 30 minute increments. You can also see the Tweets that have been Tweeted about the company. If you're an analyst, you have to love having the ability to see what people are talking about right at your fingertips. If you're a CEO, you should know investors and analysts are watching your company and what's being said about it. If you're Twitter, you're high-fiving everything.
APPresident Barack Obama's disapproval rating has jumped to a new post-election high, according to Gallup's three-day rolling average survey. Obama's disapproval rating spiked two points in the past day, putting his disapproval rating at 48 percent among adults. His approval rating sits at just 47 percent, which also puts his approval-to-disapproval split underwater for just the second time since the election. The latest pitfall comes amid a little more than a month of overall decline for Obama after a post-election honeymoon. At one point in December, Obama's approval-to-disapproval split stood at a high of 58-36. But since mid-February, the gap has narrowed. According to the Real Clear Politics average of polls, Obama's approval-to-disapproval split in eight recent surveys is 47.8-47.1.† This chart from Real Clear Politics provides a good look at how the gap in Obama's approval-to-disapproval split has drastically narrowed since late February: Real Clear Politics (H/T Roll Call's Steven Dennis)
AP ImagesBerkshire Hathaway-owned Business Wire is whining about the SEC's new guidelines for companies using social media. This week, the†SEC said it was OK†for companies to use social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter to post financial reports so long as their investors are aware ahead of time that those will be outlets used to disseminate that info. † Business Wire, which puts out press releases, said in a release that the SEC's latest rule "poses a disservice to the investment community." [via @cr_harper] Here's Business Wire's release:† While Business Wire is strongly supportive of social media tools, web posting on company web sites†and blogging as supplemental platforms to communicate material information, Business Wire believes that a broadly disseminated†news release -- distributed simultaneously and in real-time via a legitimate news wire service -- is still the most effective way to†maximize investor outreach, and to inclusively serve the needs of all market participants. In Business Wire's view,†the SEC's latest guidance†on the possible standalone use of social media†platforms for regulatory compliance purposes poses a disservice to the investment community, threatening increased fragmentation of price-sensitive information, privacy concerns as users are required to register to gain access to material news, security risks that may adversely affect market stability, and the loss of simultaneity -- and the "level playing field" -- that is at the core of Regulation Fair Disclosure. Business Wire, which makes extensive use of Twitter (with 61 industry Twitter feeds) and other social media tools as part of its multi-channel distribution platform, believes that social media should be leveraged as part of a broader news dissemination strategy. Reliance on social media alone, even in accordance with the SEC's newly issued guidelines, will likely negatively impact market fairness and investor awareness. However, social media used in conjunction with Reg FD-compliant disclosure vehicles, including a broadly circulated news release, an 8-K filing, and an IR web site, is a valuable adjunct that extends the reach of investor communications. "Best Practices" dictate that investor relations professionals utilize the full ensemble of communications tools at their disposal. "Protecting our clients' sensitive information is at the core of what we do, and we'll continue to do that in the most secure and innovative way possible," said†Cathy Baron Tamraz, Business Wire's chairwoman and CEO. "Social media can be a valuable part of the investor relations ecosystem, but it should not be the core. Social media has been an integral part of our distribution platform for many years, and we also hold two social media patents. However, we are wary of unintended consequences by limiting access to a single site that doesn't have the security, reliability, or interface to reliably serve the entire investment community." Business Wire prides itself on its patented internet news delivery network that ensure simultaneous, real-time distribution of material news to all network market participants worldwide. As the world's leading regulatory compliance service -- satisfying disclosure in 14 markets throughout North America and Europe -- Business Wire is subject to rigorous independent audits of its network security, technical systems and organizational infrastructure, and editorial procedures, to validate that it meets the stringent criteria of securities regulators, including the FCA in the UK, the AMF in France and the TMX in Canada. Business Wire also provides a complete audit trail that provides publicly listed companies with priceless "peace of mind" in the event of a regulatory investigation. As the industry's technology leader with five patents -- including "NX," the news delivery system that revolutionized the information industry when it was introduced in 2003 -- Business Wire is a strong proponent of harnessing new communications solutions. Business Wire remains a firm believer in taking a holistic approach to news distribution and investor relations, using its dynamic Internet-based platform as the backbone of its worldwide network, and continually bolstering its reach by adapting emerging technologies for its clients' constantly changing needs.
The euro has completely erased earlier losses and now it's exploding higher. Earlier today, the euro tanked during the European Central Bank's press conference where ECB president Mario Draghi reiterated his commitment to stay accomodative until the economy improves. The euro rally is particularly stunning relative to the Japanese yen, which tumbled after the Bank of Japan surprised markets with extraordinarily easy monetary policy. Bloomberg ¬†
Corporate profit margins have been on the tear, largely due to the American worker getting squeezed. Yet, despite high unemployment and stagnant wages, consumer spending has been resilient. In fact, this is a trend that's been going on for a while. In a new research note about corporate profit margins, Morgan Stanley's Gerard Minack discusses this. "What has been peculiar to the US is that consumer spending remained strong in the face of declining wage income share," he writes. Below is the chart he provided.¬† Perhaps it's a combination of consumer credit and government aid. Gerard Minack, Morgan Stanley
Image courtesy of Hayman CapitalKyle Bass has been betting that Japan, which has the highest government debt-to-GDP ratio in the world, will eventually lose control of the bond market once investors wake up to this concept. (Shorting Japanese bonds is known as the widowmaker trade, because it seems like an obvious conclusion to many traders, but it never bears itself out.) Naturally, Bass is also bearish on the yen. If the Bank of Japan lost control of the bond market, it would presumably be bad news for the country's currency. So, he's been doing well in recent months as the yen has quickly declined against the dollar. Betting against the yen has become one of the hottest trades in the world. A natural extension of that trade for many has been to buy Japanese stocks. After all, a weaker yen usually means higher stocks, as Citi strategist Steven Englander pointed out yesterday. Bass doesn't think the "buy stocks" part of the trade is such a great idea. Kyle Bass was on CNBC today to discuss the BoJ's decision last night to double the size of its asset purchases over the next two years, and he even went so far as to call those investing in Japanese stocks "macro tourists." Below is what Bass had to say: There's really no great prescription here to "profiteer" from what is going on in Japan. I think it's really important, if you run a global portfolio, or you have a global investment portfolio of your own, it's really important to just not be long yen, and not be long Japanese assets. I know there are some people that own Japanese equities in this Pavlovian response to "weaker yen, buy equities," but you have to remember: the Japanese industry has been hollowed out over the last 20 years, very similar to how the U.S. industrial complex was hollowed out in the 1970s.† So, I think it's going to be very disappointing for those who own those equities, and I kind of think they are "macro tourists." Note: The term "macro tourist" refers to someone who is not a traditional macro expert stepping out of one's†comfort zone to make big bets based on one's own (often flawed) notion of economics. CNBC anchor David Faber pressed Bass. Couldn't a weaker yen help revive Japanese industry? Bass replied: I think what you really have to focus on ñ I think people are focused on the dollar/yen too myopically. You have to think about where Japan has lost its trade competitiveness. It's lost it to Korea. And, I think the next thing you are going to see Japan talk about is buying foreign bonds, and I think they need to set the architecture up at the MoF and the BoJ to allow themselves to do so. If and when they do that, you're going to see an implicit trade war started by their purchasing of foreign bonds. So, I think that is sort of the next step out of the BoJ. But don't be myopic about dollar/yen. You have to think about where their trade competitiveness really is lost. Bass says he hopes he's wrong about all of it.
Image courtesy of Bloomberg TVOn social media, it's become popular to post pictures of your childhood for so-called "Throwback Thursday." In honor of this, Bloomberg TV has shared with us childhood pictures of some of their anchors.¬† Now it's time for you to guess who they are. Don't worry if you can't ¬†recognize them, we've included the photos in the slides that follow to test your knowledge.¬† ¬†
">Vince VenezianiThis, class, is a house of cards.This morning Salon.com posted a lengthy Q&amp;A with Jim Chanos about how he sees fraud and what it means in American business right now. As a man who's famous for exposing some of the worst cronyism in modern history, it's definitely worth the read.¬†In part because of how much Chanos talks about the theories he teaches in his class at Yale Business School, Financial Fraud Throughout History: A Forensic Approach. Check them out below: Now go read up. For the full Salon piece head here&gt;
CNBC screenshotTVNewser's Chris Ariens reports†that CNBC's 28-year-old star anchor Kelly Evans could be returning from the London headquarters to anchor "Squawk on the Street."† TVNewser hears†Kelly Evans†who†joined CNBC†from The†Wall Street Journal†last year and who currently anchors ìWorldwide Exchangeî from London, will be returning to CNBC HQ in the coming weeks and could land at ìSquawkî alongside†Carl Quintanilla,†David Faber,Simon Hobbs†and†Jim Cramer. But no definitive plans are in place, insiders say. "Squawk on the Street" was the show that Erin Burnett anchored when she was at the financial television network.† [Hat Tip: Talking Biz News]
BESTST0RYWINS / YouTubeOne of the biggest emerging economic stories is the American manufacturing renaissance. The idea is that rising overseas labor costs and falling domestic energy cost will lead to the reindustrialization of America. The most obvious benefit of this trend would be domestic job growth. But beyond that, the consequences are less clear. "The reindustrialisation of America, if it occurs, will likely be bearish for US equities," writes Gerard Minack, Morgan Stanley's Head of Global Developed Markets. "The biggest medium-term issue for equity investors is whether current high profits can be sustained. One factor boosting margins was the Asian-led surge in global labour supply, which squeezed returns to labour and boosted returns to capital. This was particularly pronounced in America. Reindustrialisation implies that this process has run its course, suggesting that returns to capital will revert to normal over the medium term." Indeed, with profit margins near all-time highs, more and more analysts warn that they aren't sustainable.¬† And reindustrialization is likely only supports the bearish margin thesis. Here's more from Minack: Most see the prospect of America reindustrialising as bullish. In my view, that depends on whether you are an economist or whether you are an investor. The ‚Äòdeindustrialisation‚Äô of America was bad for economic growth, but the increased global supply of labour lifted margins and total profits. The effect of wider margins on profits far outweighed the effect of two weak US GDP cycles (the cycles following the 2001 and 2008-09 recessions). Reindustrialisation may reverse this mix: Economic growth may improve, but margins worsen. Minack notes that profit margin growth has been responsible for half of domestic profits in the past decade.¬† He offers this extremely useful chart. Gerard Minack, Morgan Stanley "Looking ahead, reindustrialisation could contribute to these trends reversing," he reiterates. "On that basis, reindustrialisation would be bearish for equities."
REUTERS/Esam Al-FetorLast week, the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) announced a crackdown on wealth management products (WMPs). In a note today, David Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus writes that the selloff in commodities is because of a surge in the dollar, and in part because of this ruling to "remove leverage in the investment system." Commodities "have been crushed" since the ruling he writes.¬† WMPs which are part of China's shadow banking sector had surged to 13 trillion yuan ($2.1 trillion) at the end of 2012, up 50 percent year-over-year. Even as traditional bank lending in China is slowing, non-bank lending has been picking up.  A lot of this non-bank lending is channeled towards the construction and property sector and also towards small and medium businesses (SMEs). "Bottom line, it takes more leverage out of the system," David Lutz told Business Insider in an email. "It could even become destabilizing, if many projects were based on shadow financing, and the withdraw of those funds limits credit." For commodities like gold however, he points to a bunch of other reasons including low inflation, concerns over gold demand in India, renewed optimism about the U.S. recovery, and ETF outflows, among other factors. Business Insider's Matthew Boesler put together this chart that shows what a brutal first quarter commodities have had: Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
There have been whispers about this for a while, but now it's happening. Private equity firms are lowering the $5 million threshold for investments to attract some cash. Specifically, they would like to attract the ¬†$3.57 trillion American workers have invested in 401(k) retirement plans, says Bloomberg. And we're talking the big boys here: KKR, Carlyle, Blackstone... This is about solving a problem this business has been trying to dig out of for years. Private equity firms have had trouble raising cash for their traditional work, leveraged buy outs, since the financial crisis wiped out access to credit, and thus, the leverage their business model is based on. Even Warren Buffett lost on Energy Future Holdings, a $48 billion LBO (the biggest ever) that, six years later, seems to be on the verge of collapse. The PE industry is trying to diversify into general asset management ‚Äî real estate, hedge funds, ETFs, credit etc. This move into 401(k)s is just another way to do that. Of course, the problem is the complexity of the industry. Some assets are illiquid and opaque. Plus, PE firms lock up money for as much as a decade. That's why investing in this space has always been reserved for sophisticated, accredited investors that can throw down big money all at once. Last week, before all this news was confirmed, Dan Primack from Term Sheet reported that he spoke to an anonymous source who explained how PE firms could get around this hurdle using "target-date funds." From Term Sheet: Defined contribution plans like 401(k)s usually include something called "target-date funds," often as a default for workers who don't specify where they want their contributions to go. Traditionally these go into mutual funds tied to a participant's age. Basically, it would be higher-risk/higher-reward for younger participants, and become more conservative as the fund glides toward the "target date" (i.e., retirement). There also are custom target-date funds where plan sponsors use a mix of both mutual funds and separate accounts with institutional money managers in other asset classes (real estate investment trusts, commodities, hedge funds, physical real estate, etc.). This is where private equity could come in, as one of those other asset classes. Likely via fund-of-funds managers that can provide a diversified "sleeve" of exposure. Such a strategy bypasses the accredited investor rules, since it would be the plan sponsor (not the individual) making the commitment. Kind of like how public school teachers indirectly invest in private equity through their pension systems. If the custodians of 401(k) plans do start investing in PE it's going to take some time. The Department of Labor has standards for their due diligence to ensure they're being good stewards for workers. So that's something to look forward to.
Our friends at Visual Capitalist lay out everything you ever wanted to know about Bitcoin in this great infographic: Visual Capitalist
Former Enron CEO Jeffrey Skilling reportedly has a chance of getting out of prison early because the government is considering a deal to cut his sentence. CNBC, which broke the news, reports that an appeals court ruled in 2009 that his 24-year prison term was too long. However, Skilling was never resentenced because of delays in the appeals process. In the meantime, his attorneys have made plans to ask for a new trial based on alleged misconduct of the Enron Task Force. If the feds cut a sentencing deal with Skilling, CNBC points out, they could avoid the embarrassment of a retrial. In October 2006, Skilling, then 52, was sentenced for his role in the massive accounting fraud that caused Enron's spectacular collapse. (The fraud led to much stricter accounting standards under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.) Skilling appealed his sentence and convictions for fraud, insider trading, and conspiracy. In January 2009, a federal appeals court in New Orleans upheld his conviction. However, the¬† court found the 24-year sentence was too harsh and ordered a judge to resentence him. Skilling had gotten a "sentencing enhancement" (which allows a judge to impose a harsher sentence) for "substantially jeopardizing the safety and soundness of a "financial institution." The government argued that Enron's retirement plans ‚Äî which Skilling allegedly jeopardized ‚Äî counted as a financial institution, but the appeals court disagreed. "Under the government's position, any large corporation would become a financial institution just by virtue of providing its employees with a tax-sanctioned retirement account," the appeals court ruled, sending the case back to the lower court for resentencing.
The stock market will keep going up until it goes down. Investors have learned this lesson the hard way at least twice in the last 15 years. In his latest quarterly presentation, JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly includes this chart of S&amp;P 500 "inflection points." As you can see in the table, stocks are much cheaper today than they were during the previous peak.¬† Then again, the exact same thing could be said about the previous peak. J.P. Morgan
The Bank of Japan finally determined the Japanese people have suffered enough deflation as punishment for the bubbly 1980s economy. New central bank boss Haruhiko Kuroda announced the BoJ will¬†aim to double the monetary base over two years by purchasing long-term bonds, exceed market expectations. How does this compare to the Fed‚Äôs bond-buying program? The Financial Times: Under the new measures, the BoJ will expand its balance sheet by 1 percent of gross domestic product each month this year and by 1.1 percent per month in 2014, according to estimates from Barclays.¬†By comparison, the US Federal Reserve‚Äôs current monetary easing programme involves increasing the balance sheet by 0.54 per cent of GDP per month. In doing this, the BofJ is belatedly following the 1990s advice of Milton Friedman who urged the nation‚Äôs central bank to boost the money supply by¬†buying government bonds on the open market. ‚ÄúHigher monetary growth will have the same effect as always,‚Äù Friedman wrote. ‚Äù After a year or so, the economy will expand more rapidly; output will grow, and after another delay, inflation will increase moderately.‚Äù Will this new policy really work? Economist Scott Sumner says it already has: The stock market actually rose over 4% on the news, as it was down sharply right before the announcement. ¬†And of course the decision was widely expected, so the market response merely reflects the extent to which the bond purchase was larger than expected. ¬†It makes more sense to look at the stock market reaction since Abe first stunned the markets with a 2% inflation target proposal, while running for office in mid-November 2012. ¬†The Japanese stock market is up 45% since that announcement. ¬†The yen is down roughly 20%. ‚Ä¶¬†More proof that fiat money central banks are never ‚Äútrapped‚Äù by anything other than their timidity. Andy Mukherjee of Reuters Breakingviews suggests the BofJ get even more aggressive: Now that he has embraced Prime Minister Shinzo Abe‚Äôs anti-deflation mandate, Kuroda must stand ready to do more. His new strategy is hyper-aggressive by Japanese standards, but the U.S. Federal Reserve‚Äôs balance sheet has tripled since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers. Kuroda could resurrect equity-buying, which the BOJ experimented with in 2002 and 2009. Advanced economies ‚Äî at least the US and Japan ‚Äî are finally figuring this thing out by rediscovering Friedman. Tax-heavy fiscal austerity combined with tight money is a growth killer. Inflation isn‚Äôt everywhere and always a problem. And recessions don‚Äôt need to be morality plays where some must suffer for their supposedly irrational exuberance and ‚Äúmalinvestment.‚Äù
Legendary short seller Jim Chanos gave an extensive interview to Salon.com about how to spot fraud and corruption in business. It's an incredible coincidence that the story was published today, since the news broke that former Enron CEO Jeff Skilling, a man Chanos helped put behind bars, could be getting out of jail early. Enron is held up as the paragon of 1990s corporate greed. There, not everything was as it seemed despite excellent press all over the business world and a great reputation. The point is that companies can build amazing brands without being amazing businesses, and as Chanos points out, part of that brand can be doing charity work. From Salon: One of the more interesting observations in the world of fraud is that some of the most egregious frauds were some of the most philanthropic companies in their communities. In some ways, if you look at Bill Black‚Äôs theory of the corporation as both a weapon and shield (we teach a lot of Bill Black‚Äôs things in my class), you can begin to see that that would be one way in which the bad guys in corporate suites would basically use the corporation as a shield. They‚Äôd say, well, look at all the wonderful things we do in the community, how many people we employ. We give to hospitals, we give to the Little League team, and so on. Not all these things would be immediately obvious to the casual observer. So forget the frosting people, look at the cake.
Bloomberg via YouTubeLast week, Fred Hickey announced on Twitter that he had started shorting big-cap tech stocks for the first time in a long time. Hickey is the editor of widely circulated High-Tech Strategist newsletter.†† He's also a regular on Barron's exclusive Roundtable. In his latest issue, which was published yesterday, Hickey adds color to his call. "I am looking at taking short positions heading into these April earnings reports and have already established two small ones in IBM and Google," he writes. "As one would expect, International Business Machines has a lot of exposure to the weaker international markets," he adds. "Fifty-seven percent of their sales in Q4 were from overseas, and that didn't include Canada or Mexico.† There's big exposure to Europe and Japan." "Google's stock will dive on disappointing quarterly reports," he says. "Take a look at their roller-coaster-like stock chart over the past few years. The scary dips come around quarterly reports." Hickey is considering these positions in the context of his broader macro thesis, which is based on his concerns over expanding money supply. "I'm being very careful to limit my exposure in this money-printing environment."
Now that the stock market is hitting new highs, everyone's suddenly excited about buying stocks again. Meanwhile, four years ago, when stocks were at a decade low, no one wanted to have anything to do with them. It is ever thus. Warren Buffett is fond of observing that, when any other item in the economy goes on sale, folks get stoked about buying it. ("It's cheap! I'm getting a deal!") When stocks go on sale, meanwhile, folks are appalled by the idea of buying them. Instead, everyone wants to wait until stocks have gone up steadily for many years and, therefore, seem "safe." The good news about this bizarre and return-destroying attitude is that it creates an opportunity for investors who can manage their own emotions and buy when others are fearful, as they were four years ago, and sell (or at least get cautious) when others are greedy. And right now, after four years of amazing gains in stocks, investors are getting greedy. Does this mean the market is about to crash? No. Nothing means that the market is about to crash. Crashes are just a risk that you have to accept if you want to invest in the stock market. And for long-term investors, these crashes aren't actually a big or bad deal. They create the opportunity to invest more money in stocks at lower prices. But investors who are now feeling comfortable with the stock market because stocks just keep going up should keep a couple of things in mind. First, when measured on valid valuation measures--measures that take into account the business cycle and have shown an ability to predict future returns--stocks are very expensive. As fund manager John Hussman notes this week, two of these measures--Robert Shiller's "cyclically adjusted P/E ratio" and "Tobin's Q"--suggest that stocks are about 50% overvalued. Hussman includes the following chart, which is from the excellent strategist Andrew Smithers in London. See how high stock valuations are relative to most of the last century? Smithers & Co. Again, this overvaluation does not mean that stocks are about to crash. But it does suggest that future returns are likely to be very low relative to long-term averages. John Hussman estimates that stocks will only return about 3.5% per year over the next decade, which is a far cry from the 10% long-term average and the even greater returns of the past few years. So, even barring a crash, investors should keep their long-term return expectations in check. One thing that might actually cause stocks to crash, meanwhile, is a return of corporate profit margins to their long-term averages. Those who say today's stock market is "cheap" are comparing today's price to this year's earnings. The problem is that this year's earnings are benefitting from record-high profit margins. American companies have never made as much money per dollar of revenue as they are making now. And, in the past, when profit margins have spiked to levels that are even approaching today's levels, the margins have suddenly and violently reverted to the mean. Importantly, no one sees these profit-margin collapses coming. As the chart below shows, the mean-reversion is generally sudden and violent. And it creams the stock market. At some point, today's record-high profit margins will almost certainly revert to the mean. If this happens suddenly, the way it has always happens in the past, the stock market will almost certainly crash. Now, there are many good reasons for long-term investors to keep a healthy percentage of their portfolios in stocks: But investors who aren't really long-term investors--and who are, instead, buying stocks because they're finally comfortable that stocks aren't risky anymore--should find this chart very unnerving. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed
ECB President Mario Draghi held his monthly press conference this morning. One of the reporters at the presser was Scott Solano of German news agency DPA. Yesterday, Solano solicited questions from readers of the popular financial blog Zero Hedge. The gist of the question Solano put to Draghi was this: Does the ECB have plans in place to protect financial markets in the event that a euro zone member state were to leave the common currency, especially taking into account various derivatives exposures and the like? At first, Draghi seemed like he was going to avoid the question on the grounds that it was too hypothetical, but then he decided to answer it head on. In short, Draghi said, there is "no plan B" for the euro. Below is the full transcript of the exchange. (You can watch the video here. The dialogue between Solano and Draghi starts at 57:45.) -------------------------------------------------------- SCOTT SOLANO:†Mr. Draghi, I've got a couple of questions from viewers at Zero Hedge, and one of them goes like this. Say the situation in Greece or Spain deteriorates even further, and they want to ñ or are forced to ñ step out of the euro zone? Is there a plan in place so that the markets don't basically collapse? Is there some type of structure, or structural system, like a structural safety net, especially in the area of derivatives? The second question is: you spoke earlier about the emergency liquidity assistance. What would have happened to the ELA in Cyprus ñ the approximately 10 billion euros ñ if the country had decided to leave the euro zone? MARIO DRAGHI:†Well, you're asking questions that are so hypothetical that I don't have an answer to them. But let me tell you, these questions ñ I may actually have an answer, a partial answer. These questions are formulated by people who vastly underestimate what the euro means for the Europeans, for the euro area. They vastly underestimate the amount of political capital that has been invested in the euro. And so, they keep asking questions like, "IF the euro breaks down..." and "IF a country leaves the euro tomorrow..." I mean, it's not like a sliding door. It's a very important thing. It's a project in the European Union, this. So, that's why you will have a very hard time in asking people like me, "What would happen if?" No "Plan B." Second thing: I think the ECB has shown its determination to fight any redenomination risk. And OMT, with its precise rules, and acting within its mandate, is there to this purpose. So, that's the answer to the first question. The second question was about ELA, but again, it's related to if Cyprus leaves, and we don't have that in mind, so, thanks. No "Plan B." -------------------------------------------------------- Zero Hedge's reply to Draghi on Twitter: "No Plan B"
AP ImagesFormer Goldman Sachs trader Matthew Marshall Taylor pleaded guilty yesterday to hiding an $8.3 billion trading position from the bank back in 2007.¬†He was only 29 at the time. ¬†¬† As a result, Goldman ended up losing than $100 million unwinding the position, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.¬†Goldman also had to pay a $1.5 million civil penalty late last year for failing to diligently supervise Taylor.¬† The young trader said¬†that he amassed huge bet in S&amp;P 500 e-mini futures because he wanted to augment his reputation at the firm and increase¬†performance-based compensation, The¬†Wall Street Journal reported. But get this...¬† Taylor was going to be paid almost $2 million that year anyway. ¬†Prosecutors said he had a $150,000 base salary and an expected $1.6 million bonus, according to the WSJ. According to¬†FINRA records,¬†Taylor left Goldman in 2008 and went to Morgan Stanley where he worked until August 2012. ¬†Taylor had previously¬†worked at¬†Morgan Stanley¬†from 2001 to 2005 before joining Goldman.¬†¬† The former trader pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud yesterday. He could face up to 20 years in prison. The sentencing is scheduled for July 26.
YouTubeSpring BreakersEarlier today, we learned that initial weekly jobless claims surged to 385k, up 28k from a week ago. This was much higher than the 353k expected by economists. However, this week's number was hit by an unusual number of seasonal factors. From TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg: We caution against reading too much into the jump, however, given that a confluence of special factors has pushed the number higher this week. The labor department noted that the Easter holiday and spring break added to claims volatility and that two states were estimated due to the Easter holiday. It is worth noting that some schools lay off employees during the spring break holiday, helping to explain the spike in the series during this week. To make matters worse, the seasonal adjustment for this week is the most unsupportive since early-September. Seasonal adjustments will become more supportive over the coming several weeks, and we expect that a significant portion of the latest jump in claims will be retraced over the next few weeks. "The murky reading should have no impact on Fridayís highly-anticipated nonfarm payroll report," added Goldberg.
Reuters/ Lucas JacksonHedge fund manager Bill Ackman actually had a really solid first quarter in 2012 despite the JCPenney and Herbalife bets. † The New York Post's Michelle Celarier reports:† No hedgie endured the mediaís harsh glare more than Ackman, whose $12.39 billion Pershing Square managed a 6 percent gain despite losses in JCPenney and his $1 billion short on Herbalife, which ended the quarter up 14 percent. Troubled Penney was Ackmanís worst performer, down 23 percent. Ackmanís gains were propelled by his less controversial holdings, including Canadian Pacific Railway, up 28 percent, and Procter &amp; Gamble, which gained 13.5 percent. Much of the focus on Ackman has been his big bets on JCPenney and Herbalife.  Pershing Square is the biggest shareholder of JCPenney with a 18.11% stake, or 39,075,771 shares, according the latest†13F filing.†So far, he has taken a bath on the stock.† As for Herbalife, Ackman has publicly declared that he's shorting more than 20 million of the multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products. †Ackman believes Herbalife is a "pyramid scheme" and has a price target of $0.† Not everyone agrees with Ackman's short thesis on Herbalife, though. Both Carl Icahn and Daniel Loeb have snapped up big long positions in the company. † Pershing Square's performance is still behind the S&amp;P 500, which has gained 10 percent this year.†
ECBThe ECB's monthly interest rate decision is out. The central bank elected to leave the benchmark refinancing rate unchanged at 0.75 percent and the deposit facility rate on hold at 0 percent, as expected. During the press conference, Draghi said the ECB expects a gradual recovery in the second half of 2013, but that it is subject to downside risks. He also once again reiterated that the ECB's monetary policy stance will remain accommodative as long as is needed. Draghi said the discussion surrounding the rate cut was extensive, but the general consensus for the time being was to not look at rates. He also said the ECB does not "pre-commit" to future rate cuts. On the Cyprus bailout, Draghi said the ECB had presented a proposal wherein no bail-in from insured depositors was foreseen. He said that all of the proposals from the European Commission and the IMF had the same feature. Draghi said the decision to bail in insured depositors was the outcome of a meeting between euro zone officials and the president of Cyprus. "That was not smart," said Draghi. The ECB president went on to say that thanks to the announcement of OMT, "we are now in a position to cope with serious crises without them becoming existential or systemic." He also sought to stress that "Cyprus is no template." Draghi asserted that bail-ins were not a problem in and of themselves, but they become problems when not all parties involved know the rules of the bail-in. Draghi also said he thinks a euro exit is no solution for Cyprus, warning that such a decision would face many big risks. "What was wrong with Cyprus's economy doesn't stop being wrong if they are outside the euro," said Draghi.
REUTERS/David GrayThe news that initial jobless claims have spiked to 385K is a good time to bring up two big themes we've been talking about lately. One is that people see the economy rolling over a bit. The other is that people see market internals deteriorating. First on the economy we wrote on Tuesday about fears of a "Spring Swoon." Although Q1 numbers looked great, with GDP coming in as high as 3.5%, estimates for Q2 are already below 2% in many cases. In the last couple weeks there have been a fair number of downside economic surprises. And then on the market there's a lot of talk about market internals. We wrote about this yesterday. Breadth is narrowing, small caps are underperforming large caps (a sign of investor nervousness), and transports and banks have been lagging sectors. Markets are close to record highs, but fears related to both stocks and the economy are on the rise.
The euro is falling as ECB president Mario Draghi speaks. His language hasn't changed dramatically. However, he is reiterating that the ECB will stay accommodative and that the downside risks to the euro economy remain. Here's a look at the move in the euro. FinViz
">APJeff Skilling on the day of his 2006 sentencing.Former Enron CEO Jeffrey Skilling could be getting out of prison early, CNBC's investigative reporter Scott Cohn reports.¬† According to CNBC, an agreement is being discussed between Skilling's lawyers.¬† It's unclear how much his sentenced would be reduced if a deal is reached. Skilling was sentenced to 24 years in federal prison in Englewood, Colo., for his role in the collapse of the Houston-based energy firm. He has served six. ¬† Since being imprisoned, both of his parents and his college-age son John Taylor "JT" Skilling have died.
 The initial jobless claims number is out, and it's ugly. Initial jobless claims have spiked by 28K week over week to 385K. Analysts had expected 353K. This is the second weak datapoint in a row. Yesterday we got an ADP report that missed notably. Tomorrow is the Non-Farm Payrolls report, which should be exciting. Highest weekly claims reading since Thanksgiving.$$ This number helps bolster that meme.
flickr / Steve JurvetsonYesterday, the world's first and largest Bitcoin exchange, Mt. Gox, had an outage, and users couldn't access the trading platform. Today, Mt. Gox issued a press release on what happened. Apparently, the exchange has been subjected to a massive "distributed denial of service" attack. "Since yesterday, we are continuing to experience a DDoS attack like we have never seen," the company said on its website. "While we are being protected by companies like Prolexic, the sheer volume of this DDoS left us scrambling to fine-tune the system every few hours to make sure that things donít go beyond a few 502 error pages and trading lag." A distributed denial of service attack occurs when a large network of computers, usually controlled by a single operator, floods a website with traffic to the point where the website can't make new connections with other users trying to access the site. Below is the full press release from the Mt. Gox website. -------------------------------------------------------------------------- TOKYO - JAPAN - April 04, 2013 Dear Mt.Gox users and Bitcoiners, Itís been an epic few days on Bitcoin, with prices going up as high as $142 per BTC. We all hope that this is just the beginning! However, there are many who will try to take advantage of the system. The past few days were a reminder of this sad truth. Mt.Gox has been suffering from its worst trading lag ever, 502 errors, and at one point some users were not able to log in their account. The culprit is a major DDoS attack against Mt.Gox. Since yesterday, we are continuing to experience a DDoS attack like we have never seen. While we are being protected by companies like Prolexic, the sheer volume of this DDoS left us scrambling to fine-tune the system every few hours to make sure that things donít go beyond a few 502 error pages and trading lag. Why has Mt.Gox become the target of a DDoS attack? It is not yet clear who is behind this DDoS and we may never know, but these actions seem to have two major purposes: ï Destabilize Bitcoin in general. <U+2028>It is not a secret Mt.Gox is the largest Bitcoin exchange with more than 80% of all USD trades and more than 70% of all currencies. Mt.Gox is an easy target for anyone that wants to hurt Bitcoin in general. ï Abuse the system for profit. <U+2028>Attackers wait until the price of Bitcoins reaches a certain value, sell, destabilize the exchange, wait for everybody to panic-sell their Bitcoins, wait for the price to drop to a certain amount, then stop the attack and start buying as much as they can. Repeat this two or three times like we saw over the past few days and they profit. What can be done? Believe it or not, there is pretty much nothing that can be done. Large companies are frequently victims of these kinds of attacks. Even though we are using one of the best companies to help us fight against these DDoS attacks, we are still being affected. There are a few things that we can implement to help fight the attacks, such as disconnecting the trade engine backend from the Internet. By separating the data center from the Mt.Gox website, we will continue to be able to trade. What can you do? Like our favorite author here at Tibanne saysÖ Donít Panic! ìPanic-selling is a wide-scale selling of an investment which causes a sharp decline in prices. Specifically, an investor wants to get out of an investment with little regard of the price obtained. The selling activity is problematic because the investor is selling in reaction to emotion and fear, rather than evaluating the fundamentals.î (Source: Wikipedia) I understand that many of you have a lot at stake here, but remember that Bitcoin, despite being designed to have its value increase over time, will always be the victim of people trying to abuse the system, or even the value of Bitcoin decreasing occasionally. These are not new phenomena and have been present since the beginning of time when humans first started trading. Trade Engine Lags<U+2028> Lag affects everyone, not only us, but also major, world-renowned exchanges like the NASDAQ and NYSE. We can fix lag, but we cannot eradicate lag. Only small exchanges with low volume and liquidity are immune to lag. Does this mean that we are giving up fighting lag? Hell, no. We are working on it by creating a new trade engine that will solve many problems, but itís not a magic bullet. We can always try to scale our servers, but we cannot predict what happens from external sources: DDoS, panic selling, immediate increase of buyers, etc. Lag will always be there, but our mission is to make lag as small as possible. Account Verification  As if a major DDoS attack was not enough, we at Mt.Gox are victim of our own success! Last year, Mt.Gox saw an average of 9,000 to 10,000 new accounts created every month. This number doubled in January, tripled in February, and sextupled in March. In this month alone (March), over 57,000 new accounts were created! Our support and account verification team went from four people in January 2012 to twenty-two people working every day of the week. We are now hiring even more people to solve this problem by finalizing some deals with external companies. Remember that even if you are waiting for your account to be verified, you can still deposit or withdraw funds via our Japanese account and make your trades! (Only accounts that we pro-actively required to be verified are limited to deposits and trade only.) Finally We have seen a significant amount of comments on the web (various forums, Reddit, etc.) that portray Mt.Gox as a company held by ìidiotsî and other rather rude words, complaining about inability to deal with lag and other system issues, without understanding the magnitude of work and attacks we are facing every day. I understand the frustration many of you feel. We hate this situation as well. Since we took over Mt.Gox, we have been through Hell and back and we are still here. We are still the largest exchange with over 420,000 trades per month and USD $121 million monthly trade volume. We have worked our way through all the requirements needed to run our exchange legally. Now, there are some things we can improve, but so far we are doing an incredible job that no other exchange has been able to do so far. While I understand a certain amount of frustration, realize what we have accomplished. I appreciate all the work you are doing everyday to push things forward and to help secure the future of Bitcoin. And to all of you who are supporting us on a daily basis, thank you! We could not have done any of this without your help!† RegardsMt.Gox Co. Ltd Team. Mt.Gox Contact press@mtgox.com
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
The Bank of England has concluded its interest rate meeting, and it's keeping rates unchanged 0.5 percent. It's also holding its asset purchase program at ¬£375 billion. No big surprises here. Later this morning, the European Central Bank will be revealing any changes to its monetary policy.
There have been three surprises for the market to digest and this is ahead of the Bank of England and European Central Bank Meetings. The biggest surprise is the BOJ, which triggered a dramatic reversal in the yen and Japanese stocks and bonds. Australia began the day by surprising the market with strong retail sales and building approval data, though the real surprise may be failure of the Australian dollar to hold on even modest upticks and fell to 3-day lows just above $1.04. The third surprise was the European service PMIs. The disappointment came from Germany and, especially France, while the UK, Italy and Spain surprised on the upside. The Bank of Japan came through and after elevating market expectations, still managed to provide upside surprises. In particular, the switch in policy targets from the overnight call money to the monetary base (cash plus bank deposits) was perhaps the most important qualitative surprise. The BOJ intends to double the monetary base over the next two years. It was about JPY138 trillion at the end of last year. The BOJ intends to buy sufficient assets to pump this up to JPY200 trillion by the end of this year and JPY270 trillion by the end of next year. To achieve this, which itself is a means, it thinks, to lifting CPI to 2%, the BOJ buy more JGBs with longer maturities, and making even the 40 year JGB eligible. BOJ Governor Kuroda had also indicated a desire to increase the purchases of riskier assets as well and to this end, increased ETF and REIT purchases. The Nikkei, which had been off around 2% before the announcement, stormed back to finish up 2.2% and to move within spitting distance of the 12650 cyclical high set on March 21. Financials led the way, gaining 5.25%. Japanese government bond yields fell sharply and the long-end of the yield curve flattened with the yield on the 30-year dropping twice as much as the 11 bp decline in 10-year. The dollar was trading below JPY93 before the BOJ's announcement; it quickly rallied to almost JPY95.70 before consolidating in the European morning.¬† We too had that the risks lie with disappointment. We remain skeptical that a return to targeting the monetary base, which was the case until 2006, will succeed. The monetary base stood at a record at the end of March. The problem is that monetary base is not spilling over into the real economy. This is what is meant by pushing on the string.¬†¬† Timing is important and the market, like us, had been leaning the other way today and position adjusting may have more room to run in the near-term.¬†  Australia data was much better than expected and provided further fodder for arguments that the RBA's easing cycle is over at 175 bp.¬† February retail sales jumped 1.3%, rather than the 0.3% the consensus expected and the robust 0.9% rise in January was revised to 1.3%. ¬† Separately, Australia reported building approvals rose 3.1% in Feb, which was also better than the 2.5% expected and the January series was revised to show a smaller decline (-2% rather than -2.4%).¬† The Australian dollar initially rallied, but was unable to rise above yesterday's high just shy of $1.05 and returned to almost $1.04.¬†¬†¬†¬† A potential double top is in place near $1.05.¬† A break of the neck line, seen at Monday's low near $.10385 needs to be taken to confirm the pattern.¬† It would project toward $1.03, which also corresponds to a 50% retracement of the rally from the early March low set net $1.0115.¬†¬† The third surprise today is the release of the service sector PMIs in Europe.¬† The EMU reading slipped to 46.4 from the 46.5 flash reading, and down from the 47.9 in February.¬† Downward revisions to Germany (50.9 from 51.6 flash and 54.7 in February) and France (41.3 from 41.9 flash and 43.7 in February) were the main culprits.¬† Spain and Italy extended their streak below the 50-boomo/bust level for 21 and 22 months respectively, but showed modest improvement from February). ¬† The euro was sold on the news, but has held above Monday's low set near $1.2770 and above the $1.2750 seen last week.¬†¬†¬† Separately, the UK reported better than expected service PMI.¬† The 52.4 reading is the strongest since last May.¬† The consensus expected some weakness to 51.5 from 51.8 in February.¬† The service sector accounts for a full three quarters of the UK economy.¬† The strength of today's report likely means that UK economy expanded slightly in Q1.¬† Sterling was not helped by the data and actually fared worse than the euro insofar as sterling fell to its lowest level since March 20, near $1.5035.¬†        Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
‚ÄúI worry that recent moves in the forex market have been driven solely by announcements regarding quantitative easing and not by the relative changes in actual money supply. This is an indication that many forex market participants remain unaware that the relationship between the money supply and the monetary base has since 2008 (and since 1990 in Japan) morphed into something very different to what the textbooks predict. Prior to these bubbles, base money and the money supply tracked each other almost perfectly across the industrialized world. Knowing one of these variables, it was easy to assume what had happened to the other. Since the bubbles burst, however, this relationship‚Äîlike the one between base money and inflation‚Äîhas collapsed. Behind the breakdown of both these linkages is the fact that the private sector, which is dealing with balance sheets impaired by the collapse of an asset bubble, has not only stopped borrowing but has also been paying down debt, prompting the money multiplier to turn negative at the margin at times. That is why central bank monetary policy has lost so much of its potency in Japan and other developed economies in the postbubble era.‚Äù As I‚Äôve said before, this is one of the most interesting policy experiments currently occurring in the world. ¬†If the BOJ succeeds here it could change the way the world approaches policy. ¬†Indeed, the concepts of the ‚Äúwealth effect‚Äù and talking up markets will become an even more pervasive and outright policy approach. Source: Nomura
But then along came Greg Mankiw, Mike Woodford, Guillermo Calvo, and others, and came up with sticky-price theory, which led to New Keynesian models, which are entirely based on the idea that prices¬†don't¬†adjust as smoothly as Lucas assumes. And those New Keynesian models ended up basically winning the battle of hearts and minds among a majority (though not an overwhelming majority) of macroeconomists, pushing out the RBC models that made the kind of equilibrium assumption that Lucas prefers.In other words, sometimes modeling the disequilibrium dynamics of one kind of "equilibrium" is really important. But to make that model, you assume an "equilibrium" of another kind.
Recife, in Brazil‚Äôs northeast Pernambuco state, is known to many as the ‚ÄúVenice of Brazil‚Äù given its many waterways and bridges. ¬† A welcome winter stop for our emerging markets team, the city is blessed with a tropical climate that‚Äôs as warm and sunny as its people. While the residents in this area of Brazil are often regarded as being extremely laid back given the balmy weather, we found them to be very hard workers. For example, our local taxi driver reported working about 12 hours a day, six days a week!¬† We found this seaside and shipping hub was not only a hotbed of tourist activity, but of potential investment opportunities as well. Football Fans  Recife will be one of the 12 cities playing host to the 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil‚Ñ¢, so many were also hard at work on infrastructure and construction projects there. Like the rest of Brazil, Recife‚Äôs residents are football (aka ‚Äúsoccer‚Äù in North America) crazy. A big city with a population of four million, Recife has its share of problems, including a reputation for violent crime, though with a homicide rate below that of many other large cities, including Detroit and New Orleans in the U.S.1 Perhaps an even greater danger is in the water‚Äîwith aggressive sharks lurking off the coast of Recife‚Äôs beautiful beaches, an important tourist draw. Recife‚Äôs name refers to the reef surrounding parts of the beaches, but sharks come in at high tide, so swimmers and surfers need to be careful.¬†Since 1992, there have been more than 50 shark attacks, some fatal.¬† Surfing off the coast of urban beaches was outlawed in 1995, and state officials have tried to reduce shark attacks by posting warning signs along the beaches and using patrol boats to capture sharks too close to the coast. Although Recife has been named among the top ten places in the world for shark attacks, of course it‚Äôs not the only place in the world where shark attacks are a problem.¬†The list also includes locations in Australia and South Africa, as well as Hawaii, California and Florida in the U.S. The good news is that the Recife government has taken strong measures to help prevent such attacks.¬† From Soft Sand to Concrete ¬† Of course, we didn‚Äôt visit Recife for its sandy beaches; we went to evaluate a pre-stressed concrete firm.¬† That meant visiting a number of construction sites, particularly factory buildings and others with large, open spans.¬†A strong, structural material used to overcome concrete‚Äôs natural tension weakness, pre-stressed concrete is a combination of high-strength concrete and steel bands that is used in various aspects of construction, from beams to floors to bridges. One of the best examples of the use of pre-stressed concrete we saw was the just-completed Rio Mar Mall, an impressive, modern, beautifully designed‚Äîand huge‚Äîbuilding.¬† A bird‚Äôs eye view of a construction site in sunny Recife, Brazil We also explored the Suape Industrial Port Complex area. Thanks to government fiscal incentives, many industrial enterprises started in the 1970s and 1980s in Brazil. Today, the Suape Port area is the site of a number of industries including¬†brewing, canning, automotive electronics and textiles.¬† It‚Äôs a large shipyard where we observed two highly complex oil production ships under construction, part of the government‚Äôs efforts to locally source Brazil‚Äôs offshore oil industry, drill ships, production ships and offshore platforms.¬† We also visited the enormous 13,500 hectare construction project in the Port area, which includes an oil refinery and petrochemical complex in addition to many subsidiary and supporting industrial projects. A joint venture between Brazil and Venezuela, the plan is to process heavy oil from Venezuela and Brazil to produce diesel and other petrochemicals to help meet growing demand from northeastern Brazil. The initial estimated cost of the project was US$2.5 billion, but the budget has reportedly exploded to over US$16 billion.¬†The partnership showed signs of cracking amid funding and political issues, but the China Development Bank stepped up with 75% of the loan guarantees needed to continue, in exchange for future shipments of oil. ¬†Construction began in 2006 and is still not yet complete. From our bird‚Äôs eye view of the enormous construction site, we saw lots of activity, but completion this year seems ambitious given how much remains to be done.¬† When completed, Recife‚Äôs petrochemical complex could potentially benefit the people of Brazil. Sugar is a major crop in the country, and the ethanol made from sugar is an important industry. As a result of these projects‚Äîin addition to the booming tourist industry‚ÄîRecife is throbbing with activity.¬†¬†With a growing population, the retail businesses have been doing quite well‚Äîas evidenced by the crowded malls.¬†¬†We are finding a number of potential investment opportunities in northeast Brazil and plan to spend more time in the area‚Äîbut it‚Äôs fairly safe to say surfing won‚Äôt be on our agenda! 1. Source: The¬†Citizens‚Äô Council for Public Security and Criminal Justice, 2012. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª
Europe's economy continues to be a mess. The latest purchasing managers index (PMI) numbers continue to show contraction at an accelerating rate. The eurozone composite PMI fell to 46.5 in March, down from 47.9 a month ago. Any reading below 50 signals contraction. Germany and France delivered worse numbers.† Italy and Spain had improving numbers, but they still reflected contraction. From Markit Economics: Markit
However, the most interesting part of the report was how it highlights the importance of small businesses to an economic recovery. Small businesses are typically defined as those that employ fewer than 500 people. Of the 158,000 payroll gains in March, 111,000 came from small businesses. In fact, 74,000 jobs were created by businesses that employ fewer than 50 people. Only 47,000 jobs were due to hiring from large companies. Yet large businesses are the ones that have the clout and resources to lobby politicians. Perhaps it is time for elected officials who are interested in putting more people to work to start paying more attention to what small business owners have to say.
Lower-rated bonds led performance within the bond market during the first quarter of 2013, continuing a theme from 2012. The combination of higher yields and good fundamentals led to price gains among lower-rated bond sectors such as high-yield bonds, preferred stocks, and bank loans. Gains among lower-rated bonds contrasted with price declines and modest losses on high-quality bonds [Figure 1]. As a result, the broad bond market, as measured by the Barclays Aggregate Bond Index, suffered a small loss of 0.1% during the first quarter of 2013. LPL Financial A modest rise in Treasury yields was the primary catalyst for high-quality bond weakness over the first three months of 2013. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note finished the quarter higher by 0.09%, but note the disparity in yield changes as short-term yields were unchanged, while the greatest yield increase occurred among long-term bonds [Figure 2]. LPL Financial ¬† Recurring Themes Shape Second Quarter OutlookWe believe the themes below will likely continue to influence the bond market and reinforce the low-return environment for bonds as outlined in our Outlook 2013. Callout next to the 2nd quarter bullet.¬† Please see the Weekly Market Commentary: 10 Indicators to Watch for a Spring Slide in the Stock Market (03/25/13) for further reading.¬† Ongoing Challenges Should Support High-Quality Bond Prices While we continue to focus on lower-rated, higher-yielding segments of the bond market, we believe performance will slow going forward. With a near 3% total return for the first quarter, high-yield bonds, for example, have achieved roughly half of our mid-to-high single-digit total return forecast for 2013. We therefore expect performance to slow. Our forecast was based upon stable-to-slightly-weaker prices accompanied by a full year of interest income. We expect a more modest version of the second quarter rebound that helped boost high-quality bond performance in 2011 and 2012. The lack of yield in the bond market makes as strong a rebound less likely for the second quarter of 2013, but the challenges outlined above should support high-quality bond prices. Among high-quality bonds, municipal bonds stand out as an opportunity following a difficult March that led to more attractive valuations [Figure 3]. LPL Financial
Flickr / alles-schulmpfMarkets are up early in the European trading session. Germany's DAX is up 0.2 percent. France's CAC 40 is up 0.5 percent. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1.2 percent. England's FTSE is down 0.1 percent. This comes in the wake of some disappointing eurozone services PMI numbers. Later this morning, the ECB will end its interest rate meeting and announce any new changes to monetary policy.
The Bank of Japan had its first interest rate meeting with Haruhiko Kuroda, the dovish banker hand-picked by new prime minister Shinzo Abe to push easy monetary policy. The incredible hype surrounding Kuroda and Abe's "Abenomics" have caused the Nikkei to surge and the yen to plunge for months. This had many market watchers worried that Kuroda was doomed to disappoint. They were wrong. In what RBS described as the "perfect answer," Kuroda surprised everyone with a massive monetary easing plan. It will embark on an open-ended asset purchase plan and buy around 7 trillion yen ($75 billion) of long-term government bonds per month. "The BOJ will conduct money-market operations so that the monetary base will increase at an annual pace of about 60 trillion yen to 70 trillion yen," the BOJ said. The markets were impressed.¬† You can see their verdict in the Nikkei, which surged, and the yen, which tanked. Nikkei
REUTERS / Issei KatoTOKYO (Reuters) - The Bank of Japan shocked markets on Thursday with a radical overhaul of its policymaking, adopting a new balance sheet target and pledging to double its government bond holdings in two years as it seeks to end nearly two decades of deflation. At Governor Haruhiko Kuroda's first policy-setting meeting, the central bank shifted its policy target to the monetary base -- the total size of cash and bank deposits -- from the overnight call rate, which is at zero to 0.1 percent. The decision marks a return to the BOJ's five-year quantitative easing policy that ended in 2006, when it flooded markets with cash targeting excess reserves that financial institutions parked with the central bank. The scope of the changes Kuroda pushed through, and the fact he secured unanimous board support for them, drove the yen down sharply and knocked the 10-year bond yield to a record low. The Nikkei stock index unwound losses of more than 2 percent to end up 2.2 percent, just shy of a 4-1/2 year closing high hit last month. "I can say that the BOJ came up with a perfect answer in response to market expectations," said Junko Nishioka, chief Japan economist at RBS Securities. "Kuroda made good on his promise of boosting monetary easing in terms of both volume and types of assets that the bank purchases." To meet its new 2 percent inflation target, the central bank will boost asset purchases to double its holdings of government bonds and exchange-traded funds (ETF) in two years. In doing so, it will revert to open-ended asset purchases and buy over 7 trillion yen ($75 billion) of long-term government bonds per month, so that the balance of its bond holdings increase at an annual pace of 50 trillion yen. "The BOJ will conduct money-market operations so that the monetary base will increase at an annual pace of about 60 trillion yen to 70 trillion yen," the BOJ said in a statement announcing the decision. Despite the market excitement, some analysts were skeptical whether pumping money to markets already awash with excess funds was a solution to end deflation. The monetary base is expected to expand to 200 trillion yen this year and to 270 trillion yen by the end of 2014, almost doubling from 2012 when it was 138 trillion yen, the BOJ said. "It is as if we've gone back to the quantitative easing of the 2000s," said Hiroaki Muto, senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management in Tokyo. "Targeting the monetary base will lead to a huge increase in current account balances that commercial banks keep at the BOJ, but I'm still not sure if this money will move through the economy." Base money, or cash and reserves at the BOJ, already hit a record in March, but the huge pile of money has failed to end deflation or boost wages. REGIME CHANGE Kuroda's first policy meeting since taking office on March 20 was seen as a big test of his ability to steer the BOJ towards unorthodox measures to meet the inflation target it adopted in January, and he did not disappoint markets. Government bond futures soared and the benchmark 10-year bond yield hit 0.425 percent, its lowest ever. The yen, which had been creeping up in the run-up to the meeting, plunged, driving the dollar up by more than 2 percent to around 95.25 yen from around 92.90 before the decision. Kuroda has been keen to engineer a "regime change" from his predecessor's cautious approach, pledging to do "whatever it takes" to achieve the 2 percent inflation target in two years, a timeframe many see as overly ambitious. The BOJ combined two bond-buying schemes, its asset-buying and lending program and the "rinban" bond-buying market operation, to buy government bonds across the yield curve, including those with duration of 40 years. The central bank will also increase purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETF) by 1 trillion yen per year and real-estate trust funds (REIT) by 30 billion yen per year. The BOJ strengthened its commitment to ultra-easy policy, saying it will continue aggressive stimulus until 2 percent inflation was sustainably achieved. Previously, it had said it would maintain ultra-loose policy for as long as necessary. As Kuroda had signaled earlier, the central bank also temporarily scrapped a self-imposed rule of capping its holdings of government bonds to the value of bank notes in circulation. ($1 = 92.8600 Japanese yen) (Additional reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto and Kaori Kaneko; Editing by John Mair) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
