Kevin BaumanIf a federal court approves Detroit's bankruptcy plan, its retired workers will see their pension benefits cut drastically. It shouldn't be this way. When a company goes bankrupt, most of its workers' pension benefits are insured through the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a federal government entity established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Congress should extend ERISA or a similar set of rules to municipal and state governments. This would force governments to manage their pension systems in a safe way, and would protect workers from destitution in the event of a state or municipal insolvency like Detroit's. ERISA reflects a reality of retirement: pensions are supposed to be super-safe investments, and they are too central to their holders' retirement to simply allow them to be discharged in bankruptcy. But since federal insurance might encourage irresponsible behavior by pension sponsors, it comes with rules: companies must make prompt payments to ensure pensions are adequately funded, and they must pay fees to cover the cost of PBGC payouts. ERISA has made corporate pensions more secure, but also more rare. Part of what companies liked about pension plans was the ability to use them as a slush fund: Make promises now, pay later, and leave workers holding the bag if you go bankrupt in the meantime. Once they were forced to pay upfront and invest responsibly, many corporations chose not to offer pensions at all. The share of private employees covered by pension funds has fallen by half since 1980. Even as they has fallen out of favor in the private sector, traditional defined-benefit pensions have stayed dominant in the public sector. And as companies used to, governments routinely use them as slush funds, promising benefits and only paying into the funds to the extent it is convenient. In 2009, at the depth of the state fiscal crisis, just 61% of states and municipalities made at least 90% of the payment amount recommended by their pension actuaries. And often, the actuarial payment recommendation had already been massaged downward. For example, Los Angeles and South Carolina both adopted new "smoothing" methodologies after the stock market crash of 2008-9 that delayed recognition of losses. This allowed them to overstate how funded their pension systems were, reducing how much they had to pay in. This accounting trick will relieve Los Angeles of the obligation to make $125 million in pension contributions during the coming fiscal year. Eric Garcetti, the newly elected mayor, had the balls to take credit for the massaging as a "pension savings" during his campaign. Of course, fiddling with the numbers and delaying payments doesn't reduce the cost of employee pensions, it just allows the bill to be paid later‚Äîand with interest. Most governments aren't insolvent like Detroit, so usually retirees get paid in full and future taxpayers get stuck holding the bag. That's probably what will happen in Los Angeles. But sometimes, as in Rhode Island, lawmakers later reach the conclusion that they overpromised and then rescind already-promised benefits even though the government is not insolvent. When this happens, taxpayers and bondholders are the winners and retirees are the ones who lose out. Today's Wild West-style system where states and localities make up their own rules is not serving anybody's interests reliably. An ERISA-like system for the public sector, where pensions are insured and governments must fund adequately and account honestly, would result in pensions that are more transparent, more reliable, and less generous. It would mean that retirees, unlike Detroit's, would be protected by a large cushion of dedicated pension assets in the event of municipal insolvency. In the event that cushion failed, the backstop of federal insurance would be available. And municipal officials would be less tempted to make big pension benefit promises as they would not have the option to put off paying their costs. Conservatives won't like this idea because it's a big federal intrusion into state and local finances and it means a new federal guaranty of the pension benefits sought by public workers. All of that is true, but I don't see a particular virtue in allowing states and localities to make big, costly and painful mistakes, and I don't see allowing the mass abrogation of pension benefits as socially viable‚Äîwhich is why we got ERISA in the first place. Liberals won't like it because it will discourage the provision of defined benefit pensions. That's also true, but I think the evidence is weak that DB pensions are an efficient tool for recruiting and retaining public workers. Maria Fitzpatrick's study of Illinois teachers, finding that most were willing to pay only 19 cents on the dollar for a pension sweetener offered in 1998, especially suggests that officials are wasting taxpayer money by paying in benefits instead of cash. There is a separate question of whether the government should provide pensions for paternalistic reasons even if workers do not value them highly. I agree the government should make paternalistic interventions to provide retirement security, but the federal government should do so for all workers, rather than states and localities doing so just for the public workforce. I've written before about why. The situation in Detroit is a tragedy, for the city's residents, its workers, and its bondholders. That's what bankruptcy is for: sorting out the mess when everything goes to hell. A new ERISA-like law wouldn't prevent cities like Detroit from falling into the fiscal abyss, but it would prevent them from borrowing from their retirees along the way, and would ensure retirees don't end up destitute as a result.
Something just happened to the Japanese market, and there are no obvious news headlines to correlate it with. But the Nikkei just fell out of bed. Even reporters there are scratching their heads, unable to tie the move to some event. Odd. Nikkei.com
Flickr/Renee SuenSoon Tofu ChigaeMarkets are mixed in Asia. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is down 0.4%. Korea's Kospi is down 0.1%. Japan's Nikkei is up 0.3%. China's Shanghai Composite is down 0.1%. This comes after U.S. markets closed at all-time record highs. Tech giants Microsoft and Google both announced disappointing Q2 financial results after the bell. Prices fell bringing down Nasdaq futures. There isn't much expected to happen on Friday.¬† No major economic data is scheduled to be released.
SEATTLE/LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - In the sparse Seattle offices of†Privateer Holdings,†Brendan Kennedy†grabs an†iPad†to show how his bet on legal marijuana is already paying dividends in the form of a Google results page for "blue cheese." When Web users search that term, high on the list is a link to reviews of the pot strain "blue cheese" on Leafly.com, the medical cannabis website Privateer bought a year and a half ago and which it calls the Yelp of weed. "We've got Wikipedia blue cheese and pictures of blue cheese, and the third thing you see is the 'blue cheese' strain on Leafly," Kennedy said as he displayed the Google results page. He says Leafly produces revenue of over $100,000 a month. Popular interest in marijuana and moves by Washington state and†Colorado†to legalize recreational pot have led Kennedy's two-year-old private equity firm and a handful of politically connected investors to dive into the pot business. The drug remains illegal under federal law. Privateer this week said it closed a $7 million first round of fundraising. It also named to its board of directors†Michael Auerbach, an investor with ties to former U.S. Secretary of State†Madeleine Albright. A next round of Privateer fundraising to begin in the fall will be not less than $25 million, Kennedy and Privateer CFO Michael Blue said in a statement. With annual marijuana sales, both on the black market and in 18 states that allow the drug as medicine, estimated at $20 billion nationally according to†Harvard†economist†Jeffrey Miron, businesses are seeking legal avenues to enter the industry. Still, the $7 million raised by Privateer is small by the standards of private equity firms, which typically raise hundreds of millions of dollars per fund. "The obstacle is it's not a legal product yet ... It's not legal under federal law," Miron said. "That's a huge impediment to being able to earn a profit or keep a profit." Apart from Privateer, the only other fund raising money with the sole purpose of capitalizing on the fast-growing pot industry is Emerald†Ocean Capital, a division of†Southern California-based venture capital firm†Ghost Group, said Josh Rosen, a former analyst at Credit Suisse who co-founded cannabis retailer consultant 4Front Advisors. Rosen said Privateer appears to be the larger of the two. 2014 START Washington state and†Colorado†are still tweaking their rules for the recreational-use pot business, which is slated to be up and running in both states next year. Privateer says it will insulate itself from the risk of federal prosecution by investing in pot-related businesses not directly tied to U.S. production, distribution or sale of the drug. "I'm not about to invest my personal funds in something that could get shut down tomorrow," said Auerbach, a senior adviser to global strategy firm†Albright Stonebridge Group, which is co-chaired by Albright. Auerbach said he has not spoken to Albright about pot, but both Kennedy and Blue, who are†YaleMBA graduates, have lobbied members of†Congress†for a more tolerant federal stand on cannabis. A U.S. Department of Justice representative declined to comment on groups investing in pot-related businesses. Kennedy said Privateer, which has raised funds from family offices and high net worth individuals, will look at investing in everything from light designers for indoor cannabis growing to makers of harvesting equipment and trimmers. Others are making bolder choices. A senior political aide in Washington state, who declined to be named, hopes to leave his job to build a marijuana farm in wine-producing Walla Walla. He said he and several co-investors had pooled $250,000 and hoped for $2.3 million more from a venture capitalist. In May, former Microsoft executive†Jamen Shively†announced plans, criticized as unrealistic because of the federal ban, to create a U.S. marijuana brand. He drew attention for winning political support from former Mexican President†Vicente Fox. Kevin Sabet, co-founder of†Project SAM†which opposes pot legalization, said the entry of large investors in the market was worrisome. "This is about profit maximization based on addiction," he said. (Additional reporting by Jonathan Kaminsky in Olympia, Washington; Editing by Cynthia Johnston and Phil Berlowitz) (This story was refiled to correct†Michael Auerbach†to Michael Blue in paragraphs 6 and 15)
Kevin BaumanEarlier today, Detroit filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy, the largest municipal bankruptcy in history. Municipal bond experts Peter Hayes and James Schwartz of Blackrock published a brief analytical note earlier this month titled "Distress In Detroit." In it they offered some stats that would make anyone cringe. Here are eleven of them: Read Hayes &amp; Schwartz note at BlackRock.com.
DetroitDetroit just became the largest U.S. city to ever file for bankruptcy. What does it mean when a city files for bankruptcy? Assuming the case goes forward ó some creditors may try to object to the filing ó the court will now determine which entities ó corporations, pension funds, employees and anyone else Detroit owes money to ó †will actually see the money they were promised by the city. According to the American Bankruptcy Institute Journal, Detroit technically gets to do all of the proposing for how that works out. It will submit a restructuring plan to the court, and if the plan doesn't violate any sections of the federal bankruptcy code, it will be voted on by the creditors. The creditors don't get to propose their own plan, and the court can issue a "cram down" order to force objecting creditors to accept parts of the plan. † But there will be negotiations going along the whole way where creditors will have their say. The court will also help the city figure out ways to raise some of the money it owes. Emergency manager Kevyn Orr wants to dissolve the city's current water and sewer authority and replace it with a new regional one. Orr also hopes to sell off assets like one of the city's major parks, and its art collection.† You can read the original plan Kevyn Orr put together to save the city here ª But revenue alone will probably barely dent what analysts estimate as $20 billion†in unfunded obligations to creditors.† So there will likely be a mix of haircuts to creditors, and pensioners seeing reductions in stipends. This afternoon, Orr appeared on CNBC's The Kudlow Report where he said he hopes to have the case settled by Fall 2014 at the latest. In its filing, the city ticked the box showing it faces more than 100,000 creditors. So that 2014 deadline may prove ambitious.
Jeff Saut, the top investment strategist at Raymond James, is pretty sure the stock market is due for a sell-off. In fact, he has pinpointed the date of the top: July 19. The timing could be appropriate considering the fact that both the Dow and S&amp;P 500 closed at all-time highs on Thursday. Saut spoke with Eric King of King World News: ‚ÄúFor the past two and a half months I have targeted tomorrow, July 19th, as the intermediate-top on both my quantitative timing and technical models.¬† So I think tomorrow is the potential turning point for the first meaningful decline of the year.¬† I have been raising cash for the past few weeks and I think this correction in the stock market will be roughly 10% to 12%. It‚Äôs just a question of, is this thing going to end with a whimper, or is it going to end with a bang?¬† The shorts have been absolutely destroyed here.¬† We could see a blue-heat move that carries the S&amp;P 500 somewhere between 1,700 and 1,730.¬† That would be the ideal pattern, but they don‚Äôt operate the market for my benefit so you have to take what they give you. I don‚Äôt think anybody can time the market on a consistent basis, but if you listen to the message of the stock market you sure as heck can decide when you should be ‚Äòplaying hard‚Äô and when you should not be playing as hard, and so I‚Äôm not playing that hard right here.‚Äù Saut also makes his bullish case for gold. Read more at KingWorldNews.com.
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. We've Seen A Classic Capitulation In Bank Holdings Of Treasuries (Gluskin Sheff) Commercial banks have cut exposure to Treasuries by $40 billion to a 13-month low. Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg writes that this is a "classic capitulation which could reverse course if the banks read Bernanke the way I do right now." "If this negative fund-flow effect reverses course, it could accentuate this current technical rally in bonds from their oversold levels. For those† that reside in the short-term and like to focus on contrary indicators, this immense negativity of late on bonds on the part of the banking sector is worth examining.† "The last time the banks sold down their bond positions this hard, this fast, was heading late into June 2011. Over the next two months, they yield on the 10-year T-note retreated from 3.2%, to 2.2%. Food for thought." Gluskin Sheff 2 Lessons On Investing From Daniel Kahneman (25iq) In a new post, Tren Griffin of 25iq, points out 12 things he's learned about investing from Daniel Kahneman, winner of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics. Here are two of those lessons that pertain to wealth management.† 1. ìI actually am a believer in index funds. Öif you donít have very specific information, which some say youíre not allowed to have, you better not kid yourself that you can pick individual stocks.î 2. ìFor a large majority of fund managers, the selection of stocks is more like rolling dice than like playing poker.î† The Benefits Of Trusteed IRAs (The Wall Street Journal) Individual Retirement Account (IRA) beneficiary planning is extremely important according to Julie Jason of Connecticut-based Jackson, Grant Investment Advisers. Jason argues that Trusteed IRA's let clients put limitations on IRAs and their beneficiaries.† "It works like much like a conduit trust, but you don't have to have a lawyer draft the document. For example, many heirs don't understand that the money they withdraw from an inherited IRA will be taxed. Trusteed IRAs can protect against this by limiting the ability of heirs to withdraw more than the required minimum distributions. "Many heirs also don't understand the tax deferral benefits of an IRA, so trusteed IRAs are a primary mechanism to ensure that the next generation stretches the IRA and continues to maximize those tax-deferred benefits. This vehicle can also protect the IRA in the case of divorce or a lawsuit and limit the possibility that the IRA will go to someone the client doesn't want it to go to." FINRA's Lobbying Expenses Decline (Investment News) FINRA's lobbying expenses came in at $220,000 in the second quarter, bringing advocacy expenses for federal lawmakers to $450,000 so far this year, according to Investment News. This is down from $550,000 for the same period in 2012. But the self-regulator's lobbying expenses still surpass that of investment advisor groups. Ultra-Wealthy Investors Are Going To Lap Up Global Stocks This Year According To A New IPI Survey (Think Advisor) A survey from the Institute for Private Investors (IPI) showed that its "ultra affluent members" are bullish on stocks. 69 families with assets of $30 million or more† took part in the survey which showed that 63% planned to increase their position in global stocks this year, and 53% in domestic stocks. Growth was the primary objective of 51% of respondents, principal protection was the primary objective of 36%, compared with 13% for income.
Working incessantly to achieve career success is ¬†frequently prioritized above mental health and personal obligations.¬† While balancing work and life might not be easy early in one's career, figuring it out is necessary to lifelong satisfaction. We've rounded up ways CEOs and other leaders find balance, stay sharp, stay happy, and don't burn out.
Outspoken NBA hall of fame member Sir Charles Barkley joined CNBC's Maria Bartiromo on the "Closing Bell" for a tremendous interview.† We've included some of his insights on jobs, the market and life below. He also weighed in on the George Zimmerman trial and agreed that he should have been acquitted.† On the only jobs in the world that count:† "Well, Maria, no disrespect to you. There's only five real jobs in the world ó teacher, farmer, policemen, doctor and somebody's who's in the armed service. Everybody else can just shut the hell up and enjoy life. You know, I think those five jobs are really important and significant. If you don't have one of those jobs, you shouldn't take yourself that serious." On investing in the market and protecting your wealth:† Barkley: "I do have money in this market. The key, when you have money, I'm not bragging just blessed to have money, you probably want to risk only 20, 25% of it. You know 70% you just want to put in safe stuff. You know 70% of professional athletes go broke."† †
Gas prices are up about 4% this week†and now stand at $3.67. That shouldn't be, according to Auto Nation CEO Mike Jackson. In an appearance on CNBC's "Squawk Box," he argued that long-running trends suggest gas prices should be way lower:  "For the life of me, I can't understand why gasoline is $3.50 a gallon. Miles driven is below the peak of '07, and oil is gushing out all over America. So we have dramatically increased supply and people are driving more fuel efficient cars. So any common sense would say gas prices are coming down." All of that is true. But let's break things down a little bit more. Treehugger via UMichigan Mark Perry FRED † So why are gas prices up this week? Gasoline prices closely track the Brent crude index, which saw a large run-up at the beginning of the month thanks to Middle East unrest. "World geopolitics has added risk to oil, raising prices,î†Trilby Lundberg, president of Lundberg Survey, told Bloomberg's Barbara Powell and David Wethe Monday. ìU.S. refiners have passed oil price hikes through to their jobbers and retailers, mostly in the past three days, so that moderate price hikes at the pump are imminent. There have also been outages at refineries†that have driven prices upward, Futures Mag's Phil Flynn reports: RBOB soared on rumors that a Canadian refiner was in the cash market buying product. ...†three refineries that serve the New York Harbor market have units shut or slowed. Irving Oil Corp. has shut multiple units, including two fluid catalytic crackers, at its St. John, New Brunswick, plant, Genscape Inc., a Louisville, Kentucky-based energy information provider, reported yesterday. It's difficult to say where prices will go in the short term.† But the bigger picture is clear: it won't go much higher.
REUTERS/JasonRatings firm Moody's raised its outlook on the United States on Thursday to "stable" from "negative," citing progress in putting the federal government's debt on a more sustainable path. Moody's "today moved the outlook on the Aaa government bond rating of the United States back to stable, replacing the negative outlook that has been in place since August 2011," the company said in a statement. Moody's also pointed out the top triple-A rating was still warranted on US sovereign debt. Moody's said the outlook upgrade reflected its view "that the federal government's debt trajectory is on track to meet the criteria laid out in August 2011 for a return to a stable outlook." The improvement removed the downward pressure on the rating, it said. "The US budget deficits have been declining and are expected to continue to decline over the next few years. "Furthermore, the growth of the US economy, which, while moderate, is currently progressing at a faster rate compared with several Aaa peers and has demonstrated a degree of resilience to major reductions in the growth of government spending," the company said. For those reasons, Moody's said, the US government's ratio of debt to gross domestic product will fall more sharply through 2018 than the company had estimated when it downgraded the outlook nearly two years ago. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved.
Ryan Williams, a former spokesman for Mitt Romney's campaign, took a few shots at President Barack Obama amid news of Detroit's bankruptcy filing late Thursday afternoon. Williams linked to a story of Obama saying last October ‚Äî amid a heated presidential campaign ‚Äî that he "refused to let Detroit go bankrupt." *Ahem* RT @TheStalwart: DETROIT FILES LARGEST MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY IN HISTORY http://t.co/WEEoEFxwhB Romney opposed an auto bailout in a November 2008 op-ed in the New York Times, which was memorably titled, "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt." That op-ed argued¬†arguing that General Motors and Chrysler should be put through a managed bankruptcy process instead of getting a taxpayer bailout, and had nothing to do with a municipal bailout. Detroit became the largest U.S. city in history to file for bankruptcy,¬†as the state-appointed emergency manager filed for Chapter 9 protection in a federal bankruptcy court. A big population drop ‚Äî and a big drop in its tax base ‚Äî were the biggest factors contributing to its dreadful financial situation, according to the bankruptcy filing.¬†
REUTERS Detroit just became the largest American city ever to file for bankruptcy. The city is staring down a $20 billion unfunded liability vortex. Meanwhile, crime, unemployment and broken infrastructure remain endemic. But we're banking on the city getting its act together ‚Äî and it's not just because things can't get any worse. We've put together 25 signs Detroit is on the mend. Here's the summary: Hear us out.
REUTERS/Lee Jae-WonA teacher gives a lecture at a cram school in a Goshichon, which means "exam village" in Seoul, South Korea. In a massive new study published by the McKinsey Global Institute, Susan Lund, James Manyika, Scott Nyquist, Lenny Mendonca, and Sreenivas Ramaswamy discuss the five opportunities for U.S. growth and renewal. Among other things, they have a lengthy discussion about America's education system and how it has yielded some of the most underperforming students in the developed world. They believe that an impending wave of teacher retirements presents an opportunity to get some top-notch educators into the system. From McKinsey: The US teaching profession is poised to experience a wave of turnover, and now is the time to step up efforts to retain the best teachers and attract a new generation of top talent. There are currently 3.3 million public school teachers, but some 40 percent are expected to retire over the next decade, and another 400,000 are expected to leave for other reasons. By 2020, more than 50 percent of the current teachers in US schools will have begun their careers after 2012. With a new generation of teachers entering the classroom, this is a unique opportunity to raise the quality of classroom instruction by changing recruitment approaches and providing a new level of coaching, mentoring, and training to build teaching skills in the critical first five years on the job. Of course, the issue is providing the right incentives to motivate people to pursue the career track: Raising the quality of instruction starts with recruiting exceptional students into the teaching profession. Realizing meaningful gains will hinge on addressing the factors that have discouraged many candidates from entering the profession in the past: lack of a career ladder, low respect for the profession, low pay, and variable principal quality. A recent McKinsey survey of 1,600 high-performing college students found that just 9 percent wanted to go into teaching. While pay isn't everything, it is something.¬† And the authors provide some interesting global comparisons that show where the U.S. lags considerably: US high school teachers are paid 72 percent as much as all college graduates in the workforce, while in other OECD countries, that figure is 90 percent (Exhibit 35). But making teaching more attractive is not simply a matter of money: professional development is also essential (especially for new teachers and those who work in troubled schools). A meta-analysis of 1,300 studies found that students scored 21 percentage points higher than average on standardized tests when their instructors received more professional support and training. Studies show that when training is ongoing, collaborative, and driven by relationships with individual coaches, it is most effective at helping teachers raise student achievement. McKinsey "Countries with exceptional student achievement treat teaching as a highly selective profession that is accorded tremendous prestige and competitive compensation," wrote the authors. "Only the very best students are admitted into teaching programs in Singapore, Finland, and South Korea, for example, and standards are especially high for elementary school teachers" "The United States could consider options such as college grants for high-performing students who choose teaching, to remove the obstacle of future student loan debt," they add. "But regardless of the mechanisms chosen, teachers should be celebrated and respected as skilled professionals who provide a vital public service." Some things to consider.
Kevin Smith/Business InsiderGoogle CEO Larry Page.Google's earnings for Q2 2013 are out! It's a miss. Here are the results:
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidFast-casual restaurant chain Chipotle Mexican Grill beat Wall Street analysts' earnings and revenue estimates this afternoon.¬† The stock is trading up more than 5.6% in the after-hours trading session.¬† This isn't good news for David Einhorn, who is short Chipotle. ¬† The stock is up more than 24% since October 2, 2012 when he recommended shorting the company at the Value Investing Congress.¬† At the VIC, he said the biggest challenge Chipotle faces is competition from Taco Bell, which has a much lower price point and has been successful with its Doritos Locos Tacos.¬† We've haven't heard him speak about the Chipotle short lately. ¬†It's possible he could have covered.¬† He's not the only one who is recommending shorting the stock, though. Bond god Jeff Gundlach called a "gourmet burrito an oxymoron"¬†earlier this year.¬† Here's how the stock has performed since October 2:¬† via Yahoo! Finance
Business Insider Detroit has filed for bankruptcy, the AP's Ken Thomas reports. The full filing can be found below. "Right now, the City cannot meet its basic obligations to its citizens," Gov. Rick Snyder, who signed off on the filing, said in the petition. He added, "Right now, the City cannot meet its obligations to creditors."¬† This means a judge will now have to sort out which entities Detroit owes money to will get their money back.¬† The move proved inevitable after two municipal pension funds sued city emergency manager Kevyn Orr. It's the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history, dwarfing Jefferson County, Ala.'s $3.1 billion sewage district restructuring.¬† In June 2012, the City of Stockton became the largest-ever city to file for bankruptcy, at the time.¬† The Motor City faces¬†$20 billion of long-term liabilities. The Wall Street Journal's Matt Dillon says those holding onto $11 billion in unsecured debt are basically staring into the abyss, facing the prospect of getting next to nothing from the city's obligations.¬† The pension funds want to block Orr's attempt to drastically reduce the amount of benefits owed to current and former city workers.¬† The funds are fully aware that they could still face such cuts even if the city is forced to go to court, but say they'd prefer to fight the cuts there. Here's the Freep's cut from their suit: It appears imminent the governor will grant the emergency manager the unconditional power to proceed under Chapter 9 (bankruptcy) and the emergency manager will seek to have the city‚Äôs pension debts impaired pursuant to Chapter 9 unless the retirement systems and their participants accept the emergency manager‚Äôs unilateral imposition of significant impairments to their accrued financial benefits. Detroit News' Robert Snell Tweets the city has listed more than 100,000 creditors. Detroit Chapter 9 Bankruptcy Filing - WXYZ by webteam2410 
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonChipotle Mexican Grill's second quarter financial results are out. The fast food chain reported earnings of $2.82 per share, slightly above estimates for $2.81 EPS. Revenues also came in above expectations, at $816.8 million versus $802.77 million. The company said same-store sales increased 5.5% during the second quarter. Shares are up nearly 6% in after-hours trading. Below is the full text from the release. ------------------------------------- DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (CMG) today reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2013. Highlights for the second quarter of 2013 as compared to the second quarter of 2012 include: Highlights for the six months ended June 30, 2013 as compared to the prior year include: ‚ÄúThis month marks Chipotle‚Äôs 20th¬†anniversary. What started out as one restaurant serving burritos and tacos, has evolved into a national brand which is changing the way people think about and eat fast food. Our vision has connected with our loyal customers, who visit Chipotle to enjoy great tasting food made from premium ingredients. It's rewarding to look back and see what we've accomplished, but it's even more inspiring to think about what lies ahead over the next twenty years.‚Äù said Steve Ells, Founder, Chairman and co-CEO of Chipotle. Second quarter 2013 results Revenue for the quarter was $816.8 million, up 18.2% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and a 5.5% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was driven by increased traffic and from the benefit of one additional trading day in the quarter as compared to the second quarter of 2012. During the quarter we opened 44 new restaurants, bringing the total restaurant count to 1,502. Food costs were 33.1% of revenue, an increase of 100 basis points driven by higher commodity costs. Higher commodity costs were driven by increased prices for all of our salsa ingredients, as well as for dairy items and chicken. These increases were partially offset by lower avocado prices. Restaurant level operating margin was 27.6% in the quarter, a decrease of 160 basis points from the prior year period. The decrease was primarily driven by higher food and marketing costs. General and administrative expenses were 6.2% of revenue, an increase of 10 basis points due to higher legal and payroll costs partially offset by favorable sales leverage. Net income for the first quarter of 2013 was $87.9 million, or $2.82 per diluted share, compared to $81.7 million, or $2.56 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2012. Income taxes were negatively impacted by non-recurring tax adjustments that reduced earnings by $0.03 per share. Results for the six months ended June 30, 2013 Revenue for the first six months of 2013 was $1.54 billion, up 15.9% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and a 3.4% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was primarily driven by increased traffic. During the first six months of the year, we opened 92 new restaurants, bringing the total restaurant count to 1,502. Restaurant level operating margin was 27.0% for the first six months, a decrease of 130 basis points from the prior year period. The decrease was primarily from higher food costs and higher marketing costs. General and administrative expense for the first six months of 2013 was 6.2% of revenue, or a decrease of 70 basis points from the prior year period. The decrease was from lower stock based compensation expense and lower employee related payroll taxes. Net income for the first six months of 2013 was $164.4 million, or $5.27 per diluted share, compared to $144.3 million, or $4.53 per diluted share, in the first six months of 2012. ‚ÄúWe are delighted with our strong financial performance during the second quarter. We know that empowered cultures create excellent teams, who deliver a special dining experience for each customer who visits Chipotle. They attract great employees and develop them to be the very best leaders from within the organization, which not only supports our great operations, but also makes our strong performance sustainable as we add more restaurants,‚Äù said Monty Moran, co-CEO Outlook For 2013, management expects the following: Definitions The following definitions apply to these terms as used throughout this release: Comparable restaurant sales¬†represent the change in period-over-period sales for the comparable restaurant base. A restaurant becomes comparable in its 13th¬†full calendar month of operation. Average restaurant sales¬†refers to the average trailing 12-month sales for restaurants in operation for at least 12 full calendar months. Restaurant level operating margin¬†represents total revenue less restaurant operating costs, expressed as a percent of total revenue. Conference Call Chipotle will host a conference call to discuss the second quarter 2013 financial results on Thursday, July 18, 2013 at 4:30 PM Eastern time. The conference call can be accessed live over the phone by dialing 1-888-337-8192 or for international callers by dialing 1-719-325-2284. A replay will be available one hour after the call and can be accessed by dialing 1-877-870-5176 or 1-858-384-5517 for international callers; the password is 6035922. The replay will be available until July 25, 2013. The call will be webcast live from the company's website at chipotle.com under the investor relations section. An archived webcast will be available one hour after the end of the call.
Microsoft's numbers are out. It's a big miss due to the collapse of the PC market. EPS is $0.59, versus expectations of $0.75. In the release, Microsoft says it's taking a $900 million charge,¬†or a $0.07 per share impact,¬†due to the Surface RT inventory adjustments.¬† If don't include the RT charge, then its EPS is $0.66, which is still a very big miss. Revenue is $19.9 billion versus expectations of $20.72 billion. The stock is down 4.85% after-market. CFO Amy Hood said in the release, "While our fourth quarter results were impacted by the decline in the PC market, we continue to see strong demand for our enterprise and cloud offerings ... While we have work ahead of us, we are making the focused investments needed to deliver on long-term growth opportunities like cloud services." Here is a breakdown of the numbers: Screenshot
ShutterstockThe relentless bull market keeps charging higher. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
On the 2008 mortgage crisis, from my perspective Ok friends, are you ready?¬† I‚Äôm about to piss you off. Contrary to the dominant journalistic narrative of the 2008 Crisis ‚Äì that greedy bankers and their Wall Street enablers tricked the poor and gullible into predatory loans on their homes which led to foreclosures and economic misery ‚Äì I think borrowers mostly caused the mortgage crisis. Obviously this is a deeply unpopular thing to say, and cuts against the grain of ‚Äúlittle guy = good‚Äù and ‚Äúbig bank = bad,‚Äù and it appears at first blush that I‚Äôm blaming the victim.¬† I sympathize with homeowners who lost their jobs and then possibly their homes and clearly many were victims of forces beyond their control.¬† But I‚Äôm still gonna piss you off. Borrower as ‚Äúinnocent victim‚Äù myth I really just mean to point out that a whole lot of borrowers were not innocent victims, but rather perpetrators of mortgage fraud.¬† Many of these folks were investors, speculators, flippers, and just Hail-Mary passers hoping short-term real estate inflation could cover their terrible financial positions. I mean to call out the people who knew they didn‚Äôt really have a chance at paying back their loans under ordinary circumstances, except maybe extraordinary price appreciation.¬† I mean people who got ‚Äúno income, no asset‚Äù loans knowing that income and asset disclosure would tank their chance to borrow a lot of money.¬† I mean people who, with almost no money down, bought an option to ride the upside of real estate appreciation but who risked no real equity when the market went sideways and then south. I don‚Äôt believe I‚Äôm an extremist in this view, I am a realist. Bankers getting stoopid Yes, mortgage underwriting standards slipped from ‚Äúloose‚Äù to ‚Äústoopid‚Äù somewhere between 2004 and 2007, with ARMS, sub-prime loans, interest-only loans, and liar-loans expanding from niche products for niche situations to dominant products crowding out sensible mortgage loans, eventually clogging up the sewage pipelines of global finance.¬† One of¬†my earliest podcast interviews for this site was with a mortgage underwriter¬†who got out of the business just as the ridiculousness started to take over. But despite this, and contrary to the dominant journalistic narrative, banks do not make money when they lend money to people who will not, or cannot, pay them back.¬† Lending to a borrower who cannot pay back the loan is not a profitable strategy. ¬†I‚Äôve never met a banker who wanted to take back someone‚Äôs home.¬† It‚Äôs a ticket straight to financial destruction for the bank.[1] Yes, bankers are profit-oriented, and yes they got briefly stoopid, but banks generally get only a few years to make these kinds of terrible underwriting and financial modeling decisions, after which, the inexorable gravity of finance pulls them down, punishes them, and makes them pay.[2] Borrowers too acted from a combination of greed and stupidity, taking out loans they should never have taken. Homeownership is not a fundamental right of citizenship.¬† It‚Äôs a choice that‚Äôs right for some people, but financially catastrophic for others, because¬†home ownership is risky.¬† A mortgage contract confers opportunity, but also demands responsibility. And yes, I get it, it‚Äôs harder to blame the individual borrower who lost her job, her credit and then her home, than it is to blame the overpaid financiers and their banking institutions.¬† Obviously the underwater and foreclosed borrower is a far more sympathetic character than the slick mortgage bond investor or the bank.¬† But just because we feel for the little guy or gal doesn‚Äôt mean we should misunderstand shared responsibility for the mortgage crisis of 2008. I understand better than most the terrible mistakes and greed of Wall Street.¬† I was there, and¬†I‚Äôve written about some of it here.¬† I‚Äôll be the first to say I think the¬†ongoing coddling of Wall Street and unsolved TBTF problem¬†remains a black mark on the Obama administration.¬† But if we don‚Äôt acknowledge the shared responsibility of predatory borrowers then we don‚Äôt learn the right lessons from the mortgage crisis. Although I disagree with much of his politics, Edward Conard in his¬†Unintended Consequences¬†debunks ‚Äì better than anything else I‚Äôve read ‚Äì the flawed journalistic narrative on the mortgage crisis of 2008. I know I‚Äôm going to piss people off when I write this, because it‚Äôs impolite to lay responsibility on the individual homeowner who had the most to lose. Selling mortgages from bank to bank What about the fact that mortgages get sold and reassigned to banks that didn‚Äôt even underwrite the loans? Recently a neighbor told me a story ‚Äì with a straight face ‚Äì that an acquaintance of hers received notice from a bank of imminent foreclosure on her house.¬† The acquaintance claimed to have made all of her mortgage payments, but the mortgage¬†had been sold to another bank, which hadn‚Äôt received her monthly payments.¬† My neighbor was shocked about the mortgage having been sold to another bank, and wholly believed her friend would lose her home. I remained outwardly sympathetic and pleasant, but let me tell you what I was really thinking. To dispose of the last point first, the fact that the mortgage was sold to another bank is irrelevant.¬† You know why?¬† Because practically every single mortgage in this country is sold from one bank to another. Unless you got a mortgage from one of four banks ‚Äì Wells Fargo, Bank of America, Citibank, or JP Morgan Chase ‚Äì you can be absolutely certain your mortgage will either be sold or serviced by a different bank.[3]¬†¬†Look at your mortgage statements.¬† Is that the bank that gave you your mortgage?¬† Probably not. But but but ‚Äì ¬†I hear the objections to the original point ‚Äì what about all those mortgage bank robo-signers in the foreclosure mills?¬† What about foreclosure mistakes, in which people lose their homes due to bank error? Ah, yes, the myth of foreclosure mistakes. The myth of mistaken foreclosure I just do not believe in the myth of mistaken foreclosure. I say this with confidence for a couple of reasons. Through my business I‚Äôve invested in many mortgages myself, a great number of which became delinquent.[4] It takes between 6 months and a few years to enforce unpaid debts.¬† Thousands of dollars in attorney fees are followed by months of notices, certified mail, and disclosures to homeowners in arrears.¬† Unlike a Hobbesian life, mortgage foreclosure is nasty, brutish, and¬†long.¬† If the lender pressing foreclosure misses any steps along the way, you pass directly to Go, do not collect $200, and the foreclosure process can be held up indefinitely. Look, we live in an extremely litigious society.¬† There are thousands of consumer rights‚Äô lawyers ready to take on a big juicy target like a bank for mistakenly foreclosing on a homeowner¬†who has faithfully made mortgage payments¬†but who lost his home due to bank error.¬† Any homeowner who got mistakenly foreclosed upon by a bank is not a homeless loser but holds a golden ticket to financial paradise. A mistaken foreclosure is a Golden Ticket for the homeowner? Has this ex-banker forgotten his meds? No. If Bankers-Anonymous readers can refer me to a homeowner tricked out of her home, or mistakenly foreclosed upon¬†who remained current on her mortgage,[5]¬†I will find a lawyer who will win millions of dollars for that homeowner from the bank.¬† If you can find me more than once instance nationwide ‚Äì let‚Äôs just say a few dozen ‚Äì we will all retire just on the referral fees to the class action lawyers alone. How much can we make the banks pay?¬† $100 million?¬† $200 million? Maybe more.¬† Some percentage of that would be fine by me. But it‚Äôs never going to happen, because it‚Äôs a big fat myth. Mortgage settlements with big banks But wait, what about the hundreds of millions of dollars in penalties Wall Street banks have paid in the past 5 years to attorneys general for mortgage underwriting errors or fraud?¬† Doesn‚Äôt that prove Wall Street and the mortgage banks were cheating and predatory? No.¬† It proves only that securities firms cannot afford to get crossways with securities regulators.¬† Not a single mortgage case filed by the government against the big banks in the past 5 years has ever gone to trial. The banks‚Äô attorneys immediately ask for a settlement, put aside a big chunk of money, and try to move on.Being sued by the government for securities fraud is such a business-quashing situation that no bank can remain there for long.¬† Their lawyers just reach for the corporate wallet and ask the regulators what it‚Äôs going to take, and then they move on. Conclusion I‚Äôm not trying to be the mean jerk here by blaming the borrowers.¬† Clearly homeowners suffered, and they suffered individually more than the bankers.¬† But we need a clearer-headed analysis of the cause of the mortgage crisis ‚Äì or at least a more balanced view of where to place the blame.[6] I think we‚Äôve bought into an imbalanced journalistic narrative, and we draw the wrong lessons for the future as a result. Postscript to the Conclusion On this same issue of ‚Äòwho to blame?‚Äô the mortgage crisis strongly resembles the internet crash of 2000 and then-Attorney General Spitzer‚Äôs campaign to blame internet analysts.¬† As always, Michael Lewis said it best,¬†in this classic New York Times Magazine article.¬† If you choose the politically convenient target ‚Äì mean, nasty, banks and their forked-tongue research analysts ‚Äì rather than the fact that investors are greedy, working with imperfect information, and should be held responsible for their own investment decisions, then you learn the wrong lessons.¬† And you end up with a bullying hypocrite for a New York Governor, among other consequences.[7] In the case of the mortgage crisis, exclusively blaming the banks for loose lending standards leads to, among other things: So let‚Äôs consider the whole picture of responsibility, however unpalatable it may¬†seem. Also, see previous posts on Mortgages: Part I ‚Äì I refinanced my mortgage and today I‚Äôm a Golden God Part II ‚Äì Should I pay my mortgage early? Part III ‚Äì Why are 15-year mortgages cheaper than 30-year mortgages? Part IV ‚Äì What are Mortgage Points?¬† Are they good, bad or indifferent? Part V ‚Äì Is mortgage debt ‚Äògood debt‚Äô A dangerous drug?¬† Or Both? Part VI ‚Äì Mortgage bond creation on Wall Street Part VII ‚Äì Mortgage Derivatives [1]¬†When they don‚Äôt get paid back, banks have to start a foreclosure process, which is long, costly, and uncertain.¬† Then when they do obtain the property, more often than not the bank sells it for a loss.¬† It‚Äôs a terrible situation.¬† Banks don‚Äôt like to own properties.¬†¬†They want Tuppence. [2]¬†And then they call up daddy Paulson, and say ‚ÄòDaddy, start writing checks!‚Äô¬† Yes, I realize banks got unfairly bailed out.¬† That too drives me nuts.¬† But I‚Äôm talking right now about the causes of the crisis, not the consequences. [3]¬†And even if you did get your mortgage underwritten by one of those four, it‚Äôs highly likely your mortgage will be reassigned into a mortgage bond structure, often with a different servicer.¬†¬†For more on the way the mortgage bond sausage is made, I recommend this primer. [4]¬†In a related piece of news, I‚Äôm no longer a hedge fund manager. ¬†Rather, I‚Äôm stacking mad chips as a blogger. [5]¬†‚ÄúRemained current on her mortgage‚Äù is the key clause of this whole thing.¬† I define a foreclosure mistake as a situation in which the homeowner who actually paid the mortgage, but lost the home.¬† Yes, lots of people lost their home after not paying on the mortgage, and that‚Äôs tragic all around.¬† But that‚Äôs not the bank taking advantage of people, that‚Äôs the bank following through on its signed, written contract, which contract has been thrown into default for non-payment. [6]¬†On this same issue of ‚Äòwho to blame?‚Äô the mortgage crisis strongly resembles the internet crash of 2000 and then-Attorney General Spitzer‚Äôs campaign to blame internet analysts.¬† As always, Michael Lewis said it best,¬†in this classic New York Times Magazine article.¬† If you choose the politically convenient target ‚Äì mean banks and their forked tongue research analysts ‚Äì rather than the fact that investors are greedy and working with imperfect information and should be held responsible for their own investment decisions, then you learn the wrong lessons.¬† And you end up with a bullying hypocrite for a New York Governor, among other consequences. [7]¬†And then after he‚Äôs exposed for what he is, you get him back, as Comptroller of New York City.



Kickstarter/Bitcoin: The MovieA crop of Bitcoin enthusiasts has†launched a Kickstarter campaign to create a†film about the digital currency. "Bitcoin: The Movie" will require a minimum of $100,000 to make (but they'll amp up international coverage if donations reach $150-200,000). "The fact that Bitcoin is relatively unknown can also act as the catalyst to making a good film," would-be producer Andrew Wong writes. "A good Bitcoin documentary will play an important role in educating the public and helping them adopt to a new currency." The team is offering the usual Kickstarter swag for donations†ó Tshirt, posters, DVDs, private screenings, your name in the credits, etc. Bitcoin reached highs north of $250 before a calamitous fall in April. This week it is trading at around $90. Though it's off its early July lows, the digital currency's major problem has always been confidence. Presumably, a film would help elucidate Bitcoin's benefits (and shortfalls) for a wider audience. In a cruel twist, however, Kickstarter does not accept Bitcoin donations. Watch the pitch below:  
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueAfter a stratospheric spring surge into the $200s, Bitcoin prices slumped to six-month lows of about $70 in early July, and have been now hovering around $90 for the past week.¬† That's despite the double cannonball executed by the Winklevoss Twins last month with their creation of a Bitcoin ETF.¬† So what happened to the great Bitcoin renaissance? We reached out to Alan Silbert, CEO of luxury goods retailer BitPremier, for some guidance.¬† In short, it's suffering from regulatory uncertainty and surging stocks. Here's Silbert:¬† I think potential buyers are sitting on the sidelines now while issues play out with Mt. Gox and the next exchanges to come online, regulatory developments, and companies deciding to shut down because of the regulatory burden. ¬†Meanwhile, I know that a bunch of activity is percolating in the background with new bitcoin startups taking shape. So I see it as a kind of transitional period right now. ¬†Plus the US equity markets keep hitting record highs and investor dollars are going there.¬† And here's what he had to say about the Winklevoss Twins: The Winklevoss ETF is going to have to go through a lengthy registration process with the SEC and also market to authorized participants to sign-on to the concept (might be telling you something you already know: large financial institutions that essentially make the market, oil the machine, and take some risk for the arbitrage opportunities). ¬†This will take a while and the ETF may not happen in the foreseeable future, especially if they can't convince authorized participants to sign on, so it takes a lot of the kick out of the press release. ¬†The press has also been pretty negative on the Winklevoss ETF. Bottom line: there's a whole lot of uncertainty that has yet to play out before people decide to bet on Bitcoin in either direction. For reference, the chart from Mt. Gox: Mt Gox ¬† Here's a long-term look at Bitcoin via ClarkMoody.com. The massive spike in the middle of the chart occurred in mid-April. Clark Moody
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderThe seal on the beach.For most of this month, I'm working from Business Insider's beach office, which is located on a small island off the coast of Massachusetts (Nantucket). It's hot here, which means it must be absolutely miserable back at BI headquarters in New York City. So my gratitude and sympathy goes out to my colleagues and tens of millions of other folks who are working in the city and stifling mainland instead of here. (There's no air conditioning here, if that's any consolation. At least not at the BI office.) There has been some local news here that I figured you might find interesting. For example, the beach erosion on a small section of the island, which many people assume is exacerbated by climate change, has become so severe that a bunch of $5-$10 million houses are about to fall into the Atlantic. The folks who own these houses, who are mostly summer residents who draw their salaries from the global economy, have been begging the town to let them spend millions of dollars of their own money to build a "hard armor" seawall on the beach to slow or stop the erosion. But year-round residents, who draw their salaries from the local economy, are opposed to that idea, in part, some suspect, because the year-round residents are quietly enjoying the spectacle of the well-off folks who invade their island every summer finally being confronted with something that they can't buy or control. Vanity FairWilliam Cohan's Vanity Fair article about the beach erosion in Nantucket and Malibu: "From Coast To Toast." Click the picture to read...Vanity Fair's William Cohan, who lives on the affected bluff, and whose own house will soon plunge into the Atlantic if the erosion isn't stopped, wrote an impressively restrained story about this confrontation in this month's issue. If you're interested, you can check that out here. Another thing that happened here recently is that, during a community beach potluck a couple of nights ago, a seal hopped up out of the surf. It was a grey seal, Google said.¬† The seal pulled itself up out of the waves, flopped down on the dry sand above the water line, and then began to stretch and yawn. Naturally, a crowd of adults and kids immediately gathered around the seal. The seal looked at several faces in the crowd, stretched and yawned some more, and then began rubbing its face with its absurdly dexterous, anthropomorphic, and charismatic flippers. If you've ever stopped by the Central Park Zoo and watched the sea lion show, you'll know exactly what the seal was doing. And you'll also know how cute the seal was. Someone soon spoiled the moment by theorizing that the seal was obviously sick or dying--why else would it crawl up on to a beach full of people and seem unperturbed by them? So someone else called a seal expert on a cell phone. No, the seal expert said, the seal probably just wanted to take a nap. That mollified the concerned crowd for a while, but after another hour went by, and the seal's fur dried out, and the seal still seemed listless and unbothered by the people around it, some of the kids at the potluck got anxious again. This time, the seal expert could not be located to reassure the kids that the seal wasn't about to die. In the end, one of the kids couldn't bear to watch anymore and went home in tears. In any event... This seal thing has exploded into another major controversy on the island, one that represents another hurdle in the ongoing interaction between man and nature. Thirty years ago, there were no seals on Nantucket. There were just waves and fish. The seals came back a decade or two ago. And now, on some parts of the island, if you watch the ocean carefully, you'll see one float by every once in a while, with its head sticking out of the water like a dog's. If you go to a remote section of the island called "Great Point," meanwhile, you'll see hundreds of seals. The seals love Great Point, because there's a huge rip-tide that attracts and traps fish, making the surf off the point a veritable cafeteria. When they're not wolfing down fish in the rip, the seals at Great Point are napping on the beach. And, of course, these seals are cute--the very definition of "charismatic mega-fauna" whose prosperity and freedom armchair environmentalists everywhere love to champion. ¬†But there are hundreds of them now--in a small, popular location. ¬†And, of course, they're peeing and crapping all over the place. Great Point also used to be one of the most popular human-fishing spots on the island. But now that the seals have taken over, the fish are scarcer and hard to catch. And when you do hook one, frequent fisherman say, you'd better hope a seal isn't floating nearby. Because there's no easier meal for a seal than gulping down a striped bass or bluefish that a fisherman has distracted by trying to haul it up on the beach. And, of course, the proliferation of seals in the waters around the island has also attracted the attention of the next rung of the aquatic food chain--namely, Great White Sharks. And human swimmers on the island aren't wild about that. So now there's this big fight going on about the seals. Some commercial fishermen and others regard them as a polluting, dangerous menace. Others think they're a sign that man and nature are once again living in greater harmony. It's not clear what will happen to the seals. Or the houses on the bluff. I am happy to report, however, that the seal that flopped up on the sand during the beach potluck the other night did not expire in the middle of it. A couple of hours after he (she?) showed up, he/she flopped back down to the waves, hesitated for a moment (the water's cold!), and then plunged back in. The seal expert, it appears, was right. That particular grey seal, who has apparently gotten used to being the center of attention, just wanted to take a nap. So this one small interaction between man and nature, at least, turned out okay.
China released data earlier this week that confirmed an economic slowdown. Q2 GDP growth decelerated 7.5% from from 7.7% the previous quarter. The government has an official growth target of 7.5% for 2013. Some skeptics argue that the GDP numbers were almost too perfectly in line with targets and could be hiding a much worse underlying story. "I am probably not the only market commentator to find the China economic data curiously stable compared to the data volatility seen in developed economies," said Societe Generale's Albert Edwards in a new research note.† Here's more: "Monthly series like retail sales, industrial production, fixed asset investment and even the official PMI tend to move in a glacial fashion on a month-to-month basis. (Recent volatility in the trade data is due to the authorities clamping down on accounting arbitrage/irregularities). Either China is the most well-managed economy in the world or the data reporting is the most well managed in the world. "We all know though about the shortcomings of the official GDP data which the current premier Li Keqiang) described in 2007 as <U+0093>man-made and for reference only<U+0094>. Clearly this is also a heavily smoothed series. Do we really believe real GDP slowed to 7.5% from 7.7% in Q1 and 7.9% in Q4 last year? If so, it is about as interesting as watching paint dry." Edwards included this chart of GDP growth volatility for other major economies.† China seems suspiciously low. Business Insider/Societe Generale
* Average fund down 3.6 pct in H1 2013 * Follows losses in previous two years * Managers struggle to make money as¬†commodity¬†prices fall By Tommy Wilkes LONDON, July 18 (Reuters) - Funds betting on¬†commodity¬†price moves have lost money every month since January, their joint longest losing streak on record, raising more doubts about their ability to make money at a time when the commodity "supercycle" may be over. The average fund slid 3.58 percent in the first six months of the year, according to a widely watched Newedge commodity index. Funds have only suffered five consecutive losing months once before, in 2002-2003, the index shows. Hedge funds¬†market themselves as capable of making money in all¬†markets, yet funds trading¬†commodities¬†as varied as gold,¬†grains¬†and gas, have failed to turn an annual profit in the last three years. The weak performance will put more pressure on the industry to lower fees and introduce clawbacks, which enable investors to reclaim some performance perks paid to hedge fund managers in boom times if the returns they hope to achieve fail to continue. Worries about cooling demand in key¬†markets¬†like¬†China, and a huge shift in the supply-side from shortage to glut, has sent prices tumbling in recent years, and left many warning that the end of the commodity "supercycle" - the long period of rising commodity prices - is here. "Historically most of these funds have been a levered beta play on the commodity cycle, or in some cases arbitrageurs of commodity spreads," Michele Gesualdi, portfolio manager at hedge fund investor Kairos, said. "The end of the supercycle has hurt the first area, while the volatility and discrepancies that have arisen in forward markets have made life difficult for the second." Adding to the sector's woes, hedge funds which trade other asset classes such as equities have rebounded this year, including those that trade mining and energy shares. The $1 billion fund of Clive Capital, a firm which trades oil and ran about $5 billion at its peak, is down 3.5 percent to June 28, performance data shows. Krom River's Commodity Fund has lost 4.4 percent to end-June, while Brevan Howard's Commodities Strategies Fund is off 2.5 percent to June 28. Funds trading bullion are nursing some of the heaviest losses. Gold has tumbled this year on expectations the U.S. Federal Reserve will cut back on its money-printing programme, which had driven gold to record highs. John Paulson, the billionaire U.S. investor, has seen his gold fund, his smallest with $300 million in assets, plunge 23 percent in June and is down 65 percent this year. Despite the losses, most managers are not down as much as commodity prices this year - the 19-commodity Thomson Reuters-Jefferies CRB index fell 5.7 percent through end-June. Some have also shone. After losing 30 percent in 2011 and 7.6 percent and a big chunk of his assets in 2012, Mike Coleman's Merchant Commodity Fund is up 24.2 percent this year. But the bigger concern for commodity funds is proving they can consistently make money amid a sustained downward trend in prices. The problem, investors and managers say, is that the long, gradual trend of rising prices has been replaced with shorter, more uncertain trends, in which prices can plunge suddenly, making it difficult to profit from their slide. Commodity prices, down 22 percent from a 2011 peak, have entered bear market territory, while volatility - which some funds thrive on - has also fallen, challenging managers further. All the funds mentioned either declined to comment or could not immediately be reached for comment.
Sometimes¬†64,389 square feet just doesn't cut it. We've all been there. For billionaire Ira Rennert, it was time to add a pilates studio, spa bath, sauna, steam shower, and three extra bathrooms to one of the two pool houses on his Hamptons estate, Newsday reports. But in a bit of poetic justice, Rennert ‚Äî¬†who amassed his $6.5 billion net worth from junk bonds ‚Äî¬†needs zoning approval from the Village of¬†Sagaponack. From Newsday: The single bathroom at the pool "greatly under-serves a family social gathering," the application states. The closest bathroom in the main house "is over a 200-foot, several-minute, indirect walking distance away." The 633-square-foot addition to the existing 386-square-foot pool house "would complete the offerings of a modern, fully equipped family swimming facility," the application says. [Rennert's lawyer] Flanagan, in an interview, said, "Quite frankly, to walk several hundred feet to go to the bathroom is inappropriate." One of Rennert's neighbors summed the whole thing up pretty well: "Enough already." Read the full report at Newsday&gt;
REUTERS/James Lawler DugganU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke delivers his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress before the House Financial Services Committee in Washington, July 17, 2013.Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke began day two of his semi-annual Humphrey Hawkins congressional testimony with an appearance before the Senate Banking Committee at 10:30 AM ET. When asked what was behind the recent rise in long-term Treasury yields, Bernanke laid out three reasons. The first, he said, is improving U.S. economic data, especially those in the labor market. Bernanke then cited the unwinding of risky positions in the marketplace as another reason for the rise in yields, with the third reason being changing market interpretations of Fed policy. Yesterday's Q&amp;A with the House Financial Services Committee, which ran for more than two hours, didn't move markets much, as most of the discussion focused on fiscal and regulatory policy as opposed to monetary policy issues. However, the release of Bernanke's prepared remarks yesterday ahead of the testimony sent stocks and bonds higher, as markets interpreted his comments as "dovish."
CNBC's Jim Cramer spoke with U.S. attorney Preet Bharara yesterday at the network's Delivering Alpha conference about insider trading. (Bharara is one of those responsible for investigating insider trading on Wall Street.) As New York Magazine notes, during the talk, Cramer brought up Snapchat, the app that lets you send self-destructing photos and videos to friends, and said it could be used as a tool for insider trading. Bharara had no clue what Snapchat was, so Cramer explained it to him. It was all in context of a recent New York Magazine story that said Wall Street bankers are obsessed with Snapchat. Cramer took the story a step further yesterday, saying the app could be used to facilitate insider trading.

REUTERS/Benjamin MyersMuddy Waters founder Carson Block took communications powerhouse American Tower Corp to task on Bloomberg Market Makers yesterday. Block's research firm is out with a new report that casts doubt over AMT's work in emerging markets, hinting that the company has been misleading, if not outright fraudulent. "We rate AMT a Strong Sell and value it at $44.57 per share, representing downside of 40%," Muddy Waters writes in the report. "It has engaged in a value destroying investment binge overseas, and we have identified a significant material misstatement in the Company‚Äôs accounts that could amount to fraud." Muddy Waters flagged one transaction in particular, a $585 million purchase of towers in Brazil. "There is an approximately US$250 million discrepancy between what AMT claims to have paid for the acquisition of towers in Brazil, and the actual selling price," according to the report. Muddy Waters provided the research to the SEC.
You just have to laugh at this full page ad in the New York Times. There's not much to say, but talking about how gold is now "on sale" but that "experts" now predict $5,000 gold, while the Fed devalues the dollar (which hasa been strong) is just remarkable. Those who experience goldenfreude ‚Äî pleasures at the misfortune of gold bugs ‚Äî will love this. Great catch by Tom Gara, who tweeted the picture. Tom Gara
Gas prices are up 4.2%, or $0.15 per gallon, this week. And this has America's drivers confused. What happened to more fuel efficiency, lower vehicle miles driven, and gushing oil production? Well, there are three things to consider. First, gas prices may be up on the week, But the longer-term trend is down.¬† Here's what they've been doing year-over-year for the past five years: FRED They¬†are¬†down. Compared with June prices, current prices are only 1.7%, or about $0.07, higher. Second, U.S. gas prices are tied to Brent crude oil, an international oil benchmark which surged at the beginning of July as unrest escalated in Egypt and Libya, countries in the heart of the most important oil-producing region in the world. While production and shipments haven't been disrupted materially, the risk has caused energy traders to bid prices higher. Investing.com The good news is that things have calmed down a bit there. Third, a wave of U.S. refinery outages have caused some pressure on supplies. So prices could stay elevated for a little bit. But they're not likely to go much higher.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidShares of nutritional supplement-seller Herbalife are ripping today.¬† The stock was last trading up more than 5.8%. Mid-day yesterday, the New York Post's Michelle Celarier reported that the Federal Trade Commission told consumer groups that it found some of Herbalife's practices "disturbing." The FTC didn't tell those in attendance at the meeting if they were launching an investigation, the Post's report said.¬† Then, after the market close yesterday billionaire investor Carl Icahn, who is long the stock, sat down with CNBC host Scott Wapner at the Delivering Alpha conference.¬† Icahn, who is a long-time rival of fund manager Bill Ackman, said that he hasn't sold a share. He said that he has bought more of the stock.¬† Herbalife is the company that Ackman is famously shorting. Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, is shorting a billion dollars worth of the stock. ¬†He believes the company is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower-income people and that regulators will be induced to investigate it.¬† Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short position, shares of Herbalife have risen more than 22%.¬†¬† Check out what the stock is doing today:¬† Yahoo! Finance
A headline is crossing now that's causing Honeywell shares to dive. "Honeywell transmitter likely cause of 787 fire, UK AAIB says," reports Bloomberg. This relates to the Boeing 787 Dreamliner fire at London's Heathrow Airport last week. Here's the intraday move via Yahoo Finance. Yahoo Finance
During the Q&amp;A, Icahn was candid and made the room full of hedge funders and institutional investors crack up. The billionaire investor was much more likeable than he was just a few months ago during his epic brawl on CNBC with Bill Ackman when he was cursing and hurling nasty insults.† Aside from the humor, Icahn revealed what prompted him to amass a huge position in nutrition supplement-seller Herbalife. †It wasn't just because he dislikes rival fund manager Bill Ackman, he said. Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square, publicly revealed in December that his fund is shorting a billion dollars worth of Herbalife with a price target of $0. Ackman believes the company is a "pyramid scheme" and that regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will be induced to investigate it.† Upon learning of Ackman's position in Herbalife and reading the well-publicized 342-slide presentation, Icahn said it made "no sense." †What he was also curious about though was Ackman's lawyer. "I'm good at reading those reports real quick over the years. And I said it makes no sense.†Then it occurred to me, to wonder who the lawyer is who's advising him, and he's on the stage pontificating, this Ackman. And if I do a little homework on this, a little homework, this is where things are simplistic, and on my Twitter account, I'm going to show people some of these no-brainers." Icahn said at Delivering Alpha. At the Harbor Investment Conference in February Ackman said†that Pershing Square had the assistance of "some of the top law firms" and they've also concluded that it's a pyramid scheme. †One of those firms he mentioned was top corporate law firm Sullivan &amp; Cromwell. Icahn said he Googled Sullivan &amp; Cromwell.†As Icahn explained to the audience, with the FTC there are two divisions ó consumer protection and antitrust.  Sullivan &amp; Cromwell, he said, has experience in antitrust and hardly any in consumer protection. It's Icahn's contention that Herbalife would fall under consumer protection. † "Now, look at the simple ticket. So I go look at this report, read it for two hours, and I said this sounds like bull, but I can't tell, you know, I don't know. So I look up his lawyer, and the FTC has a department, the division of antitrust and division of consumer protection. So I look at that.†I look at that, they got nobody ó hardly anybody in the consumer protection division. The lawyers are all antitrust. So his lawyer wasn't an expert on this stuff. No experts. So I don't know much about the FTC, but they got a business that has 35,000 people working for it, it's been making all this money and it's been really ó nothing really ever proven about it. You are going to close a firm like that down?" Icahn is correct in this respect. Antitrust is one of Sullivan &amp; Cromwell's sweet spots.†If you remember, Sullivan &amp; Cromwell was involved in huge antitrust suits such as†Polaroid†Corporation v. Eastman†Kodak†Company and†Novell's case against Microsoft.† After doing some research on the Internet, Icahn subsequently sent Pershing Square's Herbalife report to a consumer protection "expert" attorney. "So I called an expert lawyer, a top law firm that just does this. I said, listen, obviously, I want you to read this, three or four hours, please read it for me. I get a guy on the phone, 35 years just dealing with FTC in consumer protection. He read it. He calls me back and he's laughing. He says this is a pile of ó but I'm on TV, so I won't say it ó euphemistically a pile of absurdity. He says this is complete nonsense what they wrote here. I can't believe anybody seriously is writing that the FTC would want to close it. Therefore, I got very interested in it. I bought a lot of the stock when it went down and, you noticed, Sullivan &amp; Cromwell never wrote an opinion that this company has any problems," Icahn said. As a result, Icahn concluded that this was a tremendous oversight by Ackman's Pershing Square that would allow Icahn to kill two birds with one stone: the first being on the winning side of the "mother of all short squeezes," and the second to deal a catastrophic blow to his arch-nemesis. † "And you know, Ackman, I would just say to you what I said to you before, that the thing that is amazing to me, and at the very least, you could say euphemistically is not judicious, is short 20 million shares of anything and go talk about it. ... First of all, it's stupid to take that much of a short position anyway, but if you do, the dumbest thing, in my mind, that you could do is get a room full of people and tell them that you're short. That tells you how smart he is. And tell you, oh, look how smart I am, and the stock's going to go down." "I think the guy honestly believed that people were going to follow him. And, you know, he's not the best man on Wall Street. I'm not the only guy ó I like him now, so I'm not going to say anything bad about him." Shares of Herbalife are trading up more than 5% today. We reached out to Ackman and Sullivan &amp; Cromwell for comment. †We will update as warranted.† Watch below, beginning around the 30 minute mark:† 
A perennial hangover used to be the cost of doing business on Wall Street. Now dealmakers are trading in bars and strip clubs for high-end spin gyms like SoulCycle, Barry's Bootcamp, and Flywheel Sports, according to a trend piece from Bloomberg. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre saying let‚Äôs go spin this morning, get a sweat and grab a juice after,‚Äù said [BTIG/Cyc Fitness' Steve] Starker, whose company has studios in Austin,¬†Texas, and Madison,¬†Wisconsin. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs still the ones that love to be entertained with a good bottle of wine, steak and quiet conversation, but so many people are more health-conscious these days.‚Äù Equity salespeople told Bloomberg they pitch meeting at an intense, obnoxiously expensive New York spin class because it often appeals to traders' competitive nature. The 5 a.m. session at SoulCycle in Tribeca, a block a way from Goldman's headquarters, is particularly popular. SoulCycle has been around New York since 2006, when somebody realized rich people were actually willing to pay the average monthly gym membership for one spin class. And a post-work sweat means traders can eschew the three-hour steak dinner for a quick 45-minute session ‚Äî¬†and be back home to tuck the kids in. Everybody wins. Read the full report at Bloomberg&gt;
The S&amp;P 500 just hit a fresh all-time high moments ago. However, stock market moves are much more amplified across Europe. Leading the way is Italy's FTSE MIB, which is up a whopping 2.3%.¬† Italy's banks are up over 5%. Here's a look at the intraday action via Borsa Italiana: Borsa Italiana
(Reuters) - Dell Inc postponed a crucial vote on CEO Michael Dell's$24.4 billion buyout offer to July 24, buying time to solicit more proxy votes and drum up more support despite winning over several large swing shareholders at the eleventh hour. The company co-founder and partner Silver Lake fell short of the votes needed to push through the largest buyout since the financial crisis, even though Vanguard and¬†BlackRock Inc¬†are now on board with the proposal, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters on Thursday. Dell shares climbed 2 percent to $13.15, still lagging the $13.65 that Michael Dell and his private equity partner are offering shareholders. Vanguard and BlackRock had previously opposed a deal that many say undervalues the world's No. 3 PC maker, but ultimately switched sides. Yet the proposal still needed another 150 million shares to pass as of early Thursday morning, the source said, requesting anonymity because the matter is not public. Board member Alex Mandl, chairman of a special committee overseeing the buyout, set the new meeting date for Wednesday. Other investors previously seen as swing votes, such as State Street Corp, Bank of New York Mellon Corp and Invesco also voted in favor of the deal on the eve of the shareholders' meeting, the source said. It is unusual for corporations to adjourn shareholder meetings on such short notice, but governance experts say it can be done if the company bylaws allow it. T. Rowe Price Group Inc, Highfields Capital Management, Pzena Investment Management and Yacktman Asset Management have previously voiced opposition to the deal. Representatives of the investment firms were not immediately available for comment. COMPLICATIONS Complicating matters, billionaire investor Carl Icahn, who has amassed an 8.7 percent stake in Dell, is leading a charge against the buyout with an offer of his own. In the week leading up to the meeting, Icahn's team and Dell's special board committee, which supports the CEO's proffered deal, have flooded shareholders with opposing letters and documents to argue their respective positions. Michael Dell and Silver Lake have resisted calls, including from Dell's special committee, to raise their offer. Under so-called majority-of-the-minority voting provisions, a majority of Dell shareholders excluding Michael Dell's roughly 16 percent stake would have to vote for the buyout for it go through. The proposed buyout needs about 735 million shareholder votes to pass. Shareholder Ed Benson from San Antonio had expected the meeting to be adjourned. "It's very hard to acquire that many votes," said Benson, calling Icahn "one of the worst vultures in corporate America." The activist investor was not immediately available for comment.
AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite WLRK represents UBS in a Senate hearing. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz¬†kept its iron grip on the top slot in Vault's annual ranking of America's most prestigious law firms. The only notable changes in the top ten was Sullivan &amp; Cromwell retaking the No. 3 spot from Skadden. Vault's ranking is based on¬†a survey of nearly 17,000 law associates, featuring comments and analysis about each firm. With their permission, we've highlighted the top firms here.
Wikimedia CommonsWe just got the latest Philly Fed number which jumped to 19.1, the highest reading since March 2011. The Dow is at an all-time intra-day high. The S&amp;P 500 also hit a record intra-day high to 1,687.47.¬† Here's a quick look.
AP ImagesThe results of the Philly Fed's monthly Business Outlook Survey are out. The headline index of regional business conditions unexpectedly surged to 19.8 in July from June's 12.5 reading. Economists were expecting a drop to 8.0. Below is a summary of the data from the release: The survey‚Äôs broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index of current activity, increased from 12.5 in June to 19.8, its highest reading since March 2011 (see Chart). The percentage of firms reporting increased activity this month (37 percent) was greater than the percentage reporting decreased activity (17 percent). Other current indicators suggest continued growth this month. The shipments index increased notably, from 4.1 in June to 14.3. The demand for manufactured goods as measured by the current new orders index remained positive, although it fell back 6 points to 10.2. Firms reported a drawdown of inventories this month: The inventory index fell 15 points, from -6.6 to -21.6. Labor market conditions showed a notable improvement this month. The current employment index, at 7.7, registered its first positive reading in four months. The percentage of firms reporting increases in employment (18 percent) exceeded the percentage reporting decreases (10 percent). Firms also indicated an increase in the average workweek compared with June. Below is a breakdown of the various sub-components of the index. Philadelphia Fed Click here for the full release &gt;

There's no shortage of payment startups trying to disrupt banks. From Simple to Dowalla to Square and Balance, startups are doing just about everything they can to work around the slow-moving entities instead of with them. Dan Kimerling and Zac Townsend are taking a different approach, and they expect to be handsomely rewarded by banks for it. The pair met at Harvard summer school when they were 16 and now they're working together in a different summer program, startup accelerator Y Combinator. The former Giftly COO and Stripe risk employee respectively have founded Standard Treasury, an API for banks. They help developers include banking functions such as¬†electronic checks (ACH), foreign exchanges, rate-quoting, and more in their apps and websites.¬† It's an enterprise play, and the pair are running paid pilot programs with a handful of banks. The banks, the founders say, will pay anywhere between $100,000 and $500,000 per month for the service, and they're trying to sign banks up for two-year contracts. Even thought there isn't a large pool of banking clients to onboard (Kimerling estimates there are 7,900 banks in the United States but only about 50 which could be potential clients), it'd be enough money for a small operation to more than reach profitability. Kimerling and Townsend say they expect to reach an annual run rate of more than $10 million by year end. Both founders already have good track records in Silicon Valley and Standard Treasury has a direct path to revenue. So why do they need to be in an accelerator program which will take a percentage of their company? "For us it's a lot about the focus," the pair say of joining Y Combinator. They also say the powerful YC alumni network, which includes "graduates" such as Airbnb and Dropbox, is extremely beneficial.¬† Beyond the $80,000 they were given upon entering Y Combinator, Kimerling and Townsend aren't sure they'll raise more money. "When you have contracts between $1 and $5 million a year, what are you raising money for?" they ask.
REUTERS/Jim YoungU.S. Chairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke listens to questions as he testifies before a House Budget Committee hearing on "The Near-Term Outlook for the U.S. Economy" on Capitol Hill in Washington, January 17, 2008.UBS's Art Cashin has been musing a lot about the goings-on inside the Federal Reserve lately. Last week, he suggested that Fed Governor Betsy Duke's resignation from the FOMC was actually a bigger deal than it seemed, given that Duke "was¬†said to be the key broker in setting up the current QE." "Could the FOMC have found some negative consequence caused by QE?" wrote Cashin in his morning note. "Might that have prompted discussion and an interest to wind down or exit despite a still non-robust economy?" In his morning note today, Cashin seems to build a bit on this theory (emphasis added): Among the several lapses in trading yesterday, there were several topics that popped up. Two of them really caught my attention. One was a hypothesis that there may be a rebellion at the FOMC. By stringing together lots of little clues since the tapering talk first started, you could build a case that the wonderful consensus builder, Ben Bernanke, may have lost his consensus as he turns lame duck. We'll try to get to that tomorrow. We will also try to get to a research paper by Julio Rotemberg titled "Penitence after accusations of error: 100 Years of¬†Monetary Policy at the U.S. Federal Reserve". It was recently published for the NBER symposium ‚ÄúThe First Hundred Years of the Federal Reserve: The Policy Record, Lessons Learned, and Prospects for the Future‚Äù. It contains delightful little points like how some aggressive easing moves by the Fed in 1932 were halted as a failure since they only produced a huge jump in "excess free reserves" rather than a burst of bank lending. Talk about d√©j√† vu all over again. Hopefully, tomorrow. It will be interesting to see what Cashin has to say next.
bytemarks / FlickrThe Department of Labor's latest report on initial weekly unemployment claims is out and it looks better than expected. Claims fell 24k to 334,000, which was lower than the 345,000 expected by economists. However, economists note that the claims tend to be very volatile and noisy this time of year as the major automakers idle and retool. "Jobless claims were above consensus in last week's report, likely due to seasonal adjustment problems relating to annual auto plant shutdowns," said High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan before the release. "We expect the opposite pattern this week.¬† The information value of the data will likely remain limited until later in the month."
They're the most negative since October 2009, the days of the Great Recession, according to Markitís semiannual Global Business Outlook Survey that covered 11,000 companies in 17 countries. The culprits with the sharpest declines in confidence: executives in the US and China. There were some exceptions: confidence improved in the UK and Brazil. Indian executives, rather the sinking deeper into their confidence morass, were able to hang on to their three-and-a-half year low. But in the US, optimism about future activity levels, revenues, inflows of new business, and profits, both in manufacturing and services, all fell to post-Financial Crisis lows. In China, optimism of those who run manufacturing businesses skidded to the lowest level since October 2011, which is worrisome enough, but optimism of those who run service businesses dived to the lowest level since October 2007, lower even than the low point during the Financial Crisis. Everything went to heck: sentiments on future business revenues, new business inflows, and profits [my take on the fears of a guy deeply entangled in the worldís real economy, the CEO of industrial conglomerate Siemens: ìDuring The Last Crisis, We Had China,î Now We Have No†One]. ìChina is the biggest area of concern for investors,î said Michael Hartnett, Chief Investment Strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch, following the release of its July Fund Manager Survey that had taken the temperature of 238 fund managers around the world. Their sentiment toward China plunged to the lowest level since January 2009, during the darkest days of the Financial Crisis. They dreaded a ìhard landingî of the Chinese economy more than anything else, far exceeding their fears of the next item on the worry list, an EU sovereign debt crisis. In beat-up Eurozone periphery country Spain, executive optimism, if thatís the right word, ticked up a smidgen but in the Eurozoneís largest economies ñ Germany, France, and Italy ñ it tumbled, particularly in manufacturing, particularly in Germany! [My take... Blinded By Pre-Election Optimism, German Economy Now Below Stall†Speed]. In Japan, Abenomics ñ the mix of spending on corporate welfare by the government and promises of prodigious money-printing and bond-buying by the Bank of Japan ñ was supposed to create a tsunami of hope to whip optimism into a frenzy and bamboozle everyone into borrowing and spending even more. It worked. Exporters, benefiting from the demolished yen, were still on cloud nine. But the air was already hissing out of that balloon among executives in service industries. The good news about Russia was that optimism among the cream of the economic crop didnít plunge, but ìdipped only slightlyî; the bad news was that it already hovered near post-Financial Crisis lows. This worldwide swoon in business optimism and the resurgence of outright gloominess in the largest economies bode ill for investment in productive assets and job creation in the real economy, and for the so desperately hoped-for, but increasingly illusory, uptick in the second half. This, despite ñ or because of ñ the ongoing concerted efforts by central banks to douse the financial system with freshly printed money. Institutional investors ñ the smart money ñ felt this undertow and didnít want to get pulled out to sea. So, despite the hoopla in the stock markets and large sections of the media, theyíve been bailing out of stocks all year, according to BofA Merrill Lynchís weekly data about its client trading patterns. But retail investors ñ the low men and women on the totem pole ñ have been buying stocks most of the year, interrupted only by a brief lack of enthusiasm in the spring, followed by a determined spurt since. These retail clients of BofA Merrill Lynch have plowed $7.4 billion into stocks so far this year, just as the smart money has yanked out over $10.7 billion. This is the Great Rotation that the Fed has been waiting for, from those who benefited from its money-printing and bond-buying binge to those who will end up holding the bag, from Wall Street to Main Street. The hope is that the Fed can keep the rally and the Great Rotation going long enough to allow the smart money to unload and get out of harmís way before the pendulum swings back from wealth effect to its inevitable consequence, capital destruction. Unperturbed, stock markets have been setting new highs. The asset bubbles that the Fed has created are spectacular, Wall Street risk-taking with other peopleís money a sight to behold. As the real economy struggles, and as executive gloom sets in, financial engineering has triumphed. Big winners were mortgage Real Estate Investment Trusts ñ and those who got fat on extracting fees. But there, the pendulum is now swinging back, and the bloodletting has started. Read.... Mother Of All Bubbles Pops, Mess†Ensues.
Societe GeneraleAll eyes will be on Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke today as he testifies before the Senate Banking Committee. Since May, no macro topic has received more attention than the prospect of the Fed tapering its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds, which have helped keep long-term interest rates low around the world. But in a new note to clients, Societe Generale's Albert Edwards warns there is a much bigger macro story developing in China: the prospect of deflation. From Edwards: Perhaps, though, the most decisive macro factor for all markets will be any slide into deflation in China. Certainly many see this as conceptually possible because of China<U+0092>s heavy over-investment. But is this fear now turning into reality? The recent Q2 GDP data contains the surprising fact that China<U+0092>s implicit GDP deflator had slowed to only 0.5% yoy <U+0096> noticeably weaker than the CPI data. This massive data point has gone virtually unnoticed in the markets (although it was pointed out by our own Wei Yao). The fact that China is on the verge of outright deflation may prove more important than even Fed tapering. China is the world's second largest economy, and it is one of the last few beacons of economic growth. So the prospect of falling prices would certainly have ripples around the world. Part of the reason for this, Edwards argues, is the unsupported strength of China's currency. In addition to the usual argument that China<U+0092>s over-investment risks triggering deflation, we believe that this is also partly caused by currency dynamics. We identify China as suffering from excessive currency strength relative to regional competitors, both in nominal, and most especially, in real terms as wage inflation ripped upwards a few years back). As we noted in a recent weekly, Japan'<U+0092>s devaluation has put additional stress on China. This reminds me very much of the events leading up to the mid-1990s Asian crisis. Of all the major currencies around the world, I struggle to find one that is suffering more from currency strength than China. Given that it is already struggling to restrain excessive credit growth, deflation and excess currency strength is one problem China can certainly do without. The rise in China<U+0092>s real exchange rate in recent years is far in excess of the nominal advance. Chinese authorities almost actively encouraged rapid wage inflation in 2010-11 in an attempt to curtail worker unrest as food prices surged and The Arab Spring saw regime change on the north African coast. In addition, more recently, being tied to the US dollar at a time of dollar strength is exacerbating the squeeze on China<U+0092>s competitiveness and is undoubtedly hurting export growth. Societe Generale Edwards repeated his 2011 thesis that the idea of the BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India, China) was actually a "Bloody Ridiculous Investment Concept." "The story of superior growth for the EM universe is as entirely plausible as it is misleading," said Edwards. "Valuation is what matters for investing in EM, not their superior growth story." Indeed, despite the higher GDP growth, Emerging Market stock returns have been just dismal.
REUTERS/Jim YoungBen Bernanke smiles after being sworn in as the 14th Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board during a ceremony in Washington, February 6, 2006. Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Investment banking giant Morgan Stanley just released its Q2 financial results. The numbers are a bit noisy. Earning per share adjusted for non-recurring items jumped to $0.45 per share. This was a bit above the $0.43 expected by analysts. Net revenue came in at $8.32 billion, beating expectations for $7.89 billion. Management also announced that they would begin to repurchase $500 million worth of shares. "This quarter, we saw significant year-over-year revenue growth in each of our five major business units and higher year-over-year profitability," said CEO James Gorman. "Of particular note, Equity sales and trading results were strong across all products and regions, while Investment Banking delivered top-three rankings in announced and completed M&amp;A, global equity offerings and global IPOs." ¬† Click Here For The Full Announcement &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsOne in every 324 of all U.S. housing units received a foreclosure filing in the second quarter, according to the latest foreclosure data from RealtyTrac. This was down 27% from a year ago. RealtyTrac's Q2 report showed a total of 404,842 U.S. properties with filings in Q2 2013. Many local housing markets continue to struggle with foreclosures despite the "housing recovery" seen at the national level.  We drew on the report to highlight 14 metros with the highest foreclosure rate.  Note: The metros are ranked by foreclosure rate i.e. 1 in every X homes received a foreclosure filing. 
Wikimedia CommonsHere's a sign the housing market is maybe, possibly, overheating: the number of people becoming realtors is surging. ChicagoGrid.com's Emmy Storms reports the Chicago Association of Realtors added 600 new members this spring, at a rate of 75 to 100 enrolled each month. Meanwhile, Miami Association of Realtors vice president Lynda Fernandez says there's been a 25% increase in the growth rate for new members, from to 3,800 YOY from June 2012 to this year, compared with 3,000 for June 2011-June 2012. She said only a small percentage were likely to be transfers from other associations. Chicagoland housing market analyst Gary Lucido, who linked to Storms' post, blogs that this puts us in deja-vu territory: During the height of the real estate bubble every doorman, bar tender, and tax driver became a real estate agent so they would have a ticket to earn the outrageous commissions from friends, family, and casual acquaintances. ...  Flash forward a few years and we're almost back to those golden days, though the licensing standards are a tad more rigorous (but not much more) and money isn't exactly easy. Given that inventory remains constrained in most parts of the country, the figures are only likely to increase.
Wikimedia CommonsHere's a quick preview of what's coming up today via Calculated Risk's Bill McBride: ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for an decrease to 344 thousand from 360 thousand last week. ‚Ä¢ At 10:00 AM, Testimony by Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress, Before the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, U.S. Senate. The prepared testimony will be the same as delivered Wednesday, but the Q&amp;A might be interesting. ‚Ä¢ Also at 10:00 AM: the Philly Fed manufacturing survey for June. The consensus is for a reading of 9.0, down from 12.5 last month (above zero indicates expansion). ‚Ä¢ Also at 10:00 AM, the Conference Board Leading Indicators for June. The consensus is for a 0.3% increase in this index.
The people of Brazil have been expressing their discontent with the government, resulting in some unfortunate public clashes with police. On June 20, more than a million people took to the streets to champion a variety of social and political causes. The disruptive protests have continued although most have been peaceful in nature. ¬†Brazil‚Äôs President Dilma Rousseff has been attempting to defuse the situation, meeting with protest leaders and local government officials, and urging Brazilians to refrain from violence. Some of the protests coincided with Brazil‚Äôs hosting of the Confederations Cup football (soccer) games, seen as sort of a ‚Äútrial run‚Äù for the FIFA Brazil World Cup‚Ñ¢ in 2014. Spending on infrastructure for global sporting events, instead of other social interests, has been among the protestors‚Äô complaints. Government officials have been trying to address some of the protestors‚Äô concerns, although the issues are complicated and the answers aren‚Äôt always black and white in terms of the ‚Äúbest‚Äù course of action for the country‚Äôs long-term economic well-being‚Äîor for investors there. We recognize that it is always easier to judge any political decision from the outside. It is clear that the country‚Äôs leaders are taking the public‚Äôs response seriously and are using discipline to examine increasing tariffs at a time of such unrest. Of course, inflation has been an issue historically for Brazil, and a key factor leading to public outcry. While some companies in Brazil can be doing what they feel they need to do for their own survival, the political scenario there is very tough right now. Unrest and Change Change, of course, can be very painful, which has been the case in Brazil of late. And if the unrest continues, the short-term impact from the protests is likely to be negative for Brazil‚Äôs economy. On June 27, Brazil‚Äôs central bank cut its growth forecast for 2013 to 2.7%, down from prior expectations of 3.1%, and cited volatility as a risk factor. While of course we‚Äôd prefer to see stronger growth, what really worries us would be a more permanent shift away from a market economy model, i.e., greater privatization. We generally believe government intervention in private enterprise is not the right course to take, and this has been an ongoing concern in Brazil in general.¬† However, we are optimistic Brazil can sort out its problems to the benefit of its markets, its economy, and its people. For people and businesses to function, there must be proper functioning of public services. So, in that respect, we find the protests encouraging because we think Brazil can do better, and could be experiencing even faster growth rates than it has over the past year. The insurrections and protests we‚Äôve seen not only in Brazil but elsewhere can lead to unfortunate tragedies, but they also mean that the Internet revolution is having an impact. With Twitter and cell phones and other forms of electronic communication, the public can express their feelings to politicians, and that can lead to positive change. We haven‚Äôt lost hope in Brazil‚Äôs potential, and plan to continue looking for potential investment opportunities there too. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets are making modest moves in Europe. England's FTSE 100 is up 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.2%. Germany's DAX is flat. Spain's IBX 35 is up 0.6%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.3%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei jumped 1.3% to an 8-week high. U.S. futures are basically flat ahead of the open. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke heads back to Washington to testify before the Senate Banking Committee at¬† 10:30 a.m. ET. Economists expect him to reiterate that monetary policy will be directed by economic data, not any preset schedule.
