The smog in Shanghai is frequently awful. But some of the images showing up on social media right now seem to be at another level.      More Shanghai airpocalypse pic today: The Bund pic.twitter.com/j8Jra3CFBl Shanghai today..... pic.twitter.com/8cLNIopeAO
Letís begin with the indisputable fact that the nationís already-weak labor market has been getting weaker for some time. There are a number of massive structural forces contributing to what unquestionably has been the weakest recovery from any recession since WWII. Among them are the depth and breadth of the Great Recession, continued productivity gains employers are reaping from technology, the ongoing seismic shift from a manufacturing economy to a services and information-based economy, globalization, and the accelerating deterioration of U.S. education and hence its workforce. But while all of those are, without a doubt, significant factors, the single biggest influence on the state of the economy and the anemic jobs market that we are ALL suffering through is the insanity of the Republicans in the House of Representatives. As I described in a post on October 1st, the Austeriots (austerity-obsessed idiots) led by Ted Cruz (a.k.a. Heisenberg) have taken the country hostage and are hell-bent on dragging everyone into their suicidal death pact. It increasingly appears as if their strategy is to drive the U.S.S. Economy into a massive iceberg, sink the entire ship, and force the 99% to fend for themselves in the arctic waters of poverty and misery while the 1% escape in their G-Vs. LinkUp And at the moment, their plan is clearly working. Between Q1 and Q3 of this year, the number of quarterly jobs gained in the U.S. economy dropped 21%, falling 12% in Q2 and another 10% in Q3. (Iím ignoring for the moment the delusional BLS data from October which Iíll get to later.) These data perfectly match the data weíve seen on LinkUpís job search engine since the beginning of the year. The chart below depicts a 50/50 blended average of new and total job openings on LinkUp each month since February of this year. Since the gain of 13% in February, the number has dropped to a decline of 7% in November. As background,†LinkUp is the largest and fastest growing job search engine on the web.†Totally unique to the space, we are the only job search engine that only indexes jobs found on company websites. We currently have 1.7 million real †jobs from 40,000 corporate websites. What that means is that we have the largest search engine of the highest quality job listings on the web. Every job on LinkUp is guaranteed to be current because the index is updated every night, and there are no duplicate listings because we only index jobs from a single source ñ the employerís website itself. Most importantly, we have completely eliminated the garbage that pollutes job boards and job board aggregators such as Indeed and Simplyhired. That garbage includes things like old, expired listings, job scams, work-at-home scams, lead gen garbage, fraud, identity theft, and money mule positions, for example. As a result, we deliver to job seekers (and hence employers) the best user experience and the highest quality job site on the web today. And it is the unique quality of our index that also provides us with the cleanest data set in the market with which to forecast job growth in the U.S. LinkUpThe raw LinkUp data for job openings by state in November, while slightly better than the numbers above, still give ample cause for concern. (Because of our 'paired-month' methodology, each month gets 2 data points each for new and total job openings so Novemberís numbers above are compared to the average of the 2 October numbers, while the numbers in the table below use only the 2nd data point for October.) In any event, Novemberís raw data showed no increase whatsoever in either new or total job openings. LinkUp What is disconcerting is that when you remove the temporary job listing growth due to holiday hiring (as indicated below in the Retail category), new job listings in the U.S. declined 5% in November, while total job listings declined 2%. The actual numbers are most likely even a bit worse given holiday hiring in other areas like shipping and receiving, transportation (i.e., UPS and FedEx, etc.), and other temporary positions related to the holidays. LinkUp So no matter how you cut it, the data weíre seeing in our index paint a dismal picture for hiring in the months ahead. And looking back to September and Octoberís LinkUp data, we are forecasting a very negative jobs report Friday morning from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. First, we are predicting that Octoberís unbelievable gain of 204,000 jobs is just that ñ unbelievable. With the 6.4% decline we saw in our September LinkUp data, we are anticipating a massive downward revision to a gain of only 65,000 jobs last month. (Keep in mind that we might not see the full revision until 30 days from now when the Employment Situation Report for December is released in early January, in which the BLS will likely release a 60-day revision for Octoberís numbers.) If Octoberís numbers are as horrible as we believe them to be, we are forecasting that the economy actually lost jobs in November for the first time since September 2010. With the 5.6% decline in new and total job listings in the LinkUp index in October, we predict that the U.S. showed a net loss of 25,000 jobs in November. LinkUpAnd while we need another data point for November next month (the 2nd in our paired-month methodology mentioned previously), our preliminary assessment for December does not look any better, with another net loss of 50,000 jobs. So while food stamp rolls and the number of Americans living below the poverty line keep rising, while tens of millions of Americans struggle to eke out a meager existence and support their families on minimum wage, and while the long-term jobless sink into further despair, the Austeriots not only obstinately refuse, under the guise of fiscal discipline, to lift a helping hand but continue to aggressively set flame to the social safety net. Unemployment benefits are reduced, the food stamp program gets slashed, payroll taxes go up, schools crumble, tuitions get hiked, bridges collapse, cities go bankrupt, and children go to bed hungry. What a Christmas itíll be for millions and millions and millions and millions of Americans. Think about that. Seriously ñ think about that for even just a few minutes. And if you need help thinking about it, read this article: Life on $7.25 an Hour. And the worst part of what is happening in the country right now is that while all this misery and despair is crushing so many people, arguably because of it, corporate profits have reached epic levels, corporate balance sheets have never contained so much cash, and the stock market is setting record highs seemingly every week. The U.S.S. Economy may be sinking, but rest assured that those G-Vs are all fueled up and ready to go.
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. One Criterion Trumps All Others When Advisors Pick Investments For Clients (Aberdeen Asset Management) A survey of 200 registered investment advisors (RIAs) by Aberdeen Asset Management showed that 59% of RIAs think "clarity regarding the fund manager‚Äôs investment philosophy and strategy is the most important attribute considered when recommending a¬† mutual fund to a client." Historical returns, fund rankings, fund manager tenure, and brand name were less important.¬† "Fund managers that can clearly and concisely articulate their investment philosophy and strategy are more likely to garner interest from advisors and attract assets," said Mickey Janvier, Head of Wealth Management, Americas, for Aberdeen Asset Management. "While this seems simple in theory, many fund managers continue to undervalue the importance of clear and concise communication with advisors about how portfolios are invested. These managers will have a difficult time remaining relevant in an environment where transparency is king." Advisors Need To Bring Their A Game To Protect Clients From Hedge Funds (The Wall Street Journal)  Now that the SEC has allowed hedge funds to advertise it is up to advisors to make sure their clients aren't don't become targets writes Jeffrey B. Clark, Jr of Texas-based Sendero Wealth Management. "It's a good rule of thumb that top performing hedge funds don't need to advertise, so it's likely that the more desperate funds will target investors most frequently." There are some protections of course but advisors need to communicate "what the return will be, what the fees will be, how liquid the investment may be, and why it may or may not make a good fit."  Stocks Look More Vulnerable Than Ever (TD Securities) "Stocks look more vulnerable than ever," warns Eric Green of TD Securities. Stocks had a nice run up at the start of the year and then traded sideways between May and early September, and then picked up again.¬† "Part of this may be attributed to a ‚Äòlow for longer‚Äô theme that has gained more traction relative to the lead up to the September meeting. Part of this may also be due to a tapering event that many may view as a vote of confidence in the recovery. Either way, however, equities look toppish at this point. As tapering expectations coalesce the bias is clearly lower, particularly in the US where cyclically adjusted PE ratios for non-financial corporates have run well ahead of their counterparts in the UK or Europe. "A 5% to 10% correction in stock prices is now a reasonable expectation, but it is a correction that provides better entry points and is a correction that will prove short-lived as economic math in 2014 is tilted to 2.5%, or higher." FINRA Board Considers Raising Arbitration Fees (Investment News)  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is considering raising fees associated with pursuing arbitration claims, reports Mark Schoeff Jr at Investment News. This is being considered in an effort to raise the pay for people on arbitration panels. The last time arbitration pay was changed was in 1999. These 10 Themes Will Be The Big Market Stories Of 2014 (Richard Bernstein Advisors)  Richard Bernstein of Richard Bernstein Advisors is out with his list of investment themes that will be critical in 2014. Here they are 1. "The US stock market continues its bull run." 2. "Japan outperforms emerging markets ‚Äì The currency wars begin." 3. "European small cap stocks lead global equity performance." 4. "High yield municipals lead the bond market." 5. "Gold falls below $1,000." 6. "The American Industrial Renaissance continues." 7. "The Fed stays on hold much longer than investors expect." 8. "Investors realize that the term ‚ÄúLiquid Alts‚Äù may be an oxymoron." 9. "The king has no clothes: high quality stocks underperform." 10. "We expect smaller banks to again outperform larger banks in 2014."
REUTERSFederal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan testifies before the Senate Judiciary Committee on the effects of the recent wave of mergers in corporate America, June 16. Greenspan told the committee that the economic effects of the mergers were difficult to estimate but noted that they were unlikely to reduce competition substantially.Earlier today, former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan discussed Bitcoin with Bloomberg's Trish Regan. Regan got right to the point: "Is Bitcoin a bubble?" Regan asked. "I guess so," Greenspan said, adding, "You really have to stretch your imagination to infer what the intrinsic value of Bitcoin is. I haven't been able to do it. But if you ask me, 'Is this a bubble in Bitcoin?' 'Yeah, it's a bubble."† People are baffled by this remark. That's because Greenspan refused to call the housing bubble a bubble, and presided over the dot-com bubble despite seemingly having recognized it as such as far back as 1996, when he made his "irrational exuberance" speech. Here's a smattering of the reaction from Twitter:† He would know. RT @trish_regan: Alan Greespan on #bitcoin "I guess it's a bubble". link here: http://t.co/Mx9YEzAkKa pic.twitter.com/kh8wlahyGF GREENSPAN CALLS BITCOIN A BUBBLE ASSURING ITS RISE TO $10,000 I would MUCH RATHER hear Greenspan call Bitcoin a bubble than not. He's never recognized a REAL BUBBLE of his own making (Y2K, housing, etc) Funny, I think RT @zerohedge: GREENSPAN SAYS OF BITCOIN: `ITíS A BUBBLEí. sigh Oy vey! Greenspan talks bitcoins, bubbles and bloomberg! (fine alliteration) http://t.co/pTXBr67B15 VT6fx8yBTOOQIAFlrraqDQ.html
ISIApparently it's shaping up to be a great year for Christmas tree sales. "It appears that while housing is still weakening consumer spending is strengthening on many fronts, from furniture sales to Christmas tree sales," writes ISI chairman Ed Hyman in a note to clients today. "Every season Oscar Sloterbeckís team surveys the same group of regional Christmas tree associations, farmers, and retailers ó 26 contacts across the U.S. and Canada. This Week 1 result is the strongest ever, by a very wide margin. Judging by this, youíd better get your tree early."
Wikimedia CommonsThe world's wealthiest men had to meet one important guideline to qualify for a new ranking of billionaires: they had to be single.† Wealth intelligence firm Wealth-X analyzed the assets of the wealthiest unmarried men in the world to create this list of the richest bachelors. Wealth-X Research uses a proprietary valuation model to assess all asset holdings, including privately and publicly held businesses and investible assets. Included are tech tycoons, music moguls, and even a Russian oligarch. These bachelors may not all be young, and they may not even be looking for love, but they are eligible.†
Nothing dogs a good ponzi scheme like the death of a client. But for Bernie Madoff's henchman, all you had to was (allegedly)¬†draw up a new account. Bloomberg's Erik Larson was on the scene for the trial of¬†Annette Bongiorno¬†and¬†Joann Crupi, two of Madoff's associates in his investment advisory unit. From Bloomberg: While Madoff usually backdated trades to diminish payouts to the estates of clients who died, he couldn‚Äôt do that for Jacques Amsellem, a French customer since the late 1970s, because the man‚Äôs lawyer didn‚Äôt alert the firm to the death until two months later,¬†Frank DiPascali, 57, testified today at the federal trial of five former colleagues in Manhattan. Annette Bongiorno¬†and¬†Joann Crupi, defendants in the case who ran Madoff‚Äôs investment advisory unit, created a new account from scratch for Amsellem and filled it with losses on short positions for¬†Microsoft Corp.¬†and¬†Novell Inc. to offset fake gains in his original accounts, [former associate Frank] DiPascali testified. It's just that easy! Read the full report at Bloomberg ¬ª
Here are our themes for 2014: 1)¬†¬† ¬†The US stock market continues its bull run.Rationale: We continue to believe that the US stock market may be in the midst of one of the biggest bull markets of our careers. It seems odd to us that investors seem to disregard the existence of a stock market cycle despite that the rotations and leadership in the US market have followed the normal historical pattern. Indicators that have historically been reliable forecasters of bear markets still seem quite benign. The yield curve remains positively sloped, valuation appears normal for this point in the cycle, and sentiment remains very attractive according to our models. Although stocks in 2014 might not provide returns as high as those during 2013, the US stock market‚Äôs return might be above average in 2014. 2)¬†¬† ¬†Japan outperforms emerging markets ‚Äì The Currency Wars Begin.Rationale: As of the date of this report, the Nikkei 225‚Äôs YTD total return of roughly 53% has far outpaced the MSCI Emerging Market‚Äôs -1%. We think Japan is likely to outperform emerging markets again during 2014. The aftershocks of the global credit bubble (i.e., massive global overcapacity and falling productivity in the emerging markets) could result in currency wars. Our bullishness on Japan in 2013 was based on a falling Yen, and we think Japan may be the first country to recognize that countries must compete on price (i.e., depreciating currency) in the absence of improving demographics and productivity. Although consensus return expectations for Japan do not seem conservative, we still believe that investors have yet to fully recognize the significant structural headwinds facing the emerging markets. 3)¬†¬† ¬†European small cap stocks lead global equity performance.Rationale: The European economic recovery has lagged the US during this cycle, which is typical by historical standards. Smaller capitalization stocks tend to lead markets during most early-cycle periods. In addition, smaller capitalization European stocks currently have the world‚Äôs strongest 12-month earnings growth forecast, yet few investors seem aware of these superior growth prospects. 4)¬†¬† ¬†High yield municipals lead the bond market.Rationale: We like to search for gaps between perception and reality, and there seems to be a wide gap regarding municipal bond fundamentals. Whereas investors seem quite wary of municipals, municipal finances are generally getting stronger. Investors also seem very concerned that interest rates will rise, but an increase in interest rates can actually improve pension funding status (the present value of future liabilities shrinks as interest rates rise). Because of such factors, high yield municipal bonds might lead bond market performance during 2014. 5)¬†¬† ¬†Gold falls below $1,000.Rationale: Investors often think of gold as a hedge against inflation, and history suggests that abnormally high inflation rates are often stimulated by strong credit growth. However, the global credit bubble is deflating, and developed economies‚Äô inflation rates continue to fall without credit‚Äôs fuel. We can understand Yen-based investors‚Äô interest in gold as the Japanese economy reflates (see #2), but we think US-dollar based investors should emphasize financial assets rather than real assets like gold. In USD terms, we think gold will continue its bear market, and could fall below $1,000/oz. 6)¬†¬† ¬†The American Industrial Renaissance continues.Rationale: Smaller, domestically-focused US industrial and manufacturing companies have been gaining market share, and we think that trend is likely to continue. Energy costs, productivity, transportation costs, quality control, political stability, and labor costs are some of the contributing factors. Despite the significant outperformance of these small and mid-cap companies in 2013, we feel the investment theme remains in its early stages and expect the theme to outperform again in 2014. 7)¬†¬† ¬†The Fed stays on hold much longer than investors expect.Rationale: Contrary to popular belief, the Fed has historically been a lagging, not a leading, indicator. The Fed has said that policy changes will be ‚Äúdata dependent‚Äù during this cycle (what exactly were they in past cycles if not data dependent?), and we interpret that to mean that Fed policy changes may lag more than they did in previous cycles. The fear of replaying 2008 is not only still central in investors‚Äô minds, it is apparently still central to the Fed‚Äôs decisions. If our assertions are correct, then stock market valuations could be higher and volatility could be lower than investors currently expect. 8)¬†¬† ¬†Investors realize that the term ‚ÄúLiquid Alts‚Äù may be an oxymoron.Rationale: During the early-1990s, I argued that illiquidity was one of the reasons alternative investments outperformed. Investors did not have ready access to their funds, and had to receive higher returns than available in liquid investments as compensation for taking illiquidity risk. Within that context, the term ‚Äúliquid alternatives‚Äù seems like an oxymoron. Basic financial theory suggests that liquid alternatives should provide inferior return/risk potential versus illiquid alternatives. Ongoing fears of replaying 2008‚Äôs bear market suggest to us that investors may be paying too much for liquidity, and that liquid alternatives‚Äô returns could be inferior to those of plain old-fashioned stocks. 9)¬†¬† ¬†The king has no clothes: high quality stocks underperform.Rationale: Many investors believe that quality stocks outperform over the long- term. Unfortunately, there is little objective data to support that contention. Rather, there is substantial evidence that ‚Äúbad‚Äù companies have historically tended to make ‚Äúgood‚Äù investments over the long-term. Much like in #7 and #8 above, 2008‚Äôs lingering fears have led investors toward more conservative, higher quality stocks. We think that trend might reverse during 2014. 10) Small banks.Rationale: Bubbles create capacity that typically isn‚Äôt needed once the bubble deflates. The expansion of bank balance sheets was the capacity created during the credit bubble. Larger banks‚Äô balance sheets ballooned during the credit bubble, but their balance sheets have yet to fully contract. Smaller bank balance sheets seem much better aligned to the post-bubble credit world. The S&amp;P SmallCap 600¬Æ Bank index outperformed the S&amp;P 500¬Æ Bank index by roughly 15 percentage points so far during 2013. We expect smaller banks to again outperform larger banks in 2014.
TD Securities, MacrobondIn a note to clients this afternoon, Eric Green, global head of rates, FX, and commodities research at TD Securities, warns that "stocks look more vulnerable than ever," as prices have outrun improvements in fundamentals. Green writes: A prevailing view among many has been that the portfolio substitution effect of QE inflated risk assets such as equities beyond reason. When the Fed began talking about tapering, however, there was no evidence that stocks were overvalued. Narrow profits as a percentage of gross value added were very much consistent with stocks priced in the 1550 range. However, since that time the S&amp;P 500 has risen almost 11% after trading sideways between May and early September. Indeed the leg up from 1650 after the no tapering decision in September has not been supported by underlying growth and earnings fundamentals. Part of this may be attributed to a ëlow for longerí theme that has gained more traction relative to the lead up to the September meeting. Part of this may also be due to a tapering event that many may view as a vote of confidence in the recovery. Either way, however, equities look toppish at this point. As tapering expectations coalesce the bias is clearly lower, particularly in the US where cyclically adjusted PE ratios for non-financial corporates have run well ahead of their counterparts in the UK or Europe. A 5% to 10% correction in stock prices is now a reasonable expectation, but it is a correction that provides better entry points and is a correction that will prove short-lived as economic math in 2014 is tilted to 2.5%, or higher. Nevertheless, what weaker stock prices will do over the near term is dull some of the pain in Treasuries that are otherwise better positioned for tapering. Yields are set to drift higher, and 3.0% 10 year yields looks reasonable over the next month, but in a low inflation environment and a central bank seemingly on hold forever, a rout does not loom. The bottom line, according to Green: "At current levels, Treasuries could well outperform other risky assets such as equities that appear more vulnerable than ever as the Fed tiptoes to tapering." Others on the Street have echoed such sentiments today as well. "Risk markets are feeling wobbly,†and thatís helping†developed bond markets find their feet for now," wrote†SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale interest rate strategists Ciaran O'Hagan and Vincent Chaigneau in a note to clients this morning. Treasuries sold off today in the wake of a better-than-expected ADP employment report, which showed a marked acceleration in private-sector job growth in November. Stocks closed down marginally. The SocGen strategists say the threat better economic data pose Treasuries is "a limited one if tapering-centred risk assets do not react well to solid data."
REUTERS/Ricardo MoraesPeople walk over drawings depicting chalk outlines of bodies during a protest at Carioca square in downtown Rio de Janeiro, December 3, 2013. Stocks struggled to find direction today. The Dow tumbled early, before being in the green by 50 points. Then it tanked, falling 119 points into the red. And then finally, markets closed near break-even. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
FacebookStephen Colbert put the town of Vicco, Ky., on the map this summer after he profiled the town's gay mayor and perhaps-unexpectedly tolerant residents in what some called the greatest segment in the show's history. ¬† Unfortunately, Vicco also saw virtually no population growth in the past decade¬†‚Äî they're stuck at a little more than 300 ‚Äî and sits in a county that averaged an unemployment rate of over 12% last year (the national average was 8%).¬† When you're small American town is dying, you do everything you can to rescue it.¬†But Vicco's rescuing is officially a lot cooler than others. Their latest move: starting next month at the earliest, Police Chief Tony Vaughn will start taking his salary in bitcion. The story was first reported by The Hazard Herald's Cris Ritchie.¬† We just got off the phone with Vaughn. He said he first learned about bitcoin three months ago through his son, and became convinced virtual currencies are the future. "I pretty much think it will eventually take over," he said, "or I hope it does." More importantly, he saw it as a way to keep the interest in the town first generated by the Colbert piece going. After it ran, several individuals donated money and playground equipment to spruce up the local park, Ritchie said. "We're trying to stay alive," he said. "We're a small town, so we're trying to take every progressive move we can make. So it's just an interesting experiment." Vaughn did not say how he will end up spending his salary. No Kentucky establishments are listed on Coinmap.org accepting bitcoin, but Ritchie reported the city's new¬†website will soon be set up to accept bitcoin donations. But he officially submitted his proposal to the city council last month, and barring any unexpected legal hiccups will begin receiving bitcoin for his next paycheck. Taxes will first be removed.
Flickr Carla MacNeilThe unemployment rate will fall to 7.0% come Friday's jobs report, UBS' Drew Matus predicts. "After reviewing our estimate, we have revised up our forecast for November payrolls to 190k from 160k," Matus wrote clients. "We maintain our earlier estimate of an unemployment rate decline to 7.0% from 7.3%." This morning, we saw a huge boost in ADP's estimate of private payrolls (215,000), but Matus says that the report wasn't his firm's motivation to up its forecast. From the note: Retail payrolls likely rose faster than they have been...retail employment expansion [is] similar to last years. Last year, stronger hiring plans preceded a surge in retail hiring from 14k per month on average in Q3 to 43k per month on average in Q4. Last month already suggested some pickup (to 44k in Oct from 22k in Sep and 34k per month in Q3), and we allow for some further acceleration in November. 7.0% would likely be seen as a major milestone for the unemployment rate. Perhaps it would even spook markets, since anything closer to the Fed's 6.5% target might jolt people into thinking the central bank is approaching the decision to raise interest rates. A strong print on Friday would certainly lead many to speculate that the Fed will taper its asset purchasing program this year rather than next. Keep an eye on Friday's jobs report. It's going to be a big one.¬†
Aberlour WhiskyContrary to a belief widely held by scotch drinkers, scotch whisky did not come from heaven. It came from a slightly colder, though more accessible, place ‚Äî Scotland. According to the U.K.-based Scotch Whisky Association, record of the manufacturing of this liquid treasure dates as far back as 1494. An entry on the Exchequer Rolls (taxes) of that year reads: 'Eight bolls of malt to Friar John Cor wherewith to make aqua vitae' (water of life). They definitely understood the importance of the drink at the very least. Since the time of Christopher Columbus, scotch has spread around the world. It's well-loved from Japan to the Latin America. As always, however, it's important to remember how things are done in the motherland. It's important to understand how to drink scotch like a Scotsman, and why they drink it that way. To understand that, Business Insider connected with a Scotswoman and student of scotch history, Ann Miller. She's the international brand ambassador of Aberlour Scotch Whisky. It was the kind of rough and tumble, grit-your-teeth scotch reporting you would expect from such an assignment. From all the way in the motherland, Miller demonstrated the proper to way to drink scotch (like a Scotsman) over a Google Hangout. It was fraught, sure, but also delicious. "The main reason why we drink whisky is this wonderful array of flavors in the glass," said Miller. She also pointed out that it gets really, really cold in Scotland, and scotch helps you "drink a jacket" (she didn't say that, we described it that way ‚Äî just so we're clear). Now, when you walk into a bar in Scotland and you request a glass of scotch you should probably ask for a double. Why? Because according to Scottish law (and this dates back to the Middle Ages), a "dram" or one serving of liquor, is 0.25 centiliters ‚Äî or 2.5 grams. For most people that isn't enough, and thus the popularity fo the "double dram" of scotch order. Once you've got that taken care of, you may stop because you like your scotch neat. Neat, however, is not the way of the Scotsman. Neither, particularly, is adding ice.¬†Miller says that with the addition of ice, "you're losing all the subtle aromas and flavors of the scotch." The ice freezes those flavors, as you might expect. However, if ice is your thing there is usually an ice bucket on the bar in Scotland from which you can take "one lump or two" (yes, "lump" = ice if you have to ask). Now that that's out of the way, there's this ‚Äî the Scotsman drinks his scotch with water. "Never have water without whiskey, but never have whiskey without water," said Miller. When the water hits the amber liquid, at least with¬†Aberlour A‚Äôbunadh (the bottle we tried) it starts to look hazy. That's because A‚Äôbunadh is non chill-filtered, other flavors of Aberlour won't get hazy because they are filtered (keep that in mind). In your mouth, you'll taste flavors of orange and cinnamon spice at first, and then afterward, and with the addition of more water, you'll taste chocolate. (Remember: flavors vary from brand to brand). Regardless, once you've added water, then you can really start to work on your jacket. Now, this isn't the way everywhere. In France, says Miller, scotch is mostly drunk neat as an aperitif, for example. Who knows where they got that idea from.
Time MagazineCarl Icahn is stepping up his battle with Apple.¬† On Twitter, he says, "we‚Äôll be making a precatory proposal to call for vote to increase buyback program, although not at $150 billion level." CNBC reporter David Faber says Icahn wants a $50 billion buyback. His tweet was timed to coincide with the release of a Time magazine profile of Icahn pegged to his battle with Apple.¬† For the most part Icahn sounds reasonable. He doesn't sound particularly hostile.¬† Even the precatory proposal is pretty tame. A precatory proposal isn't binding, it's just a suggestion for the management, basically.¬† "Tim Cook is doing a good job with the business," says Icahn. "I think he‚Äôs good whether he does what I want or not," but "Apple is not a bank." Apple has $147 billion in cash on hand. Icahn thinks it should be returning more of that cash to shareholders.¬† "I‚Äôm not against the management of this company. But they‚Äôve got too much money on their balance sheet," Icahn tells Time.¬† Apple for its part says it has a $100 billion capital return program. And on its most recent earnings call, it said that it was essentially returning all the cash it generated in the U.S. right back to shareholders. If Apple were to use the overseas cash, it would be taxed.¬† Icahn has been raging on about Apple for a few months now, but there's been no change in Apple's policy yet. This cover story for Time is his biggest, most public attack to date.¬† You can see the story here &gt; And, here's Apple's CFO from the most recent earnings call via Seeking Alpha: Turning to our cash, we ended the quarter with 146.8 billion in cash plus short term and long term marketable securities, a sequential increase of $100 million from the June quarter. Our domestic cash was 35.5 billion at the end of the September quarter, a sequential decline of 5.2 billion largely attributable to our share repurchase activity. $111.3 billion or 76% of our total cash was offshore at the end of the September quarter, and cash flow from operations was $9.9 billion. We paid $2.8 billion in dividends in the quarter and we executed an additional $5 billion in repurchases up 10.4 million shares of Apple stock during the quarter. This brings us to a cumulative total of $36 billion in payments for dividends and share repurchases over the last five quarters of which share buybacks were $23 billion. This has resulted in cumulative retirement of almost 47 million shares and represents 5% of the total shares outstanding prior to the launch of our repurchase program. More than 44 million of these shares have been retired in the past two quarters alone. Finally given that our capital return program must be funded from domestic cash, and as a result of our payments to date, the cash that we can net domestically and return to shareholders to stop accumulating. In fact we give return to shareholders who invested essentially all of the increase in available net cash generated since the beginning of our capital return program in 2012. Our Board of Directors has declared a dividend of $3.05 for common share payable on November 14, 2013 to shareholders of record as in the close of this on November 11, 2013.
Wikimedia CommonsRaymond James' Jeff Saut loves him some Burgundy wine. The market strategist is a longtime connoisseur, and his favorite French bottle is¬†La T√¢che, a rare French Burgundy. "I used to buy them in the 80s, for 6...7...800 dollars," Saut told Business Insider. So imagine his surprise when he went into Morrell wine shop in Manhattan (for an interview with Bloomberg Radio), and saw that his old favorite is retailing for $5,000. Morrell only had one bottle, a 2010 vintage, and Saut says the salesperson told him the price was so high because "the Chinese are buying up a lot of really high-end, First Growth wine." Saut says he switched to Pinot Noir, the less-tasty American rendition of France's Burgundy, once prices starting going up in the 1990s. But $5,000 was just beyond belief. The phenomenon has been around for some time. Chinese wine consumption has doubled twice in the last 5 years, according to Morgan Stanley. By 2016, China is set to become the world's largest global wine consumer. Rising exports to China has Burgundy lovers clamoring to get their hands on bottles ‚Äî and paying a premium price to do so,¬†as the¬†New York Times reported last year. Plus, it hasn't helped that Burgundy harvests in particular have had a rough few years. "La T√¢che¬†is arguably my favorite in the world, but I'm not paying 5 grand for it," Saut said. "Evidently the Chinese are."
Elsa/GettyImagesWe just got the Fed's Beige Book survey of constituent businesses for December. The consensus is that the economy is growing "modestly to moderately," and as a result, the Fed won't its monetary policy trajectory. There was one major seasonal, if local, factor providing some lift to the economy: the Boston Red Sox, According to the Fed's First District, the Carmines' victory over the Cardinals in October gave a significant boost to area retail sales. "October was particularly good for Boston hotel and restaurant activity, exceeding the usual expectations for this traditionally busiest month, on account of the additional business brought in by the World Series appearance of the Red Sox. Hotel revenues were up 7.5 percent year-over-year, supported by an increase in occupancy rates. Transportation services also benefitted from higher-than-usual demand.¬† Some solace for the Fed's Eighth District, seated in St. Louis? ¬†Read the full beige book results here ¬ª
San Francisco FedThe Federal Reserve's December Beige Book is out. The report on U.S. business conditions based on anecdotal data characterized economic growth as "modest to moderate," as it did in October. "Hiring showed a modest increase or was unchanged across Districts," reads the text of the report. "Difficulty with finding qualified workers, especially for high-skilled positions, was frequently reported. Upward pressure on wages and overall price inflation were contained. Contacts in many Districts voiced concern about future cost increases attributable to the Affordable Care Act and other types of federal regulation." Here is more on the employment situation: Hiring showed a modest increase in the Philadelphia, Richmond, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts, while hiring in the remaining Districts was largely unchanged. Industries that reported moderate employment growth included construction, software and IT services, manufacturing, and healthcare. Temporary holiday hiring is in progress. Cleveland reported that year-over-year growth in retail holiday hiring is expected to be flat; however, some employers noted that they are having difficulty finding seasonal workers. In Chicago, part-time seasonal hiring is slightly lower than normal as a result of retailers' choosing to increase current employees' hours instead of hiring new workers. Some employers in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts reported having difficulty finding qualified workers for certain permanent, high-skilled positions. In Philadelphia, a builder reported that contractors are reluctant to hire workers who require training. Instead, contractors are aggressively hiring skilled labor from each other. On net, staffing services across Districts remain more optimistic than they were three months ago, expecting steady growth through the end of the year and into 2014. Below is the full text of the release: Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that the economy continued to expand at a modest to moderate pace from early October through mid-November. Activity in the New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts grew at a moderate pace, while Philadelphia, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco cited modest growth. Boston reported that economic activity continued to expand. Manufacturing activity continued to expand in most Districts, with gains noted in the motor-vehicle and high-technology industries. Manufacturers in many Districts expressed optimism about near-term growth prospects. Demand for professional business services experienced stable to moderate growth, especially in computer technologies. Freight volume showed signs of strengthening. Reports on retail spending were positive. Looking forward to the holiday shopping season, retailers reported being hopeful, but cautious. Sales of new motor vehicles were reported as moderate to strong across much of the United States. Tourism increased in most reporting Districts, although the federal government shutdown had a negative impact in some areas.†Residential real estate activity improved across many Districts, with multifamily construction experiencing moderate to strong growth. Some slowing in single-family home sales was attributed to seasonal factors. Activity in nonresidential real estate was stable or improved slightly across many Districts. Agricultural conditions were generally favorable. Mining activity was mixed, while natural gas production increased. Banking conditions were largely stable, with some improvement seen in loan demand. Several Districts reported an easing of lending standards. Hiring showed a modest increase or was unchanged across Districts. Difficulty with finding qualified workers, especially for high-skilled positions, was frequently reported. Upward pressure on wages and overall price inflation were contained. Contacts in many Districts voiced concern about future cost increases attributable to the Affordable Care Act and other types of federal regulation.†ManufacturingManufacturing activity expanded at a modest to moderate pace in most Districts during the reporting period. Firms in Philadelphia and Cleveland are beginning to take a more conservative stance toward capital spending, while capital outlays remain solid in Boston and Kansas City. Companies across a number of sectors in Philadelphia noted a reduction in activity due to the federal government shutdown, while defense contractors in Boston reported that sequestration has not yet affected them significantly. Chicago highlighted the motor-vehicle industry as a main source of strength due to a large number of new vehicle launches and increasing demand for medium- and heavy-duty trucks. Cleveland and St. Louis also reported increased motor-vehicle production. Steel producers in Dallas and San Francisco indicated that demand was steady, while producers in Cleveland and Chicago experienced a slight drop-off in production, even though they are beginning to see a reduction in the quantity of steel imports. San Francisco noted an increase in demand for semiconductors driven by demand for mobile-technology products, while the aerospace industry in the Pacific Northwest reported a large backlog of orders for commercial aircraft. High-tech manufacturing firms in the Dallas District said that demand was flat to modestly weaker; however, respondents expect a gradual increase in demand over the next three to six months. In Kansas City, sales among high-tech firms moderated but were positive overall; several firms cited a reduction in government contracts due to sequestration as the main cause for the slowing. Wood-product manufacturers in Minneapolis and San Francisco saw an improvement in business activity. Contacts in the Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts expressed varying degrees of optimism about near-term business activity. Nonetheless, some contacts in Cleveland and Chicago observed that heightened levels of uncertainty, driven in part by fiscal issues, could dampen demand. Nonfinancial ServicesDemand for nonfinancial services was stable or grew at a moderate pace across most reporting Districts. Boston and San Francisco noted that demand for software and information technology (IT) services was strong. IT contacts in Boston have grown more optimistic and are expecting continued growth into 2014. The Richmond District noted growth in server farms. Dallas reported that multiple service sectors, including accounting, legal, and intellectual property, were experiencing stable to improving demand. Most of the Districts that commented on the partial shutdown of the federal government said that its impact on service providers was modest or temporary. The Dallas District reported that airline activity is mixed but has increased since the cessation of the shutdown; however, seasonal factors were also noted. Concerns linger in Dallas about the upcoming second round of sequestration cuts. Transportation and freight services, especially those related to railroads, ports, and trucking, strengthened across Districts. Port activity in Richmond was robust, with exports of containerized grain and imports of housing-related products continuing to grow. Imports and exports of autos and auto parts remained strong. Year-to-date shipping volumes were higher in Cleveland when compared to the same time period in 2012. Freight haulers were hiring for both replacement and capacity expansion. Retail and e-commerce activity in Dallas continued to drive growth in the transportation sector. Logistics contacts in Atlanta were forecasting record volumes during the holiday season due to online sales. Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending increased in almost all Districts at a modest to moderate pace. A Boston retailer noted that sales performance during the 2013 holiday season will be a better test of what seems to be an improving trend. Philadelphia retailers reported hopeful, but very uncertain expectations for the holiday season, while retailer expectations in the Atlanta District for the holiday season are only mildly optimistic. Stores in Minneapolis and Kansas City are cautiously optimistic about the buying mood of holiday shoppers. Demand for home furnishings was strongest in Boston, Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City. Apparel sales were strong in the Boston, Cleveland, and Kansas City Districts. Retailers in Boston, New York, Cleveland, and Dallas indicated that their store inventories are at desired levels. Sales of new motor vehicles continued at a moderate to strong pace across most Districts, although Dallas reported a slight decline, which was attributed to a lack of consumer confidence and continued uncertainty. Motor-vehicle purchases in Kansas City were flat. Dealers in Cleveland and St. Louis saw a pick up in purchases of SUVs and cross-over vehicles. Chicago indicated that lower gasoline prices were motivating buyers to shift away from more fuel-efficient vehicles. Used-car sales were mixed, with Cleveland and St. Louis reporting an increase, while purchases in the New York District were soft. Reports on tourism varied. Due to the federal government shutdown, tourist destinations in the Boston, Richmond, and Minneapolis Districts experienced lower traffic. In Philadelphia, some super-storm Sandy-affected areas of the New Jersey shore continued to experience lighter traffic than normal. Boston reported that tourism activity at hotels and restaurants exceeded usual expectations due to additional business brought in by the World Series. New York reported strong tourism activity attributed in part to Broadway performance openings. Cold-weather expectations have boosted ski bookings in Richmond. Contacts there noted that the strength in bookings has allowed them to raise rates for the first time in several years. Atlanta and Minneapolis reported that tourism expanded. In the San Francisco District, Hawaii maintained its solid pace of growth. In contrast, Las Vegas tourism remained relatively weak, and contacts pointed to a moderate year-over-year decline in automobile traffic in the region. Real Estate and ConstructionResidential real estate activity improved in Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco, while remaining steady or softening in other Districts. Some slowing in single-family home sales was attributed to seasonal factors. Nonetheless, sales remain largely above year-ago levels. Increasing demand, low to declining levels of inventory, and slowly rising new-home construction were cited by almost all Districts as reasons for a continued rise in home prices, but at a slower pace than was observed earlier in 2013. Historically low inventories of unsold homes were reported in Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas. Chicago noted that the inventory of homes for sale is at a record low. In the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts, builders continued to face a scarcity of high-skilled trade workers. Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and Chicago indicated that multifamily construction continued to experience moderate to strong growth, with strength concentrated in the apartment segment. Vacancy rates declined across most Districts. Commercial real estate activity remained stable or improved slightly across many Districts. Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis all saw gains in industrial construction, while Boston, Chicago, and St. Louis cited a rise in hotel construction. The technology sector drove demand for commercial real estate in the San Francisco District, and Cleveland saw gains in affordable housing and shale-gas-related activity. The outlook of market participants is for continued improvement in the Philadelphia, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts, while contacts were cautiously optimistic in Boston and Cleveland. Banking and FinanceOn balance, banking conditions remained stable in a majority of reporting Districts. Loan volume showed a modest increase in Philadelphia, Chicago, and San Francisco, while Boston and Atlanta reported a moderate rise. Dallas noted that loan demand softened across most lines of business during the reporting period. An increase in business-credit activity was seen in a number of Districts. Commercial real estate lending increased in New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco. Demand for commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) loans rose in the New York, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts, but weakened in St. Louis. C&amp;I lending was unchanged in Chicago. In the Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts, some bankers eased lending standards in response to aggressive competition for quality loans. Lending standards remained unchanged across loan categories in New York, Cleveland, St Louis, and Kansas City. Consumer borrowing weakened in a few Districts, including New York, Richmond, and St. Louis. In Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas, demand for consumer loans was little changed, while it increased in Chicago. Lower residential mortgage activity was reported in many Districts. Bankers in Cleveland, Richmond, and Atlanta attributed the decline in part to higher interest rates than earlier in the year. New York, Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas reported declines in refinancing activity as well. Several Districts reported increased credit quality, as delinquencies have continued to decline and fewer problem loans have been reported. Agriculture†and Natural ResourcesStrong crop yields were reported, while in general, agricultural commodity prices fell and drought conditions stabilized or improved. Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City reported strong crop yields for fall harvests. Contacts in the Kansas City District noted decreases in farm incomes and increases in the demand for farm operating loans, as prices softened in response to rising yields. The Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts indicated strong demand and increased profitability in livestock due to lower feed costs. Atlanta contacts reported making investments in various types of agricultural equipment as a means to further improve production and contain costs. Prices paid to farmers for wheat, corn, and soybeans fell in Atlanta, Chicago, and Minneapolis. However, in Chicago, higher exports cushioned the decline. The Kansas City District indicated rising farmland values, although the rate of increase slowed. Reports indicated a continued expansion in energy demand and production. Coal mining activity was mixed across the Cleveland and Richmond Districts and higher in St. Louis. In Cleveland and Richmond, the completion of pipeline connections and gas-processing plants contributed to an increase in natural gas drilling and extraction, while gas production rose in the Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. San Francisco noted an increase in wind and solar energy production facilities. In Minneapolis, regulatory approval has been obtained for a large wind farm in North Dakota. The Minneapolis District also reported solid mining activity in precious metals and an increase in iron ore production, while oil and gas exploration was flat or fell slightly. Employment, Wages, and PricesHiring showed a modest increase in the Philadelphia, Richmond, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts, while hiring in the remaining Districts was largely unchanged. Industries that reported moderate employment growth included construction, software and IT services, manufacturing, and healthcare. Temporary holiday hiring is in progress. Cleveland reported that year-over-year growth in retail holiday hiring is expected to be flat; however, some employers noted that they are having difficulty finding seasonal workers. In Chicago, part-time seasonal hiring is slightly lower than normal as a result of retailers' choosing to increase current employees' hours instead of hiring new workers. Some employers in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts reported having difficulty finding qualified workers for certain permanent, high-skilled positions. In Philadelphia, a builder reported that contractors are reluctant to hire workers who require training. Instead, contractors are aggressively hiring skilled labor from each other. On net, staffing services across Districts remain more optimistic than they were three months ago, expecting steady growth through the end of the year and into 2014. Overall wage pressures remain contained across most Districts, with a modest increase reported in Boston, New York, and Dallas. Contacts in the Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted some upward pressure on wages for skilled jobs, such as craft labor, engineering, IT, and accounting. Contacts in California's restaurant industry projected higher labor costs, as the state's minimum wage increases take hold over the next few years. Builders in the Philadelphia and Cleveland Districts cited a scarcity of high-skilled trade workers. As a result, there is upward pressure on wages, and subcontractors are demanding and getting higher rates. Price inflation is contained, with phrases such as "minimal," "no change," and "stable" being common across most Districts.†However, in New York, service-sector firms reported that price pressure was moderate and that a sizable number of firms were planning at least some price increases in the coming months. The Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts also commented that prices for residential construction materials, such as lumber and drywall, continued to rise, but the Cleveland District noted that the rate of increase has recently slowed. Contacts across many Districts continue to voice concerns about future cost increases attributable to the Affordable Care Act and other types of federal regulation. † † Return to top Retail and TourismThis round's retail contacts report year-over-year comp store sales increases between 7 percent and 25 percent, with one firm down 3 percent. Demand continues to be strong for apparel, home furnishings, and furniture. Inventories are well managed and prices remain steady. Compared to earlier rounds this year, sentiment is a bit more optimistic, or as one source opines, conditions "will not get any worse." Another respondent notes that the first two weeks of November showed some real underlying strength, but also states that sales performance during the 2013 holiday season will be a better test of what seems to be an improving trend. About one-third of contacts have raised their expectations for overall 2013 sales in light of their third quarter results. October was particularly good for Boston hotel and restaurant activity, exceeding the usual expectations for this traditionally busiest month, on account of the additional business brought in by the World Series appearance of the Red Sox. Hotel revenues were up 7.5 percent year-over-year, supported by an increase in occupancy rates. Transportation services also benefitted from higher-than-usual demand. Some New England tourist attractions suffered from the government shutdown, notably those run by the National Park Service or the Navy (U.S.S. Constitution) and the private firms depending on their visitors. Museums and other attractions continue to experience declining attendance; their revenues are down 6 percent year-over-year. Manufacturing and Related ServicesOnly one of the ten firms contacted this cycle reports falling sales. A plastics firm indicates that its core bulk chemical business is slowing--"coming in for a landing"--and its retail garden hose business is "the worst in memory." Two contacts report that sales growth is flat. The first is a computer software firm that largely serves the defense industry; the second is a manufacturer of electrical distribution equipment for whom strong residential demand is being offset by very weak non-residential. A firm that makes tools for home improvement reports that sales are up, but less than they had expected. Defense firms continue to say that sequestration has not yet affected them significantly. All manufacturing respondents report it is difficult or impossible to raise their product prices. A contact in the bulk chemical business said input prices are falling, which he sees as evidence that "no one in the industry is buying." A commercial aircraft parts manufacturer says that major firms in the industry are trying to drive costs down and, among other things, forcing more and more subcontracting. None of our contacts reports staff cuts, but only four indicate they are increasing staff. The home improvement equipment firm reports they are bringing 250 jobs back to the United States from China and Mexico. A semiconductor equipment firm plans to hire only contract workers. One contact says the Affordable Care Act is significantly increasing health care costs for his firm. Most First District respondents continue trying to keep inventories low. Firms that increased inventory mostly say they are doing so in anticipation of higher sales. By exception, the hose manufacturer cites massive inventory accumulation due to low demand. Two contacts report lower capital spending while the rest cite either no change or an increase since the last conversation. One firm reducing investment did so because a major project was completed. A manufacturer of electrical distribution devices says the only thing holding back investment is a shortage of "talent" to execute new projects. First District manufacturers are mostly optimistic, but guardedly so. The bulk chemical business contact says the slowdown in his industry is serious but not long-term. Firms with substantial exposure to defense are unwilling to make any forecasts due to uncertainty about the budget process. Software and Information Technology ServicesNew England software and information technology services contacts generally report stronger-than-expected business activity through November, with modest improvements in both revenues and earnings since August 2013. Contacts attribute this growth to factors ranging from increased consumer demand to improved execution at the firm level. Most contacts expect to report positive year-over-year earnings growth at the end of 2013. By contrast, a healthcare contact reports negative growth due to the expiration of federal stimulus funding for health records software; however, this decline is much smaller than expected. While one firm shed some jobs, most firms either maintained headcounts or slightly increased their hiring pace. Wages have been steady, with plans for merit increases at the end of this quarter in the 3 percent to 5 percent range. Both selling prices and capital and technology spending have gone largely unchanged in recent months. Looking forward, New England software and IT contacts are more optimistic than they were in August, expecting continued growth through the first quarter of 2014. Staffing ServicesNew England staffing contacts generally report strengthened business conditions through November, with low-double-digit quarter-over-quarter revenue growth, and year-over-year revenue growth in the 3 percent to 10 percent range. This uptick reportedly reflects both an improved macroeconomic climate and changes in firms' business development strategies. Only one staffing contact reports softer results, with revenues in New England down 10 percent year-over-year. Labor demand is largely unchanged since August 2013; one contact reports increased demand in the software and mobile application development sector. Labor supply has thinned in recent months across all industries, and is particularly tight in the software/IT and engineering sectors. Firm strategies to attract more job candidates include improved marketing tactics, and an exchange program that temporarily brings in IT professionals from abroad. The temporary-to-permanent rate continues to be strong, with one contact reporting a 50 percent increase this year. Bill rates and pay rates have either remained flat or have modestly increased since August. Looking forward, staffing contacts are generally more optimistic than they were three months ago, expecting steady growth through the end of the year. Commercial Real EstateContacts across the First District report that leasing fundamentals maintained a very slow pace of improvement in recent weeks, consistent with minimal-to-slow employment growth. However, in some parts of Boston--the Seaport District and Back Bay--absorption has accelerated in recent months and, for the first time since before the Great Recession, speculative office construction is starting to occur. In Rhode Island, tenants are showing an increased willingness to commit to longer-term lease renewals (5-10 years), following an extended period during which shorter-term renewals were favored. At the same time, projected state budget deficits for Rhode Island, and political uncertainty over how such budget gaps will be closed, are seen as a crimp on business expansion in the state. A Connecticut contact echoes the theme of political uncertainty as a drag on growth, as that state is also facing large budget shortfalls in coming fiscal years. A regional lender to commercial real estate cites the U.S. government shutdown as the cause of a sharp decline in loan inquiries, but borrowing activity at the bank has since resumed at a healthy pace. The lending environment remains highly favorable to borrowers, with historically low borrowing rates and increasingly loose lending standards--even too loose in relation to fundamentals, according to some contacts. Abundant investment capital continues to flow into commercial properties across the region, sourced from private equity firms, pension funds, foreign investors, REITs, and high net-worth individuals. †Leverage ratios are reportedly on the rise among some investors, but one contact points out that they remain low in absolute terms. In Boston and surrounding suburbs, construction activity (both current and planned) is reportedly on the rise in both the hotel and retail sectors. The growth rate of multifamily construction--recently quite high in metro Boston--is expected to slow considerably within 12 to 18 months, while construction in the health care sector across the region is seen as restrained by uncertainty over the implications of national health care reform. Contacts are cautiously optimistic across the region. Forecasts call for more slow improvement in fundamentals moving forward, pending steady (if slow) employment growth. However, fiscal policy uncertainty at both the state (noted above) and national levels is mentioned by a few contacts as a downside risk to employment growth and hence to improvements in leasing and construction activity. Residential Real EstateBased on numbers for September and contacts' "sense" of October results, it appears that sales of single-family homes and condos continue to improve throughout New England, while prices continue to approach, and in some states exceed, pre-recession levels. Sentiment across the region is that the recovery is well underway, but sales activity will likely begin to moderate in the months ahead as winter approaches. Pending sales are expected to decline in a few states, and contacts in the field attribute the decline at least partially to a drop in consumer confidence resulting from the recent government shutdown. While some contacts cite consumers upgrading homes, respondents in other states say sales growth is driven primarily by first-time home buyers. Contacts in Maine and Connecticut also cite an uptick in foreclosures and short sales coming onto the market. The other New England states, however, claim unconventional sales generate a relatively small percentage of total sales. New federal flood insurance legislation and new flood maps drawn by FEMA continue to generate concern across the region as insurance rates are expected to rise and make houses located in potential flood areas more expensive to own. Those worries notwithstanding, the overall message is that this has been a turnaround year in First District residential markets, although economic factors could still change the trajectory of the recovery. Return to top Consumer SpendingRetailers report that sales have improved since the last report and have generally been ahead of plan. One major retail chain reports that sales were on plan in October and looking stronger in early November, while another chain indicates that they have been above plan throughout. New York City stores have continued to out-perform slightly those in the rest of the region. Contacts at major malls in upstate New York note that sales picked up somewhat in October and early November and are running roughly on par with 2012 levels. Inventories are said to be at desired levels. Retail contacts widely describe the pricing environment as more promotional than in 2012. New auto sales are characterized as quite strong: auto dealers in both the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales were up 20 percent or more from a year earlier in October, with strength projected to continue into November. Sales of used automobiles, in contrast, have remained soft. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases are again reported to be in good shape. Tourism activity has remained strong since the last report. Manhattan hotels report that occupancy rates remained high in October, with room rates up moderately from 2012 levels. Hotels in the upper Hudson Valley also report that business has been strong. Attendance and revenues at Broadway theaters have continued to trend up in October and into early November, as more shows have opened. While year-earlier comparisons are distorted due to Sandy disruptions last November, recent levels look robust for this time of the season. Consumer confidence in the region weakened in October. The Conference Board's survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence retreating from a nearly six year high, while Siena College's survey of New York State residents indicates a more pronounced drop, to a nearly two-year low. Construction and Real EstateResidential real estate markets in the District have been mixed since the last report. Contacts in western New York State continue to describe market conditions as robust in October and into early November: sales volume has been exceptionally strong, prices continue to rise, and there are ongoing reports of multiple offers and price wars. Sales activity in New York City's co-op and condo market, on the other hand, has retreated in the 4th quarter, following an exceptionally strong third quarter, and prices have leveled off. While there is a reasonable amount of new development at the high end of the market, inventories across the rest of the market remain lean. Manhattan's rental market has also softened slightly, with rents running modestly lower than a year earlier. A contact in New Jersey's housing industry reports some seasonal slowing in activity in October, suggesting some leveling off in market conditions. Single-family construction in the state remains weak, though there is a fair amount of multi-family development, as well as renovation and alteration work. A large overhang of properties in foreclosure is said to be holding back prices and dissuading some owners from selling. Commercial real estate markets have also been mixed thus far in the fourth quarter. In Manhattan, the outer boroughs, and Long Island, office vacancy rates continue to drift down, while asking rents continue to rise--though only modestly for Class A properties. Northern New Jersey's office vacancy rate is little changed at a high level, while asking rents are flat. However, in the Westchester/Fairfield markets and across upstate New York, vacancy rates climbed to multi-year highs. Industrial markets have also been mixed, with conditions strengthening noticeably in downstate New York and northern New Jersey, but slackening across upstate New York. Other Business ActivityOn balance, the labor market has been steady to slightly stronger since the last report. Overall, businesses indicate that they are increasingly likely to add workers in the months ahead--particularly manufacturers. One major employment agency reports that the government shutdown in October took some momentum out of hiring, but that business has been steady in recent weeks. Another agency indicates little change in the market, with somewhat less of a seasonal slowdown than expected thus far--possibly due to mild weather. Salary offers have reportedly increased slightly. One employment agency contact observes that companies are increasingly inclined to hire long-term, full-time workers, as opposed to temps. Manufacturing firms in the District report that activity has leveled off in recent weeks. But businesses in other sectors report increasingly widespread increases in activity. Both groups continue to express fairly widespread optimism about the near-term outlook. Businesses generally report some easing in input price pressures; manufacturers report that their selling prices remain steady, though service-sector firms overall report moderate price hikes, and a sizable number plan at least some price hike in the months ahead. Financial DevelopmentsSmall to medium sized banks across the Second District report decreased demand for consumer loans and residential mortgages but increased demand for commercial mortgages and commercial &amp; industrial loans. Bankers also report a decrease in demand for refinancing. Respondents indicate that credit standards were unchanged across all loan categories but note a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories--particularly commercial mortgages. Respondents report no change in the average deposit rate. Finally, bankers report continued declines in delinquency rates for all loan categories except for residential mortgages, where rates have leveled off. † Return to top Despite a slower pace of growth in some sectors, contacts overall maintained an outlook for moderate growth--similar to the last Beige Book. Contacts in most sectors continued to express confidence in the underlying economy.† In particular, manufacturers and service-sector firms expressed strong confidence in the U.S. economy and in global conditions. In regard to hiring and capital expenditure plans, firms continued to expand cautiously, as they face ongoing uncertainty from federal fiscal debates and implementation of the Affordable Care Act. ManufacturingThird District manufacturers have reported continued increases in orders and shipments at a slight pace of growth overall since the last Beige Book. One-third of all firms reported increases--about the same as before. However, one-fourth of the firms reported decreases--somewhat higher than before. The makers of food products, paper products, fabricated metals, and instruments have reported gains since the last Beige Book. Reports of decreases came from the makers of lumber and wood products, chemicals, primary metals, and industrial machinery as well as the makers of stone, clay, and glass products. Some reports reflect seasonal trends. Firms across several sectors noted a reduction in activity due to the government shutdown. One contact reported:† "We definitely noticed a quieter period during the first two weeks of October." Another said that "the debt ceiling debate is having a chilling effect on demand." Despite disruptions from the shutdown, one large industrial supplier reported that conditions have been improving steadily since a trough in July. Significantly more firms (over half) reported increases in their total workforce compared with the firms that reported increases one year ago (one-third). Also, the average rate of capacity utilization reported by firms was slightly higher this year. Optimism that business conditions will improve over the next six months remained high although not quite as high as during the prior Beige Book period. While over half of the firms continued to anticipate increases in activity, some firms expected decreases in activity, where there had been none before. One contact reported that "clear fiscal policy can help spur more growth, while fiscal dysfunction will most likely derail economic activity. I do not know what to expect for early 2014." Though still positive overall, contacts have reported somewhat lower expectations of hiring and capital spending plans since the last Beige Book. RetailThird District retailers have continued to report modest growth overall since the last Beige Book. Contacts cited some negative impacts from the government shutdown and cautioned that year-over-year comparisons might be overly strong due to last year's impacts from Hurricane Sandy. Retailers reported hopeful, but very uncertain, expectations for their all-important 2013 holiday season. Shifting from the longest shopping season last year to the shortest shopping season this year has prompted considerable jockeying by traditional and online retailers over the timing and scope of their promotional offerings. More stores plan to open on Thanksgiving Day than ever before; some Black Friday deals are being offered earlier. Retailers may gain more clarity after Black Friday and Cyber Monday results are tallied, but a complete picture may require sales results for November, December, and January.† Auto dealers have reported continued strong sales since the last Beige Book period. Pennsylvania dealers reported some softness during the government shutdown. New Jersey dealers reported stronger sales activity but cautioned that year-over-year comparisons for October through year-end will be affected by last year's storm impacts--first as sales lagged during the storm and its immediate aftermath, then soared as replacement vehicles were purchased. Dealers reported that they remain bullish on sales for "at least the next twelve months."† FinanceOverall, Third District financial firms continued to report modest increases in total loan volume. Most loan categories appeared to grow somewhat; however, contacts reported essentially no change in commercial real estate loan volumes. Demand remained strong for financing of multifamily housing projects. Several contacts noted that consumers are increasing their use of home equity lines rather than refinancing to do home improvements. Contacts reported that the low interest rate environment has been helpful for businesses generally and that borrowers' financial statements are looking better. However, small businesses remained "reluctant to borrow." Banking contacts continued to express concerns about aggressive competition on rates and terms, suggesting that credit standards have continued to ease slightly. Overall, most bankers remained optimistic, albeit for continued slow, steady growth. Real Estate and ConstructionThird District homebuilders have reported little change in their modest pace of activity since the last Beige Book. One builder reported greater interest in the last few weeks after weaker activity at the outset; his competitors had struggled early as well. With recent small drops in gas prices and interest rates and the rise in stocks, he wondered where the buyers were. Another builder reported that the government shutdown and general malaise seemed to be contributing to the soft demand. Another builder reported that contractors remain reluctant to invest in new capacity and to hire workers requiring training. Instead, contractors are "stealing" skilled labor from each other. According to residential real estate brokers, sales of existing homes resumed double-digit growth rates (year over year) in most of the Third District's major metropolitan areas. Reported increases ranged from 17 percent in October for the Lehigh Valley to 27 percent in the Harrisburg area. Contacts for the Philadelphia metropolitan statistical area and southern New Jersey also reported growth in excess of 20 percent. The inventory of homes for sale continued to fall in all markets. Nonresidential real estate contacts indicated little change in the slight growth rate of construction and the modest pace of overall leasing activity. Demand remains strongest for new construction of industrial buildings, hospitals, schools, and other institutions. Multifamily buildings for apartments and condos also remain in greater demand. Leasing agents, management companies, and commercial market analysts remained optimistic for steady progress in various sectors and locations within the Third District. ServicesThird District service-sector firms continued to report a moderate pace of growth overall; staffing firms and tourism maintained a more modest pace. Tourism along the Delaware and New Jersey shores is seasonably slow. Storm-impacted areas of the Jersey shore continued to experience somewhat lighter traffic than normal but most parts of the Jersey shore as well as Delaware beaches experienced normal activity. Tourism is expected to be back to normal next year, except for those few areas that lost the greatest number of homes during the storm. Other service firms reported modest to moderate growth rates. Contacts described growth during the recent Beige Book period as "steady" and "nothing exciting," with no significant impact from the government shutdown. The steady recovery in the residential housing sector was cited by contacts from a variety of service sectors as underpinning their own steady gains. Staffing firms also reported steady growth in demand for temp placements, especially in manufacturing, distribution, and health care. Overall, service-sector firms remain confident that current trends will continue with a possibility for a slightly faster pace of growth. Prices and WagesOverall, Third District contacts reported no change to the steady, slight pace of price level increases, similar to the previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms reported that prices paid and prices received moved higher again. Auto dealers and general retailers reported little change in pricing, and most builders reported holding prices steady. One builder offered price incentives in October that drove additional sales. Many contacts reported coping with extremely tight margins. Generally, real estate contacts continued to report rising prices for lower-priced homes, while higher-priced homes are aligned to local market conditions. Very few contacts are seeing wage pressures, other than for a few highly skilled occupations.† Return to top Hiring was sluggish across most industry sectors, though we did see a pickup in construction. Staffing-firm representatives reported that the number of job openings and placements increased slightly, with vacancies found primarily in healthcare and manufacturing. Wage pressures remain contained. Input and finished goods prices saw little change, apart from increases in residential construction materials and steel. ManufacturingReports from†District factories showed that demand was steady to growing at a robust pace during the past six weeks. Companies seeing the strongest activity were suppliers to the aerospace, housing, motor-vehicle, and oil and gas industries. A few contacts noted that they are starting to see improvements in European markets. Defense contractors are still coping with uncertainty, due primarily to government fiscal issues. Compared to a year ago, manufacturing production levels are mainly higher. Looking forward, most of our respondents expect little change in demand other than normal seasonal variation, though several manufacturers cited the regulatory environment and the dampening effect it could have on confidence. Steel producers and service centers reported that shipping volume is below expectations due in part to customers keeping their inventories at low levels. Most of our respondents remain concerned about the quantity of steel imports, though a few noted that they are beginning to see a decline in the amount being imported. Steel producers do not expect market conditions to change appreciably in the next few months apart from seasonal variation. District auto production was strong during October, with production numbers showing sizeable increases on a month-over-month and year-over-year basis. Capacity utilization rates have risen during the past few months for some of our contacts, but almost all reported sufficient capacity to absorb additional demand spikes. Only one contact reported that he is considering expanding capacity. Capital expenditures are in line with budgeted amounts for the fiscal year. Outlays are being allocated primarily for productivity enhancements and information-technology upgrades. Several manufacturers indicated that they are taking a more conservative stance toward upcoming capital budgets until there is a higher degree of certainty about the economy. Growth in raw material and finished goods prices was generally flat. We heard a few reports about rising steel prices, which manufacturers successfully passed through to their customers. Factories expanded payrolls at a sluggish pace. Real EstateSales of new single-family homes declined slightly during the past six weeks, which builders attributed to seasonal factors and a lowering of consumer confidence. Multifamily construction remains strong. New-home contracts were found mainly in the move-up price-point categories. The first-time home-buyer category remains very weak. Selling prices of new homes continued on a steady upward trend due to rising costs (labor and materials) and low inventory in desirable areas. One builder noted that he has seen three price increases in the past year. Builders are confident that demand for new homes will persist, and sales should pick up after the first of the year. Nonresidential builders reported an overall pick up in business. Smaller projects are filling the pipeline at this time, while very large projects are few in number. With respect to the latter, uncertainty about the strength of the economy and fiscal issues are keeping investors from moving forward. Most of our contacts indicated that they are comfortable with the number of inquiries they receive and their backlogs. However, several builders emphasized that clients are only closing on projects that are viewed as crucial to their businesses. The strongest activity was in manufacturing, distribution, shale gas, commercial development, and multifamily/affordable housing. Our contacts are cautiously optimistic about near-term prospects but are expecting slow growth at best. Prices for residential construction materials--lumber and drywall--have increased substantially in the past year, but the rate of increase is slowing. General contractors reported moderate hiring in their apartment management divisions, while the hiring of field and back-office personnel was more limited. Many of our contacts noted increases in health-insurance premiums. Builders cited a scarcity of high-skilled trade workers. As a result, there is upward pressure on wages, and subcontractors are demanding and getting higher rates. Consumer SpendingReports on retail purchases during October were mixed. Retailers who saw flat or lower sales relative to September attributed it in part to a weakening in consumer confidence. A full-service food retailer noted a proliferation of dollar stores, which are attracting a rising share of his lower-income customers. Stores seeing increased sales credited a larger product selection and wider use of promotions. Most of our contacts said that year-over-year sales were higher. Products in greater demand included core goods and cold-weather apparel. One of our contacts expects that electronics purchases will pick up once the holiday shopping season gets under way. Projections for the fourth quarter call for flat to moderately higher sales relative to the same time period last year. Inventories were described as being in good shape. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. Some retailers expect to increase capital spending in 2014, mainly for improving e-commerce and distribution systems. Temporary hiring for the holiday shopping season is expected to be flat compared to 2012, though one chain reported that it plans to hire about 10 percent more holiday workers this year. Another retailer reported that it is very difficult to hire the number of temporary workers needed for a regional distribution center. Year-to-date sales through October of new motor vehicles showed a moderate increase when compared to the same time period in 2012. On a month-over-month basis, purchases of new vehicles were slightly lower during October versus September. Although buyers continue to prefer smaller, fuel-efficient vehicles, there was a pickup in sales of crossovers and SUVs. New-vehicle inventories were characterized as very good to a little high. Aggregate unit volume projections for 2013 were mixed. In some regions of the District, our contacts believe that volume will be 10 percent to 12 percent higher year-over-year. In other regions, such as those that are dependent on the coal industry for income, dealers are projecting little change from a year ago. Used-vehicle purchases showed a large increase from September to October. Employment levels rose slightly across dealerships. BankingDemand for business credit grew slightly during the past six weeks. No loan category or industry is performing significantly better than others, although many bankers noted that commercial-real-estate lending has picked up. Downward pressure on commercial-loan pricing was described as moderate to strong. Consumer credit was little changed. Home-equity products and auto lending drew the highest demand. A large regional banker observed that credit-card usage is falling below expectations. Most contacts reported a slowdown in residential mortgage activity, which they attributed to seasonal factors and a rise in interest rates. The shift from refinancings to new-purchase applications continued. For the most part, delinquency rates were stable or declining. No changes to loan-application standards were reported. Core deposits by businesses and consumers grew. On balance, banking payrolls were flat. EnergyAggregate coal output across the District remains below year-ago levels. A large production decline in eastern Kentucky is being partially offset by modest increases in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and northern West Virginia. Going forward, little change in output is projected. Spot prices for steam and metallurgical coal have declined since our last report. There has been little change in the number of drilling rigs across the District since the beginning of August. However, production from the wet-gas regions of the Marcellus and Utica shales has grown significantly in the third quarter of 2013, when compared to the second quarter. Higher production was attributed to the completion of pipeline connections and the startup of gas- processing plants. We heard one report about plans to construct six additional wet-gas processing plants in the state of West Virginia. Well-head prices for natural gas remain at low levels, with some volatility seen in oil prices. Coal operators and oil and gas producers reported that capital outlays were at targeted levels. Some oil and gas companies plan to increase spending in the first quarter of 2014 for land acquisition and drilling. Production-equipment and material costs were stable. Payrolls and wages held steady. Freight TransportationFreight executives reported that the slowing in the rate of revenue growth that began early in the third quarter has continued. However, year-to-date shipping volume is higher when compared to the same period in 2012. The industry outlook is favorable, with volume expected to grow at a slow, but steady pace. Operating costs were stable. A few contacts noted that they have successfully negotiated rate increases, although increases fell below desired levels. Capital outlays for new tractors were somewhat higher than planned for the current fiscal year due to capacity expansion or OEM price incentives. The industry has been actively hiring for replacement and to a lesser degree, adding capacity. Return to top ManufacturingManufacturing strengthened since our last report. Shipments and new orders had a sizable increase according to our survey respondents. A lumber contact located in North Carolina stated that inventories of raw materials and finished goods are being managed at correct levels and that 2013 appears to be headed for a good profit year. He further expects continued improvement in new home building. A manufacturer of airflow measurement devices stated that his sales volume was up two to three percent year to date, despite short-term volatility. A fabric manufacturing company in North Carolina also reported a recent upturn in business, but noted that costs had increased. According to the latest manufacturing survey, prices of raw materials and finished goods rose more slowly compared to last month. PortsPort activity continued to be robust. Larger ports saw strong container traffic; an official at a major District port noted that exports of containerized grain have been growing every quarter and that housing-related imports such as flooring were up year over year. Coal exports rose during the last month at one port, but were nearly flat for the year so far, while declining elsewhere. Food and beverage imports were strong, and both imports and exports of products such as apparel, toys, and electronics grew "at a good clip." In the last several weeks, import and export traffic of autos and auto parts remained strong overall. According to our contact at a mid-sized port, container traffic was steady. † RetailRetail sales were moderately stronger at most establishments in recent weeks, particularly for big-ticket items such as furniture and appliances. However, executives at a few department stores reported little change in sales or foot traffic. A department store executive in West Virginia remarked that he was "being squeezed" by internet competitors. Compared to a year ago, retailers generally expected little growth in holiday sales and sales of gift cards. In contrast, a manager at a chain discounter commented that current sales were lackluster, but lay-away at the store was very busy. Most retail contacts said their holiday inventory levels were about the same as a year ago. Merchants were split on whether they would have more promotions and discounting than last year. Auto sales remained solid, although a few dealers noted some slowing. Average retail prices rose more slowly since our last report. ServicesReports from non-retail services firms were mixed. Telecommunications firms reported growth, with a North Carolina source commenting in particular on growth in server farms. A financial services executive commented that his clients were cautiously moving forward with investments, but that they remained hesitant. An executive at a national trucking firm reported that business was consistent with no changes in pricing or capital expenditures. However, construction-related businesses, such as HVAC, reported flat revenues in recent weeks and several restaurant executives indicated that sales were down. Prices in the service sector rose at a slower pace. Tourism reports also varied, with some hoteliers reporting cancellation of large government bookings. An executive at a resort and conference hotel in central Virginia remarked that he can no longer count on group clients booking multi-year contracts for regular conferences because of the firms' budget uncertainty over healthcare costs. In contrast, a resort executive in western Virginia reported that colder weather expectations have raised ski bookings compared to recent years, and weather conditions have allowed snow-making at Thanksgiving. The strength in bookings has allowed the resort to raise some rates for the first time in several years. A contact on the outer banks of North Carolina also reported strong house rentals and hotel bookings for Thanksgiving; several hotels there offered Black Friday specials. FinanceConsumer borrowing weakened slightly throughout the district since our last report. Several sources indicated that residential mortgage lending has declined in response to higher rates and tighter restrictions from the Qualified Mortgage rule. Further, a banker stated that consumers are reluctant to apply due to their perception that loans are becoming more difficult to obtain. Competition among bankers has risen, with lenders offering incentives such as including closing costs. Also, the consensus felt that the credit quality of applicants has slipped mildly as "stronger applicants are drying up." On a positive note, one central Virginia lender reported seeing an uptick in new construction loans. In addition, all sources reported that delinquency rates have improved. Commercial lending competition increased, leading to some easing in credit quality standards. Rates have remained flat, and lenders reported that businesses are increasingly interested in buying the buildings they are leasing. Real EstateResidential real estate markets slowed slightly in the past month. Realtors reported a slight increase in sale prices. A Realtor from South Carolina reported an upward trend in sales of entry level homes, and a slow-down in sales of mid- to upper-level homes in the past few weeks. On the other hand, a Northern Virginia Realtor reported a slight decrease in sale prices and thinks there could be another small decrease in the next few weeks. Average days on the market were generally unchanged from last month, although both South Carolina and North Carolina contacts reported a slight increase due to reduced buyer traffic. In contrast, a real estate broker located in Charlotte said relocation referrals were up in the last four to six weeks, and an agent in Greensboro stated that buyers in his region are feeling more confident and that there is a shift towards a more balanced market. Home inventory throughout the District is tight, although a central North Carolina real estate agent told us the supply of town homes and condos is adequate in his region. New construction changed little from a month ago. Commercial real estate markets have remained stable throughout the District, with continued strength in multi-family construction. A broker in Richmond reported that commercial development in multi-family housing continues to be strong both in new construction and rehab of older buildings. Construction activity generally flattened in the Carolinas and West Virginia. Another Richmond agent reported new construction in retail, anchored around large stores and food retailers, with some pickup in residential development. A Virginia Beach Realtor reported steady construction activity in office and retail. A broker in that area stated that demand is primarily in the small to medium size range except for a couple of big box retailers. Realtors report a slight decline in Class A office space, but availability varied greatly by submarket. A Roanoke, Virginia Realtor reported a shift to Class A space in suburban markets due to the expansion of professional services, and a Realtor from Columbia, South Carolina has seen high demand for Class A space in the central business district. Realtors throughout the district reported that office tenants were downsizing and focusing on space efficiency. A commercial Realtor in Charlotte, North Carolina reported new construction plans in the health industry and suburban office buildings. Commercial leasing remained largely unchanged since the last report, with the exception of a mild pickup in the industrial market. Brokers in central Virginia and Charlotte reported that there was an unusual level of demand for large blocks of industrial space. In addition, a Realtor from Raleigh reported an increase in industrial flex space. Overall, vacancies, sales prices, and rental rates flattened since our last report. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesCrop yields varied since our last report. Corn yields are above the 2012 record and on track for a strong finish this year. Cotton and peanut yields are steady in North Carolina, though below the 2012 record. South Carolina cotton declined moderately from the 2012 record, while peanut yields there were on par with year ago levels. In animal farming, a contact noted that poultry production was declining on the Eastern Shore of Virginia and Maryland due to regulatory changes and water pollution issues. Natural gas production increased in the last four to six weeks, with a seasonal uptick in gas prices. According to a West Virginia contact, natural gas exploration continued to be active with new pipeline being added when needed. He also reported a proposal for a petrochemical complex in the near future. Coal production has decreased slightly. An industry contact stated that current production levels are expected to remain constant. There were reports of possible coal mine closures. Labor MarketsEmployment conditions around the district improved slightly over the last several weeks. According to the manufacturing survey, employment and wages rose somewhat more quickly. Survey results from the retail and service sectors indicated that employment picked up across the board. Wages in the service sector increased marginally while faster growth was reported in average retail wages. A respondent in North Carolina said that hotel operators in the western part of the state were raising wages by 6 to 7 percent for low-skilled workers. A staffing agency executive remarked that it was difficult to find suitable candidates because the "skill level demanded is too high," and that more workers are taking temp-to-permanent positions. Additionally a recruiter in South Carolina stated that while temporary employment orders rose, full time job openings remained depressed. Contacts reported difficulty filling permanent positions in the fields of medical, maritime, construction-related, and information technology. A temp agency in Maryland reported that labor demand is currently targeted towards distribution, heavy manufacturing, and the information technology sector. Seasonal retail hiring has been generally at last year's level, and few contacts expected to retain seasonal hires as permanent employees after the holidays. †Return to top While auto sales remained stable, reports on other components of consumer spending were mixed. The travel and tourism industry was a bright spot for the District as overall activity continued to expand. Residential real estate brokers indicated that growth of existing home sales had slowed, while homebuilders saw sales growth increase over a year ago. Commercial contractors noted that activity increased, albeit at a modest pace. Manufacturers reported mild gains in new orders and production. On balance, bankers noted better loan demand. Wages and input prices continued to increase at a slow and steady pace. Consumer Spending and TourismRetailers cited mixed results from October to mid-November. District retail contacts indicated that economic uncertainty was having an impact on consumer confidence and behavior. Although merchants reported plans to offer robust discounting, beginning even earlier than the traditional Black Friday, retailers' expectations for the upcoming holiday season are only mildly optimistic. Sales of light vehicles were steady. Hospitality firms continued to cite expanding levels of activity in both leisure and business travel. Industry contacts expect a robust holiday season and continue to anticipate strong performance for the first half of 2014. Overall, the industry is forecasting continued growth in business and leisure travel and a healthy influx of international visitors based on reports of advanced bookings. Real Estate and ConstructionDistrict brokers indicated that growth of existing home sales have slowed notably in recent months. The majority of brokers said sales were flat to slightly up compared with a year earlier but were below their plan for the period. Most brokers indicated that the government shutdown had an impact on their business, including confusion about the availability of government insured mortgages, delays in processing loans, and reduced consumer confidence. By most accounts, inventory levels continued to decline on a year-over-year basis. Home prices remained ahead of the year earlier level but price gains seemed to be slowing. The outlook among brokers has waned since our last report. Most anticipate that sales will be flat to slightly up on a year-over-year basis over the next several months. District builders indicated that recent activity was in line with their plan for the period. The majority of builders noted that new home sales and construction were ahead of the year earlier level. However, similar to broker reports, homebuilders noted that the government shutdown impacted their business, as well. Reports on unsold inventory were mixed while modest home price appreciation continued to be noted. The outlook for new home sales and construction remained slightly positive. District commercial brokers noted that demand for space continued to improve modestly. Construction activity slightly increased as well, from earlier in the year. Most contractors said that activity in the third-quarter was ahead of the year-ago level. New build-to-suit projects continued to break ground across the region while landlords also updated space to make it attractive for tenants to rent. Once again, brokers indicated that most markets still favored tenants; however, rental rate increases continued to be noted in select submarkets. The outlook among District commercial real estate contacts remained positive with further improvements expected early next year. Manufacturing and TransportationDistrict manufacturers reported gains in new orders, production, and employment in October compared with the previous month. An increasing number of contacts cited higher than desired finished inventory levels and that commodity prices continued to rise, albeit at a modest rate. Manufacturers also noted a mild decrease in supplier delivery times. Although overall production increased, expectations for production have fallen with approximately one-quarter of manufacturing contacts expecting production to increase over the next three-to-six months, compared with one-third from our previous report. Railroad contacts continued to cite significant increases in shipments of petroleum products and nonferrous scrap metals, as well as metallurgical coal; however, rail traffic year-to-date is up only slightly. District port contacts reported record levels of container shipments, bulk cargos, and truck and intermodal freight. Trucking tonnage continued to increase year-over-year from heavier freight loads of energy products, housing construction materials, and autos. Contacts cited significant investment in the production of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) for use in the transportation sector. A majority of regional transportation contacts indicated that their customers' do not expect to meet their holiday season volume expectations, although some logistics firms have forecast record volumes due to online sales. Banking and FinanceBanking contacts reported better overall lending activity, relative to our previous report, although loan demand in rural areas remained low. Commercial real estate lending increased as property values rose; commercial and industrial and auto lending was strong. Mortgage lending and refinancing activity slowed as mortgage interest rates increased. Deposit levels were high at most institutions and banks continued to competitively seek out quality-loan customers. Some banks loosened underwriting standards and reduced margins to attract new loan business. Employment and PricesOn balance, contacts across the private sector reported that the government shutdown had little-to-no direct impact on employment, but has negatively affected business confidence, which could translate into delayed hiring decisions in the present or near term. Contacts continued to cite that companies looking to hire expressed concern that their inability to find qualified labor is inhibiting business expansion. Overall, firms experiencing any growth in demand for their products expressed no plans to hire in the near term. Contacts continued to report stable pricing with no major concerns about inflation. Isolated reports of cost increases, for example in fast food, grocery stores, and construction, were generally passed through successfully to customers. Year-ahead unit cost expectations were unchanged at 1.9 percent, according to the Atlanta Fed's survey on business inflation expectations. Overall, profit margins were tight across most industries. Aside from scattered reports of upward pressure on wages for high-skilled workers, increases remained stable (mostly in the 2-3 percent range) across most industries. Natural Resources and AgricultureEnergy contacts continued to cite infrastructure expansion and high-capacity utilization. Rail investment has provided much needed relief to the liquids transportation bottleneck issues that arose with the increasing production from shale resources. Overall, contacts remain largely optimistic about future demand, productivity, and pricing for the industry. Drought conditions in Mississippi and Louisiana eased while other areas in the District continued to experience abnormally dry conditions. Since the previous cycle, monthly prices paid to farmers for cotton, rice, and oranges increased while prices for corn, soybeans, beef, hogs, and poultry decreased. The most recent crop production projections for corn and soybeans were up from last year while cotton, rice, and orange projections were down. Contacts reported making investments in irrigation equipment, storage augmentation, and replacing smaller equipment with larger, more modern units as ways to improve production and/or contain costs. † † Return to top Consumer spendingConsumer spending growth remained modest in October and early November. Auto sales in the District slowed during the government shutdown, but subsequently picked up in late October and November. Contacts noted that lower gas prices were causing sales to shift away from fuel-efficient vehicles. Non-auto retailers reported typical sales levels during the lull between the back-to-school and holiday seasons. Sales of electronics were up, while grocery sales were flat, and apparel sales declined. District retailers are anticipating moderate growth in sales during the holiday season, but with gains somewhat below those expected at the national level. Business spendingBusiness spending grew at a modest pace in October and early November. Inventories were at comfortable levels for most retailers and manufacturers. A number of auto dealers reported that inventories were slightly higher than normal, but that this was an intentional buildup in anticipation of increased demand from buyers looking to lock in low interest rates. In contrast, steel service center inventories remained low. Growth in capital spending was up only slightly; but spending plans for the next six to twelve months increased, particularly in the manufacturing and finance sectors. Contacts reported investing in structures, equipment, information technology, and vehicles. In general, the pace of hiring edged down again and expectations for future hiring dropped. One staffing firm, however, reported an increase in billable hours, particularly in manufacturing. Many contacts noted continuing strong demand for skilled and experienced workers. Part-time seasonal hiring for the holidays was slightly lower than normal, with retailers choosing to increase hours instead of hiring new workers. Construction/real estateConstruction and real estate activity increased moderately over the reporting period. Overall demand for residential construction grew slightly, although remodeling activity slowed considerably. Multifamily construction experienced moderate growth with strength concentrated in the apartment sector. In residential real estate markets, home sales, prices, and rents continued to rise, though at a slower rate than earlier in the year. Inventories of homes for sale stayed near record lows, but contacts expected them to rise as increasing house prices induce more people to list their homes. Nonresidential construction grew modestly, with contacts noting an improvement in the outlook for industrial building and hotels. Commercial real estate activity continued to expand as retail leasing picked up, though a large fraction of deals contained relatively short-term contracts. ManufacturingGrowth in manufacturing production remained moderate. The auto and aerospace industries were again a source of strength for the District. A large number of new vehicle launches pushed auto production and capacity utilization higher. Steel production fell slightly even though imports were down and net demand from service centers picked up. Specialty metal manufacturers reported slight declines in new orders and backlogs, and were worried that demand would be weak toward the end of the year. Demand for heavy equipment remained soft as sales of farm and mining equipment declined. Rental companies, however, continued to make large investments, as many users prefer to rent rather than purchase equipment given the uncertain business environment. Demand for heavy- and medium- duty trucks was up in response to the improving housing market and the pull-forward of sales in anticipation of new EPA standards in 2014 that will raise the cost of trucks. Manufacturers of construction materials saw a slight increase in demand and expected moderate growth in the coming year. In general, manufacturing contacts remained somewhat optimistic for 2014. Nonetheless, they still expected heightened uncertainty--exacerbated by worries about rising healthcare costs and fiscal policy gridlock in Washington D.C.--to continue to dampen demand. Banking/financeCredit conditions changed little on balance over the reporting period. Volatility decreased significantly across several asset classes and equity markets saw significant improvements. With rising benchmark rates, contacts noted slight declines in spreads for corporate borrowers, especially in the high-yield debt market. Banking contacts noted a leveling off in the gradual uptrend in asset quality. Demand for commercial and industrial loans remained relatively unchanged. Competition among lenders increased for the limited number of opportunities, putting modest pressure on prices and structures. Contacts also noted an increase in commercial real estate development activity. Residential mortgage activity declined as the increase in borrowing rates resulted in fewer homeowners refinancing mortgages. In contrast, contacts noted increased consumer borrowing, particularly for purchasing and refinancing autos. Prices/costsCost pressures changed little since the last report. Overall, commodity prices were up slightly. Steel, scrap, lumber, and gypsum prices rose, iron ore prices were flat, and coal and gasoline prices were lower. Retailers noted that heavy promotional activity is being planned for this holiday season. Wage pressures were up slightly. Non-wage labor costs were steady, though a number of contacts reported higher health insurance premiums because of regulatory changes in the Affordable Care Act. AgricultureHarvesting took longer this fall than a year ago given the larger size of the crop and delays from precipitation. Crop yields remained higher than expected across the District, even in areas that experienced yield losses from drought. In general, farmers tended to sell soybeans and store corn. Pastures and winter wheat fields were in better shape than they were last year. Crop prices fell over the reporting period, though higher exports of corn, soybeans, and wheat cushioned the decline. Lower fertilizer prices relieved some concerns about 2014 crop production costs. Milk and cattle prices were a bit higher; hog prices fell, although they remained above the level of a year ago. The prospects for livestock producers improved due to reduced feed costs. Return to top Consumer SpendingContacts reported that retail sales in September and October were up, on average, compared with the same period last year. About two thirds of contacts noted increases in sales, while one third noted decreases. Some contacts noted fewer sales from low-income shoppers, and some contacts noted increases in lower-end product sales. Contacts also noted that new store openings and renovations outnumbered store closings over the past three months. Most contacts expect holiday sales to increase compared with last year, and many have hired more seasonal employees than last year in anticipation of increased sales. Reports from auto dealers were generally positive. The majority of contacts reported increased sales in September and October compared with the same period last year. Sixty percent of contacts reported that inventories were at desired levels, while one third reported that inventories were too low. One third of contacts reported increases in used car sales relative to new car sales, while 25 percent reported the opposite. Forty-two percent of contacts reported increases in high-end vehicle sales, while 17 percent reported increases in low-end vehicle sales. A number of contacts cited increased sales of small sport utility vehicles, crossover utility vehicles, and medium duty trucks. Most contacts expect increased sales in November and December relative to last year. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityReports of plans for manufacturing have been positive since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities in the District, while a smaller number of manufacturers reported plans to reduce employment. Firms that manufacture food, automobiles, wind turbines, toys, steel flanges, pet food, machinery, and nitric acid plan to hire new employees and expand operations in the near future. In contrast, firms that manufacture auto parts, lead, bottle tops, paper and packaging products, and construction materials reported plans to lay off workers. Manufacturing contacts noted more inquiries and new orders in the most recent quarter, compared with the same period last year. Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have also been positive since the previous report. Firms in courier and express delivery services, health care benefit management, distribution, logistics, retail trade, business, telecommunication, information technology, and recreation services reported new hiring (including seasonal hiring) and expansion plans in the District. In contrast, firms in health care, transportation, and financial services announced plans to reduce employment. Real Estate and ConstructionHome sales have continued to increase throughout most of the District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, October 2013 year-to-date home sales were up 17 percent in Louisville, 20 percent in Little Rock, 9 percent in Memphis, and 7 percent in St.†Louis. Residential construction also improved in many areas of the District. Contacts reported residential developments in downtown Little Rock and active housing starts in the Memphis-area suburbs. In contrast, a contact in Louisville reported that new residential construction is not recovering as fast as housing demand. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have continued to improve in some areas of the District. A contact in Memphis reported that commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have improved, a contact in St.†Louis reported that sales activity in the industrial market increased, and a contact in Louisville reported that the industrial real estate market in southern Indiana has improved. In contrast, a contact in Little Rock reported that the industrial market has been a "sleepy sector," while a contact in Louisville noted that there was no office leasing activity in the third quarter but expected it to pick up in the fourth quarter. Banking and FinanceA survey of District banks found little change in overall lending activity during the third quarter of 2013. During this period, credit standards and creditworthiness of applicants for commercial and industrial loans remained mostly unchanged, while demand for these loans was slightly weaker and delinquencies decreased moderately. Credit standards and credit worthiness of applicants for prime residential mortgage loans remained mostly unchanged; demand was moderately weaker overall, with some respondents reporting substantial weakness; and delinquencies saw a slight decrease. Credit standards and creditworthiness of applicants for auto loans and credit cards remained mostly unchanged, while demand decreased moderately and delinquencies edged down slightly. Credit standards, creditworthiness of applicants, and demand for other consumer loans remained mostly unchanged, while delinquencies edged down slightly. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAs of mid-November, over 90 percent of the District corn, sorghum, and rice crops had been harvested, while harvest progress of the District cotton and soybean crops was 81 and 89 percent complete, respectively. Winter wheat planting was 87 percent complete, on average, across the District. Year-to-date coal production in the District for October was 3.7 percent higher compared with the same period in 2012. Coal production for October 2013 was 11.1 percent greater than in October 2012. Prices, Wages, and EmploymentSixty-one percent of contacts indicated that prices charged to consumers over the past three months have stayed the same, while 25 percent indicated that prices have increased relative to the same period last year. In turn, 44 percent of contacts noted that wages over the past three months have stayed the same, while 52 percent noted that wages have increased. Meanwhile, 61 percent of contacts reported that employment levels have remained the same over the past three months compared with the same period last year, while 28 percent reported that employment levels have increased. † Return to top Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending increased modestly. Two Minnesota-based retailers reported slight gains in same-store sales compared with a year earlier. Recent sales were down slightly from a year ago at a Montana mall after strong growth in 2012; store managers were cautiously optimistic for the holiday season. A Minnesota-based restaurant chain recently reported that same-store sales decreased slightly. However, respondents to a survey of holiday shoppers in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area by the University of St. Thomas indicated that spending per household will increase by about 8 percent over last year. An auto dealer in Minnesota reported strong vehicle sales during early November. Tourism activity was up from a year ago. A representative of a Minnesota-based travel agency noted that recent bookings for leisure travel during the next few months were up more than 10 percent. October airline boardings at North Dakota's eight largest airports increased 13 percent compared with a year earlier. However, October visits to Glacier National Park were down about 50 percent compared with last year due to the government shutdown. Construction and Real EstateCommercial construction activity continued to grow since the last report. A recent survey of Minnesota building professionals conducted by a trade association noted an improvement in market conditions. More than half of construction respondents to a late-October Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey reported that they expected to increase capital expenditures in 2014 compared with 2013; the remainder expected level spending. However, in Sioux Falls, S.D., and Billings, Mont., the value of October commercial permits decreased from a year ago. Residential construction activity increased. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of October residential permits grew by 20 percent from October 2012 to $195 million. However, the value of October residential building permits in Sioux Falls and Billings fell from 2012. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. The University of St. Thomas semiannual survey (November) of 50 Minneapolis-St. Paul commercial real estate leaders noted higher rent, occupancy, land prices and building material costs. A large real estate consulting firm reported that demand continues to outpace new building of industrial space, while vacancy rates are expected to continue to decline. Residential real estate markets experienced slight growth since the last report. In the Sioux Falls area, October home sales were up 9 percent, inventory was down 4 percent and the median sale price increased 4 percent relative to a year earlier. Meanwhile, October home sales were down 2 percent from the same period a year ago in Minnesota; the inventory of homes for sale increased by 7 percent, and the median sale price rose 12 percent. In La Crosse, Wis., October home sales and the median price declined from October 2012. ServicesRecent activity at professional business services firms increased since the last report. In the aforementioned survey of building professionals, 53 percent of engineers and architects reported improving conditions compared with 11 percent who saw declines. A Minnesota business consulting firm said that demand has picked up recently, particularly since the end of the government shutdown. A web technology firm noted that demand was strong and that profit margins were good. An environmental engineering firm expected its business to continue to grow. Recent corporate travel was up from last year, according to a Minnesota-based travel agency. ManufacturingThe manufacturing sector saw continued moderate growth since the last report. An October survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) indicated that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas. Preliminary results from the Minneapolis Fed's 2013 survey of manufacturers indicated that respondents on average expect orders, production, employment, investment and profits at their operations to increase in the coming year. A furniture maker began a major expansion at a Wisconsin plant. A producer of agricultural material handling equipment announced an expansion of a South Dakota facility. However, several producers of agricultural equipment noted a reduction in new orders. Energy and MiningActivity in the energy sector increased moderately, while mining was steady at a high level. Late-October oil and gas exploration activity was flat in North Dakota and fell slightly in Montana from a month earlier. Production remained at record levels. Construction of a refinery began on an Indian reservation in North Dakota. Regulators approved construction of a large wind farm in North Dakota. October production at District iron ore facilities was up slightly from a year earlier. Activity at Montana precious metals mines was solid; a new gold mining operation was planned at one site, while another operation sought to extend its permit. AgricultureThe agriculture sector saw slight contraction. In the Minneapolis Fed's third quarter (October) survey of agricultural credit conditions, 28 percent of lenders reported that farm incomes decreased from the second quarter, while 15 percent reported increases; nearly half expect incomes to decrease in the final three months of 2013. October prices received by farmers decreased from a year earlier for wheat, corn, soybeans, milk, eggs, turkeys and cattle; prices increased for chickens, calves, hogs and dry beans. An early-October blizzard in western South Dakota killed an estimated 15,000 cattle there. Drought conditions abated in most of the District in late fall. Employment, Wages and PricesLabor markets continued to tighten slightly since the last report. According to respondents to a Minnesota construction industry survey, 38 percent expect to expand staffing levels in 2014, while 12 percent expect layoffs; last year, 31 percent expected to hire more workers, while 18 percent expected layoffs. In Minnesota, a countertop manufacturer plans to hire more than 100 employees over the next six months and a food manufacturer had more than 30 positions open. A South Dakota manufacturer recently announced plans to add up to 20 more workers. However, a Minnesota-based retailer recently laid off about 150 corporate employees as part of a restructuring plan, while a paint company in Minnesota laid off 25 employees. Overall wage increases were moderate. According to preliminary results of the aforementioned survey of manufacturers, respondents expect to increase wages by 2.2 percent in 2014. However, an eastern Montana contact reported that salaries there have increased at a faster pace for mechanics, truckers and information technology workers. Prices generally remained stable with some exceptions noted. Mid-November Minnesota gasoline prices were down more than 20 cents per gallon compared with early October. Several metals prices decreased over the past month. Home heating costs for natural gas are expected to increase almost 15 percent compared with last winter. Return to top Consumer SpendingConsumer spending increased modestly from the previous period, and contacts were cautiously optimistic heading into the holiday season. Retail sales edged higher from the previous survey and were up considerably from a year ago. Several retailers noted strong sales of sportswear and appliances. Expectations for future sales rose, and store inventories increased moderately. Auto sales were flat in November, and future sales were expected to remain unchanged. Contacts said sales were strongest for small SUVs and pickup trucks, while sales of large, full-size vehicles remained weak. Auto inventories increased, although many dealers expected levels to stabilize somewhat in the next three months. Restaurant sales edged down, but activity remained similar to last year. Many contacts noted an increase in food costs and uncertainty about the future expense of employee health care. Tourist activity remained sluggish, although occupancy rates improved at a few hotels. Tourism contacts were slightly less optimistic about future activity.† Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityDistrict manufacturing activity continued to grow at a moderate pace in November. Production at durable goods-producing plants grew more slowly than in the previous survey, but production of nondurable goods products picked up, particularly for chemicals and plastics. Employment conditions improved, with several respondents indicating plans to hire more skilled workers. Manufacturers' capital spending plans remained solid, and overall expectations for future activity increased from the previous survey period. Transportation activity edged higher, and several firms reported strong shipments of perishable food products. Expectations for future transportation activity improved slightly from the previous survey, while capital spending plans were mostly unchanged. Sales growth among high-tech firms moderated somewhat but was positive overall, with several firms citing a reduction in government contracts due to sequestration and the government shutdown. However, expectations for future high-tech activity increased, and capital spending plans were generally favorable. Real Estate and ConstructionResidential real estate activity slowed somewhat but remained stronger than last year, while commercial real estate conditions strengthened slightly. Housing starts were flat since the previous survey, although activity was still higher than a year ago. Expectations for future homebuilding remained upbeat, but a few builders noted difficulties finding qualified workers. Sales at construction supply firms rose and many firms were optimistic about future activity. Home sales slowed in November, though activity remained slightly better than last year and inventory levels decreased. Some contacts attributed the slowdown to inventory shortages and the upcoming implementation of new qualified mortgage standards. Residential realtors noted positive sales of low to mid-range properties, but said higher priced homes over $400,000 sold poorly. Expectations for future home sales eased slightly, but prices were generally rising and expected to increase further. Mortgage lending activity remained weak, as both home purchase and refinancing loans slowed further. Commercial real estate activity grew modestly, and contacts were increasingly optimistic heading forward. Vacancy rates edged down, and absorption rates rose in some cities. Office prices and rents increased at a slower rate than the previous survey, although further increases were anticipated in coming months. BankingBankers reported steady overall loan demand, improved loan quality, and stable deposit levels in November. Respondents reported increased demand for commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans, and steady demand for consumer installment loans. Demand for residential real estate loans declined during the survey period. Bankers reported improved loan quality compared to a year ago, and nearly all bankers expected the outlook for loan quality to either improve or remain the same over the next six months. Credit standards remained unchanged in all major loan categories, and respondents reported stable deposits. EnergyEnergy activity remained solid in November. Oil rigs increased slightly in the District, particularly in Wyoming, while natural gas rigs held steady. Natural gas prices remained low, although several contacts expected higher prices in coming months due to the expected colder winter. Crude oil prices moderated slightly from the previous survey, but remained generally strong. Several contacts noted increasing U.S. supply, lower global demand, and easing sanctions in Iran could constrain oil prices heading forward, although most producers expected prices to remain high enough to spur further drilling in the months ahead.† AgricultureA steep drop in crop prices, which partly reflected better-than-expected corn and soybean yields, lowered District farm income and boosted demand for farm operating loans since the last survey period. Some livestock operators in Western Nebraska also faced significant herd losses due to a severe October snowstorm. Farm income was expected to remain weaker than last year despite some support from crop insurance and a gradual improvement in livestock sector profitability resulting from lower feed costs. With reduced incomes, agricultural bankers reported the number of requests for loan renewals and extensions edged up and demand for new farm operating loans also increased. Farmland values rose further, but the pace of gains moderated and most contacts expected values would hold steady through the end of the year. Wages and PricesPrices rose modestly in most industries, and wage pressures were largely contained outside of a few skilled positions. Retail prices remained flat and were anticipated to be generally steady heading forward. Prices of manufacturing materials grew slower than in the previous period, and fewer firms planned on raising selling prices. Transportation firms reported slightly higher input prices, and restaurants noted rising food costs and menu prices. Construction materials prices moved higher, particularly for concrete and drywall, and selling prices increased at most supply firms. Many contacts noted concerns about future costs from new health care and other types of regulations. Wage pressures increased slightly but were still generally contained in most industries. Some firms reported continued difficulties in obtaining skilled labor, such as truck drivers, construction workers, and machinists. Return to top PricesResponding firms said prices were stable to up slightly over the reporting period. Some manufacturers noted price increases in primary and fabricated metal and food products. Price reports from retailers were mixed. One retail contact increased prices very modestly. Another firm reduced selling prices somewhat in an effort to bring holiday demand forward due to the short season this year. Automobile prices were stable. Home prices remained elevated and contacts in the apartment industry said rents continued to rise at a strong pace. Airline contacts noted moderately lower fuel prices, but said fees continued to increase. One airline respondent said ticket prices were trending up. Agricultural contacts reported that cattle prices hit record highs. Changes in energy prices were mixed; the price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil declined somewhat, while natural gas prices moved up slightly from the last reporting period. Gasoline and diesel prices fell modestly. The price of natural gas liquids, a feedstock for many chemicals, increased over the past six weeks. Labor MarketEmployment levels were steady to up slightly at responding firms. Retailers said employment was up since the previous report. One retail firm was hiring in line with expanding operations, and another said payrolls were rising due to holiday hiring, which was stronger than last year's hiring. Fabricated metals producers added employees, and contacts noted some pressure on wages. Food producers were hiring, partly due to turnover. Refining and petrochemical contacts reported extreme difficulty finding engineers and construction laborers for current and proposed facility expansions, and noted a continued rise in wages. Homebuilders also noted a shortage of construction workers and said labor costs were rising. There were additional scattered reports of wage pressures. High-tech producers noted wage pressures for workers with certain high-demand skills such as electrical engineering.†Accounting firms were actively seeking high-skilled workers, with some higher wages being offered. ManufacturingProducers of construction-related products said demand was mostly stable to up slightly. A lumber producer said that while demand increased in October, it had weakened in the past two weeks. Firms noted this year did not meet expectations but were positive in their outlooks for 2014. Fabricated metals producers said demand continued to rise at a strong pace and the outlook for sales was highly positive. Most primary metals contacts said demand was steady, ignoring seasonal effects, and outlooks for 2014 were somewhat more optimistic. Demand increased for food producers, while paper industry responses were mixed, with some contacts noting better than expected sales and some not meeting demand expectations. High-tech manufacturers said demand was flat to modestly weaker over the past six weeks. Industrial sector orders for semiconductors weakened, although overall the sector remained one of the largest drivers of growth. Demand for memory chips continued to improve while orders for logic devices continued to soften. Respondents expect a gradual increase in demand over the next three to six months.† Chemical production in the Gulf Coast grew in aggregate over the past six weeks, but at a slower pace than earlier in the year. Refinery utilization rates softened seasonally with the onset of the fall maintenance season. The change to winter fuel standards is pulling down prices, but refiner's margins remain healthy. Retail SalesRetail sales were up during the reporting period, and year-over-year demand growth remained in the low-to mid-single digits. One national retailer reported that Texas continued to outperform the nation. Strength was noted in luxury goods, and inventories were at desired levels. Outlooks for the rest of the year were positive. Automobile sales were down slightly this reporting period, which contacts attributed to lack of consumer confidence and continued uncertainty. Inventory reports varied by manufacturer, with a few contacts noting inventories were higher than desired. Contacts' outlooks for the remainder of the year were optimistic, and they expect 2014 to be better than 2013. Nonfinancial ServicesStaffing firms said demand was generally flat. One firm noted better retail demand than usual this time of year and another noted shortages in nursing and aerospace engineers. Demand was down more than expected for call center hires and for workers at warehousing and distribution companies. Most contacts noted improved 2014 outlooks. Accounting firms said demand remained strong with seasonal increases over the past six weeks. Business relocations to Texas fueled demand, and outlooks remained positive. Legal firms noted a slight improvement in demand during the reporting period, in part due to seasonal factors. Intellectual property litigation continued to increase and real estate transactions were slightly higher. Outlooks were somewhat more optimistic. Transportation service firms said cargo demand was mixed. Intermodal transportation firms and small parcel shipping firms noted flat cargo volume over the past six weeks, although retail trade and e-commerce remained drivers of growth. Railroad contacts said U.S. cargo volumes grew strongly during the reporting period and noted chemicals shipments were robust. Air cargo volumes decreased somewhat and were down from a year ago.†† Airline reports were mixed. One contact noted that demand increased slightly in the past six weeks, somewhat due to seasonal factors but also to the end of the partial government shutdown. Another respondent said demand was softer since the shutdown. With the exception of concerns about the impact of a pending second round of sequestration in early 2014, outlooks were positive. Construction and Real EstateThe Eleventh District housing sector softened during the reporting period. Contacts said the slowdown was partly due to seasonal factors. However, last year at this time there was no seasonal slowdown, thus contacts were somewhat cautious. Some of the weakening in sales and traffic was attributed to recent large increases in new and existing home prices. One homebuilding contact said the lull will give builders a chance to catch their breath. There is still very little inventory of new homes and most are already sold, and the forecast for single-family construction activity is positive. Despite the slowdown, contacts were optimistic in their outlooks. Apartment demand was mostly unchanged from the last report. Most major Texas markets were seeing sizable demand that is outpacing completions, yielding occupancy and rent growth well above the long-term norm. Commercial real estate respondents said tenant demand remained at a steady pace for industrial and office space. A Dallas contact said construction of office, industrial and retail space was picking up. A contact noted Houston may be close to having too much office development in the works.†Overall, the outlook remained generally positive. Financial ServicesLoan demand softened across most lines of business in the past six weeks, according to financial contacts. Mortgages and auto lending remained relatively level, and refinancing continued to decline. Loan quality continued to modestly improve, and loan pricing remained very aggressive amid increasing loan supply. Deposit volumes increased moderately with no change in deposit rates. Most contacts were hopeful that loan demand will improve, but no changes are expected for the remainder of the year. EnergyDemand for oil-field services was steady despite the slight decline in the rig count as the number of wells drilled per rig continued to improve. Activity in Texas was particularly strong, both inland and offshore, according to respondents. Oil and gas extraction firms expect further growth in 2014. AgricultureDrought conditions continued to ease, although the Texas panhandle area remained particularly dry. Corn and sorghum production was higher, while cotton production was down. The livestock sector continued to benefit from improved pasture conditions, lower feed costs, and high selling prices for cattle. Return to top Prices and WagesPrice pressures were limited for most final goods and services. Among food products, contacts noted relatively large price gains for pork and shrimp but sustained price decreases for beef. In line with the rapid expansion of the cloud computing segment of the technology industry, contacts perceived strong downward pressure on prices for cloud-related services. Legal fees were mostly flat. Prices of some construction inputs, including insulation, wood, and roofing materials, continued to increase rapidly but remained at relatively low levels. Most contacts indicated that they expect prices at their firms to be the same or higher in 2014 compared with 2013. Upward wage pressures remained modest overall. However, contacts from various industries noted above-average wage growth for certain highly skilled workers. Overall wage growth in the technology sector was strong, particularly for software developers. Contacts in California's restaurant industry projected higher labor costs as the state's minimum wage increases take hold over the next few years. Retail Trade and ServicesRetail sales were a bit soft. Most contacts indicated that they expect this year's holiday sales to be about the same or a bit higher relative to last year. Contacts pointed to slow sales of certain electronic items including televisions, personal computers, servers, and digital cameras. Demand for information technology (IT) security and cloud computing software was notably strong. Retail grocers noted the possibility of aggressive and earlier-than-usual promotions during the holiday season. Department store contacts observed a trend of robust online sales and soft in-store sales. Auto sales remained at a high level, although contacts noted that the market for high-mileage used vehicles slowed. Demand for business and consumer services was mixed. Reports from the technology industry indicated robust demand for IT services. Restaurant industry contacts again experienced weaker same-store sales in the quick-service and casual dining segments of the industry, and they do not expect sales to pick up in the near term. Travel and tourism activity in Hawaii maintained its solid pace of growth. Activity remained relatively weak in the Las Vegas tourism industry, and contacts pointed to a moderate year-over-year decline in automobile traffic in the region. Manufacturing†District manufacturing activity picked up somewhat during the reporting period of early October through late November. Driven by demand for mobile technology products, business conditions in the semiconductor industry improved. The aerospace industry in the Pacific Northwest remains poised for growth, with a large backlog of orders for commercial aircraft. Providers of pharmaceuticals described innovative product launches as the force underlying ongoing modest growth in the industry. A wood products manufacturer indicated that their capital spending was up in response to stronger demand for final goods. Steel producers reported that overall capacity utilization was mostly stable, noting stronger conditions for manufacturing of automobile and aircraft-related inputs than for nonresidential construction inputs. Agriculture and Resource-related IndustriesOutput in agricultural and resource-related industries expanded on balance. Demand remained strong for most crop and livestock products, although weaker commodity prices caused some contacts to pare back their expectations for production activity in 2014. Water resources were sufficient in most areas. Overall demand for oil products edged down compared with the previous reporting period, and refinery utilization rates--although remaining at historically high levels--declined slightly as well. Year-over-year total refinery inputs and gasoline production activity both increased. Contacts noted increased development of wind and solar energy production facilities. Reports indicated that sales of electricity and gas to businesses increased, and contacts expect growth in industrial activity to persist in the near term. Real Estate and ConstructionDemand for residential real estate expanded on net, and commercial real estate activity improved. Home prices moved up further across the District. However, contacts reported the pace of home sales slowed somewhat in parts of California and dropped off substantially in Idaho. California contacts noted robust sales activity in the market for extremely high-end homes. Residential permit issuance expanded in several regions, an encouraging sign for sustained growth next year. Construction activity appeared to increase on net, but was held back by labor shortages in some areas. Several new large construction projects broke ground in parts of Hawaii, California, Washington, Oregon, and Idaho. Technology firms continued to drive demand for commercial real estate in the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle. High prices for commercial real estate in downtown San Francisco spurred some firms to migrate to more affordable areas of the region. Financial InstitutionsReports from financial institutions suggest that overall loan demand edged up. A few contacts mentioned that asset quality improved and some banks have eased their credit requirements. Contacts indicated that financing for construction projects made up a significant share of overall loan growth in parts of the District. Some slower growing regions experienced tepid growth of business investment that held back the pace of lending. In addition, some contacts noted that an uncertain fiscal policy environment has eroded business confidence and has led to softer demand for credit. Reports continued to highlight ample bank liquidity and substantial competition for high-quality commercial borrowers. In the District's Internet and digital media sectors, mergers and acquisitions activity grew at a steady pace. The pace of initial public offerings normalized after a surge of activity between mid-August and mid-September. Venture capital activity in the third quarter grew in terms of both deal value and volume relative to the second quarter. Private equity financing activity waned.
BloombergJosh TyrangielBloomberg Media CEO Justin Smith¬†recently asked Businessweek editor Josh Tyrangiel to head up an overhaul of Bloomberg TV. Bloomberg TV has never turned a profit, and ratings are so low that they're not even measured. Today, Capital's Alex Weprin reported¬†that¬†Tyrangiel has concluded his evaluation of the network, and he¬†plans to tell people that the current programming is "shit," citing two anonymous sources. We asked Tyrangiel for comment, and he vehemently denied ever having characterized the network that way. He also sent us the email he sent to Weprin: Alex,  I don't know you, but if you care about your body of work you might want to retract of your story "A blunt assessment for Bloomberg TV" since it blatantly and inaccurately reports something I didn't, and wouldn't, say. I would have been glad to refute your context-less one word quote before your story posted had you bothered to call or email, but you didn't. Nor did you reach out to anyone else at Bloomberg. Personally this is a minor annoyance, but your story is an insult to a lot of really hard working, talented people. I encourage you to publish this email, and retract your inaccurate story.  Sincerely,  Josh Tyrangiel There you have it.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon KFC's staff wait for customers at its restaurant in Beijing.NEW YORK/SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Yum Brands Inc's KFC website in China trumpets the slogan "Trust in every bite." That message is part of the company's new "I Commit" campaign intended to reassure customers in its largest market, who have cut back on visits since Chinese media reports a year ago about excessive antibiotic use by a few KFC suppliers. Interviews with Chinese consumers suggest that rather than soothing concerns, the ads are reminding diners about the food safety scare at the fried-chicken chain, which could undermine Yum's mission to revive sales there. A survey conducted in November found nearly 40 percent of respondents were still very concerned about antibiotic use in KFC chickens. Yum, which cut off some of its suppliers after the television report on antibiotics, initially predicted safety fears would quickly fade. But sales at its established restaurants have yet to turn around, and it has pushed back the recovery timeline. Yum spokesman Jonathan Blum said the company had tested the "I Commit" campaign, launched about two weeks ago, and found that it was resonating with consumers. "It's reassuring customers of our quality commitment," Blum said. A lot is at stake for Yum. It is China's largest Western restaurant operator with roughly 4,500 KFC outlets and the company reaps more than half of its overall operating profit there. Yum is hosting its annual investor meeting in New York later on Wednesday and analysts expect executives will be pressed for details on their plan to reignite KFC sales in China in the face of quality concerns, tougher competition and choppy consumer spending. "This team is more energized than ever," KFC China Chief Executive Sam Su told investors at the kickoff of the meeting. "We are down, but we are not out." Despite a decades-long reputation for serving safe food in China, Yum has struggled to restore diners' trust in a country where dangerous contamination scandals are commonplace. Some diners told Reuters that Yum's ads bring back memories of China national television's December 2012 report showing that a few poultry farmers supplying Yum fed excessive levels of antibiotics to their chickens. That report helped spawn several months of double-digit percentage declines in sales at established KFC China restaurants. "This strategy just risks fanning the flames rather than letting people forget about it," said Yu Kaixin, 24, a recent university graduate from Shanghai, while eating a beef burger at McDonald's, which has also taken a hit from the food safety worries. STUBBORN FOOD SAFETY WORRIES The Shanghai Food and Drug Administration investigated the chicken contamination incident. It did not bring a case against Yum China and did not assess a fine. The restaurant operator quickly responded by cutting less-modern farms from its poultry supplier network. Its "I Commit" public relations push features KFC workers, including KFC China CEO Su, who said the chicken in China is the same as what is served at its restaurants around the world. The chain also is investing in social media programs, retraining employees and arranging consumer visits to chicken farms - one of which is featured in an ad. The message is not having the desired effect on Ao Kun, 25, an investment manager from Jiangxi Province. The more KFC promotes its food quality, "the more I go off them," he said while eating a hamburger combo meal at Burger King. "They keep harking on about it again and again. It's not their competitors that are beating them, it's themselves." An online poll of 1,000 Chinese conducted by ConsumerEdge Research during the first three weeks of November found that safety concerns remained prominent. About 39 percent of survey respondents "strongly agreed" that they were concerned about antibiotics in KFC chicken, while 33 percent said the same about bird flu and KFC chicken. Yum's sales, which fell sharply in late December 2012 after the antibiotic residue media report, took another hit from a bird flu outbreak in China in April. Worries about antibiotics in KFC chicken were strongest among women, low-income diners, people in the 18-to-34 age group, residents of China's largest cities and people who ate at KFC in the month before the survey. "This antibiotic thing is really being stubborn," said Peter Reidhead, the ConsumerEdge analyst who runs the China survey. Yum on Monday said sales at established KFC restaurants in China were flat for the month of November. But a closer look at the results suggested that KFC continues to struggle. A limited-time half-price offer on buckets of KFC chicken fueled a 16 percent increase in same-restaurant sales for the first 10 days of November. But once the promotion expired, sales were down about 8 percent for the remainder of the month. KFC China is not repeating the special in December. Wall Street expects KFC China's same-restaurant sales to improve this month, largely because those results will be compared with the sharp decline in December 2012. Seven analysts, on average, expect KFC China sales to rise 7.2 percent in December, according to Consensus Metrix. (Additional reporting by Shanghai newsroom; editing by Emily Kaiser and Matthew Lewis)
Google FinanceU.S. futures fell after a round of¬† better-than-expected economic data. Then they rallied early in the U.S. trading session. And now they're in the red in what appears to be an accelerating selloff. The Dow is down 107 points, the S&amp;P is down 14 points, and the Nasdaq is down 28 points. Markets began moving lower just ahead of the surprisingly strong ADP jobs report, which showed U.S. companies added 215,000 net new private payrolls in November. This was much stronger than the 170,000 expected by economists. Even better, October's jobs number was revised up to 184,000 from an earlier reading of 130,000. This stronger than expected economic data increases the likelihood that the Federal Reserve will begin tapering its stimulative quantitative easing program. "The key risks to markets are US growth being too strong (leading to earlier-than- expected tapering), China growth surprising on the downside, too much corporate spending (bad for margins and depreciation charges) and a European political event," said Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite on Tuesday. It certainly seems a bit ironic that stocks would take a hit because economic growth is stronger than expected. Of course the risk of liquidity being unexpectedly sucked out of the market is a hazard everyone should be worried about.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Justice Department plans to bring civil mortgage fraud cases against several financial institutions early in 2014, using as a template the case that ended last month in JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co's $13 billion settlement, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said on Wednesday. In an interview with Reuters, Holder would not say which companies or how many could face lawsuits but said the Justice Department was in contact with them and it was hard to say whether the talks would lead to settlements. "We have a number of investigations that are coming to a head at the same time," he said. "It is my hope that the next round of these cases will be filed soon after the new year." JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank, agreed last month to pay $13 billion to end a series of government investigations into its marketing and sale of mortgage-backed securities. The settlement had four elements that were important to the government, Holder said: the resolution of civil fraud allegations, the ability of prosecutors to pursue criminal charges if warranted, a statement of facts describing the bank's conduct and help for consumers hurt in the financial crisis. "Those four things I think comprise what we think of as a template for the resolution of these other matters as they're brought," he said. Holder said it was difficult to predict how new cases will "ultimately be resolved, at least at this point - whether there will be a resolution or whether we will actually be filing something in the absence of a resolution." (Editing by Howard Goller and Matthew Lewis)
The program will supplement an existing $5 billion buyback authorization, Deere said on Wednesday. About $1 billion remains under the previous program. Deere shares were up 3.3 percent at $85.42 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The company offered an upbeat earnings forecast for 2014 last month, saying that sales of construction and forestry equipment in the coming year should offset an anticipated slowdown in demand for agricultural machinery. (Reporting by Sagarika Jaisinghani in Bangalore; Editing by Ted Kerr)
REUTERS/Joe Tan Modern lifestyles are closely linked to rising obesity. As emerging markets follow the lead of the US, expanding waistlines could provide a guide to consumption-related investment trends in emerging markets. People are gaining weight in most regions across the globe. Body mass index, a measure of weight in relation to height, has been rising in both developed and developing nations (Display 1). Alliance Bernstein Blog It is unfortunate that emerging markets seem poised to inherit the unwanted side effects of economic progress. Yet if they follow the trends we‚Äôve seen in the developed world, there will be far-reaching implications for economies and markets. As a result, we think investors should pay close attention to obesity as an important indicator of consumer and health-related trends in emerging-market countries. U.S. Sets Obesity Trends To understand why, look at the US. Average calorie consumption in the US rose steadily from approximately 3,000 calories a day in the early 1970s to 3,800 in 2006, according to UN statistics. About two-thirds of Americans are overweight today, based on the World Health Organization‚Äôs definition. It‚Äôs clear that a modern lifestyle has led to greater consumption of high-calorie foods and less physical activity. Fewer Americans are engaged in physical work, and sedentary desk jobs are the norm. China: From Famine to Feast Today, China seems to be following American patterns. Rapid urbanization and modernization have prompted a sharp decline in physical activity‚Äîespecially in the workplace. People are consuming more processed and packaged foods‚Äîand more calories. So, it‚Äôs no surprise that obesity is on the rise. A study published in Obesity Reviews reported that 11.4% of Chinese men were obese in 2009, compared with 2.9% in 1993, and obesity is rising among women and children, too. It‚Äôs hard to imagine that only a generation ago, between 1958 and 1961, millions of Chinese died of famine. Meanwhile, venues for physical exercise are limited in cities, and online entertainment is booming. The average Chinese user now spends about 20 hours a week online‚Äîmore than double a decade earlier. And China is already the world‚Äôs largest market for online gaming. Obesity is no longer just a developed-market malaise. Simply put, when countries get richer, people consume more calories (Display 2) and burn less energy. In developed countries, this trend has typically continued for several decades before pressure has built up within society to pursue a healthier lifestyle. Alliance Bernstein Blog Fast Food and Smartphone Games Investors should take note. If the pattern follows that of developed countries, we would expect to see increasing demand for snacks, sodas, fast food and prepared meals in emerging markets from Johannesburg to Jakarta. Identifying and investing in emerging-market food manufacturers and fast-food franchises that should do well in the future could be akin to investing in McDonald‚Äôs or Coca-Cola 30 or 40 years ago. Today, the per-capita concentration of fast-food chains in emerging markets is still less than one-tenth of US levels. Smartphones and gaming are also worth watching. As an increasingly overweight adolescent generation starts to earn money, we would expect spending on smartphone games to increase, and would look for investment opportunities in companies poised to benefit from this trend. Diet Products and Diabetes Treatments Meanwhile, medical companies and drugmakers that offer solutions and treatments for obesity should also grow rapidly, in our view. These could include companies that sell diet products or diabetes treatments. China is already home to the largest number of diabetics in the world‚Äî11.6% of the population today versus 1% in 1980, according to the Journal of the American Medical Association. In the US, 10.9% of the population suffers from diabetes, reports the International Diabetes Federation (IDF). Diabetes-related expenditure per person in China was $333 in 2013 compared to $1,436 worldwide and $9,800 in the US, IDF data show. And the organization estimates that 54% of those living with diabetes are undiagnosed. Of course, it will be great news if developing countries don‚Äôt follow the US example and choose healthier lifestyles. But for now, the evidence from China and elsewhere suggests that an obesity epidemic is in the making, and that it has the potential to influence key sectors across emerging markets. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams. AllianceBernstein Limited is authorized and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom.
 REUTERS/Alessandro Bianchi Silvio Berlusconi has been a constant fixture of Italian politics for decades, but, thanks to a fraud case verdict that effectively barred him from politics and placed him under house arrest, his time at the top may finally be over. The senate voted last week to formally expel him, and his political party, the People of Freedom (PdL), has split. Berlusconi is an incredibly wiley customer, however ‚Äî don't forget he rose from a fairly middle class family to become both Italy's richest man and prime minister ‚Äî and the Italian press suspect he has a plan: Seeking election in Bulgaria. The idea would revolve around the 2014 European Parliament elections, due to be held in May. Thanks to his fraud conviction, Berlusconi is now ineligible to run for re-election in Italy, but MEP elections remain open to him, and, in theory, any European citizen can run as a candidate for any EU member state. On Sunday, Italian newspaper Libero reported that thanks to his friendship with the former Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, Bulgaria was a likely target for Berlusconi. Why would Berlusconi want to be a Bulgarian MEP? Well, for one thing the position would no doubt stroke his ego ‚Äî it'd be a very Berlusconi-like way to thumb his nose at the Italian liberals who forced him out. But there's another, more practical factor. When Berlusconi was forced out of the senate, he lost the many protections that Italian politicians receive against investigation and prosecution. Being a member of the European Parliament would restore his immunity, and for someone with connections to as many criminal cases as Berlusconi does, that would be a big relief (he's currently appealing a conviction for sex with an underage prostitute and abusing the power of the prime minister's office, amongst other legal wrangles). Exactly how such a plan would work in practice is a little unclear, however. Italian website Il Post reports that Berlusconi may have to renounce his Italian citizenship and accept Bulgarian citizenship to stand, and that Bulgaria's president, currently Rosen Plevneliev, could give Berlusconi citizenship by special decree. Borisov's party GERB are in opposition right now, but they control a considerable portion of the vote. Unfortunately for Silvio, GERB have ruled Berlusconi out as a candidate, but a far smaller party has said they would love him to run for them. "Silvio Berlusconi has a place in Bulgarian politics. He is more patriotic than all of our MEPs put together,"¬†Yane Yanev, the leader of the Order, Law and Justice (RZS) party, reportedly told the BTV network on Tuesday. "I'll go further, Berlusconi deserves to be the head of our list of candidates at the European elections". 
Gold is having a big day. The yellow metal is trading around $1247 an ounce, up $26 (or 2.1%) on the day. Much of the price appreciation has come since noon in North American trading, as the chart below shows. BNN reporter Amber Kanwar says there may be a large buyer in the market: Gold popping higher right now. Trader tells me a big buyer is in the market. Up ~$25/oz $GLD $GDX @BNN "Tighter monetary policy in the U.S. and rising rates are hanging over the market and could push gold towards $1,100/oz in 2014," wrote BofA Merrill Lynch analysts in a December 2 note to clients. "Yet, while the pause in the bull market may continue, we see several encouraging signs, most notably physical demand from EM, that suggest to us that gold remains a sound medium-term investment." Thinkorswim
More than 11 million American families are now in the lower-middle class.¬† And a majority of them feature married couples, new Brookings data show.¬† The group found that while the majority of the 7 million households below the federal poverty level (FPL) comprise unmarried women, 56% of households living between 100% and 250% of the poverty level, which Brookings defines as lower-middle class, are headed by married individuals. The average federal poverty level is about $32,000. Charts: Brookings This does not exactly jibe with the strides made by married folks in the past few decades, although Brookings does not provide historical data for a direct comparison. According to Pew, incomes for married women grew 61% to $73,774 during the period, compared with 59% growth to $48,738 for unmarried women. The rate for married men climbed 62% to $74,642, while growing just 26% to $65,849 for unmarried men.¬† Those gains may have now slowed.¬† We addressed a likely root cause of this in the 20th "megatrend" of our recent US 20 Megatrends feature: Men are falling behind big. They were long ago surpassed by women in education, and more than a quarter of all married couples now have women earning as much as or more than men, compared with 7% in 2011. Of course, married couples still comprise a majority of the highest income earners.¬† It's just that you're now likely to find a similar percentage among the lower class.
Gold and silver bullion was apparently among the biggest selling items on Bitcoin Black Friday. According to Bitpay, one of the largest Bitcoin payment processors, the top-three online retailers on November 29 were KnCMiner (whose gonzo order volume for its latest mining device we told you about yesterday), Gyft, and Amagi Metals. Amagi Metals chief¬†Stephen McAskill told BI in a separate interview that his site processed $900,000 worth of bitcoin between Thanksgiving and Sunday. The biggest selling items were silver and gold coins and bars, he said.¬† "To me it makes sense," he said. "A lot of bitcoin enthusiasts are interested in sound money, money that doesn't lose value." But there are still enough users who think bitcoin will someday retain the value of gold, he said. We asked Gyft, a gift card site, for any more data about what people bought with Bitcoin, and spokesman Ian Chaffee could only say electronics and food. Bitpay The price of bitcoin as of Wednesday afternoon was $1,1184. The price of an ounce of gold was $1,228.
REUTERS/Kacper PempelAdd Jay-Z to the growing list of successful men who don't eat meat. † The hip-hop mogul announced Tuesday on his blog, that he "will embark on a 22 Days challenge to go completely vegan, or as I prefer to call it, plant-based!!"† Jay-Z may not have made a lifetime commitment to stop eating meat, but there are many other influencers who have, transcending the stereotype that "real men eat meat." The trend, which says "I can be strong and powerful and still eat kale," parallels mounting public awareness about the damaging effects of meat consumption on health and the environment. For some, the welfare of factory-farmed animals is also a concern. In the United States, vegetarians are still rare: Only 5% of American adults say they are vegetarian, according to a 2012 Gallup study, and just 2% of people consider themselves vegan ó people who don't eat any ingredients that come from an animal, including eggs, milk, and honey. While the percentage of vegetarians has remained the same over the last decade, this pattern may slowly change as tofu and salads became more fashionable among America's male movers and shakers.
Urban Outfitters has "gone too fashion forward" and is losing its mass appeal, according to Goldman Sachs. The brand "is on par with fashion pace setters, maybe too much so for its core customer, in our view," analysts wrote in a recent note. "The assortment leaves us concerned UO has gone too fashion forward, backing into a position of having content that caters to the niche vs. the masses." "Fashion forward" doesn't exactly describe what we found when we scanned Urban's inventory to find out what has analysts scratching their heads. Here's a coat, for example, that's made to look like a bear pelt. It's made of polyester and latex and costs $200. Urban Outfitters Urban Outfitters' stock has fallen more than 6% this year while sales have been declining and the retailer struggles to get rid of excess inventory. Urban Outfitters CEO Ted Marlow said on a call with analysts last month that the brand's disappointing sales boil down to its fashion offerings. "I attribute the shortfall in the North American market to missed fashion calls, off pitch marketing, and poor creative execution," he said. Here's another questionable style we found: Urban Outfitters The overall-skirt combo had poor customer reviews. Two buyers said they were returning it for being cheaply made.† "It was coming apart as I took it out of the bag," one reviewer wrote. The brand's dip-dyed button-downs apparently didn't sell very well, either. Two versions are on sale for more than 60% off their original price. Urban Outfitters †Also on the sale rack is this floral jumpsuit, which was originally $198: Urban Outfitters One customer called this sweater the "most awkward purchase" and said she looked like a "sheepdog" when wearing it:† Urban Outfitters Marlow said during last month's call with analysts that Urban really miscalculated demand for certain styles of women's pants. "We placed a bet [on certain fashions] and we didn't cover the volume that we wanted to cover on that," he said. Here's a pair on sale:† Urban Outfitters Marlow also said the brand may have been "too aggressive" with certain men's styles in apparel.† Perhaps he was referring to†this: Urban Outfitters
More than one in five American children faces food insecurity in 37 states and DC, according to a report from Brookings. Food insecurity occurs when someone has limited ability (or is uncertain about the availability) of attaining acceptable "nutritionally adequate" foods. "Food insecurity exists everywhere in the United States, with¬†more than 16 percent of individuals living in households¬†reporting conditions indicating food insecurity," according to the report. The highest rates are in New Mexico and Washington, DC. Regionally, the most affected areas are the South and West. Even in the North Dakota, the best state, one in 10 children is food insecure. Take a look at the map. Brookings
Beg, Steal &amp; Borrow I‚Äôve gotten in the awkward habit on Bankers Anonymous of stealing monthly thoughts from an investment advisor named David Hultstrom of Financial Architects LLC ‚Äì about whom I know very little ‚Äì except that he writes very clearly and sensibly about personal investing. In this month‚Äôs note to his clients he addresses the issue of time horizon and the probability of stocks beating bonds, or more broadly stated, risky assets beating non-risky assets.¬† Hultstrom provides a graphical illustration of the probability, based on historical data, of higher returns from stocks than from bonds.¬† What his graph shows is that the longer your time horizon, the higher the probability that you will outperform if your portfolio holds stocks, or risky assets, rather than bonds, or non-risky assets. Probability of outperformance stocks vs bonds Of course, history is no guarantee of future outcomes, but it can be a useful guide. [NOTE: What I say next is my own personal interpretation of Hultstrom‚Äôs graph, not a paraphrase of his investing advice.¬† I suspect from reading him over time that he would be more cautious than I am about to be.¬† Also he has actual clients with money on the line and I do not have fiduciary responsibility for any individuals beyond my own family.¬† So I can be pleasantly improvident and bold.¬† Apologies in advance to Hultstrom for taking his great graph and using it for my own aggressive statements.] Question: Where to invest?¬†  Answer: 100% equities, for the long run¬†  Whenever I hear someone wonder whether her retirement account should invest in a mix of stocks or bonds, or even whether his young child‚Äôs college fund should hold bonds, I wish for this graphical presentation. ¬†Maybe I will start carrying it around in my back pocket, and I‚Äôll wave it in front of people seeking the false security of bonds. ¬†Long-horizon projects like retirement ‚Äì or a young child‚Äôs college fund ‚Äì must be almost entirely dedicated to equities or similarly risky assets. You can‚Äôt afford to invest in bonds, or cash, or money markets. Of course, not necessarily for the short run If you have a 1 to 5 year investment horizon, you take a considerable risk owning stocks, relative to bonds.¬† Considering Hultstrom‚Äôs graphic, you run a 30% risk of underperformance owning stocks for a short term, say less than 5 year, period. If, on the other hand, you have a 15-year investment horizon, or longer, you‚Äôre hardly taking any risk of underperformance at all.¬† On the contrary, you practically guarantee underperformance by owning bonds ‚Äì close to a 90% certainly over a 15 year period, and a 99% certainty over a 20 year period, if history can be believed. Be prepared for volatility Hultstrom also helpfully points out that during your holding period ‚Äì sometime within that, say, 20-year time frame ‚Äì your stock portfolio can be expected to lose 40% of its value because that‚Äôs what risky assets do.¬† But your entire return, held for the long haul, will beat bonds or riskless assets 99+% of the time. I‚Äôm only 41, and I‚Äôve got another 70 years or so before retirement.[1]¬† So it has to be 100% stocks in the retirement portfolio for me. [1] I‚Äôm descended from Hobbits.¬† No retirement until my 111th birthday. Post read (0) times. Beg, Steal &amp; Borrow I‚Äôve gotten in the awkward habit on Bankers Anonymous of stealing monthly thoughts from an investment advisor named David Hultstrom of Financial Architects LLC ‚Äì about whom I know very little ‚Äì except that he writes very clearly and sensibly about personal investing. In this month‚Äôs note to his clients he addresses the issue of time horizon and the probability of stocks beating bonds, or more broadly stated, risky assets beating non-risky assets.¬† Hultstrom provides a graphical illustration of the probability, based on historical data, of higher returns from stocks than from bonds.¬† What his graph shows is that the longer your time horizon, the higher the probability that you will outperform if your portfolio holds stocks, or risky assets, rather than bonds, or non-risky assets. Probability of outperformance stocks vs bonds Of course, history is no guarantee of future outcomes, but it can be a useful guide. [NOTE: What I say next is my own personal interpretation of Hultstrom‚Äôs graph, not a paraphrase of his investing advice.¬† I suspect from reading him over time that he would be more cautious than I am about to be.¬† Also he has actual clients with money on the line and I do not have fiduciary responsibility for any individuals beyond my own family.¬† So I can be pleasantly improvident and bold.¬† Apologies in advance to Hultstrom for taking his great graph and using it for my own aggressive statements.] Question: Where to invest?¬†  Answer: 100% equities, for the long run¬†  Whenever I hear someone wonder whether her retirement account should invest in a mix of stocks or bonds, or even whether his young child‚Äôs college fund should hold bonds, I wish for this graphical presentation. ¬†Maybe I will start carrying it around in my back pocket, and I‚Äôll wave it in front of people seeking the false security of bonds. ¬†Long-horizon projects like retirement ‚Äì or a young child‚Äôs college fund ‚Äì must be almost entirely dedicated to equities or similarly risky assets. You can‚Äôt afford to invest in bonds, or cash, or money markets. Of course, not necessarily for the short run If you have a 1 to 5 year investment horizon, you take a considerable risk owning stocks, relative to bonds.¬† Considering Hultstrom‚Äôs graphic, you run a 30% risk of underperformance owning stocks for a short term, say less than 5 year, period. If, on the other hand, you have a 15-year investment horizon, or longer, you‚Äôre hardly taking any risk of underperformance at all.¬† On the contrary, you practically guarantee underperformance by owning bonds ‚Äì close to a 90% certainly over a 15 year period, and a 99% certainty over a 20 year period, if history can be believed. Be prepared for volatility Hultstrom also helpfully points out that during your holding period ‚Äì sometime within that, say, 20-year time frame ‚Äì your stock portfolio can be expected to lose 40% of its value because that‚Äôs what risky assets do.¬† But your entire return, held for the long haul, will beat bonds or riskless assets 99+% of the time. I‚Äôm only 41, and I‚Äôve got another 70 years or so before retirement.[1]¬† So it has to be 100% stocks in the retirement portfolio for me. [1] I‚Äôm descended from Hobbits.¬† No retirement until my 111th birthday. Post read (37) times. Thanks for visiting Bankers Anonymous. Be sure to sign-up for my newsletter so you never miss what's happening on my site. You can also connect with me on Facebook and Twitter to keep the conversation going.
APWhen the federal government shutdown finally came to an end in the middle of October, one of the provisions of the deal was the start of a budget conference between the House and Senate. Not many people thought the conference would lead to anything. But the two leaders on the 29-member bipartisan budget panel ‚Äî Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) are closing in on a small deal that could quiet down talks of another shutdown in January.¬† The deal is far from the elusive "grand bargain." According to congressional aides, here are some of the parameters of the ongoing negotiations: Both sides caution that the deal could still run into snags. Many Republicans think that the sequester cuts shouldn't be rolled back at all. Some Democrats are already pushing back at the talk of changes to the federal employee retirement program and the lack of an extension of unemployment benefits.¬† If a budget deal is not reached in the next few days, House Speaker John Boehner prefers, according to CNN, to move before Christmas recess a continuing resolution to keep the government funded at a $967 billion level, which keeps the sequestration cuts. Government funding expires on Jan. 15, the deadline that could trigger another shutdown.¬†
Is this the beginning of a significant correction? I doubt it since corrections and bear markets are triggered by mounting concerns about a recession. The latest data are pointing more to a boom than a bust. Iím not sure if the folks at the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) have changed their mind yet about the economy being in a recession. Their Weekly Leading Indicator sure doesnít show it. Neither does the Conference Boardís Leading Economic Indicator, which rose to a cyclical high during October. The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index remains subdued with a reading of 5.1 yesterday. However, Novemberís M-PMI was surprisingly strong, causing some economic truthers to question its accuracy. I expressed some of my doubts yesterday as well. But then auto sales came out for November, showing that they spiked up to a new cyclical high of 16.4 million units. However, this may be partly a rebound from Octoberís sales, which were depressed by the partial shutdown of the federal government. The two-month average was 15.8 million units, a slight uptick from the third quarterís 15.7 million units. Another upbeat indicator was yesterdayís construction report showing that total construction put in place also rose to a new cyclical high, though it remains 25% below the record high during March 2006. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: A Tablet on Every Table. (1) Something is different this time. (2) Dow Chemical shedding low-margin businesses. (3) Trauma of 2008 remains traumatic. (4) Improving on the margin. (5) IT leading the margin parade. (6) Thereís an app for that, even when dining out. (7) Industries with rising and falling margins. (8) Corrections usually caused by recession fears. (9) No correction if QE tapered due to strong economy. (10) Car sales and construction spending at cyclical highs. (11) Focus on overweight-rated auto-related S&amp;P 500 industries. (More for subscribers.)
The Philadelphia Fed has released its monthly suite of state leading indicators, which project economic growth rates for each of the 50 U.S. states over the next six months, as illustrated in the map below. 46 states are expected to see growth in economic activity into the second quarter of 2014, while 4 are expected to register a decline in activity. Those four states are Wyoming, Kentucky, Alabama, and Alaska. In contrast, South Carolina is the only state expected to grow more than 4.5% in the next six months. The entire U.S., by comparison, is expected to grow 1.4% over that timeframe, according to the Philly Fed release. Here's the Philly Fed's description of what goes into the projections: "The leading index for each state predicts the six-month growth rate of the state‚Äôs coincident index. In addition to the coincident index, the models include other variables that lead the economy: state-level housing permits (1 to 4 units), state initial unemployment insurance claims, delivery times from the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) manufacturing survey, and the interest rate spread between the 10-year Treasury bond and the 3-month Treasury bill." Philadelphia Fed
Like training wheels and braces, at a certain age some things just aren't cute anymore. In fact, at a certain age, cute is over. In and outside of the work place, young professional women should dress like they have jobs, pay taxes, and have moved out of the double bedroom on the second floor of their parents' house they used to share with their younger sister. For ladies slugging it out working on Wall Street, this is crucial. You will see your colleagues a lot, and you will need to look sharper and more put together than them 100% of that time. Ask any woman who's ever spent a day at an investment bank. Luckily, this isn't necessarily a hard thing to do. However, there are a few all-too-commonly found pieces of clothing in the American woman's wardrobe that can destroy any impression of adulthood or maturity. We've collected a number of them here. Like, girl, you should never have anything written on your butt.
New home sales surged 25.4% month-over-month to an annualized pace of 444,000 in October. While this seems like a huge jump, it is similar to rates of sales seen in Q1 (449,000) and Q2 (443,000) of 2013, before the lagged effect of higher mortgage rates, wrote Michael Gapen of Barclays. Two key things prompted the surge we saw in October. Diggle writes that the new home sales data shows that higher mortgage rates "will not derail the housing recovery." Here's a look at the trajectory of new home sales: Capital Economics
A majority of young people are straight-up scared about student debt, a new poll from the Harvard Institute of Politics shows. Gawker's Hamilton Nolan highlighted the report. The major findings: Here's the graphic†from the report: Harvard Institute of Politics
REUTERS/Darren StaplesA judge inspects a pig during the 160th and final Royal Show in Stoneleigh, central England July 7, 2009.  British Prime Minister David Cameron was in China for the past three days for a trip that has seen some controversial moments. However, there's at least one clear success: The United Kingdom has signed a deal to export porcine semen to China that will net British farmers a reported ¬£45 million ($73 million) a year. Yes, pig sperm. According to a report in the Guardian, beginning next year British pigs will be taken to one of four artificial insemination centers in the U.K. and their semen will then fly to China (either frozen or fresh) and be used to inseminate the Chinese pig population. Big trades of sperm may seem unusual, but in the world of pig farming this makes complete sense. The Chinese pork industry is staggeringly huge ‚Äî more than half of the pigs in the world are believed to live in China and it is a major source of protein for Chinese citizens ‚Äî but the industry is out of date and inefficient. Incredibly, despite its huge pig population, China became a net importer of pork in 2008. British pigs could help. Not only is their meat considered high quality (for example, Berkshire pork, one of the most lauded varieties in the world, originates in the U.K.), it's a world leader in breeding economical pigs: Chris Jackson, export manager of the British Pig Association, told the Financial Times that British pigs can grow faster than their Chinese counterparts, and they eat less food and reproduce quicker. Amazingly, the cost of a pig in the U.K. is reported to be half that of one in China. Crucially, the deal is a big win for British pork farmers, who have struggled domestically for years. The industry is reported to net around ¬£300 million ($490 million) a year, but that's down from double that a decade ago, and pork prices are severely constrained by supermarket shoppers' demands for cheap meat. Sperm is one way to make money off high-quality pigs without affecting the domestic supply, and there are broader hopes within the U.K. agricultural industry that Britain could turn itself into something like the Saudi Arabia of sperm, selling its "liquid gold" not only from pigs, but also from cattle and sheep, to China and other places all around the world. There's another neat detail to the U.K.-China deal too: Pig trotters (feet) may be next. Stewart Houston, chairman of the British Pig Executive, told the FT that semen was a "big deal" but "nothing compared with the trotters." While pig trotters aren't commonly used in British cuisine, they are considered a delicacy in China ‚Äî in October a Chinese official was suspended after racking up bills totaling 700,000 yuan ($115,000) at a pig trotter restaurant over three years. The U.K. government believes trotters, essentially waste products in Britain, could net U.K. farmers ¬£7.5 million ($12 million) a year if an agreement is made.
Cleveland Fed"The joint probability of breaching either the unemployment threshold or the inflation threshold and at the same time satisfying the inflation floor first crosses 50 percent by 2016:Q1, a four-quarter delay compared with the case without an inflation floor."‚ÄîCleveland Fed economists Edward S. Knotek II and Saeed Zaman.One of the big questions that emerged from the minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee's October meeting was how the Federal Reserve's monetary policymaking body could reinforce the forward guidance it offers on the likely future path of short-term interest rates. Current guidance dictates that the central bank will not raise the benchmark fed funds rate from its current target level between 0 and 0.25% until the unemployment rate falls below 6.5%. Yet the Fed is also buying $85 billion of bonds each month under its quantitative easing program, which the Committee would like to wind down soon in favor of relying more heavily on forward guidance to continue stimulating the economy. Developments in recent FOMC communications have led Wall Street economists to predict that the Fed will look to augment its forward guidance around the time it begins tapering down its bond buying program in order to quell volatility in financial markets. The latest minutes revealed, however, that the Committee hadn't yet figured out at the time of its October meeting the best way to implement such a change. A new analysis released today by researchers at the Cleveland Fed suggests that adding a 1.75% inflation floor to the Fed's 6.5% unemployment threshold would likely delay breaching of forward guidance thresholds by a year. The basic finding of the study, according to the authors, Cleveland Fed vice president Edward S. Knotek II and senior economic research analyst¬†Saeed Zaman: "The joint probability of breaching either the unemployment threshold or the inflation threshold and at the same time satisfying the inflation floor first crosses 50 percent by 2016:Q1, a four-quarter delay compared with the case without an inflation floor." "An inflation floor of 1.75 percent could delay the point at which both the floor is satisfied and a threshold is crossed by about one year," write the researchers. "This exercise suggests that the choice of an inflation floor could exert a considerable delay on the liftoff of the federal funds rate from the zero lower bound." The option was discussed at the October FOMC meeting, according to the minutes, but the Committee was divided on the likely impact of such a measure. "Participants also weighed the merits of stating that, even after the unemployment rate dropped below 6-1/2 percent, the target for the federal funds rate would not be raised so long as the inflation rate was projected to run below a given level," stated the minutes. "In general, the benefits of adding this kind of quantitative floor for inflation were viewed as uncertain and likely to be rather modest, and communicating it could present challenges, but a few participants remained favorably inclined toward it." Knotek II and Zaman¬†say whether or not the FOMC adds an inflation floor to its suite of forward guidance, the "single most likely scenario" according to its forecasts is that the 6.5% unemployment rate threshold will be breached in the third quarter of 2015.
Business InsiderOne of the more infuriating things students learn in a high school math class is the identity 0.99999Ö = 1. It seems like there should be some tiny infinitesimal number between the two, and it seems strange that they would equal each other. To see why the two do equal each other, we need to figure out what an infinitely long decimal expansion like 0.999Ö actually means. Finitely long, or terminating, decimals are pretty straightforward. These just represent fractions with a denominator that is a power of ten. 0.9 represents the fraction 9/10, 0.25 the fraction 25/100 = 1/4. We can use terminating decimals to build up non-terminating decimals. Infinitely long decimals are a shorthand way to write out a sequence of finitely long terminating decimals. 0.999Ö represents a sequence of terminating decimals where each number in the sequence is a string of 9's after the decimal point. The first number in the sequence is 0.9, the second number is 0.99, the third number is 0.999, the fourth number is 0.9999, and so on. For each number in the sequence, we attach another 9 at the end of the previous number's expansion. Here we are no longer dealing with a weird infinitely long decimal expansion, but instead a collection of nice, basic, easy to understand terminating decimals.† As we go through our sequence, sticking more 9's at the end of our terminating decimals, we are getting closer and closer to 1. The distance between two real numbers is just the difference of the larger number minus the smaller number. So, the distance between the first number in our sequence and 1 is 1 - 0.9 = 0.1. The distance between 1 and our second number is 1 - 0.99 = 0.01. The distance between 1 and our third number is 1 - 0.999 = 0.001. Each term of our sequence gets closer and closer to 1, and for any tiny little distance we want, we can find a number in our sequence ó some finite pile of 9's after a decimal point ó that is closer to 1 than that tiny little distance. Since we saw above that the numbers in our sequence are always getting closer to 1, this further means that all the subsequent numbers in the sequence will also be closer to 1 than our tiny distance. To see this in action, here are the first five numbers in our sequence, all getting really close to 1: Business Insider When an infinite sequence of numbers has this property of getting arbitrarily close to some number ó when, for any tiny little distance we choose, we can find some point in the sequence so that every number in the sequence after that point is closer to the target number than that tiny little chosen distance ó we say that the sequence converges to that number, called the limit of the sequence. In the case of an infinite decimal, again standing in for the kind of infinite sequence of terminating decimals we saw above, we identify the sequence with its limit. This is what we mean when we say that 0.999... = 1 ó the sequence of terminating decimals 0.9, 0.99, 0.999, 0.9999, and so on, converges to 1, so the repeating decimal 0.9999... representing the limit of that sequence, is said to be equal to 1. The same idea works for any rational number with a repeating infinite decimal expansion. 0.333... = 1/3, since the sequence of terminating decimals 0.3, 0.33, 0.333, and so on converges to 1/3 ó the numbers in the sequence get arbitrarily close to 1/3. Something similar happens with irrational numbers that have non-repeating decimal expansions. When we say that†p = 3.14159..., what we mean is that the sequence of terminating decimal numbers 3, 3.1, 3.14, 3.141, 3.1415, 3.14159, and so on, converges to†p. In general, any infinitely long decimal expansion is thought of as the limit of the sequence of terminating decimals that make up the infinite expansion.† So, the reason why 0.999... = 1, and why†p = 3.14159..., comes out of this idea of what an infinitely long, non-terminating decimal expansion actually represents ó a sequence of terminating decimals that gets arbitrarily close to some number.
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidFormer SAC Capital portfolio manager Michael Steinberg (R) arrives with his lawyer Barry Berke at the Manhattan Federal Courthouse in New York.An interesting thing happened yesterday at the trial of Michael Steinberg, the SAC portfolio manager accused of insider trading. It's a fun lesson in semantics, insider trading, or none of the above. We're not quite sure. The gist of the trial is this: Steinberg was the boss of a former SAC analyst named Jon Horvath. Horvath pleaded guilty to insider trading and is now the government's star witness against Steinberg. Their old firm, SAC, pleaded guilty to insider trading, coughed up almost $2 billion in fines, and will morph from one of the world's meatiest hedge funds to a family office. Last week in court, Horvath testified that after a bad stock pick in 2007, Steinberg approached him on the trading floor and told him to provide "edgy, proprietary information" that would lead to the firm making good trades, reports the Wall Street Journal. According to Horvath's testimony, Steinberg never actually said, "OK, go do illegal insider trading now," but Horvath got the memo. Have an edge. Be edgy!†Break the law or you'll be out of here, he figured. This is where things get interesting. When Steinberg's lawyer, Berry Berke, cross-examined Horvath yesterday, he "showed Mr. Horvath a number of SAC documents explaining research methods that used the words 'edge,' 'edgy' and 'proprietary,' including an email that he said Mr. Horvath was sent on his first day of work at the firm in September of 2006." As in, edginess was in your job description, buddy! "After a series of testy exchanges about the documents," Horvath said that Steinberg used the terms "proprietary" and "edgy" throughout his tenure at the firm. Of course, Horvath interpreted this as "find me material non-public information on which to trade," and so that's exactly what he did. He testified that he had sources inside Dell, among other places, and that he passed inside information on to Steinberg. Steinberg's take seems to be, "Hey, not my problem you misinterpreted what edgy means." What to make of all this? Is this one of those "depends on what your definition of†is†is" kind of moments? Or did Steinberg's "edginess" dictum contain the implicit†wink all along? I guess that's why we have juries.
screengrab from InceptionThe U.S. economy has come a long way since the financial crisis. And 2014 is increasingly looking like the year that it could exit the "new normal," the extended period of sub-par growth described by PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian. Today, we learned that private payrolls are growing faster than expected, the trade deficit has shrunk more than expected, and new home sales jumped to a higher level than expected. "The economy looks to be creating 200K or more jobs in three out of the last four months," said Chris Rupkey, the top U.S. economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.¬† "US exports are setting all-time records, even sales to Europe are improving." "It looks like the economy is shaking off the uncertainty from Washington, and in 2014 the economy is finally going to have the wind at its back, making the dreams of 3% real GDP finally become a reality," he added. Economic acceleration is Wall Street's consensus for 2014 and 2015. "As 2013 draws to a close, the global economy looks to be exiting the slowdown of the past three years and entering a new phase of modest recovery and growth," wrote Willem Buiter, Citi's Chief Economist, in a note to clients earlier this week. "The trademark of 2014 appears to be that of incremental improvements. Yet, consistent, marginal improvement is, for this day and age, revolutionary." "The government shutdown is a transitory drag that has delayed an inflection point in the recovery by one quarter," said Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart earlier this week. "Final demand is strengthening as we move toward the New Year and the pieces remain in place for growth to shift into higher gear." It's "The End Of The End Of The World," says Nomura's Michael Kurtz.
Taste the delicious schadenfreunde: Oh the irony: Banksy's "Destroy Capitalism" prints for sale onhttp://t.co/SoSqOm7R2E†pic.twitter.com/Vw79nsxKsr Apparently, a third-party vendor sold the prints to Walmart, which in turn thought nothing of selling ripped off versions of the most famous anti-consumer street artist in the world. LAist†has this statement†from a Walmart rep: These items are sold through our Marketplace third-party sellers Wayfair and PlumStruck. Weíve taken action to disable the one item in question by Callo [sic], and it will be unpublished later tonight around midnight PT. We will also instruct Wayfair and Plumstruck to review their artwork to ensure the descriptions are accurate. Theyíve provided great products and experiences to our customers and are contracted to comply with product copyright, safety, testing and certification requirements. Weíll work closely with them on the review. In retaliation, Colla made a new print†called†"It's Only Stealing If You Get Caught": Eddie Colla Walmart has pulled both the "Banksy" prints and Colla's prints from its website, saying they're now out of stock. UPDATE:†I spoke with a representative for PlumStruck who said that they don't actually produce the Banksy prints, but get them through yet†another†third-party supplier. When I asked the PlumStruck rep who†their†supplier was, she told me she "didn't have the spelling" of their name, but that phonetically it sounds like "Kroto Inc" (a cursory Google search doesn't turn much up). I've also asked the PR agency that represents Banksy to weigh in on the matter. †
Hayman Capital Management, the hedge fund founded by Kyle Bass, has taken a stake in General Motors, Bloomberg reports. A GM spokesman has said they're not aware of Hayman's stake. Hayman says that the holding is one of their biggest, too. That's interesting in part because the fund isn't known for holding a lot of equities at all. General Motors announced its monthly sales for November yesterday, and they absolutely killed it. GM sales increased by 13.7% versus expectations for 13.5%. This story is developing, so we'll give you more as we have it.
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriEclectica Asset Management's Chief Investment Officer and Founding Partner Hugh HendryU.K.-based hedge fund manager Hugh Hendry, the founder of Eclectica Asset Management, made some interesting comments about how he thinks Bitcoin could go to $1 million,¬†Investment Week's Dan Jones reports. "This is the environment where Bitcoin could go to $1m. There is no qualitative reason, but it is trending. If I could own Bitcoin, I would," Hendry said, according to Investment Week. The reason Hendry doesn't own Bitcoin is because it's not available on a regular exchange, the report said.¬† The digital, decentralized currency that first emerged in 2009 is now trading above $1,100. ¬†
AP Photo/Mike GrollNew home sales surged 25.4% month-over-month to an annualized pace of 444,000 in October. This beat expectations for an annualized pace of 429,000. New home sales fell 6.6% in September to an annualized pace of 354,000. The September data was delayed because of the government shutdown. The median sales price of new houses sold in October 2013 was $245,800; the average sales price was $321,700. Meanwhile, the stock of new homes for sale at the end of October stood at 183,000, representing 4.9 months' supply at the current sales pace. "The jump is the result of a retracement of the sharp drop in the pace of purchases over the preceding three months when the level of sales averaged a paltry 368K," Millan Mulraine of TD Securities said."In fact, the rise back to the 444K takes the level of sales back to the trend pace during the first 6 months of the year, and it suggests that activity in this sector sector may be back on track after the hit from higher mortgage rates during the summer months." Tim Rood, partner at mortgage advisory firm Collingwood Group and former director at Fannie Mae,¬† pointed out however that these levels are however "extremely low by historical standards," and are far from 2006 levels. "Nationally, we're not expected to be back to pre-crisis highs until late 2017. Economists were expecting new home sales to slow as mortgage rates have remained elevated, with the 30-year fixed rate at 4.29%, according to the Freddie Mac's November 27 primary mortgage market survey. "The Federal government shutdown may have had an effect, as 17% of realtors said delays in IRS income verification weighed on sales in October," according to UBS economist Maury Harris. Other indicators of the housing market, like homebuilder sentiment and mortgage application have been softening. And the pending home sales index has been falling for some time now. And economists have been downgrading their home price forecasts for 2013 and 2014. The housing recovery is expected to slow going forward.
ISMSub-indices of the November ISM non-manufacturing report.The Institute for Supply Mananagement's November report on U.S. non-manufacturing activity is out. The headline index fell to 53.9 in November from October's 55.4 reading, worse than the smaller drop to 55.0 expected by economists. The reading suggests the pace of expansion in the American services sector slowed more than expected in November. The employment sub-index fell to 52.5 from 56.5, suggesting a similar slowdown in the pace of hiring in services industries. Below is what respondents to the ISM survey are saying: Earlier this morning, ADP released its monthly report on private sector employment, which estimated that 215,000 workers were added to private-sector payrolls in November ‚Äî up from an upward-revised 184,000 in October and well above consensus estimates for a 170,000 print. The release roiled the bond market as traders re-calibrated expectations for when the Federal Reserve is most likely to begin tapering down its quantitative easing program. 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are down more than 0.4%, and the yield on the 10-year note is 2.82%, 4 basis points above Tuesday's close. Other economic data reflecting activity in the month of November have surprised to the upside this week as well, including ISM's monthly survey of U.S. manufacturing activity and monthly auto sales figures. Traders will get two more big pieces of the taper puzzle Thursday and Friday with the release of Q3 GDP revisions and the all-important November jobs report, respectively.
Mike Segar / ReutersJim Chanos, Founder and Managing Partner of Kynikos Associates LP speaks at the Reuters Global Investment Outlook summit in New York, November 19, 2013.Jim Chanos ‚Äî who famously shorted Enron before the company collapsed ‚Äî has a new "large" short position in CGI Group, Newsweek's Lynnley Browning reports. CGI Federal, a wholly owned subsidiary of CGI Group, is the company behind the high-profile bungling of Healthcare.gov. From Newsweek: ...A 10-page memo Chanos sent recently to clients and obtained by¬†Newsweek¬†outlines the reasons he believes CGI‚Äôs corporate performance ‚Äì and stock price ‚Äì warrant scrutiny. Among them are decreasing cash flow ‚Äì a key metric of financial health ‚Äì and falling bookings of new business, as well as various ‚Äúaccounting conventions‚Äù that have improved CGI‚Äôs earnings, in part through recognizing revenue already counted by Logica plc, a big technology company CGI bought last year. Citing what he termed ‚Äúthe PR mess‚Äù surrounding its work on Healthcare.gov, Chanos added that the fallout could ‚Äúreduce the likelihood of future government contracts‚Äù for CGI and even require the company ‚Äúto give money back to the government.‚Äù Shares of CGI are up 15% in the last month and 54% year-to-date. Read the full report at Newsweek ¬ª
The Level I of the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam is being administered this Saturday and test-takers are probably freaking out this week. † The CFA curriculum, which consists of three levels, is considered one of the hardest exams on Wall Street. †It takes a person about five to six months to prepare and fewer than 20% of candidates pass all three levels on the first try. † Aside from memorizing formulas for the exam, test-takers have to know the CFA's†Code of Ethics &amp; Standards of Professional Conduct†inside and out.† The exam features real world-like scenarios and asks questions about what codes were violated. It sounds easy, but it's really not. What's more is CFA Charterholders and candidates are bound by this code of ethics and conduct, too. † † In fact, it's so important that they follow it or else they will be named and shamed in the "Disciplinary Notices" section of the CFA Institutes' monthly magazine.† It's pretty embarrassing. † You can see this month's section below: † Image from CFA Institute Magazine 
The U.S. trade deficit for October came in basically in-line with expectations this morning, narrowing to -$40.6 billion from -$43 billion last month.¬† The detail that often garners the most interest is oil imports.¬†These actually increased slightly from September, to $32.1 billion from $31.7 billion.¬†But they're down from $34.7 billion last October. More importantly, U.S. oil imports remain well below 2012 levels: Year-to-date, we are 11% lower than where we were in October 2012. Chart: Census
ìIf monetary and fiscal policies cannot produce the real growth that markets are priced for (and they have not), then investors at the margin ñ astute active investors like PIMCO, Bridgewater and GMO ñ will begin to prefer the comforts of a less risk-oriented migration. ì I disagree with him to some extent when he says that the markets have not been priced for the real growth weíve seen.† In fact, weíve seen booming corporate profits for years now and record EPS on the S&amp;P 500.† Weíve also seen very low inflation which doesnít make the move in bonds entirely unjustifiable.† Markets have not reacted all that irrationally to QE and the real economy so far.† But his point does keep me up at night as well.† And 2013 was a clear case of some irrational exuberance.† Any year where corporate profits grow by a measly 4.5% and the stock market booms by 25%+ makes you wonder about how rational the moves are. Of course, market prices are determined by the perceptions of its participants.† And yes, being a behavioralist and someone who rejects the efficient market hypothesis, I do worry about how people perceive QE and whether it can distort market prices.† After all, if a year like 2013 were to perpetuate weíd see markets that became severely distorted relative to underlying fundamentals.† And all based on what?† A false hope in a central bank that canít deliver what it promises?† We might not be at a point of severe disequilibrium yet, but the risk is looming. Of course, the difference between Bill Gross and myself is that he probably sleeps on a much nicer bed and can rest calmly knowing that his financial future is much more secure than mine is.† So I doubt heís losing too much sleep over this.† As for the rest of usÖ.
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachGraffiti is seen at the fence surrounding the construction site of the new European Central Bank headquarters in Frankfurt, December 3, 2013. Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderIn case you haven't been paying attention, the data for November seems to be off to a blazing stat. We had a good manufacturing report on Monday. Yesterday we got very strong November car sales. And today we had a lights-out ADP jobs report. That means this Friday's jobs report is going to be a huge deal for two reasons. One is that it might (might!) provide some evidence of real economic liftoff. And two is that for those people who are obsessed with the Fed's next move, a strong number could put the Fed strongly into "taper in December" camp, meaning that the long-awaited commencement of the wind-down of Quantitative Easing would be here. Analysts are looking for about 200K new jobs and a drop in the unemployment rate to 7.2% (from 7.3%). Get excited.†
Wikimedia CommonsU.S. trade balance narrowed to -$40.6 billion.¬† Consensus was for a reading of -$40.0 billion, versus a revised -$43 billion in September. Exports were up 1.3% to $192.7 billion, month-over-month, and 5.5% year-over-year. Full release ¬ª We just got a huge beat on ADP payrolls.
ADPThe November ADP national employment report, an important preview of Friday's jobs report, is out. Private companies added 215,000 new jobs in during the month, which was much stronger than the 170,000 expected by economists.¬† Furthermore, the October number was revised up to 184,000 from an earlier reading of 130,000. "The job market remained surprisingly resilient to the government shutdown and brinkmanship over the treasury debt limit," said Moody's Mark Zandi. "Employers across all industries and company sizes looked through the political battle in Washington. If anything, job growth appears to be picking up.‚Äù Here's the breakdown by industry: ADP And here's the breakdown by company size: ADP "The ADP report has displayed improved accuracy since Moody‚Äôs replaced Macroeconomic Advisers as the compiler of the data just over a year ago, although October‚Äôs relatively large 82K miss keeps alive the possibility that the improvement has been due to luck as much as improved methodology," noted High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan. Click Here Fore Live Updates ¬ª
Just in case you were getting too bullish on stocks, here's a neat chart from T. Rowe Price. It frames every S&amp;P 500 bull market since 1928 by return and duration. And as of fairly recently, our current bull market (March 2009 - today) reached middle age, meeting the average 57 months and 165% return. So what does this mean? Perhaps not much. Looking up and to the right, it's clear that bull markets can live for longer. But after a certain point, there's nowhere to go but down. T. Rowe Price
"Suppressed wage growth, layoffs, cost-cutting, productivity increases, accounting gimmickry and stock buybacks have been the primary factors in surging profitability. However, these actions are finite in nature and inevitably it will come down to topline revenue growth. However, since consumer incomes have been cannibalized by suppressed wages and interest rates - there is nowhere left to generate further sales gains from in excess of population growth." STA "This is why the gap between corporate profits and the number of working employees is the highest level on record.† Fewer workers, higher productivity and longer hours for the same pay, or less, equals higher corporate profits.† This is great for executives, primarily the top 10% of wage of earners, who are compensated from rising share prices, bonuses and other performance related compensation.† However, for the 'working stiff,' there is little reward for their labor." This "shift" has been critical to the employment landscape in the U.S. over the past 5-years as the number of individuals that are no longer counted as part of the "labor force" has risen above 90 million individuals which equates to roughly 36% of the entire working age population that are 16 years or older.† The chart of the labor force participation rate shows this problem graphically. STA The dramatic drop in the LFPR since the turn of the century has been dismissed as a function of the "baby boomer" generation reaching retirement age.† The problem with that assumption is that a large portion of the "boomer" generation is unable to financially retire and are holding onto their jobs for both incomes and healthcare.† Secondly, even assuming that the "boomers" do all retire it does not fully account for the drop in the labor force participation rate. In a recent study entitled "Labor Force Participation And Monetary Policy In The Wake Of The Great Recession," by Christopher Erceg and Andrew Levin of the Federal Reserve Board, the authors provide solid evidence that the decline in the labor force participation rate since 2007 has been due to cyclical factorsñthe recession and slow recoveryñrather than to demographic factors. †The chart below shows the estimate of how large the US unemployment rate would be without this abnormal decline in the labor force, and they produced this amazing chart which summarizes their findings. STA In other words, due to the weak economic recovery a large number of people have simply "dropped out" of the labor force but are not retired. Since the unemployment rate does not count the people who dropped out of the labor force it no longer gives a good reading of the state of the labor market. The unemployment rate would be much higher without this large decline in the labor force participation. STA There really is no longer a debate over labor market performance during the recent recovery as both are unusually weak.† This also no clear way to measure the millions of individuals who have disappeared into the abyss of the uncounted.† Many of the 90 million individuals that are currently unemployed, and not counted by the BLS, would likely be more than happy to work given the opportunity.† However, in the current economic environment, those options are not widely available which is why there is very much a silent "depression" running through the underbelly of this economy. While we may not see the breadlines and soup kitchens that existed in the 30's, it is simply because they exist electronically and in the mail. The real debate needs to be over the current economic policy makeup which is deterring real employment growth in the U.S.† The lack of fiscal policy from Congress, and dependence on monetary policy from the Fed, is not the prescription that this particular ailing patient needs.
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA man looks at the Pudong financial district of Shanghai November 20, 2013.Investors are still chewing over the implications of the sweeping reform package Chinese leaders laid out at the end of a major Communist Party gathering earlier this month, but one thing is already abundantly clear. The Chinese government wants the world to know it is serious about opening up its economy and liberalizing its financial system. To that end, it unveiled a variety of planned initiatives, from land reforms to a relaxation of the infamous one-child policy, the majority of which are intended to help the country sustain long-term economic growth. And the world was impressed. Dong Tao, Credit Suisseís Chief Economist for Non-Japan Asia, called the initiatives ìthe most comprehensive reform package weíve ever seen in the history of the Peopleís Republic.î The news comes at the right time. Credit Suisse Head of China Research Vincent Chan said that before the reforms were announced, the Chinese economy lacked clear drivers to even ensure steady long-term growth, let alone the blistering 7.5 percent-plus annual GDP increases it has enjoyed for the last decade. The $585 billion stimulus package approved in 2008 to stave off the effects of the global financial crisis buoyed the economy for two years after it was introduced, but the effects have since worn off. Economists have also become concerned about Chinaís soaring credit-to-GDP ratio, which has risen from 120 percent to more than 180 percent in the last four years, largely as a result of local government borrowing. The most immediate beneficiaries of the reforms announced after the Third Plenum meeting will likely be Chinaís banks, which have an aggregate market capitalization of $850 billion. Though Chinese banks have enjoyed 28 percent compound annual earnings growth since 2009, their forward price-to-book values have dropped from 1.6x in 2009 to 0.9x today, according to Credit Suisseís China banks analyst Victor Wang, primarily due to growing investor concern about their deteriorating risk profiles. Wang believes the banking sector should be valued 28 percent higher than it is at present, and thinks the announced reforms will be a catalyst for at least some measure of multiple expansion. ìThere will be a lot of positive spillover from the other reforms into the financial sector,î he says. ìSome of the banks are trading at a meaningful discount-to-book value. That will be reduced soon.î Credit Suisse also expects the insurance, property, transportation, energy, materials and consumer discretionary sectors to outperform as a result of the announced reforms. Though in many cases the government has not laid out a precise road map or timetable for implementing changes, ìif even half (of the measures) go through, China will look very different five years from now than it does today,î Tao said on a recent call with investors. The Financialist has distilled the insights of Credit Suisseís China team to provide an overview of four of the most important reforms. Fiscal Reform Chinaís banks are likely to be the biggest winners from an initiative that will see the central government take over responsibility for major infrastructure projects and social welfare initiatives from local governments. As it stands, local governments are responsible for a disproportionate amount of spending (85 percent), while getting a relatively small piece of tax revenue (52 percent). To this point, provinces and municipalities have borrowed money through specially created ìlocal government financing vehiclesî to bridge that gap. In the process, Credit Suisse analysts point out, they have racked up as much as 17 trillion yuan ($2.8 trillion) in debt, a not-insubstantial portion of which has been backed by infrastructure projects that might not have made it through a cost-benefit analysis in the private sector. By taking some of that responsibility for spending away from local governments, the countryís leaders are clearly hoping to slow down the accumulation of debts that have made investors nervous about Chinese banks. Documents released after the meeting also call for creating an ìearly warning systemî to flag when local debt levels are approaching dangerous levels. In most places, that ìearly warning systemî is known as publicly available financial accounting, but to this point, thatís been a rarity among local Chinese borrowers. But that seems likely to change as well: Municipalities also received a formal go-ahead to raise money by issuing bonds, something that to this point has only existed on a small scale in pilot programs. Of course, fewer large, local-government-financed construction projects will also reduce annual GDP growth rates from just below 8 percent to the 5-6 percent range over the next five years, Tao says. But for investors nervous about the solvency of Chinese financial institutions, higher-quality and more transparent growth will surely prove preferable to what was threatening to become unsustainably rapid economic expansion. Reducing the Governmentís Role in the Market One primary message of the plenum was an intention to shift the balance of roles the free market and the government will play in organizing the Chinese economy going forward. The government, for example, is considering allowing markets to set prices on goods such as water, natural gas, power, transportation, telecommunications and oil. Wang points out that the government has also signaled a desire to give banks more latitude in the interest rates they are allowed to pay on deposits, which would force Chinese banks to compete with one another and potentially give households a chance to earn more interest on their savings as a result of that competition. The reform package also stressed the importance of moving to a market-based exchange rate and full convertibility of the renminbi, Chinaís currency. That follows already-announced plans to test financial deregulation and relax restrictions on cross-border currency flows in free trade zones in Shanghai and Qianhai, a district of the Hong Kong border city of Shenzen. Land Reform In one of the most clearly articulated reforms, the government announced plans to give Chinese farmers more leeway to sell, rent or mortgage their land. For decades, farmers have ìcollectivelyî owned rural land, with the result that they werenít allowed to sell it on the free market. Instead, local governments have acquired the land then sold it to developers for commercial, residential or industrial use, often at a healthy markup over the price paid to the farmers. (Some of that cash has then been used to invest in the local infrastructure projects mentioned above.) Changing the system so that farmers can directly sell their land will result in a reduction in revenues for cities and towns. But if farmers stand to profit from appreciating land values, they will also have more money to spend on discretionary items, boosting domestic consumption. With urbanization still occurring at a frenetic pace, rural landowners might also choose to use their cash to buy or rent a home in one of Chinaís fast-growing cities, bolstering demand for urban housing. To make that easier, Chinese leaders also announced reforms to the hukou household registration system, which has to this point effectively denied the healthcare and education to which city dwellers are entitled to migrants who leave the rural provinces en masse for jobs in the city. As part of the reform, residents will be allowed to move more freely from the country to small and medium-sized cities. Relaxing the One-Child Policy Chinaís contentious one-child policy was first put into effect to keep the countryís enormous population in check. Today, rural couples can have two children if the first is disabled or a girl, but urban couples can only have two children if both partners are themselves only children. The proposed reform will allow urban couples to have two children if just one parent is an only child. Credit Suisseís Dong Tao estimates that could result in an additional 1 to 2 million births on top of the current 16 million babies born each year. Eventually ñ give or take, say, 18 years ñ todayís relaxation of the one-child policy will have produced more workers and taxpayers to support Chinaís aging population. In the short term, though, the reform will be of most interest to manufacturers of baby food, toys, and other goods. Tao estimates that if parents who choose to add an extra child to the family spend just $500 more a month as a result, it will increase economic activity between $500 million to $1 billion a year. ìThis is the most effective stimulus program, in my view,î says Tao.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - A group of leading European and American banks will be fined a record 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion) by the¬†European Commission¬†for the rigging of interest-rate benchmarks, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters on Wednesday. The penalty is the biggest yet to be handed down to banks for rigging the benchmarks used to determine the cost of lending, one of the most brazen violations of conduct seen during the financial crisis. The banks to be fined are Citigroup &lt;C.N&gt;, Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;, Royal Bank of Scotland &lt;RBS.L&gt;, JPMorgan &lt;JPM.N&gt;,¬†Barclays¬†&lt;BARC.L&gt; and Societe Generale &lt;SOGN.PA&gt;, sources have said. "The total fine is 1.7 billion euros," the person said. If the figure is upheld, it would be the highest antitrust penalty ever imposed by the Commission, the EU's competition regulator. Commission spokesman for competition policy,¬†Antoine Colombani, declined to comment. The benchmarks involved are the¬†London¬†interbank offered rate Libor, the¬†Tokyo¬†interbank offered rate and the euro area equivalents. They are used to price hundreds of trillions of dollars in assets ranging from mortgages to derivatives. Unlike the six banks which admitted liability in return for a 10 percent reduction in their fines, Credit Agricole &lt;CAGR.PA&gt; has refused to settle and will likely face sanctions next year. A person familiar with the matter said HSBC &lt;HSBA.L&gt; has also contested the EU's proposed penalty. Both banks are expected to be formally charged on Wednesday. The EU's competition commissioner,¬†Joaquin Almunia, will announce the sanctions at a press conference at 1030 GMT. Authorities around the world have so far handed down a total of $3.7 billion in fines to UBS, RBS,¬†Barclays, Rabobank and broker¬†ICAP¬†for manipulating rates, while seven individuals face criminal charges. UBS paid a record fine of $1.5 billion late last year to the U.S. Department of Justice and the UK's¬†Financial Services Authority¬†for rate-rigging. For a factbox on the biggest fines handed down to banks. EU fines can reach up to 10 percent of a company's global turnover. UBS blew the whistle on the Libor and Tibor cases and will not be fined as a result.¬†Barclays¬†will escape a fine in the Euribor case because it alerted the Commission to the offence. (Reporting By Foo Yun Chee; writing by John O'Donnell; editing by Luke Baker)
REUTERSChinese buyers are known to be some of the world's most furious buyers of gold, a fact that gives comfort to gold bulls during these trying times. But even those Chinese buyers might be tiring out a little bit. From Global Times: Affluent dama, middle-aged Chinese women, are seen as one of the major groups of buyers for gold products."I couldn't wait to buy gold as many of my colleagues and friends had already made their purchases," one consumer was quoted by Xinhua News Agency as saying in April.However, many of these enthusiastic investors suffered losses as prices have dropped further since April.†"Their purchasing approach has become more cautious than before," Jiao noted.Recently, customers have been buying gold bars "in smaller amounts to avoid risks," said Jiao.Peng Lihong, a 30-year-old white-collar worker, told the Global Times Tuesday that she planned to buy 150 grams of gold bars, banking on the precious metal as a safe investment.But she said she would buy it in several batches, as gold prices could keep falling.
Matteo.Mazzoni at www.flickr.comThis is getting some attention today. The head of Japan's gigantic pension fund, which essentially makes the market in everything, doesn't think that the Bank of Japan will hit its inflation goals... at least not yet. From Bloomberg: ‚ÄúA 1 percent inflation rate may be possible, but that‚Äôs different to the Bank of Japan target,‚Äù Mitani said in an interview at GPIF‚Äôs Tokyo headquarters today. ‚ÄúWe haven‚Äôt seen real demand to pull prices up yet. Whether inflation will be stable is questionable.‚Äù There doesn't seem to be much doubt that the inflation picture in Japan is brightening. But whether it's durable and robust remains to be seen.
Sad gold. Another ugly day. It's getting closer to falling below that $1200 level, and dropping below its worst levels of the year. Kitco
Wikimedia CommonsAustralia just did something really sensible. From the Sydney Morning Herald: The federal government will be able to borrow as much money as it wants after Federal Treasurer Joe Hockey cut a deal with the Greens to dispense with the debt ceiling completely. Mr Hockey has just written to the Leader of the Federal Greens, Christine Milne, setting out the details of the agreement. It means the government will not have to ask the Parliament for permission whenever it wants to borrow money above a certain limit. This is so obviously a good idea, we hope politicians in Washington take it up first thing in 2014. The debt ceiling doesn't constrain borrowing. All it does is create the semi-frequent potential for systemic collapse. And it also creates an opportunity for politicians to be demagogues. Even if you're in favor of reducing the debt and the deficit, you should hate the debt ceiling since it offers politicians a cheap talking point without having to do anything. So yeah, it's just terrible. Congrats Australia! May we follow your lead soon! (Via @jordanbks)
On Monday we got manufacturing PMI reports from Europe. Today we get the same reports, but for the services industry. So how are things going? The below chart and table tell a classic story. There's modest growth overall, but look where it is. Germany is kicking ass. Everyone else is doing horribly, especially France, whose industries are hitting multi-month lows. Classic old story. Germany rules. Everyone else does not. 
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderWe've experienced something very strange so far this week: two down days in a row! We had losses both Monday and Tuesday. But for now, the "bleeding" (which hasn't been that severe at all) has stopped. US futures are up, and stocks are generally higher in Europe. Stocks did tumble hard in Japan, where the Nikkei fell 2%. Shanghai on the other hand gained 1.3%. This morning service PMI reports came out, and Europe was pretty ugly. Germany however reported much stronger data than everyone else.
