en.wikipedia.orgThe hottest idea to save the economy from another debt ceiling fight (and a potential default) is the Trillion Dollar Platinum Coin. In order to understand how it works, we first need a very quick lesson in how the government spends money. This is a super-crude version of it, but here's the gist: The Treasury Department has a bank account at The Federal Reserve, specifically the New York branch of the Federal Reserve. When the Treasury writes a check to a company (say a defense contracted owed $100 million) that check is "cashed" at the Fed. When the Treasury needs money (which is all the time) it sells bonds in an auction. The proceeds of those bonds go into the account. Okay, now there's this thing called the debt ceiling, which sets a maximum cap on the amount of debt that the US can carry at one time. Every time we come close to hitting it, the US has to ask Congress to raise the limit. In recent years, since the rise of the Tea Party, what used to be a mildly frustrating event has grown into a systemic economic threat. So where does the Trillion Dollar Platinum Coin fit in? In the section of the law which specifically relates to the Treasury's ability to create money (coins and bills) section K says this: ¬†(k) The Secretary may mint and issue platinum bullion coins and proof platinum coins in accordance with such specifications, designs, varieties, quantities, denominations, and inscriptions as the Secretary, in the Secretary‚Äôs discretion, may prescribe from time to time. In other words, when it comes to platinum coins, the Secretary (who is currently Tim Geithner) has discretion on the designs, specifications, quantities, and denominations of platinum coinage. So let's say, Tim Geithner decided to stamp out a $1 trillion coin. What does that accomplish? The idea is that after it was created, Geithner could walk it over to the Federal Reserve, and deposit it in the Treasury's bank account. Then the Treasury, rather than having to issue new debt (because remember, Congress hasn't raised the limit) can make sure its checks clear against this money. Voila, crisis averted! Now, that sounds all nice, but people have all kinds of objections upon hearing this idea. So we'll address them here. MYTH #1: This will cause massive hyperinflation. This is an understandable fear, because the idea of creating new money out of thin air to pay our debts brings to mind situations like Weimar and Zimbabwe, and trillion dollar bills being tossed about it in the streets. But this is not about using the coin to pay back our debts, it's staying within the law, while avoiding the technically nonsensical debt ceiling. Think about the mechanics, the trillion dollar coin goes to the Fed, but in terms of the real economy, government spending takes place exactly as normal. Now it is true that the Treasury might not be doing bond purchases at this time, and that this could leave more money in the system, that could heat up and cause inflation, but this is easily remedied, because the Fed has a gigantic pile of Treasuries it's sitting on that it could sell back into the open market to "sterilize" the government spending. The bottom line is: Because this trillion dollar coin isn't being used as "helicopter money" (money dropped directly into the economy) you don't get the inflationary effects you're used to seeing when you hear about governments creating money in large denominations. This is purely a technical fix for a bad situation. MYTH #2: The trillion dollar coin will destroy the dollar! This is pretty much the same as the first argument. What would destroy the dollar is if the government just started printing $1 trillion bills, declared them legal tender, and then dropped them from a helicopter onto cities. Soon, the buying power of a single dollar bill would be zilch. But alas, because the coin isn't a direct injection into the economy, but rather a stopgap that lets the government continue to spend on various services, you don't have that destructive effect. MYTH #3: If this idea is so great, then minting a $16 trillion dollar coin could just solve our debt problem! This line of reasoning ignores the point completely. People who say this (or say we should print a $100 trillion coin) are mistakenly thinking that the point of this exercise is to pay off our debts and get out of the hole. That's not it. Our debts are plenty manageable at current levels, and with interest rates the way the are. The point is to stay within the law, while getting around the technical problem of the debt ceiling. So there's no point to the $16 trillion coin or the $100 trillion coin, or anything else so absurd. This is not about having money to spend. This is about avoiding a legal crisis where the government had obligations to much (such as on its debt) but didn't have the authority to borrow and spend money. And furthermore, if we actually did try to eliminate our debts just by creating a coin, we would create the aforementioned inflation problem (via a massive expansion of money) and it would result in buyers less inclined to buy dollar assets. BOTTOM LINE: This won't create hyperinflation, and it's not the solution to all of our economic problems. It's just a way to stay within the law, while avoiding the debt ceiling nonsense. Is it silly? Of course it is. But what's sillier is a rich nation having a debate on whether it will pay what it owes, which is what the debt ceiling fight is all about. So in the face of such silliness, this unfortunately may be required. For more reading, see: There you go! Find out everything you need to know about the #MintTheCoin movement below: And if you want Obama to use this in the debt ceiling fight, then sign the petition &gt;
Earlier today we explained how more and more prominent and influential individuals are calling on The Treasury to avert the debt ceiling crisis by minting a trillion dollar coin. The Treasury, technically, can create platinum coins in any denomination. And so the theory is that rather than having a debt ceiling crisis, it would be better to have the Treasury deposit a trillion dollar platinum coin at the Federal Reserve, and have it credited to the government's bank account. Anyway, everyone's getting excited by it, and a petition has been launched at WhiteHouse.gov to get people to demand that Obama take this step. On Twitter, supporters are using the hashtag #mintthecoin to let their voices be heard. You can read our post here, which explains why there wouldn't be any severe ramifications.  Find out everything you need to know about the #MintTheCoin movement below: Click here to check out the petition &gt;
APThe 113th Congress convened for the first time Thursday, and re-elected†John Boehner†as House Speaker, putting to rest rumors that the Ohio Republican's position was in jeopardy.† Still, Boehner begins the new session with his power greatly diminished. Two years ago, the veteran Ohio Congressman took over as leader of the House Republican Majority as the toast of the GOP, riding in on the Tea Party wave of 2010. But Boehner took the helm of a party that was very different from the one he came up in. During the 112th Congress, the Speaker struggled to command discipline over a divided caucus that leaned far to the right on fiscal and social issues. Now, just 25 percent of Americans approve of Republicans in Congress, and just 31 percent have a favorable opinion of Boehner.† The Speaker's problems have only gotten worse since the 2012 election. In the two months since President Barack Obama's re-election victory, Boehner has been raked over the coals by conservatives, and his efforts to fight back the rebellion have mostly backfired. First, there was the outcry over his decision to "purge" four far-right deficit hawks from top House committees, a move that was widely viewed as a warning signal to get other GOP members to fall in line with a fiscal cliff deal. After the cliff negotiations fell apart, however, Boehner could not rally enough Republican votes to pass his "Plan B," and was forced to pull the vote.† The fiscal cliff debacle culminated in another embarrassing moment for Boehner. The majority of his caucus opposed the lack of spending cuts in the bill, but GOP leaders again could not rally enough support †for an amendment. While Boehner ultimately voted for the Senate deal, he lost the support of more than half of his caucus, including his top two deputies, House Majority John Boehner and Republican Whip Kevin McCarthy.† Boehner's terrible week really got bad on Wednesday though, when he faced a major bipartisan backlash over his decision to close the 112th Congress without a vote on a Hurricane Sandy relief bill. The tar-and-feathering reached a head when New Jersey Republican Gov. Chris Christie personally accused Boehner of holding up relief to "innocent victims" over political infighting.† To make matters worse, Christie defended Cantor, laying bare the simmering tensions between the top two Republicans in the House.† By Wednesday night, rumors started percolating that Boehner would step down from his post ó speculation that proved unfounded.†Boehner was narrowly re-elected with 220 votes, just over the 217-vote threshold needed to win the speakership.† But conservative members came closer to challenging Boehner than most Capitol insiders had expected, with hardliners putting up 9 out of the 16 defections needed to send voting to a second ballot. Several other †far-right members abstained from voting. The opposition to Boehner has been dismissed as disgruntledness from the fringe of the party. But Boehner won 241 Republican votes for speaker in the 112th Congress. Thursday's votes underscore a growing recalcitrance in the GOP caucus, a fact that could prove very problematic for Boehner as he goes into the next round of battles over deficits, spending, and taxes.†
Wikimedia CommonsThursday was an interesting day in the markets. It was a stereotypically "risk-on" day (stocks up, dollar down, etc.) until the Fed minutes came out. The minutes revealed (apparently to the market's surprise) that several members of the FOMC were reluctant to keep Quantitative Easing far beyond the middle of the year. It's debatable whether this counts as a "tightening" or not. After all, this doesn't change the Fed's 'Evans Rule' guidance, which indicates that easy money will be guaranteed at least until the economy hits a certain economic threshold, but any sign that the easing appetite is nearing its end is noteworthy, given the abnormality of the last few years. So the risk-on-move reversed itself and became a very un-QE day. Stocks fell. The dollar shot up. Gold fell. Yields at the long end of the curve started to rise. In light of this move, Citi's Steven Englander warns of a '1994'-like scenario. Before the Minutes were released, there was little anticipation or discussion on payrolls. Now that the Minutes are out and have raised market fears that the fed will pull back from ease earlier than anticipated, investors are worried about a repeat of 1994, when a surprise Fed tightening after a long period of easy money (by standards of those days) devastated fixed income markets. Then 10yr Treasury yields rose 170bps over a two month period.†††† In that light, you have to respect bond market skittishness, whenever 10yr Treasury yields go up by 21bps over three business days. We are not convinced this is what the Fed intended to convey. With fiscal tightening taking 1%+ off US GDP growth in 2013 and mortgage spreads versus Treasuries wider than the Fed hoped for, monetary conditions may not be as easy relative to underlying domestic demand as the Fed intended.†††† However, you have to respect the market response. And if payrolls come anywhere near close to a 200k handle we will very likely see further a further equity and fixed income sell off. In the chart you can see, the red line (10-year yields) exploded in 1994 after the blue line (the Fed Funds Rate) started to tick higher. FRED For what it's worth, in 1994 stocks gained, but it was the worst year among the heady boom years surrounding it. 
Gundlach sees a range-bound Treasury market. "On the positive side, you have rate repression by the Federal Reserve buying bonds which obviously keeps interest rates lower than they would otherwise would be," he said. "But on the other side in the Treasury market, you have no value to speak of from an investor's perspective." Although there may not be a bond bubble, with investors starved for yield, Gundlach predicts a potential bubble could form in credit risk as investors increase their leverage on riskier debt securities like junk bonds and emerging market debt. "The next move that will start happening in the financial industry is that funds will start leveraging credit risk to a greater extent," Gundlach said, "which will build up an overexposure potentially should the market turn against bonds later on." In the short-term, however, this increased leverage may actually be bullish for junk bonds, corporate bonds, emerging market debt and mortgage-backed securities as it brings higher prices and lower yields, he said. Gundlach predicts that both high-yield bonds and a portfolio of mortgage-backed securities could return about 6 percent in 2013. He forecast only a 3 percent total return for 10-year Treasurys and a 5 percent total return for the S&amp;P 500. (Read More: Boldest Predictions 2013) Although there may not yet be bond bubble, shares of Apple will continue to deflate. "I deeply believe Apple is headed to $425 a share," Gundlach said. "Not because I'm a bond guy or stock guy but because I'm a market guy. I've been around for a long time and I know that when something goes vertical like Apple did from $425 once the bubble pops it goes back down to the point at which it lifted off." Falling to $425 would mean a potential 22 percent drop in Apple shares.
BloombergThe stock market is up and the economy is growing. But one thing that continues to lag in the U.S. is job creation We recently had lunch with UBS U.S. Economists Maury Harris and Drew Matus.¬† The team has been repeatedly recognized as the most accurate economics team on Wall Street.¬† Bloomberg even named Harris one of the 50 most influential people in the world. Harris walked us through several charts that explained exactly what was going on in the economy.¬† He noted that one chart stood out due to its incredible predictive power. It was credit lending standards charted against private job creation. "Easier lending standards are usually associated with later employment growth," said Harris. As you can see below, lending standards have a long history of leading job creation. UBS Here's a second chart that reiterates that same message. UBS For now, lending standards appear to be on the easy side.¬† Hopefully, history will repeat itself and the U.S. will yield more jobs.
Markets just opened in Asia.¬† Japan, which was closed yesterday for a holiday, is playing catch up to the U.S. market, which spiked after a fiscal cliff deal was reached. Japan's Nikkei is up 2.8 percent right now.¬† The Nikkei is back to pre-earthquake levels, reports Nikkei.com. Nikkei.com Here's a longer term look at the Nikkei via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
These extraordinary declines weren't triggered by any improvement in the sorry state of state finances in the euro zone. Rather, they started when ECB President Mario Draghi declared in late July of last year that he would do ìwhatever it takesî to defend the euro, including buying the sovereign notes of euro zone governments. So far, the ECB hasnít had to do much to back up Draghiís declaration. His willingness to implement unlimited ìoutright monetary transactionsî (OMT) has worked wonders. Draghiís fairy dust also stopped the massive capital outflows out of Spain and Italy into Germany, as evidenced by the flattening of TARGET2 balances since last summer. Among the best-performing stock markets last year were the ones in the euro zone: Greece (33.4%), Germany (29.2), Ireland (17.1), and France (15.2). So far, the rally in European stock prices hasnít been validated by the regionís economic indicators with a couple of important exceptions. As Debbie discusses below, the euro zoneís manufacturing PMI index was 46.1 during December, little changed from November and well below 50. On the other hand, the M-PMI for the UK jumped to 51.4 last month from 49.2 during November and 47.9 in October. In addition, Germanyís Ifo business confidence index rebounded from 100.0 during October to 102.4 during December. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Live to Die Another Day? (1) The Person of the Years 2008-2012. (2) Donít fight the Feds. (3) Policymakersí mantra: ìWhatever it takes.î (4) Markets are driven by headlines, driven by Big Governments. (5) Bond yields dive in Europe. (6) Draghiís fairy dust. (7) Chinaís new leaders promoting same old policy of more urbanization. (8) Japanís new prime minister wants more fiscal spending and more monetary easing. (9) Another fiscal fist fight coming. (10) The winner will be Big Government. (More for subscribers.)
AP / Damian DovarganesA help wanted sign is posted on the front window of a clothing boutique in Los Angeles.The ADP report released earlier today said that the U.S. economy added 215,000 private sector jobs in December and beat analyst expectations by 140,000 jobs. Shortly after this report came out, economists revised their estimates for the jobs number that will be released tomorrow. For example, TD Securites, which is on the bearish end of the spectrum, raised their forecast from 82K to 107K. Deutsche bank, which is on the bullish end, raised their forecast from 150K to 190K. While the ADP report might have been part of the reason for this sudden optimism, reports from both economists had their doubts about the reliability of ADP's predictive power. According to TD Securities' Millan Mulraine, "We are inclined to fade ADP, especially in December. ADP reconciles its payrolls with the BLS and since ADP generally undercounts jobs in a rising market (the opposite in a falling market) this now tends to make the adjustment at year end a large overestimation of December BLS payrolls. Over the past two years, ADP undercounted jobs by an average of 115k relative to the BLS over the Jan-Nov period. This fuelled an overestimation of payrolls by an average 144k in the past two Decembers. In 2012 ADP is missing even more jobs, undercounting 177k jobs relative to the BLS. If anything, the ADP number is thematically consistent with our weak payroll expectation." According to Deutsche's Joseph LaVorgna, "ADP has had a mixed track record predicting changes in employment, and the survey compilation has changed producers; Moodyís Analytics now produces the data instead of Macroeconomic Advisors. Conceivably, the seasonal and bias adjustment factors are different, which means that we no longer have a consistent time series. Therefore, we are hesitant to fully adopt the information that ADP implies." So why did the two economists revise their jobs number estimates upwards? Both economists attributed their upward adjustments to the surprisingly strong Philly Fed index, the rebounding ISM manufacturing survey, which jumped the highest it's been since April 2012, and the downward trend in jobless claims.
YouTube via RTVEcuadorPedro Delgado, President of Ecuador's Central Bank and cousin of President Rafael Correa, resigned on December 19 after admitting that he had faked his economics degree. He used the falsified degree 22 years earlier to gain access into the prestigious Central American Institute of Business Administration, where he received his MBA. Enrique Herreria, a rival lawmaker, brought this information to light ñ as well as charges against Delgado that could carry a sentence between nine and 12 years. However, Delgado has now disappeared. He went to visit relatives in Miami for Christmas, promising to return after New Years', but has failed to do so. The U.S. government revoked Delgado's visa today after the Ecuadorean government asked for help bringing Delgado back to Quito for questioning. The Globe and Mail reports that Delgado doesn't exactly have a pristine history: ...Mr. Delgado was no candidate for the central bankersí hall of fame. He came under fire for an allegedly improper loan to an Argentine citizen and for his purchase of a Miami house with another questionable loan. He has denied these and other accusations of illegal financial dealings with Iran. Read More At TheGlobeAndMail.com.
Tory Burch is officially a billionaire. Her ex-husband Chris sold some of¬†his stake in her company last week, ending an acrimonious legal battle and securing Tory's status as a billionaire.¬† The women's apparel company she started in 2004 is now worth an estimated $3.5 billion, making her 28.3 percent stake worth over $1 billion, according to Forbes.¬† She could be worth even more if the company decides to go public, something that many industry people speculate could happen now that her legal battle is over.¬† Tory Burch LLC brought in $800 million in revenues in 2012, according to Forbes. By comparison, Michael Kors brought in $800 million in revenues in 2011, went public that year, and is now worth $10 billion.¬† Burch started her business in her kitchen 10 years ago. Today, she is famous for her Reva ballet flats, which are a staple among working women.¬† Congratulations, Tory! DON'T MISS:¬†How Tory Burch Created A $2 Billion Fashion Empire In Less Than A Decade &gt;
As Hugo Chavez's reign in Venezuela¬†appears to come to an end,¬†oil markets guru Stephen Schork says the 13-year president¬†deprived his country the fruits of the insane oil price surge¬†that's occurred since he came to power.¬† "Chavez‚Äôs march down the road to serfdom squandered the greatest oil rally in history," he writes. It all goes back to 2002, when a national strike led by the¬†PdVSA ‚Äî the country's state oil company, which had been an anti-Chavez entity ‚Äî caused production to drop from just below 3.0 MMb/d to just above 0.6 MMb/d.¬† In response, "Chavez purged PdVSA of talent and replaced it with political allies," Schork writes. Meanwhile, oil prices were on their way up, eventually¬†climbing 1,210%, to $131/b in 2008. But during the same period, monthly Venezuelan crude oil production declined on average by 0.19% per month.¬† Eventually production did recover somewhat, to 2.0 MMb/d. Too late, Schork says: The Venezuelan government has spent the last thirteen years butchering its oil cow. In the process, the ideologues in Caracas have ceded an even more valuable commodity, intellectual capital, in return‚Ä¶ a commodity that will continue to pay dividends long after Venezuela‚Äôs oil has run dry.
Joseph Stiglitz, two-time Nobel Prize winner and one of the most famous economists of our age, unleashed a verbal tirade against central bank independence at the C D Deshmukh Memorial Lecture today in India, reports The Times of India. Ironically, he spoke on the heels of Duvvuri Subbaro, governor of the Reserve Bank of India, who introduced him ‚Äì after arguing for increased autonomy for India's central bank. According to Stiglitz, central bank independence is both overrated, since it does not necessarily correlate with better economic performance, and unfeasible: "[The crisis] has shown that one of the central principles advocated by Western central bankers- the desirability of central bank independence-was questionable at best‚Ä¶In the crisis, countries with less independent central banks-China, India, and Brazil-did far, far better than countries with more independent central banks, Europe and the United States. There is no such thing as truly independent institutions. All public institutions are accountable, and the only question is to whom.‚Äù He believes that in the run-up to the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve was accountable only to Wall Street, and singles out New York Fed President William Dudley for some especially harsh criticism. He claims Dudley was "a model of bad governance" because of his inherent conflict of interest: he bailed out the very banks he was supposed to regulate ‚Äì the very same banks that enabled him to gain his position. ¬†As Reuters reports, central bank independence is coming under siege all over the world. The effort is undoubtedly led by newly elected Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who is leaning heavily on the Bank of Japan to embrace quantitative easing to combat deflation, devalue the yen, and spur growth.
Wikimedia CommonsThis is really thrilling. An arcane idea that started on finance blogs in the summer of 2011-- that Tim Geithner should mint a trillion dollar platinum coin to avert the debt ceiling -- is now seriously taking off. The premise of the idea is this: Although the Treasury can't just create money out of thin air to pay its bills, there is a technicality in the law that says the Treasury has special discretion to create platinum coins of any denomination, and the thinking is that Tim Geithner could make the coin and walk it over to the Federal Reserve and deposit it in the Treasury's bank account. The first blog to really promote the idea was Cullen Roche's Pragmatic Capitalist. We jumped on it soon thereafter, as did others. Of course, once the debt ceiling was solved, people forgot about it. But there's a new debt ceiling looming, and this time, LOTS more people are talking about it. We noted our surprise back in early December that an actual 3rd party research firm brought up the idea. Now it's going even more viral. Paul Krugman discussed it yesterday. In an interview with Capitol New York, Representative Jerry Nadler came out in favor of the solution (Nadler has an above-average understanding of economics in our experience). Josh Barro at Bloomberg is now endorsing it, and that's spread a huge conversation about it among DC journalists and policy folks on twitter. Barro explains why it's the perfect "solution" to the debt ceiling fiasco: Hitting the debt ceiling isn't an option. It's no way to run the country, and Republicans know that. So, a debt-ceiling increase shouldn't count as a "concession," and it's nutty for Obama to have to give substantive policy ground to get one. Monetizing deficits through direct presidential control of the currency, in lieu of borrowing, is also no way to run a country. It's silly, and it's perfectly legal. Agreeing not to do so is therefore the ideal "concession" for Obama to offer in return for Republicans agreeing to end the threat of a debt-default crisis. This is basically the right way to think about it. Yes it's silly to think of funding yourself with a coin, but it's even sillier to think that defaulting might be a good idea, so you might as well do it. Now quick detour into economics that must be addressed: Lots of people, when they hear the idea, say one of two things: Neither of these are legitimate rejoinders. This would not result in massive inflation, because we wouldn't have a gigantic injection of new money into "the system." That is only achievable through massive spending beyond which the economy can handle. But this loophole would in no way let the government spend beyond which Congress has allocated through the budget. And the point about the $100 trillion coin misses the point as well. The current economic constraint is not what we can raise or spend, but rather a dumb law (the debt ceiling) that we would like to get around legally. A $1 trillion coin accomplishes this goal just as easily as a $100 trillion coin does. Remember, the constraint isn't money, the constraint is law. So yes, this is very thrilling, and we hope Obama puts an end to this nonsense tomorrow by unveiling the coin. Now the question everyone is asking is: Important Q ‚Äî whose face would be put on the $1t coin? Update: Since this post was first published, the talk has EXPLODED. HuffingtonPost has a huge front-page splash dedicated to the concept. And there's a White House petition demanding Obama mint the coin. And the hashtag #MintTheCoin has gone viral on Twitter. Even a prominent German newspaper is covering the movement. And find out everything you need to know about this #MintTheCoin movement below:
The minutes from the December FOMC meeting, released this afternoon, contained an interesting twist. Even though the Fed announced a particularly dovish policy shift with the introduction of the "Evans rule" at the conclusion of the December meeting, the minutes revealed an increasingly hawkish tone on the central bank's quantitative easing programs. The Evans rule†ties the Fed's interest rate guidance to quantitative labor market thresholds ñ specifically, a 6.5 percent unemployment rate. In other words, the Committee won't consider raising interest rates until headline unemployment falls to 6.5 percent from its current level at 7.7 percent. Most project that unemployment won't fall to 6.5 percent until the end of 2014 or sometime in 2015; thus, the Fed's accommodative stance ñ at least with regard to interest rate policy ñ is expected to be the status quo for a long time yet. The minutes from the December meeting, however, suggest that the Federal Reserve is becoming increasingly more hawkish when it comes to the central bank's other stimulus tool of choice ñ asset purchases, also known as quantitative easing. Below is the key passage from the minutes: Various members stressed the importance of a continuing assessment of labor market developments and reviews of the program's efficacy and costs at upcoming FOMC meetings. In considering the outlook for the labor market and the broader economy, a few members expressed the view that ongoing asset purchases would likely be warranted until about the end of 2013, while a few others emphasized the need for considerable policy accommodation but did not state a specific time frame or total for purchases. Several others thought that it would probably be appropriate to slow or to stop purchases well before the end of 2013, citing concerns about financial stability or the size of the balance sheet. One member viewed any additional purchases as unwarranted. This language lends to the argument that the Fed may actually be moving toward tightening policy.† If that is the case, you can bet the upcoming employment-related data releases are going to be watched a lot more closely now that the Fed has essentially said it could consider scaling back asset purchases as soon as this year. Deutsche Bank's Chief U.S. Economist, Joe LaVorgna, summed it up nicely in a brief note following the release this afternoon: "In other words, this should significantly amplify the financial market's sensitivity to upcoming economic data, particularly if we witness a spell of robust economic reports which could bring into question the perception of the Fed's exit strategy." Tomorrow is a big one ñ the monthly nonfarm payrolls report, where we get an update on the unemployment rate ñ is due out at 8:30 AM ET. Follow the release LIVE on Money Game &gt;
YouTube/ConservativeNewMediaBullish jobs data collided with hawkish Fed comments. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,391, -21.1, -0.1 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,459, -3.0, -0.2 percentNASDAQ: 3,100, -11.6, -0.3 percent And now the top stories:
Here is a quick time-lapse video of some of the major comparative patterns we introduced and utilized in the markets in 2012. We tend to gravitate towards comparatives of influential asset quality - because of the wider kinetic impacts they may exert and extrapolate on the overall market structure. We tend to approach charts more through the visual prism of¬†impressions¬†of price and momentum - than classic technical analysis per se. While we respect and benefit from those methodologies, we have personally found greater intuitive insights from removing some of the more rigid guidelines of that particular school of thought.¬†  Thanks for following - and we look forward to another great year at Market Anthropology.¬†
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Market Advance Has Been Short Covering (Gluskin Sheff) The stock market had its worst post-Christmas performance since 1937, and the biggest rally on record while kicking off the new year. "The myth is that we are now seeing the clouds part to the extent that cash will be put to work. Not so fast. It is very likely that much of the market advance has been short-covering and some abatement in selling activity." The market can celebrate that the worst impact of the fiscal cliff has been avoided but the spending cuts are still up for debate. "So as equities now retest the cycle highs, it would be a folly to believe that we will not experience recurring setbacks and heightened volatility along the way. This makes for a terrific backdrop for nimble trading but beyond that long-only strategies would be well advised to hedge with calls on volatility given how cheap this insurance is right now." The Three Scenarios For The Political Economy Of 2013 (Project Syndicate) The link between politics and economics will continue in 2013, according to PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian.† "There are three scenarios: good economics and effective politics provide the basis for a growing and more cooperative global economy; bad economics interact with dysfunctional politics to ruin the day; or the world muddles through, increasingly unstable, as a tug of war between economics and politics plays out, with no clear result or direction. Part of the answer depends on what happens in three countries in particular ñ China, Germany, and the US. Their economic and political stability is essential to the well-being of a world economy that has yet to recover fully from the 2008 global financial crisis. Current indications, albeit incomplete, suggest that the three will continue to anchor the global economy in 2013. That is the good news. The bad news is that their anchor may remain both tentative and insufficient to restore the level of growth and financial stability to which billions of people aspire." Sir John Templeton's 16 Rules For Investment (Business Insider)  Legendary British investor Sir John Templeton had 16 rules of investment. As we step into 2013 here are a few to keep in mind. Invest, don't trade or speculate, buy low, buy value not market trends or the economic outlook, and aggressively monitor your investments. The Biggest Risk To Commodities This Year Could Be A Violent Turn In The U.S. Dollar (Business Insider) Deutsche Bank's Michael Lewis and Christina McGlone expect commodities to rebound in 2013. There are however two risks to this view, the first is a significant improvement in the economy, the second is a violent turn in the U.S. dollar.† "Historically US dollar cycles persist for an average of seven years, hence the current bear cycle in the US dollar is in its 11th year, and consequently should be viewed as long in the tooth. This has important implications for commodity markets not least given the growing correlation between risk assets since the onset of the financial crisis. Turns in the US dollar following bear cycles can be violent. For example, when the dollar turned in July 1980, the dollar appreciated by just over 40% within the following 12 month period.† Given the ongoing weakness in the US basic balance we expect a turn in the dollar is some way off and that the US dollar will display weakness in the first half of this year." Bloomberg, Business Insider † Advisors Can Find Opportunities In 401(k) Plans This Year (The Wall Street Journal) Retirement plans with $10 million or less in assets offer great opportunities for advisors.† "As stocks keep swooping through changing market cycles, more advisers are reaching for relatively smoother waters in defined contribution retirement plans.† Financial advisers with years of experience and strong internal support systems clearly have an edge in gaining new business, says Henry Yoshida, co-founder of the Maresh Yoshida 401k Group. Along with other retirement specialists at several other established firms, the ex-Merrill Lynch wealth adviser predicts that some of the biggest growth opportunities in 2013 are likely to be through lower-to-mid-tier plan sponsors." 90 Years Of Crises, Correlations, And Stock Market Volatility (JP Morgan Funds)  JP Morgan Funds put out a great chart that shows stock market volatility and correlations among stocks since the Great Depression. The chart clearly shows that correlations among stocks increase during periods of high volatility. JP Morgan Funds
Next month's Vanity Fair is going to include a deep dive in to the world of late billionaire private equity investor, gentleman and philanthropist Teddy Forstmann. Naturally, we can't wait, and to ramp up anticipation, Vanity Fair has released some juicy details about a man who was no stranger to big names and scandal. During his life-long bachelorhood, Forstmann was connected to fascinating women like Princess Diana and model Elizabeth Hurley. In his last years, though, he was connected to celebrity chef Padma Lakshmi, and according to Vanity Fair, he wanted her daughter with billionaire venture capitalist Adam Dell to be raised as his own regardless of who the father was. Lakshmi reportedly started seeing Dell while she and Forstmann's relationship was on ice. When she took a paternity test, found out the child was in fact Dell's and decided to tell him, Forstmann felt "heartbroken." From Vanity Fair: Forstmann was very bitter about ‚Äúlosing‚Äù the baby to Dell‚ÄîCohen describes him as ‚Äúheartbroken‚Äù over the whole thing, and he could be sensitive about the topic. At one point in Cohen‚Äôs interviews, a fashion-designer acquaintance approached their table at a restaurant, casually asking Forstmann, ‚ÄúTeddy, how‚Äôs your baby?‚Äù Forstmann, who icily replied ‚Äújust fine‚Äù to her at the time, later flew into a profane rage. ‚ÄúMy baby? She knows very well it‚Äôs not my baby. The b*tch! The f*cking b*tch! The g*dd*mn b*tch!‚Äù Forstmann died in 2011 of brain cancer. He was 71 and had two adopted sons.
Wikimedia CommonsMorgan Creek Capital Management, an investment management firm with offices around the world, released its 2013 market outlook, entitled "Peering Over the Precipice." The presentation was delivered at the North Carolina Bankers Association yesterday. The slideshow presentation focuses on the three big risks facing the market: the Euro crisis, possibility of a downturn in China, and fallout from the Fiscal Cliff. Of these three, the firm is most bearish on the U.S. economy -- to the point of predicting a recession starting in April. Morgan Creek believes that U.S. equities are overvalued, and notes that bear markets generally perform poorly in a post-election year. The team is most bullish on precious metals and the Nikkei. In particular, they believe monetary easing will boost the Japanese market, and have a short-term target of $2,000 for gold.
According to preliminary estimates from the New York City Independent Budget Office (IBO), New York City taxpayers are going to be shelling out a little more than $3.5 billion now that a fiscal cliff deal has been struck. Most of this is going to come out of the pockets of the cityís disproportionately large population of the very affluent, or those who make more than $500K. According to these stats, if you live in NYC and make between $250K-$500K, your tax bill is only going up by about $303. New York City Independent Budget Office Even though these new fiscal cliff taxes are supposed to affect those making $400K and up, New Yorkers making closer to the $400K number are probably not going to be affected all that much. Thatís because already steep city and state taxes cut into the income taxable by the federal government, said Michael Jacobs, who put these stats together for the IBO. BUT, the limits on itemized deductions and personal exemptions that were phased out between 2006 and completely eliminated by 2010 are coming back, and are going to affect those making more than $250K-$300K adjusted gross income (depending on whether you file as a single person or as a couple). And, as James B. Stewart, a professor of business journalism at Columbia, explained in a column he wrote for the NYTimes last December, this is going to disproportionately affect affect ìtaxpayers in higher brackets who rely on earned income as opposed to investment income or an inheritance, who give to charity and live in a high-tax state(s)î like New York or California. So if you filed a bunch of such deductions in 2012, watch out, because your taxable income is about to go up.
Alan Levenson/Getty ImagesWe can't wait for this. The February issue of Vanity Fair will include The Ghost In The Gulf Stream, an intimate look at private equity investor Teddy Forstmann. He was a black jack player, an art collector, a philanthropist, and a larger-than-life figure during Wall Street's infamous leveraged buy-out era. In fact, he plays a role in Barbarians at the Gate, the infamous story of RJR Nabisco's massive leveraged buy-out. Forstmann died of brain cancer in 2011 at age 71. Before his death however, Vanity Fair writer Rich Cohen was taking on a task that other writers before him had found themselves unequal to ‚Äî acting as ghost-writer for Forstmann's life story. What Cohen took from that experience was the portrait of a man who felt alone in crowds of people, whose conception of himself was different from his appearance to others, and who very much felt like the paterfamilias to everyone around him. From Vanity Fair's preview. Cohen traveled to Paris, London, Southampton, and New York with Forstmann. While watching the French Open from IMG‚Äôs box at center court Forstmann spots a pretty girl. ‚ÄúWhat do you think if I went over and just told her, Hey, my name is Forstmann, and I happen to own the biggest modeling agency in the world.‚Äù Soon after, he decides that he should write her a note and that Cohen should take it to her. Cohen thinks better of it. ‚ÄúYeah, yeah, you‚Äôre right. Stupid idea,‚Äù Forstmann says, then he gets on the phone to New York. When a man in the adjoining box hushes him, Forstmann replies ‚ÄúYou are completely correct, sir. What I‚Äôm doing is incredibly rude. I apologize.‚Äù He resumes his phone conversation, saying, ‚ÄúOh, I don‚Äôt know. Some f**king British assh*le in the next box.‚Äù In London, Forstmann tries to get Cohen to play blackjack with him at a private gambling club where the bets go into thousands of pounds. ‚ÄúI‚Äôll play for you,‚Äù Forstmann says when Cohen refuses, ‚Äúand your wife‚Äîwhat‚Äôs her name?‚Äù Jessica, Cohen tells him. ‚ÄúGood, I‚Äôll play for Jessica too. And the kids.‚Äù Cohen recalls watching Forstmann at the table: ‚ÄúIt was like seeing into his brain, his talent at work, the same mechanism that always discovered the hidden value. I was watching an artist.‚Äù When he finishes, he drops a pile of chips into Cohen‚Äôs hand, saying: ‚ÄúYou and your kids lost, but your wife, she did pretty well.‚Äù Rest in peace, Teddy. We can't wait to read more about your life. And if you're not familiar with Forstmann's incredible life and career, click here&gt;
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tPDLX0koXFsInvestors don't have to disclose their short positions on stocks.¬† So while a review of SEC filings can give you an idea of what investors like, it's hard to tell what they hate. SunGard, one of the largest financial technology companies in the world has a product called Astec Analytics, which tracks securities lending data ‚Äî a proxy for short selling. They shared their data with us, breaking down the most shorted stocks of 2012 down sector by sector. The stocks are ranked by the total amount borrowing fees collected. SunGard then picked the most interesting stocks from the top end of the list of stocks shorted by volume. There aren't too many shockers in the top spots ‚Äî Research In Motion and Facebook both get nods ‚Äî but the runners up may catch you by surprise. Some of them are extremely expensive to borrow (as you know short sellers borrow stocks, they don't purchase them until the end of the trade) ‚Äî SunGard included the cost to borrow these stocks over a year ("annualized borrowing cost") to give you sense of how big a bet investors were willing to make on these companies.
Big monetary policy news: Fresh minutes from the Federal Reserve show that there were "several" members who favored an end to QE sometime in 2013. Here's the exact line from the minutes: Several others thought that it would probably be appropriate to slow or to stop purchases well before the end of 2013, citing concerns about financial stability or the size of the balance sheet. One member viewed any additional purchases as unwarranted. The market has ticked lower on the news, and gold is diving. The timing of this hawkish turn is quite ironic. It was at this meeting that the Fed adopted the "Evans Rule," a policy framework which indicates that the Fed will not tighten until the unemployment rate gets to around 6.5%, or inflation expectations get to around 2.5%. This guidance was seen as a big achievement of dovish monetary policy wonks, who have been pushing a long time for the Fed to have clear guidance thresholds that heavily weight unemployment. But even before today's Fed minutes, there were growing murmurs about the Fed moving marginally toward tightening. As we wrote on December 20, you could argue that the Fed marginally tightened, because whereas the previous guidance indicated no end to easing until 2015, at current trajectories, we could hit the "Evans Rule" thresholds by the end of 2014. So now we have more evidence of a tilt. Just when the Fed gets to a policy that the doves have been pushing for a long time, the Fed gives off its first real signals of an eventual return to normal policy.
Gold down after Fed minutes. 
News that "several" members at the latest Fed meeting favored ending QE sometime in 2013 has sent the market lower. Check out our full coverage here. Here's the S&amp;P dropping. 
APThe Federal Reserve just released the minutes from its December FOMC meeting, and they strike a surprisingly hawkish tone. Markets are giving up gains¬†on the news, and the dollar is surging. Gold is also falling. Click here for updates &gt; Several FOMC members backed a halt or cut to the Fed's open-ended quantitative easing program well before the end of 2013. Furthermore, a few on the Committee wanted quantitative easing until about the end of 2013. In parallel, many FOMC participants also noted the recent drop in consumer sentiment, which has been a big economic story as of late. These developments are of interest because the Federal Reserve announced a highly dovish policy shift at the conclusion of the meeting in December: the introduction of the Evans rule. The Evans rule entails a shift to quantitative, target-based interest rate guidance instead of the central bank's traditional calendar-based guidance. Specifically, the Fed is using a 6.5 percent unemployment rate and a 2.5 percent inflation rate as "guideposts" for when the Committee may deem it acceptable to consider raising interest rates again. Guidance on quantitative easing need not necessarily line up exactly with guidance on interest rate policy, but the divergence is interesting. Andrew Wilkinson, Chief Economic Strategist at Miller Tabak, wrote in an email to clients following the release of the FOMC minutes: The minutes have added a fresh degree of uncertainty into the investment climate, which is likely to mean a steeper yield curve. But equity investors should take heart from the fact that the Fed‚Äôs perception is qualified on an improving economy. This is where communications and bond-buying policies start to clash. You can‚Äôt, as they say, have your cake and eat it. Below is the full release: A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, December 11, 2012, at 11:00 a.m. and continued on Wednesday, December 12, 2012, at 8:30 a.m.PRESENT:Ben Bernanke, ChairmanWilliam C. Dudley, Vice ChairmanElizabeth DukeJeffrey M. LackerDennis P. LockhartSandra PianaltoJerome H. PowellSarah Bloom RaskinJeremy C. SteinDaniel K. TarulloJohn C. WilliamsJanet L. Yellen James Bullard, Christine Cumming, Charles L. Evans, Esther L. George, and Eric Rosengren, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, and Charles I. Plosser, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Dallas, Minneapolis, and Philadelphia, respectively William B. English, Secretary and EconomistDeborah J. Danker, Deputy SecretaryMatthew M. Luecke, Assistant SecretaryMichelle A. Smith, Assistant SecretaryScott G. Alvarez, General CounselSteven B. Kamin, EconomistDavid W. Wilcox, Economist David Altig, Thomas A. Connors, Michael P. Leahy, William Nelson, David Reifschneider, and William Wascher, Associate Economists Simon Potter, Manager, System Open Market Account Nellie Liang, Director, Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, Board of Governors Jon W. Faust, Special Advisor to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors James A. Clouse and Stephen A. Meyer, Deputy Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Maryann F. Hunter, Deputy Director, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Ellen E. Meade and Joyce K. Zickler, Senior Advisers, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Eric M. Engen, Thomas Laubach, and David E. Lebow, Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; Michael T. Kiley,1 Associate Director, Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, Board of Governors Joshua Gallin, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; Jane E. Ihrig, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Beth Anne Wilson, Deputy Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Jennifer E. Roush, Senior Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Marie Gooding, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta Loretta J. Mester and Daniel G. Sullivan, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and Chicago, respectively Troy Davig, Mark E. Schweitzer, Geoffrey Tootell, Christopher J. Waller, and Kei-Mu Yi, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Kansas City, Cleveland, Boston, St. Louis, and Minneapolis, respectively Mary Daly, Group Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco Evan F. Koenig, Lorie K. Logan, Julie Ann Remache, Alexander L. Wolman, and Nathaniel Wuerffel, Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Dallas, New York, New York, Richmond, and New York, respectively Argia M. Sbordone, Assistant Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of New York Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance SheetThe Manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets during the period since the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) met on October 23-24, 2012. He also reported on System open market operations over the intermeeting period, including the ongoing reinvestment into agency-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities (MBS) of principal payments received on SOMA holdings of agency debt and agency-guaranteed MBS; the operations related to the maturity extension program authorized at the June 19-20, 2012, FOMC meeting; and the purchases of MBS authorized at the September 12-13, 2012, FOMC meeting. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Open Market Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. The Committee considered a proposal to extend its liquidity swap arrangements with foreign central banks past February 1, 2013. All but one member approved the following resolution: "The Federal Open Market Committee directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to extend the existing temporary dollar liquidity swap arrangements with the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank through February 1, 2014. In addition, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to extend the existing temporary foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements with the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank through February 1, 2014."Mr. Lacker dissented because of his opposition to arrangements that support Federal Reserve lending in foreign currencies, which he viewed as amounting to fiscal policy. Options for the Continuation of Asset PurchasesThe staff reviewed several options for purchasing longer-term securities after the planned completion at the end of the month of the maturity extension program. The presentation focused on the potential effects for the U.S. economy, based in part on simulations of a staff macroeconomic model, and for the Federal Reserve's balance sheet and income of continuing to buy MBS and longer-term Treasury securities over various time frames. In their discussion of the staff presentation, some participants asked about the possible consequences of the alternative purchase programs for the expected path of Federal Reserve remittances to the Treasury Department, and a few indicated the need for additional consideration of the implications of such purchases for the eventual normalization of the stance of monetary policy and the size and composition of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. Staff Review of the Economic SituationThe information reviewed at the December 11-12 meeting indicated that economic activity continued to increase at a moderate pace in recent months. Employment expanded further, and the unemployment rate declined slightly, on balance, from September to November but was still elevated. Consumer price inflation slowed as consumer energy costs fell, while measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable. Private nonfarm employment increased at a slightly faster rate in October and November than in the third quarter, but government employment decreased somewhat. The unemployment rate declined to 7.7 percent in November, and the labor force participation rate in that month was at the same level as in the third quarter. The relatively large share of workers employed part time for economic reasons trended up a bit, on net, while the share of long-duration unemployment in total unemployment was essentially flat and remained elevated. Indicators of firms' job openings and hiring plans were little changed on balance. Initial claims for unemployment insurance were boosted in early November by the effects of Hurricane Sandy but returned within weeks to a level that was about the same as before the hurricane. Manufacturing production declined in October, as output was held down at the end of the month by the disruptions and damage caused by Hurricane Sandy; the rate of manufacturing capacity utilization also declined. Automakers' schedules indicated that the pace of motor vehicle assemblies would rise somewhat in the coming months. Broader indicators of factory output, such as the diffusion indexes of new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, continued to be subdued at levels consistent with only small gains in production in the near term. Real personal consumption expenditures rose at a modest pace in the third quarter, but spending declined in October, likely in response in part to some disruptions caused by the hurricane. Probably reflecting those disruptions, sales of light motor vehicles fell in October but then increased notably in November. Some factors that tend to influence household spending became less supportive: Real disposable personal income moved up only slightly in the third quarter and declined in October. Moreover, consumer sentiment fell back in early December to about its level during the summer. In contrast, household net worth increased in the third quarter, partially a result of higher equity and home values. Conditions in the housing market continued to improve gradually, but construction activity was still at a low level, restrained by the considerable inventory of foreclosed and distressed homes and the tight credit standards for mortgages. Starts and permits of new single-family homes were essentially flat in October after rising significantly in the preceding month. Starts of new multifamily units rose in October, although permits declined somewhat following their brisk increase in the previous month. Meanwhile, home prices advanced further and sales of existing homes continued to expand, but new home sales were little changed. Real business expenditures on equipment and software decreased in the third quarter. In October, nominal new orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft moved up a little, but shipments of these capital goods edged down and the level of orders remained below that of shipments. In addition, other forward-looking indicators of equipment investment by firms, such as surveys of business conditions and capital spending plans, were still subdued. Real business expenditures for nonresidential structures also decreased in the third quarter, although nominal construction spending by firms increased in October. Inventories in most industries appeared to be roughly aligned with sales in recent months. Real federal government purchases increased markedly in the third quarter, led by a sharp rise in defense spending. However, data for nominal federal spending in October pointed toward a decline in real defense expenditures in the fourth quarter. Real state and local government purchases were little changed in the third quarter. State and local government payrolls decreased on net over October and November, and nominal construction spending by these governments edged lower in October. The U.S. international trade deficit widened in October, and both exports and imports fell sharply from the previous month. The decrease in exports was widespread across categories, while the reduction in imports importantly reflected lower purchases of consumer goods and non-oil industrial supplies, although petroleum imports increased. Consumer prices moved up more slowly in October than in the preceding few months, primarily because of a small decline in energy prices after several months of large gains. Moreover, survey data indicated that retail gasoline prices decreased further in November. Consumer food prices rose a little faster in October, as the effects of last summer's drought started to show through at the retail level. Increases in consumer prices excluding food and energy remained subdued. Near-term inflation expectations from the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers edged up, on balance, in November and early December, while longer-term inflation expectations in the survey were little changed and continued to run within the relatively narrow range that has prevailed for some time. Measures of labor compensation indicated that gains in nominal wages remained slow. Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector increased slightly over the year ending in the third quarter, and with a moderate rise in productivity, unit labor costs were essentially unchanged. The employment cost index rose only a bit faster than the measure of compensation per hour over the same period. In October and November, increases in average hourly earnings for all employees were small. Economic activity abroad remained subdued, especially in the advanced foreign economies. The euro-area economy contracted further in the third quarter, and consumer and business confidence remained low. Economic activity in Japan also declined in the third quarter, and a sharp drop in exports restrained economic growth in Canada. In emerging market economies, by contrast, recent data on exports and manufacturing improved somewhat. In most countries, inflation was still well contained, and monetary policy abroad generally remained accommodative. Staff Review of the Financial SituationU.S. financial conditions were little changed, on balance, over the intermeeting period. In early November, market concerns about the fiscal outlook and ongoing federal budget negotiations seemed to intensify, prompting a notable reduction in equity prices and yields on Treasury securities. But these concerns reportedly eased somewhat over subsequent weeks, and the initial move in equity prices was reversed. In contrast, yields on intermediate- and long-term nominal Treasury securities declined, on net, perhaps reflecting some increase in safe-haven demand associated with concerns about the potential economic effects of a substantial tightening in fiscal policy. Indicators of inflation compensation derived from nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities showed mixed changes and remained within the ranges observed over recent years. The expected path of the federal funds rate derived from overnight index swap rates flattened somewhat, on balance, over the intermeeting period, as longer-dated rates declined. Market-based measures of uncertainty about the path of the federal funds rate beyond the near term also declined. The survey of primary dealers conducted prior to the December meeting showed that they expected the FOMC to maintain purchases of longer-term securities after year-end at about the current pace of $85 billion per month. Conditions in unsecured and secured short-term dollar funding markets remained stable, on net, over the intermeeting period, with reports of only limited disruptions to trading or operations following Hurricane Sandy. Yields on Treasury bills maturing beyond the year-end were noticeably lower than those on shorter-term bills; market participants pointed to the anticipated ending of the Federal Reserve's maturity extension program and the expiration of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's unlimited insurance of noninterest-bearing transaction deposits at the end of the year as factors contributing to this pattern of yields. In the December Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms, respondents reported little change in credit terms over the past three months for important classes of dealer counterparties. While respondents reported that the use of leverage by counterparties had remained basically unchanged, they noted greater demand for funding of various types of securitization products. Broad U.S. equity price indexes edged up, on net, over the intermeeting period, while equity prices of large domestic banks decreased a little. Nevertheless, the credit default swap spreads of most large domestic bank holding companies continued to move lower. Option-implied volatility for the S&amp;P 500 index over the next month declined moderately, on balance, while measures of equity market volatility for longer maturities remained above their historical averages, excluding the financial crisis period. Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds were little changed over the intermeeting period, and their spreads over yields on comparable-maturity Treasury securities widened modestly. Yields on speculative-grade corporate bonds fell to historical lows, and their spreads decreased slightly. The pace of bond issuance by nonfinancial firms increased further in October and November after rising robustly in the third quarter, as some firms reportedly sought to issue new debt before the end of the year. Commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) loans outstanding also expanded notably in October and November. Nonfinancial commercial paper outstanding increased somewhat in November following a small decline in October. In the syndicated leveraged loan market, institutional issuance surged in October before subsiding somewhat in November, although it remained at a still-robust level. Financial conditions in the commercial real estate (CRE) sector were still generally strained amid elevated vacancy and delinquency rates. However, prices for CRE properties continued to increase in the third quarter, and issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities remained at a solid pace in the current quarter. Residential mortgage rates declined modestly over the intermeeting period, largely in line with the decline in MBS yields. Refinancing expanded a bit further in October and November. House prices continued to increase despite a rise in the proportion of properties sold through foreclosures or short sales. The share of existing mortgages that were seriously delinquent fell in the third quarter but remained elevated. Consumer credit continued to expand briskly in September, led by sizable increases in auto and student loans. Revolving credit decreased in September but was little changed, on net, over the previous few months. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities continued to rise at a strong pace. Delinquency rates on consumer credit generally remained low, with the notable exception of student loans. Bank credit was about flat, on balance, over October and November. Growth in C&amp;I loans and consumer loans was offset by a decline in banks' residential real estate loans. The November Survey of Terms of Business Lending indicated some easing in loan pricing and terms. M2 growth was rapid in October but slowed in November. Liquid deposits continued to grow at a strong pace, as yields available on alternative money market instruments remained low. Reserves increased over the intermeeting period, in part because of the settlement of the ongoing MBS purchases announced at the September FOMC meeting. In many foreign financial markets, asset prices fluctuated as sentiment regarding negotiations over both the U.S. fiscal situation and official support for vulnerable euro-area countries shifted during the period. Spreads on Greek sovereign bonds over comparable German bunds fell, on balance, reflecting in part the agreement by European officials and the International Monetary Fund to grant further aid to Greece. However, spreads on Italian and Spanish bonds were little changed on balance over the period. On net, foreign equity prices rose slightly. The foreign exchange value of the dollar edged lower on balance. However, the dollar appreciated against the Brazilian real and the Japanese yen, which were held down by weak economic data and, in the case of the yen, by market reaction to statements suggesting that the country's likely next government would urge the Bank of Japan to seek a higher rate of inflation. Yields on foreign benchmark sovereign bonds declined, as central banks maintained or extended monetary accommodation. The Bank of Japan expanded its asset purchase program and announced a new lending scheme. The Bank of England announced that it would transfer cash holdings from its asset purchase fund to the U.K. Treasury, a measure that may exert some further downward pressure on gilt yields to the extent that gilt issuance by the government is reduced. The Reserve Bank of Australia and several emerging market central banks also eased monetary policy. The staff also reported on potential risks to financial stability, including those associated with a disorderly resolution of the so-called fiscal cliff, a delayed increase in the federal debt ceiling, or a future deterioration of financial conditions in Europe. In addition, in monitoring for possible adverse effects of the current environment of low interest rates, the staff surveyed a wide range of asset markets and financial institutions for signs of excessive valuations, leverage, or risk-taking that could pose systemic risks. Valuations for broad asset classes did not appear stretched, or supported by excessive leverage. Indicators of risk-taking and leverage had moderately increased, on balance, over the past couple of years but remained notably below their levels before the financial crisis. Staff Economic OutlookIn the economic projection prepared by the staff for the December FOMC meeting, real gross domestic product (GDP) growth in the near term was revised down slightly relative to the previous forecast. This downward revision primarily reflected weaker-than-expected data for consumer spending and household income that more than offset the somewhat better-than-anticipated news regarding employment and business equipment investment. The staff's medium-term forecast for real GDP growth also was revised down a little, as some of the recent weakness in household spending and income was carried forward in the projection. In addition, financial conditions were anticipated to be a little less supportive than expected in the staff's previous forecast. With federal fiscal policy assumed to be tighter next year than this year, the staff expected that the increase in real GDP would not materially exceed the growth rate of potential output in 2013. In 2014 and 2015, economic activity was projected to accelerate slowly, supported by a lessening in fiscal policy restraint, gains in consumer and business confidence, further improvements in financial conditions and credit availability, and accommodative monetary policy. The expansion in economic activity was anticipated to result in only a gradual decline in slack in labor and product markets over the forecast period, and progress in reducing unemployment was expected to be relatively slow. The staff's projection for inflation in both the near term and the medium term was essentially unchanged from the forecast prepared for the previous FOMC meeting. With crude oil prices expected to continue to decrease slowly, the boost to retail food prices from last summer's drought anticipated to be only temporary and fairly small, long-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, and considerable resource slack persisting over the forecast period, the staff projected that inflation would be subdued through 2015. The staff viewed the uncertainty around the projection for economic activity as somewhat elevated and the risks as skewed to the downside, largely reflecting the possibility of a more severe tightening in U.S. fiscal policy than expected, along with continued concerns about the economic and financial situation in Europe. Although the staff saw the outlook for inflation as uncertain, the risks were viewed as balanced and not unusually high. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic OutlookIn conjunction with this FOMC meeting, meeting participants--the 7 members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks, all of whom participate in the deliberations of the FOMC--submitted their assessments of real output growth, the unemployment rate, inflation, and the target federal funds rate for each year from 2012 through 2015 and over the longer run, under each participant's judgment of appropriate monetary policy. The longer-run projections represent each participant's assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge, over time, under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the economy. These economic projections and policy assessments are described in the Summary of Economic Projections, which is attached as an addendum to these minutes. In their discussion of the economic situation, participants regarded the information received during the intermeeting period as indicating that economic activity and employment continued to expand at a moderate pace, apart from weather-related disruptions. The unemployment rate had declined somewhat since the summer but remained elevated. Although household spending had continued to advance, growth in business fixed investment had slowed. The housing sector had shown further signs of improvement. Consumer price inflation had been running somewhat below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent, apart from temporary variations that largely reflected fluctuations in energy prices, and longer-term inflation expectations had remained stable. In their assessments of the economic outlook, many participants thought that the pace of economic expansion would remain moderate in 2013 before picking up gradually in 2014 and 2015. This outlook was little changed from their projections at recent meetings. Hurricane Sandy was expected to weigh on economic growth in the current quarter, but rebuilding could provide some temporary impetus early in 2013. Participants' forecasts, which generally were conditioned on the view that it would be appropriate to maintain a highly accommodative monetary policy for a considerable time, included an outlook for a continued gradual decline in the unemployment rate toward levels judged to be consistent with the Committee's mandate over the longer run, with inflation running near the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal. Participants observed that growth in economic activity continued to be restrained by several persistent headwinds, including ongoing deleveraging on the part of households and still-tight credit conditions for some borrowers, and that a major headwind facing the economy at present appeared to be uncertainty about U.S. fiscal policy and the outcome of the ongoing negotiations on federal spending and taxes. While participants generally saw it as likely that the Congress and the Administration would avert the full force of the tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to occur in 2013, almost all indicated that heightened uncertainty about fiscal policy probably was affecting economic activity adversely. For example, it likely had reduced household and business confidence and led firms to defer hiring and investment spending. Some participants noted that an early and constructive resolution to fiscal policy negotiations had the potential to release pent-up demand and therefore be followed by a boost to spending, investment, and employment; however, a few pointed out that an extended breakdown of negotiations could have significant adverse effects on economic growth. Other factors weighing on the economic outlook included the slowdown in global economic growth and continued uncertainty regarding the European fiscal and banking situation. In their discussion of the household sector, many participants noted a recent drop in consumer sentiment and a softening in consumer spending. Some participants thought this reflected uncertainty about fiscal policy, including the prospect of higher taxes, and several noted that growth of households' real disposable income remained weak despite recent gains in employment. While indicators of spending were mixed, purchases of autos and other durables remained relatively strong. A couple of participants observed that businesses in a few areas had reported strong holiday-related activity. Many pointed out that reductions in households' debt, together with rising home prices, had led to an improvement in household balance sheets; it was noted that household net worth was approaching levels seen before the financial crisis. Business contacts in many parts of the country were also said to be highly uncertain about the outlook for U.S. fiscal policy, and participants noted that this uncertainty appeared to have weighed on investment and hiring decisions. Although firms' balance sheets were generally strong and liquidity was ample, some business contacts reported that they had shifted toward a higher proportion of part-time employees and postponed plans to expand capacity. A number of participants suggested that the business sector was well positioned to expand spending and hiring quickly upon a positive resolution of the fiscal cliff negotiations. In a few regions, contacts reported concerns about the expense associated with new regulations, including those related to health care, and in some cases indicated a shift to the hiring of part-time workers in order to avoid these costs. There were reports of weaker manufacturing, particularly in the Northeast in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, and a slackening in economic activity in the Southwest related in part to cutbacks in defense spending. Export orders had softened, reflecting the slowdown in global growth. The energy sector continued to expand. In the agricultural sector, farm incomes were high, notwithstanding the drought, although elevated grain prices were cutting into profits on livestock. Meeting participants generally agreed that the recovery in the housing sector had continued. Many commented that the headwinds facing the housing market appeared to have dissipated somewhat. The capacity constraints on the processing of new home-mortgage applications appeared to be easing, and gradually rising home prices had reduced the proportion of households with underwater mortgages. It was noted that the mix of new home sales seemed to have shifted from homes already completed to homes not yet built. In discussing labor market developments, participants generally viewed the recent data as having been somewhat better than expected, with moderate gains in payroll employment and a decline in the unemployment rate. However, the unemployment rate remained elevated, and part of the decline in unemployment in November was attributable to a drop in labor force participation. A few participants noted that some exits from the labor force may have been related to the loss or prospective loss of eligibility for emergency unemployment insurance benefits. Several pointed to indicators suggesting that rates of hiring remained depressed relative to those observed before the financial crisis. A couple of participants noted that vacancies remained at a high level in terms of their historical relationship to the rate of unemployment, suggesting that at least some firms were having a hard time finding suitable workers; indeed, business contacts in a couple of regions had reported difficulty in locating and retaining workers with requisite skills. However, one participant suggested that employer-worker mismatch likely reflected longer-term problems and had probably not worsened materially as a result of the recent deep recession and slow recovery. Incoming information pointed to stable, low inflation that was running a little below the Committee's longer-run goal of 2 percent. Crude oil prices had moved down since the October meeting amid accumulating inventories and market concerns about a weaker global outlook. Despite some reports of labor shortages in certain industries, compensation pressures had remained subdued, and unit labor costs were little changed over the previous four quarters. Most participants saw the risks to the inflation outlook as broadly balanced, and many noted that longer-term inflation expectations were well anchored. One participant, however, expressed concern that considerable uncertainty surrounded the relationship between unemployment and inflation, raising questions about the extent to which resource slack would keep inflation restrained over the medium term. In their discussion of financial developments, a few participants commented that recent steps taken by European authorities had reduced volatility in sovereign debt markets over the intermeeting period; however, concerns remained about the fiscal and economic outlook in Europe. Many noted the ongoing deleveraging in the private nonfinancial sector of the U.S. economy and indicated that it was difficult to judge when that process would be complete. A few participants, observing that low interest rates had increased the demand for riskier financial products, pointed to the possibility that holding interest rates low for a prolonged period could lead to financial imbalances and imprudent risk-taking. One participant suggested that there were several historical episodes in the United States and other countries that might be used to build a better understanding of the financial strains that could develop from a long period of very low long-term interest rates. Pointing to a recent decision of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, one participant commented that further money market mutual fund reform would help reduce risk in the financial system. Participants exchanged views on the likely benefits and costs of additional asset purchases in the context of an assessment of the ongoing purchases of MBS and possible additional purchases of longer-term Treasury securities to follow the conclusion of the maturity extension program. Regarding the benefits, it was noted that asset purchases provide support to the economic recovery by putting downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and promoting more-accommodative financial conditions. Participants discussed the effectiveness of purchasing different types of assets and the potential for the effects on yields from purchases in the market for one class of securities to spill over to other markets. If these spillovers are significant, then purchases of longer-term Treasury securities might be preferred, in light of the depth and liquidity of that market. However, if markets are more segmented, purchases of MBS might be preferred because they would provide more support to real activity through the housing sector. One participant commented that the best approach would be to continue purchases in both the Treasury and MBS markets, given the uncertainty about the precise channels through which asset purchases operated. Others emphasized the advantages of MBS purchases, including by noting the apparent effectiveness of recent MBS purchases on the housing market, while another participant objected and thought that Federal Reserve purchases should not direct credit to a specific sector. With regard to the possible costs and risks of purchases, a number of participants expressed the concern that additional purchases could complicate the Committee's efforts to eventually withdraw monetary policy accommodation, for example, by potentially causing inflation expectations to rise or by impairing the future implementation of monetary policy. Participants also discussed the implications of continued asset purchases for the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. Depending on the path for the balance sheet and interest rates, the Federal Reserve's net income and its remittances to the Treasury could be significantly affected during the period of policy normalization. Participants noted that the Committee would need to continue to assess whether large purchases were having adverse effects on market functioning and financial stability. They expressed a range of views on the appropriate pace of purchases, both now and as the outlook evolved. It was agreed that both the efficacy and the costs would need to be carefully monitored and taken into account in determining the size, pace, and composition of asset purchases. Meeting participants discussed the possibility of replacing the calendar date in the forward guidance for the federal funds rate with specific quantitative thresholds of 6-1/2 percent for the unemployment rate and 2-1/2 percent for projected inflation between one and two years ahead. Most participants favored replacing the calendar-date forward guidance with economic thresholds, and several noted that the consistency between the "mid-2015" reference in the Committee's October statement and the specific quantitative thresholds being considered at the current meeting provided an opportunity for a smooth transition. However, possible advantages of waiting a while to introduce the change to the Committee's forward guidance were also mentioned, including that a delay might simplify communications by keeping the introduction of thresholds separate from the announcement of additional asset purchases. Among the benefits of quantitative thresholds that were cited was that they could help the public more readily understand how the likely timing of an eventual increase in the federal funds rate would shift in response to unanticipated changes in economic conditions and the outlook. Accordingly, thresholds could increase the probability that market reactions to economic developments would move longer-term interest rates in a manner consistent with the Committee's view regarding the likely future path of short-term interest rates. A few participants expressed a preference for using a qualitative description of the economic indicators influencing the Committee's thinking about current and future monetary policy rather than quantitative guidance because they felt that qualitative guidance would be at least as effective as numerical thresholds while avoiding some potential disadvantages, including the possibility that the numerical thresholds would be mistakenly interpreted as the Committee's longer-run objectives. A few participants commented that the quantitative thresholds might be interpreted as triggers that, when reached, would prompt an immediate increase in short-term rates. However, a number of participants indicated that the Chairman's press conference and other avenues of communication could be used to emphasize, for example, the distinction between thresholds and the longer-run objectives as well as between thresholds and triggers. Participants also discussed the importance of clarifying that the thresholds would not be followed mechanically and that a variety of indicators of labor market conditions and inflation pressures, as well as financial developments, would be taken into account in setting policy. Committee Policy ActionCommittee members viewed the information received over the intermeeting period as suggesting that economic activity and employment continued to expand at a moderate pace in recent months, abstracting from weather-related disruptions. Household spending had continued to advance and the housing sector had shown further signs of improvement, but growth in the business sector had slowed. Anecdotal evidence indicated that uncertainty about U.S. fiscal policy weighed heavily on sentiment in the household and business sectors. Although the unemployment rate had declined somewhat since the summer, it was still elevated relative to levels that members viewed as normal in the longer run. Members generally agreed that the economic outlook was little changed since the previous meeting and judged that, without sufficient policy accommodation, economic growth might not be strong enough to generate sustained improvement in labor market conditions. Furthermore, strains in global financial markets continued to pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook. Inflation had been subdued, apart from some temporary variations that largely reflected fluctuations in energy prices. With longer-term inflation expectations stable, inflation over the medium term was anticipated to run at or below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent. In their discussion of monetary policy for the period ahead, all members but one judged that continued provision of monetary accommodation was warranted in order to support further progress toward the Committee's goals of maximum employment and price stability. The Committee judged that such accommodation should be provided in part by continuing to purchase MBS at a pace of $40 billion per month and by purchasing longer-term Treasury securities, initially at a pace of $45 billion per month, following the completion of the maturity extension program at the end of the year. The Committee also maintained its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency MBS into agency MBS and decided that, starting in January, it will resume rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. While almost all members thought that the asset purchase program begun in September had been effective and supportive of growth, they also generally saw that the benefits of ongoing purchases were uncertain and that the potential costs could rise as the size of the balance sheet increased. Various members stressed the importance of a continuing assessment of labor market developments and reviews of the program's efficacy and costs at upcoming FOMC meetings. In considering the outlook for the labor market and the broader economy, a few members expressed the view that ongoing asset purchases would likely be warranted until about the end of 2013, while a few others emphasized the need for considerable policy accommodation but did not state a specific time frame or total for purchases. Several others thought that it would probably be appropriate to slow or to stop purchases well before the end of 2013, citing concerns about financial stability or the size of the balance sheet. One member viewed any additional purchases as unwarranted. With regard to its forward guidance about the federal funds rate, the Committee decided to indicate in the statement language that it expects the highly accommodative stance of monetary policy to remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In addition, all but one member agreed to replace the date-based guidance with economic thresholds indicating that the exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate would remain appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6¬Ω percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. The Committee thought it would be helpful to indicate in the statement that it viewed the economic thresholds as consistent with its earlier, date-based guidance. The new language noted that the Committee would also consider other information when determining how long to maintain the highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. One member dissented from the policy decision, opposing the new economic threshold language in the forward guidance, as well as the additional asset purchases and continued intervention in the MBS market. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: "The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. To further its long-run objectives, the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to complete the maturity extension program it announced in June to purchase Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 6 years to 30 years with a total face value of about $267 billion by the end of December 2012, and to sell or redeem Treasury securities with remaining maturities of approximately 3 years or less with a total face value of about $267 billion. Following the completion of this program, the Committee directs the Desk to resume its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues. From the beginning of January, the Desk is directed to purchase longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of about $45 billion per month. The Committee directs the Desk to maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in the System Open Market Account in agency mortgage-backed securities. The Desk is also directed to continue purchasing agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of about $40 billion per month. The Committee directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS transactions. The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability."The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 12:30 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in October suggests that economic activity and employment have continued to expand at a moderate pace in recent months, apart from weather-related disruptions. Although the unemployment rate has declined somewhat since the summer, it remains elevated. Household spending has continued to advance, and the housing sector has shown further signs of improvement, but growth in business fixed investment has slowed. Inflation has been running somewhat below the Committee's longer-run objective, apart from temporary variations that largely reflect fluctuations in energy prices. Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee remains concerned that, without sufficient policy accommodation, economic growth might not be strong enough to generate sustained improvement in labor market conditions. Furthermore, strains in global financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook. The Committee also anticipates that inflation over the medium term likely will run at or below its 2 percent objective. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee will continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month. The Committee also will purchase longer-term Treasury securities after its program to extend the average maturity of its holdings of Treasury securities is completed at the end of the year, initially at a pace of $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and, in January, will resume rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months. If the outlook for the labor market does not improve substantially, the Committee will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until such improvement is achieved in a context of price stability. In determining the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, the Committee will, as always, take appropriate account of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee expects that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. The Committee views these thresholds as consistent with its earlier date-based guidance. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent." Voting for this action: Ben Bernanke, William C. Dudley, Elizabeth Duke, Dennis P. Lockhart, Sandra Pianalto, Jerome H. Powell, Sarah Bloom Raskin, Jeremy C. Stein, Daniel K. Tarullo, John C. Williams, and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against this action: Jeffrey M. Lacker. Mr. Lacker dissented because he objected to the asset purchases and to the characterization of the conditions under which an exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate would remain appropriate. He continued to view asset purchases as unlikely to add to economic growth without unacceptably increasing the risk of future inflation, and to see purchases of MBS as inappropriate credit allocation. With regard to the funds rate, Mr. Lacker was concerned that linking the forward guidance to a specific numerical level of the unemployment rate would inhibit the effectiveness of the Committee's communications and increase the potential for inflationary policy errors; he preferred qualitative guidance instead. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday‚ÄìWednesday, January 29-30, 2013. The meeting adjourned at 11:25 a.m. on December 12, 2012. Notation VoteBy notation vote completed on November 9, 2012, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on October 23-24, 2012. ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Moments away from the release of the minutes of the FOMC's December meeting, due out at 2 PM ET. After the meeting, the Federal Reserve made a historic announcement: the Committee would shift to quantitative, target-based interest rate guidance instead of its traditional calendar-based guidance. The new policy is known as the "Evans rule," named after Chicago Fed President Charles Evans. Wall Street was expecting the shift sometime in 2013, but got the surprise in December instead. We will have the minutes LIVE at 2 PM ET. Click here for updates &gt;
Washington DC led the country in net inward migration for the 7th-consecutive year, according to Atlas Vans' annual U.S. and Canada moving trends map (via Catherine Rampell). Meanwhile, New York, New Jersey and most Midwest states continue to see high rates of residents checking out. Here are the top (and bottom) performers: Atlas Washington's inbound flows have actually been trailing off since 2007, when they hit 701. In 2012 they were just 510.¬† Still, it clearly has not lost its appeal. North Carolina's status should also not be surprising ‚Äî it's the state where our "Mr. U.S. Economy"¬†moved¬†after he was laid off and lost his home (don't worry, he's¬†doing great¬†now). Wyoming shot back to the top of the outbound list after seeing a flat year in 2011. Nebraska has been "outbound" for two consecutive years. New York has been outbound since at least 2003. Meanwhile, no Midwestern state has been classified as inbound for more than 10 years, Atlas says. Atlas gave each state (or province) "a threshold value", calculated as total number of moves multiplied by 0.55. (For example, in a state with 100 moves, at least 55 of them would have to be outgoing to classify the state as outbound). If a state's outbound moves exceeded its threshold value, it is "outbound"; vice-versa for inbound.¬† Here's the full picture:¬†orange=outbound, red=flat, blue=inbound.¬†For the fractions, bottom=2012 total inward migration #; top=2012 total outward migration #. Atlas And for comparison purposes ‚Äî and with the caveat that this is merely correlation, not causation ‚Äî here is the map from Chief Executive magazine showing the country's most and least business-friendly states: ChiefExecutive.net¬† ¬† SEE ALSO: The 10 best housing markets of 2012 &gt;
UPDATE: NASDAQ quotes are back, and Bloomberg is reporting that the UQDF/UTDF issue has been resolved. --------------- EARLIER: There is an issue with quotes on NASDAQ-listed stocks having trouble streaming to other exchanges. Via Bloomberg, NASDAQ says UTP SIP is probing an issue with stale data on UQDF/UTDF. The chart below shows how the index has flatlined in the last few minutes: Google Finance More to come...
Franklin TempletonAs an investor, one of your New Year's resolutions may be to polish up on the investment wisdom of our elders. The famous British investment guru Sir John Templeton has 16 Rules For Investment Success, his best tips on what investors need to keep in mind if they're going to generate positive returns. His lessons are the end result of a lifetime of knowledge, and include advice on stock selection, going against market sentiment, keeping your cool, and putting investing in perspective. These words of wisdom provide a solid foundation for success for new investors and an invaluable supplement to existing investors' knowledge of the market.
This chart comes from a presentation from JP Morgan Funds.¬† It tracks stock market volatility and correlations among stocks since the Great Depression.¬† As you can see, during periods of high volatility, correlations among stocks increase.¬† In other words, stocks move up and down together. 
C-SPANThe 113th Congress convened for the first time Thursday, and re-elected John Boehner as House Speaker, putting to rest rumors that the Ohio Republican's position was in jeopardy.¬† But Boehner begins the new session of Congress more vulnerable than he has been at any other point in his speakership.  Some GOP sources on the Hill had even speculated that there could be be a rare second ballot for Speaker, in the event that 16 conservative Republicans vote against Boehner.¬† In the end, only nine Republicans defected from Boehner. Out of the 426 votes cast, 220 Republicans voted to keep re-elect the Speaker, putting him over the 217-vote threshold needed to win.¬† Of the defections, three votes went to House Minority Leader Eric Cantor and two went to Tea Party favorite Allen West, a Florida Congressman who lost his re-election bid in 2012. Reps. Raul Labrador (R-ID), Justin Amash (R-MI), and Jim Jordan, the Republican Study Committee chair, also earned votes, as did former Comptroller General David Walker.¬† Here are our updates from the vote:¬† UPDATE 1:¬† Rep. Justin Amash (R-MI), one of the four congressmen "purged" by Boehner, just voted for Rep. Raul Labrador (R-ID) as speaker.¬† UPDATE 2:¬† Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-OK) just voted for Cantor.¬† UPDATE 3:¬† Tea Party favorite Allen West, who lost his reelection to Congress, just got a vote for Speaker from Rep. Paul Broun (R-GA).¬† UPDATE 4:¬† Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) votes for Colin Powell. That's the second Democrat to defect from Pelosi.¬† UPDATE 5:¬† Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) gives Allen West his second vote for speaker.¬† UPDATE 6:¬† Rep. Tim Huelskamp (R-KS), another purged congressman, votes for Rep. Jim Jordan, the head of the Republican Study Committee.¬† UPDATE 7:¬† Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC) votes for David Jones, the former GAO comptroller. Yes, that's pretty random.¬† UPDATE 8:¬† Rep. Thomas Massie (R-KY) votes Amash for Speaker. Both Massie and Amash are acolytes of retired Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX).¬† Rep. Mike McIntyre (D-NC) a Blue Dog Democrat, defected from Pelosi.¬† UPDATE 9:¬† Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM) votes Cantor for Speaker. There are now 16 Republican votes against Boehner ‚Äî 8 defections and 8 abstentions. Abstentions do not necessarily hurt Boehner however ‚Äî the speaker needs an absolute majority of votes cast.¬† UPDATE 10:¬† Rep. Ted Yoho, a freshman Republican from Florida, votes Cantor for Speaker.¬† *Correction: An earlier version of this post incorrectly stated that¬†Reps.¬†Scott Garrett¬†(R-N.J.) and Raul Labrador (R-ID) abstained from the speaker vote.¬†
In their daily briefing, Deutsche Bank commodities analysts Michael Lewis and Christina McGlone point out that in 2012 ñ notwithstanding a few big winners like lumber†and soybean meal ñ commodities as an asset class were the worst investment on a total return basis. The analysts see that changing in 2013. Namely, they suggest that precious metals like gold and silver, which languished into last year's end, are set to rebound. However, Lewis and McGlone cite two main risks to their view. The first is that the economy really starts to improve. This is the hypothesis behind Goldman's notably bearish gold forecast for 2013. The second risk is a "violent" turn in the U.S. dollar, the Deutsche Bank analysts write: Historically US dollar cycles persist for an average of seven years, hence the current bear cycle in the US dollar is in its 11th year, and consequently should be viewed as long in the tooth. This has important implications for commodity markets not least given the growing correlation between risk assets since the onset of the financial crisis. Turns in the US dollar following bear cycles can be violent. For example, when the dollar turned in July 1980, the dollar appreciated by just over 40% within the following 12 month period. Given the ongoing weakness in the US basic balance we expect a turn in the dollar is some way off and that the US dollar will display weakness in the first half of this year. Below is a chart showing the U.S. dollar's decline over the last decade: Bloomberg, Business Insider Although Lewis and McGlone see continued dollar weakness "in the first half of this year," they don't comment on what might come after that. MORE: The Defining Central Bank Trade Of 2013 &gt;
APBreaking Tim Geithner news from Bloomberg. The Treasury Secretary plans to leave Washington before the debt ceiling debate, Hans Nichols reports. That means he'll probably be gone by the end of January. And it means we won't have a battle hardened Treasury Secretary in office for what is sure to be Washington's next knock-down, drag-out fight. Nichols also writes that the hunt for the next Treasury Secretary is still on. White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew may still be the frontrunner, but his lack of experience in the financial sector (he only spent two years as a Managing Director at Citigroup) doesn't make him ideal. From Bloomberg: Administration officials had approached American Express Co. Chief Executive Officer Kenneth Chenault about joining Obama‚Äôs second-term cabinet, possibly as Treasury secretary. Chenault isn‚Äôt interested in leaving his private sector job, according to a spokesman. ‚ÄúKen has no plans to leave American Express,‚Äù said Michael O‚ÄôNeill, a spokesman for the New York-based company, declining further comment. Point is, we imagine a lot of people in Washington are still making a lot of phone calls about this one. The Treasury, meanwhile, is staying mum. ‚ÄúSecretary Geithner has previously stated that he plans to be at Treasury until around the inauguration," said a Treasury spokesperson. "We do not plan to make any further announcements about the timing of the Secretary‚Äôs departure until after his successor is named.‚Äù
The San Francisco Fed just tweeted this infographic from the World Bank, which explains the characteristics of the approximately 2.5 billion people who are unbanked: World Bank
Economic and financial market bubbles are scary things. Last spring, we reviewed a list of asset classes that experts considered to be in bubbles. Did any burst? We asked some of our favorite economists and analysts for their assessments of the world of bubbles. Most agreed that the fear bubble in Europe finally burst. Chris Rupkey, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi "The¬†European Sovereign Debt Crisis¬†was a¬†bubble¬†that some people never wanted to end. The newspapers, hedge funds, fx strategists had a vested interest in keeping that fear alive. Draghi said they would do what it takes to preserve the Euro in July. Believe me it's over. And good riddance." Jim O'Neill, Goldman Sachs "People saying 'it's the end of EMU'¬†which almost felt like a bubble!" David Kotok, Cumberland Advisors "Short sellers of stocks in US and Europe¬†got creamed. They are and were on the wrong side of a deflation, recession trade." We may have also witnessed a second tech bubble. Diane Swonk, Mesirow "I would say¬†our¬†love of IPOs¬†was burst this year by the reality of the greed of those offering them. Individual investors need and are being much more cautious about what they buy out of the gate, knowing now that the playing field is uneven. This is tragic in some ways because it is the engine that drive new job creation in the 1990s. The reality is all that rocks our world via technology is not profitable. One would think we learned a lesson with the bursting of the tech¬†bubble¬†in 2000, but alas our memories are short." Some think bubbles are only getting bigger. Bill Fleckenstein, Fleckenstein Capital "There aren't any to pop...bonds will get hammered in 2013 but they aren't really a¬†bubble." Peter Schiff, Euro Pacific Capital "Some [bubbles became] bigger¬†‚Äî the bond bubble has gotten bigger. The stupidity bubble has gotten bigger. Central bank ‚Äî but they will pop‚Ä¶" Ultimately, it's not so clear what's going on with bubbles. "I do not know of any except European football clubs," says Jim Rogers of Rogers Holdings. "Perhaps Chinese real estate, but we do not know for sure yet.¬†Same for US government bonds."
AP Photo/Altaf QadriDelhi Police have officially charged five men with the kidnap, gang-rape, and murder of a 23-year old woman in Delhi, according to the Press Trust of India. If found guilty the accused could get the death sentence. The sixth accused¬†is believed to be under 17 and could be tried in a juvenile court, though reports say police are still awaiting the results of a bone density test to determine his age. According to some reports, the juvenile was the most vicious of the attackers. The woman was raped, and beaten and violated with a metal rod on December 16 and died at a hospital in Singapore on December 29. Her male companion was also brutally beaten in the attack. The brutality of the attack sparked protests in New Delhi and across the country. The victim's father has said those responsible for the attack should be hanged. Public Prosecutor Rajiv Mohan told reporters that the crime was "well-planned", according to The Times of India. "Each one of them has a specific role in the commission of the offense. So they are equally liable for the crime. We have sufficient evidence against all the accused including the juvenile offender," he said. We previously reported that The National Crime Records Bureau of India shows that 24,206 cases of "rape" were reported in India in 2011, with a low conviction rate of 26.4 percent. This doesn't include "crime against women" which covers molestation, kidnapping, and sexual harassment, which saw 228,650 cases reported in 2011, with a conviction rate of 26.9 percent. Moreover, in a country where rape is still taboo, a large number of rapes go unreported. Latest figures suggest that a woman is raped every 20 minutes and that rapes in Delhi are up 16 percent to 661 cases this year. Rape is almost an epidemic in the country, where another assault reported on an 18-year-old in the north-eastern Indian state of Meghalaya.¬†Meanwhile, a Congress leader in the North Eastern state of Assam accused of raping a woman was attacked by villagers. The case against the five accused will be tried in a fast-track court.
There's a black market for craft beer. Brewers have taken things to the next level, spending the time and effort to increase the complexity and scarcity of their beers, catering to the crowd of rabid consumers who spend hours on beer-rating websites like RateBeer.com. Christian DeBenedetti, editor-in-chief of The Weekly Pint, has covered the craft beer industry since the '90s and he wrote in a story at Slate that he thought he'd seen it all. That is, until he saw the beer black market in action. He explained: At New Yorkís Blind Tiger bar one late afternoon last March, a slight, unsmiling young man in a dark windbreaker ordered several pints of beer from the bar, transferred them one by one to a canteen, then slipped away.  ìHeís going straight home to resell that on eBay,î muttered a patron standing nearby.  The perishable beer in question was brewed by Shaun Hill at Hill Farmstead brewery in Vermont, which is currently rated the†sixth best brewery in the world by the users of RateBeer. It's illegal to sell alcohol for consumption unless you have a license, but there's plenty of the shady practice happening on eBay. DeBenedetti wrote that the number of successful auctions closed is in the thousands. Sellers ignore U.S. laws and eBay's rules. And prices for some of these beers are spectacularly high.†Here's a single 12-ounce bottle of unopened Midnight Sun M that sold for†$1,310 on eBay. The description of the item reads: "The bottle is a factory-sealed unused bottle and the content of the bottles are incidental." Below, a disclaimer notes that "any incidental contents are not intended for consumption."
Transocean Ltd.'s stock is popping after the Wall Street Journal's Tom Fowler first reported†the company†agreed to pay $1.4 billion to settle claims related to 2010's Deepwater Horizon disaster. Transocean owned the Deepwater Horizon rig. Eleven workers were killed when a methane bubble shot up through the rig and combusted. The incident led to the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history. But traders appear to be relieved the penalty was not worse ó the stock is up +5 percent.†
It looks like trading firm Knight Capital will sell itself to Getco Holding company, sources tell Reuters. From Reuters: Though Virtu had offered an all-cash deal, Getco and its private equity firm General Atlantic increased its offer to above $3.60 a share in cash and stock in the combined company, one source said. Under Getco's plan, Knight Chief Executive Thomas Joyce would give up his role. Joyce leaving is a pretty big deal. He's respected on Wall Street, and saved the company after it suffered a $400 million loss due to a bug in one of its trading programs this summer. Then again, the loss was under his watch so it is what it is.
APKrysten SinemaWhen the 113th Congress convenes for the first time on Thursday, the House of Representatives will have several fresh faces among their ranks.¬† The 2012 election was a particularly strong year for challengers, with a whopping 66 new members headed to Washington for the new session.¬† With close to 15 percent of the new House comprised of freshmen, that's a lot of new people to meet.¬† We've checked them out, and compiled a list of the 12 members who, because of their interesting back-stories or all-star potential, are bound to make life on Capitol Hill more interesting this year.¬†
Last month, Goldman Sachs investment strategists rolled out their top 7 trades for 2013. Number two on that list of recommendations was taking a long position in the high yield market by shorting CDX HY Series 19,¬†an index of credit insurance on high-yield debt. Today, Goldman is already closing the trade recommendation, after only a single day of trading in the new year. The trade was actually originally introduced on November 19 and re-iterated as a "top trade" for 2013 in a note to Goldman clients on December 4. Since then, the CDX HY Series 19 index has fallen precipitously:  Goldman credit strategists, led by Charles Himmelberg, say that despite the fact that they are closing out the trade recommendation, it's still their "highest conviction call in 2013." In a note today, Himmelberg writes: We are closing our top trade #2, long CDX HY, with a potential profit of 300bp since its inception on December 4th. This top trade, opened at a spread of 500bp on December 4th, is an extension of a tactical trade opened at 564bp on November 19 (see ‚ÄúSell-off presents good entry for CDX HY‚Äù, The Credit Line, November 19, 2012). As of yesterday's close, the spread on the on-the-run CDX HY index stands at 439bp (see Exhibit 1).  While our top trade has hit its target somewhat sooner than we had expected, HY remains our highest conviction call in 2013. At 439bp, synthetic HY spreads are trading inside levels last seen in the first quarter of 2011. This has clearly eroded valuations, but we still expect HY spreads (both in the cash and synthetic markets) to grind tighter this year, especially once we are past the fiscal headwinds of the first quarter.  Despite tighter spreads, HY is the ‚Äúleast bad‚Äù choice in what remains a bleak opportunity set in fixed income markets. Virtually all of the pillars underlying our constructive view on HY remain intact, recent rally notwithstanding. Those "pillars" referred to by Himmelberg include low fundamental default risk, low recession risk despite the fiscal headwinds, lower tail risk from the European debt crisis, and the ongoing "search for yield" theme playing out in global fixed income markets. Himmelberg concludes: "In sum, while we are closing these trades, we still like the theme, and we will likely view any sell-off during the forthcoming debt ceiling negotiations as an opportunity to add risk in CDX HY, just as we did at the outset of the fiscal cliff negotiations." GOLDMAN: Here Are Our Top 7 Trades For 2013 &gt;
Google FinanceAfter spending most of the morning in the red, stocks have just turned positive. This is particularly impressive following yesterday's huge rally. The rally comes after a strong ADP jobs report., which has economists raising their forecasts for this Friday's big BLS nonfarm payrolls report. Click Here For Updates &gt;
Bloomberg TVRegular readers know that "bond king" Bill Gross, who runs the world's biggest fixed income fund at PIMCO, is not the biggest fan of the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing programs. In his January letter, entitled "Money for Nothing, Checks for Free," Gross tells investors to avoid long-term U.S. government debt, writing that "ultimately government financing schemes such as todayís QEs or Englandís early 1700s South Sea Bubble end badly." Gross takes aim at a speech given by now-Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke back in 2002, in which Bernanke says the Fed can increase the monetary base "at essentially no cost." Gross says that Bernanke may have been referring to the fact that through quantitative easing, the Fed buys government bonds issued by the U.S. Treasury on the open market and then sends the interest income on its holdings back to the Treasury at the end of every year. In other words, the Treasury can not only issue debt on the cheap right now due to very low interest rates, but it also makes back a lot of the interest it has to pay out on the debt it issues every year because the Fed, which owns a significant portion of the bonds that make up the Treasury market, sends those payments right back to the Treasury. Gross writes (emphasis his): "When the Fed buys $1 trillion worth of Treasuries and mortgages annually, as it is now doing, it effectively is financing 80% of the deficit for free...This is about as good as it can get folks. Money for nothing. Debt for free." However, Gross warns that inflation is the real "cost" of the Fed's easing, and investors should avoid long-dated U.S. Treasuries because of it (emphasis his): While they are not likely to breathe fire in 2013, the inflationary dragons lurk in the ìoutî years towards which long-term bond yields are measured. You should avoid them and confine your maturities and bond durations to short/intermediate targets supported by Fed policies...Bernankeís dreams of economic revival, which would then lead to the day that investors can earn higher returns, may be an unattainable theoretical hope, in contrast to a future reality. Japan we are not, nor is Euroland or the U.K. ñ just yet. But ìcostlessî check writing does indeed have a cost and checks cannot perpetually be written for free. Read the full letter at PIMCO &gt;
We wrote yesterday about how America and the European Union are experiencing similar broken systems because in both, you have politicians from various regions imposing not-ideal policies on others. The difference is: in Europe, the rich states bully the poor states. In The US, the states that receive the most try to bully the rich states. It seems The Economist agrees that the US system is looking pretty broke. The Economist
Instagram via Heidi Moore Maybe you lost this in the New Year's shuffle like we did, but the Wall Street Journal blog, Deal Journal put out its list of the biggest losers of 2012 and almost all of them are Wall Streeters. There are only 4 people/companies on the list, and three of them come from Wall Street. The list starts with Jamie Dimon (citing the $6 billion trading loss in JP Morgan's chief investment office, of course), and then moves on to Facebook, Steve Cohen and his hedge fund SAC Capital, and then finally trading firm Knight Capital. To be fair, one could argue that Facebook is also a story of Wall Street failure because Deal Journal cites the company's IPO disaster as the reason for presence on this list. So of course, the company that took the company public gets a shout out. From Deal Journal: It was the second-biggest IPO in U.S. history and Mark Zuckerberg and Co. were made instant billionaires by the $100 billion valuation. But Facebook fell for its own hype. The company and its lead underwriter Morgan Stanley overestimated the demand for the offering, increasing both the number of shares in the offering and the price just before the IPO. The fallout has been severe, no matter where the blame should lie. As shares slumped, regulators have fined the banks and confidence in the IPO system and markets in general has suffered. And it wasn't just Morgan Stanley that rode the hype of the IPO deal either. JP Morgan flew the Facebook flag at its office (as you can see above) had a huge banner welcoming in the company on IPO day, and even had its bankers rocking Facebook jackets. So instead of Wall Street claiming 3/4 of 2012's fail spots, it could be fair to say that it gets something like 3.2/4.
Thank you, Natalie.¬† You speak the truth. Cumberland has obtained a private copy of a Senate staffer briefing memo.¬† It includes the CBO scoring.¬† It is the type of document that was employed in this debate.¬† It is 16 pages long. Rest assured that few if any of the Senators or Congressman read the entire bill.¬† The briefing memo is posted on our website,www.cumber.com¬†, in the Special Reports section.¬† The title is "12/31/12 Summary of final deal Tax Document."¬† It is enough to make one sick.¬† Email me if your software cannot open it and I will send it to you.¬† Here is a link:¬†http://www.cumber.com/content/special/123112taxdeal.doc¬†. Now let me be blunt.¬† This "Taxpayer Relief Act" is a bunch of _ _ _ _!¬† No one got relief except the pork-receiving, politically connected ‚Äúspecial interests.‚Äù¬† As for the rest of us, in fact, this is one of the largest tax hikes in American history. In our firm of 28 people, everybody's taxes went UP.¬† Mine did, as I expected.¬† My top rate is now 39.6%, and 3.8% is added to taxes on my investment income, except for my tax-free Munis.¬† My long-term cap gains rate is 23.8%.¬† So be it.¬† The taxes on the higher incomes in our sub-S incorporated firm are enough money to hire several new people.¬† If business growth is good enough, we will hire them anyway, but the government policy has carved no exception for small business. I only wish my government didn't squander the money.¬† But they do.¬† And they lied to me.¬† Nothing new here, either. Now to the ‚Äúmeat‚Äù of the Congressional failure.¬† The 2% payroll-tax hike (because the previous reduction was not extended) hits every working person.¬† 140 million Americans pay this on their EARNED INCOME. Sadly, the pork in the legislation remained.¬† Moviemakers and auto racers and many others kept their special tax breaks.¬† The system remains sick.¬† Hollywood yes, but my $60,000-a-year employee has a $1200 permanent annual tax hike taken directly from her paycheck. Shame on the politicians who govern us. Markets celebrated, as one would expect.¬† The uncertainty premium is impossible to measure, but it is there.¬† Estimates are crude, but they show it is high.¬† It peaked a few days ago and when there were reports of an impasse to the House vote.¬† Now, it is shrinking.¬† So markets are rising after the law is passed and the new rules are known.¬† And the brackets are permanent.¬† The estate tax is permanent.¬† The AMT fix is permanent.¬† We now have two legs of a three-legged stool:¬† (1) Monetary policy is predictable for several years, and there will clearly continue to be a low interest rate worldwide for both short- and long-term debt.¬† Global total sovereign debt issuance will actually shrink for the first time in many years.¬† (2) US tax rates are predictable.¬† Cap gains rates, income tax levels, and estate tax thresholds are set.¬† It is hard to see them changing over the next two years.¬† The Republican majority in the new House will not allow it.¬† (3) America‚Äôs debt and deficit levels remain to be hammered out in tough negotiations with the new Congress and re-inaugurated White House. These politics will not be fun to watch.¬† In fact, the 2014 mid-term congressional races have already begun, and the antagonists are barely sworn in.¬† That is our system and this is the way we do it, whether we like it or not. Meanwhile, global stock markets are headed higher.¬† We have written about the whys and wherefores repeatedly.¬† Now we can add that the risk of a fiscal cliff-induced recession is eliminated.¬† That is a bullish development. We will stick with our slow-growth, gradually accelerating recovery forecast for the United States.¬† We like the housing sector recovery and the energy sector growth.¬† We remain fully invested in our ETF accounts. And we like tax-free Munis.¬† The tax-equivalent-yield computation makes them even more compelling after the so-called "Taxpayer Relief Act" has become the law of the land.
Flickr - MikeAncientDecember auto sales reports are coming out, and they're already beating expectations. Chrysler was the first of the big players to announce results and they jumped 10 percent, which was higher than the 7.6 percent analysts were looking for.† These figures were both reported by Bloomberg. Ford is reporting that U.S. light vehicle sales climbed 1.6 percent, which was higher than the 1.2 percent gain expected. Rounding out the Detroit three, GM reported that vehicle sales jumped 4.9 percent, which crushed expectations for just 2.1 percent growth. Total vehicle sales are expected to come in at 15.3 million for the month of December. More to come...
By doree on InstagramISM New York climbed to 54.3 in December, up from 52.5 a month ago. The latest reading reflects a 5-month high. "Purchase volume expanded more quickly, while employment contracted for a second time in three month," wrote the ISM. "Hurricane Sandy appeared to be a lingering business impediment, as weather/natural disasters remained elevated in December." Read the whole report here.
Everyone's talking about how brilliant the new Bloomberg Businessweek cover is. Bloomberg Businessweek We can understand why after the Fiscal Cliff nonsense (and imminent Debt Ceiling nonsense-on-stilts) this kind of cover appeals to people. But in reality, it's inaccurate to depict the Congress as being all babies. A lot of Congressmen on both sides of the aisle are adults trying to make deals, and look out for the interests of their constituents. That being said, there is a pretty sizable faction of Fiscal Fanatics that thinks it's beneficial to go to the edge of a government shutdown/default. And they think that unless they get 100% of want they want, then they've done a complete sellout. Baby mentality. After all, the Fiscal Cliff deal preserved the Bush tax cuts for virtually all Americans, and yet most of the GOP in the House couldn't vote for it. A number of folks in the media seem to get that there's something reckless about the Default Caucus of the GOP, but since they strive so hard for balance, they have to attack Obama for something too, and so they usually point to his lack of spending cuts. A good example of that is the lead piece in POLITICO today about "Obama's debt problem," which paints the debt as a big Obama's failure: The staggering national debt ó up about 60 percent from the $10 trillion Obama inherited when he took office in January 2009 ó is the single biggest blemish on Obamaís record, even if the rapid descent into red began under President George W. Bush. Actually, the fact that unemployment is barely below 8% is the real Obama failure, much bigger than the deficit. It goes on to talk about how 'opaque' Obama has been in terms of what spending he would cut, and how there's a looming day of entitlement reckoning: During the cliff talks, Obama was purposely opaque about what cuts heíd ultimately accept, saying only that Republican resistance to a one-shot grand bargain meant he needed to make a deal in pieces ó taxes first, spending second. That tactic delayed but didnít eliminate a looming day of reckoning on spending and entitlements that will come within 60 days thanks to the convergence of the debt ceiling deadline and the new deadline for keeping automatic cuts from kicking in. The truth of the matter is that Obama has done more than the GOP in terms of trying to come to grips with entitlement spending. The Washington Post reported last night that Obama had infuriated Democrats by agreeing a couple of weeks ago to adopt a "Chained CPI" (a change that would reduce annual increases in Social Security benefits). But the final day of the fiscal cliff fight, Republicans were attacking Obama for being open to this cut. The GOP has a hard time saying yes to a Grand Bargain. Greg Sargent at The Washington Post notes that the media is already getting rolled by the GOP on the debt ceiling fight, by buying into their view of it. He notes three things that everybody needs to know, but which the media rarely reports: 1) Republican leaders will ultimately agree to raise the debt ceiling, and they know it, because they themselves have previously admitted that not doing so will badly damage the economy. 2) Because of the above, a hike in the debt ceiling is not something that Democratic leaders want and that Republican leaders donít. In other words, it is not a typical bargaining chip in negotiations, in the way spending cuts (which Republicans want and Dems donít) or tax hikes (which Dems want and Republicans donít) are. 3) And so, if and when Republicans do agree to raise the debt ceiling, it will not constitute any kind of concession on their part ó even though they will continue to portray it as such to demand concessions in return. It will only constitute Republicans agreeing not to damage the whole country, which does not constitute (one hopes) them making a sacrifice. This last part is a key thing. Raising the debt ceiling isn't a concession, unless you think that the GOP actually wants to damage the economy. But the media helpfully gives into the frame. Most Congressmen aren't babies. Some are. In 2013, let's get rid of the "pox on both their houses" way of looking at things.
A blog called Computational Story Lab analyzed half a million of 2011's happiest tweets stemming from good times in Manhattan and pinpointed the happiest location on the island (h/t Curbed NYC). The precise location is around/in Central Park, near Central Park West and 77th Street. That's just north of the park's southern lake and east of the Museum of Natural History's Hayden Planetarium. So if you had a really awesome time seeing a concert, sun bathing, feeding ducks, or learning about super novas and you tweeted it, you may have contributed to this little corner of Manhattan's win. The unscientific study also found that the West Side is slightly happier than the East Side and that people get gradually less happy as they move uptown. Check out some graphs of the findings over at Computational Story Lab&gt;
When you have Justin Bieber and Leonardo DiCaprio driving your cars, you must be doing something right. They are among the Hollywood glitterati who have bought into the dream of Fisker Automotive and its gas-thrifty, rule-breaking Karma that kicks sand in the face of Detroit and the world's top luxury automakers. When some of the auto industry elite were treating eco-friendly cars with disdain, dismissing them as largely unprofitable and giving them boxy, unappealing looks, upstart Fisker broke through with a luxury plug-in hybrid sedan. Its sleek body raised eyebrows, while its ability to eschew a drop of gasoline for the first 33 miles or more of daily driving pleased the mileage-minded. Yet with a year of deliveries of its first model behind it, Fisker -- maker of sexy hybrid sedans -- enters 2013 with a raft of problems. For starters, Fisker can't make any more cars until its battery supplier is up and running again. That supplier, A123 Systems, just went up for grabs in U.S. Bankruptcy Court. A Chinese firm won the bidding, but it's not yet clear if the bid will be challenged or whether A123 is willing to keep Fisker as a customer. Tony Posawatz, Fisker's third CEO in a year, warns that the company will run out of cars in the spring if it can't get more batteries and restart production. And that's not even the biggest challenge. There is the matter of finding more money to keep the operation going. The privately held company is scouring the world to link up with another automaker or find more investors. It wants to buttress the thousands who have already kicked in about $1.2 billion so it can start production in late 2014 or 2015 of its next model, a smaller, cheaper hybrid, which is expected to be a much bigger seller than the Karma. "We need financing or a partner," spokesman Russell Datz says. It had one investor, a big one, that got away -- the federal government. Fisker spent $193 million of a $528.7 million loan from the Department of Energy before the government blocked access to the loan in May, after Fisker failed to meet key government requirements. At least Fisker doesn't have Republican Mitt Romney kicking it around anymore. The former Massachusetts governor turned Fisker into a punching bag in questioning President Obama's spending policies during the 2012 presidential campaign. At one point he told Obama, "You pick the losers." Fisker is the brainchild of Henrik Fisker, who designed luxury cars for Aston Martin and BMW. With Fisker, he was intent on making a splash right from the start. Only months after launching his company, he showed up at the 2008 North American International Auto Show with a concept version of his initial model, the Karma, a four-seat hybrid that was meant to compete with the likes of Jaguar and Mercedes-Benz. It was a bold move to show up on Detroit's turf with little more than a dream for the biggest auto show of the year. But Fisker was soon attracting big backers. Venture capital showed up with big money, including Silicon Valley firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield&amp; Byers. Then Fisker landed the biggest backer of all, the federal government, with a massive loan that came with strings attached -- the threat that the money spigot would be shut off if the company didn't hit certain undisclosed milestones. Fisker set up his headquarters and design studio in Orange County, Calif., just south of Los Angeles and not far from the celebrity customers he would later seek to woo. He began work on the Karma, which was expected to sell for about $87,000, and a smaller, second model, named Atlantic, which would sell for about $55,000 and be built at a former General Motors factory in Delaware. Lacking the raft of engineers and infrastructure of the big automakers, Fisker plotted an unconventional path to get his first model to market fast. He outsourced many of the major systems instead of engineering a lot of the car in-house, and would have the Karma built in Finland on a contract basis by a firm called Valmet. The engine, for instance, came from GM and the hybrid system from an Orange County company, Quantum Technologies. Since Karma deliveries began in 2011, the price has zoomed to $103,000 to $116,000, further limiting potential customers. Plus, the car had its share of start-up issues. It has been recalled three times. Last August, Fisker reported the potential for a cooling fan to short, causing a fire. And earlier in the year, Fisker said it had to replace batteries in 2012 models because of a manufacturing error in the battery by A123. A fire in Sugar Land, Texas, was blamed, at least initially, on the Fisker parked in a garage. And Fisker received more bad press when more than a dozen of its cars caught fire in a storage yard in New Jersey after being submerged during Superstorm Sandy. All told, Fisker lost 338 new cars in storage to the storm, limiting some of the color and trim choices available at its 36 dealers, says Fisker spokesman Roger Ormisher. It didn't help matters that the Karma was rated at only 54 miles per gallon, despite its ability to run on electric power alone for up to 50 miles. (After that, the car's gas engine kicks in for a 300-mile range on a tankful of gas.) A plug-in Chevrolet Volt sedan, which retails for less than half that of a Karma, is rated at 94 mpg equivalent (mpg-e) and Ford Motor reported Friday that it expects its new plug-in Fusion Energi sedan will garner a 100 mpg-e rating. Plus, the Karma, which sacrifices some interior to its batteries, was rated as a subcompact by the government even though on the outside it's as large as a full-size car. Some reviews haven't been kind. Consumer Reports magazine, which plunked down $107,850 to buy a Karma for testing in September, hasn't fully reviewed the car yet but reported in a blog posting that the car is "full of flaws" and that its engine has an "unrefined roar." It blasted the sedan as cramped, with poor visibility and a poor instrument layout. Others think Fisker is getting a bad rap. "I would never count these guys out," says Ron Cogan, publisher of the Green Car Journal. Sure, there are glitches, but major automakers often face some of the same setbacks in creating a new model. Ford, for instance, just recalled 89,153 of its 2013 Fusion and Escape models because their prized 1.6-liter turbocharged EcoBoost engines could have potentially caught on fire without a software patch. "They are not perfect machines, but they are as close to perfect as you can make them," Cogan says of Fisker. "They are facing issues like any other car company. Much of it has been politicized ... (and) that draws even more attention." The Karma is a "high-end car aimed at a high-end market." Its ability to attract star power with "unmistakable" styling is proof that Fisker at least nailed the looks, Cogan says. To market its cars, Fisker harnessed the potential of Hollywood. Fisker announced in July that DiCaprio was not only a Fisker owner but an equity investor, and that Fisker was participating in the actor's charitable foundation. DiCaprio, one of the first celebrity owners of a Toyota Prius, has long been one of the marquee names when it comes to showing up at high-profile events in eco-friendly cars. The car got even bigger attention in July when pop singer Bieber was cited for reckless driving by the California Highway Patrol on the 101 freeway in Los Angeles. The chromed car was an 18th-birthday gift to the teen idol from his manager -- presented to Bieber on The Ellen DeGeneres Show. On a rainy night during November's Los Angeles Auto Show, Fisker sought to cash in on its star power by throwing a bash at the Santa Monica home of TV personality Lisa Ling, but it became just as much a showcase for the brand's challenges. At the house, Henrik Fisher urged owners and press to dismiss the naysayers, saying there is everything to love about a plug-in car that drives gas-free for up to 50 miles. (The EPA rates Karma's electric-only range at 33 miles.) He said sales showed promise in the Middle East. And he urged everyone to take a peek in the garage to see the company's future, the Atlantic, looking very much like a slightly smaller version of the Karma. In the living room, however, Posawatz was candid about the struggles. The longtime GM executive who headed the Chevrolet Volt extended-range electric car program there took the top job at Fisker last summer, about six months after former Chrysler executive Tom LaSorda had taken the reins. In particular, Posawatz was talking about the problem of finding a source for the batteries in the Karma. Without a restart of A123's production, Fisker will simply run out of cars to sell. At the auction for A123 Systems last month, Wanxiang Group outbid American rivals with a bid of $256.6 million for the defunct battery maker. But the U.S. government, through the Committee on Foreign Investment, would need to approve the deal that could transfer technology to China, home to a vibrant and emerging auto culture. Until the battery issue is resolved, Karma production has been halted at about 2,500, far from the 15,000 cars a year that Fisker had predicted it would be selling when it was getting off the ground. Before the recent holidays, Posawatz embarked on a tour of Europe to try to find a partner or rustle up investors for Fisker Automotive. In addition, the company has engaged Evercore, an investment banking firm with expertise in restructuring, for the search. Posawatz has denied Fisker will file for a bankruptcy restructuring, but the search underscores the company's troubles. It has also gone into cost-saving mode: Its workforce, which peaked in 2011 at about 600, has been cut in half. Fisker's challenges seem to underscore the realities of automaking that have dissuaded newcomers since the days of Tucker. "The automotive industry is pretty old school," says Rebecca Lindland, the New York-based research director for consulting firm IHS Automotive. "It's not this glam, newfangled industry, but, man, is it an expensive place to live." Automakers constantly underestimate capital requirements, she says. Even established automakers are constantly wheeling and dealing with each other to share plants or models, or find other ways to cut capital costs. Fisker, on the other hand, arrives as basically a boutique maker that can't achieve those scales of operation. "Fisker is finding that even if things are going well, you still need billions of dollars," Lindland says. In the end, she says it's the basics that matter -- management, personality and marketing -- despite all the hype. Even then, "not everyone can win. We are going to have failures." With a little help from DiCaprio, Bieber and other fans of plug-in cars, Fisker is working to remain one of the survivors. 
Matt Cardy/Getty ImagesToday, retailers report same store sales figures for the month of December. Many feared this holiday season saw unusually sales in recent years, so today's numbers are important to watch. An early read put holiday sales growth at just 0.7 percent ‚Äì the weakest figure since 2008, when the country was in recession. So far this morning, however, the numbers don't look so bad. All of the stocks are getting a nice boost in pre-market trading. We are covering the releases LIVE as retailers report December same store sales figures throughout the day. Click here for updates &gt;
WikipedaThere are a lot of "rules" in the stock market that don't seem to die because more often than not, they work. Take for instance the S&amp;P 5-day rule, which comes from the Stock Market Almanac.† According to the rule, the S&amp;P 500 ends the year positive if it ends the first five trading days of the year positive. It has worked between 80 to 90 percent of the time. And it worked last year. And according to Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services Director of Floor Operations, traders are chatting about it again. From this morning's Cashin's Comments: What Does Wednesday's Rally Indicate? ñ Lots of folks tried to extrapolate Wednesday's rally to indicator status.† As Steven Russolillo of the WSJ notes, the predictability provided by the action of the first trading day of the year is about the same as a coin flip ñ it's right 50% of the time. The first five days of trading, however, have a more discernible record.† According to the very helpful Traders Almanac, the last 39 times the market rose in the first five days, it closed up on the year 33 times (84.69%).† So stay tuned.
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner always made the impounding of her country's warship, the ARA Libertad, a populist issue ó now it's a feel good movie (h/t FT Alphaville). It's simply titled: Primeras im·genes desde la Fragata Libertad en su regreso a la Argentina, or The First images from the ARA Libertad on its way to Argentina. Argentina won its boat back from hedge fund manager Paul Singer who, along with other unpaid holders of Argentine sovereign debt, got a order from a Ghanaian Court to detain the boat when it was docked in a Ghanaian port back in October. Argentina won't pay the bondholders (or, "vultures, as the Preisdent calls them) because they've refused two opportunities to restructure their debt since 2005 and are looking to make 100 cents on the dollar on their investment. The bond issue rages on in a NYC Appeals Court, but the boat matter was settled with International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea in December. So now the ARA's crew is going home after having been stuck in a Ghanaian port for months. It wasn't easy, to be sure, Ghanaian officials once tried to board the boat (the Argentine's drew their guns) and eventually shut off water to the 40-person skeleton crew aboard. Perhaps that's why Argentina's equivalent of the White House (La Casa Rosada ó The Pink House) felt this epic 2 minute commercial/movie with its gorgeous shots of the boat and the sea, it's fiery rhetoric from President Fernandez in the background, and the touching personal stories of the crew was completely in order. The music is nothing to sneeze at either. Here's what Fernandez is saying: I have ordered the Ministry of Defense that the ARA Libertad return to the Port of Mar de Plata so that all Argentine's can see the ARA Libertad which is also their liberty! The crew, via webcast, is essentially saying hello to their country, talking about how excited they are, and sending shout-outs to their family members (one guy mentions his wife Veronica and his newborn son). Another crew member says they're about halfway home at the time of the recording. So if you feel like getting the same feeling you get when you watch the end of Rudy (err maybe if you close your eyes), watch the video below: 
It's no secret that Wall Street doesn't understand, or have much respect, for the way things are being handled in Washington. That's the topic of Bloomberg Businessweek's lead story this week, and the cover of the magazine is definitely brutal ó screaming, diapered babies all over Congress. Bloomberg Businessweek: 
Image: APIt's a busy morning already for Gap investors. Shares are already up more than 5 percent in pre-market trading. The company said same store sales rose 5 percent in December from a year ago, alleviating concerns that retail sales were especially weak this Christmas. Growth figures nearly across the board were favorable compared to last year, per the release: Gap also announced another $1 billion share buyback. This follows the $1 billion buyback the company completed in the fourth quarter of 2012. Finally, the company announced the acquisition of Intermix ‚Äì an online high-end women's clothing store ‚Äì for $130 million in cash. Below is more on the acquisition as detailed in the press release: INTERMIX operates 32 boutiques across North America, along with an e-commerce site, offering a mix of luxury brands including up-and-coming designers for customers seeking elevated fashion. Gap Inc. sees an opportunity to expand INTERMIX‚Äôs unique network of stores, as well as add significant visibility and enhancements to its online site. ‚ÄúINTERMIX has a distinctive position in this growing market with clear competitive advantage,‚Äù said Glenn Murphy, chairman and CEO of Gap Inc. ‚ÄúTheir record of merchandising with a keen eye towards mixing multiple designer labels, complemented with exclusive product, is appealing to their loyal customers. This strategy reflects the strength of their brand vision and leadership team.‚Äù This acquisition extends Gap Inc.‚Äôs portfolio of brands, building upon the success of the company‚Äôs acquisition of Athleta in 2008 and the multi-brand, premium product offering at Piperlime. With Gap Inc.‚Äôs guidance over the past four years, Athleta has grown from its origins as a catalog business to expand through a strong e-commerce platform and brick and mortar presence, with about 35 retail stores opened in the past two years. On balance, markets like the news.
MTAPhotos / FlickrWeekly initial jobless claims are out and it's a miss on two counts. First, claims jumped to 372k, which was higher than the 360k economists were looking for. Second, last week's number was revised up to 362k from a preliminary reading of 350k. This caused the 4-week moving average to be revised up to 360,000 from last week's 359,750. From the Department of Labor: SEASONALLY ADJUSTED DATA In the week ending December 29, the advance figure for seasonally adjusted initial claims was 372,000, an increase of 10,000 from the previous week's revised figure of 362,000. The 4-week moving average was 360,000, an increase of 250 from the previous week's revised average of 359,750. The advance seasonally adjusted insured unemployment rate was 2.5 percent for the week ending December 22, unchanged from the prior week's unrevised rate. The advance number for seasonally adjusted insured unemployment during the week ending December 22 was 3,245,000, an increase of 44,000 from the preceding week's revised level of 3,201,000. The 4-week moving average was 3,224,250, an increase of 6,500 from the preceding week's revised average of 3,217,750. UNADJUSTED DATA The advance number of actual initial claims under state programs, unadjusted, totaled 495,588 in the week ending December 29, an increase of 40,459 from the previous week. There were 540,057 initial claims in the comparable week in 2011. The advance unadjusted insured unemployment rate was 2.6 percent during the week ending December 22, a increase of 0.1 percentage point from the prior week's unrevised rate. The advance unadjusted number for persons claiming UI benefits in state programs totaled 3,293,218, an increase of 43,722 from the preceding week. A year earlier, the rate was 3.0 percent and the volume was 3,779,025. The total number of people claiming benefits in all programs for the week ending December 15 was 5,402,987, a decrease of 68,727 from the previous week. There were 7,223,309 persons claiming benefits in all programs in the comparable week in 2011. Extended Benefits were not available in any state during the week ending December 15. Initial claims for UI benefits filed by former Federal civilian employees totaled 1,732 in the week ending December 22, an increase of 52 from the prior week. There were 2,575 initial claims filed by newly discharged veterans, an increase of 1 from the preceding week. There were 22,220 former Federal civilian employees claiming UI benefits for the week ending December 15, an increase of 1,125 from the previous week. Newly discharged veterans claiming benefits totaled 39,789, a decrease of 772 from the prior week. States reported 2,065,706 persons claiming EUC (Emergency Unemployment Compensation) benefits for the week ending December 15, a decrease of 30,537 from the prior week. There were 2,932,561 persons claiming EUC in the comparable week in 2011. EUC weekly claims include first, second, third, and fourth tier activity. The highest insured unemployment rates in the week ending December 15 were in Alaska (6.6), Puerto Rico (3.9), New Jersey (3.8), Pennsylvania (3.8), Montana (3.6), California (3.4), Nevada (3.4), Oregon (3.4), Connecticut (3.3), and Wisconsin (3.3). The largest increases in initial claims for the week ending December 22 were in Ohio (+8,795), Michigan (+6,641), Pennsylvania (+5,530), Kentucky (+4,745), and Massachusetts (+4,330), while the largest decreases were in California (-11,789), West Virginia (-473), Florida (-450), Arizona (-192) and South Dakota (-186).
AP ImagesU.S. futures have been down slightly for most of the morning with Dow futures down 24 points and S&amp;P futures down 3.6 points. After the bullish ADP employment number, futures cut their losses by about half. Dow futures are now down 13 points.¬† S&amp;P futures are down 0.7 point.
Instagram/dagirlamz The ADP jobs report is a preview of the official Non-Farm Payrolls report, which comes out tomorrow. ADP says 215K private sector jobs were created in December. That's 50% higher than the 140K that was expected. It's also a huge beat vs. last month. The full report can be found here. Here's a chart showing the monthly gains. ADP ¬†And here's a breakdown by industry.  ¬†
Gruesome Daily News cover slamming John Boehner for failing to hold a vote over Sandy aide. Daily News † If you missed it yesterday, Chris Christie delivered a withering takedown of Christie.
There has been a lot of talk about the death of the TV business over the past 10 years, including on this site. (I myself, for example, have written several articles on this topic.) And the TV business is indeed beginning to change in ways that will change the status quo for TV companies, especially networks. But those changes are happening slowly. And in the meantime, it's business as usual in the TV industry, which means coining money at a rate that is almost unfathomable to anyone who works in the print or digital-media or even radio businesses. Case in point? A cable TV network that no one watched, Al Gore's Current TV, just sold for $500 million. Okay, it's an exaggeration to say that no one watched Current, although that's exactly what the network's best-known host, Eliot Spitzer, recently told the New York Times' Brian Stelter, but it's not an exaggeration to say that Current's ratings were lousy. The ratings were so lousy, in fact, that the network was at risk of getting dropped by Time Warner Cable. Nor was the programming that Current TV produces attractive to its new buyer, the Qatar-owned news organization Al Jazeera. According to Stelter, Al Jazeera plans to "shut Current" and replace it with another news network, Al Jazeera America. So, why, exactly, did Al Jazeera pay $500 million for Current TV if no one watches Current and Al Jazeera plans to just shut the whole thing down? Because Al Jazeera wanted access to America's TV viewers--specifically, the cable distribution contracts that enable Current to be watched in tens of millions of American households. Even after Time Warner dumped Current instantly because of the sale, Current is available in about ~30 million American households. That's more households than, say, another recent entrant into the US cable news business, BBC, which is available in 25 million houses. So Al Jazeera's purchase of Current, in other words, was similar to buying a crappy airline for its airport landing rights (distribution) rather than its brand or customers or current business. Of course, those cable distribution agreements will all come up for renewal at some point. And there is already a knee-jerk reaction by some cable systems (including, it appears, Time Warner, which deprived New York of watching BI editor Joe Weisenthal last night) to carrying a network that is still associated with the airing of the anti-American rants of the mass-murderer Osama Bin Laden in the years after 9/11. So it would not be surprising to see other cable systems drop Al Jazeera over time, even if the company does manage to produce a cable news channel that Americans want to watch (there are already a lot of cable news channels, and Americans don't care much about international news, which is where Al Jazeera might have an edge). Unlike most of America's other cable networks, Al Jazeera also can't "bundle" its new network with other networks that Americans want to watch--ESPN, for example--and force the cable systems to take it. So, unless it was hallucinating (which, frankly, it may well be), Al Jazeera can't have been confident that it will successfully preserve, much less expand, this distribution without shelling out a good deal more money in distribution payments. Which means that Al Jazeera may have just paid $500 million for, well, nothing. And $500 million, it's worth noting, is a lot more than some once-proud newspaper companies are selling for these days. And it's a lot more than the most successful digital news organization, Huffington Post, sold for a couple of years ago ($300 million). The proprietor of Current TV, meanwhile, former Vice President Al Gore, will reportedly walk away with a tidy $100 million, which is a boatload more than, say, the phenomenally successful digital news mogul Arianna Huffington walked away with. So, to sum up: A cable network that no one watches just sold for $500 million. Let's hope we all die the way the TV industry is dying! SEE ALSO: * For Whom Does The Bell Toll? It Tolls For TV* Don't Mean To Be Alarmist, But The TV Business May Be Starting To Collapse
Flickr/NavegNOTE: Earlier, we reported that jobs cuts were at the lowest level since 1997.¬† To clarify, "the year ends with the lowest 12-month job-cut total since 1997," reports Challenger. Announced job cuts totaled 32,556 in December, reports Challenger Gray &amp; Christmas.¬† This is down 22 percent from a the same period a year ago, and down 43 percent from November. It's worth noting that this report tends to be volatile.¬† For example, last month's number spiked in the wake of the Hostess bankruptcy. From the release: CHICAGO, January 3, 2013 ‚Äì After three consecutive months of increased layoff activity, the number of planned job cuts announced in December plunged to 32,556, the second lowest monthly total of 2012. Overall, the year ends with the lowest 12-month job-cut total since 1997, according to the latest report from global outplacement consultancy Challenger, Gray &amp; Christmas, Inc. The 32,556 planned job cuts announced last month were 43 percent fewer than the 57,081 November cuts. The December total was 22 percent lower than a year ago, when employers announced 41,785 in the final month of the year. The only month in 2012 to see fewer job cuts than December was August, when job cuts totaled 32,239. Despite the December decline, planned layoffs in the fourth quarter were up 33 percent from the previous quarter. Employers announced 137,361 job cuts in the final three months of year, compared to 102,910 in the third quarter. The third-quarter total was the lowest quarterly total since 81,568 job cuts were announced in the second quarter of 2000. Due in large part to the slow pace of downsizing in the third quarter, annual job cuts totaled 523,362, which is the lowest year-end total since 1997, when employers announced 434,350 job cuts during the year. The 2012 total was 14 percent lower than the 606,082 job cuts announced in 2011. ‚ÄúWe saw a few spikes in monthly job cuts in 2012 and there were some significant mass layoffs that definitely reminded us that not every industry is enjoying the fruits of recovery. However, the overall pace of downsizing was at its slowest since the end of the recession. In fact, we have not seen this level of job cutting since before the dot.com collapse and subsequent 2001 recession,‚Äù said John A. Challenger, chief executive officer of Challenger, Gray &amp; Christmas. One of these significant mass layoffs occurred in December, when banking giant Citigroup announced 11,000 job cuts early in the month. The Citigroup announcement accounted for the majority of the 11,355 job cuts announced last month in the financial sector, which was the top job-cutting sector in December. The transportation sector was a distant second with 4,844 job cuts. The leading job-cut sector for the year was the computer industry, with a total of 46,164 announced layoffs since January. That marks a 215 percent increase from 2011, when these firms announced 14,677 job cuts. It is worth noting that nearly 60 percent of the computer cuts in 2012 were the result of the May job-cut announcement from Hewlett-Packard impacting 27,000 workers. The transportation sector, which was the second leading job-cut sector in December, was also the second largest job cutter for the year. The 42,107 job cuts announced by these firms in 2012 were up 189 percent from 14,584 planned cuts in 2011. While a handful of industries experienced increased downsizing in 2012, several sectors, including construction, retail, financial services, and aerospace and defense saw decreased job-cut activity. Perhaps the most dramatic decline occurred in the government sector, where job cuts plunged 90 percent from an industry-leading 183,064 in 2011 to just 19,128 in 2012. ‚ÄúThe fact that the top job-cutting industry in 2011 shed nearly 190,000 workers while the top job cutter this year did not even crack 50,000 reveals a lot about where we are in this recovery. Despite the uncertainty related to the fiscal cliff, which has now been averted thanks to a last-minute deal, employers held steady in the final months of the year and avoided a surge in mass layoffs,‚Äù said Challenger. ‚ÄúOf course, we are hardly out of the woods. The deal struck on Tuesday will do little to impact the nation‚Äôs soaring debt and new battles over the debt limit and broader government spending cuts still lie ahead. As a result, the country‚Äôs employers may still lack the confidence to move forward with more aggressive hiring plans in 2013,‚Äù he added. According to the latest available data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, private-sector payrolls achieved net gains averaging 154,000 new workers each month through November 2012. Overall, private-sector employment increased by 1,697,000 new workers from January through November. That remains well off the pre-recession peak, which in 2005, saw private-sector payrolls increase by an average of 193,000 new workers per month for an annual total of 2,312,000 new jobs. ‚ÄúFriday‚Äôs report on December employment could show a hiring boost from construction and other new jobs related to post-hurricane clean-up efforts on the East Coast. Late holiday season hiring may also show up in retail employment numbers. However, with one report indicating that holiday retail sales were weaker than expected, we could see a purging of retail workers in future employment reports,‚Äù said Challenger. ‚ÄúThis seasonal house-cleaning in the retail sector is unlikely to show up in our job-cut tracking, since most of the jobs were temporary in nature and the cuts go unannounced. However, we could see plenty of early-year job cuts announced in other sectors. Historically, January is, on average, the biggest job-cut month of the year, and several sectors, including computer, financial services, consumer products, transportation and aerospace and defense are at risk due to a high potential for reduced spending by consumers, businesses and government in 2013,‚Äù Challenger noted. In 20 full years of tracking since 1993, January has been the top job-cut month of the year nine times. The next closest month is December, which has been the top job-cut month just three times. Since 1993, job cuts have averaged 101,084 in January. The second largest monthly average over the same period is 80,321 job cuts in October.
Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.

If you thought stocks beat bonds in 2012, you're not completely correct. Here's an interesting chart from Bloomberg BRIEF economist and chart guru Michael McDonough. It shows that the world's high yield bonds (i.e. junk bonds) generated higher returns than the world's stock markets. @M_McDonough
Wikimedia CommonsFrom Dan Greenhaus at BTIG, a little perspective on just how amazing the rally has been since last Friday: †Between Monday and today, the S&amp;P 500 is up a whopping 4.3% which, if you can believe it, makes this two day rally better than all but 1% of two day rallies dating back to 1990. At the same time, the VIX underwent one of its largest two day declines, if not the largest. Interestingly though, the rally was led by the Telecom sector. We imagine this will be credited to enthusiasm about the (relative) positive outcome for dividend taxes however the Utilities sector, another high payer, was the dayís worst performer, up ìonlyî 1.8%. Cyclicals outperformed on the back of gains in steel names (X +9%) and industrials (ETN, CAT, IR). You might have missed it but the Russell 2000 closed at an all time high of 873.42, up 2.83% today but the EEM, up five days in a row, has a relative strength index (RSI) up around ìquestionableî levels. Just something to keep in mind. Markets are lower today, but it's not dramatic, and barely does anything to give up what we've seen so far this week.
Pretty much every since the fiscal cliff deal, the euro has been getting clobbered. Last night, and again this morning, the currency took two sharp move downs. And these were on top of euro selloffs earlier in the day Wednesday. From FinViz:  It's not totally clear what it is. Part of it may be dollar strength (rising rates, expectations that the Fed will be on hold for a shorter period of time than assumed). But this seems to be partly just a Euro story. Most of the data is good in Europe, and France just sold bonds at a record-low rate.
Two big reports that will gauge the health of the labor market come out today. From Calculated Risk: ‚Ä¢ At 8:15 AM, The ADP Employment Report for December will be released. This report is for private payrolls only (no government). The consensus is for 150,000 payroll jobs added in December. This is the third report using the new methodology, and the report last month (118,000) was somewhat close to the BLS report for private employment (the BLS reported 147,000 private sector jobs added in November). ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for claims to increase to 363 thousand from 350 thousand last week. On Friday we get the Non-Farm Payrolls report (the jobs report) and perhaps most surprisingly, there seems to be zero interested in it, publicly, perhaps due to the end of the election, the focus on the Fiscal Cliff, and the fact that the economy seems to be on a more stable footing.
What a weird time we live in. Gerard Depardieu, who is leaving France over high taxes, is now... Russian. And the government just announced it in a tweet. Vladimir Putin signs order giving G√©rard Depardieu Russian citizenship In a separate statement, Putin apparently called Depardieu a "friend."
Since most people are complaining about the fiscal agreement, I'll point out a few positives ... first, remember the "fiscal cliff" was about too much austerity too quickly. The "fiscal cliff" included expiring tax cuts (income, payroll), expiring spending (unemployment insurance, etc.) and the "sequester" (mostly defense spending cuts). The sequester has been delayed for two months, so we don't know the size of the cuts yet, but ... 1) There was an agreement, and earlier in January than I expected! 2) It appears the amount of austerity will not drag the economy into a new recession. I would argue for a different mix of policies, but reducing the amount of austerity was achieved - and this was a key goal for the fiscal agreement. 3) Although long term debt sustainability is still an issue, the deficit is declining right now - and will decline further in 2013. David Wessel at the WSJ wrote about the declining deficit a few weeks ago: Putting the Brakes on Cutting the Deficit The deficit‚Äîthe difference between government revenue and spending‚Äîis shrinking even before the year-end fiscal cliff or a last-minute compromise to avoid it. In the depths of the most recent recession, the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 2009, the deficit was 10.1% of gross domestic product, the value of all the goods and services produced. Since then, the deficit has declined to 9% of GDP in 2010, 8.7% in 2011 and 7.0% in fiscal 2012. Private analysts predict the deficit will be between 5.5% and 6.0% of GDP in fiscal 2013, depending on the outcome of the budget talks. We still don't know the details of the sequester, but I expect the deficit to be close to 5.5% of GDP this year. Still high, but improving. Unfortunately there are some longer term issues, especially with health care, but in the short term the deficit is moving in the right direction - and will decline further as the economy improves.4) We don't have to look at those dumb countdown timers for a couple of months.
Here's a day you have to circle in your calendar: March 1, 2013. Make sure you pre-block off all of your other social engagements, because you're going to want to be around a computer and a TV. First, that's the day that the "sequestration" (mandatory spending cuts) go into effect. But beyond that, it looks like that will also be the day that the debt ceiling hits, according to Goldman's Alec Philips: While the timing is always hard to predict, at this point it appears that the Treasury will exhaust its financing capacity by March 1, when it must make a number of large monthly payments, particularly related to Social Security and Medicare. Congress will need to raise the debt limit by that point if it has not already. While a failure to raise the debt limit should not have implications for the Treasury's ability to make interest payments or to redeem existing securities, it could lead to a sharp reduction in spending, including fiscal transfers to individuals, payments to contractors, and payment of tax refunds which tend to be fairly heavy during this period.¬†  The clock is ticking. Oh, and Goldman thinks this debt ceiling fight will be worse than the last one &gt;
Bushcamp CompanyIt's not too dramatic, but some of the Clifforia we got on Monday and Wednesday is fading. US futures are a moderately lower. Spain is down 0.9%. Italy is off 0.3%. Germany is down 0.18%. All these countries had ridiculously big rallies yesterday, so this isn't too big of an issue. We get labor data in the US today, including Challenger layoffs, ADP, and initial jobless claims.
