China exerts a massive amount influence on commodity markets.¬† It is said to account for 40 percent of base metal consumption and 23 percent of major agricultural commodities, according to an IMF working paper by Shaun Roache. It's an even bigger market for commodities than the U.S. And since a Chinese hard landing isn't completely off the table, it's worth considering how this would impact commodities. In a new note titled "What If China Lands Hard?" Societe Generale's head of commodities research, Michael Haigh writes, that a Chinese hard landing would both lower demand and hurt investor confidence, thereby delivering a double blow to the price of commodities. Societe Generale Gold In a hard landing scenario, some expect all commodities to plunge uniformly. Even gold prices could plunge because China is the second largest consumer of gold. However, gold's reaction is not so obvious. Haigh writes, that the impact on gold was the most difficult to forecast. Their model suggests that a significant drop in Chinese PMIs (which they use as a proxy for a hard landing) would send gold prices surging 15 percent in the first quarter after a hardlanding to $1,963 per ounce. Gold he points out would be the only commodity to experience this initial rally. But it would also decline rapidly after. This fall would be triggered by three key things: Patrick Legland, head of research at Societe Generale wrote that investors polled on the impact of a Chinese hard landing on commodities and stocks were most uncertain about the impact on gold price.¬† The average response was for a 5 percent decline, while Asian investors in particular expected a 21 percent decline. A third of those polled thought gold prices would rise in a hard landing scenario. Copper As for Dr. Copper, it is more sensitive to Chinese PMIs than U.S. PMIs considering China consumes five times as much copper as the U.S.. "Importantly, copper prices no longer lead PMI movements, but follow them," according to Haigh. "This means we can use our economist‚Äôs 3% Chinese hard landing GDP scenario ‚Äì which implies a 40% drop in PMIs - to forecast the demand shock impact on commodity prices..." In this scenario, copper prices are projected to fall from $8,000/tonne to about $4,500/tonne one quarter after a hard landing. Base metals as a whole are projected to decline about 50 percent. Zinc prices are expected to fall to $1,150 per tonne one quarter after the Chinese hard landing, from $2,010/t. Lead prices are projected to fall to $1,250/t, from $2,283/t. Nickel is projected to fall to $10,000/t, from $17,190/t. Finally, tin is projected to fall to $12,000/t from $23,743/t. Meanwhile, oil is projected to drop to about $77 per barrel¬†one quarter after the Chinese hard landing, from current price of about $111 per barrel.
The hardest part of investing can be learning when to get out of your own way.¬† As human beings, we are emotional, impressionable, and often a lot less savvy when it comes to investing than we think. That can spell disaster for portfolios. After the fallout of the Great Recession, the SEC commissioned the Library of Congress to research¬†"Behavioral Patterns and Pitfalls of U.S. Investors," a study that shines a harsh light on the shortcomings of individual investors.¬† Using sources from this and other reports, we've highlighted the pitfalls.
Chinese exports surged 14.1 percent year-over-year (YoY) in December, beating expectations for a 5 percent rise (via Michael McDonough). Meanwhile, imports increased six percent YoY, ahead of expectations of a 3.5 percent rise. Trade balance widened to $31.6 billion, more than consensus of $20 billion. A breakdown by region showed that exports to the U.S. grew 9.6 percent YoY in December, from -2.6 percent in November. Exports to the EU rose 1.9 percent, after contracting 18 percent in November. Exports to Japan however slumped 6.9 percent.¬† *Bank of America's Ting Lu, named the third most accurate forecaster on the Chinese economy by Bloomberg, wrote in a note that both imports and exports have "bottomed out from their lows in mid-2012" Weakness in the U.S., Europe and Japan will continue to weigh on growth in these areas.  Hard landing watchers pay particular attention to the import data because it has a domestic demand component and offers insight on domestic demand growth as China attempts to rebalance its economy. Moreover, China is often criticized for doctoring its data, but its trade data is widely considered to be one of the most reliable economic indicators. This follows on some disappointing news about loans in December, which came in at 454.3 billion yuan, below estimates of 550 billion yuan. The Shanghai Composite is now up 0.61 percent. Original At 9 p.m. ET China will release its December trade data. Analysts polled by Bloomberg are looking for for imports to rise 3.5 percent year-over-year (YoY), exports to rise 5 percent YoY, and the trade balance to widen to $20 billion. This data would offer insight into whether China's economy really is picking up. Bloomberg BRIEF economist Michael McDonough tweeted this chart ahead of the data that gives us insight into its largest trading partners: Michael McDonough via Twitter ¬† *Note: Piece was updated at 11:15 p.m. to include comments from Ting Lu and a breakdown of export by region.  SEE ALSO: SocGen Offers A Surprising Forecast For Gold Under A Chinese Hard Landing Scenario &gt; 
Kristian Dowling/Getty Images Oprah Winfrey has announced that she will be doing an exclusive 90-minute interview with Lance Armstrong next week. According to Oprah's press release, "Armstrong will address the alleged doping scandal, years of accusations of cheating, and charges of lying about the use of performance-enhancing drugs throughout his storied cycling career." The interview is described as "no-holds barred." Last week, in a bizarre twist in the Armstrong story, the New York Times reported that Lance Armstrong was considering confessing everything to doping regulators in the hope that they would let him compete again. Following so closely on the heels of that report, it's hard to imagine that Lance Armstrong would sit down with Oprah for 90 minutes to make yet another vehement (and, at this point, absurd) denial--especially after saying he was never going to talk about any of this stuff again. (When Armstrong decided not to defend himself against the doping charges last summer, he issued the latest in a long string of furious denials and said that he was done talking about the past.) And Oprah certainly isn't going to fly all the way to Armstrong's house in Texas just to sit there and ask Armstrong how he's feeling. At least I hope she's not. So it seems reasonable to assume that the purpose of this interview is for Armstrong to finally confess to the doping allegations that he has denied and lied about for years. If so, good. And if this confession includes the first in a long string of apologies, all the better. Because Lance Armstrong owes a lot of people an apology. And a 90-minute interview with Oprah is probably a good place to start. (It's a much better place to start than the doping regulators: There are a lot more important things at stake here than whether Lance Armstrong ever competes in organized sports again.) For what it's worth, I've spelled out what I'd like to hear in this interview below. But first, some background. I was a huge Lance Armstrong fan. He was one of my heroes. The come-back-from-cancer-and-then-win-seven-Tours thing was just mind-bogglingly impressive and inspiring. As was Lance's charity work. In the early days of the doping scandal, I didn't care so much about it: To the extent that I thought about it, I assumed that everyone in the sport did it, and that you had to do it if you wanted to compete. Over the years, as more and more of the evidence came out, I just wanted to know the truth. I wanted to know whether it was even possible for a clean racer to compete against dozens of doped-up racers and still kick their asses year after year. I hoped that it was possible. How can you not hope stories like that are possible? And, for a while, because of Lance's fervent and furious denials, the answer to that question seemed to be "maybe." (Now, it's clear that the answer is obviously "no.") As time went on, and more and more of Lance's former teammates came forward and did the brave, bold, and right thing (tell the truth), I admired them for that. And, as Lance Armstrong himself greeted these confessions with more denials and vicious attacks, I gradually lost respect for him. Cycling is a team sport, and Armstrong never would have won those races without the work of his teammates. And for him to come out and trash them for doing nothing more than telling the truth seemed unbelievably selfish and mean. As I think about Lance Armstrong now, in fact, I realize that I'm less bothered by the doping than I am by his lying and trashing of his former teammates. I certainly don't condone the doping--it was cheating, and it hurt everyone who didn't dope (most of whom weren't in the peloton, because they couldn't compete)--but I understand it. When everyone you're competing against is doping, I imagine that it's easy to rationalize that doping is just part of the sport. But Armstrong didn't have to lie about it repeatedly. And he didn't have to trash his former teammates for telling the truth and try to destroy their reputations and careers. So, that's what I will be looking for when Oprah sits down with Lance Armstrong next week for what I expect will be a full-blown confession. I will be looking to hear the full doping story, yes. And I will be hoping that Armstrong takes full responsibility for the decisions he made while doing it--including basically insisting that his teammates do it, according to the USADA's allegations. But mostly I will be curious to see whether Armstrong 1) apologizes for lying and trashing his teammates and associates, and 2) appears genuinely sorry about doing it. Because until he does both of those things, I won't really feel like Lance Armstrong has learned anything. And I certainly won't see any reason to root for him again. SEE ALSO: Lance Armstrong Owes A Lot Of People An Apology
Japan update: We're back to recent trends, with the yen weakening and the Nikkei rallying. Today we got more headlines about stimulus, monetary measures, and all that, so it may be having an impact. 
The recent rally in China's Shanghai Composite has some people convinced that the market has bottomed. However, Bloomberg BRIEF economist Michael McDonough has identified a potential red flag.† From a tweet he just sent out: A lack of new investors in China may indicate that the ongoing rally is hollow. The number of funded brokerage accounts slipped to 55.1 million in the week ended Dec. 28, the lowest level since November 2010.† That was the fifth consecutive week of declines for funded accounts.† The drop in funded accounts may indicate that domestic investors don't expect the current rally to last. The number of funded accounts peaked the week ended June 24, 2011, at 57.3 million, more than 2 million accounts above the current level. Here's the chart: @M_McDonough Here's a six-month review of China's Shanghai Composite via Bloomberg. Bloomberg

Daniel Berehulak/Getty ImagesChina will announce its December trade data at 9 p.m. ET tonight.† Analysts polled by Bloomberg are looking for imports to rise 3.5 percent year-over-year (YoY), from 0 percent in November. Exports are expected to rise 5 percent YoY, compared to 2.9 percent in November. Meanwhile, trade balance is expected to widen to $20 billion. Bank of America's Ting Lu, whom Bloomberg ranked the third most accurate forecaster of the Chinese economy, expects imports to rise 3 percent and trade balance to widen to $19.7 billion.† He expects exports to rise 4.5 percent on the year as the blow from the strike in California has faded. The weakness in Europe and Japan makes him cautious on exports, but "the stabilization of export growth since 4Q12 could alleviate the fear of another global crisis and could convince exporters to rebuild inventories." Import and export data are considered to be some of the most reliable indicators of the Chinese economy because it is less at risk of statistical adjustments and can be verified by comparing it with trade numbers reported by other companies. Hard landing watchers pay close attention to import data because it has a tremendous domestic component and shows the state of domestic demand growth.
Here‚Äôs an update and upgrade to our mid-2011 post. Lots of noise and imperfections in the Fed‚Äôs Flow of Funds data but sure beats the alternative ‚Äì nothing.¬† The biggest caveat, in our opinion, is the data include holdings of foreign equities by U.S. residents so not a concise measure on how the U.S. stock market is allocated. ¬† Also note the household sector includes hedge funds and IRAs. The table below illustrates a large decline in the percentage of the equity market allocated to private pension funds.¬† No doubt there‚Äôs noise here and it may also be partially explained by demographics but the decline over the past twenty years is glaring. The data also show the growth of mutual funds and ETFs since 1990 as households have reduced holdings of individual stocks and increased allocation into these sectors. Global Macro Monitor Global Macro Monitor(click here if chart and tables are not observable) Read more posts on Global Macro Monitor ¬ª
There's no question: Today was a major game-changer for the movement to circumvent the debt ceiling by minting a platinum coin, a strategy that would take advantage of an arcane area of the law relating to coinage. Today White House press secretary Jay Carney was asked about whether The White House saw the coin as a viable option, and rather than shooting it down he just evaded the question. The response from the media has been unanimous: Carney left the door open. Here's the front of Marketwatch.com:  Here's HuffPo:  Here's POLITICO:  Brian Beutler at Talking Points Memo has the best take on what happened today: Today‚Äôs White House press briefing changes things. If I had to, I‚Äôd still bet against the Obama administration minting a platinum coin to meet payment obligations, even if we breach the debt ceiling. But that‚Äôs just a feeble attempt at mind reading. By contrast, the fact that Jay Carney neither foreclosed on the seigniorage option nor questioned its legality today is actually meaningful. Remember, he and Obama (and Obama‚Äôs lawyers) have explicitly rejected the argument that the 14th Amendment empowers the administration to ignore debt limit. They haven‚Äôt left themselves any wiggle room on that idea. Felix Salmon has a good post today on the game theory of #MintTheCoin (do you pre-announce that you might use it?). Clearly it's become part of the conversation. For more on today's historic press conference, see here &gt;
My latest visit to India coincided with the celebrations of Navratri culminating in the day of the Dussehra, which symbolizes the victory of good over evil as exemplified by Lord Ram killing the demon king Ravana. The festive season starts from the Navratri and continues until Diwali, several weeks later. In Delhi, my team and I had the privilege of attending one of the many Dussehra celebrations taking place all over the country, an event with some of India‚Äôs most prominent officials in attendance. When we arrived, the situation was a bit chaotic, with people milling about and pushing to get onto the grounds, but at the same time it was a festive atmosphere. Purveyors were offering local delicacies such as ‚Äúroller ice cream,‚Äù which is made by dripping an ice cream mixture over a hand operated roller filled with ice and salt, as well as the roomali roti bread (handkerchief bread) which is made by flattening a ball of dough and tossing it in the air to stretch to the thickness of a handkerchief, then baking it on a heated dome. At the celebration site, there were three 10-meter tall paper and wood effigies of Ravana and two of his family members with red blinking eyes. At the right moment, all the dignitaries were handed richly decorated bows and arrows which they shot in the direction of the effigies, symbolizing the Ram killing the three demon kings. A fireworks display followed, and the effigies went up in spectacular flames. This ceremony was duplicated all over Delhi and other cities in India. I think the most remarkable aspect of the ceremony was that although there were security people at the entrances, security was largely absent inside and near the official podium. As we traveled to and from the celebrations and to other meetings in India, to us it really brought home the burgeoning traffic crisis there. My team and I visited Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru (formerly known as Bangalore) and some more remote corners of the country during this trip. The migration of farmers from rural areas to cities combined with the explosion of car and motorcycle ownership is creating infrastructure bottlenecks, which won‚Äôt likely be cured quickly.¬† Motor Vehicles in India An Indian "tuk tuk" India appears to be on its way to becoming a major market for motor vehicles. Annual car and truck sales currently in India are roughly one third of the 15 million units produced in the U.S.,¬†but the pace of growth has been high.1 The total population of registered motor vehicles in India numbered more than 100 million in 2008- 2009, with consumer vehicles (passenger cars, motorcycles and scooters) accounting for about 4/5 of the total. Considering India‚Äôs population of 1.22 billion, if India had the same proportion of vehicles per capita as the U.S. (which numbers some 246 million vehicles 2)¬†it would require about 970 million automobiles!¬† I think the industry‚Äôs potential is easy to see. More prominent than cars and trucks in India are the two-wheelers (motorcycles and motor scooters) with annual sales running at about 14 million3 in addition to about a half million famous ‚Äútuk tuk‚Äù three-wheelers seen serving as open air taxis on the streets of India, Thailand and other parts of the emerging markets world. The infrastructure required to handle the swelling traffic is already bursting at the seams. Although there are about 5 million kilometers of roads in India, only a fraction are national or state highways or urban roads which would be considered of reasonable quality. 4 To get a better insight into the industry, we visited a large automobile manufacturing company in India, which produces both consumer and commercial vehicles. Production of one of its popular low-cost vehicles has been running about 9,000 units a month. I was surprised to learn from one of the executives that a large part of the firm‚Äôs revenues now came from recently acquired foreign brands. This is evidence of the trend we‚Äôve seen in the past few years, where many emerging market companies have been acquiring developed-market brands, or engaging in joint ventures. My team and I also visited another vehicle manufacturer which specialized in two-wheelers for more insight into India‚Äôs market for motor scooters and motorcycles. Annual sales were brisk not only in their domestic market but neighboring markets, as well as Africa. They also manufacture ‚Äúthree-wheelers,‚Äù which serve as taxis all over Asia. When we met with one of the founder‚Äôs sons at their corporate office and R&amp;D center, he reported being very focused on these more energy-efficient and space-saving forms of transport. In the past, it was difficult for India to compete against the Japanese in the vehicle market, but this company in particular seemed to have found some success. Its executives felt there were two reasons why people might choose a motorcycle over a car or other form of transportation: ¬†to commute and for sport. There has been a trend toward larger and faster motorcycles to satisfy not just the basic needs of commuters, but to also supply the excitement of a powerful and fast sport vehicle. Thus, they launched products with larger motors, and a premium brand name. From these visits, it is clear to me that India is motoring toward an interesting future, one filled with investment potential in infrastructure development and transportation. 1. Source ‚ÄúThe Auto Industry Shows Good Growth in 2010,‚Äù Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers Press Release (New Delhi: January 11, 2011), 2. Sources: United States Census Bureau, 2009;¬† ¬†U.S. Federal Highway Administration, Highway Statistics, annual. 3. Source: ‚ÄúIndian Two-Wheeler Industry,‚Äù ICRA, May 2012. ¬†‚Äù 4. Source: Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Government of India. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª
WealthTrack via YouTube"The highly accommodative policy stance being pursued by the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank (ECB) and other central banks should continue to bolster financial markets in 2013 despite fiscal policy drag and another year of subpar growth in the global economy," writes the global investment committee for Morgan Stanley Wealth Management. Led by Chief Investment Officer Jeff Applegate and Chief Investment Strategist David Darst, MSSB have put together the firm's list of 10 Investment Ideas for 2013. The firm isn't especially bullish on global growth prospects, but they believe central bank easing should prop up financial markets. Morgan Stanley's ideas are based off the following trends: We've provided the team's list of favored investments, the benchmarks used to track performance, and the rationale for each idea's inclusion.

A new PrivCo report says Foursquare will fail by the end of 2013. According to PrivCo's sources, Foursquare is missing venture capitalist's projections, and even its own projections, quarter after quarter. PrivCo thinks investors will get tired of this and sell their shares by year-end for less money than they initially invested. Specifically, PrivCo thinks Foursquare will be acquired for less than $50 million by the end of 2013, significantly less than the $71.3 million investors have pumped into it. Its reasoning is this: Aside from missing quarterly projections, PrivCo says Foursquare has struggled to raise a new round of financing for "nearly a year." More so, it says Foursquare's existing investors have "made it clear to Foursquare management including CEO Dennis Crowley that they will not be investing additional capital into Foursquare either." PrivCo says it's their way of warning Crowley that he must find a sustainable business model quickly. We have to assume the investors PrivCo is talking about are Union Square Ventures, a long-time investor in Foursquare, and Andreessen Horowitz, which led Foursquare's last round of financing and helped value the company at $550 million in July 2011. As further proof, PrivCo reads between the lines of a recent blog post written by Union Square Ventures' Fred Wilson, which stressed frustration with startups. Wilson wrote, "So if I can give entrepreneurs a single piece of advice for 2013 it would be to deliver on your promises. Not just to your investors but also to your team and ultimately to yourself. This is no time to be in denial. That is a lethal attribute in times like these." Union Square Ventures opted not to comment on PrivCo's report or its satisfaction with Foursquare's performance to date. We should note that Fred Wilson isn't the USV investor involved in Foursquare though. It's his partner, Albert Wenger, who is on Foursquare's board. PrivCo also used Foursquare's flat web traffic as a sign of bad times ahead. It says its website has hovered† between 2.2 million and 2.5 million monthly uniques for the past year and a half. "This shows that not only is Foursquare's audience too small for a consumer-oriented Internet company to attract meaningful ad dollars, but its web traffic numbers are flat, with no reversal on the horizon; this is a likely death spiral for a consumer social network," PrivCo writes. Of course, Foursquare is first and foremost a mobile app and it hasn't pushed particularly hard to increase monthly uniques to its website. The report does note that Foursquare's users logged 1.9 billion minutes on the app in 2012, up 15% from 2011 according to Nielsen. Foursquare also added 15 million new accounts this year, bringing its total users to nearly 30 million. There have been more than 3 billion check-ins to date on the app. What to make of it all? It's true that investors aren't keen on investing at the moment. It's also been reported that Foursquare only generated $2 million this year, which we have to assume is a big miss for both investors and the company. But in the report, PrivCo made some blatant errors. For one, it incorrectly named Dennis Crowley's co-founder, Naveen Selvadurai, "Naveen Jain." PrivCo makes money selling the business and financial research it collects on private companies. One way it seems to be making a name for itself is by publishing very negative reports about startups. It did this with Groupon and Facebook. (Then again, some of those reports proved to be accurate.)† If PrivCo is right, it means the investors that will take the biggest hits are Union Square Ventures, O'Reilly Alphatech Ventures, Ron Conway and David Lee's SV Angel, Bijan Sabet's Spark Capital, and Andreessen Horowitz. But they'll receive cash back before common stockholders see a dime. The person who would obviously get hit the hardest is Dennis Crowley, who's spent his entire life trying to solve one problem: finding his friends who are nearby. Foursquare declined to comment for this story. (PrivCo is a company that collects business and financial data on private companies)
wikimedia commonsThe theme of World Economic Forum's Global Risks 2013 report,¬†just out this week, is "resilience." It includes a new¬†a "national¬†resilience measurement" to determine which countries are best positioned to manage catastrophe.¬† But no country would be able to bounce back from some of the risks included in the survey. We picked out 13 of the more bizarre scenarios the Forum envisions.
A country's personal income tax rate is only one indicator of how much tax an individual actually ends up paying on their income, according to a report by KPMG. "Our broader analysis further emphasizes the point that other taxes and the impact of deductions clearly need to be considered...Interestingly, the difference between top tax rates and effective combined tax and employee social security rates shows that neither of the two countries with the largest top marginal tax rates (Aruba and Sweden) feature among the top five countries when we use either USD100,000 or USD300,000 as a basis for comparison," write the authors. "Whether social security is a true tax is a topic of continued debate, but in terms of cost, it can be material and should not be ignored." For someone with a gross income of $100,000 a year, these are the forty countries in which they would have to shell out the most for, tax and social security combined. The United States is much further down the list, being the 55th most expensive country on the list. Effective Income Tax and Social Security Rates on USD100,000 of Gross IncomeKPMG's Individual Income Tax and Social Security Rate Survey 2012, KPMG International Download the full infographic here. Here's what the same chart would look like for someone with a gross income of $300,000. The United States ranks a bit higher on this list, but only by the littlest bit, being the 53rd most expensive. For someone making the $300,000, France is the most expensive country in which one can live. This explains why French actor Gerard Depardieu, who earns way more than that, is renouncing his citizenship and might move to Russia. Effective IncomeTax and Social Security Rates on USD300,000 of Gross IncomeKPMG's Individual Income Tax and Social Security Rate Survey 2012, KPMG International Download the full infographic here.
Most observers of central banking in general ñ and Japanese economics in particular ñ are excited at the prospect that newly-elected Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo†Abe brings to his post. Abe has been very vocal about pumping fiscal stimulus into the economy in a bid to end Japan's decades-long struggle against deflation. He's also threatened to turn central banking upside down by stripping the Bank of Japan of its independence and revamping its mandate ñ an unprecedented move in the modern world. There is a good argument to be made that Abe is really just bluffing about the BoJ and pursuing more radical monetary policy. His background as a politician who has fought his whole career to move Japan to the right on social issues suggests that perhaps he is just talking down the yen, so to speak, just long enough to be able to shift his focus back to implementing the controversial social policies he seems to care so much about. Regardless of Abe's true intentions, though, the yen has, in fact, weakened dramatically since September: Bloomberg, Business Insider The argument goes that part of the magic of the yen's decline is a boost in competitiveness for Japan's big exporters ñ globally recognized brands in automotive and tech like Toyota, Honda, Sony, and the like. This, in turn, could finally get the moribund Japanese economy going and ultimately stoke a little inflation. However, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Chief Economist Nobuyuki Saji argues that those potential gains are overstated, and a much worse fate could belie the Japanese economy if the yen continues to weaken. In a note to clients entitled "Weaker yen could make Japan a nation of poor seniors," Saji writes: The fact that Japan has a trade deficit in everyday necessities means that a weaker yen will reduce the household sectorís real income. At the risk of exaggeration, we could say that depending on how far the yen depreciates, Japan could slip to the level of an impoverished country by becoming a poor importer. Let us look back on Japanís trade deficit in food, now about •5.3trn, and how it has changed due to food import prices and the •/$ rate over the past 15 years. There have been three yen-weakening phases since 1990. The first lasted from May 1995 to July 1998 and took the exchange rate from •83.2/$ to •143.7/$, which marked yen depreciation of 72.7%. The second lasted from December 1999 to February 2002 and saw the yen depreciate by 31.0%. The third lasted from November 2004 to June 2007 and saw the yen depreciate by 19.4%. Over these three phases, the yen-based import price of food rose by 28.1%, 19.0%, and 35.3%, respectively. Therefore, the rates at which importers were able to pass on higher costs in their selling prices were 38.6%, 61.1%, and 181.8%, respectively (change in import prices / change in yenís value).  The third yen-weakening phase occurred when the Chinese economy was very active (annualized GDP growth of 12.7%), causing grain prices to shoot up. Nevertheless, in the period since 1990, which largely overlaps with the peak-out (1992) and decline of Japanís economically productive age group, importers have been able to pass on an increasing proportion of forex-related price increases to their customers. This can only be because the production capacity of domestic companies making competing products has declined. Incidentally, in the yen-strengthening phase since June 2007, the yen has appreciated 35.4% while food import prices have declined by only a slight 5.0%. What about other everyday necessities such as textiles (clothing, etc.)? Since 1990, the rates at which importers have passed on forex-related price increases in yen-weakening phases have been 43.9%, 12.0%, and 62.5%, respectively. In the yen-strengthening phase since June 2007, textile prices have risen 0.2% even as the yen has strengthened by 35.4%. As with food, textile prices tend to rise in yen-weakening phases, but they resist decline in yen-strengthening phases. This is evident from 15 years of data. To sum all of that up, big downward moves in the value of the yen typically mean that Japanese consumers ñ increasingly comprised of aging seniors ñ pay up quite a bit more for food than they did before. Making matters worse is Japan's ballooning trade deficit in food ñ the Japanese are increasingly reliant on imports to feed themselves, making the declining value of the yen even more significant. We do not deny that a weaker yen would be positive for the earnings of Japanese companies, but in macroeconomic terms a weaker yen does not have the same export-boosting power that it used to. Instead, we must not overlook the fact that a weaker yen will raise the prices of everyday necessities and thus lower the real incomes of the Japanese people. Even as Japanese society ages, there is a limit to†how much people can cut back on consumption of goods where import dependence is high, such as food, clothing, and energy. We cannot rule out the possibility that the household savings rate will turn negative. Japanís ballooning fiscal deficit is starting to show signs of becoming unmanageable (rapidly rising national debt). The possibility is rising that trade deficits and current account deficits will become entrenched as the norm. If Japan is starting to face triple deficits, it means the United States and Japan have traded places and the weaker has become the stronger over the past 30 years. If Japan falls into triple deficits, we will have to prepare for drastic yen depreciation. Incidentally, the exchange rate we calculate based on PPP in manufactured products is •83/$, while the exchange rate we calculate based on PPP for the basket of CPI goods is •125/$ (comparing US and Japanese prices). That last bit about purchasing power parity is telling. When Saji calculates the dollar-yen exchange rate based on manufactured products ñ the domain of large Japanese exporters ñ it's very close to the official rate, which currently stands at •87.90 per dollar. However, the yen buys considerably less when looking at goods in the consumer price index basket ñ which is much more heavily weighted toward items like food, energy, and clothing. flickr / Takato Marui Abe would love it if those two exchange rates calculated by Saji were switched ñ but they're not. Weakening the yen in a bid to boost exports is a flawed strategy from the get-go, a remnant of the legacies of former Japanese prime ministers, including Abe's grandfather himself. In the process, Abe could end up leaving the Japanese economy in a much more dangerous position than before.
Everyone's making a huge deal out of the news that hedge fund manager Dan Loeb is long Herbalife. (And they should, because it means war with Pershing Square's, Bill Ackman). But in all our excitement over a good knock-down, drag-out hedge fund fight we shouldn't forget that Loeb's Third Point had a solid year (up 21.2%) thanks to its long positions in Greek government bonds, AIG, Yahoo, Murphy Oil Corp, and Delphi Corp. And it should also be noted that Loeb has picked up a long position in another one of today's news makers, Morgan Stanley. Earlier the bank announced that it would be cutting 1600 jobs, and the market liked it. Here's why Loeb likes Morgan: During the Fourth Quarter, we initiated a position in Morgan Stanley (MS), which we believe is in the early innings of a turnaround. The bank‚Äôs investment banking advisory and equity sales and trading businesses ‚Äì which we know well from our perspectives as both investors and long-time satisfied clients ‚Äì have consistently won top three market shares and are impressively positioned. Although MS has historically failed to capitalize on its strengths, its leadership currently is focused on growing its good businesses while consolidating and successfully fixing its previously troubled Wealth Management business. In 2013, we expect Morgan Stanley to tackle its other weak business, Fixed Income, Currency, and Commodities (FICC) sales and trading. Morgan Stanley's stock currently trades at a 20% discount to tangible book (down from a 35% discount when we acquired our stake at an average cost of $16.77 per share), and we view MS at these prices as a chance to buy a free call option on a promising restructuring. Loeb also tipped his hat to the bank's CEO James Gorman and said that he think has Morgan Stanley's management has the stuff to deal with the the company's problem areas. Plus, overall, the he thinks world's macro picture will improve, which is great for deals. We'll find out if that optimism shows up in Morgan's earnings next week.
Department of LaborSecretary of Labor Hilda Solis has resigned from the Obama administration, according to The Associated Press. Solis has served in the Obama administration since her confirmation in 2009, and she is the fifth member of the administration to leave Obama's Cabinet since he won re-election. In a statement released by the White House, Obama thanked Solis for her service. Here's Obama's full statement: Over her long career in public service ‚Äì as an advocate for environmental justice in California, state legislator, member of Congress and Secretary of Labor - Hilda Solis has been a tireless champion for working families. Over the last four years, Secretary Solis has been a critical member of my economic team as we have worked to recover from the¬†worst economic downturn since the Great Depression and strengthen the economy for the middle class. Her efforts have helped train workers for the jobs of the future, protect workers‚Äô health and safety and put millions of Americans back to work.¬†I am grateful to Secretary Solis for her steadfast commitment and service not only to the Administration, but on behalf of the American people.¬†I wish her all the best in her future endeavors. ¬† It's common for several departures to take place between the first and second term of a presidency, but Solis' departure ‚Äî coupled with the exits of EPA administrator Lisa Jackson and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton ‚Äî mean that the administration is losing another woman. The AP is also reporting that Attorney General Eric Holder is staying on for Obama's second term, along with¬†Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius and Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki.
en.wikipedia.orgIs there really a chance that the Trillion Dollar Coin will be used as a way to avert a debt ceiling crisis? TD Securities' analyst Millan Mulraine believes there's a non-trivial 5% chance that it will be minted. "Minting a $1T coin: Outside of an agreement, there are other options available to the White House to avoid a default. There appears to be some serious consideration being given to the minting of a $1T coin as a plausible alternative to a default. If this is done, it could effectively provide additional room for funding government operation without the need for incurring new debt. This is akin to debt monetization. Probability 5%." Here are the other possible outcomes, according to the report: Some other possibilities and odds:
Brown Harris StevensAndrew Ellingson Beck III, managing director at D.E. Shaw Securities, has listed his luxurious duplex condo (complete with penthouse) in Tribeca for $24 million, according to Curbed. Beck originally bought the condo, which has 4 bedrooms and 4.5 bathrooms, for under $6 million in 2004. The condo takes up over 6,000 square feet, and includes a spiral staircase, an infinity pool with waterfall, an elevator, and stunning views of lower Manhattan. Liz Dworkin of Brown Harris Stevens is the real estate agent associated with this property, which she describes as "a rare combination of move-in comfort and super star elegance."
Chaotic Serenity via FlickrNot much news today. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,390, +61.6, +0.4 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,461, +3.8, +0.2 percentNASDAQ: 3,105, +14.0, +0.4 percent And now the top stories:
The Wall Street Journal is reporting that the SEC has opened an inquiry in Herbalife. Following the news, Herbalife sold down sharply, more than $3 to hit a low of $36.28 after trading at $40.58. Since then, it has bounced to above $40 a share. Hedge fund titan Bill Ackman, the founder of Pershing Square Capital Management, revealed last month that he has a massive short position in Herbalife -- a multi-level marketing company he says is a pyramid scheme.¬† Today, Dan Loeb, the founder of Third Point, disclosed a massive long position in Herbalife. ¬†Third Point has 8,900,000 shares, or an 8.24% stake in the company.¬† Check out the chart: CQG
(Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) In its latest short-term energy outlook, the EIA projects domestic crude production will hit 7.9 million barrels per day in 2014. The last time we hit that mark was in 1989, according to oil markets guru Stephen Schork. One of the major beneficiaries of this surge has been the railroad industry, he writes. And among all rail companies, BNSF may be best positioned to take advantage of shipments of crude from America's oil boom. Three years ago, of course, Warren Buffett¬†bought¬†BNSF railroad for $26 billion. It's looking like a wise investment. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre the 1,000-pound gorilla in the oil markets,‚Äù BNSF CEO Matt Rose told Bloomberg. ‚ÄúCrude by rail is going to be really strong for us. It‚Äôs been a real benefit to us to replace some of that lost coal business.‚Äù The company says it will¬†boost crude-oil shipments by 40 percent this year, to 700,000 barrels per day,¬†Bloomberg reports. Schork points out¬†that in declines in rail shipments across the industry of coal are being offset by shipments of crude.¬† Whereas year-on-year coal movement‚Äôs in November 2012 were down 10¬Ω%, shipments of oil were up by 45% and shipments of crushed stone, gravel, sand (as in, fracking sand) were up by 7.8%.¬† BNSF's raw material volumes were little changed in 2012 as competitors posted declines, based on Association of American Railroads data, Bloomberg said.
White HouseNBC's Chuck Todd asked White House press secretary Jay Carney today about the platinum coin option to avoid the debt ceiling, and Carney did not completely rule it out. Carney laughed and sidestepped the question, repeating that it is Congress' job to raise the debt ceiling and that President Barack Obama would not negotiate with Republicans. "Nothing needs to come to these kinds of speculative notions" like the trillion-dollar coin, Carney said.† Nevertheless, Todd continued to press Carney multiple times about the trillion-dollar coin option. Carney did not explicitly rule it out, but he said there was "no backup plan" if Congress didn't do its job. "There is no Plan B. There is no backup plan," he said. In the last question of the press conference, ABC reporter Jon Karl asked Carney for an explicit "yes or no" on the coin option.† "I would refer you to the Treasury," Carney said. The "Mint the Coin" movement has gained traction in the past week as an option to circumvent the debt ceiling if Congress does not raise it by the expected "X date" that could come as soon as Feb. 15. It would allow the Treasury to temporarily print money to pay the country's bills and work around the debt ceiling. It has turned into a†Twitter†campaign (#MintTheCoin),†and supporters have created a petition urging the White House to mint it. Incidentally, Carney was much more definitive in his position on whether Obama would consider the option of the 14th Amendment to work around the debt ceiling. The amendment states that "the validity of the public debt of the United States ... shall not be questioned." Carney's answer on the 14th Amendment was a firm "no." "Our position on the†14th Amendment†has not changed," Carney said. "Congress has the responsibility and the sole authority to raise the debt ceiling."
This morning we learned that Dan Loeb is long nutritional supplement company Herbalife, and now we know why. Loeb hashed out his thesis in his latest letter to investors ó his hedge fund, Third Point is up 21.2 percent for 2012, and 9.2 percent for Q4, by the way ó and said that fellow hedge fund manager Bill Ackman's short against the company is "preposterous." After going over Herbalife's awesome stats ($29.87 billion in sales with 20-50 percent growth each year since 2004). Loeb gets to the heart of why the company is not a pyramid scheme, as Ackman has said. From the letter: The pyramid scheme is a serious accusation that we have studied with our advisors. We don't believe it has merit. The short thesis rests on the notion that the FTC has been asleep at the switch, missed a massive fraud for three decades and will shortly awaken (at the behest of a hedge fund short seller) to shut down the company. We find this to be preposterous. He goes on to say that the FTC's regulatory framework makes it possible for multi-level marketing companies to conduct business legally. Not only that, but he adds that while Ackman's presentation was "lengthy" there was "little new 'news' in the presentation" or evidence to show that Herbalife had crossed into breaking the law. ... even the short seller conceded that the FTC was not looking at Herbalife's practices. In our experience, expert regulators like those at the FTC do not respond to sudden pressure from a hedge fund whistleblower by acceding blindly to their demands. Finally, even if there were some regulator intervention, we are comforted by the fact that 80 percent of Herbalife's revenues come from overseas. Here's how it ends: So we return to our compounder thesis, available at an attractive discount, probably for a limited time only. We believe that continued strong operating performance combined with disciplined capital return could easily send the stock back towards its April highs. Letís not forget: the business itself is performing well. Volume, revenue and earnings are all growing double digits and the balance sheet is largely unlevered. Management has a history of returning 100 percent of net income to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks. If management were to deploy its existing $950 million buyback authorization in the $40-45 range (only taking leverage to approximately 1.5x), we estimate that run-rate EPS for 2013 could be $5.50-5.70 using the reduced share count. Applying a modest 10-12x earnings multiple suggests Herbalifeís shares are worth $55-$68, offering 40-70 percent upside from here and making the company a compelling long investment for Third Point. Given that the Company has historically traded more in the 12-14x range (and traded at 16-20x earnings through much of 2011 and early 2012), the opportunity for the Company to tell its side of the story tomorrow at its Analyst Day in New York, and the significant short interest, we believe shares could even trade well above our current price target. This is very similar to another Herbalife long, John Hempton, who has made the same argument. Yes, there are some business model issues, but the FTC is not going to act on them on the behest of a billionaire hedge funder. SEE ALSO: Bill Ackman's dizzying presentation on Herbalife &gt;
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Vanguard Warns Against Ditching The 60/40 Portfolio (Investment News) Fran Kinniry, principal at Vanguard's investment strategy group says that investors and advisors shouldn't kiss away the classic balanced portfolio that calls for 60 percent stocks and 40 percent bonds just yet.† Kinniry says in the next decade this strategy could return less than half its historical average of about eight or nine percent but that it could be the best option for managing risk. This he says is because investment grade bonds are the best hedge against a decline in equities.  DOUG KASS: Stocks Will Hit Their High For The Year By The End Of This Week (The Street.com) Doug Kass of Seabreeze Partners just published his '15 Surprises For 2013'.† In it he writes that bullish consensus expects the S&amp;P 500 to close between 1,550 - 1,615 this year and for the 10-year U.S. note to trade at 2.50 percent. He thinks this is too optimistic on stocks and too negative on bond prices.† "I believe that the U.S. stock market will make its 2013 high in the first two weeks of January, be in a yearlong range of 1275-1480 and close the year at 1425 and that the 10-year U.S. note will be below 2.00% in the first six months of 2013". CFA Institute Launches New Program For Those Outside The Front Office (The Wall Street Journal) The CFA Institute has launched the Claritas Investment Certificate and is broadening its scope in the financial services industry. The latest program offers a test for those that work alongside money managers but outside of the investment business in areas like human resources, sales, marketing etc.† The first exams in the pilot program are set to take place in March and global registration for it begins in May.† The Fear Index Is Near A Six-Year Low (Bespoke Investment Group) The VIX ó also referred to as the fear index ó is at a six-year low according to Bespoke Investment Group. It surged right before the fiscal cliff and tumbled after. "If there's a line in the sand for the VIX, it looks to be right around 10. ...While the VIX has dipped below 10 briefly in the past, it hasn't stayed there for long."   10 Mistakes That Can Turn Investors Into Their Own Worst Enemy (Business Insider)  After the financial recession, the SEC commissioned the Library of Congress to research "Behavioral Patterns and Pitfalls of U.S. Investors," which revealed that some human behaviors and emotions hurt individual investors.†† Some of these mistakes include selling winners and sticking with losers, which researchers call the 'Disposition Effect.'† Listening to the media for tips is another.  The 10 Best Investments In A Year Of Easy Monetary Policy (Morgan Stanley Smith Barney) Morgan Stanley Smith Barney is out with its 10 best investment ideas for 2013. Their ideas are based on three trends 1) exceptionally lower interest rates 2) emerging markets driving global growth 3) continued monetary easing.† Their investment ideas include water, emerging market equities, high quality municipal bonds, and commodities and gold.
MSNBCVice President Joe Biden said Wednesday that the White House has determined President Barack Obama can take executive action in a push to curb gun violence. "We're here today to deal with a problem that requires immediate action, urgent action," Biden said at a meeting with gun safety advocacy groups and victims of gun violence, according to a pool report released from the meeting. "The President is going to act," Biden said. He added that the White House has determined "executive action can be taken," but he did not specify what action that could be. It was the first suggestion from the White House that it could bypass Congress in instituting measures to combat gun violence in the wake of the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. The White House has already called on Congress to reinstate a ban on assault weapons that expired in 2004, close loopholes that allow gun buyers to bypass background checks and ban some high-capacity magazines. "I want to make clear that we're not going to get caught up in the notion that, unless we can do everything, were going to do nothing," Biden said Wednesday. White House press secretary Jay Carney also wouldn't specify today what executive action could be taken, sidestepping questions on the issue. "Those decisions have not been made," Carney said, emphasizing that he did not want to "get ahead of the President or Vice President." Biden's meeting ó which Attorney General Eric Holder also attended ó was the first in a series this week for the White House's gun violence task force led by the Vice President. On Thursday, Biden will meet with gun-owner groups like the National Rifle Association and gun-selling retailers like Wal-Mart. This post has been updated. * Here's a full list of the meeting's participants today: Administration Officials: Vice President Joe Biden U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder † Gun Safety Advocate Groups: Arizona for Gun Safety Brady Campaign to End Gun Violence Campaign to Keep Guns off Campus &amp; States United to Prevent Gun Violence Cease Fire Pennsylvania CT Against Gun Violence Cure Violence Illinois Council Against Handgun Violence Mayors Against Illegal Guns Protect Minnesota Violence Policy Center Wisconsin Anti Violence Effort † Victims &amp; Survivors: Colin Goddard, Survivor of Virginia Tech Shooting Elilta Habtu, Survivor of Virginia Tech shooting William Kellibrew, Witness to Violence &amp; Founder, William Kellibrew Foundation†††††††† Annette Nance-Holt, Mother of Victim to Gang Violence† Lonnie Phillips, Stepfather of Aurora Shooting Victim
The Wall Street Journal is reporting that the AIG board of directors has agreed not to join the Starr International lawsuit. Yesterday, The New York Times first reported that AIG, the insurance giant that was once bailed out by the government, was considering joining a shareholder lawsuit to sue the government for $25 billion. The lawsuit was filed by former AIG CEO Hank Greenberg, who is now the CEO of Starr International. Read more about the ongoing story here.
It's no secret that Wall Street and big business favor the Republican party, but it looks like there will be a break in their love affair for the debt ceiling debate. According the Washington Post, Wall Street's powerful lobby group, The Financial Services Roundtable (FSR) will be working hard against the Republican party to see the debt ceiling raised. The group is headed by former GOP Presidential candidate, Tim Pawlenty. From WaPo: ‚ÄúWe are in favor of raising it, and we will be encouraging policy makers to increase it,‚Äù Scott Talbott, the senior vice president for public policy for the Financial Services Roundtable, told me today. He added that the group was gearing up to communicate the demand for action to Congress, an effort that could include sending letters to every member. ‚ÄúWe will communicate with the entire Congress,‚Äù he said. The FSR and the people they represent are afraid of what will will happen to markets if the ceiling isn't raised. No one, after all, wants a repeat of the summer of 2011 when the S&amp;P cited the brutal debt ceiling debate as a reason for downgrading the U.S.'s credit rating. ‚ÄúThe markets have baked in the fact that Congress will make the shot at the buzzer,‚Äù Talbott said. But he warned: ‚ÄúIf they don‚Äôt make the shot, the first trading day after, the markets will go haywire.‚Äù The FSR's voice on this matter could actually make an impact on Republican lawmakers? Why? Because the FSR is a big GOP donor, that's why. In 2012 the group had a bit less than half a million dollars to shell out, and 69% of that went to Republicans, according to OpenSecrets.com. So we'll see how the GOP deals with this one.
Wikimedia CommonsWe've been seeing a recurring theme in some of the recent market commentaries emanating from Wall Street. It's the second week of the new year, and there hasn't been a whole lot of activity in the markets ‚Äì which means everyone is still discussing 2013 outlooks, predictions, surprises, and so forth. A comment from a recent client note authored by JPMorgan strategist Tom Lee ‚Äì known as one of the more bullish voices on the Street ‚Äì caught our interest. Lee wrote: Our baseline for 2013 remains that of a tricky 1H, with strength to start (and as we mentioned in earlier notes, we see a move toward 1500) but followed by a correction that sees 1350 before midyear. This is a contrarian view on timing‚Äîwe are seeing a growing chorus of investors who see stocks strong throughout 2013. In fact, even notable bears have turned ‚Äúbullish‚Äù on equities in 2013.¬†We do not view this as a sign of ‚Äúringing the top‚Äù; rather, it is a reminder that investors need to be mindful of consensus and risks to the consensus view. Today, another well-known Wall Street bull ‚Äì BMO Capital strategist Brian Belski ‚Äì wrote something very similar: Looking forward, we remain optimistic and expect another year of above-average market gains for the U.S. market (our 2013 S&amp;P 500 price target is 1,575, implying a roughly 10% gain) despite what we expect to be a slowing earnings growth environment. However, for the first time in quite a while our market outlook is squarely within the consensus. Although the contrarian part of us is uneasy about this, we are comfortable with our stance. From our perspective, most other strategists have finally caught up to where we have been all along. In addition, so long as volatility (as measured by the VIX) remains subdued, as we expect, having a consensus call is not necessarily a bad thing, in our view. In other words, some of Wall Street's most bullish strategists are starting to take note that everyone else is finally joining the bandwagon, so to speak. This consensus view is also central to Doug Kass's 2013 outlook, published today on TheStreet.com. In the piece, Kass highlighted just how little deviation there is on Wall Street from the consensus call that stocks will gain 10 percent in 2013: On the latter issue of stock prices, strategists are unusually tight in their year-end S&amp;P 500 forecasts, with Bank of America,¬†Bank of Montreal, Citigroup,¬†Credit Suisse,¬†Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs,¬†HSBC,¬†KKR,¬†JPMorgan¬†and¬†Oppenheimer¬†all in the range between 1550 and 1615, representing, on average, about a 10% gain for the full year.¬†BTIG¬†and¬†Barclays¬†are at 1525. Only¬†UBS¬†(1425) and Morgan Stanley (1434) stand out from the crowd. So, is the "unusually tight" consensus on a 10 percent rise in the stock market in 2013 cause for concern?¬†(For more detail, read¬†Wall Street's Predictions For Where The Stock Market Is Going In 2013.) As Lee and Belski wrote, they aren't too worried about it. Kass, on the other hand, is. In his outlook, he writes: As contrasted to 2012, when most were dour in market view (and wrong!), the 2013 consensus is an optimistic one and now holds to the view that European economic growth is stabilizing while growth in China and in the U.S. is reaccelerating. The popular view goes on to believe that even our dysfunctional leaders in Washington will not upset the growing consensus that it is clear sailing for equities and trouble ahead for bonds. ... These consensus views might prove too optimistic on stock prices and too pessimistic on bond prices. I believe that the U.S. stock market will make its 2013 high in the first two weeks of January, be in a yearlong range of 1275-1480 and close the year at 1425 and that the 10-year U.S. note will be below 2.00% in the first six months of 2013. Either way, it's something for contrarians to think about. On a related note, Credit Suisse equity strategist Andrew Garthwaite identified eight sentiment indicators near or at multi-year highs. Garthwaite suggests a selloff in stocks is near &gt;
China 24 China is going through a historic cold snap. The national average temperature has reached its lowest level in 28 years. The average temperature in northeast China dipped to -4.5 degrees F, the coldest in 43 years, and dropped to a 42-year low of -18.7 degrees F in northern China. We've told you how this has inflicted major damage on crops, in turn causing prices to surge. Now we've dug up some images showing the damage.¬†
Bloomberg via YouTubeAs emerging economies evolve into developed economies, their GDP rebalances and shifts from being driven by investment to being driven by consumption. This is a phenomenon that we're beginning to see in China as the world's second largest economy starts to mature. However, investors often make the mistake of assuming that when construction slows, it's time to dump infrastructure stocks and move into consumer stocks. There's much more nuance to the China story, noted Deutsche Bank's David Bianco at a breakfast this morning. "China construction growth can slow, buts its capital goods demand can accelerate," said Bianco. For years, China has focused its efforts on building airports, highways, and cities.¬† However, it still needs to deploy capital goods for all of that infrastructure. "China demand for capital goods should accelerate as urban living standards improve.¬† China still needs more airplanes, trucks, engines, climate control and automation." With this thesis in mind, Bianco recommends investors to tilt their portfolios toward "global growth" and "capex plays."¬† Specifically, he favors industrial and technology sector stocks with exposure to the emerging markets. Deutsche Bank's year-end target for the S&amp;P 500 is 1,575.
Former Congressman Barney Frank served the state of Massachusetts as a Democrat for decades in the House, and now there's a grassroots movement to get him sent to the Senate ó if even for just a little while. Since It looks like Massachusetts Senator John Kerry will be confirmed as Secretary of State when Hilary Clinton steps down, there's going to have to be a special election for his seat. Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick is responsible for appointing a temporary Senator until someone is officially elected, and people are putting pressure on him to choose Frank for that spot. A semi-retired senior from Norfolk, Massachusetts named John F. Kelley started a petition to get Frank in the seat. Right now it has 4,878 signatures and the goal is 5,000. ìAt a time like this, we need someone with the courage, the conviction and the experience to stand up for seniors and working families in Congressóand we can't think of anyone who would do a better job over the next few months than Barney Frank,î said Kelley.† ìBarney Frank has never been afraid of a fight, and if appointed to the Senate to replace John Kerry, he won't back down in defending working families and seniors like me.î There's that, and there's the op-ed the Boston Globe staff wrote urging Patrick to appoint Frank. ...Frank is an excellent candidate for interim senator. Choosing him would serve two important purposes. First, since heís emphatically ruled out any future election, his selection would allow the voters to choose a permanent senator without having one of the candidates anointed by the governor. Second, he would be effective immediately as a senator, since heís about as knowledgeable on federal budget issues as anyone in Congress. Thatís crucial because budget cutting will be the prime agenda item for the next four months. And Frank, whoís toiled fruitlessly in the Republican-led House alongside GOP gadfly Ron Paul on a plan to trim the defense budget, would finally get to make his case in the Senate. For his part, Frank has said that he would accept the position. Looks like it could very well be a done deal.
Naturally, he's outraged about the whole mess, and he's directing that outrage at the insurance company's former CEO, Hank Greenberg. It makes sense. Greenberg is the man who filed the initial suit on behalf of AIG shareholders alleging that the U.S. government handled the company's bailout in a manner that was contrary to their interests. That argument was dismissed in a NYC Court, but the case was allowed to proceed in Washington D.C. That's where AIG's board could join in, if they so choose, after hearing arguments for and against the suit at a meeting today. Now here's Taibbi's take: But here's the funny thing about the lawsuit filed against the government: It isn't all wrong. In fact, parts of it are quite on the mark. The only problem is, the suit is being filed by maybe the biggest douchebag of all time, Hank Greenberg (and his company, Starr International), a man who has not only been proven to be corrupt and a fraud, but who perhaps more than anyone else was responsible for the galactic balance-sheet goat-f*ck that caused AIG's implosion in the first place. If there is such a person as an innocent AIG shareholder who was harmed by the government's conduct, it sure as hell isn't Hank Greenberg. Business Insider also pointed out that, during his tenure as CEO, Greenberg oversaw the creation of the unit that made the risky bets that brought the company to the brink of collapse. Taibbi goes into the gory details of all that: Well, AIG, under Greenberg's watch, had entered into hundreds of billions of dollars of cosmically stupid credit default swap bets with all of the biggest banks in the world, essentially taking book for all of Wall Street, in many cases taking the wrong side of bets against the mortgage markets, among other things. Greenberg was dumb enough to allow his subordinate Joe Cassano to enter into these contracts, which were written in such a way that if AIG's credit rating were ever to fall, AIG would suddenly owe its customers billions in cash collateral. When the ratings agencies started downgrading AIG because of anxiety over all of the investigations into the company's accounting, all of those collateral calls started coming due. Before you knew it, companies like Goldman were demanding more cash in collateral than AIG had, and when the company was finally bled dry, that's when the bailout took place. All that said, Taibbi does grant Greenberg one little piece of satisfaction. He writes that the powers-that-be on Wall Street "absolutely did conspire to seize AIG and then use a monstrous mixture of AIG's assets and public money to keep themselves alive." In essence, AIG was the helpless fat guy in the lifeboat who got eaten when the rest of the survivors ran out of food. In a vacuum, perhaps, there might be some sort of claim here, and there are ordinary people who worked for AIG who were probably harmed when the state decided not to force companies like Goldman to take even a 1 percent haircut on their CDS contracts with the firm. But Hank Greenberg, the guy who started all of this mess by monkeying with shady reinsurance deals and signing off on the bank's incredibly irresponsible bookmaking during the pre-crisis years, is not the guy to bring that claim. So in short, down with Hank, and also, down with Wall Street. Got it. ¬†
Bespoke Investment Group just published a chart that shows how the volatility index (VIX), aka the "fear index," rallied right before the Fiscal Cliff then plummeted right after. Currently, the index is at its lowest level since June 2007. "If there's a line in the sand for the VIX, it looks to be right around 10," they write.† "While the VIX has dipped below 10 briefly in the past, it hasn't stayed there for long."  However, the chart also shows that whenever the VIX reaches a periodic low, it tends to spike upwards shortly thereafter. Weíll keep you posted if the effects of debt ceiling negotiations begin to show up in the VIX.
During these first days of January, many adopt an ‚Äúout with the old, in with the new,‚Äù approach to shed bad habits or extra pounds. Washington opted for its same ol‚Äô strategy when averting the ‚Äúfiscal cliff,‚Äù as the addictive nature of ‚Äúcan-kicking is a transatlantic sport,‚Äù according to The Economist. The magazine suggests that the deal made in the 11th hour is ‚Äúdisturbingly similar to the eurozone‚Äôs.‚Äù The short-term fix did ‚Äúnothing to control the unsustainable path of ‚Äòentitlement‚Äô spending on pensions and health care ‚Ä¶ nothing to rationalize America‚Äôs hideously complex and distorted tax code... and virtually nothing to close America‚Äôs big structural budget deficit.‚Äù In the end, politicians agreed to end the payroll tax cut and raise taxes on the top earners; altogether, tax increases will total $162 billion in 2013. According to a Bloomberg article, it‚Äôs the first time since 1990 a Republican leader agreed to a boost on tax rates. The legislation also represents the largest tax increase in two decades, says the Wall Street Journal. One negative consequence resulting from the new bill is an immediate hit to Americans‚Äô spending cash. International Strategy &amp; Investment (ISI) anticipates that the impact will occur in the first quarter of this year, with real disposable personal income (income after taxes and inflation) decreasing by 3.8 percent, says ISI. In addition, ‚Äúreal consumer spending is likely to remain sluggish at 1.5 percent,‚Äù says ISI. Avoiding the ‚Äúfiscal cliff‚Äù initially calmed the market, with equities and gold beginning to rally before the ink was dry. On January 3, I appeared on Fox Business to discuss the impact on gold and whether the yellow metal had the strength to increase for the 13th year in a row. I said that the lack of fiscal austerity combined with monetary reflation would keep fueling gold throughout 2013. See the clip now. ¬† However, the Federal Reserve poured a bucket of cold water on gold after its minutes were released, with some members documenting their wish to stop quantitative easing (QE) before the end of 2013. While this appears to be a negative for gold, keep in mind that the Fed has always been divided, but when opinions diverge, leadership prevails, says ISI‚Äôs Roberto Perli. Chairman Ben Bernanke, along with William Dudley and Janet Yellen, continue to hold the belief that more accommodation is required. In addition, the conflicting comment was made in the context of the labor market, so if we see QE end by the middle of this year, ‚Äúit will be because the economy is getting stronger, and that would be a bullish development,‚Äù says Perli. Regardless, we are seeing developed countries‚Äô central bankers adopting very unconventional monetary policies these days, and ‚Äúthe base case for investors must remain that, when the pressure is really on, the choice will be made for yet more easing and yet more bailouts,‚Äù says Christopher Wood from CLSA. It‚Äôs likely that the latest round of easing by the Fed was because Bernanke anticipated a reduction in spending and wanted to offset the hit taken by the consumer due to the tax increases. And historically, during times of QE, money flows to riskier assets. A few weeks ago, I showed how money was heading to emerging markets, and it‚Äôs worth repeating, as the trend has continued in the new year. Since QE3 began in September 2012, $37 billion has flowed into emerging markets. In total, during 2012, nearly $50 billion flowed into emerging markets, with three spikes occurring in January, February and December. ¬† Back in April 2012, I suggested that if you apply the principle of mean reversion, history appeared to favor China‚Äôs H shares to land in the top half of emerging markets on an annual returns basis. With a new leadership in place and its economy improving, investors have begun to gain confidence in the Asian giant, and in response to the significant flows, equities in China began to outperform other emerging countries, ending the year as a top-half performer on the Periodic Table of Emerging Markets. ¬† Resolve to Follow the Money Is it part of your New Year‚Äôs resolution to improve your investment portfolio? To help you accomplish that task, join our Outlook Webcast on January 9 at 3 p.m. CT. Our team of experts will be discussing ways investors can find opportunity by following monetary and fiscal policies as well as seasonal and cyclical patterns occurring in global markets and natural resources. Add to your calendar now. U.S. Global Investors, Inc. is an investment management firm specializing in gold, natural resources, emerging markets and global infrastructure opportunities around the world. The company, headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, manages 13 no-load mutual funds in the U.S. Global Investors fund family, as well as funds for international clients. For more updates on global investing from Frank and the rest of the U.S. Global Investors team, follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/USFunds or like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/USFunds. You can also watch exclusive videos on what our research overseas has turned up on our YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/USFunds. By clicking the link above, you will be directed to a third-party website. U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this website and is not responsible for its content.
There are really two stunning things about the movement to mint a trillion dollar coin to avert a debt ceiling crisis. FIRST: the movement has gone absolutely nuts. Everyone is talking about it. Media outlets and individuals include: BBC, Fox News, CNN, PIMCO's Bill Gross, Paul Krugman, Reuters, The Guardian, Wall Street Journal, The Economist, Bloomberg, MSNBC, CNBC, NBC, CBS, ABC, The Australian, Ria Novosti (Russia), Stephen Colbert, The Washington Post. That's just a partial list. SECOND: Despite the supposed absurdity of it, and despite the fact that it flies in the face of everything everyone thinks about money, there are virtually no good arguments against it. The only real argument is: it sounds silly. Virtually nobody disputes the economics, and the legality is now pretty much unquestioned. Furthermore, attempts at rebuking the coin have made people sound like fools. Think about that, you're going up against a trillion dollar coin, and it's you who ends up sounding like a fool. Here's the National Republican Campaign Committee revealing that it doesn't' understand the way coin seigniorage works. Twitter/@NRCC Everyone's talking about it, and nobody has a good rebuke to what at surface is a "crazy" idea. SEE ALSO: Constitutional law legend says the coin is legal &gt;
CNBCLegendary investor¬†Doug Kass¬†of¬†Seabreeze Partners¬†thinks that by the end of this week, investors will see the top in the S&amp;P 500 for the rest of the year. In his "15 Surprises for 2013," published today on TheStreet.com, Kass writes: Once again, the bullish consensus is tightly grouped with the expectation that the S&amp;P 500 will close the year at 1550-1615 (up from 1425 at the close of 2012) and that the 10 year U.S. note yield will trade at 2.50% or higher (up from 1.80% at the close of 2012). These consensus views might prove too optimistic on stock prices and too pessimistic on bond prices. I believe that the U.S. stock market will make its 2013 high in the first two weeks of January, be in a yearlong range of 1275-1480 and close the year at 1425 and that the 10-year U.S. note will be below 2.00% in the first six months of 2013. Kass cites the following reasons for his bearish outlook: Yikes. Read the rest at TheStreet.com &gt; SEE ALSO:¬†WALL STREET: Here's Where The Stock Market Is Going In 2013 &gt;
Most hiring decisions come down to a gut decision. According to Nobel laureate Daniel Kahneman, however, this process is extremely flawed and there's a much better way. Kahneman†learned in his days as a psychological evaluator for the Israeli Army how hard it is to judge people by intuition.†The army's interview procedure was "almost†useless for predicting the future success of recruits," he writes in his book Thinking, Fast And Slow. So the young officer designed a better evaluation system, working from the†insights of psychologist Paul Meehl, who argued that simple statistical rules are superior to intuitive judgments. What he came up with was so controversial it almost caused a mutiny. Kahneman asked interviewers to put aside personal judgments and limit interviews to a series of factual questions meant to generate a score on six separate personality traits. A few months later, it became clear that Kahneman's systematic approach was a vast improvement over gut decisions. It was so effective that the army would use his exact method for decades to come. Why you should care is because this superior method can be copied by any organization ó and really, by anyone facing a hard decision. Kahneman says as much in†Thinking, Fast And Slow: Suppose that you need to hire a sales representative for your firm. If you are serious about hiring the best possible person for the job, this is what you should do. First, select a few traits that are prerequisites for success in this position (technical proficiency, engaging personality, reliability, and so on. Don't overdo it ó six dimensions is a good number. The traits you choose should be as independent as possible from each other, and you should feel that you can assess them reliably by asking a few factual questions. Next, make a list of those questions for each trait and think about how you will score it, say on a 1-5 scale. You should have an idea of what you will call "very weak" or "very strong." These preparations should take you half an hour or so, a small investment that can make a significant difference in the quality of the people you hire. To avoid halo effects, you must collect the information on one trait at a time, scoring each before you move on to the next one. Do not skip around. To evaluate each candidate add up the six scores ... Firmly resolve that you will hire the candidate whose final score is the highest, even if there is another one whom you like better ó try to resist your wish to invent broken legs to change the ranking. A vast amount of research offers a promise: you are much more likely to find the best candidate if you use this procedure than if you do what people normally do in such situations, which is to go into the interview unprepared and to make choices by an overall intuitive judgment such as "I looked into his eyes and liked what I saw." Kahneman's book also discusses the cognitive failings of†financial advisors,†amateur investors,†pundits, and†pretty much everyone.† DON'T MISS: The 25 Hardest Companies For Job Interviews &gt;
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderClockwise, starting at left: Dylan Love, Jay Yarow, Abby Rogers, and Erin Fuchs.A couple of years ago, I revealed a lot of internal information about Business Insider--the sort of information that most companies paranoically guard for a litany of stated reasons. I said that, if nothing horrible happened, I might one day do the same thing again. Well, nothing horrible happened. (At least nothing I'm aware of.) So, when FOLIO called and asked if I would be willing to share the Business Insider story in a keynote presentation at its MediaNext conference, I figured I might as well open the kimono again. (FOLIO, after all, was kind enough to title my session: BUSINESS INSIDER: From Upstart To Powerhouse. How could I refuse a request like that?) So, I gave the presentation this morning. I included a whole bunch of previously secret information. And on the theory that other folks might be interested--namely you, our readers, who make all of our success possible--I've published the presentation here. There are a lot of slides, but few words, so it should be an easy flip-through. Here are some of the secrets I revealed: Thank you again for reading Business Insider and for helping to make our success possible. We listen closely to what you tell us, and we will keep striving to make the site better every day.
jurvetson / FlickrEuropean stock markets just closed, and Italy was the big winner today ‚Äì the FTSE MIB jumped 2.2 percent, led by Italian bank shares. In London, the FTSE 100 was up 0.75 percent, closing at its highest level since May 2008. Spanish stocks were also logged nice gains ‚Äì the IBEX 35 closed up 1.7 percent. There were no big headlines out of Europe for markets to seize on, but many are crediting today's gains to Alcoa's earnings report after the closing bell yesterday, which came in above expectations and gave earnings season a good start in the United States. The European Bailout That Everyone Forgot About Is Running Into Trouble &gt;
APBloomberg is reporting that President Barack Obama will name current Chief of Staff Jack Lew to be the next Treasury Secretary on Thursday, where he will succeed Tim Geithner. It has†already been a busy week for Obama's Cabinet reshuffle. On Monday, he nominated former Republican Sen. Chuck Hagel to be the next Secretary of Defense and†John Brennan,†the White House homeland-security and counterterrorism adviser, to be the new director of the Central Intelligence Agency.Here are some things you need to know about Lew: Lew grew up in a middle-class apartment in Forrest Hills, Queens, where he started taking up causes like building low-income housing, according to The New York Times. At 12 years of age, he campaigned in New York for Sen. Eugene McCarthy's presidential campaign.† ''Pretty exciting for a 12-year-old,'' Lew told the Times in 1999. ''It was also my introduction to seeing that you could make a difference in people's lives through politics.'' He ended up getting a degree from Harvard. Later, while in Washington, he picked up a law degree from Georgetown by attending classes at night. Lew began his time†Washington in 1973 as legislative aide on Capitol Hill, including as a domestic policy adviser to former House Speaker Tip O'Neill when Ronald Reagan was President. He worked in an office with MSNBC's Chris Matthews. ìWhen he said ëPell grants,í it wasnít something distant or numerical,î Matthews told the Times. ìHe knew this meant kids could go to college who didnít have rich parents.î As an aide, he helped negotiate a deal to reform Social Security in 1983. From February 1993 to October 1994, Lew served as a Special Assistant to the President in the Clinton administration. After a hiatus, he returned to the White House in 1995 as the Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget. In 1998, he was promoted to be the Director of the OMB. Lew played a key role in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, which helped Clinton leave office having created a surplus.† Most prominently, he gained his only experience on Wall Street as a managing director at Citigroup beginning in 2006. After his appointment to the Obama administration in 2010, he caught some fire ó especially from liberals ó for the stint.† Lew oversaw a unit that, among other strategies for job creation, bet against the housing market. Citi paid Lew $1.1 million for his year at Alternative Investments, according to an ethics disclosure report filed in January 2009. He was also eligible for an undisclosed bonus. Lew did not immediately return a call for comment. His unit, though, lost as much as billions of dollars in 2008 as its bets turned sour. In the first quarter of 2008 alone the unit lost $509 million; the company stopped publicly disclosing the unit's individual numbers soon thereafter, but the part of the company that absorbed Alternative Investments lost $20.1 billion in 2008, according to the bank's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Citigroup, the nation's third-largest bank, received $45 billion in TARP bailout funds that year. He was the Deputy Secretary of State under Hillary Clinton for nearly two years before Obama tapped him to replace Peter Orszag as the Director of the OMB. That was where he first outlined the administration's deficit-reduction proposal, including returning to Clinton-era tax rates on the top 2 percent of incomes. In the 2012 budget, he also proposed $400 billion in savings through†non-security discretionary spending freezes and $78 billion in defense cuts while lowering corporate tax rates to 25 percent. Via†National Journal,†Lew prefers a careful approach to budget-cutting: ìI describe budgets as a tapestry: When itís woven together, the picture amounts to our hopes and dreams of a nation.î Obama replaced outgoing Bill Daley with Jack Lew last January, when criticism on Lew's Citigroup tenure started to intensify. Along with Director of Legislative Affairs Rob Nabors, Lew immediately became one of Obama's most-trusted allies and took a leading role in the debt-ceiling negotiations of 2011. NPR detailed how some of his forward-thinking steps gave the White House the edge in the fiscal cliff talks this year: "The White House was very forward-looking and strategic in the way they shaped the sequester," [former economic adviser to Vice President Joe Biden Jared] Bernstein says. "This is a very tough situation for Republicans, in no small part because of the skill of the negotiators from the Democrats' side." For instance, in making sure that programs like Medicare, Pell grants or food stamps are not on the chopping block when the automatic spending cuts hit. Instead, it's defense spending and the Bush-era tax cuts that are at risk ó things that are Republican priorities. Bernstein says Lew gets a lot of the credit for that. "Jack Lew's fingerprints are all over the parts of this sequester that protect vulnerable people, whether it's exempting the entitlements or many of the things that help low-income families," he says. "One of the things Jack always deeply understood was just how important that role of government is for people who are retirees, for people who are poor, for people who aren't connected to the economy and the market in the way that a lot of Republicans envision everybody is, but they're really not." If confirmed, Lew will be tasked again with leading the Obama team in talks on the next round of fiscal issues ó the debt ceiling (again), the sequester and the appropriations budget. Politico's Manu Raju detailed†why some Republicans could look to block his appointment ó because, quite simply, they do not like his views or how he negotiates.† It wasn't always that way.†The feelings began stemming after Lew's role in the debt-ceiling negotiations. In fact, during the negotiations, Lew was praised by, of all people, Republican House Majority Leader Eric Cantor: ìNo one was more prepared and more in tune with the numbers than Jack Lew. He was always very polite and respectful in his tone and someone who I can tell is very committed to his principles.î But now, Republicans say they feel that Lew has no interest in "hearing GOP concerns." It comes after Lew reportedly scoffed at a GOP proposal to make the estate tax rate permanent. "Weíve got to have a person who has credibility with the leaders of the American and world economy, someone who has credibility with the Congress, and I would feel like Mr. Lewís nomination would be a mistake," Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions told Politico. During his 2010 confirmation hearing before the Senate Budget Committee, Lew told the panel that he did not believe Wall Street deregulation played a major part in the financial crisis. He said he doesn't "personally know the extent to which deregulation drove it, but I don't believe that deregulation was the proximate cause." Via New York Mag's Stefan Becket: 
Jamie Dimon is back to being blunt and out front. Bloomberg reports that JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon said that some JP Morgan executives "acted like children" when they heard about the errant 'London Whale' trade that eventually cost the bank over $6 billion last year. He was speaking at a JPM conference in San Francisco. From Bloomberg: ‚ÄúInstead of helping, they were running around with their head chopped off, ‚Äòwhat does this mean for me personally, how‚Äôs my reputation?‚Äô‚Äù Dimon said yesterday...Some people ‚Äúfelt they could take advantage of it personally, they were willing to hurt the company by maneuvering.‚Äù ‚ÄúWe had 100 people who worked every day for 90 days to help the real problem -- the risk -- not the ongoing regulatory review, but the real problem, to get the risk down so we didn‚Äôt have ongoing exposure,‚Äù Dimon said. While some people ‚Äúacted terribly,‚Äù the bank now has the ‚Äúbest management team I‚Äôve ever had in my entire life,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúYou learn the good and the bad about people and that‚Äôs invaluable to find out who those people are. Invaluable,‚Äù he said. Dimon also said that he told executives, some of whom were in tears, that it would take months for the bank to recover its image as the best bank on the Street. ‚ÄúThey are going to attack me, they are going to attack the company. I‚Äôm off my high-holy horse,‚Äù Dimon, 56, said he told his public relations and investor relations staff. ‚ÄúIt is what it is, don‚Äôt worry about it.‚Äù There's a lesson in there somewhere, people.
Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images At the end of this year, when Apple's cheap iPhone comes out, it is going to be amusing to listen to all the Apple fans who consoled themselves about Apple's loss of market share by dismissing competitors' phones as "cheap plastic crap." Because the new cheap iPhone is supposed to have a cheap plastic back. (Presumably, Apple fans will regard Apple's cheap plastic back as having been designed perfectly, unlike the usual cheap plastic crap.) But more importantly... Apple's decision to finally launch a cheap iPhone is a great move by the company. It's a move that is at least a year late, unfortunately, which has helped Apple lose a lot of global market share to competitors like Samsung. But it's still a great move. Why? Because the explosive growth in the smartphone market has now shifted to emerging markets like China and India, where there are few carrier subsidies and most people can't afford phones that cost $600. By insisting on maintaining the premium prices of its phones, Apple has missed out on this growth in the past couple of years. (And Apple has also lost its edge at the premium end of the market, but that's a different story.) To be sure: Apple's decision to offer a $99-$149 phone will reduce the amount of profit that Apple makes per phone. And, relatedly, it will likely reduce Apple's profit margin. But that's okay. Apple's profit margin is still extraordinarily high--the highest in the industry, by a mile. Apple's profit margin, even after accruing for taxes that the company mostly doesn't pay, is an astounding 26%. Y ChartsApple profit margin: Too high.No other hardware companies have margins that are anywhere close to that high. Apple's profit margin, in fact, is too high. Apple has sacrificed revenue growth and platform growth by deciding to confine itself to the "premium" market. And, meanwhile, Apple has raked in such an astounding amount of profit that Apple has no idea what to do with the cash piling up on its balance sheet. Apple has so much cash that it doesn't know what to do with, in fact, that it has decided to start paying a dividend. In other words, Apple has traded off long-term investment opportunities for short-term profits. And, on a global market share basis, it's paying the price for that. Compare this "short-term profit-maximization" approach to the approach of another great company, Amazon, which continually reinvests its profits in future opportunities and lower prices. When Amazon has enough resources to make a bet on a big new opportunity--the Kindle, for example, and Amazon Web Services--Amazon goes ahead and invests the money. This reduces its profit margin, which causes some short-term shareholders to scream, but over the long haul, as long as some of these bets pay off, it creates more value. And even when it isn't making big bets, Amazon continually reinvests potential profits by reducing prices for its customers. This increases Amazon's value to its customers and its competitive advantage. And those, too, help create more value over the long all. Even if it sells hundreds of millions of super-cheap iPhones, Apple will still have a healthy profit margin. And its global market share, which is important in a "platform" business (third-parties build services and apps on top of the iPhone), will increase. This is a worthy tradeoff, even if it causes some short-term investors to jettison the stock in disgust. The growth in the smartphone market is moving to lower-priced phones. And Apple can afford to reduce prices even on its premium phones. So the fact that Apple is acknowledging at least the former trend is very encouraging. It shows that Apple does not want to make the same mistake it made in the 1990s: Focusing on pricing and profit over market share. And it shows that Apple, unlike many companies that under-invest in the future just to deliver bigger profits today, is worthy of its reputation as a great company. SEE ALSO: This Trend Is Very Worrisome For Apple
Stocks continue to sit near five-year highs thanks to corporate profits rebounding from the recession and surging to all-time highs. Meanwhile, the U.S. economic recovery continues to be anemic.¬† And the biggest symptoms of that are the weak labor market and low wages. These two stories go hand-in-hand because part of the corporate profit rebound has been driven by lower costs in the form of workforce and wage reduction. This chart from Goldman Sachs' David Kostin demonstrates that dynamic perfectly: Goldman Sachs
Pershing Square Capital ManagementBill AckmanActivist investor Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, is known these days for his massive short on Herbalife -- a multi-marketing company that sells weight loss and nutritional supplements.† He gave a mammoth presentation last month explaining that he believes Herbalife is a pyramid scheme. Pershing Square is shorting more than 20 million shares and has a price target of zero. A number of hedge fund managers don't agree with his short thesis and have taken the long side, most notably Third Point's Dan Loeb. Ackman has definitely been generating a great deal of buzz with his short. Now let's take the opportunity to get to know him better.
statigr.am/agnes_preauYes. It is. The Trillion Dollar Platinum Coin solution to get around the debt ceiling is unambiguously legal, according to Laurence Tribe, the constitutional law legend at Harvard Law School. Ryan Cooper at Washington Monthly got him on record: I don‚Äôt think it makes sense to think about this as some sort of ‚Äúloophole‚Äù issue. Using the statute this way doesn‚Äôt entail exploiting a loophole; it entails just reading the plain language that Congress used. The statute clearly does authorize the issuance of trillion-dollar coins. First, the statute itself doesn‚Äôt set any limit on coin value. Second, other clauses of 31 USC ¬ß5112 do set such limits, but ¬ß5112(k)‚Äîdealing with platinum coins‚Äîdoes not. So expressio unius strengthens the inference that there isn‚Äôt any limit here. Of course, Congress probably didn‚Äôt have trillion-dollar coins in mind, but there‚Äôs no textual or other legal basis for importing this probable intention into the statute. What 535 people might have had in their collective ‚Äúmind‚Äù just can‚Äôt control the meaning of a law this clear. Meanwhile, Paul Krugman delivers his THIRD enrosement of #MintTheCoin with a point about how it's core to how people see money: For many people on the right, value is something handed down from on high It should be measured in terms of eternal standards, mainly gold; I have, for example, often seen people claiming that stocks are actually down, not up, over the past couple of generations because the Dow hasn‚Äôt kept up with the gold price, never mind what it buys in terms of the goods and services people actually consume. And given that the laws of value are basically divine, not human, any human meddling in the process is not just foolish but immoral. Printing money that isn‚Äôt tied to gold is a kind of theft, not to mention blasphemy. For people like me, on the other hand, the economy is a social system, created by and for people. Money is a social contrivance and convenience that makes this social system work better ‚Äî and should be adjusted, both in quantity and in characteristics, whenever there is compelling evidence that this would lead to better outcomes. It often makes sense to put constraints on our actions, e.g. by pegging to another currency or granting the central bank a high degree of independence, but these are things done for operational convenience or to improve policy credibility, not moral commitments ‚Äî and they are always up for reconsideration when circumstances change. This gets to what we were saying yesterday. This debate is not the work of frivolous trolls. This gets to the core of what is money.
APDemetris ChristofiasAfter some time out of the limelight, European politicians are bringing contentious bailout negotiations back to center stage in the euro crisis plot line. In June of last year, Cyprus requested a bailout from the "troika" of eurozone creditors at the European Commission, the European Central Bank, and the International Monetary Fund. The small eurozone member's outsized banking system was rocked by the Greek bond swap that took place earlier in the year ‚Äì Cypriot banks were big holders of Greek debt and were forced to take serious writedowns as part of the deal, which necessitated a bailout from the state. This, in turn, forced Cyprus to request aid from the troika. The deal between Cyprus and the troika still has not been consummated, and today, reports surfaced in the German press that the deal will be postponed until March, and Cypriot banks may require even more cash to be recapitalized than was previously expected. The new estimate is¬†‚Ç¨11 billion, up from¬†‚Ç¨9 billion. That doesn't sit well with Germany ‚Äì given the Cypriot banking system's reputation as a "black money" haven for Russian cash ‚Äì and that means the Cyprus negotiations could become yet another stumbling block for European leaders trying to navigate the ongoing crisis. A headline in the German newsmagazine¬†Der Spiegel summed up the situation very succinctly in November: "EU Aid for Cyprus A Political Minefield for Merkel." Today,¬†German leaders on both sides of the parliamentary aisle revealed that there wasn't much support in the German legislature for the Cyprus deal. "If the impression would persist that the German taxpayer has to be liable for black money in Cyprus, then aid would not be justifiable," Rainer Br√ºderle, who heads the FDP political party, a junior coalition member in the German government, told the German newspaper Bild. The opposition said basically the same thing. Sigmar Gabriel, the leader of SDP, told German newspaper S√ºddeutsche Zeitung, "As things currently stand, I can't imagine German taxpayers bailing out Cypriot banks, whose business model depends on abetting tax fraud." The November Der Spiegel article¬†mentioned above¬†focused on a classified intelligence report prepared by the German intelligence agency BND on money laundering in Cyprus, and exposed just how pervasive the Russian money laundering through Cyprus had become since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Der Spiegel also explained German Chancellor Angela Merkel's bind: sign off on a controversial bailout of Cypriot banks funded by German taxpayers, or risk the financial spillovers that could hit the eurozone otherwise. So, Germany and the troika have demanded of Cyprus the same tough economic reforms and privatizations of state assets that have characterized bailouts of other eurozone member states, like Greece. However, Cypriot¬†President Demetris Christofias, a communist, has refused to comply with those requests. This is why reports in the German press today say the negotiations between Cyprus and the troika have been delayed until March ‚Äì Cyprus holds presidential elections in mid-February, and Christofias is likely to be unseated by a conservative. The troika is hoping he will be a little easier to work with. Today, in a press conference, Merkel declared, "We agree it is important that the troika should talk with Cyprus and that there can be no special conditions for Cyprus because we have common rules in Europe," and said that "we are far from the end of the talks." In November, BofA Merrill Lynch FX strategist¬†Athanasios Vamvakidis warned that "Cyprus¬†could prove to be a blind spot that could add to market concerns about the¬†Eurozone crisis." Although many view Cyprus as a tiny economy without the potential for much spillover, Vamvakidis still provided a few things for investors to think about: If Cyprus‚Äô debt ends up as high as the above estimates suggest, official¬†sector losses may be difficult to avoid, creating a precedent with implications¬†for other periphery countries. A private-sector debt haircut would have¬†negative market implications for the Eurozone, suggesting that Greece was¬†not a unique case after all and triggering concerns that other countries could¬†follow. However, beyond such concerns, there is not much private-sector¬†debt to cut. The share of private-sector debt in Cyprus following a program¬†will be very small. Moreover, the bonds under domestic law, which are the¬†ones most likely to be affected by a haircut, amount only to ‚Ç¨2.35bn¬†(excluding bonds issued for bank recapitalizations and/or used as collateral¬†for bank ECB borrowing), which is 13.3% of GDP and only 1.1% of the¬†highest estimated debt level under a program. Any official sector debt relief¬†for Cyprus could lead to similar demands in other periphery countries and¬†strengthen political opposition to the periphery bailouts in the core Eurozone¬†countries. Concerns that Cyprus, and not Greece, may be the first country to exit the¬†Eurozone could come to the fore. We do not believe that it is in the interest of¬†Cyprus to exit the Eurozone, particularly because of geopolitical concerns¬†and the continued dispute with the occupied territories in Northern Cyprus. Moreover, Cyprus could in theory default on its official debt and remain in the¬†Eurozone, as its primary deficit is very small. However, markets could¬†become concerned about a Cypriot exit after they realize the risks to the¬†country‚Äôs debt dynamics. In other words, the situation hasn't blown up yet, but it is something to keep an eye on, nonetheless.
YoutubeThe New York Times' John Broder and Clifford Krauss report that an urgent review of Arctic drilling by the Department of the Interior could scuttle all of Shell's production plans there. "Officials said the new assessment by federal regulators could halt or scale back Shellís program to open Alaskaís Arctic waters to†oil†exploration, a $4.5 billion effort that has been plagued by equipment failures, legal delays, mismanagement and bad weather," they write. The review was triggered after Shell's drilling ship, the Kulluk, ran aground two weeks ago and had to be towed back to Alaska for repairs. It's expected to be completed within 60 days. Read more at NYTimes.com &gt;
APQuick heads up. Some folks are attributing the market rally and the collapse of volatility to a Washington Post article by Greg Sargent arguing that the GOP isn't united in their Debt Ceiling strategy as people might think. Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus passes along this segment in a quick note titled Why the huge drop in Volatility? Seems the huge drop in Volatility can be attributed to 2 things. ¬†Bad earnings expectations already built in - and the "Cliff" threat coming off. ¬†From WTAW: ¬†"Boehner has now taken to saying that the GOP‚Äôs real leverage in the debt ceiling battle flows not from the debt ceiling, but from the threatened spending cuts in the sequester. But half of those are defense cuts, which Republicans are far more adamantly opposed to than Democrats are - All of which points to what may be the most important fact about the whole debt ceiling fight: GOP leaders want to be granted the presumption of leverage based on the threat of default, yet they are not prepared to deliver on that threat" - http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/plum-line/wp/2013/01/08/gop-disarray-over-debt-ceiling/
The National Republican Congressional Committee just tweeted out this photo with their take on the "Mint the Coin" movement. Only problem is, nobody is actually advocating sourcing 1 trillion worth of platinum. It's called seigniorage, the ability to assign a value on money that's higher than the contents of the money. Twitter/@NRCC
Beloved Upper East Side bar and restaurant P.J. Clarke's is about to get a little more exclusive. The owners of the neighborhood favorite are turning the restaurant's second-floor dining room into a members-only supper club, Marshall Heyman at The Wall Street Journal reports. Around 550 membership cards have already been sent out to regular customers. But if you didn't receive one, you aren't out of luck. New members will be invited in based on referrals. It also helps if you know one of the ladies who run the dining room, which is known as Sidecar. So what does membership get you? According to The WSJ: Membership privileges include the possibility of turning the space into "your own private supper club" until the wee hours, should you call by 10 p.m. to announce yourself and your guests; various membership events like tastings and next week's Prohibition-inspired gathering, featuring small-batch bourbon; and access to all Sidecar locations. (Other P.J. Clarke's are in Las Vegas, S„o Paolo and Washington, D.C.). "There are no membership dues," said [co-owner] Ms. Scotti. "The caveat is you have to come and visit us."
AIG was stuck paying out insurance on billions of dollars worth of defaulted mortgage bonds back in 2008 was saved from bankruptcy when the government stepped in. Since then, the company has paid back the $182 billion the American people lent it, but now former CEO Maurice "Hank" Greenberg wants to sue the government for punitive damages stemming from the terms of that loan. Greenberg's basic argument is that the terms hurt shareholders. And while one New York City Judge dismissed that claim with prejudice, a Washington D.C. Court is allowing the trial to proceed. That's where AIG's board will decide if they want to join in or not. Greenberg (represented by his company Starr International) is requesting $25 billion in damages. In a statement yesterday, AIG CEO Bob Benmosche said that his company "mean(s) it when we say thank you to the American people," but at the same time, according to the company's release, the board only has three options: The Board has three options with respect to the derivative claims asserted on its behalf: (1) take over Starrís claims and prosecute them on its own; (2) refuse the demand and prevent the claims from being prosecuted by Starr, a decision Starr is likely to challenge; or (3) allow Starr to prosecute the claims on AIGís behalf. Importantly, the Court of Federal Claims has denied the Governmentís motion to dismiss the suit, so that the case will go forward with or without AIGís participation. If AIG does not allow the derivative claims to proceed on AIGís behalf and Starr prevails or obtains a favorable settlement on its direct claims, then AIG will not receive any of the amounts recovered. Both options 1 and 3 would really tick off the American people, and according to Fox Business News' Charlie Gasparino, AIG management is telling people they're not going to happen. After all, Washington politicians have already started sounding off about how "outrageous" a lawsuit would be. Some have said that AIG shouldn't "even think about it." That leaves option two, which is really interesting because it pits AIG against its former CEO and its brother company. Starr and AIG were both founded by Cornelius Vander Starr, it was he who appointed Greenberg to succeed him as the head of both companies in the late 1960s (check them out together here). Hank Greenberg held both positions simultaneously from 1967 to 2005 when he stepped down from AIG over allegations that he engaged in some creative accounting at the firm (he eventually paid out a $15 million fine). Based on their statement, AIG is not interested in having Starr go on with this case without it because it would risk losing the chance for more government money if Greenberg is successful in Court. Their option, then, if they don't join in the suit, is to go to battle with Starr to stop it from suing the government. Wild.
Heidi Gutman/CNBCA huge hedge fund war is breaking out between two of the richest and most famous hedge fund managers in the world. The battlefield? Herbalife, the distributor of its own nutritional products. Hedge funder Bill Ackman is famously short Herbalife, likening it to an illegal pyramid scheme, which he hopes/expects the government will go after. Today it's been revealed that hedge funder Dan Loeb has now gone LONG Herbalife, taking a massive 8.2% stake. The stock has spiked on the news. Ackman first announced his short with a dizzying multi-hour presentation that he delivered near the end of December. The premise of the short was that the stock was a pyramid scheme, and that the government could be induced to investigate the company, causing it to go to zero. Ackman's short is understood to be massive. While Herbalife plunged initially, the stock has recovered somewhat, as some have questioned the plausibility of the bet. Among those already betting against Ackman is blogger John Hempton, who thinks his thesis is preposterous. Click here to see the full presentation &gt;
Charlie Gasparino reports that Morgan Stanley is in for some deep cuts on Monday. Bloomberg is reporting 1600 job cuts at the bank next week as well. None of this should come as a surprise. Morgan Stanley's CEO James Gorman has always made it clear that Wall Street had to downsize and that he wasn't afraid to have his own employees feel the pain. That goes for compensation (down 9% since last year) and layoffs. The truly ugly year was 2011, when the firm was running layoff scenarios in the several thousands. At the beginning of last year, Gasparino (again) reported that by June 5,000 more people would be gone. This falls in line with some dark predictions about what would happen all over the Street that we've been tracking for some time. When Detusche Bank announced 1900 layoffs this summer, Meredith Whitney swooped in and said it was just the beginning. She predicted 50,000 job cuts and lower compensation across the board even though the financial meltdown was, at that point, 4 years in the past. In the long run this is a good thing for the Street, according to Whitney. Banks simply aren't making enough cash to support the staffs they used to have, and shareholders aren't going to stand for banks that "over capitalized and sluggish." That's what's causing the voluntary downsizing you see here (from Whitney, this summer): "You can make great money in a utility type of business by borrowing cheaply and lending sensibly but that's not what's being done. The basic bank model has, is, and will be attractive. It's just you're combining everything and undercutting pricing in one place and trying to make up for it, effectively having loss leading businesses... it's not a business that works." Strong words ó and then she really dug in. "You're either making money or you're not. If you're not making money get out of the business." When Detusche Bank made its announcement this summer, the company's stock jumped. Morgan Stanley's is creeping up as well. The news from Gasparino's Twitter feed: 
Robert JohnsonA new Canadian report finds a direct connection between oil sand mining and elevated levels of cancer causing agents in regional water supplies. The news is a blow for oil companies and the Canadian government, which rely on this method to tap the world's second largest oil reserve. It also hurts the case for the Keystone pipeline to link America to the sands. I spent several days in Fort McMurray, and the expanse of mines surrounding the city, last year where residents said they understood mining held risks, but really just wanted some hard facts. Now, it looks like they've got them. "I take my kids fishing to the lakes," one executive told me at the $270 million McDonald Island recreation park. "I don't let them swim in it, but I know some people do." Probably not anymore, as the study found chemicals called PAHs up to 23 times higher than before oil sand mining. With production set to triple over the next 25 years, these levels will only go up and the study ¬†makes clear that the long-term effect on humans, and wildlife remains "unknown."
">The State DepartmentJust breaking now. Bloomberg's Hans Nichols reports that Obama will name Jack Lew as Treasury Secretary tomorrow. Lew, who is currently Obama's Chief Of Staff, has been seen as the frontrunner for a long time. Previously he was Obama's budget chief, and previous to that he was at Citi. While Lew is seen as likely being an easy nomination, there is some GOP opposition to him. POLITICO's Manu Raju had a good report on the politics surrounding Jack lew today: Lew has irked powerful Republicans like Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell during tense negotiations to raise the debt ceiling as well as the final round of talks to avert the fiscal cliff at the end of 2012. Several Republicans said Tuesday they don‚Äôt view Lew as a man interested in hearing GOP concerns. One aide called him ‚Äútone deaf‚Äù in understanding the compromises that Republicans could accept during high-stakes talks. A lot of the frustration seems to be about his bargaining style. On the other hand, here's the take from conservative pundit and writer Ben Domenech: 
MyFoxNYAt least 57 people were injured, 11 seriously, when a commuter ferry from Atlantic Highlands, New Jersey, made a hard landing on Pier 11 in Lower Manhattan around 8:45 a.m on Wednesday. Injured riders have been placed on stretchers and taken to ambulances. At least two people are in critical condition, one of whom is in surgery with a head injury. Passengers, several of whom were standing as they waited to leave the boat, were tossed on impact. The ferry has no seat belts. Dee Wertz, who was on shore, told AP that the ferry "was coming in a little wobbly" and "hit the right side of the boat on the dock hard, like a bomb." Department of Transportation Commissioner Janette Sadik-Khan said the ferry "hit Slip D and then continued on and hit Slip B ...¬†It looked like it was 10 to 12 knots.‚Äù Here's the damage to the¬†141-foot-long 'Seastreak¬†Wall Street,' which was carrying about 343¬†passengers and 5 crew members: MyFoxNY Rider Ellen Foran of Neptune City, N.J., told Colleen Long of The Associated Press that people tumbled on top of one another, hysterical and crying. ‚ÄúAll of a sudden, people that were standing up went flying into the aisles -- people flew four, five, six feet,‚Äù commuter Roy Marleau told The New York Post. ‚ÄúPeople that were standing outside crashed into glass doors and shattered them.‚Äù Long noted that the corner of the ferry was "ripped open part the boat's hull like an aluminum can."¬†Officials and Mayor Bloomberg are on the scene to determine the cause of the crash. Here was the scene after the crash:¬†MyFoxNYAP notes that Atlantic Highlands is a section of the Jersey shore still struggling to recover from Superstorm Sandy.
AP ImagesUBS floor legend continues to offer the valuable trader perspective on the movement to mint a trillion dollar coin to avert a debt ceiling crisis. ---------------------------------------- Lewis Carroll For Treasury Secretary ñ The Debt Ceiling Debate Gets Wackier ñ In recent days, we have written about several very zany proposals to skirt around a potential debt ceiling showdown.One was the issuance of a $1 trillion platinum coin by the U.S. Treasury.Another was the invocation of section IV of the 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.Yet another was having the Fed tear up a couple of trillion dollars of the U.S. Treasuries it holds.The trouble with all of these is that they are all still being discussed in several prominent venues by some normally credible people. The coin idea has drawn supportive comments from folks like Paul Krugman and a former director of the U.S. Mint.Let's start with the Debt Ceiling itself.It came up during World War I.† Prior to the ceiling, every bond issued by the U.S. had been individually authorized by Congress. With war debt piling up rapidly and fearing that some accidental Congressional inaction would inhibit war efforts; Congress handed over issuance to the Treasury.† But, to keep some control, they set a limit, or ceiling, to the total amount of debt that could be issued.† To exceed it, Treasury would have to go back and have Congress authorize further debt (bonds).Since the ceiling is now viewed as a partisan Rubicon, Washington is resorting to zany solutions to get around it.Some believe that the ceiling itself may be unconstitutional, since it may violate the Article IV of the 14th Amendment mentioned above.† Since we may hit the ceiling limits in early March, there is hardly enough time for a Supreme Court challenge.† Then there is the question of who the plaintive would be, and would he/she/they have "standing".The sequestration (massive cuts) deadline has been moved to March 1.† The temporary spending authority (under which the government is operating) expires late in March.These deadlines will likely morph with the Debt Ceiling for a massive sumo wrestling match in the final weeks of February.† Here we go again ñ only this time a quick, cheap, imperfect solution may not be within reach.
Fresh off a big 2012 that saw him rise to national prominence†in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is on the cover of TIME magazine this week and dubbed "The Master of Disaster." The cover comes as Christie's approval ratings continue to stay sky-high as he prepares to run for re-election this year. A new Fairleigh Dickinson poll†found that 73 percent of New Jersey voters approve of the job he's doing as governor. That includes an astounding 62 percent of Democrats. Here's a look at the cover: Time Magazine
This would make a major milestone for Europe. Ireland continues to inch closer to re-entering the debt market. Oooh.. Ireland's coming back big time RT @owencallan *NTMA SAYS 10-YEAR BOND WILL BE DISCUSSED WITH INVESTORS So far, none of the countries that have gone into bailout programs have yet exited. Ireland is clearly Europe's star performer, and the fact that a discussion of a real 10-year bond issue is on the table is a great sign.
Volkswagen Group, Europe‚Äôs largest automaker, appears invincible. Its brands range from entry-level ≈†koda to exotic Bugatti, with SEAT, Volkswagen, Audi, Porsche, Bentley, and Lamborghini in between. It wants to reduce overcapacity in Europe ‚Äúon the backs of the French,‚Äù the source said. But now a secret plan has seeped from the woodwork at the Ministry of Finance‚Äîa desperate, misbegotten, taxpayer-funded deal.¬† The new car market in France is morose. Sales in 2012 dropped 13.9% from the miserable levels of 2011. PSA sank even deeper into that quagmire, with sales dropping 17.5%. All hopes had been riding on its new Peugeot 208 that hit the streets in the fall. But hope has turned into disappointment. An initial restructuring plan was nixed by the government. Nevertheless, PSA will shutter its plant at Aulnay (Seine-Saint Denis) and lay off 8,000 people ... by 2014 ¬†[As Cars Burn In France, The Industry Of Hope¬†Booms]. The company has been bleeding cash. Its finance subsidiary, Banque PSA Finance, was bailed out by taxpayers last fall to the tune of ‚Ç¨7 billion‚Äîa bailout that came under heavy fire from Renault, Ford, and the German state of Lower Saxony, which owns 20% of Volkswagen. Saving PSA without major restructuring, and layoffs, has become a government priority. Economy Minister Pierre Moscovici, who is rumored to be close to the Peugeot family‚Äîwhich owns 30% of PSA‚Äîdropped some hints about the secret plan Sunday evening. He was discussing PSA, ‚Äúa strong company‚Äù that happened to be in a ‚Äúsevere crisis.‚Äù More government help? ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs without doubt necessary to go further,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúIt would be up to the executives to initiate the rapprochement that they find useful, and we are here both to accompany them and to weigh in that direction.‚Äù Then the leaks emerged. ‚ÄúIf car sales collapse in Europe as they did in 2012, PSA won‚Äôt make it through the first half,‚Äù a source at the Ministry of Finance told Le Monde. Bailouts are designed to protect stockholders, bondholders, and other stakeholders, especially the elite‚Äîsuch as the Peugeot family‚Äîat the expense of taxpayers. A real restructuring through a bankruptcy, after the model of GM, would wipe out the Peugeots‚Äô investment and would slam the banks that own much of the debt. Not a good option. Hence the secret plan. The government is deeply worried about Volkswagen‚Äôs strategy of lowering its prices in Europe. The source explained the thinking: Volkswagen can afford it as it sits on ‚Ç¨25 billion in cash, but PSA cannot afford it. A form of governmental dementia. Volkswagen, despite lowering its prices, is immensely profitable. It‚Äôs not a perceived pile of cash that gives it the power to lower prices, but its operating efficiencies, cost structure, and booming sales in China and the US. But even Volkswagen‚Äôs sales dropped 5.1% in France last year. The marauders in Peugeot‚Äôs and Citro√´n‚Äôs backyard were Kia and Hyundai whose sales, albeit a fraction of those of the giants, jumped 18.1% and 42.2% respectively! Nevertheless, to throw a monkey wrench into Volkswagen‚Äôs presumed strategy of wiping out PSA, the government has come up with an ingenious plan: push PSA to acquire GM‚Äôs European subsidiary that has been bleeding to death for years, and whose sales in France have crashed last year by 23.8%‚ÄîOpel. Simple: take two dying cats and make a healthy one out of them. And do so without major surgery. Or, as Le Monde‚Äôs source would have it, build a European champion able to resist the German attacks. The idea had bubbled up in September as PSA and GM were nitpicking through the details of their new alliance. GM ought to trade Opel for more shares in PSA. But GM rejected it; it was already stuck with 7% of PSA and didn‚Äôt want to get dragged deeper into the quagmire. GM had also been scared off by hot-headed declarations of various government officials in response to PSA‚Äôs now nixed restructuring plan. Explains the source at the Finance Ministry: ‚ÄúThe only way to convince the Americans would be for PSA to buy Opel directly.‚Äù There are some roadblocks. PSA doesn‚Äôt have the means. It would require an infusion of government capital, which has been discussed over the last few months, particularly during the Banque PSA Finance bailout. But the Peugeot family stonewalled a dilution of its holdings. And there was resistance among some elected officials and within the Finance Ministry. ‚ÄúIt would nationalize the losses of a private company that is responsible for its own difficulties,‚Äù groused an enraged bureaucrat. Indeed. And it would create the worst possible automaker, one that would not be able to exist without taxpayer subsidies. Both are lousy players in the same tough markets with uncompetitive products in the very segment that is in most trouble, the mid-range. But it might be a relief for GM, which for years has been desperately trying to shed Opel. If it could just get unstuck from PSA as well. And more on governmental dementia, by Bianca Fernet, stilettos-on-the-ground economist in Argentina. The dust has settled‚Äîfor the time being‚Äîfrom the drama of the US Court rulings regarding Argentina‚Äôs payment on defaulted bonds. But it remains a confounding snaggle. And an appeal is coming. It will certainly be a titillating February. Read.... Argentina‚Äôs Bonds, Defaults, and¬†Vultures.
Activist investor Bill Ackman has generated a great deal of buzz since revealing his massive short position on Herbalife -- a multi-level marketing company that sells weight loss and nutritional supplements -- but that doesn't mean everyone agrees with him. Ackman's hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management believes the company is a "pyramid scheme" and is shorting around 20 million shares with a price target of zero.¬† By pyramid scheme, Pershing Square believes that Herbalife's distributors earn more than 10 times by recruitment than selling the product to actual retail consumers [.PDF]. ¬†This, Pershing Square says, incentivizes them to bring in new recruits who will only be disappointed at the bottom. ¬† Herbalife will hold an analyst and investor day on Thursday to rebut Ackman's claims. A tipster passed along a paper published by¬†Professor Ann Coughlan at Northwestern's Kellogg School of Management published¬†last July¬†stating that Herbalife "fails to meet any of the criteria for an illegal pyramid scheme." ¬† Here's a chart of the points she makes in her 6-page paper assessing Herbalife as a legitimate MLM. (Disclosure: the paper was¬†prepared with the financial and data support of Herbalife)  We reached out to Coughlan for further comment, but haven't heard back at the time of publication. You can read her full assessment here [.PDF]&gt; Shares of Herbalife are down more than 13% since Ackman confirmed his short last month. ¬†At one point, the shares tumbled more than 38%. SEE ALSO:¬†Bill Ackman's complete presentation taking down Herbalife &gt;
YouTubeGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) ‚Äî Federal safety investigators intensified their scrutiny of a Monday fire aboard a Boeing 787 as concerned investors sold shares in the aircraft maker for a second day. Boeing on Tuesday confirmed that the fire aboard a Japan Airlines plane appeared to have started in a battery pack for the plane's auxiliary power unit. The National Transportation Safety Board described the fire damage to the battery as "severe," and said it is sending two more investigators to examine the Japan Airlines plane. It also formed investigative groups to look at the plane's electrical systems as well as the fire response. Boeing has a lot riding on the 787. The long-range jet promises a smoother travel experience and is 20 percent more fuel efficient than older models. After years of delays, Boeing has now delivered 49 of the planes, with almost 800 more on order. The fire on Monday happened on the ground at Boston Logan International Airport, with no passengers on board. But in-flight fires can be catastrophic, so the matter is getting close scrutiny by aviation authorities. Interest is especially high in this fire because of indications that lithium batteries ‚Äî which generally have not been used on large planes before the 787 ‚Äî can burn very hot, with fires that are difficult to put out. The NTSB said it took firefighters 40 minutes to put out the fire near the back of the plane. JAL spokeswoman Carol Anderson said the airline inspected its 787s after the fire. She declined to discuss the results, but noted that no schedule changes were made as a result of the inspections. United Airlines said it inspected its six 787s overnight. A spokeswoman would not say what the inspections found. The Wall Street Journal reported that the inspections found an improperly installed bundle of wires connected to the same battery that burned on the on the JAL plane. Electrical problems have been the 787's nemesis. Last month, a United Airlines 787 flying from Houston to Newark, N.J., diverted to New Orleans because of an electrical problem with a power distribution panel. Last week, United said it would delay the start of 787 flights from Houston to Lagos, Nigeria because it wanted to "improve the reliability of the aircraft." In November 2010, a test flight had to make an emergency landing after an in-flight electrical fire. The fire delayed flight tests for several weeks while Boeing investigated. Boeing said the fire on Monday appears to be unrelated to previous electrical problems on the 787. "Nothing that we've seen in this case indicates a relationship to any previous 787 power system events," Boeing said in a prepared statement. Those earlier problems involved power panels elsewhere in a rear bay for electrical equipment. Boeing also said it "would be premature to discuss additional details at this stage" of the investigation. Boeing said it has shared information about the prior events with the NTSB. Shares of Chicago-based Boeing have fallen 4.6 percent since the fire was reported, wiping out almost $2.7 billion of the company's value. On Tuesday they fell $2, or 2.6 percent, to close at $74.13. Investors may have been unnerved by the fire after it appeared that the mechanical and manufacturing kinks with the 787 had been worked out. They may have also reacted to another 787 issue on Tuesday. A different Japan Airlines 787 at Logan had to be towed back to the gate after spilling 40 gallons of jet fuel. The flight was re-scheduled for later in the day. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
Wikimedia/Dominique GrassigliElections in Italy are coming up soon: February 24-25. Given the political progress has made in shedding the Berlusconi era (to some extent) this election is being watched with some trepidation to see if Italy slides in one direction or another. According to a note from Morgan Stanley's Daniele Antonucci, there seems to be pretty solid support for a Center-Left coalition. Peter Luigi Bersani would hold a comfortable lead over the coalition associated with Silvio Berlusconi. An interesting part of the note is where Antonucci discusses the "Ohio" of Italy: The Senate battlegroundÖ Out of 315 assigned seats, the regions with the highest number are Lombardy (49) and Lazio (28), where regional elections will be held in February, as well as the southern regions of Campania (29) and Sicily (25), and the northern region of Veneto (24), traditionally a North League stronghold ñ which has formalised a coalition with Silvio Berlusconiís PdL. The Senate, therefore, is the chamber of parliament in which the vote is more uncertain, partly because of the way the election law has been designed (i.e., a majority premium is assigned on a regional basis) and partly because of the PdL-North League coalition, which might win votes in Veneto and other northern regions. Öand ëItalyís Ohioí: Lombardy, by far Italyís biggest region in terms of assigned seats in the Senate, is the region to watch. Faring well there might be so decisive for the election that some commentators are comparing it with Ohio in the US recent elections. But Lombardyís economy also accounts for about 20% of Italyís GDP. As such, one might also compare it with California, from an economic standpoint. Even though there arenít specific polls on Italyís Senate, the regional polls might help us gauge the political situation. While we keep monitoring it, at this stage, thereís no single party/coalition with a clear lead.
Jan. 9 (Bloomberg) -- American International Group Inc. said it has a duty to weigh joining a suit by former Chief Executive Officer Maurice ‚ÄúHank‚Äù Greenberg that claims the insurer‚Äôs 2008 U.S. bailout was unconstitutional. ‚ÄúThe board of directors has fiduciary and legal obligations to the company and its shareholders to consider the demand served on us,‚Äù CEO Robert Benmosche said yesterday in a statement. The board is scheduled to meet today to hear arguments from representatives of Greenberg and the U.S. Lawmakers including Senators Elizabeth Warren and Robert Menendez and Representative Peter Welch said New York-based AIG shouldn‚Äôt join the suit. ‚ÄúTaxpayers are still furious that they rescued a company whose own conduct brought it down,‚Äù Welch said in a letter to AIG Chairman Steve Miller. ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt rub salt in the wounds with yet another reckless decision.‚Äù Greenberg‚Äôs investment firm Starr International Co., an AIG shareholder, filed the suit in 2011. Starr claims the rescue cheated investors by diluting their stakes. AIG accepted a rescue that swelled in value to $182.3 billion after it couldn‚Äôt raise money in equity and bond markets to pay clients who bought protection against losses on mortgage- related securities. Greenberg is pursuing some of his claims in AIG‚Äôs name, and the insurer has three options to respond, according to yesterday‚Äôs statement. It can take over those claims and litigate them itself, allow Greenberg to prosecute them on its behalf, or prevent him from prosecuting the claims. ¬† ¬† Greenberg is likely to challenge a decision blocking him from proceeding, AIG said in the statement, which came after the New York Times reported on the case. ‚ÄúIt is the AIG board‚Äôs obligation and intention to consider seriously Starr‚Äôs demand and respond to it in a manner that the board believes is in the best interest of the company,‚Äù AIG said. The board will review presentations by the U.S. Treasury Department, Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Starr as directors work toward a decision by the end of this month. Suing the U.S. could present a public-relations challenge for the insurer, which has been running ads thanking taxpayers after repaying the bailout, which included funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, last year. ‚ÄúAIG has paid back its debt to America with a profit, and we mean it when we say thank you to the American people,‚Äù Benmosche said in yesterday‚Äôs statement. ¬† ¬† Joe Courtney, a Democratic congressman from Connecticut, mentioned the latest advertising push as he took to Twitter Inc.‚Äôs website yesterday to rebuke AIG for weighing the suit. ‚ÄúAIG ads thanking America ring hollow,‚Äù he wrote. ‚ÄúChoice was TARP or bankruptcy. Suit is garbage.‚Äù Greenberg won a federal judge‚Äôs approval to proceed with the case against in July. In the complaint, Starr said the government paid $500,000 for an AIG stake that was worth $25 billion, violating the constitutional rights of shareholders to due process and equal protection of the law. A parallel case against the New York Fed was dismissed in November. The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 1:11-cv-00779, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  --Editors: Dan Reichl, Peter Blumberg ¬† To contact the reporters on this story: Zachary Tracer in New York at ztracer1@bloomberg.net; Noah Buhayar in New York at nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ¬† To contact the editor responsible for this story: Dan Kraut at dkraut2@bloomberg.net 
Wikimedia CommonsPeople in the markets are very bored at the moment. For one thing, headlines out of Washington are dominating the discussion, and that's unfortunate. Trading ranges have been very narrow. Traders have been talking about giant asteroids more than anything else. We might be looking at what a post-crisis environment might be like. Modest moves. Few notable headlines. Boredom. In his morning note, SocGen's Kit Juckes tries to fight through the boredom, and come up with a few datapoints that he puts together to help reveal what's really going on. The title of his note is: Patience... I need patience... The FT headline is that US oil imports are tumbling. the consumer credit data show credit demand is up, which is either bad (debt super-cycle alive and well) or good (animal spirits alive and well). But ALL the data suggest (to me, anyway) that the drag on Q1 activity in the US will be less than folks expect and that as that feeds through, we will see continued 'risk on' behavior through Q1. ... Recent European data have pointed to a soft Q4 and a rebound of sorts in Q1. James Nixon concludes in this morning's Economics piece, that the ECB is on hold for the foreseeable future. At the margin, improving sentiment about Q1 should underpin the Euro, and with peripheral spreads tighter, our models continue to show that the Euro is 1) higher than it should be and 2) facing no pressure to correct downwards. It's nothing major, but at the margins things keep getting better. European data hasn't been that horrible. US is hanging in better than people might have expected, especially given the confidence shocks. Mostly though, people are waiting for something to happen.
It's very exciting to see more people talking about and taking seriously the idea of minting a trillion dollar platinum coin in order to circumvent the debt ceiling, and avoid being dragged down in other economically costly standoff. Pretty much every media organization has now done something on it, although the quality of the reporting has been uneven. Probably the worst mistake that gets frequently made is seen in this headline from the Christian Science Monitor (which is by no means alone): Is a $1 trillion coin the solution to the debt crisis? There is nobody suggesting that the trillion dollar coin be a solution to the "debt crisis," whatever that means. This has nothing to do with the US paying back its national debt. The idea of having the Treasury mint a trillion dollar coin is simply a technical way of addressing the debt ceiling, putting a coin at its bank account at the Fed, so that it doesn't miss any obligation payments, in the event that Congress doesn't raise the legal limit on borrowing. This may seem like a silly quibble, but it's actually incredibly important, since one of the biggest failures of media, in general, has been to not explain to people what the "debt ceiling" is very well. As it is, the majority of Americans tell pollsters that they don't favor raising the debt ceiling, a position they would be unlikely to take if they new the consequences of that. But it's understandable why they say this: They think the debt ceiling has something to do with accumulating national debt, rather than just authorizing payments made on promises that have already been made. So in this trillion dollar coin campaign, we're seeing it again, the media failing to draw a distinction between the coin being used to circumvent the debt ceiling, and the coin being used to pay down the debt (which its not). SEE ALSO: Why the trillion dollar coin campaign is such an important debate &gt;
Love The Beast TrailerThis has been a mediocre week for markets, as the blazing first week of the year has given way to coolness. But today markets are back in rally mode, especially in Europe. Spain is up 0.7%. Italy is gaining 1.1%. France is up 0.45%. Germany is up 0.3%. In Asia, Japan resumed its rally, gaining 0.67%. US futures are up modestly. Today should be light on the economic front. Tomorrow's ECB meeting is the next big event coming up.
