The WSJ has an overview of several economic forecasts: Economic Road Clearing, but the Going Is Slow The U.S. still employs more than 2.5 million fewer people than when the recession began. At 180,000 jobs a month, it will take until the middle of 2014 to close that gap. Adjust for population growth, and it will take nine more years to return to the prerecession level of employment at the current rate of growth, according to the Brookings Institution. Below is an update of the graph showing job losses from the start of the employment recession, in percentage terms, with a projection assuming the current rate of payroll growth will continue. This suggests that employment will exceed the pre-recession peak around July 2014 (Private employment will reach a new high around March of 2014).Of course, as the article notes, this doesn't include adjusting for population growth - but this will still be a major milestone. CalculatedRiskClick on graph for larger image. This graph shows the job losses from the start of the employment recession, in percentage terms, compared to previous post WWII recessions. The dotted line is a projection based on recent payroll increases.It looks like employment will reach a new high in mid-2014, about 78 months after the previous high.
On Monday, they submitted their list of 12 director nominees, according to a documents filed to the SEC. Icahn is included in the list. Dell founder and CEO Michael Dell is not. Dell's board currently consists of 12 members and Icahn's list includes none of them. Earlier today, the special committee of Dell's special board asked Icahn to provide more details about his plan. Icahn is challenging the plan championied by Michael Dell and Silver Lake Partners to take Dell private in a $24.4 billion deal. The date for Dell shareholder meeting has not yet been set.
Earlier we reported on a new Pew survey showing fewer and fewer Europeans have a favorable view of the European Union, which has become a victim of the ongoing economic crisis. The survey notes particularly the sad state of affairs in France, where a deep economic gloom is setting in. These two charts from the report show how there's been a total collapse in optimism in recent years in France (even in just the last year) and how the economy is looking more like that of a peripheral nation than a strong nation like Germany. Pew pew
The S&amp;P 500 inched up to close at yet another all-time record high. Perhaps the most remarkable thing about the current leg of the rally is the lack of volatility. "This past Friday, May 10, 2013 marked 176 days since a 5%+ pullback in the S&amp;P 500, tying the record for stretches without a pullback in this 50-month-old bull market [Figure 1], so it may be close," said LPL Financial's Jeff Kleintop.  Today, the S&amp;P 500 squeaked higher, extending that streak to 177 days. Here's a look at the streaks since the beginning of the bull market in March 2009. LPL Financial
There's a fantastic and depressing new survey out from Pew Global (via Cardiff Garcia) examining the attitudes of Europeans towards the European Project (AKA: the EU). What it finds, not too surprisingly, is that there's been a tremendous decline in support for the European Project during the crisis, and that the last year was especially bad. As you can see in this table, every single country polled (except the Czech Republic) has seen a decline in support for the EU from last year to this year. Spain and France have seen support totally collapse. Favorable ratings of the EU in Greece have dropped from the basement to cistern. The median level of support across the countries polled is down to 45%. Pew This chart takes the same numbers going back a bit further, and you can see the steady decline throughout the economic crisis. Pew The report is very broad and very grim. The multi-year economic crisis (which is showing no signs of ebbing) is threatening to upend a project of European integration that's taken place over decades. It's no surprise that in 2013, the politics have begun to turn in a sharp anti-Eurozone, anti-EU direction. In Italy we saw the rise of Beppe Grillo's rebellious 5-Star Movement. In recent local elections in the UK, the anti-EU UKIP party surged at the expense of conservatives. And in Germany, everyone will be watching the fortunes of Alternative für Deutschland (AfD), an anti-Euro party rising in the polls whose argument is that the Euro must be destroyed in order to save Europe. Looking at these numbers, it's hard to argue that they're wrong. The Euro needs to be radically altered in short order to avoid destroying a project that won the Nobel Peace Prize for bringing Europe together.
Erik S. Lesser/EPA for ProPublicaOne day late last year, Katrina Sutton stood at a gas pump outside Atlanta and swiped her debit card. Insufficient funds. But that couldn't be. She'd been careful to wait until her $270 paycheck from Walmart had hit her account. The money wasn't there? It was all she had. And without gas, she couldn't get to work. She tried not to panic, but after she called her card company, she couldn't help it. Her funds had been frozen, she was told, by World Finance. Sutton lives in Georgia, a state that has banned payday loans. But World Finance, a billion-dollar company, peddles installment loans, a product that often drives borrowers into a similar quagmire of debt. World is one of America's largest providers of installment loans, an industry that thrives in at least 19 states, mostly in the South and Midwest; claims more than 10 million customers; and has survived recent efforts by lawmakers to curtail lending that carries exorbitant interest rates and fees. Installment lenders were not included in a 2006 federal law that banned selling some classes of loans with an annual percentage rate above 36 percent to service members — so the companies often set up shop near the gates of military bases, offering loans with annual rates that can soar into the triple digits. Installment loans have been around for decades. While payday loans are usually due in a matter of weeks, installment loans get paid back in installments over time — a few months to a few years. Both types of loans are marketed to the same low-income consumers, and both can trap borrowers in a cycle of recurring, expensive loans. Installment loans can be deceptively expensive. World and its competitors push customers to renew their loans over and over again, transforming what the industry touts as a safe, responsible way to pay down debt into a kind of credit card with sky-high annual rates, sometimes more than 200 percent. And when state laws force the companies to charge lower rates, they often sell borrowers unnecessary insurance products that rarely provide any benefit to the consumer but can effectively double the loan's annual percentage rate. Former World employees say they were instructed not to tell customers the insurance is voluntary. When borrowers fall behind on payments, calls to the customer's home and workplace, as well as to friends and relatives, are routine. Next come home visits. And as Sutton and many others have discovered, World's threats to sue its customers are often real. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the new federal agency charged with overseeing consumer-finance products and services, has the power to sue nonbank lenders for violating federal laws. It could also make larger installment lenders subject to regular examinations, but it hasn't yet done so. Installment companies havesupported Republican efforts to weaken the agency, echoing concerns raised by the lending industry as a whole. The CFPB declined to comment on any potential rule-making or enforcement action. Despite a customer base that might best be described as sub-subprime, World comfortably survived the financial crisis. Its stock, which trades on the Nasdaq under the company's corporate name, World Acceptance Corp., has nearly tripled in price in the last three years. The company services more than 800,000 customers at upward of 1,000 offices in 13 states. It also extends into Mexico, where it has about 120,000 customers. In a written response to questions for this story, World argued that the company provides a valuable service for customers who might not otherwise qualify for credit. The loans are carefully underwritten to be affordable for borrowers, the company said, and since the loans involve set monthly payments, they come with a "built-in financial discipline." The company denied that it deceives customers, saying that it trains its employees to tell borrowers that insurance products are voluntary and that it also informs customers of this in writing. It said it contacts delinquent borrowers at their workplace only after it has failed to reach them at their homes and that it resorts to lawsuits to recoup delinquent payments in accordance with state laws. "World values its customers," the company wrote, "and its customers demonstrate by their repeat business that they value the service and products that World offers." The installment industry promotes its products as a consumer-friendly alternative to payday loans. Installment loans are "the safest form of consumer credit out there," said Bill Himpler, the executive vice president of the American Financial Services Association, of which World and other major installment lenders are members. About 5 percent of World's customers, approximately 40,000, are service members or their families, the company said. According to the Defense Department, active-duty military personnel and their dependents comprise about 1 percent of the U.S. population. Katrina Sutton’s loan contract. Although she walked out of the World Finance store with a check for $207, she agreed to pay a total of $350, including interest, fees and insurance. (Erik. S. Lesser/EPA for ProPublica) Back in August 2009, Sutton's 1997 Crown Victoria needed fixing, and she was "between paychecks," as she put it. Some months, more than half of her paycheck went to student-loan bills stemming from her pursuit of an associate degree at the University of Phoenix. Living with her mother and grandparents saved on rent, but her part-time job as a Walmart cashier didn't provide much leeway. She was short that month and needed her car to get to work. She said she happened to pass by a World Finance storefront in a strip mall in McDonough, Ga. A neon sign advertised "LOANS," and mirrored windows assured privacy. She went inside. A credit check showed "my FICO score was 500-something," Sutton remembered, putting her creditworthiness in the bottom 25 percent of borrowers. "But they didn't have no problem giving me the loan." She walked out with a check for $207. To pay it back, she agreed to make seven monthly payments of $50 for a total of $350. The loan papers said the annual percentage rate, which includes interest as well as fees, was 90 percent. Sutton had received what World employees call a "starter loan." That's something Paige Buys learned after she was hired to work at a World Finance branch in Chandler, Okla., at the age of 18. At that point, she only had a dim notion of what World did. At 19, she was named branch manager (the youngest in company history, she remembered being told), and by then she had learned a lot. And the more she understood, the more conflicted she felt. "I hated the business," she said. "I hated what we were doing to people. But I couldn't just quit." The storefront, which lies on the town's main artery, Route 66, is very much like the one where Sutton got her loan. Behind darkened windows sit a couple of desks and a fake tree. The walls are nearly bare. Typical of World storefronts, it resembles an accountant's office more than a payday loan store. Buys said any prospective borrower was virtually guaranteed to qualify for a loan of at least $200. Low credit scores are common, she and other former employees said, but World teaches its employees to home in on something else: whether at least some small portion of the borrower's monthly income isn't already being consumed by other debts. If, after accounting for bills and some nominal living expenses, a customer still has money left over, World will take them on. In its written response, World said the purpose of its underwriting procedures was to ensure that the borrower has enough income to make the required payments. With few exceptions, World requires its customers to pledge personal possessions as collateral that the company can seize if they don't pay. The riskier the client, the more items they were required to list, former employees say. Sutton offered two of her family's televisions, a DVD player, a PlayStation and a computer. Together, they amounted to $1,600 in value, according to her contract. In addition, World listed her car. There are limits to what World and other lenders can ask borrowers to pledge. Rules issued in 1984 by the Federal Trade Commission put "household goods" such as appliances, furniture and clothing off limits — no borrower can be asked to literally offer the shirt off his back. One television and one radio are also protected, among other items. But the rules are so old, they make no mention of computers. Video game systems, jewelry, chainsaws, firearms — these are among the items listed on World's standard collateral form. The contracts warn in several places that World has the right to seize the possessions if the borrower defaults. "They started threatening me," a World customer from Brunswick, Ga., said. "If I didn't make two payments, they would back a truck up and take my furniture, my lawn mower." (In fact, furniture is among the items protected under the FTC rule.) The woman, who asked to remain anonymous because she feared the company's employees, was most upset by the prospect of the company taking her piano. She filed for bankruptcy protection last year. In fact, former World employees said, it was exceedingly rare for the company to actually repossess personal items. "Then you've got a broken-down Xbox, and what are you going to do with it?" asked Kristin, who worked in a World branch in Texas in 2012 and, from fear of retaliation, asked that her last name not be used. World supervisors "would tell us, 'You know, we are never going to repossess this stuff' — unless it was a car," Buys said. World acknowledged in its response that such repossessions are rare, but it said the collateral played a valuable role in motivating borrowers. "World believes that an important element of consumer protection is for a borrower to have an investment in the success of the transaction," the company wrote. When "borrowers have little or no investment in the success of the credit transaction they frequently find it easier to abandon the transaction than to fulfill their commitments." Sutton's loan contract said her annual percentage rate, or APR, was 90 percent. It wasn't. Her effective rate was more than double that: 182 percent. World can legally understate the true cost of credit because of loopholes in federal law that allow lenders to package nearly useless insurance products with their loans and omit their cost when calculating the annual rate. As part of her loan, Sutton purchased credit life insurance, credit disability insurance, automobile insurance and non-recording insurance. She, like other borrowers ProPublica interviewed, cannot tell you what any of them are for: "They talk so fast when you get that loan. They go right through it, real gibberish." The insurance products protect World, not the borrower. If Sutton were to have died, become disabled, or totaled her car, the insurer would have owed World the unpaid portion of her loan. Together, the premiums for her $200 loan total $76, more than the loan's other finance charges. The insurance products provide a way for World to get around the rate caps in some states and effectively to charge higher rates. Sutton's stated annual percentage rate of 90 percent, for example, is close to the maximum that can legally be charged in Georgia. ProPublica examined more than 100 of the company's loans in 10 states, all made within the last several years. A clear pattern developed: In states that allowed high rates, World simply charged high interest and other finance fees but did not bother to include insurance products. For a small loan like Sutton's, for example, World has charged a 204 percent annual rate in Missouri and 140 percent in Alabama, states that allow such high levels. In states with more stringent caps, World slapped on the insurance products. The stated annual rate was lower, but when the insurance premiums were accounted for, the loans were often even more expensive than those in the high-rate states. "Every new person who came in, we always hit and maximized with the insurance," said Matthew Thacker, who worked as an assistant manager at a World branch in Tifton, Ga., from 2006 to 2007. "That was money that went back to the company." World profits from the insurance in two ways: It receives a commission from the insurer, and, since the premium is typically financed as part of the loan, World charges interest on it. "The consumer is screwed six ways to Sunday," said Birny Birnbaum, the executive director of the nonprofit Center for Economic Justice and a former associate commissioner at the Texas Department of Insurance. Industry data reveal just how profitable this part of World's business is. World offers the products of an insurer called Life of the South, a subsidiary of the publicly traded Fortegra Financial Corp. In Georgia in 2011, the insurer received $26 million in premiums for the sort of auto insurance Sutton purchased as part of her loan. Eighteen million dollars, or 69 percent, of that sum went right back to lenders like World. In all, remarkably little money went to pay actual insurance claims: about 5 percent. The data, provided to ProPublica by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, paint a similar picture when it comes to Life of the South's other products. The company's credit accident and health policies racked up $20 million in premiums in Georgia in 2011. While 56 percent went back to lenders, only 14 percent went to claims. The pattern holds in other states where World offers the products. Fortegra declined to comment. Gretchen Simmons, who managed a World branch in Pine Mountain, Ga., praised the company for offering customers loans they might not have been able to get elsewhere. She said she liked selling accidental death and disability insurance with loans, because many of her clients were laborers who were "more prone to getting their finger chopped off." According to several contracts reviewed by ProPublica, losing one finger isn't enough to make a claim. If the borrower loses a hand, the policy pays a lump sum (for instance, $5,000). But, according to the policy, "loss of a hand means loss from one hand of four entire fingers." Simmons took out a loan for herself from a World competitor — and made sure to decline the insurance. Why? "Because I knew that that premium of a hundred and blah blah blah dollars that they're charging me for it can go right into my pocket if I just deny it." In its written response, World alleged that Simmons had been fired from the company because of "dishonesty and alleged misappropriation of funds," but it refused to provide further details. Simmons, who worked for World from 2005 to 2008, denied that she left the company on bad terms. Federal rules prohibit the financing of credit insurance premiums as part of a mortgage but allow it for installment and other loans. Installment lenders can also legally exclude the premiums when calculating the loan's annual percentage rate, as long as the borrower can select the insurer or the insurance products are voluntary — loopholes in the Truth in Lending Act, the federal law that regulates how consumer-finance products are marketed. World's contracts make all legally necessary disclosures. For example, while some insurance products are voluntary, World requires other types of insurance to obtain a loan. For mandatory insurance, Sutton's contract states that the borrower "may choose the person or company through which insurance is to be obtained." She, like most customers, wouldn't know where to begin to do that, even if it were possible. "Nobody is going to sell you insurance that protects your loan, other than the lender," said Birnbaum. "You can't go down the street to your State Farm agent and get credit insurance." When insurance products are optional — meaning the borrower can deny coverage but still get the loan — borrowers must sign a form saying they understand that. "We were told not to point that out," said Thacker, the former Tifton, Ga., assistant manager. World, in its response to ProPublica, declined to offer any statistics on what percentage of its loans carry the insurance products, but it said employees are trained to inform borrowers that they are voluntary. As for why the company offers the insurance products in some states and not in others, World said it depends on state law and if "it makes business sense to do so." Buys, the former Chandler, Okla., branch manager, said she found the inclusion of the insurance products particularly deceitful. In Oklahoma, World can charge high interest rates and fees on loans under $1,000 or so, so it typically doesn't include insurance on those loans. But it often adds the products to larger loans, which has the effect of jacking up the annual rate. "You were supposed to tell the customer you could not do the loan without them purchasing all of the insurance products, and you never said 'purchase,' " Buys recalled. "You said they are 'included with the loan' and focused on how wonderful they are." It was not long into her tenure that Buys said she began to question whether the products were really required. She asked a family friend who was an attorney if the law required it, she recalled, and he told her it didn't. World trained its employees to think of themselves as a "financial adviser" to their clients, Buys said. She decided to take that literally. When a customer took out a new loan, "I started telling them, 'Hey, you can have this insurance you're never going to use, or you can have the money to spend,'" she recalled. Occasionally, a customer would ask to have the disability insurance included, so she left it in. But mostly, people preferred to take the money. One day, she remembered, she was sitting across from a couple who had come into the office to renew their loan. They were discussing how to cover the costs of a funeral, and Chandler being a small town, she knew it was their son's. On her screen were the various insurance charges from the original loan. The screen "was blinking like I could edit it," she recalled. At that moment, she realized that she could advise customers renewing their loans that they could drop the insurance from their previous loans. If they did so, they'd receive several hundred dollars more. The couple excitedly agreed, she recalled, and other customers also thought it was good advice and dropped the products. Buys' regional supervisor threatened to discipline her, Buys said. But it was hard to punish her for advising customers that the products were voluntary when they were. "All they could do was give me the stink eye," Buys said. But World soon made it harder to remove the insurance premiums, Buys said. She couldn't remove them herself but instead had to submit a form, along with a letter from the customer, to World's central office. That office, she said, sometimes required borrowers to purchase the insurance in order to get the loans. World, in its response to ProPublica's questions, said Buys' assertions about how it handled insurance were "false," but it declined to provide further details. Eventually, Buys said, her relationship with management deteriorated to the point that she felt she had no choice but to quit. By the time she left in 2011, she had worked at World for three years. World, in the answers provided to ProPublica, said that when Buys quit, she was "subject to being terminated for cause including dishonesty and alleged misappropriation of funds." The company declined to provide any details about the allegations, but after Buys quit, World filed suit in county court, accusing her of stealing money from the company. Buys retained an attorney and responded, maintaining her innocence and demanding proof of any theft. World withdrew the suit. Sutton's original loan contract required her to make seven payments of $50, at which point her loan would have been fully paid off. But if World can persuade a customer to renew early in the loan's lifespan, the company reaps the lion's share of the loan's charges while keeping the borrower on the hook for most of what they owed to begin with. This is what makes renewing loans so profitable for World and other installment lenders. "That was the goal, every single time they had money available, to get them to renew, because as soon as they do, you've got another month where they're just paying interest," says Kristin, the former World employee from Texas. Katrina Sutton at her home in McDonough, Ga. She recalled that less than four months from taking out her initial installment loan, World Finance asked her to refinance. She received $44, the amount of principal she had paid back so far. (Erik S. Lesser/EPA for ProPublica) Sure enough, less than four months after taking out the initial loan, Sutton agreed to renew. In a basic renewal (the company calls it either a "new loan" or a "refinance"), the borrower agrees to start the loan all over again. For Sutton, that meant another seven months of $50 payments. In exchange, the borrower receives a payout. The amount is based on how much the borrower's payments to date have reduced the loan's principal. For Sutton, that didn't amount to much. She appears to have made three payments on her loan, totaling $150. (The company's accounting is opaque, and Sutton does not have a record of her payments.) But when she renewed the loan, she received only $44. Most of Sutton's payments had gone to cover interest, insurance premiums and other fees, not toward the principal. And when she renewed her loan a second time, it was no different. The effect is similar to how a mortgage amortizes: The portion of each payment that goes toward interest is at its highest the first month and decreases with each payment. As the principal is reduced, less interest is owed each month. By the end of the loan, the payments go almost entirely toward paying down the principal. World regularly sends out mailers, and its employees make frequent phone calls, all to make sure borrowers know they have funds available. Every time a borrower makes a payment, according to the company, that customer "receives a receipt reflecting, among other information, the remaining balance on the borrower's loan and, where applicable, the current new credit available for that borrower." And when a borrower visits a branch to make a payment, former employees say, employees are required to make the pitch in person. "You have to say, 'Let me see what I can do to get you money today,'" Buys recalled. If the borrower had money available on the account, it had to be offered, she and other former employees said. The typical pitch went like this, Kristin said: "'Oh, by the way, you've got $100 available, would you like to take that now or do you want to wait till next month?'" Customers would ask, "'Well, what does this mean?'" Buys said. "And you say, 'Oh, you're just starting your loan over, you know, your payments will be the same.'" The company often encourages customers to renew the loans by saying it will help them repair their credit scores, former employees said, since World reports to the three leading credit bureaus. Successively renewing loans also makes customers eligible for larger loans from World itself. After renewing her loan twice, for instance, Sutton received an extra $40. "We were taught to make [customers] think it was beneficial to them," Buys said. "Retail (i.e., consumer) lending is not significantly unlike other retail operations and, like those other forms of retail, World does market its services," the company wrote in its response to questions. About three-quarters of the company's loans are renewals, according to World's public filings. Customers often renew their loans after only two payments, according to former employees. The company declined to say how many of its renewals occur after two payments or how many times the average borrower renews a loan. Renewals are only granted to borrowers who can be expected to repay the new loan, it said. Lawsuits against other major installment lenders suggest these practices are common in the industry. A 2010 lawsuit in Texas claimed that Security Finance, a lender with about 900 locations in the United States, induced a borrower to renew her loan 16 times over a three-year period. The suit was settled. In 2004, an Oklahoma jury awarded a mentally disabled Security Finance borrower $1.8 million; he had renewed two loans a total of 37 times. After the company successfully appealed the amount of damages, the case was settled. Security Finance declined to respond to questions about the suits. Another 2010 suit against Sun Loan, a lender with more than 270 office locations, claims the company convinced a husband and wife to renew their loans more than two dozen times each over a five-year period. Cary Barton, an attorney representing the company in the suit, said renewals occur at the customer's request, often because he or she doesn't have enough money to make the monthly payment on the previous loan. The predominance of renewals means that for many of World's customers, the annual percentage rates on the loan contracts don't remotely capture the real costs. If a borrower takes out a 12-month loan for $700 at an 89 percent annual rate, for example, but repeatedly renews the loan after four payments of $90, he would receive a payout of $155 with each renewal. In effect, he is borrowing $155 over and over again. And for each of those loans, the effective annual rate isn't 89 percent. It's 537 percent. World called this calculation "completely erroneous," largely because it fails to account for the money the customer received from the original transaction. World's calculation of the annual percentage rate if a borrower followed this pattern of renewals for three years: about 110 percent. In every World office, employees say, there were loan files that had grown inches thick after dozens of renewals. At not just one but two World branches, Emma Johnson of Kennesaw, Ga., was that customer. Her case demonstrates how immensely profitable borrowers like her are for the company — and how the renewal strategy can transform long-term, lower-rate loans into short-term loans with the triple-digit annual rates of World's payday competitors. Since being laid off from her janitorial job in 2004, Johnson, 71, has lived primarily on Social Security. Last year, that amounted to $1,139 in income per month, plus a housing voucher and food stamps. Johnson could not remember when she first obtained a loan from World. Nor could she remember why she needed either of the loans. She can tell you, however, the names of the branch managers (Charles, Brittany, Robin) who've come and gone over the years, her loans still on the books. Johnson took out her first loan from World in 1993, the company said. Since that time, she has taken out 48 loans, counting both new loans and refinancings, from one branch. In 2001, she took out a loan from the second branch and began a similar string of renewals. When Johnson finally declared bankruptcy early this year, her two outstanding loans had face values of $3,510 and $2,970. She had renewed each loan at least 20 times, according to her credit reports. Over the last 10 years, she had made at least $21,000 in payments toward those two loans, and likely several thousand dollars more, according to a ProPublica analysis based on her credit reports and loan documents. Although the stated length of each loan was about two years, Johnson would renew each loan, on average, about every five months. The reasons varied, she said. "Sometimes stuff would just pop out of the blue," she said. This or that needed a repair, one of her children would need money. Sometimes, it was just too enticing to get that extra few hundred dollars, she acknowledged. "In a sense, I think I was addicted." It typically took only a few minutes to renew the loan, she said. The contract contained pages of disclosures and fine print, and the World employee would flip through, telling her to sign here, here and here, she recalled. Her loan contracts from recent years show that the payouts were small, often around $200. That wasn't much more than the $115 to $135 Johnson was paying each month on each loan. The contracts had stated APRs ranging from about 23 percent to 46 percent. But in reality, because Johnson's payments were largely going to interest and other fees, she was taking out small loans with annual rates typically in the triple digits, ranging to more than 800 percent. World also disputed this calculation. As she continued to pay, World would sometimes increase her balance, providing her a larger payout, but her monthly payment grew as well. It got harder and harder to make it from one Social Security check to the next. In 2010, she took out another loan, this one from an auto-title lender unconnected to World. Eventually, she gave up on juggling the three loans. By the end of each month, she was out of money. If she had to decide between basic necessities like gas and food and paying the loans, the choice, she finally realized, was easy. At World, a normal month begins with about 30 percent of customers late on their payments, former employees recalled. Some customers were habitually late because they relied on Social Security or pension checks that came later in the month. They might get hit with a late fee of $10 to $20, but they were otherwise reliable. Others required active attention. Phone calls are the first resort, and they begin immediately — sometimes even before the payment is due for customers who were frequently delinquent. When repeated calls to the home or cell phone, often several times a day, don't produce a payment, World's employees start calling the borrower at work. Next come calls to friends and family, or whomever the borrower put down as the seven "references" required as part of the loan application. "We called the references on a daily basis to the point where they got sick of us," said Simmons, who managed the Pine Mountain, Ga., store. If the phone calls don't work, the next step is to visit the customer at home: "chasing," in the company lingo. "If somebody hung up on us, we would go chase their house," said Kristin from Texas. The experience can be intimidating for customers, especially when coupled with threats to seize their possessions, but the former employees said they dreaded it, too. "That was the scariest part," recalled Thacker, a former Marine, who as part of his job at World often found himself driving, in the evening, deep into the Georgia countryside to knock on a borrower's door. He was threatened a number of times, he said, once with a baseball bat. Visits to the borrower's workplace are also common. The visits and calls at work often continue even after borrowers ask the company to stop, according to complaints from World customers to the Federal Trade Commission. Some borrowers complained the company's harassment risked getting them fired. ProPublica obtained the FTC complaints for World and several other installment loan companies through a Freedom of Information Act request. They show consistent tactics across the industry: the repeated phone calls, the personal visits. After she stopped paying, Johnson remembered, World employees called her two to three times a day. One employee threatened to "get some stuff at your house," she said, but she wasn't cowed. "I said, 'You guys can get this stuff if you want it.'" In addition, a World employee knocked on her door at least three times, she said. The goal of the calls and visits, former employees said, is only partly to prod the customer to make a payment. Frequently, it's also to persuade them to renew the loan. "That's [World's] favorite phrase: 'Pay and renew, pay and renew, pay and renew,'" Simmons said. "It was drilled into us." It's a tempting offer: Instead of just scrambling for the money to make that month's payment, the borrower gets some money back. And the renewal pushes the loan's next due date 30 days into the future, buying time. But the payouts for these renewals are often small, sometimes minuscule. In two of the contracts ProPublica examined, the customer agreed to start the loan all over again in exchange for no money at all. At other times, payouts were as low as $1, even when, as in one instance, the new loan's balance was more than $3,000. For Sutton, making her monthly payments was always a struggle. She remembered that when she called World to let them know she was going to be late with a payment, they insisted that she come in and renew the loan instead. As a result, seven months after getting the original $207 loan from World, Sutton wasn't making her final payment. Instead, she was renewing the loan for the second time. Altogether, she had borrowed $336, made $300 in payments, and now owed another $390. She was going backward. A summons of garnishment Katrina Sutton received. When World Finance discovered that it could not garnish Sutton’s wages, the company put a hold on her “payroll card,” a kind of debit card provided by her employer. She was left without any money to pay for the gas she needed to get to work. (Erik S. Lesser/EPA for ProPublica) Not long after that second renewal, Sutton said, Walmart reduced her hours, and there simply wasn't enough money to go around. "I called them at the time to say I didn't have money to pay them," she said. World told her she had to pay. The phone calls and home visitsfollowed. A World employee visited the Walmart store where she worked three times, she recalled. World didn't dispute that its employees came to Sutton's workplace, but it said that attempts to contact "any borrower at her place of employment would occur only after attempts to contact the borrower at her residence had failed." In Georgia, World had another path to force Sutton to pay: suing her. World files thousands of such suits each year in Georgia and other states, according to a review of court filings, but the company declined to provide precise figures. Because Sutton had a job, she was a prime target for a suit. Social Security income is off limits, but with a court judgment, a creditor can garnish up to 25 percent of a debtor's wages in Georgia. "When we got to sue somebody, [World] saw that as the jackpot," Buys said. In her Oklahoma store, collecting the junk people had pledged as collateral was considered useless. Garnishment was a more reliable way for the company to get its money, and any legal fees were the borrower's problem. World said 11 of the states where it operates permit lenders to "garnish customers' wages for repayment of loans, but the Company does not otherwise generally resort to litigation for collection purposes, and rarely attempts to foreclose on collateral." The sheriff served Sutton with a summons at Walmart, in front of her co-workers. Sutton responded with a written note to the court, saying she would pay but could only afford $20 per month. A court date was set, and when she appeared, she was greeted by the branch manager who had given her the original loan. The manager demanded Sutton pay $25 every two weeks. She agreed. For five months, Sutton kept up the payments. Then, because of taxes she had failed to pay years earlier, she said, the IRS seized a portion of her paycheck. Again, she stopped paying World. In response, the company filed to garnish her wages, but World received nothing: Sutton was earning too little for the company to legally get a slice of her pay. After two months, World took another step. Sutton's wages are paid via a "payroll card," a kind of debit card provided by Walmart. World filed to seize from Sutton's card the $450 it claimed she owed. By that point, she'd made more than $600 in payments to the company. The immediate result of the action was to freeze Sutton's account, her only source of income. She couldn't gas up her car. As a result, she couldn't drive to work. Sutton said she called a number for World's corporate office in a panic. "I said, 'You're gonna leave me with no money to live on?'" The World employee said the company had had no choice because Sutton didn't hold up her end of their agreement, Sutton recalled, and then the employee made an offer: If Sutton's available wages in her account hadn't covered her total debt to World after 30 days, the company would unfreeze her account and allow her to start a new payment plan. Desperate, she gave up trying to deal with the company on her own and went to Georgia Legal Services Program, a nonprofit that represents low-income clients across the state. "Her case is terribly egregious," said Michael Tafelski, a lawyer with GLSP who specializes in collections cases and represented Sutton. World had overstated the amount Sutton legally owed, he said, and circumvented laws limiting the amount of funds creditors can seize. In effect, the company was garnishing 100 percent of her wages. It's "unlike anything I have ever seen," Tafelski said, "and I have seen a lot of shady collectors." After Tafelski threatened to sue World, the company beat a quick retreat. It dismissed all open cases against Sutton and declared her obligation satisfied. In its response to ProPublica, World claimed that Tafelski had bullied the billion-dollar company: "Mr. Tafelski used abusive out of court threats to accomplish an end he knew he could not obtain through legal process." "It's common practice among lawyers to contact the opposing party to attempt to resolve problems quickly, without filing a lawsuit, especially in emergency cases like this one," Tafelski said. As for Sutton, she had missed several days of work, but her account was unfrozen, and she was done with World Finance forever. "If I'd known then what I know now," she said, "I'd never have fooled with them."
Wikimedia CommonsShares of Tesla have gone gangbusters since the company shocked the world with its first profitable quarter ever last Wednesday. The stock is up over 50% since last Wednesday. Anytime a company tells investors that things are better-than-expected, the investors respond positively buy boosting the stock price. However, the magnitude of Tesla's move suggests there is more to it than just good news. "The Tesla debate has moved on from questions of viability to measuring the success and sustainable competitive advantage of the business, triggering a dramatic compression of the stock’s implied risk premium," said Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas in a note to clients today. In other words, the market has concluded that Tesla is the real thing. Indeed, this change in expectations has also changed how analysts need to think about valuing the company. "Our rating, estimates and price target are under review, pending our analysis of changes to the company’s business model, addressable market and the associated risks," said Jonas. "Taking nothing away from the accomplishments of the Tesla team, triangulating the fundamental valuation with the share price is more challenging than for other stocks."

Road & track / YouTubeThe Tesla Model S.After smashing earnings and revenue expectations and earning the best Consumer Reports score ever for its all-electric Model S sedan, Tesla Motors is riding high. Sending it even higher is the fact that it looks like it is actually beating out the big dogs in the luxury auto segment, including Mercedes-Benz, BMW, and Audi. CNN Money looked at sales figures for the first quarter of 2012  for Tesla and the three German automakers in the large luxury segment. Tesla is way ahead: Tesla Model S: 4,750 Audi A8: 1,462 BMW 7-Series: 2,338 Mercedes-Benz S Class: 3,077 But as CNN Money notes (and John Voelcker at Green Car Reports pointed out last month), these numbers provide an incomplete picture. Because Tesla sells only one car, the Model S, it competes in only one category, large luxury sedans. It succeeds there, but does not even have entries to compete with the many other models offered by its larger competitors. Tesla isn't outselling BMW, Audi, or Mercedes-Benz. The Model S is outselling the BMW 7-Series, Audi A8, and Mercedes-Benz S-Class. Tesla is doing very well with the Model S, but it's still a small fish in a big pond. We should also point out that Musk's car did not win even win the large luxury sedan segment: It was beaten by Cadillac, which sold more than 7,000 units of its new, rather impressive XTS sedan between January and March. For a fuller picture of the luxury auto market, here are the U.S. luxury sales figures for the same brands in 2012. For Tesla, which does not report exact sales figures, we've used its 2013 sales goal, 21,000 vehicles. (Click to enlarge.) Business Insider Figures provided by Green Car Reports.
GoogleNPR recently aired an amazing interview by Kelly McEvers with a former U.S. drone pilot named Brandon Bryant. Bryant flew military drones for the U.S. from 2006 to 2010. Bryant worked in a trailer in Nevada. And he blasted targets in the Middle East, half a world away. This is Bryant's description of his first "shot": MCEVERS: In 2006, Bryant found himself wearing a flight suit and sitting in a kind of trailer in Las Vegas, Nevada, surrounded by monitors and the low hum of computers and servers. On his very first sortie as a pilot, Brandon watched from the drone's camera as American soldiers got blown up in Afghanistan. There was nothing he could do. That was before he'd ever taken his first so-called shot. I asked him about that. What was one of the more - if it's OK to talk about this - one of the more memorable moments when that - when you had to do that? BRYANT: I'll talk about my first shot because I still think about that. MCEVERS: This time, it was insurgents Brandon saw on the screen - one group who had been firing at U.S. troops and another group who was standing away from them. Brandon was ordered to fire a missile at the second group. BRYANT: We fired the missile, and 1.2 seconds after the missile fires, it sonic booms. And so the sonic boom gets there before the missile does. And the guy in the rear hears this, and he runs forward to the two guys in front and then the missile hits. And after the smoke clears, there's a crater there. You can see body parts of the people. But the guy that was running from the rear to the front, his left leg had been taken off above the knee, and I watched him bleed out. The blood rapidly cooled to become the same color as the ground, because we're watching this in infrared. And I eventually watched the guy become the same color as the ground that he died on. MCEVERS: Wow. So these guys had weapons strapped on their backs, but you did not see them using them, threatening to use them in any way. BRYANT: Correct. These guys had no hostile intent. And in my own mind, I thought of, you know - in Montana, here, we have - everyone has a gun. Like, these guys could've been local people that had to protect themselves or something similar to that. And I think we jumped the gun, you know? MCEVERS: Do you provide that information in any kind of follow-up reporting? You know, is there any exit interview where you report that information to your superiors? BRYANT: There's an after-action report, but the pilots are the ones that put it together. And the only thing that was in there was enemy combatants, confirmed weapons, all three taken out by one - by AGM-114 hellfire strike. So it doesn't really go into very much detail other than to tell what happened and what was the result. Brandon Bryant (Der Spiegel)Brandon Bryant.That was Bryant's first shot. His second shot left an even more indelible impression: MCEVERS: Did you ever have to take a shot that hit someone that was clearly a civilian? BRYANT: There was one, as actually my second shot, which was about a month after my first shot. This one was routine. We're watching this house. And end of my shift, it's coming close to being dawn in Vegas, and so it's nighttime over there. And there's very little activity. Like, every once in a while, a guy leaves the back of the house. And this guy was some sort of lieutenant of the commander of the area or something. I don't remember. I think there was supposedly three people left in the building and all were military males. We just aim at the corner of the building, we're going to fire, and we do. And there's about six seconds left before the missile impacts and something runs around the corner of the building. And it looked like a small person. There's no other way for me to describe. It was a small two-legged person. And the missile hits. There's no sign of this person. A large portion of the building's collapsed. There's no movement coming in and out of the building. So we lock our camera on there, and I ask the screener who disseminates the video feed, I asked: Can you review that? Like, what was that thing that ran on the screen? And he's, like, "one second--reviewing" and comes back and says: Oh, that was a dog. MCEVERS: When you reviewed that tape, what did you see? BRYANT: It was a person. It was a small person. Like, there's no doubt in my mind that that was not an adult. MCEVERS: And that was the end of your shift, so you just, like, walked out into Nevada after that, right? What did it look like? You said the sun had just come up... BRYANT: So I was getting out. The sun was coming over the mountains off in the background. And I remember just kind of - the light was too bright, and the dark places were too dark. I felt really numb. I didn't feel distraught like I felt my first shot. I felt numb because this is - this was the reality of war. Like, three instances in three months showed me pretty much every aspect that there is: that good guys can die, bad guys can die, and innocents can die as well. But Bryant didn't quit. Until afew years later, when he realized how much he had changed. MCEVERS: What made you finally quit? What was it? BRYANT: One day, it was late 2010, we had a wall that had five pictures on it of top al-Qaida leaders. And I remember walking in one day, and I kind of stopped and looked at one of these guys. And I was like, man, which one of these mother (bleep) is going to die today? And I stopped myself, and I was like, that's not me. Like, that's just not who I am. I don't think like that. I was taught to respect life, even if in the realities of war that we have to take it, it should be done with respect. And I wanted this guy to die. So I tried to talk to a couple of people about it. And one of the weird things about the whole drone community is that you don't talk about anything that you've done. You just don't. So I just shut up and didn't talk to anyone about how I was feeling or how I was doing. MCEVERS: So you quit. BRYANT: Yeah. I just - I couldn't do it anymore. Bryant lives in Montana now. He's going to college on the G.I. bill. Otherwise, things aren't going that well for him. He has been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder. He doesn't have a place to live. He just stays with friends. You can listen to Kelly McEvers' interview and read the full transcript here &gt;
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. John Hussman: Recklessness And Crowd Following Has Been Rewarded But Retaining This Windfall Will Be Difficult (Advisor Perspectives) John Hussman at Hussman Funds writes that the average bear market fall can erase over 50% of the previous bull market's advance. He thinks that is true this time around as well. He expects nominal S&amp;P 500 return of 3.2% annually in the next 10 years.  "The perception that investors are “forced” to hold stocks is driven by a growing inattention to risk. But Investors are not simply choosing between a 3.2% prospective 10-year return in stocks versus a zero return on cash. They are also choosing between an exposure to 30-50% interim losses in stocks versus an exposure to zero loss in cash. "…Think about that. One literally could have sat in Treasury bills through 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, and into early 2009, and have done better than the S&amp;P 500 did over that entire span of time. Moderate losses are frustrating, but deep, major losses from rich valuations are the ones that matter, because it is difficult to recover from them in a durable way. The recent advance is a gift in that regard. Consider that carefully now, not later. "…There will be opportunities to take constructive investment positions, certainly at the completion of the present market cycle, but most likely even in the event that the advancing portion of this cycle continues. Choosing those points, based on demonstrable evidence, is essential. Recklessness, crowd-following, euphoria, fear of missed gains, and monetary superstition has certainly been rewarded lately, in a way that seems indistinguishable from insight and genius. Retaining such windfalls will prove far more difficult." Ignoring Tiny Funds Is A Big Mistake (Barron's)  Investors tend to be wary of "tiny funds" because they assume that the lack of assets means something is wrong with the fund. But Sarah Max writes that these funds should get a second look because often they are run by managers that have moved over after a great run at bigger firms.  David Waddell of Waddell &amp; Associates told Barron's "For us, it's about finding a manager with talent, conviction, and control. When you have a small asset base, the manager is the CIO and the CFO, and the success of their firm hinges on the success of the portfolio." Morgan Stanley Launches In-House Tool That Lets Advisors See What Their Colleagues Are Buying Or Selling (The Wall Street Journal) Morgan Stanley's Wealth Management unit has launched a tool called Trade Flow Insights. This in-house tool gives advisors access to what their colleagues at Morgan Stanley are buying and selling, and asset allocations, according to the Wall Street Journal. For the information to to show up though it needs to occur among at least 50 advisors and be in 4,000 client accounts. 92% Of Investors Expect A Great Summer (Bank of America) A new investor poll from BAML shows that only 8% of investors think we will see another 'sell in May and go away.' "Only 8% of investors believe that we are at risk of seeing markets repeat the pattern of 2012 and 2011 with significant risk-off episodes in the summer following data weakness in the spring." Moreover, most surveyed did not seem worried about a rise in bond yields. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research Corporate Profit Margins Will Stay High (UBS) Rising capacity utilization and cost management are the two factors driving higher margins, according to UBS' Jonathan Golub. Looking at capacity utilization and operating margins he writes, "based on historical patterns we believe each has further upside potential." He goes on to write that, "despite the historically tight relationship between operating margins and capacity utilization, we believe the recent margin pick-up has largely been driven by companies managing their costs rather than benefiting from operating leverage."UBS
Business InsiderAnd this is just getting even more embarrassing... The Financial Times' Daniel Schäfer and Andrew Edgecliffe-Johnson report that thousands messages between traders on their Bloomberg Terminals were accidentally posted online and available through a simple Google search for years. The more than 10,000 messages from 2009 and 2010—which were taken down today—included information such as names, email addresses and trading data, the report said. They were posted on what was thought to be a secure site by a former Bloomberg employee (not a reporter) as part of a data mining project for pricing financial products, the FT's report said.  Bloomberg told the FT that this would be against their policy and that they're considering all potential legal actions.   Bloomberg News reporters were just busted spying on employees at JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs (at the very least) by tracking private client information on the Terminals.  After Goldman complained, the media giant has suspended access to this data by its reporters. If you're not already familiar, a Bloomberg Terminal is a machine that's targeted toward financial professionals so they can message other users, obtain real-time market data, news, and stock quotes among many other functions.  There are about 300,000 being used world-wide and they cost about $20,000 per year.  Both the CEO of Bloomberg and the editor-in-chief issued apologies.    Read the full report at the FT &gt;
JCPenney has spent billions of dollars remodeling its stores into modern boutiques. While most stores are still under construction, Wall Street analyst Brian Sozzi took a quick video inside a Long Island JCPenney with completed stores. The result looks great: modern, clean, and chic. Sozzi uploaded the video to the website of his firm, Belus Capital. Check out the new shop-in-shops here: 
YouTube/ScreenshotThis week kicked off with a bullish economic report. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,091, -26.8 pts, -0.1%S&amp;P 500: 1,633, +0.0 pts, +0.0%NASDAQ: 3,438, +2.2 pts, +0.0% And now the top stories:
Maybe you haven't been paying attention to the longest, most epic album roll-out in music history, and maybe you have — either way, Daft Punk's long awaited new album "Random Access Memories" is almost upon us. It's out next week officially, but you can stream it on iTunes now. For weeks mysterious leaks (both legitimate and illegitimate) have teased fans around the world. To ease some of the suffering, the faithful have been playing the single, 'Get Lucky' on repeat and watching video interviews with the album's illustrious producers in a video series called 'Daft Punk: the Collaborators.' Slowly, posters announcing the coming of 'The Robots' (as the French duo are often called) started appearing in cities around the world. That's all well and good for the dance heads and beat detectives that have been waiting for this for years — It's even better for everyone else. Daft Punk is about to change all our lives, or at least our weekends. Think about it: Now that the album is out, it's going to be everywhere. It will be in bars that play Rhianna and at sporting events to get the crowd clapping. You'll hear it right after a Taylor Swift track while you're waiting in line at the drug store, it will be recommended to you on iTunes and Spotify. Everyone will be talking about it and debating its merits. To compare it to Daft Punk's older work, the old hits will start playing too. It's inevitable. This is going to be a global discussion. No one will be safe from The Robots. And that's probably a good thing. The concept behind 'Random Access Memories' is to get away from the electronic dance music production that has gotten so ubiquitous. Yes, Daft Punk is an electro duo, and the album will keep their sound, but for this installment, the Robots were looking for live instruments and classic production. To do that, they stacked the album with some of the most brilliant minds in popular music today. Producers include Pharrell, Giorgio Moroder, and the great Nile Rogers. If you're not familiar with Moroder, you should know that he is the mind behind some of disco queen Donna Summer's greatest hits like 'I Feel Love' and 'Love to Love You Baby.' As for Nile Rogers, his work is IMPOSSIBLE not to recognize. He's one of the most powerful, hidden forces in pop music. His sound is all around you. He's the founder of Chic, Sister Sledge and a number of other inescapable disco acts. Rogers is also responsible for a number of classic albums, including Madonna's 'Like A Virgin' album and David Bowie's 'Let's Dance,' to name just a few. In other words, Daft Punk brought in the big guns. So whether you're a fan of dance music or not, prepare for an onslaught of Daft Punk. The Robots are coming, and they are welcome.
CNBCJeff SautJeff Saut, the veteran strategist over at Raymond James, offers a pretty bullish call this week. The S&amp;P 500 is trading right at it's all-time closing high of 1,633 right now. Saut sees it going much higher. From his new commentary: The call for this week: As stated in Friday’s verbal strategy comments, there is a small window for a mild pullback this week with my daily internal energy indicator out of energy. However, there is minor support for the S&amp;P 500 (SPX/1633.70) at 1614, and major support between 1590 and 1600, so I think any selling should be contained by one of those support levels with no damage to the uptrend. More importantly, last week the Buying Power Index crossed above the Selling Pressure Index (see chart on page 3), confirming the strength of the primary uptrend. Accordingly, I don’t think the bears can prevent a move to 1700 into the end of the quarter (July 1st) unless there is some kind of “black swan” event. Here's the chart Saut offered: Thomson Reuters via Jeff Saut
Wikimedia CommonsMired in an economic crisis, Portugal is selling off its assets, including an eight-room co-op at the Dakota at 1 West 72nd Street that the country has owned for 40-plus years, according to the New York Post. John Burger and Guida De Carvalhosa had the listing, while Jason Haber, the founder of Rubicon Property, represented the buyer. The asking price was $12.95 million, though it was purchased for $250,000 in 1971, the Post said. The Upper West Side apartment, used for formal parties hosted by ambassadors, features three fireplaces and a 12-foot ceiling on the Dakota’s seventh floor. In March, a three-bedroom unit at the Dakota went into contract, after several price slashes, for $11 million, a far cry from its listing price of $19.5 million. [NYP]  More from The Real Deal: 1. Steve Witkoff revealed as “friend” of indicted Russian mobster 2. Manhattan renters: get ready for a cutthroat summer3. “Million Dollar Listing New York” season debut: The real story
A cool photo from NYC Aviation of Air Force One on final approach to JFK just now: @NYC Aviation Obama is speaking at a couple of "private residences" this evening, then flying back to Washington.
A cool photo from NYC Aviation of Air Force One on final approach to JFK just now: @NYC Aviation Obama is speaking at a couple of "private residences" this evening, then flying back to Washington.

Lots of traders were shorting electric car-maker Tesla ahead of its earnings announcement last week.  And those traders have since seen their positions get obliterated. Tesla is up a whopping 51% since May 8. It's also up 142% in the past six months. The short interest as a percentage of TSLA's total float stands at a remarkable 41.4%. We wanted to see which other stocks with heavy short interests were frying their doubters. Below is a list of 11 stocks with short interest greater than 30% of float, who've seen rallies top the S&amp;P 500's 18% returns over the past six months. Bloomberg, Yahoo
Amanda Gordon/BloombergAfter years ofcripplinglosses, the one-time hedge fund superstar - now just a mere mortal fund manager John Paulson, is offering his (very patient) investors some decent returns. In 2013 there are many highperforminghedge funds (nudge nudge, wink wink Japan), and for the first time since his monster bet against the US housing market, he is running up front. The top list so far in 2013 from HSBC shows that Paulson Recovery Fund has returned 21.01% so far in 2013. The fund ismakes bets on investments designed to benefit from a long-term economic advance. However, the rest of his funds are being cut down by massive long bets on gold and it's said that John Paulson has personally lost over $1bn so far in 2013 on the gold drop alone. Here's the top list so far in 2013: finanskrobat
Shoppers are finally coming back to JCPenney. The department store has seen a "significant" increase in sales and traffic in May, reports Matt Townsend at Bloomberg News, citing Cleveland Research analyst Jeff Stinson. JCPenney shares are also up a month after unpopular CEO Ron Johnson left the company and management reinstated coupons. The former Apple executive left last month after just 17 months on the job.  During his time at JCPenney, Johnson tried to make the store more modern by eliminating its popular promotions program and pouring billions of dollars into renovating stores.  But his plan backfired and drove many of the company's loyal customers away. Millennials, Johnson's target audience, didn't want anything to do with JCPenney.  Since Johnson was replaced by his predecessor Mike Ullman, the retailer has embarked on an epic apology tour.  Two weeks ago, JCPenney debuted an incredible ad apologizing for the missteps of the past year. The company also took to social media to address customer concerns.  The company just released another ad thanking customers for coming back in stores.  It looks like JCPenney is finally getting the boost it desperately needs to survive. 
Wikimedia CommonsThe Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exams are happening on June 1.  Consisting of three levels, they are considered to be the most difficult exams taken by Wall Streeters with fewer than20 percent of candidatespassing all three tests on the first try. What's more is the average test-taker spends a solid five to six months preparing, so you can imagine those taking the June exam are in crunch mode. We talked to a CFA charterholder, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity, about things he didn't think he needed to know for the exams. We've included the concepts he totally blew off.  Disclaimer: We don't claim to be an expert in offering exam advice. 
There's a tremendously depressing in-depth article at the Washington Post centered around a group of daytraders in southern Florida that's been pinging around the financial blogosphere all weekend. It's focused on one of these traders, a 25-year old named Dylan who seems to  have had better than average luck so far and is, at the very least, realistic about the career path he's on... What mostly weighs on their minds is whether they can turn this exciting, lucrative, adrenaline-filled job into a lifelong career. It’s not just the trading odds that are against them. The psychological odds are, too. “The reason why there aren’t older guys in the office is because of the stress,” Dylan says. “I can see even now that you can get burned out after doing it for five, 10 years. There are nights you can’t sleep because you’re so exposed, or you lie there thinking about the big jobs number that is coming out tomorrow and you know you’re either going to earn $50,000 or lose $50,000, but you don’t know which.” Under stress, a trader is apt to become too cautious or too comfortable with one trading strategy — and before long he’s caught in one of those self- reinforcing downward spirals of declining income, declining confidence and declining risk tolerance. I have a very simple piece of advice for you, Dylan, having watched a few waves of this daytrading thing since it first began in the late 90's. I know guys who are really good at it and love it but they are the exception. A tiny minority. Before I impart my advice, you should know the following - even if I'm merely reinforcing the things you've already come to realize: 1.  The odds are against you (or anyone else) being consistently profitable through all of the different market environments that lay ahead. 2.  The odds are also against you maintaining your sanity and staying one step ahead of machines that are learning your strategies and being trained to kill you. 3.  More importantly, the frustration of putting in the work, deserving to succeed and then losing anyway is one of the worst feelings known to man, a crushing blow to one's psyche, ego and soul. The thing about short-term market speculation in what is essentially a complex adaptive system is that this will happen all of the time no matter how hard you work. 4.  Independent trading adds very little to a resume as the skills are not exactly readily transferrable to most of the economy, even within the mainstream financial realm. I have friends who've spent years trading who've had to dress this time spent as an IT position to get into a company doing something more permanent. That said, it's not my place to tell you to stop doing something you've got a knack for and that's making you money. You deserve all of the success and profits you've worked for and I hope your run continues. So if you do plan to stay in the daytrading industry, do yourself a huge favor: Own the firm. Buy into the firm you're currently working at or raise the capital to start your own. Because should your skill decline or your nerves begin to betray you, at least you can continue to get paid from the efforts of the other traders, some of whom will win but most of whom will not. You will benefit regardless. Look around: the big success stories are usually - not always, but usually - the owners of the daytrading firms themselves. When you own the firm, you can focus on improving the technology, getting competitive with the algos of other firms, building software to speed up your processes etc. When you own the casino, you can worry less about who wins and who loses each day, week, month. You can be paid on the trading activity of others, marking them up for licensing, ticket charges, margin balances, data feeds, desk space, "education" - whatever you want. Once the bodies are in the seats, they become not just your employees but your customers as well. And then you can trade your own account without it being Life or Death each day. With this pressure relieved, you may even see your own trading results improve. I leave you with the sage words of David Merkel, from a post he put up about how people become rich from late January (emphasis mine): Those that become super-rich form their own firms, and use them to further their wealth.  They hire talented people to grow their wealth.  It can be a purely industrial firm.  It can be part industrial and investing, like Loews, Berkshire Hathaway, Leucadia, Icahn, etc.  It can be a private firm, whether private equity, a hedge fund, or an industrial firm. The main idea here is that great wealth typically comes through running a large firm that is very profitable, which concentrates the efforts of others.  Significant wealth never comes through your own labors or secondary-market investing.  It comes through creating a very profitable firm. Now think about how many real-world examples there are of single investors or traders who've made it big absent the equity ownership of a company. I can think of none offhand, although I'm sure they exist. But I can name a hundreds of owners or founders of firms who've made a fortune by simply setting up the machinery and allowing others to try their luck or skill. Dylan, you seem smart. Start planning for a reality in which you're not chained to the monitor and you don't have to kill a lion each month in order to eat. You will thank me someday. Sources: Meet Dylan the Daytrader (Washington Post)  How to Become Super-Rich? (Aleph Blog)
Q1 earnings season is wrapping up with 92% of the S&amp;P 500 having already reported their earnings. "In aggregate, companies have exceeded EPS estimates, modestly missed on revenues, and continued to issue negative guidance," notes Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker. Regarding that last point, Parker adds that the negative-to-positive guidance ratio is at a multi-year high of 4.1.  The average since Q1 of 2005 is 2.4. "Negative 2013 guidance has driven analyst estimates lower," said Parker. "Over the past month, analysts have revised down their 2013 S&amp;P 500 estimates 0.3%. As you can see from the chart, the outlook for earnings has only been going down. "We expect S&amp;P 500 EPS of $103 and $110 in 2013 and 2014, well below consensus estimates of $111 and $124," added the bearish Parker. Morgan Stanley
A study by Blackrock of the world's top 15 fund managers found that their ETF ownership increased on average by more than 30% a year over the three year period ending September 2012.  The use of ETFs by has evolved as the market has matured and fund managers feel more comfortable in that space. Initially, ETFS were used for cash equitisation or transitions, but now are used to for more strategic purposes of gaining exposure to new asset classes or countries or regions.        Read more posts on Marc to Market 

Brian Kersey/Getty ImagesThe media frenzy surrounding the news that Bloomberg reporters were using their terminals to access important information about bankers, government officials, and more serves to remind us of one thing  the Bloomberg terminal is one of the most powerful machines in the world. If you've never used one before, it's impossible to understand the kind of information users can access. For the most part this is public info (you could find it in a company's filings, fo example), but Bloomberg just makes it customizable and easy to find. We're talking about taking big data, and squeezing it into easy-to-manage charts and lists right at your fingertips. Business Insider contacted terminal users all over the Street to get the functions they consider most valuable. One answer we got that can't even be measured is the fact that users can build their own functions based on their needs. That means some of the best functions out there are probably closely held secrets. Here are a few powerful public functions Wall Streeters told us they couldn't live without. So while this "spying" scandal looks bad, there aren't many people willing to disconnect from all of this stuff.

Mathematics is full of counterintuitive facts and problems that push your mind to new areas and challenge your cognitive versatility. The next nine facts are just a few of those puzzles; problems that have a habit of sparking arguments and debates among even some of the smartest students. While they may seem controversial, they're all rock solid fact. Several of them are paradoxes and idiosyncrasies of probability. Others play your instincts against your logic.If you're looking for a mathematical way to impress your friends and beguile your enemies, here's a good place to start. Just a heads-up, these problems are a little tougher than last time. If you lose track, don't quit.
Zillow/WikipediaMedia mogul Rupert Murdoch is the new owner of a 16-acre vineyard in the Bel Air neighborhood of Los Angeles, The Los Angeles Times reports. The property, called Moraga Vineyards and Winery, comes with a large residence. We don't know the final sale price, but it had been listed for $29.5 million. The estate previously belonged to former Northrop Grumman CEO Thomas Jones, who owned it for three decades and started making wine there, according to Curbed. Murdoch first checked out the place after reading about it in The Wall Street Journal, according to the LA Times. The tycoon tweeted about his purchase Friday, saying, "About to celebrate buying beautiful small vineyard right in LA. Great wine, Moraga, owned by great Angelino, Tom Jones. Time cover,1961!"
This was such an offense against local sensitivities that a reporter called the dairymen for comment, which they declined. You might think this kerfuffle isn’t newsworthy, but the worst thing you can do these days is to compare the Great State of Texas to California. You might as well call Gov. Rick Perry a vegan. The provincial chest beating by Perry over Texas’ superiority to California escalated this week when Pres. Barack Obama kicked off his “Middle Class Jobs and Opportunity” tour in Austin. Perry was polite to Obama on the tarmac but snide in a newspaper ad welcoming the president to town. “Welcome to the Lone Star State, Mr. President,” said Perry in the ad. “Because your visit is focused on the economy, we’d like to show you how we’re creating jobs and opportunity in Texas. Here’s a handy checklist for you to take back to Washington.” Obama’s Austin itinerary neatly encapsulated his education-first, collaborative economic philosophy. First he visited a school where lower-income minority kids have access to technology and seem to be succeeding. From there, Obama stumped for prosperity at a tech startup incubator and then at Applied Materials, the nation’s leading chip-manufacturing equipment maker that employs 2,500 people in Austin. Applied Materials is based in, you guessed it, California. “We’re seeing people work together, not because of politics or because of some selfish reason but because folks understand when everyone’s working together, everyone does better, everyone succeeds,” Obama said at Manor New Technology High School. Perry couldn’t let it go. “He didn’t go to Detroit. He didn’t go to Chicago. He didn’t go to some of the cities in California that have been declared bankrupt. He came to Austin, Texas, and he came here because we are a success story. Whether you’re playing for the red team or you’re playing for the blue team, you like to hang out with a winner,” he said. “And Texas is a winner.” California, Perry seemed to imply, is a big loser. Perry can accurately say that a third of all jobs created in the United States over the last decade were in Texas, but California saw a bigger increase in nonfarm job growth last year, 2.6% to 2.1%, according to the U.S. Dept. of Labor. And Silicon Valley—where Perry went earlier this year to lure companies to Texas—is now creating jobs faster than any region in the country at a rate they haven’t seen since the dot com boom. California has so many successful businesses for Perry to poach thanks to its enviable higher education system. Yes, the taxes are high, the regulations burdensome, and its state government only occasionally functional. But the California Institute of Technology, Stanford University, University of California at Berkeley and the other seven research universities churn out entrepreneurial geniuses faster than venture capitalists can fund them. Texas only has three Tier 1 research universities, and one of them is Perry’s alma mater where he got a C in animal husbandry after growing up on a farm. So Perry’s reduced to bribing out-of-state businesses by offering low taxes, low regulations and—as often as not—cash payments that come at the expense of adequately funding our public school system. Of course the Texas Model works. You’d feel rich and popular, too, if you stopped funding your 401k and took your friends out to dinner instead. Obama’s too circumspect to say so—and Perry might not be bright enough to realize it—but the Texas Model is mortgaging the future for today’s enviable job growth. Texas is squandering its economic lead by not investing in education. Perry would do well to spend our money creating new research universities to create a sustainable, broad-based prosperity rather wasting money to score cheap political points on cheesy newspaper ads.
The BofA Merrill Lynch rates and currencies team conducts a survey of market views from72 global fixed income fund managers every month. The latest survey results are out, and BofA clients sound decidedly optimistic about this summer: Sell in May and go away not a theme for this market:Only 8% of investors believe that we are at risk of seeing markets repeat the pattern of 2012 and 2011 with significant risk-off episodes in the summer following data weakness in the spring (see Chart 1). Consequently investors expect to maintain risk positions or add risk exposure in May. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research Last week, BAML Head of Global Rates and Currencies Research David Woo gave some more color on this specific topic based on conversations with clients: Clients who believe we pay too much attention to weak data have laid out threereasons why we are wrong. One, data points to slow growth ahead but there areno signs yet for a very sharp slowdown ("bad news is not bad enough"). Two,weak data means the Fed will be on hold for longer ("bad news is good news"). Three, the impact of US fiscal tightening is ultimately transitory and when it startsto fade, the US economy will roar ("good news will follow bad news"). One risk investors definitely do not have on their radar, according to the survey, is an untimely rise in bond yields, a scenario BofA strategists Ralf Preusser and Richard Cochinos describe as "the biggest risk to carry trades globally": No-one is worried about a back-up in rates:The risk the market may be most complacent about is a sharp back-up in yields (as seen on Friday), with only 8% of investors seeing USTs close Q2 above 2.00%. Such a back-up in yields seems to pose the largest risk to carry trades in fixed income at the moment. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research When posed with the "sell in May and go away" question, 59% of survey respondents said that in May, they would "maintain risk broadly unchanged," 14% said they would "increase risk positions," 14% said they "don't know" what they will do, and 13% said they would "reduce risk globally." The survey was conducted between May 3 and May 8.
Getty ImagesJerry SanduskyEveryone on Wall Street has been talking about how Bloomberg News reporters used private user data from Bloomberg Terminals to essentially spy on employees at JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs. This all came to light after an unidentified Bloomberg reporter pointed out to Goldman that a partner had not used his terminal in an unusually long period of time and inquired if he left the bank, the New York Post reported.   If you're not already familiar with them, a Bloomberg Terminal is a computer that's targeted toward financial professionals so they can message other users, obtain real-time market data, news, and stock quotes among many other functions. The terminal, which costs about $20,000 per subscription, is a powerful tool for finance professionals.  It's also a big money maker for Bloomberg LP with more than 300,000 terminals being used globally.   The power of the terminal was also emphasized among Bloomberg reporters for informing coverage of their stories.  According to a source familiar with the situation, reporters at Bloomberg were brought into a meeting back in 2011 to learn how to better use the terminal to find sources for their stories. We're told this particular meeting happened around the time of the arrest of Jerry Sandusky, the former Penn State football coach who had been charged and later convicted with sexually assaulting several boys.    The source said they used Sandusky as an example at the meeting of how you could look up people who went to Penn State and if they played football while he was a coach. Managers emphasized that Bloomberg was the "original Facebook." Terminals are a great resource for looking up sources, especially in finance. Bloomberg users have profiles set up pretty much like a social network.  Some people add their photo, their interests, where they went to school and previous organizations where they worked. What's more is those reporters with access to terminals could then send messages and/or chat with potential sources on the terminal's instant messaging system.     We're told it was common practice among Bloomberg reporters to use terminals for reporting purposes, including the private client information. Bloomberg has now restricted reporter access to private client information on the terminals after Goldman complained.  Bloomberg's CEO Daniel Doctoroff said in a statement it was a mistake to let their reporters have access to this private client information.  Editor-In-Chief Matthew Winkler also issued an apology.
Tesla's stock has been on a tear after the company reported its first quarterly profit last week. Earnings crushed expectations and Consumer Reports gave it a 99/100  the highest score ever. The stock is up 9% today to $82.79. Tesla is up 51% since May 8, when it reported earnings, and is up nearly 148% year-to-date. Here's a look at the stock since it reported earnings: Google Finance
Bill Gross, the bond investing legend who runs the world's biggest fixed income fund at PIMCO, last week declared in a tweet that the 30-year secular bull market in bonds ended on April 29, 2013. However, that doesn't mean bonds are about to enter a bear market, says Gross today in another tweet – in fact, they may never enter a bear market: Gross: 30-yr bond bull mkt over but bear mkt begins only with consistent 2-3% real &amp; 4-5% nominal GDP growth. Not there yet. Maybe never.
The Fed has been trying to boost employment by keeping interest rates way low. The theory is, companies will be more willing to borrow and invest in their businesses if banks are giving them good opportunities to do so. The Fed has acknowledged its easing policy has not come without costs, especially for savers. But on the surface, inflation has remained stable. It's not quite so simple, however. In many key areas middle class folks count on, prices have gone up severely.  The following charts demonstrate the extent of the problem.
flikr/DVIDSHUBAmid this whole Bloomberg reporters spying on bankers scandal via private info from Bloomberg Terminals, we've figured out there is a way to make your login status "invisible."  See when you're logged in, there's a green dot next to your Bloomberg Terminal profile, which could be helpful in alerting reporters that you're at your job. You can get rid of that green dot next to your user name that indicates that you're currently logged in. Here's how it works: You need to go to Windows&gt;&gt;IB Contacts&gt;&gt; where you see Status choose a dropdown menu --&gt; 2  Away, which will indicate you have stepped away from the keyboard, or 3  Set Custom Status Message. "user-defined" status options are: Green (Online), Gray (Private), and Orange (Away). Other color defines are 1) Yellow 2) Red (Offline): User is logged out of both the terminal and the mobile version of IB 3) Blue (Mobile Device) For gray go to MGU &lt;GO&gt; "Display My Online Presence to" will change your status as follows: 1) Nobody: Gray dot (Private) 2) All: Green dot (Online) 3) My Firm: Online status to users within your firm and Private status to all others. Press &lt;GO&gt; 1 &lt;GO&gt; to save.  It could take up to 24 hours for the changes to appear, though. Of course this is just one way for reporters and others to "spy" on you. It doesn't take care of everything.
Business Insider, St. Louis FedThe deficit as a percentage of GDP.One of our two political parties is still saying that the United States faces a "spending crisis" that must be immediately addressed by further cuts to federal spending. If we do not cut spending, the Republicans say, our debts will spiral out of control and the country will implode. The good news, for those who don't relish the thought of the country imploding, is that this fear-mongering appears to be seriously overblown. Our debt and deficit crisis is actually getting better fast. The deficit itself is now shrinking quickly, and--as evidenced by today's super-low interest rates--the bond market is not worried about our ability to maintain our debt load over the long haul. The ongoing budget deficit, furthermore, is not just the result of a "spending problem." It's also the result of a "low tax problem," at least relative to most prior history. Over the long-term, if we don't get our health care and military spending under control, we will face a big deficit problem. But we don't today. Don't believe it?
James Altucher is a blogger, author, and Internet journeyman with big ideas. His latest is to sell his new book, Choose Yourself, exclusively via Bitcoin starting today. (It will be available for purchase through all the conventional means starting June 3rd.) We caught up with James to talk Bitcoins, his new book, and what it means to "choose yourself." BUSINESS INSIDER: What's the book about? What do you want people to take away from it?  JAMES ALTUCHER: My book is called "Choose Yourself!" because it's about the best investment – when we invest in ourselves.  It's about how we live in a word where all the large institutional structures that supposedly supplied "safety" to the individual are slowly disintegrating. The only way we can thrive as entrepreneurs, artists, innovators, or whatever we want to do to live successful lives is to choose ourselves for that success. No longer can we rely on the old paradigms ("school", "corporations", "government", etc) to provide the safety and success we deserve.  In fact, it might be the only way to be successful, whether you want to achieve success in entrepreneurial endeavors, financial, artistic, creative, or any passion that you pursue.  I only advise what I have done for myself and I wouldn't presume to give any advice that has not worked for me. I describe how I hit bottom (more than once. Ha, more than thrice) and how I used the techniques I describe in this book to pick myself up off the floor and make millions. I then give other examples, stories, and testimonials, as well as talk about the economic shift that is occurring now that is forcing people to choose themselves rather than wait for the powers-that-be to reach down from the corporate skies to choose them. That isn't happening anymore.  And yet more opportunities exist than ever before. It's either an exciting time or a scary time. But, either way, it's our choice.  I had a fun time writing it. As a side note: I am very happy that Dick Costolo, the CEO of Twitter, wrote the foreword. BI:  Why make your book only available for purchase by Bitcoin at launch? Why make the paper-dollar crowd wait to buy it? JA: The kindle and hardcover and audio versions of my book are all going to be available on Amazon on June 3. I like working with Amazon and that has always been my planned release date and I have a lot of fun stuff planned around that date including some surprising announcements and experiments I am trying. Many people who self-publish right now are simply uploading their files and hoping for the best. I am self-publishing as if I were my own actual publishing company and doing every aspect of this perhaps even more professionally than a publishing company does things. I plan on describing the step-by-step in a separate post on what things I did here that are different than the average self-published (or even mainstream-published) book. So that's why I decided to keep June 3 as the official release date.  That said, the book is ready now, I'm fascinated by Bitcoin as a "Choose Yourself" currency, and didn't think it was a big deal to release it this way three weeks early. I don't expect a lot of people will buy via Bitcoins (I don't think that many people have Bitcoins) but I liked the idea of being the FIRST book in history to be, for a couple of weeks at least, only available on Bitcoin. BI: Set us straight on Bitcoin – is it only hot for the moment or is it here to stay? JA: At first I thought Bitcoin was a fad because I kept seeing daytraders gamble and lose money on it. Daytraders should not be daytrading Bitcoins. But after extensive conversations with a friend of mine, Naval Ravikant, the founder of AngelList, he convinced me that Bitcoin is, in fact, the first "choose yourself" currency. It is not dependent on any one institution or person to bless its success. He convinced me (plus subsequent research) that Bitcoin has many features that make it attractive not only as a potential future currency but as a replacement for all contract law. In one swoop, any economy that takes up Bitcoin as a currency will rewrite all contract law (eliminating the need for lawyers in 99% of situations), will eliminate the need for exchanges, and make international trade infinitely simpler. A lot of my answers, and a lot of the reason why I did this is based on the conversation I had with Naval plus subsequent research. Additionally, Naval was the first person to buy the book using Bitcoin. Bitcoin is a "choose yourself" currency. So I wanted to make this the first book ever to be for sale ONLY on Bitcoin if you want to read it before the final release. What makes it a "choose yourself" currency? It is not dependent on any one person (for instance, a Federal Reserve Chairman).  It is not dependent on a government (for instance, a government that relies on a fiat currency).  It is not dependent on complicated central bank operations to have the money transfer from one wallet to another (every wire or transfer, or even credit card transaction)  from one human to another in US currency involves the central bank at some level unless it is in small amounts like a cash transaction). Nor is it dependent on "In God We Trust", a phrase that was first put on coins in 1862 to instill more "faith" in a currency that was potentially in trouble due to war. Will it be here to stay? Nobody knows. Ultimately, a government/country acknowledges something as currency if it accepts that currency as tax revenues. Else, it is not a valid currency in that country. Bitcoin is not a valid currency in the United States, just like gold and yen are not currencies in the United States. You can use gold and yen to barter in the US but it is actually very difficult to do so and most people would just as soon do transactions with dollars. That said, for complicated transactions there are several things which are no longer necessary given current Bitcoin technology: an overlay of contract law (when people do a sophisticated transaction it often involves escrows, lawyers, banks, etc. to complete the transaction) and for international transactions, central banks are involved. These things are not necessary for a Bitcoin transaction. Furthermore, there ultimately will be a fixed amount of Bitcoins. This will get rid of the pervasive worry that a government can print its way to inflation, which has happened quickly in some countries in dire circumstances (Zimbabwe, Argentina in the 80s, Germany in the 20s) and more slowly in the US (where the dollar has lost 97% of it's value since 1913). Whether or not Bitcoin is the "winner" it has several qualities that are going to be important for "Currency 2.0": For these reasons, Bitcoin is like the "Internet of Money". Will Bitcoin be the winner? Who knows. But the eventual Currency 2.0 must have the above characteristics and Bitcoin is the winner so far. BI: Are you familiar with other currencies like Litecoin? What's your take on those? JA: Very familiar with Litecoin. Litecoin is very similar to Bitcoin but there are small technical differences. However, the primary difference right now is simply that Bitcoin is first and for various reasons that makes it less prone to hacking or manipulation. Since the size of the Bitcoin universe is bigger at the moment, it is much more difficult for one entity to control it. For now, Bitcoin is the Currency 2.0 of choice no matter what Litecoin does. That said, I do believe PPCoin (#3 in transactions after Bitcoin and Litecoin) has some significant differences and I will be adding PPCoin functionality within the next week. BI: Do you personally own any Bitcoins? Ever bought anything with them? JA: Yes, I bought my own book with Bitcoin. I haven't bought anything else with them. I prefer to horde them :) BI: Are people wise to be dumping money into digital currencies right now, or has that ship sailed? JA: I don't know if it's wise or not. Three types of people ask me about Bitcoin. Technology people who want to know if I think Bitcoin is technologically sound (it is) and unable to be hacked/stolen (it isn't, if you keep your own wallet key(s) secure). Libertarians who want to know if this is Gold 2.0 (it could be), And daytraders. Daytraders are the  only ones who should not be thinking of Bitcoin at all. It does make sense to look into digital currencies as a long-term replacement for "normal" currencies. But if you think there is only a one in 1,000 chance that Bitcoins can replace the US dollar, then only put that portion of your net worth into Bitcoins. Daytraders, however, have no way of valuing a Bitcoin or the direction of Bitcoin's price. It is pure gambling. It is volatile. It is stupid to trade Bitcoins. It is just as stupid to daytrade Bitcoins as it is to daytrade stocks or currencies, which are totally rigged systems whose day to day movements are beyond the capabilities or machinations of most daytraders sitting at home. (Here is why I am against daytrading in general.) BI: Will you declare Bitcoin income on your taxes? How the hell does that work? JA: Of course. With Bitcoin it is very easy to keep track of all the transactions. Every transaction is forever stored in your wallet.  Additionally, in my logs I am converting everything immediately (on paper) to dollars at the second of transaction, so I can see the profits. Assuming I make some money on people buying the book via Bitcoin, I can easily convert Bitcoin prices to dollars and declare any profits on my taxes. If you want to buy James's new book with Bitcoins, you can do so right here. You can also check out his other writing on his blog.
Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus just blasted a quick email out to clients regarding the latest reporting from star WSJ Fed reporter Jon Hilsenrath. As Lutz sees it, the big story that everyone is talking about (how the Fed is thinking about its QE exit strategy) is not a big deal and doesn't contain new information. There's also another story about how there's concern about asset bubbles forming. Lutz sees that story as interesting. The one that really matters is about Bernanke and succession, and the possibility that he will be replaced by Janet Yellen. Lutz writes: In my opinion - the Fri piece was nothing on tapering - no shock there, and well documented - if anything, the read last night on asset bubbles was interesting, in conjunction with Ben's speech Fri on them but smells like it targets bonds - not equities - but my vote for the most important goes to last night's mentioning one of the successors for Ben, is BEN - "The next chief of the Federal Reserve will decide when to reverse the easy-money policies of Ben Bernanke, a judgment that could strangle the economic recovery if made too early or trigger runaway inflation if made too late - At some point, the next Fed leader will need to use untested methods to reverse the process, raising interest rates and siphoning up huge volumes of cash from banks. "They will be learning as they go," said Laurence Meyer, a former Fed governor - The task could fall to Fed vice-chairwoman Janet Yellen, a meticulous and demanding Yale-trained economist, who issued prescient, early warnings about the housing bust - While Mr. Bernanke doesn't appear to want a third term as Fed chairman, the president could press him to stay. Mr. Bernanke said in March he had discussed his plans "a bit" with Mr. Obama but declined to say more." http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323551004578441331455504010.html?mod=WSJ_hpp_LEFTTopStories
Corporate profit margins are near their all-time highs. Stock market bears believe that margins will inevitably contract, crushing profits and ultimately bringing down stocks. However, UBS's Jonathan Golub is convinced any mean reversion in margins won't happen any time soon. "Our work shows that rising capacity utilization is positively correlated with higher operating margins," wrote Golub in a new note to clients.  "Based on historical patterns we believe each has further upside potential." UBS In the near-term, Golub thinks that companies will benefit more from cost cuts rather than sales leveraging up profits. Despite the historically tight relationship between operating margins and capacity utilization, we believe the recent margin pick-up has largely been driven by companies managing their costs rather than benefiting from operating leverage. As seen in the chart below, SG&amp;A as a percent of sales has continued to fall while interest and other cost line items have remained fairly constant. We don’t currently see any indication of a slowing of this trend. UBS
The latest Chinese data shows a disappointing start to the second quarter. First, a quick round-up of the latest data from China: Business Insider Over the weekend we saw industrial production rise 9.3% in April, below expectations but above March's numbers. Societe Generale's Wei Yao points out that this number isn't necessarily worth celebrating. "There was a clear base effect, as the headline growth dropped by 2.6ppt from March to April last year," explains Yao. "Excluding this factor, production barely improved." The only real jump was in automobile manufacturing which climbed 18.3% on the year, compared with 12.4% in March. Fixed asset investment (FAI) unexpectedly slowed in April, driven by a decline in manufacturing FAI. Investment in railways and housing however surged. This showed that property curbs haven't quite made an impact yet. The 12.8% rise in retail sales doesn't reflect a strong improvement in consumption. From Yao: "First, inflation helped. The real rate, according to the National Bureau of Statistics, moved up by just 0.1ppt to 11.8% yoy. Second, the best performing segment was jewelery sales, which had more to do with savings rather than consumption. Following a sharp decline in the gold price, Chinese households purchase of jewelery surged 72% yoy in April, substantially faster than the 17.7% yoy in Q1." China's M2 money supply growth ticked higher to 16.1% and credit conditions were "accommodative," according to Yao. But a closer look at the data showed that the crackdown on Wealth Management Products (WMPs) and caps on lending to local government financing vehicles (LGFVs). In a note out earlier this month, Yao wrote that all the measures taken together show that nonbank credit growth could be about mid-20% in 2013, from 36% in 2012. We've already reported on the unreliability of Chinese export data, the decline in manufacturing, and the rise in consumer prices. What does all this mean? In terms of growth, SocGen's Yao believes that the overall data is "far from encouraging". But going by recent property curbs and financial regulations, she argues that policymakers have switched gear and are now focused on "risk management". Bank of America's Ting Lu argues that with inflation not posing a great risk, policymakers can stay "accommodative" on the fiscal and monetary front. But he doesn't expect major new stimulus to bolster growth. In terms of credit, Yao seems more concerned about "the diverging trend between real activity growth and credit growth." To her this suggests that "a large portion of the new credit has gone to debt servicing or to sustaining inefficient projects." Lu also looks at this as "new leaders [that] are keen to put their house in order by preventing any small financial and debt incidents." But his takeaway is somewhat is different in that he doesn't think policymakers want to disrupt credit supply.: "Thats why recently they introduced a number of new rules to regulate wealth management products and arrested a few bond traders/managers to clean up the bond markets. However, we believe that these new policymakers will try to avoid disrupting credit supply during the house-cleaning." For now Yao is standing by her below consensus Q2 GDP forecast of 7.8%. Meanwhile, Lu sees more of a "downside risk" to his 8.1% Q2 GDP growth forecast.
Wikimedia CommonsBank of Israel Governor Stanley FischerThe Israeli shekel is tumbling against the U.S. dollar this morning after the Bank of Israel announced an unscheduled, inter-meeting interest rate cut to 1.5% from 1.75%. The dollar rose to as much as 3.6158 against the shekel after the announcement from levels around 3.5703 right before, but is now trading around 3.6027. The central bank was scheduled to make its next rate decision at its policy meeting in two weeks, on May 27, but the consensus expectation was that they would leave the key interest rate unchanged at 1.75%. The Bank of Israel specifically cited appreciation of the shekel as a result of "interest rate reductions by many central banks" as one of the reasons why it couldn't wait until two weeks from now to announce the cut. Last week, three central banks delivered surprise rate cuts to the market: last Monday, the Reserve Bank of Australia unexpectedly lowered its key interest rate to 2.75% from 3%. Then, on Wednesday, the National Bank of Poland unexpectedly cut its key interest rate to 3% from 3.25%, and on Thursday, the Bank of Korea unexpectedly cut its key interest rate to 2.5% fom 2.75%. The week before last, the ECB cut to 0.5% from 0.75%, and the Reserve Bank of India cut to 7.3% from 7.5%. Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer recently announced he would retire on June 30 from the top post at the central bank, a position he has held since May 2005. The release is included below. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- In light of the continued appreciation of the shekel, taking into account the start of natural gas production from the Tamar gas field, interest rate reductions by many central banks—notably the ECB, the quantitative easing in major economies worldwide and the downward revision in global growth forecasts, the Bank of Israel’s Monetary Committee reached two decisions outside the regularly scheduled framework. Against this background, the Bank of Israel’s Monetary Committee reached decisions outside the regularly scheduled framework. The decisions reached by the Monetary Committee are the following: The Bank of Israel notes that the inflation environment is below the midpoint of the target range and is expected to remain within the range in the coming year as well. Likewise, actions taken by the Banking Supervision Department in the past are moderating the impact of the monetary interest rate on the housing market. The decision regarding the interest rate for June 2013 will be published at 17:30 on Monday, May 27, 2013.
Michael Hoffman via flickr Minutes ago, we learned that U.S. retail sales unexpectedly climbed by 0.1%, despite the plunge in gas prices. Excluding autos and gas, sales climbed by 0.6%, beating expectations for a 0.3% gain. US futures are cutting some of their early losses. Dow futures were down around 40 points just before the release. Now they're down by around 15 points. Here's a look at the futures action via FinViz: FinViz
Please see my earlier post: Cars I – On Not Getting Fleeced A couple of points that may help you pay the right amount for your car.   Accessories On accessories, know that some car dealerships like to channel the Pentagon’s pricing scheme for paper clips, hammers, and toilets when it comes to car accessories.  Accessories are a major profit center for some car dealerships. “Those little floorboard carpets there?  Hoo-boy, those will probably run you an extra $1,200.”  “Oh, you actually want windshield wipers?  Well, that’s only available in the Deluxe model, which we sell for an addition $6,800 above the base model.  Not everybody requires windshield wipers, as you know.” Obviously the cure for this type of bullshit is the Interwebs, which – when consulted in advance – clear up exactly what is ‘Base Model’ and what is ‘Deluxe.’ The weird and amazingly annoying thing is how often – in the present day – power windows, air conditioning, and a car stereo qualify for extra costs above base model.  Any car company who still considers these ‘Deluxe’ accessories should be publically shamed.  That’s my new rule. Cash Back If you’re walking away from a car dealership with extra money ‘cash back’ following your car purchase, you’re doing it wrong.  Just trust me.  This is not a good deal for you. Zero money down, Zero % financing, Zero payments for 6 months Same idea here as cash back.  File this one under the category: There’s no free lunch.  So, you’re definitely overpaying for this thing you bought with zero, zero, zero conditions. And yeah, I’m talking about a company like Mitsubishi, which had the zero, zero, zero offer a few years ago.  Any business which offers you a costly consumer good like a car[2] on credit terms like this knows, in their heart of hearts, they are fleecing you on the price.  Anyone who bought a Mitsubishi under those terms offered a few years back probably overpaid by about 30% for that product.[3] Now, if you never intended to pay for the car and just wanted to take temporary advantage of an overly generous car offer, then you’re a clever cheater and Mitsubishi’s offer was just a nice way for you to cheat the system.  But if you’re a bona-fide car buyer who bought a Mitsubishi under those conditions: I’m sorry but you paid too much for the car. Please see my earlier post: Cars I – On Not Getting Fleeced [1] I’m not referring to collectibles, smart-ass.  I am aware of that exception to my rule, which is irrelevant to this rule about car-buying. [2] Or, even more typically, but on a smaller scale, home furniture. [3] Of course I’m making this 30% number up. But I do have experience with the time value of money. Zero, zero, zero deals depend on customers, who have no idea about the time value of money, not noticing that the only way this makes sense is if the selling company WAY overcharges for their product.
Sandy Huffaker/Getty ImagesThe week is starting off with a bang.  We just got the April reading of U.S. retail sales. The headline number unexpectedly climbed 0.1%.  Economists were looking for a 0.3% decline, largely due to falling gas prices. Excluding autos and gas, sales jumped by 0.6%, beating expectations for a modest 0.3% gain. From the Census: The U.S. Census Bureau announced today that advance estimates of U.S. retail and food services sales for April, adjusted for seasonal variation and holiday and trading-day differences, but not for price changes, were $419.0 billion, an increase of 0.1 percent (±0.3%)* from the previous month, and 3.7 percent (±0.7%) above April 2012. Total sales for the February through April 2013 period were up 3.7 percent (±0.5%) from the same period a year ago. The February to March 2013 percent change was revised from -0.4 percent (±0.5%)* to -0.5 percent (±0.2%). Retail trade sales were virtually unchanged (±0.5%)* from March 2013 and 3.6 percent (±0.7%) above last year. Nonstore retailers were up 15.4 percent (±2.0) from April 2012 and auto and other motor vehicle dealers were up 8.8 percent (±2.0) from last year. Here's a breakdown from the Census: US Census
WikipediaMay 11 (Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon said he may consider leaving the bank where he has held the top post since 2005, if shareholders vote to split his duties, the Wall Street Journal reported on Saturday. Shareholders will vote later this month at an annual meeting in Tampa, Florida, on a non-binding proposal to separate the chairman and chief executive roles after a more than $6 billion trading loss last year raised questions about risk oversight. At first, Dimon said he would not comment publicly on what he would do if the vote went against him, but when pressed he added that the worst-case scenario would be to leave the bank, the newspaper said, citing sources that attended a private meeting at the company's New York headquarters. Results of the vote will be announced on May 21, but it remains unclear what the board will do if the proposal passes. Among the investors who attended Monday's meeting, the Journal said, were top 10 shareholders Fidelity Investments and MFS Investment Management, as well as TIAA-CREF Asset Management and Goldman Sachs Asset Management. Proxy advisory firms Institutional Investors Services and Glass Lewis &amp; Co said that the losing "London Whale" derivatives trades that cost the bank $6.2 billion last year showed the board had failed in its oversight of JPMorgan executives. The firms also recommended that some board members not be re-elected. Two ranking JPMorgan Chase directors issued a letter to shareholders on Friday, arguing against recommendations. The letter, signed by presiding director Lee Raymond and corporate governance and nominating committee chairman William Weldon, said the advisory firms focused too narrowly on the trading losses and that the changes would be disruptive and not in shareholders' best interests. A similar proposal to split the roles garnered the approval of 40 percent of shareholders last year. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 

Wikimedia CommonsTAIPEI (Reuters) - Hon Hai Precision Industry Co Ltd, the world's largest electronics contract manufacturer, faces growing competition from cross-town rival Pegatron Corp, a company that is just a quarter of its size by revenue. Hon Hai, better known by its trading name Foxconn, draws an estimated 60 to 70 percent of its revenue from assembling gadgets and other work for Apple Inc. But it has been struggling to grow in a smartphone market increasingly dominated by Samsung Electronics Co Ltd. Fellow Taiwanese manufacturer Pegatron wants to grab more orders to assemble the fast-selling iPhone and iPad from the California-based tech giant. Analysts say Pegatron offers more competitive pricing - at the expense of lower margins - and appears to be succeeding in pulling in more orders from Apple. Pegatron's announcement last week that it would increase its number of workers in China by up to 40 percent in the second half of the year fuelled market speculation that it would be the sole assembler for a widely expected cheaper iPhone. "Pegatron posts a long-term risk to Hon Hai because as it catches up on margins by supplying more components, it can provide more aggressive pricing," Daiwa Capital analyst Birdy Lu said. "Hon Hai's margin uptrend is not a guarantee." Hon Hai is expected to post a net profit of T$18.76 billion ($638.24 million) in the first quarter, according to 13 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Results are due to be released early this week. This would be 26 percent higher than a net profit of T$14.92 billion in the same period a year earlier, before the company adopted a new accounting standard, but only around half of the record T$36.97 billion in the previous quarter. The company, which has come under fire for labor conditions in its factories supplying Apple, has raised wages and improved amenities. But rising labor costs erode margins, and it has been moving manufacturing to China's cheaper inland provinces. MARGINS NARROW Apple, along with its suppliers, relies heavily on new product launches to drive revenue growth. Apple's Chief Executive Tim Cook told analysts last month that "some really great stuff" would come in late 2013 and 2014, suggesting it would be a few more months before the company has any new products. Samsung, by contrast, recently launched its newest Galaxy S4 smartphone to strong demand. Samsung relies on its own in-house supplies for the majority of components in its smartphones. Apple posted its first quarterly profit decline in more than a decade in the March quarter, and forecast revenue of $33.5 billion to $35.5 billion this quarter, compared with $43.6 billion in the previous quarter. Despite rising profit, Hon Hai recorded a revenue slide of 19.2 percent in the January-March period. Pegatron's revenue grew 29 percent in the same period from a year ago, while its net profit surged 81 percent to T$2.31 billion ($78.59 million). Pegatron currently makes older models for Apple, including the iPhone 4S and iPhone 4, It also manufactures the iPad mini. "Hon Hai would see a flat revenue this year at best... while Pegatron has great growth potentials because it is going from nothing to something," said HSBC analyst Jenny Lai. "But Hon Hai's margins would improve, benefitting from getting more component orders. Foxconn Technology Group, Hon Hai's holding company, has been trying to turn itself into a high-margin purveyor of sophisticated components to escape from the ever decreasing margins in its traditional business. "I think it'd be a misconception to label Foxconn as just an assembly line manufacturer," group spokesman Louis Woo told Reuters late last year in an interview. "From glass to cable connectors, we're playing a critical part in components." In the fourth quarter, Hon Hai's operating margin climbed 3 basis points to 3.7 percent, compared with the previous three months, while Pegatron's operating margin improved by 2 basis points to 0.3 percent. In the March quarter, Pegatron's operating margin increased by 5 basis points to 0.8 percent. "Pegatron's margins are still a lot lower than Hon Hai's. This is because Pegatron's offering very competitive pricing and that's how it wins orders," said Lai. ($1 = 29.3935 Taiwan dollars) (Reporting by Clare Jim; Editing by Emily Kaiser) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Flickr / Andre HofmeisterLast week was unusually quiet for the economy, even as the stock market rallied to an all-time high. This week's schedule, however, is loaded with April and May economic data. By Friday, we should have a pretty good sense of whether or not the economy decelerated going into the second quarter. For the most part, economists are expecting a month-over-month slowdown. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Update The S&amp;P 500 started last week at 1,614, an all-time closing high at the time. And it ended the week at 1,633, the current all-time closing high. This is notable because at the beginning of the year, the most bullish strategist on Wall Street's sell-side had a 2013 year-end target of 1,615. So, that advice stunk. Even worse is Wall Street's current advice is internally conflicting. According to forecasts compiled by FactSet, strategists currently expect the S&amp;P 500 to head lower 1,579 in 12 months. Meanwhile, analysts expect stocks to go up to 1,724. Watch below Mark Newton, chief technical analyst and partner at Greywolf Execution Partners, discuss the upcoming data releases and what analysts will be looking at in this first round of reports for Q2.
(1) BOJ is going wild. On April 4, Japans central bank announced a plan to double the monetary base over two years from 138 trillion yen at the end of 2012 to 270 trillion yen at the end of 2014. (That would be $2.7 trillion at an exchange rate of 100 yen per dollar.) Reserve balances jumped 13.3 trillion yen during April. The yen has plunged from 79.39 on November 13, 2012 to 101.6 on Friday. The Nikkei is up 68.7% over this same period. (2) China loans are still going strong. On Saturday, Bloomberg reported: Chinas new local-currency loans exceeded estimates last month while money supply expanded at a faster pace, a sign policy makers are maintaining credit support for the economy after first-quarter growth unexpectedly slowed. Lending was 792.9 billion yuan ($129 billion), and M2 rose 16.1% y/y in April. Last Thursdays WSJ included an interesting article about Chinas slowing economy, noting: A sharp fall in factory prices--the 14th straight monthly decline--signals further trouble for a Chinese economy already facing mounting debt and slowing growth, as old-line industries struggle with growing overcapacity. Producer pricesdropped 2.4% in April, the sharpest decline since October, paced by particularly steep falls in the metals and chemicals sectors. That could add to concerns about China's slowdown in growthbecause falling producer prices make it tougher for makers of industrial goods and commodities to make profits, pay off their debts and pay their suppliers on time. Last week, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) said that it will use various tools to guide stable and reasonable growth in money supply and credit. The negative spillover effects from loose monetary policy in major economies are growing, which has helped pro-cyclical credit expansion at home, the PBOC said. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Managing Exuberance. (1) A leak at the Feds favorite leak outlet. (2) The Feds exit strategy. (3) How will they know the difference between rational and irrational exuberance? (4) What is prudent risk-taking? (5) The Feds Financial Stability Monitoring Program. (6) Big Ben is watching. (7) Competitive devaluation leads to competitive ultra-easing. (8) BOJ starts going wild in April. (9) Chinas loans and M2 growing fast as PPI drops fast. (10) Reaching for yield in Rwanda. (11) Another test for the bull. (12) Soaring industries. (13) The Great Gatsby (+). (More for subscribers.)
Numerous analysts - often the same ones that were bearish just six months ago - continue to talk up US equities using a variety of metrics. These include comparisons of dividend yields or PE ratios to treasuries, etc. One of the more unusual metrics is the so-called Rule of 20. Developed over 30 years ago by Jim Moltz, the rule states that for equities to be "fairly"valued, the average PE ratio plus the inflation rate has to be around 20. With the current PE ratios, the Rule of 20 metric now clocks at around 17 (PE=15, Inflation =2). That means to be valued "fairly" on a historical basis, US stocks' PE ratio should be around 18, allowing quite a bit of room for multiple expansion. That's assuming of course that inflation stays subdued. Also Mr. Moltz likely didn't contemplate deflation risk when designing this rule. Historically the Rule of 20 performed well in 2000 by pointing how overvalued the market was prior to the correction, and then again in 2007. ISI via Sober Look According to ISI, the current situation is more akin to 1983, when we were still living in the shadow of the "Death of Equities" and the Rule of 20 metric was at the lows. This "death" was proclaimed in 1979 on the cover of Business Week, which read "How inflation is destroying the stock market". Of course by 1983, after Volcker had raised the Fed Funds rate to 20% in 1981 (hard to believe, right?), inflation rate had receded. The "anti-equities" mentality however still persisted, creating an opportunity. Since then, the S&amp;P500 increased more than 10-fold (particularly if dividends are taken into account). The Rule of 20 therefore paints an incredibly bullish picture for the US stock market over the next couple of decades. Will Mr. Moltz be proven right again?
Reuters/Lucas JacksonGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Bloomberg TVLast week the  S&amp;P 500 hit the 1625 price target that Goldman strategist David Kostin had predicted for the end of 2013. That's how amazing this year has already been. So what's next? Even more gains, says Kostin. In this week's Weekly Kickstart note he writes: S&amp;P 500 rose 1% this week and now stands essentially at our year-end 2013 price target of 1625. The 14% rally in 2013 has been driven almost entirely by P/E multiple expansion. S&amp;P 500 now trades at 14.8x our forward 12-month earnings estimate up from 13.2x at the start of 2013. The market trades 14.4x consensus bottom-up EPS estimates. For context, the 35-year average forward P/E ratio equals 12.9x and the 10-year average equals 14.3x. The market has risen faster than we expected in 2013 but we still forecast considerable upside to the S&amp;P 500 during the next few years. Last month Goldman Sachs global equity strategists introduced 2014 and 2015 price targets for the world’s major equity markets. We forecast the S&amp;P 500 will rise to 1775 by year-end 2014 (+9% from today) and reach 1900 by the end of 2015 (+17%). Those prospective returns will be driven by earnings growth given we expect a stable P/E multiple of roughly 14.5x. And even if earnings don't grow much, there's still a way for stocks to power higher: Under the right circumstances, low real bond yields and improving US economic growth could also justify significantly higher valuations. Goldman Sachs Economics base case forecast remains that 10-year US Treasury yields rise to 2.5% at year-end 2013 and climb to 3.0% by end 2014 and 3.25% by end of 2015 from 1.8% today. However, if the bond market’s forecast for negative real 10-year yields through 2015 and our expectation that US real GDP growth exceeds 3% in both 2014 and 2015 prove accurate, then the P/E multiple could rise notably higher than our 14.5x forecast.
Nomura currency guru Jens Nordvig writes: The turn in JPY (yen) has been dramatic and has proven the importance of momentum when a multi-year cycle turns. A similar dynamic could be in store for the dollar. In the scheme of things, the USD REER (Real Effective Exchange Rates) is still trading close to multi-decade lows. Once the turn is evident, we believe momentum could be powerful. On this basis, we think it is now time to put on some structural positions, looking for meaningful USD gains by year-end. We structure these positions to be resilient to near-term two-way risk. We would also look to add spot exposure should we better entry points be reached over the next one to two months. Nordvig's commentary is consistent with market action and other commentary in recent months making the base for dollar bullishness, and the return of king dollar. Factors that are causing people to get bullish: The dollar has had a great run this year, but as you can see on this chart of the Trade-Weighted Dollar Index going back several decades, the dollar's been in a pretty huge bear market which has a lot of room to turn. FRED
Walmart Corporate on FlickrAfter a week with virtually no economic data, this week starts with a bang. At 8:30 AM ET, we get April retail sales. SocGen has a preview: US RETAIL SALES TO SHINE A LIGHT ON Q2 GDP The Census Bureau’s advance report on April retail sales will provide an important first piece of the US Q2 growth puzzle. In contrast to the improvement in labour market conditions witnessed in April, headline purchases probably slumped further, contracting by another 0.6% after the 0.4% decline posted in March. Despite the projected disappointing April results, solid momentum heading out of the winter quarter implies that our current Q2 real PCE forecast remains on track. MARKET ISSUES: The markets worry that the sequester might be damaging growth and weak sales readings might add further fuel to those concerns. This will be a key number. A strong reading would start to erase a lot of the lingering doubts that had flared up last month, but which have gone a bit to the back burner thanks to the equity rally.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson Here's an idea for stimulating the economy: Free money for everyone, all the time, with no exceptions or conditions. Really! Writing in Wonkblog over the weekend, Mike Konczal explains the economics of a Universal Basic Income (UBI). The idea is, every person gets a check from the government every year. If you're not working, you get a check. If you're working, you get a check. This annual check would ensure some semblance of purchasing power for the populace. And by giving it to everyone, you ensure there's no penalty for going to work. You don't lose the check from working. For the left, the idea of giving everyone a check has an obvious egalitarian appeal. But there are reasons the right should like it as well. Konczal writes: Meanwhile, a few conservatives have advocated a form of basic income for a different set of reasons. The right likes basic income because it would allow for the removal of many overlapping and piecemeal government programs, such as food stamps and unemployment insurance, as well as programs the government directly runs. Charles Murray has advocated a universal basic income of $10,000 for every person, and paying for it by ending Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, virtually all transfer programs and certain tax breaks. Also, if you squint really hard, you could see a libertarian argument that a basic income compensates for the private appropriation of common, natural resources. According to Wonkblog's Dylan Matthews, Milton Friedman also endorsed something similar once in the form of a negative income tax. In other words, if you hate the idea of "big government" but recognize that the government has some role to play in provisioning some distribution of wealth and services, then writing a check directly to an individual every month is ideal, since it involves very little bureaucracy, oversight, or government meddling in the lives of the check recipient. Obviously the technical details and amounts are not settled. But as a way to give everyone purchasing power in a manner that's consistent with "small government," a Universal Basic Income holds a lot of appeal. Amusingly, this topic is getting some attention in more mainstream political circles. Conservative sites and blogs are bashing MSNBC host Chris Hayes for holding up a sign in a segment on ending poverty which reads: Giving people money. Its actually that easy. You can watch the clip that has them all flipped out here. 
REUTERS/Bobby Yip A fresh batch of Chinese economic data came out last night, and it was mostly nothing to write home about. Via SocGen, the big numbers were: Within retail sales, there was one blistering number. ...the best performing segment was jewellery sales, which had more to do with savings rather than consumption. Following a sharp decline in the gold price, Chinese households’ purchase of jewellery surged 72% yoy in April, substantially faster than the 17.7% yoy in Q1. This gold rush contributed nearly 2ppt to the headline in April, up from about 1ppt in March. As SocGen's own Kit Juckes notes in an email: "(apparently, buying jewellery is a sign of saving, not consumption)."
Bloomberg Editor-In-Chief Matthew Winkler has a column up today at Bloomberg.com addressing the burgeoning "spying" scandal, in which it's been revealed that some Bloomberg reporters used information gleaned from the Bloomberg Terminal (regarding client login times and help-desk chats) to aid in their reporting. In his column, Winkler apologizes for the behavior, but he also gives some background on why Bloomberg reporters had this data in the first place: Now lets also be clear what our reporters had access to. First, they could see a users login history and when a login was created. Second, they could see high-level types of user functions on an aggregated basis, with no ability to look into specific security information. This is akin to being able to see how many times someone used Microsoft Word vs. Excel. And, finally, they could see information about help desk inquiries. Why did reporters have access to this in the first place? The recent complaints go to practices that are almost as old as Bloomberg News. Since the 1990s, some reporters have used the terminal to obtain, as the Washington Post reported, mundane facts such as log-on information. There was good reason for this, as our reporters used to go to clients in the early days of the company and ask them what topics they wanted to see covered. Understanding how clients used the terminal was more important then. We still do that today, which is why we have feedback tabs on our news-related terminal functions. Equally important is our commitment to transparency, which is why The Bloomberg Way is a public document. Read the full letter here &gt;
Wikipedia CommonsIt's nothing too dramatic, but the start of the week brings sinking markets. US futures are off on the tune of 0.5%. European markets are roughly in the same ballpark. The big story that everyone is talking about is the article by Jon Hilsenrath in the Wall Street Journal about the Fed possibly beginning the first steps to unwind QE. We laid out much of the debate surrounding the article here. There's a widely held belief (which is likely mistaken) that the Fed is largely responsible for the equity rally and that any sign of a real winddown in the extraordinary measures that have characterized monetary policy since early 2009 will be horrible. That may be in error, but you can't be surprised to see a little knee-jerk selling anytime something like this comes up.
