The month of January has been pretty interesting for market observers. While it's been a slow grind higher on the S&amp;P 500, nearly every day inching closer to all-time highs, flows into equity funds have been incredible ‚Äì even historic. In the first week of January, investors poured $26.6 billion into stocks. In the second week, $21.9 billion. In the third, $16.6 billion. The sharp reversal ‚Äì which appears to indicate that the retail investor is returning to the equity markets ‚Äì has strategists across Wall Street buzzing about the "Great Rotation," a big reversal of flows from bond funds into equity funds as the tide finally turns in financial markets and the "New Normal" era of subpar growth and low interest rates draws to a close. Sure enough, Treasury yields have been rising this month. On Monday, the 10-year yield crossed 2 percent for the first time since April. The bond market is on edge. Recent price action supports the "Great Rotation" story. However, the uptick in yields hasn't yet been enough to cause the redemptions from bond funds that would characterize a "Great Rotation." Even while money pours into equity funds in January, it's still pouring into bond funds, too. In the first week of the month, bond funds raked in $9.4 billion of new assets under management. In the second week, $10.6 billion. In the third, $8.0 billion. Citi analyst William Katz covers brokers and asset managers ‚Äì the types of companies whose funds play a key role in the "Great Rotation" story. Katz thinks the big equity flows everyone is excited about are just seasonal. He says January is always a strong month: ICI, FactSet, Citi Research ICI, FactSet, Citi Research Three of the major players in fund management ‚Äì T. Rowe Price, Waddell &amp; Reed, and Affiliated Managers Group ‚Äì all reported earnings yesterday. In a separate note, Katz detailed what he heard from their earnings releases regarding the "Great Rotation." Katz's conclusion, based on their comments: the "it" moment has not yet arrived. Katz warns clients in his note today, "While we are careful to not derive too much from any one data point, the weekly data is much more suggestive of a seasonal pattern for volumes and not indicative of a structural shift from fixed income to equities, in our view. If the data are merely another seasonal head fake, then we suspect a correction could be looming." SEE ALSO:¬†Deutsche Bank Explores The Tricky Situation Of A Federal Reserve Technical Insolvency &gt;
Twitter.com/morningmoneybenSome financial media news. We've learned that POLITICO has locked down its star Wall Street reporter Ben White to a new 2-year contract. White is the author of the widely read Morning Money newsletter, which blends Wall Street, market, and regulatory news, and which is read in both New York and DC circles. When reached, White declined to comment on specifics, but said: "I've got a great platform at POLITICO and I'm looking forward to cranking Morning Money up to an even higher level." White's deal is notable for two reasons. 1. We've heard that POLITICO is making a strong push to lock down talent in the wake of the departure of political reporter Ben Smith (who took over Buzzfeed) and all of the sturm and drang with his getting out of his Politco role. So locking down White, who has a unique role at the outlet, is important. 2. Strong Wall Street reporters who get the internet are notoriously hard to find right now, and now White (who we're told had discussions with other outlets) is now off the market.
After a rocky 2012, the Shanghai Composite (China's main stock market index) has been making a big move up. In fact, it's moving up so quickly that the 50-day moving average is about to be higher than the 200-day moving average, a phenomenon referred to by technical analysts as the "golden cross." This is a bullish sign for traders who believe in momentum in the markets. The folks at Bespoke Investment Group wrote about this earlier today.† Here's their chart: Bespoke Investment Group
In my time I‚Äôve watched a bunch of countries go south. In the 80‚Äôs it was all of South America. Poland, Yugoslavia and South Africa also hit the skids during those years.  There was an observable pattern as events unfolded. The early stages of a crisis were always marked with capital outflow by the financial elite in the country.¬† The wealthy families bought real estate properties outside of the country; they increased their ownership of foreign (mostly US) financial assets. They used whatever local currency they had (or could borrow) to buy hard assets in the country. In this case, hard assets meant¬† companies (or farms) that produced stuff that could be exported, and thus be a source of hard currency earnings. Two minor examples: - In Ecuador there was an explosion of shrimp farming. The expenses of production were all in Sucres (the local currency). The shrimp were sent to the US and sold for dollars. (This was a great business ‚Äì ecological disaster however.) ¬†In South Africa, it got so bad that people ended up buying luxury boats with their SA Rands, and just sailing away. A lot of the boats ended in the Caribbean. Many were sold for cash dollars. I bring this old stuff up because I see definitive evidence (on a daily basis), that this is happening in China today. You name the City outside of China; I‚Äôll show you the real estate transactions where it is Chinese money that is doing the buying.  Another observable phenomenon back then was in the local stock markets. When the local currency was rapidly devaluing, the only safe-haven trade was to move money into stocks. The stocks in favor during these times of crisis were the shares of companies that were exporters (source of hard currency). In Brazil it was the steel companies, in Argentina/Chile it was the food exporters, in Mexico the money went to the oil exporters. We are witnessing precisely the same thing happening today in Japan. Japanese stocks are going up lock step with the falling Yen. So far, Japanese stocks have outperformed the currency devaluation. That is true for the citizens of Japan. It has is also been true for most¬† foreign investors. ¬†  ¬†  ¬† China, today, is much different than Argentina was in the 80‚Äôs. But the level of capital flight by the wealthy from China should not go unnoticed. There is a big red flag being waved. Japan is certainly no Mexico, who devalued its currency again and again. But the stock markets of the two countries, then and now, are also raising those Red Flags. I‚Äôm always wary of looking at the past and using history as a guide for what will happen in the future. To the extent that the past is a guide, then we may be in for a rough spell, one that is not ‚Äúhomegrown‚Äù. By my read of history, the ‚Äútipping point‚Äù occurs at about the time when the local stock market returns fall below the currency depreciation. When that balance is broken, chaos usually follows. In the case of Japan, this could come as a result of a sudden down correction in the Nikkei, coupled with another big move down in the Yen versus the Euro and the dollar. As far as China is concerned, I think the cracks are already there. The growth in domestic debt is fueling the capital outflow. The ‚Äúoff balance sheet‚Äù financing for the capital outflow is coming from the sale of Wealth Management Products. This powder keg now totals $2 Trillion, and it‚Äôs growing fast. I think these investments are not unlike a ponzi scheme.
For all of the talk about underemployed law grads drowning in debt, some law students are sitting pretty. "There's a†class†divide opening between law schools," one Yale law student tells us.†"Anybody who wants a generic, well-paying job from Yale will get one." See, there's a certain number of high-paying law jobs every year, even in a recession, and a certain number of those jobs will always go to Yale and a few other schools. "Honestly I think a lot of it is just Cover Your Ass," says the Yale student. "You hire a Yale guy, it's not that he's necessarily better, but if he screws up, then you're covered." Students from other top law schools like Yale are prestigious too.†Firms love to be able to tell clients they've got a Yale grad on the case. A look at the numbers confirms this trend. Eighty-eight percent of Yale's 2011 class had full-time jobs requiring a law degree nine months after graduating, according to the†American Bar Association. Other members of Yale's 2011 are employed in jobs where a law degree provides an advantage or pursuing another graduate degree, with less than one percent unemployed or unknown. Pretty darn good. It would be "laughable"††to suggest that YLS students receive an unfair return on their investment, said†Executive Director of the National Association for Law Placement James Leipold a couple of years ago to Yale Daily News. ìProbably even those in the bottom quarter of [Yaleís] graduating class will have many opportunities open to them that are foreclosed to students of less select law schools,î he said. ìOf course at any school, no matter how good the preparation, there are students who will struggle [to find jobs], but that is not enough to suggest that an institution or a system of education is flawed.î Other top tier schools are doing fine too, with Chicago, Harvard, NYU, Stanford and Columbia actually achieving higher employment rates for the class of 2011 (though Yale remains the top ranked school according to US News). So even as†LSAT applications plunge, remember that law school is still a fine choice for top students. At lesser schools, however, the crisis is very much real. Nine months after graduation, the average†law school class of 2011 had only 55 percent full-time, long-term jobs requiring a law degree. And perhaps 45 percent who regret spending hundreds of thousands of dollars and three years in law school. Of course, unemployment isn't the only problem these days. There's also record high student loan debt. That's why some graduates of elite law schools tell us they wish they took a larger scholarship to attend a lesser school. DON'T MISS: 'Law School Was The Biggest Mistake Of My Life' &gt;

It beat Wall Street analysts' revenue and profit expectations. Revenue growth continued to accelerate ‚Äì¬†¬†grew 40% y/y, up from 32.80% y/y growth last quarter.¬† Operating margins improved, as well. Despite the good news, the stock dropped 10% as soon as the numbers came out.  Since then, it's climbed back some. At 5PM eastern, Facebook hosted an earnings call to discuss the numbers. We took notes below. THE NUMBERS: **EPS: $0.17 versus $0.15 consensus **Revenues: $1.59 billion versus $1.53 billion consensus **618 million daily active users. **Mobile daily active users exceeded desktop daily active users for the first time last quarter. SEE ALL THE NUMBERS AND CHARTS HERE &gt;&gt; He says there is a big opportunity to make ads better through 1)&nbsp;targeting and relevance 2)&nbsp;better ad products that aren't just about links and images. He says Facebook ads will have more kinds of media. Sounds like video. He says Gifts and Graph Search won't impact revenues for the next year. 23% of ad revenue came from mobile, up from 14% in Q3. Focus in Q4 was to scale products launched in 2012.  Proving that value. Taking advantage of mobile. Zuckerberg talks about ad quality. He says Facebook improved its News Feed algorithm and that likes and comments increased by 50%. Meanwhile, ads brought likes and comments down by 2%. So net, engagement is up, even w/ ads. Zuckerberg says we're early in social ads. We expected to not be able to show everyone an ad every day. We've been surprised that the quality has been naturally high and that there has been no engagement hit (that's meaningful). Previously thought we would have to tune quality level. Didn't have to. Now we can work on targeting.&nbsp; Zuckerberg answer on video ads. As soon as News Feed is richer with videos from users, then it will be "richer" with video ads. Facebook doesn't have to host the video, it can be a distribution platform.&nbsp; Conversion measurements only launched in mid-December. Could do a lot more, she says. She says it'll be exciting to do it on mobile. We can now measure all the way from seeing an ad on a mobile device to purchasing the product in a store.&nbsp; Sandberg talks about the opportunities. Mobile gets 1% of ad revenue and 10% of time consumed. Other low-hanging fruit: Ramp with large advertisers, help them measure, help them use custom targeting instead of broad ad buys. Zuckerberg says there are three mobile platforms worth talking about.&nbsp; Mobile web, where you can't go very deep, but Facebook goes as deep as anybody. Android, is an open and dynamic platform. Even though our relationship with Google isn't one where the companies talk, we are able to do some cool experiences. For example, we can do an SMS app on Android. On iOS, the way you can do deeper integrations is working with Apple. They've been a great partner. You can share photos and share web pages. There's no meaningful numbers. It's a good experience.
The model has many changes compared to previous models, and added a ton of new features. But not all the changes have received rave reviews. In fact, one feature this new phone lacks has Wall Streeters, who use the phones for work, seriously ticked off. BrickBreaker -- the new millennium's version of pong -- is not included on the new phone, the New York Times reports. BlackBerry spokesman Nick Manning told the NYT the firm is 'open sourcing' the game, which will allow third-party developers to make their own version of the game. Apparently, this move was made in order to encourage third-party development of apps, rather than make them in-house. Though mobile gaming technology has significantly progressed since BrickBreaker was first developed in 2002, the game is a testament to the expression that old habits die hard. BrickBreaker enthusiasts are intensely loyal, it seems. Jeffries CEO Richard Handler has been "known to play the game in elevators and between meetings" while former Lehman Brothers CEO Richard Fuld had the IT department remove the game from his phone to get him to stop playing it.
With 2012 receding in the rear-view mirror, what are the major trends shaping the mobile narrative†this†year? We at BI Intelligence looked over the year-end data to highlight the trends we think will underpin the mobile industry in 2013. We've posted the deck below. We hope you enjoy it. BI†Intelligence†is a new research and analysis service focused on mobile computing and the Internet. Subscribers can download the entire deck as a†PDF†or PowerPoint, as well as any of the individual charts from the presentation. Please†sign up for a free trial here.
As 2013 began, financial market participants were showered with a new batch of predictions and outlooks for the New Year. A common prognostication (again) was the forecast of an end to low interest rates and the bursting of a bond market bubble that many continue to say is imminent. Even though a sell-off in bonds has yet to occur, those predicting it have not been deterred. This year‚Äôs crop of predictors seemed even more adamant in calling a reversal in yields despite the Federal Reserve‚Äôs ZIRP (Zero Interest Rate Policy). And the sole follow-up question for prognosticators usually involves bonds correlation with equities. Yet, here again, we are assured that their calls for a bursting of the bond market bubble (and higher interest rates) means good times for the stock market, as investors would simply move assets from bonds to stocks. However, when a 32 year bull market in bonds eventually ends, its demise will likely not be as tidy as advertised. Especially if the bond market bubble has more gas in the tank. Either way, here are some question you may want to consider if you are expecting its demise: Given that we are sitting at such ultra-low interest rates makes for easy predictions of an imminent move higher (and end to the bond market bubble). Difficult questions of what economic shocks might hit our system if this were to occur may not be as simple as they seem. Perhaps the most important question is not when interest rates rise, but whether interest rates can rise? Heart Capital does not offer investment advice via this medium. Under no circumstance whatsoever do these postings, opinions, charts, or any other information represent a recommendation or personalized investment, tax, or financial planning advice.
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR GlobalThree big asset managers reported earnings yesterday: T. Rowe Price, Waddell &amp; Reed, and Affiliated Managers Group. These are the companies that run the big equity funds we hear about in the context of the "Great Rotation" story. The idea is that investors, who have poured hundreds of billions of dollars into bond funds in recent years, will start pulling money out of those funds and "rotating" it into equity funds run by these big asset managers. Given the big inflows we've seen into equity funds in January, Citi analyst William Katz was paying attention to these earnings reports for any hints as to whether the "Great Rotation" was really materializing or not. (BofA Merrill Lynch says the "Great Rotation" is already here, while Citi says it's probably at least a year away.) Below is what Katz observed from the three earnings releases and associated conference calls: TROW does not host a call, while WDR and AMG hosted back to back calls on 1/29, and we note the following around flow dynamics: 1. Volumes are generally improving into January ñ Here, TROW characterized gross sales as ìdecentî; WDR is seeing strong(er) growth in January than elevated attrition in December; while AMG pointed to strong request for proposal (RFP) activities. Such disclosure seems consistent with better activity levels in both asset managers and broker-dealers from those reporting earlier in the month, including BLK, SCHW, AMTD, FII and JNS. 2. Volumes are diversified, and not coming from Fixed Income ñ Indeed, TROW noted a broad based pick up; WDR indicated Asset Strategy, Fixed Income and Equities all trending better; while AMG noted some stepped up retail focus on ìreturnî oriented volumes. We believe such commentary is a bit better than what BLK and FII indicated over the last two weeks, and seemingly consistent with industry trends. Importantly, such unit growth is additive to overall flows rather than substitution for fixed income. 3. But, none of the management teams would stick out their necks and call the ìitî moment, in which flows inflect. In fact, there may not be such a moment but rather a continued build. For our part, we believe the next few weeks will be key in particular around: a) absolute level of unit growth; and, b) underlying mix. Further Equities weakness may not be well tolerated for these stocks while acceleration in volumes could help support recent multiple expansion. So, no major signs of a "Great Rotation" yet, according to the big asset managers. Katz sums it all up, writing, "To date, we sense the discussion points to a gradual upturn in activity, but perhaps not yet at the break out levels creeping into our coverage universe valuations generally."
We've mentioned a few times today that GDP went negative primarily because of the big drop in defense spending. But we didn't realize just how historic the drop was. JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli put it in context. The defense spending drop happened at the fastest pace in 40 years. As you can see in the chart below, the last time we had a faster drop was in 1972. Below is Feroli's take: Real GDP contracted at a 0.1% annual rate last quarter -- a disconcerting headline number which masked better underlying performance of the economy. The weakness in Q4 output was primarily driven by two factors: a 22% annualized drop in defense spending -- the most in forty years -- and a pullback in the pace of inventory accumulation, in part due to lingering effects of the drought. Absent these two factors the rest of the economy expanded at a relatively decent 2.5% pace last quarter. Foreign trade subtracted another 0.3%-point from growth in Q4. The two main components of private domestic demand, consumption and business fixed investment, actually accelerated last quarter, as consumers increased real outlays at a 2.2% rate and capital spending rebounded to an 8.4% growth pace. Odd as it may sound, today's number actually leaves the economy relatively well-positioned heading into the first quarter; the slowing in the pace of inventory accumulation (real inventories were only built up at a $20.0 billion rate in Q4) means that businesses will not have to pull back on production as much in Q1 if consumer spending does downshift in response to the recent tax increases. We continue to look for growth this quarter of around 1.0%, with modest upside risk due to the lean inventory situation and the decent momentum in private final demand. Here's the chart: Bloomberg, Business Insider Click here for all of the details of today's GDP release &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets sold off a bit today. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,910, -44.0, -0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,501, -5.8, -0.3 percentNASDAQ: 3,142, -11.3, -0.3 percent And now the top stories:
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderThe internet has caused massive disruption across the media landscape, causing a surge in job insecurity at traditional establishments. But now we have a good look at the numbers. The Bureau of Labor Statistics has put together a presentation on the recent history and direction of media jobs. It's not pretty. Across several different industries (radio, TV, newspapers, film, etc.) there's been a steady downward march in employment.
Google FinanceThe legs have come out of the markets and stocks are selling off. Earlier this morning, we learned GDP unexpectedly fell by 0.1 percent in Q4.¬† This was much worse than the 1.1 percent gain expected. This was largely due to the drop in inventory. And personal consumption climbed by more than expected. It's worth noting that stocks are still close to their post-crisis highs.
Denise Shull is President of The ReThink Group, a consultancy providing advanced market, risk and behavioral intelligence. She¬†holds a Master‚Äôs degree in Neuropsychology from The¬†University of Chicago.Traders say "the market takes the stairs up and the elevator down." CFAs say "show me the¬†fundamentals." And Carl Icahn just says (well yells actually) "everyone else is wrong." The truth is when the market, or even a given stock, is very near to its all-time highs, psychology¬†plays an even bigger role than normal. The traditional analysts look for financial projections that indicate¬†why equities should be trading for more, the economists look to things like the overall rate of growth of¬†the economy and the technical analysts look at the old highs as impenetrable walls of resistance. Research however shows that those who think of the market like a poker game ‚Äì you are really¬†betting against other player‚Äôs perceptions or intended perceptions ‚Äì are better at predicting price action.¬†Therefore, no matter how much you think the latest GDP numbers mean we can‚Äôt make it to new highs,¬†think again. Ask yourself ‚Äì at these levels, who is in financial pain? Is it the guys who have been betting long¬†or those who are short? As always, the ‚Äòwho is in more pain?‚Äô question give huge insight into where the¬†prices are likely to go. Near new highs ‚Äì or worse, AT new highs, means that everyone who is long is sitting pretty.¬†They feel no pain. Particularly once an index or a stock makes it over and old high, it is smooth sailing¬†with NO storm on the horizon. This means that the only force working against higher prices is those who¬†believe that the underlying fundamentals don‚Äôt support the highs. Unfortunately, as history shows, those beliefs are no match for the short squeeze overtaking those¬†who thought that between the government, hurricanes, Europe, currency devaluations and a myriad of¬†other depressing economic thoughts, there would be no way anyone would seriously invest in this market. Near or above new highs you have three psychological forces ‚Äì all arguing for higher prices. This doesn‚Äôt leave much firepower behind the sellers. In other words, at new highs, rationales other than what is the other guy thinking, have very¬†little market moving power. Those who expect prices to make sense outside of the psychological¬†backdrop frequently find themselves disappointed. In short, remember, the cards alone NEVER win the poker game!
In its March edition, Bloomberg Markets Magazine ranks the top 25 frontier markets for investors. Frontier markets could also be termed 'pre-emerging' markets. These countries are distinguished by capital markets that are underdeveloped compared to emerging markets. The scoring system the magazine used indicates that, by and large, these frontier markets are more desirable investment destinations than their emerging market counterparts. Bloomberg Markets used a variety of criteria to rank these countries, from government debt to labor force participation ratios. We present their list of the most attractive frontier markets for investors. Along with each country's total score, we've included GDP growth, average annual inflation, and government debt-to-GDP ratio projections from 2013 to 2017, as well as a ranking of how easy it is to conduct business in the nation. The list is dominated by African and Asian nations, though a few European and South American countries also made the cut.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Gary Shilling Sees An Unsafe Buildup Of Risks (Bloomberg View) In a low interest rate environment, Gary Shilling says he sees a build up of risk and leverage as investors seek yield. "I see lots of potentially unsafe buildups. Consider the rush into junk bonds, depressing their yields and spreads versus Treasuries. So much money has poured into below-investment grade debt that it now takes real skill to default. So great is the investor appetite for yield that 46 percent of junk bonds are selling at or above the prices at which they can be called by the issuer. However, a global recession will hype defaults even though many low-rated companies have a cushion of safety from prefunded debt."¬† "...In another questionable maneuver to satisfy the zeal for yield, some managers of mutual bond funds are investing in riskier assets; they then compare their results with their benchmarks, which are composed of safer bonds. This can be dangerous. In 2008, about 40 funds that had big holdings of mortgage-backed securities and derivatives outside their benchmarks lost 10 percent or more, according to Morningstar Inc."There has also been a rush into emerging-market bonds and stocks, even though almost all of those economies are driven by exports, the vast majority of which are bought by Europe, now clearly in a recession, and the U.S., which may be soon. Just look at sliding Chinese export growth." Strategies For Bond Investors In 2013 (iShares Blog) In a low interest rate environment in the U.S., and slow global economic growth, BlackRock's Matt Tucker has three bond strategies for 2013. 1) Focus on municipals and credit - There will likely be sustained interest in riskier fixed income sectors like investment grade credit bonds and muni bonds are competitive 2) "Look outside the U.S." 3) "Rethink the role of Treasuries" - Some investors worry about higher yields on Treasury prices but as bond investors rotate into riskier sectors "even a small amount of Treasuries can anchor a portfolio risk". Advisors Are Modifying Traditional Risk Metrics (The Wall Street Journal) Financial advisors are moving beyond "risk-adjusted returns" are factoring in emotions in constructing long-term portfolios. "At the center of this debate is how to measure risk. Some see it as comparing numerical modeling that tries to match past return patterns to volatility metrics such as Sharpe ratios and standard deviation figures. The idea is that such a process can quantify an investor's chances of running into unforeseen market bumps as a portfolio becomes more aggressive in nature."Advisers are trying to devise ways to balance out what traditional risk metrics suggest and what clients are comfortable with. The Fed's Loose Monetary Policy Is Hurting The Economy (JP Morgan Funds) JP Morgan Funds' Dr. David Kelly and David M. Lebovitz believe that the Fed's loose monetary policy is doing more harm than good to the economy. ""Easy money has now gone well beyond the point of being ineffective in stimulating the economy and is now, in fact, a significant drag on U.S. economic growth." JP Morgan Funds/Morningstar  Aswath Damodaran Has 5 Lessons For Value Investors Through The Prism Of Apple Investors (Musings On Markets)  In a new blog post, NYU finance professor Aswath Damodaran writes that there is now a 90 percent chance that Apple is undervalued. He offers five cautionary notes to value investors that are sticking with Apple, but pointers that apply to value investors in general. First, he says "Don't bet the house" - you have to not just be right about the value but also about the market sharing your view. Second, "Don't double down" - take a stand against the market but don't make this about ego. Third, "Think of buying the business not the cost" - Forget what analysts and portfolio managers are doing, watch the fundamentals. Fourth, "Do not track the day to day stories". Fifth, "Be willing to wait". How Closely Is Emerging Market Debt Linked To Its Country's Credit? (Barron's) Corporate bonds are closely tied to the credit of their home country. But emerging market corporate bonds are much more closely tied to their country's credit.¬† A new report from the National Bureau of Economic Research finds that, "an increase of 1 percentage point in the sovereign credit-default swap caused a 0.71 percentage-point increase in the CDS spread of corporations headquartered in that country. The relationship was stronger for state owned companies, but weaker in nations with strong property rights." There is for instance a 69 percent correlation in Malaysia, 49 percent in Mexico, and 40 percent in Russia. While in the U.S., Japan, Germany it is below 10 percent.
YouTube via ACCTvideoThe Washington Post reports that Penny Pritzker, the 255th wealthiest American, is in the running to be President Barack Obama's next Commerce Secretary ‚Äî and may have already topped the list. Pritzker, the CEO of PSP Capital Partners and Pritzker Realty Group,¬†is estimated to have a net worth in excess of $1.8 billion, accumulated in part through her inheritance. To many, this pick may reek of patronage ‚Äì Pritzker was national co-chair of Obama for America 2012 and bundled at least $500,000 for the President‚Äôs re-election campaign. CNN notes that Pritzker was also a leading candidate for the position back in 2008, but took herself out of the running because of fears she wouldn‚Äôt be confirmed due to her past business dealings. Superior Bank, in which her uncle held a majority stake and she served as chairman until 1994, failed in 2001 after the bank‚Äôs holdings of subprime mortgages exploded. The bank was ultimately taken over by the FDIC. Pritzker would replace acting Secretary Rebecca Blank, who stepped in to fill the position after John Bryson resigned from the post following a series of hit-and-runs. This Pritzker pick would continue the tradition of high-powered business executives, such as Bill Daley and Peter Peterson, stepping into this role.
Flickr / USACEpublicaffairsThe Fed's take on today's GDP report (we think) is contained right here in the first sentence of its announcement just now. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in December suggests that growth in economic activity paused in recent months, in large part because of weather-related disruptions and other transitory factors. So the Fed doesn't see the weakness as being fundamentals-related: Just weather and other temporary stuff. Good to know. For more on the report, see here &gt;
From Josh Brown, aka The Reformed Broker, a heart-wrenching video featuring a Wall Streeter down on his luck and forced to pan handle in the NYC Subway. People beg because they have needs. At 1:15 we find out what a desperate banker needs from his fellow MTA patrons. He enters the subway car saying: Alright d--- heads listen up! My taxes are through the roof, I didn't get my bonus this year, I can't even pay off my Ferrari. Somebody's paying the piper. It's payback time I pay taxes for you. Watch below (FYI this is just a skit, people): 
Wikimedia CommonsThe statement from the FOMC's January policy meeting is out. It contains no new clues about when the Fed might slow or end quantitative easing. The statement does say that global market strains eased, but growth in economic activity paused due to weather and other transitory factors in recent months. Here is the passage addressing quantitative easing: If the outlook for the labor market does not¬†improve substantially, the Committee will continue its¬†purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed¬†securities, and employ its other policy tools as¬†appropriate, until such improvement is achieved in a¬†context of price stability. In determining the size, pace,¬†and composition of its asset purchases, the Committee will,¬†as always, take appropriate account of the likely efficacy¬†and costs of such purchases. Below is the full release: Information received since the Federal Open Market¬†Committee met in December suggests that growth in economic¬†activity paused in recent months, in large part because of¬†weather-related disruptions and other transitory factors. Employment has continued to expand at a moderate pace but¬†the unemployment rate remains elevated. Household spending¬†and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing¬†sector has shown further improvement. Inflation has been¬†running somewhat below the Committee‚Äôs longer-run¬†objective, apart from temporary variations that largely¬†reflect fluctuations in energy prices. Longer-term¬†inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee¬†seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The¬†Committee expects that, with appropriate policy¬†accommodation, economic growth will proceed at a moderate¬†pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline¬†toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual¬†mandate. Although strains in global financial markets have¬†eased somewhat, the Committee continues to see downside¬†risks to the economic outlook. The Committee also¬†anticipates that inflation over the medium term likely will¬†run at or below its 2 percent objective. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help¬†ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most¬†consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee will¬†continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed¬†securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per¬†month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of¬†reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency¬†debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency¬†mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing¬†Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these¬†actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term¬†interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make¬†broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee will closely monitor incoming¬†information on economic and financial developments in¬†coming months. If the outlook for the labor market does not¬†improve substantially, the Committee will continue its¬†purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed¬†securities, and employ its other policy tools as¬†appropriate, until such improvement is achieved in a¬†context of price stability. In determining the size, pace,¬†and composition of its asset purchases, the Committee will,¬†as always, take appropriate account of the likely efficacy¬†and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum¬†employment and price stability, the Committee expects that¬†a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will¬†remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset¬†purchase program ends and the economic recovery¬†strengthens. In particular, the Committee decided to keep¬†the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4¬†percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally¬†low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at¬†least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2¬†percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is¬†projected to be no more than a half percentage point above¬†the Committee‚Äôs 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term¬†inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In¬†determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative¬†stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider¬†other information, including additional measures of labor¬†market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and¬†inflation expectations, and readings on financial¬†developments. When the Committee decides to begin to remove¬†policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach¬†consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment¬†and inflation of 2 percent. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben¬†S. Bernanke, Chairman; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman;¬†James Bullard; Elizabeth A. Duke; Charles L. Evans; Jerome¬†H. Powell; Sarah Bloom Raskin; Eric S. Rosengren; Jeremy C.¬†Stein; Daniel K. Tarullo; and Janet L. Yellen. Voting¬†against the action was Esther L. George, who was concerned¬†that the continued high level of monetary accommodation¬†increased the risks of future economic and financial¬†imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in long-term inflation expectations. SEE ALSO:¬†Deutsche Bank Explores The Tricky Situation Of A Federal Reserve Technical Insolvency &gt;
APThe Federal Reserve released a paper recently that has a lot of people talking. Titled "The Federal Reserve‚Äôs Balance Sheet and Earnings: A primer and¬†projections," the report dives into one of the most contentious questions currently surrounding Fed policy: as the central bank purchases more and more bonds through quantitative easing and its share of the market increases, what is its plan for an exit? One of the big conclusions in the report is that if rising interest rates force the Fed to take losses on its massive bond portfolio, it could be forced to suspend the regular payments it remits to the Treasury ‚Äì the interest income the central bank earns from the securities on its balance sheet. The Fed said as much in the minutes from the December FOMC meeting, which included the sentence, "Depending on the path for the balance sheet and interest rates, the Federal Reserve's net income and its remittances to the U.S. Treasury could be significantly affected during the period of policy normalization." The new report puts a price tag on those losses. According to the paper, if the Fed purchases around $1 trillion of bonds in 2013 ‚Äì exactly as the market expects it to ‚Äì the central bank will likely be forced to suspend remittances to the Treasury between 2015 and 2019, with peak unrealized losses on its bond portfolio reaching $250 billion. Deutsche Bank strategist Stephen Abrahams released an analysis of the Federal Reserve paper today. In his note to clients, he points out that "unrealized losses diminish over time as securities mature, prepay or are sold." However, those unrealized losses could pose a nasty political problem for the Fed, writes Abrahams (emphasis added): These or similar projections almost undoubtedly went before the Federal Open Market Committee in December. The minutes noted that the staff presented an analysis of QE focusing in part on the Fed balance sheet. One of the study authors, Jane Ihrig, attended the meeting, although the minutes do not say whether she presented the staff analysis or participated in the discussion.  The possibility of suspending remittances and carrying unrealized losses could complicate the Fed‚Äôs relationships with the rest of Washington and the public. While remittances help the federal government pay down debt, any shortfall in operating income leading to a suspension of remittances would require the Fed to borrow from Treasury. And while unrealized losses have no effect on Fed operations because of the way government accounts for them, they would leave a private company technically insolvent. It is unclear how Washington and the public might react to these circumstances and whether the Fed‚Äôs independence might be challenged. Abrahams calls the combination of the language in the December FOMC minutes and the contents of the Fed's report "arguably the Fed‚Äôs first move to prepare the public for the potential costs of QE." Furthermore, if concerns over the costs of QE rise, Abrahams says, the Fed could consider three alternative courses of policy action:
English Rose247 via FlickrI was raised Jewish, so I never had the experience of being told that Santa Claus wasn't real. But whatever that's like, I imagine it's how believers in The Confidence Fairy are feeling today, after the release of the government's GDP report. What's the Confidence Fairy? We'll get to that in a second. But first, it's worth pointing out that it was a very strange GDP report. For the first time since the end of the recession, we got a negative, contractionary print. GDP shrank 0.1%, a number that was far below expectations. But our conclusion, as well as that of many Wall Street analysts, was that the number was far stronger than appeared. The negative aspects of the report came from a decline in military spending, and a slower pace of inventory accumulation by businesses. Conversely, end consumption, investment in equipment/software, and residential investment, actually grew quite nicely. And that's where The Confidence Fairy comes in. Believers in The Confidence Fairy believe that if only the government would just get out of the way, and stop having needless political fights, then business would spend more. If the confidence fairy could just provide some assurance on deficits and taxes then -- bam! -- business investment would surge, and people would start hiring. If there were ever going to be a quarter where uncertainty over taxes and spending would slam economic activity, Q4 2012 would have been it. There was the election in early November, and then of course there was the fiscal cliff fight, which literally went all the way to the deadline. In a post at The Guardian, Heidi Moore argues that we did see the effect of the Fiscal Cliff on business confidence. So, what happened? Washington's idiotic battle over the fiscal cliff is what. The automatic tax hikes and government spending cuts set to go into motion would have hurt a wide swath of American people. CEOs were particularly loud about the need for Washington to come to some kind of decision. Still, despite the pleading and the obvious economic harm implied in letting the fight go to the eleventh hour and beyond, lawmakers refused to get their acts together enough to address the fiscal cliff. Except the numbers don't bear this out. Dean Baker observes one of the biggest bright spots in the report: Investment rebounded from a weak third quarter in which non-residential investment actually shrank. This quarter it added 0.83 percentage points to growth, with investment in equipment and software growing at a 12.4 percent rate. Housing continued to be a big positive in the quarter, adding 0.36 percentage points to growth. A 12.4% annualized rate of equipment/software spending! Baker concludes: One item worth noting is the GDP report provides zero evidence that "fiscal cliff" concerns had any impact on growth in the quarter. Consumer durable purchases and investment in equipment and software were the two strongest components of GDP. If worries over the fiscal cliff were supposed to cause people to put off purchases, consumers and businesses apparently did not get the memo. This isn't just Baker's opinion. WSJ has a piece up: "Fiscal Cliff Didn‚Äôt Hold Back Business Spending." We actually knew that the Fiscal Cliff wasn't a problem for business spending and investment before today. Just earlier this week, Neil Irwin had a great post up at WaPo, pointing out that we got a very strong durable goods report (business spending on big, heavy items) in December, which was right in the teeth of the Fiscal Cliff debate. We also pointed this out in November, that uncertainty and the cliff were having no effect on Durable Goods spending. Other regional Fed numbers and ISM data from late 2012 showed the same thing. Cliff jitters never mounted. Q4 GDP decline was about 2.5 things. 1: A sharp decline in military spending. 2: The reversal of previous inventory build. 2.5: Hurricane Sandy probably affected some regions for part of the quarter. The cliff and confidence were not part of the story. SEE ALSO: Michelle Meyer: Fade the GDP headline &gt;
Screenshot via Bloomberg TV(Reuters) - Shares of Audience Incplunged more than 25 percent in a matter of seconds on Tuesday afternoon before quickly recovering after false reports were posted on social media site Twitter saying the specialty chip maker was being investigated for fraud. "Audience noise suppression company being investigated by DOJ on rumored fraud charges Full report (sic) to follow later," one of the hoax tweets said. The tweets, which carried the handle Conrad Block @Mudd1waters, appeared to come from short-selling firm Muddy Waters, but that was not the case. The hoax tweets also had a photo identical to the picture on the Muddy Waters Twitter page. Muddy Waters' founder is named Carson Block. "There is NO report. This is a hoax. MW does not know this company," Muddy Waters later tweeted on its actual Twitter page. Diane Vanasse, a spokeswoman for Mountain View, California-based Audience, said the company was aware of the hoax but she declined further comment. Nearly 800,000 shares in the stock traded on Tuesday by 3:15 p.m. EST (2015 GMT), or about eight times the volume of 108,000 shares over the past 25 days. The sharp spike in volume could be partly due to computer algorithms set up by traders to scan the Internet and news wires for any mention of Muddy Waters, among other names, so they can short the associated stock symbols, said Jamie Lissette, founder of The Hammerstone Group. "It's good to some degree, because it gets people to realize that we can't just have a computer doing something like that just based on 'Muddy' and a symbol," he said. Lissette, said people at his Westport, Connecticut-based firm, which operates discussion forums for investors, figured out the hoax within seconds because they saw how few followers Conrad Block @Mudd1waters had on Twitter. On Tuesday afternoon, the fake Block had 11 followers, while the real Muddy Waters Twitter site had 7,593 followers. Volume in Audience's stock picked up at about 2:19 p.m. and shares fell sharply, from about $12 a share to a low of $8.87 a share at 2:21 p.m. Trades took place on a number of exchanges, according to Thomson Reuters time-and-sales data. In that two-minute period, about 300,000 shares changed hands, accounting for nearly half of the day's volume, before the stock was halted at 2:22 p.m. by Nasdaq OMX for a five-minute period. At its low, the stock was down 25 percent from the previous close of $11.85 a share. Shares of Audience, which is due to report its quarterly results on Thursday, closed up 4.5 percent at $12.38 on Tuesday afternoon. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Bloomberg TelevisionDavid KellyThe minutes of the Federal Reserve's last FOMC meeting revealed that some Fed members want to tighten monetary policy sooner than expected. Some fear that a premature move by the Fed could wreak havoc on the bond markets. But, others think it would do more good than bad for the economy. In a report published earlier this month, J.P. Morgan Funds' Dr. David Kelly and David M. Lebovitz argue that the Fed's loose monetary policy is now doing more bad than good. "Easy money has now gone well beyond the point of being ineffective in stimulating the economy and is now, in fact, a significant drag on U.S. economic growth," they write. What it was supposed to do was increase the flow of money throughout the economy, which would act as stimulus.† But that hasn't happened in any material way. Kelly and Lebovitz's note includes a stack of charts supporting their thesis. NOTE: Thanks to JP Morgan Funds for allowing us to feature these charts.
You can almost feel the vitriol in Paul Singer's Q4 investor letter to clients of his hedge fund, Elliott Management. Naturally, that vitriol is directed at Argentina. The two parties have been engaged in a knock down, drag out legal battle over $1.2 billion of unpaid Argentine sovereign debt for years now. Singer even got a Court in Ghana to hold an Argentine naval vessel in one of the African nation's ports. And in December, just when it looked like things were going Singer's way, Argentina's lawyers managed to get the case sent back to an appellate court. So when CNBC's Maneet Ahuja broke the news that Singer spent a large portion of his Q4 letter bashing Argentina, no one was really surprised. The length of his rant and the passion in his writing, however, is just stunning. From the letter: During the fourth quarter, there were considerable developments in our long-standing litigation against the Republic of Argentina. In late October, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed a district court ruling that (i) Argentina violated the Equal Treatment provision in Elliott‚Äôs bond contract with the Republic, and (ii) as a remedy for the violation, Argentina must make ratable payments to Elliott and its co-plaintiffs when it makes payments on its performing bonds. The appellate court remanded two issues (how the ratable payment formula operates and how the injunction applies to third parties involved in the payment mechanism) for clarification to the district court, which ruled in our favor on both issues in late November. The Second Circuit set an expedited schedule for briefing and oral argument related to the remanded issues, with a hearing set for February 27. Argentina‚Äôs response to the ruling was defiant and acrimonious. The nation‚Äôs highest officials ‚Äì including President Cristina Kirchner ‚Äì immediately, loudly, and repeatedly declared that Argentina would not comply with the court‚Äôs order. They even called the decision ‚Äújudicial colonialism,‚Äù which is quite puzzling since in its bond contract Argentina chose irrevocably both to submit itself to the jurisdiction of New York courts and to waive its sovereign immunity. The hypocrisy was also thick considering that Argentina proudly accepts U.S. court rulings that fall in favor of the Republic. Given Argentina‚Äôs hawkish and incoherent hyperbole following the ruling, it is hardly difficult to understand why the global community (in both the public and private sectors) has lost patience with the Kirchner Administration. A significant number of World Bank members have recently been voting against most aid to Argentina, the World Trade Organization‚Äôs complaints against Argentina are piling up, the International Monetary Fund has signaled it may deliver the Republic a ‚Äúred card‚Äù by early February, and there is increasing commentary calling for Argentina‚Äôs removal from the G-20. Furthermore, despite Argentina‚Äôs slim 40% debt-to-GDP ratio, traders currently price Argentine sovereign debt as among the least creditworthy in the world, demanding yields of approximately 11%. By comparison, sovereign debt issued by Argentina‚Äôs neighbors, which include nations with considerably fewer sources of wealth on a per capita basis, trade at less than half that yield. The lesson is painfully obvious: the inexhaustible disregard for the rule of law by the political class has cost the Republic, its provinces and local businesses tens of billions of dollars in debt service, and it will continue to stand in the way of an Argentine economic recovery. Nonetheless, Argentina continues to thumb its nose at the international community by picking and choosing at its own discretion which laws it will observe and which ones it will ignore. As reported in our last quarterly investor letter, in early October we obtained from a Ghanaian court an order detaining an Argentine naval training vessel in order to secure judgments against Argentina rendered in the U.S. courts. Argentina appealed to the Tribunal for the Law of the Sea Convention (yes, there is actually such a body) in Hamburg, which in mid-December ordered Ghana to release the ship. Before the Ghanaian courts could even consider whether the Tribunal‚Äôs ruling should be given effect in that country ‚Äì a question as to which there was considerable doubt, given that Ghana has enacted no substantive law providing that orders of relief from this body supervene the decisions of the Ghanaian courts ‚Äì Argentina grabbed its ship and skipped town. Sounds like Singer liked having that ship. No wonder Argentina's President decided to leave her private plane behind and leased a plane for her latest world tour ‚Äî Singer's out for blood.
Doug Short is out with his fantastic chart illustrating the latest GDP advance estimate tick, which shocked everyone by going negative. First, here's the BEA's breakdown: And here's the chart with a nice historic review: Doug Short/Advisor Perspectives SEE MORE: The Evidence That We Are Entering A New Market Supercycle &gt;
Flickr/Null ValuePolice in Japan discovered the body of a missing portfolio manager and what is believed to be the body of his wife near Tokyo two days ago, Bloomberg News reported.¬† The deceased man has been identified as Makoto Shimomi, 51, a Japanese fund manager who regularly traveled between Japan and Switzerland. ¬† He and his wife Mie Shimomi, 48, went missing back on December 7. ¬† According to the Japan Daily Press, citing police, the couple left their Tokyo condo that evening and told others they were going to a party they had been invited to by an acquaintance. ¬†Police told that paper they that party didn't take place.¬† The bodies were found burried in¬†Saitama, which is outside of Tokyo,¬†and showed signs of strangulation, the report said citing police.¬† So far, two men have been arrested in connection with the deaths, the Bloomberg report said. ¬† Makoto ran a fund that was based in Lichtenstein. SEE: The 10 Most Shocking Deaths On Wall Street &gt;
Alex Wong/Getty ImagesJos. A Bank is facing a dilemma because its customers aren't responding to the ridiculous deals it offers. But the struggling retailer has one loyal customer in Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke.¬† Bernanke told Time in 2009 that he buys all his suits there.¬† Detailing the contents of his wallet, he said: ¬† "I've got a D.C. driver's license, my American Express card, a debit card, a Jos. [A.] Bank card where I get my suits, I have a health insurance card. And then I have a variety of other cards, phone numbers, United Airlines, frequent flyer. And I have $45...$75...$85. I'm all set." The average Jos. A Bank suit costs around $650 before promotions like "buy one, get two free" suits. Meanwhile, more upscale labels like Armani charge thousands of dollars.¬† The U.S. economic problems Bernanke details in Fed meetings are also part of the reason Jos. A Bank is flailing.¬† "The problems come down to the investment perhaps in¬†a job where income growth is next to nothing," said Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Productions. "Or, for a job interview that they may never call back." SEE ALSO:¬†Jos. A Bank's Worst Nightmare Is Coming True &gt;¬†
1 in 7 households in the U.S. is headed by someone that was not a U.S. citizen at birth, according to latest report from the U.S. Census Bureau. This includes homes that are both owned or rented. Of the over 74 million homes that are owned, 88.8 percent or 66 million are owned by someone born in the U.S.. Meanwhile, 8.3 million or 11.2 percent are owned by someone born abroad. Among these naturalized citizens owned 7.8 percent of homes, while non-citizens owned 3.4 percent. Only 10 metros account for over 50 percent of the country's foreign-born households. Among these, New York and Los Angeles had over 1 million foreign-born households. On a state level, the largest number with foreign born households were California at 4 million, New York at 1.8 million, and Texas at 1.7 million, and Florida at 1.5 million. U.S. Census Bureau † This chart shows the distribution of housing tenure (whether homes are rented or owned) by country of birth, and the percent of these that are owned free or clear of mortgages and loans. U.S. Census Bureau
Chatting with them about investments really brought home to me the challenge many face of obtaining sufficient stable income on which to live. Bonds purchased years ago are maturing and the replacement opportunities are far less attractive. Equities remain a scary place although the strong start to the year is leading to modestly improved risk appetites. But for many retired baby boomers, they are having to confront significantly lower investment income than they imagined perhaps as recently as 6-7 years ago. There remains a great deal of cash on the sidelines. Discussions of Master Limited Partnerships (MLPs) were well received. Indeed, MLPs¬†have had a good year already less than a month into 2013, with returns year-to-date that are double all of 2012. Barring a disaster over the next couple of days, January will be one of the five strongest months since 1996 (as far back as the Alerian¬†MLP¬†Index goes). We continue to like MLPs¬†as an investment, although distribution yields of 5-6% with growth rates of 4-6% suggest a long term annual total return of 10-12%. January has pretty much delivered that in one month, so some moderation shouldn‚Äôt be surprising. Dividend yielding stocks have similarly bounced back, as the concerns about investment tax rates that were so pervasive in December turned out to be somewhat more negative¬†than reality. ... We have recently made a couple of small sales. Insurance companies have been seeing improved pricing and consequently their discounts to book value have been narrowing. We sold the last of Aspen Re (AHL) as it approached 80% of book value. We continue to own AIG which is still¬†just a little over 50% of book value and looks set to continue shrinking its shares outstanding through buybacks, thus raising its book value. We also sold Republic Services Group (RSG) which we felt was fully valued. We remain constructive on equities overall though, so will be looking for opportunities to reinvest this cash. At the GAIM hedge fund conference I gave my presentation about my book, The Hedge Fund Mirage. Hedge fund investors largely agreed with my findings (at least, the ones I spoke to) and my conclusions echoed many of their personal experiences. Most of the delegates with whom I chatted agreed that the hedge fund industry needs to make some changes if it is to thrive. My bet is that it will ‚Äì there are far too many intelligent people with their careers in the business to assume that they‚Äôll fail to adapt to the difficult return environment so many face. George Soros, who knows a thing or two about hedge funds and how they operate, said in Davos last week that hedge funds couldn‚Äôt beat the market because of the fees they charge. He must have read my book.  Read more posts on In Pursuit of Value ¬ª
Perhaps the most well-known of these emerging markets are the BRIC nations ‚Äì Brazil, Russia, India, and China. ¬†Extremely populous, rich in natural resources, loaded with both skilled and unskilled labor, and recent-rapid GDP growth, these countries appear to be, at least to the superficially-informed investor, almost ‚Äúsurefire‚Äù sources of high returns.¬† Not so fast. As intellectually comforting as it is to think such seemingly low-risk, high return markets exist, it‚Äôs necessary to remember that most emerging markets ‚Äì including all 4 BRICs ‚Äì are not immune to global downturns (or, in the case of 2013, stagnation).¬† Here, then, is why 2013 will be tough on the BRIC countries: Brazil: For many hedge funds and private investors, Brazil has become 2013‚Äôs investment market-du-jour.¬† And, really, it all makes sense: a recent population boom (in 2011, the total population in Brazil was 196.7 million, up from 72.7 million in 1960, representing a growth of 170 percent during the last 50 years), an emerging and growing manufacturing industrial complex,¬† and a boost in production in preparation for the 2014 Fifa World Cup and the 2016 Summer Olympics all make Brazil the ‚Äúgo-to, must-see‚Äù target for the investing world.¬† In fact, coming off a slow 2012, Brazil appears to many in the investment world poised for a comeback. It‚Äôs not. 2013 is set to be a difficult year for Brazil. For starters, broadly, the country‚Äôs GDP growth trends have been on the downslide for the past few years, from ‚Äú7.5 per cent in 2010 to 2.8 per cent in 2011 and 1.5 per cent last year,‚Äù suggesting that economically, Brazil will trend with (stagnating) global rates this year. Furthermore, the country‚Äôs 2012 employment numbers were grim, creating the fewest new jobs in a decade (1.3MM vs. 2MM in 2011), suggesting a contraction in growth due in part to shifting commodity prices and increased production competition from abroad (a trend that will continue in 2013); even more dire, the world‚Äôs 6th largest economy is set to face electricity rations in 2013, in part due to a drought last year that is ‚Äúthreatening electricity generation at Brazil‚Äôs big hydropower plants,‚Äù a reality that will hamper production and profit this year. Finally, much of Brazil‚Äôs growth (and optimism related to such) has, generally, emerged from the expensive commodities market of the 2000‚Äôs (due, in part, to a growing global middle class and erratic weather and manufacturing patterns) that boosted the country‚Äôs economic standing. Because ‚Äúthe country has grown largely in concert with surging demand for its stores of oil, copper, iron ore, and other natural resources,‚Äù Brazil‚Äôs emergence has depended on external factors to grow while simultaneously (and tragically) the government has failed to institute significant internal controls and structures to continue sustainable growth. In fact, inflation may very be the greatest risk to Brazilian growth in 2013 ‚Äì something for investors to consider when anticipating the Brazilian government‚Äôs next actions; while ‚ÄúBrazil's central bank is committed to bringing down inflation,‚Äù government controls ‚Äì short of imposing shut-downs and rationing - have done little to curb inflation during times of instability.¬† In short, Brazil will pose significant risk to investors in 2013. Russia: Lurking in the political and economic background of the BRIC growth story tableau sits Russia, the world‚Äôs largest energy exporter (oil and natural gas account for approximately 70% of the country‚Äôs exports) and, to some, troublemaker. While Russia is set to become ‚ÄúEurope's biggest economy by 2030,‚Äù the World Bank predicts slow growth in 2013 ‚Äúdue to rising inflation, weakening domestic demand, and sluggish external demand.‚Äù¬† Since, much like Brazil, the majority of Russia‚Äôs recent growth has been tied to rising commodities prices (in particular, oil), Russia in particular sits on the precipice of disaster, should prices shift even moderately. Furthermore, there‚Äôs little chance the Misha Bear escapes the economic and political turmoil hitting the Eurozone without some contraction within its borders. Given that Russia is the third largest trading partner of the EU (and the EU the first trading partner of Russia), as the EuroEconomies continue contracting, Russia will correspondingly see a drop in demand for product and energy, ergo driving down the country‚Äôs GDP (which will most likely hit between 3-3.8% growth, based primarily on energy production ‚Äì a number that would most likely and theoretically hover near 5%, if not for the EuroCrisis), making 2013 slower than predicted. Finally, Russia faces a significant demographics crisis in 2013 (and beyond): the country with nearly 143MM people (decreasing nearly 1MM people/year, down from a historic high of 148MM in 1992) is growing irretrievably older (while birth rates continue declining), posing significant challenges to the pension and infrastructure systems, already stretched considerably beyond their means. While Russia tries growing in 2013, its ties to the EuroZone, demographic realities, and reliance upon commodities will keep it both unstable and unpredictable an investment target.¬† India: The uninitiated, predictions of India‚Äôs growth (approximately 6%) in 2013 look promising, as experts note that ‚Äú‚Äôthe growth rate of India is less reliant on international factors than is the case for other Asian countries.‚Äù The economic devil, however, is, as in all things, in the details.¬† In particular, ‚Äú‚Äôweaker consumption and investment demand as a result of persistent inflation, high nominal interest rates, large fiscal deficits and political gridlock‚Äô" remain ‚Äì all issues that will continue curbing growth this year. Asia‚Äôs #3 economy also faces a significant ‚Äúbudget shortfall, the widest in the BRIC‚Äù block of nations, meaning the country‚Äôs recent slowdown ‚Äúhas become more structural than cyclical,‚Äù which in turn suggests the country can attain sustainable growth only through improved infrastructure projects and a focus on fiscal and current-account deficits, neither moves which the government appears ready to tackle in 2013.¬† In short, the country‚Äôs over-reliance on agricultural production, combined with its unstable social network (cultural and religious barriers still hold back significant portions of the country's population from participation in the broader labor market) and labor forces, will most likely result in an unstable, overly-risky 2013 for investors in the country. China:¬† This brings us to China, perhaps the sexiest and most publicized/feared BRIC story of the 20th century.¬† Make no mistake: the bloom is off the financial rose that is the Chinese miracle story. 2013 will prove both a pivotal and difficult year for the emerging nation, as political and economic instabilities come to the fore. In particular, look to the country‚Äôs debt load to weigh down (it must be noted, un)official growth numbers, as news has recently emerged that ‚ÄúChinese banks have rolled over at least three-quarters of all loans to local governments that were due to mature by the end of 2012.‚Äù ¬†And ‚Äúwhile the total debt load numbers remain opaque, experts predict them to total between 25-250% of percent of the country's GDP,‚Äù a number that should put any investor on edge.¬† Furthermore, due in a significant part to the fact that within the past few years ‚ÄúChina accelerated administrative approvals for infrastructure investment, notably for building subways, in the middle of last year, in a bid to boost economic growth,‚Äù these in-process projects are set to begin dampening growth as early as this year.¬† And while economists predict 8% growth for the nation this year, much of that will be tempered by the EuroCrisis, now in its 4th year, as the region starts grappling with the possibility of a Greek and/or Spanish exit.¬† In short, 2013 marks the year that China starts dealing with the delayed price tag of its unimpeded growth of the last decade, much to the detriment of the world‚Äôs investors. So there we have it.¬† Will 2013 mark the end of the BRIC block of emerging nations?¬† No, of course not.¬† But investors would be wise to understand that no return comes without risk, and, in the cases of the BRIC countries of 2013, one region may pay more risk than reward. Margaret Bogenrief is a partner with¬†ACM Partners, a boutique crisis¬†management and distressed investing firm serving companies and municipalities in financial distress.¬† She can be reached at margaret@acm-partners.com. 
Two Brooklyn neighborhoods have made it onto a list of the 10 most expensive neighborhoods in New York City released by real estate listing website PropertyShark.com. Dumbo, which ranked fourth in median home sale prices last year, had the ninth-highest median sale price in 2012, at $869,259. And Boerum Hill, where prices have risen significantly in the past several years, ranked sixth on this year's list, with a median sale price of $950,000. Manhattan neighborhoods remained firmly at the top of the list: the median sale price in two neighborhoods, SoHo and TriBeCa, topped $2 million. Check out the top 10 from PropertyShark: via PropertyShark ¬† via PropertyShark
Last year's historic U.S. drought was devastating to America's farms.¬† It also brought down the water levels in America's river, which has created probably for river-based trade. Currently, the EIA is forecast levels to rise in the near-term, but then fall back to its lows.¬† And that could mean more trouble for trade. From the EIA: As a result of last year's drought, stretches of the Upper Mississippi River have approached record lows. These low water levels have jeopardized commercial barge traffic shipping agricultural and energy commodities on the river. Recent rock blasting and dredging by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and rainfall in the near-term forecast are expected to provide some relief. Key energy commodities transported via Mississippi River barges are coal and, increasingly, crude oil and distillate fuel oil. Large stretches of the Upper Mississippi have seen low water levels, although for the most part the Lower Mississippi River Basin (after the confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, near the Missouri, Illinois, and Kentucky borders) has remained at normal water levels. When levels start to drop below certain points, barge traffic is slowed because of congestion in the narrower portion of the river that remains navigable. Here's a chart from the EIA showing current levels and projected levels: EIA
The European stock markets have closed down for the day. But Italy got destroyed, with its FTSE MIB index sinking 3.4%. Earlier this morning, energy company Saipem slashed its profit forecast sending the stock down nearly 40 percent.¬† Other energy companies are following Saipem sharply lower.¬† The broad market may be down on concerns that profit misses will be more widespread. Here's the intraday chart of the FTSE MIB from Bloomberg: Bloomberg
Randomly this just landed in our inbox. 
Read more posts on Middle Class Political Economist ¬ª
Gas Prices Pegged to Risk On Trade As long as gas prices are pegged to the market rally in equities and the currencies in the Risk On Trade then this rally is nearing its end. Gas prices are up 35 cents and climbing, oil is up $13 and climbing and because of Congress consumers are being taxed more in 2013, and as a result have less take home pay to apply towards discretionary spending. That combination makes for a healthy economy? Decoupling Needed for Ultimate Recovery Until gasoline and oil finally decouple from the Risk On Trade we are going to continually have this stop and start economy every time the market goes up on the correlated asset trade. At this pace I give the rally two more weeks at most, unless the aforementioned assets decouple. Gold and silver have decoupled, but oil is moving right up with the euro and yen funding currency crosses.¬† Since When is a Higher Euro Good for a European Recovery Not only is the Risk On trade going to kill the market rally in the US as consumers pull back as portrayed by the slide in consumer sentiment yesterday. But a stronger Euro is going to cause a very fragile Europe to contract more making their struggles even more pronounced with uncompetitive exports. This will cause the European market rally to falter, which in turn will cause a selloff in risk assets, and we are right back to where we started begging the central banks for more stimulus to support the markets once again. The Unintended Consequences Until markets get this correct, the economy is never going to recover. Essential commodities have to decouple from the risk on trade, especially when supplies are ample in the market. This just taxes consumers more, and they have to pull back discretionary spending to pay for higher fuel costs. Now once Europe and the US pull back, China`s end markets are weaker, and they pull back once again in their manufacturing based economy.¬† The Fed Giveth &amp; the Fed Taketh Away This endless loop is so frustrating because it is easily remedied with some minor tweaks to markets which we have discussed elsewhere. On the policy front the Fed actually got it right with the concentration on mortgages, and QE3 initially didn`t cause oil and gas prices to spike. However, this buying of treasuries once again, just backfires in the long run because any economic gains in the stock market as a result of the extra treasury purchases juicing up stocks also juices up oil prices. Ergo, once oil prices are inflated, this also inflates gasoline prices as we have seen during this run in all Risk On Assets.¬† The interconnectedness of markets between the Euro/Dollar cross and the Dollar/Yen cross, equities, oil &amp; gasoline means that the Risk On Trade seals its own demise in the end by being contractionary in nature.¬† It is similar to a cocaine addict in the end because the initial increased energy of higher stock prices is overtaken by the negative side effects of higher gas prices and a weakened overall condition after a longer duration of time. The Einstein Definition of Insanity So the benefits of higher stock prices are soon negated by higher gasoline prices, which hurts consumers, consumer sentiment, and the economy and this causes the market to sell off, and we are right back to where we started relying on more fed inspired QE programs to stimulate the economy once again.¬† It is the dumbest and most self-defeating economic cycle in modern fed theory. The policy has been proven a failure by the very need to be continually ‚Äúartificially propping up the economy‚Äù. ¬© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle     Read more posts on EconMatters ¬ª Plinkk via www.flickr.com creative commons
But its cash and debt problems remain, writes Argus Research's Phil Weiss. Weiss is arguably the top Chesapeake analyst, having nailed recent filings and getting named the second-best sell-side energy analyst on the Street by Reuters. †† In a special note released this morning following McClendon's announcement, Weiss says he will not upgrade Chesapeake because its books remain totally lopsided: We remain concerned about liquidity and leverage at HOLD-rated Chesapeake Energy Corp. (NYSE: CHK), particularly after management's admission in November that its debt reduction goal would be pushed back. In addition, a number of asset sales that we had expected to be completed by now have still not been announced. While he sees McClendon's retirement as a "positive development," Weiss says these problems will not disappear simply as a result of management and board restructuring. Potential buyers of the company's assets, he says, are almost certainly thinking the same thing: ...we prefer to see concrete evidence of change rather than rely on management's proclamations. We also think that the delayed asset sales may highlight an issue we have discussed in the past: the market is aware of CHK's liquidity issues, and potential buyers are likely driving hard bargains. Shares are up 6 percent today. SEE MORE: The Rise And Spectacular Fall Of Aubrey McClendon &gt;
From DealBook's Ben Protess: Mr. Corzine, a former chief of†Goldman Sachs, has started to regain his footing. He spent the summer on Long Island, traveled to France around the holidays and visited Central America for a humanitarian project involving children, setting up what he hopes will become a broader charitable effort. Mr. Corzine, 66, also spends time with his grandchildren and has office space in Midtown Manhattan, where he writes and trades with his own money. In the most telling indication that Mr. Corzine is taking steps to put MF Global behind him, he was close to cooperating with Richard Ben Cramer, an author and a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter, on a biography. Mr. Corzineís lawyers were in the final stages of negotiating with Mr. Cramer this month when the author died from complications of lung cancer. Well, he's certainly keeping himself occupied.†
The last time consumers were this bummed out was October 2011, when there was widespread talk of a double-dip recession. But this time business news is buoyant. The stock market is bullish. The housing market seems to have rebounded a bit. So why are consumers so glum? Because they‚Äôre deeply worried about their jobs and their incomes ‚Äì as they have every right to be. The job situation is still lousy. We‚Äôll know more this coming Friday about what happened to jobs in January. But we know over 20 million people are still unemployed or underemployed. Personal income is in terrible shape. The median wage continues to drop, adjusted for inflation. Most people can‚Äôt get readily-available loans because banks are still cautious about lending to anyone without a sterling credit history. (Eliminate student loans and you find Americans aren‚Äôt borrowing any more than they were a year ago.) And the payroll tax hike has reduced paychecks for the typical American by about $100 a month. That‚Äôs just about what the typical family spends to fill up their gas tanks per month. Or half what they spend for groceries each week. Contrast the current pessimism with consumer sentiment last October. Then, a majority polled by the Conference Board expected their incomes to rise over the next six months. Now just 14 percent expect their incomes to rise, and 23 percent expect them to fall. That 9 percent gap of pessimists exceeding optimists is the largest since the spring of 2009 when the Great Recession was almost at its worst. The stock market is bullish because corporate profits are up, costs are down, the ‚Äúfiscal cliff‚Äù agreement has locked in low taxes for most of the upper-middle class and wealthy, and there‚Äôs no sign of inflation as far as the eye can see. But corporate profits can‚Äôt stay high when American consumers ‚Äì whose spending is 70 percent of the U.S. economy ‚Äì are this pessimistic about the future. They‚Äôre just not going to spend. American companies won‚Äôt be able to make up the difference in foreign markets. Europe is careening into a recession. Japan is still in deep trouble. China‚Äôs growth has slowed. Profits are the highest share of the U.S. economy on record. Wages are the lowest. But this imbalance can‚Äôt and won‚Äôt last. Investors: beware. Politicians: Don‚Äôt do any more deficit reduction. When consumers are this glum, austerity economics is particularly dangerous.¬† If the next showdowns over the fiscal cliff, government appropriations, and debt ceiling result in more deficit cuts this year, we‚Äôre in a recession. Read more posts on robertreich.org¬ª
flickr / INABA TomoakiBoeing's Q4 2012 earnings release is out. A live blog of the earnings conference call at 10:30 AM is below. The aircraft manufacturer reported earnings of $1.28 per share, better than analysts' estimates of $1.18. Revenues came in at $22.30 billion, just a hair below the $22.33 expected. The company sees 2013 earnings in the range of $5.00-5.20 per share versus analysts' estimates of $5.16. Boeing expects 2013 revenues in the range of $82-85 billion versus estimates of $87.90. Shares are up slightly in pre-market trading. The company touched briefly on the Dreamliner crisis in the release: On January 16, 2013, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued an airworthiness directive that resulted in all in-service 787s temporarily ceasing operations. The company is committed to working with the FAA and other applicable regulatory authorities to return aircraft to service with the full confidence of customers and the traveling public. While production continues on the 787, the company is suspending deliveries until clearance is granted by the FAA. Boeing says it expects to deliver more than 60 787s in 2013. In the release, Boeing CEO Jim McNerney said,¬†‚ÄúOur first order of business for 2013 is to resolve the battery issue on the 787 and return¬†the airplanes safely to service with our customers. At the same time, we remain focused on¬†our ongoing priorities of profitable ramp up in commercial airplane production, successful¬†execution of our development programs, and continued growth in core, adjacent and¬†international defense and space markets.‚Äù Click here for the full release &gt; See below for a summary of Boeing management's comments from the earnings call. CONFERENCE CALL [click here for the webcast] 10:30 AM ET -¬†Call begins. CEO Jim McNerney and CFO Greg Smith are on the line. 10:32 - Jim:¬†The business outlook is good, and Boeing expects economic conditions to stabilize this year. Boeing led the industry in new orders for aircraft in 2012. 10:34 - Jim:¬†Nearly two-thirds of Boeing's order book is outside the U.S. and Europe. With volatility in fuel prices, customers continue to see accelerated deliveries, while cancellations remain at low levels. 10:35 - Jim:¬†Boeing continues to see strong demand particularly in the Middle East, Brazil, and Asia Pacific. 10:36 - Jim: Although the threat of sequestration looms, Boeing is still seeing solid demand for unmanned systems and cyber-security. 10:39 - Jim:¬†In 2012, Boeing successfully completed five rate increases on its commercial airplane programs. 10:40 - Jim: Boeing is currently producing 5 787s per month. It expects to be able to crank out 7 787s per month by mid-2013 and 10 per month by the end of the year. 10:41 - Jim:¬†Boeing rigorously supports the investigation into Dreamliner malfunctions and is working around the clock to identify the problem. Progress is being made. "We deeply regret the impact this is having on our customers." 10:42 - Jim:¬†Final stage assembly of the new 787-9 is expected in mid-2013. The first customer delivery remains on track for early 2014. 10:46 - Greg:¬†Unprecedented low interest rates have caused a significant increase in non-cash pension management costs. New non-GAAP measures ‚Äì referred to as "core operating earnings" and "core earnings per share" ‚Äì will strip those out. 10:49 - Greg: [Greg is running through the financial results, which can be found in Boeing's Q4 earnings release] 10:55 - Greg: Guidance assumes no financial impact from the FAA directive on the Dreamliner investigation. Boeing will inform investors if that changes. 10:58 - Jim:¬†For 2013, our first order of business is obviously getting 787s flying again. 11:00:¬†Q&amp;A begins. 11:00:¬†First question is from Sanford Bernstein. If we were to see an extended delay in 787 deliveries, what would make Boeing consider reducing production rates, and how might this affect the availability of engineering resources for other programs? 11:01 - Jim:¬†That is a highly hypothetical situation. I can't predict an outcome. 11:02 - Sanford Bernstein: Is the problem impacting other development efforts in other product lines? 11:02 - Jim:¬†No, this issue is highly compartmentalized and is not drawing on any critical resources from other growth programs. 11:03:¬†A question from Credit Suisse. What are the parallel paths Boeing is pursuing here; e.g., a software solution versus a more complex electrical change? Also, how much would those paths cost? 11:04 - Jim:¬†The drain on resources from the 787 investigation is not significant. I can't talk about the investigation, but I can assure you there is an ongoing analysis of the root cause, which I'm confident will be identified. "Confidence in the process, confidence in the right resources, and confidence that it's not distracting the balance of Boeing." 11:07: A question from JPMorgan. Cash flow was very strong in Q4 relative to guidance and expectations. What caused that and how does that impact 2013? 11:07 - Greg:¬†There is some pull forward from 2013, and we've been actively managing cash. Also, higher deliveries in Q4. That should continue in 2013 as Boeing ramps up production of commercial aircraft. 11:09:¬†A question from Coen and Co. Is there any reason to think the FAA's approach will change on the 787 from previous investigations? 11:10 - Jim:¬†I don't want to pre-judge what is going to happen. 11:12: A question from BofA Merrill Lynch. How is it going with the 737 MAX, and what should we think about when 787-10 will happen, and what is the timing on the 777X? Also, how do you incrementally evolve a 20-year-old airplane? 11:13 - Jim:¬†MAX development is going very well. We are hitting all of our benchmarks slightly ahead of schedule, and our confidence is growing every day that we will deliver that airplane on time. On the 787-10, we've been conditionally offering the airplane in the marketplace, and the response has been very strong. Very good progress toward that. On the 777X, we are focused on a technical solution that offers significant performance advantages. I think it's been widely discussed that the most likely design is some increased capacity and a composite wing with new engines. "That airplane has eye-watering sorts of performance associated with it." We're getting close to the point where we conditionally offer it to customers. 11:16 - BofA:¬†A composite wing on the 777X is a significant development. There is nothing easy about that, right? 11:17 - Jim:¬†You are correct, it will be a significant amount of work. It's not without challenges, but we are confident. 11:18:¬†A question from Barclays. What will the cadence of 787 deliveries be like throughout the year? Also, for Greg, on the "core EPS" ‚Äì how are you addressing the sizable liabilities that you are stripping out over the long term? 11:19 - Greg:¬†The 787 deliveries are spread throughout the year. With regard to pension liabilities, it continues to be a primary focus. We've taken action in a number of areas, including our investment strategy. We are continuing to make progress in that area, and the change to "core EPS" does not reduce the significance of that liability. 11:25: Questions from the media. One from the AP: how many batteries have been replaced? 11:26 - Jim:¬†We don't have an exact number. Batteries are replaced on our planes every day. We are unaware of any incidence of battery replacement due to safety concerns ‚Äì only for routine maintenance. Replacements have been slightly higher than we predicted. 11:27:¬†A question from Reuters. How would a strike by engineers, which seems possible next month, impact the FAA investigation? 11:28 - Jim:¬†That's another hypothetical that is very hard to predict. We're hopeful discussions with the engineers don't come to that. That question hasn't presented itself as a real issue. 11:29:¬†A question from the WSJ. Are supply chains for the 787 too rigid to implement any changes that may arise from the FAA investigation without affecting the rate of production? 11:30 - Jim:¬†We have a bit of a buffer there in our planning. 11:31:¬†A question from CNBC. Is there any consideration of ditching the lithium-ion batteries in the Dreamliner? 11:31 - Jim:¬†Nothing indicates that we made the wrong choice of the battery at this stage. 11:38: Call ends. Click here to refresh the page for LIVE updates &gt;
What happened?¬† The short answer is the low natural gas prices destroyed the company's earnings. The longer answer is that even before the natural gas glut, McClendon had loaded the company with debt at levels ¬†analysts believed unsustainable.¬† Then last year, Reuters' investigative reporters Anna Driver and Brian Grow said¬†McClendon was borrowing massive loans from a company that also lends to Chesapeake, and using personal stakes in well profits as collateral. We wanted to take a look at the undeniably fabulous life McClendon built for himself, and now must leave behind.
Wikimedia Commons/ Fir0002/FlagstaffotosThe March edition of Bloomberg Markets Magazine features its ranking of the best emerging markets for investors.¬† A key takeaway: Bloomberg indicates that the BRIC nations aren't as attractive as they used to be. For the past three years, stock exchanges in Brazil, Russia, India, and China underperformed global markets. According to Michael Patterson, "investors withdrew a net $1.65 billion from mutual funds that invest in the four countries tracked by research firm EPFR Global." Investors are most concerned about the degree of government interference in the BRIC economies. Bloomberg used a variety of criteria to rank these countries, from GDP growth projections to literacy rates. Courtesy of Bloomberg, we present this list of the most attractive emerging markets for investors, which includes GDP growth, average annual inflation, and government debt-to-GDP ratios from 2013 to 2017, as well as the country's rank on the ease of doing business.
LinkedInSuccessful people don't mess around when it comes to their working space. A desk has to be a place where you can be productive, healthy, and comfortable for many hours, day in day out. Craigslist founder Craig Newmark prefers a sparse desk, while Peter Guber, co-owner of the L.A. Dodgers, keeps his desk "crowded" with memorabilia "to create an un-intimidating environment for business associates." Michael Moritz,¬†Chairman at Sequoia Capital, keeps a bottle of emergency whiskey "for the bad surprise."¬† And some professionals don't work at a desk at all. As a part of¬†LinkedIn's¬†‚ÄúView From My Desk‚Äù¬†series, some of the most successful professionals in the world revealed where they work. We're publishing the highlights with permission.
Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesToday, at 2:15 PM ET, the Federal Open Market Committee releases its latest decision on monetary policy. The release of the FOMC's December meeting minutes in early January surprised observers by revealing that several members of the Committee thought winding down the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program by the end of 2013 would be appropriate. That has added some fuel to the rise in Treasury yields that began in December, and this week, 10-year yields broke above 2 percent for the first time since April. In the trenches, market participants are noticing a change in January. On Friday, bonds staged their biggest sell-off since the beginning of the month. It was as if no one wanted to be long over the weekend. In a note, Brean Capital Head of Rates Russ Certo wrote, "I havenít seen too many days in the bond market recently like Friday, where the market was continuously under pressure, with seemingly paper coming out of the woodwork on any mere flirt of a tick up." Certo contrasted that sort of environment with a typical Friday in 2012, when, due to a lack of anything interesting going on, traders would phone it in and try to cut out early if they could. "Not so, now," says Certo. "I anticipate 2013 will be far more exciting than 2012 and in some ways, already has." The bond market is thus clearly on edge ñ murmurs of a 1994-style replay have surfaced, for example ñ and in that context, the FOMC release could be important. The reason: although the Fed has offered explicit guidance on unemployment and inflation thresholds that must be met before it will consider raising interest rates, it has not offered guidance on when it will halt the bond purchases that constitute its quantitative easing policy ñ which is what everyone is worried about since the release of the December FOMC minutes. Goldman Sachs Chief Economist Jan Hatzius says the FOMC may have discussed "QE thresholds" at this week's policy meeting. In a note to clients Friday, he wrote, "Any move to QE thresholds would probably not occur until the spring or summer of 2013. But the future of QE, the criteria for slowing or ending it, and perhaps even the question of whether QE thresholds are desirable in principle are likely to be on the FOMC's agenda as soon as next week." Deutsche Bank Chief Economist Peter Hooper agrees. In a note, he writes, "For now, the Committee appears to be content to keep current downward pressure on market rates in place via its QE at the current pace of $85 bn per month with no indication of an end in sight. However, in its discussions today and tomorrow, it will have to wrestle with an important element of communications regarding this issue: namely,†how to convey to the market just how much weight it places on the costs of further balance sheet expansion. How it chooses to do so will have important market implications." As for consensus estimates, below are key points from Bloomberg's survey of market economists: We will have the full statement at 2:15 PM ET. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider &gt;
Yesterday, Chesapeake Energy's CEO Aubrey McClendon, who has been under fire, said that he will be retiring effective April 1.¬† The stock is up more than 10% following that news. And it turns out that Icahn is the largest hedge fund shareholder in Chesapeake. As of November 19, 2012, Icahn Associates owned 59,698,689 shares, or an 8.98% stake in Chesapeake, according to 13F data compiled by Bloomberg. Here's what Icahn said in a statement following McClendon's announcement [via Street Insider] Aubrey has every right to be proud of the company he has built, the world class team of people at Chesapeake and the collection of assets he has assembled, which in my opinion, are the best portfolio of energy assets in the country.While it is known that some of these assets will be sold by the company in due course, I do not believe that this will in any way effect the ultimate realization of Chesapeake‚Äôs potential.I am confident that history will prove that Aubrey has been correct about the value of natural gas in general and the value of Chesapeake in particular. Icahn has been in the news non-stop in the last two weeks. ¬†¬† He had a grand slam last week when Netflix posted a surprise profits sending its shares skyrocketing. ¬†Two months ago, Icahn had disclosed a 9.98% stake that he bought for $58 dollars.¬† The stock was last trading above $167 a share.¬† Then he disclosed a 5.6% stake in oil drilling contractor Transocean asking the company declare a $4/share dividend, the WSJ reported.¬†The stock is up more than 1.6% since that was reported. He doesn't win everything, though. ¬† Our readers determined that Icahn's decade-long rival Bill Ackman won the battle of the billionaires on CNBC last Friday. ¬†While Ackman remained relatively calm and mostly said Icahn was dishonest and not nice, Icahn has hurling insults and curse words left and right. ¬†¬† SEE: Ackman And Icahn Brawled On CNBC In The Greatest Moment In Financial TV History &gt;
Bloomberg TelevisionWall Street's take on today's GDP report is very much in line with ours: The number was good, it was the headline that was weird and misleading. BofA's Michelle Meyer's take? The GDP report was a "grossly distorted print." She recommends fading the report, meaning, bet against the prevailing take. Fade the negative GDP headline GDP contracted 0.1% in Q4, significantly below expectations. However, we advise fading the headline number given distortions in the data. Growth was dragged down by a sharp contraction in government defense spending and inventory accumulation, which combined subtracted 2.6pp from growth. Outside of these two very volatile components, underlying growth improved with a solid gain in business investment. We believe todayís report suggests upside risk to our forecast of 1.0% for Q1 GDP. Cannot manage inventories After increasing to a pace of $60.3bn in Q3, growth in inventories plunged to $20.0bn in Q4. This swing sliced 1.3pp from growth. We believe part of this decline owes to the drought which reduced farm inventories (and likely weighed on exports). Nonfarm inventories also contracted, which was likely unintentional as businesses were caught by stronger demand at year-end. As such, we expect a bounce back in inventories in Q1, adding notably to GDP growth. She then goes on to make other points, that end consumption was up and that Q1 should bounce back. Read more on the report here &gt; Watch Below: Trulia CEO Gives His Predictions About The Housing Market In 2013
Coal consumption in China grew over 9 percent in 2011, rising for the 12th straight year, according to the EIA. " China now accounts for 47% of global coal consumption‚Äîalmost as much as the entire rest of the world combined," according to the report. Chinese coal consumption increased by 325 million tons, accounting for 87 percent of the 374 million ton global increase in coal use in 2011.¬† China overtook the U.S. as the world's energy user in 2011, and its energy consumption is known to be largely coal dependent. And it seems like coal will continue to be the dominant energy source for China despite its pollution problems. EIA
Smog, Fraud and Diplomacy, my newest China Insider column, looks at the recent air pollution surge, Caterpillar's China hairball and the latest in the Diaoyu/Senkaku Islands dispute: When faced with a true crisis, the Chinese Communist Party usually acts resolutely, but there is no quick fix for the environmental problems that have been building for decades...Last week‚Äôs column discussed Caterpillar‚Äôs huge write-down of its acquisition of 2012 ERA Mining Machinery after discovering ‚Äúmultiyear, coordinated accounting misconduct.‚Äù Emory Williams, the former chairman of ERA, issued a statement on Monday in which he declared he was ‚Äúshocked‚Äù that there was fraud at his former company...Caterpillar appears to have bought itself a large Chinese hairball, one that will keep many lawyers busy for a long time...There is now some talk of a possible summit but that may be too hopeful as neither side has given any indication it thinks the other even has any grounds for a dispute. To add one last comment to the Bo Xilai trial false alarm discussed Tuesday,¬† Jerome Cohen, an expert on Chinese law, told the New York Times that: he had tried to warn off those who believed the trial was imminent, but he also said that he understood why so many got caught up in the wild-goose chase to distant Guiyang.‚ÄúIt does show the understandably huge mistrust of the Chinese legal system by experienced reporters and their willingness to believe that, in the biggest political case since the trial of the Gang of Four, the government would openly violate its declared legal procedures before the world,‚Äù Professor Cohen said. Today's Links:THE ESSENTIAL EIGHTXi strikes strident tone on foreign policy - FT.com - China will never compromise on what it considers its ‚Äúcore interests‚Äù and ‚Äúlegitimate rights‚Äù, its new leader Xi Jinping has said in his first published speech on foreign policy since taking over as leader of the ruling Communist party in November. Addressing the party‚Äôs elite 25-member Politburo, he struck a noticeably more strident tone than his predecessor Hu Jintao, insisting that China would ‚Äústick to the road of peaceful development but never give up our legitimate rights and never sacrifice our national core interests‚Äù.‰∫∫Ê∞ëÊó•Êä•-‰π†ËøëÂπ≥Âú®‰∏≠ÂÖ±‰∏≠Â§ÆÊîøÊ≤ªÂ±ÄÁ¨¨‰∏âÊ¨°ÈõÜ‰ΩìÂ≠¶‰π†Êó∂Âº∫Ë∞É Êõ¥Â•ΩÁªüÁ≠πÂõΩÂÜÖÂõΩÈôÖ‰∏§‰∏™Â§ßÂ±Ä Â§ØÂÆûËµ∞ÂíåÂπ≥ÂèëÂ±ïÈÅìË∑ØÁöÑÂü∫Á°Ä - Xi on foreign affairs at Politburo study session, page 1 of today's People's Daily (Xi vows peaceful development while not waiving legitimate rights - Xinhua |)// ‰π†ËøëÂπ≥Âº∫Ë∞ÉÔºåÊàë‰ª¨Ë¶ÅÂùöÊåÅËµ∞ÂíåÂπ≥ÂèëÂ±ïÈÅìË∑ØÔºå‰ΩÜÂÜ≥‰∏çËÉΩÊîæÂºÉÊàë‰ª¨ÁöÑÊ≠£ÂΩìÊùÉÁõäÔºåÂÜ≥‰∏çËÉΩÁâ∫Áâ≤ÂõΩÂÆ∂Ê†∏ÂøÉÂà©Áõä„ÄÇ‰ªª‰ΩïÂ§ñÂõΩ‰∏çË¶ÅÊåáÊúõÊàë‰ª¨‰ºöÊãøËá™Â∑±ÁöÑÊ†∏ÂøÉÂà©ÁõäÂÅö‰∫§ÊòìÔºå‰∏çË¶ÅÊåáÊúõÊàë‰ª¨‰ºöÂêû‰∏ãÊçüÂÆ≥ÊàëÂõΩ‰∏ªÊùÉ„ÄÅÂÆâÂÖ®„ÄÅÂèëÂ±ïÂà©ÁõäÁöÑËã¶Êûú„ÄÇ‰∏≠ÂõΩËµ∞ÂíåÂπ≥ÂèëÂ±ïÈÅìË∑ØÔºåÂÖ∂‰ªñÂõΩÂÆ∂‰πüÈÉΩË¶ÅËµ∞ÂíåÂπ≥ÂèëÂ±ïÈÅìË∑ØÔºåÂè™ÊúâÂêÑÂõΩÈÉΩËµ∞ÂíåÂπ≥ÂèëÂ±ïÈÅìË∑ØÔºåÂêÑÂõΩÊâçËÉΩÂÖ±ÂêåÂèëÂ±ïÔºåÂõΩ‰∏éÂõΩÊâçËÉΩÂíåÂπ≥Áõ∏Â§Ñ„ÄÇÊàë‰ª¨Ë¶ÅÂπøÊ≥õÊ∑±ÂÖ•ÂÆ£‰º†ÊàëÂõΩÂùöÊåÅËµ∞ÂíåÂπ≥ÂèëÂ±ïÈÅìË∑ØÁöÑÊàòÁï•ÊÄùÊÉ≥ÔºåÂºïÂØºÂõΩÈôÖÁ§æ‰ºöÊ≠£Á°ÆËÆ§ËØÜÂíåÂØπÂæÖÊàëÂõΩÁöÑÂèëÂ±ïÔºå‰∏≠ÂõΩÂèëÂ±ïÁªù‰∏ç‰ª•Áâ∫Áâ≤Âà´ÂõΩÂà©Áõä‰∏∫‰ª£‰ª∑ÔºåÊàë‰ª¨Áªù‰∏çÂÅöÊçü‰∫∫Âà©Â∑±„ÄÅ‰ª•ÈÇª‰∏∫Â£ëÁöÑ‰∫ãÊÉÖÔºåÂ∞ÜÂùöÂÆö‰∏çÁßªÂÅöÂíåÂπ≥ÂèëÂ±ïÁöÑÂÆûË∑µËÄÖ„ÄÅÂÖ±ÂêåÂèëÂ±ïÁöÑÊé®Âä®ËÄÖ„ÄÅÂ§öËæπË¥∏Êòì‰ΩìÂà∂ÁöÑÁª¥Êä§ËÄÖ„ÄÅÂÖ®ÁêÉÁªèÊµéÊ≤ªÁêÜÁöÑÂèÇ‰∏éËÄÖ„ÄÇ‰∫∫Ê∞ëÊó•Êä•-Ëµ∞ÂíåÂπ≥ÂèëÂ±ïÈÅìË∑ØÊòØÊàòÁï•ÊäâÊã© - Zhong Sheng follows on XI Jinping's foreign policy comments// ‰∏≠ÂõΩÂùöÊåÅËµ∞ÂíåÂπ≥ÂèëÂ±ïÈÅìË∑ØÔºåÂÜ≥‰∏çËÉΩÊîæÂºÉËá™Â∑±ÁöÑÊ≠£ÂΩìÊùÉÁõäÔºåÂÜ≥‰∏çËÉΩÁâ∫Áâ≤ÂõΩÂÆ∂Ê†∏ÂøÉÂà©Áõä„ÄÇÂú®ÂõΩÈôÖËàûÂè∞‰∏äÔºåËøÖÈÄüÂ¥õËµ∑ÁöÑ‰∏≠ÂõΩÂ∑≤ÁªèÊâÆÊºîÔºåÂπ∂Â∞ÜÂú®Áõ∏ÂΩìÈïøÁöÑ‰∏ÄÊÆµÊó∂Èó¥ÂÜÖÁªßÁª≠ÊâÆÊºîË∂äÊù•Ë∂äÈáçË¶ÅÁöÑËßíËâ≤„ÄÇÂùöÂÆöËµ∞ÂíåÂπ≥ÂèëÂ±ïÈÅìË∑ØÁöÑÂêåÊó∂Ôºå‰∏≠ÂõΩ‰πüÈúÄË¶ÅÊèêÈÜí‰∏Ä‰∫õ‰∫∫ÔºöÂõΩÈôÖÊ†ºÂ±ÄÁöÑË∞ÉÊï¥ÔºåÈÄÇÂ∫îÊó∂‰ª£ÊΩÆÊµÅÁöÑÂõΩÈôÖÁß©Â∫èÁöÑÂΩ¢ÊàêÔºå‰ªéÊù•ÈÉΩÊòØÂõΩÈôÖÂÖ≥Á≥ªË°å‰∏∫‰∏ª‰ΩìÔºåÁâπÂà´ÊòØÂ§ßÂõΩ‰∫íÂä®ÁöÑÁªìÊûú„ÄÇÊâìÁ†¥ÂØπÊäóÂÜ≤Á™ÅÁöÑÈôàÊóßÂéÜÂè≤ÈÄªËæëÔºåË¥£‰ªª‰∏çÂè™Âú®‰∏≠ÂõΩ„ÄÇ‰∫∫Ê∞ëÊó•Êä•-ÂèçËÖêÂÄ°ÂªâÂÖ≥Á≥ªÂÖöÂíåÂõΩÂÆ∂ÁîüÊ≠ªÂ≠ò‰∫° ÈíüÁ∫™Â≤© - page 2 people's daily by zhong jiyan on how the party and state's survival is at stake in the corruption crackdown...remember the PD's audience..not average Chinese but Party Members. if they have not gotten the message to clean up their acts, at least while this campaign is still in full swing, then they are not very bright, and/or just incorrigible...as of this writing this piece is the most read on the PD's web site//ËÖêË¥•ÊòØÁ§æ‰ºöÊØíÁò§ÔºåÊòØÂΩ±ÂìçÁªèÊµéÁ§æ‰ºöÂèëÂ±ï„ÄÅÂõΩÂÆ∂ÈïøÊ≤ª‰πÖÂÆâÁöÑËá¥ÂëΩÈ£éÈô©„ÄÇËÖêË¥•ÁöÑÂÆûË¥®ÊòØ‰ª•ÊùÉË∞ãÁßÅ„ÄÇËÖêË¥•‰∏•ÈáçÁ†¥ÂùèÂÖ¨Âπ≥Á´û‰∫âÁöÑÂ∏ÇÂú∫Áß©Â∫èÔºåÂΩ±ÂìçÂ∏ÇÂú∫ÈÖçÁΩÆËµÑÊ∫êÂü∫Á°ÄÊÄß‰ΩúÁî®ÁöÑÊúâÊïàÂèëÊå•ÔºåÂπ≤Êâ∞Á§æ‰ºö‰∏ª‰πâÂ∏ÇÂú∫ÁªèÊµéÁöÑÊ≠£Â∏∏ËøêË°åÔºõ‰∏•ÈáçËøùËÉåÁ§æ‰ºö‰∏ª‰πâÊ∞ë‰∏ªÊîøÊ≤ªÂéüÂàôÔºåÈòªÁ¢ç‰æùÊ≥ïÊ≤ªÂõΩËøõÁ®ãÔºåÊçüÂÆ≥ÂÖöÂíåÊîøÂ∫úÁöÑÂ®Å‰ø°ÂíåÂΩ¢Ë±°ÔºåÈôç‰ΩéÂõΩÂÆ∂ÊîøÊùÉÊú∫ÂÖ≥ÁöÑÂÖ¨‰ø°ÂäõÔºõ‰∏•ÈáçËÉåÁ¶ªÁ§æ‰ºö‰∏ª‰πâÊ†∏ÂøÉ‰ª∑ÂÄºÔºåÊçüÂÆ≥Á§æ‰ºö‰∏ª‰πâÈÅìÂæ∑ÔºåÊªãÈïøËÖêÊúΩËêΩÂêéÊÄùÊÉ≥ÔºåÂä©Èïø‰∏çËâØÁ§æ‰ºöÈ£éÊ∞îÔºõ‰∏•ÈáçÊçüÂÆ≥Á§æ‰ºöÂÖ¨Âπ≥Ê≠£‰πâÔºåÂπ≤Êâ∞Á§æ‰ºöÁÆ°ÁêÜÔºå‰æµÂÆ≥‰∫∫Ê∞ëÊùÉÁõäÔºåÂºïÂèëÁîöËá≥ÊøÄÂåñÁ§æ‰ºöÁüõÁõæÔºåÂΩ±ÂìçÁ§æ‰ºöÂíåË∞êÁ®≥ÂÆö„ÄÇÂ¶ÇÊûú‰∏çÂùöÂÜ≥Èò≤ËåÉÂíåÊÉ©Ê≤ªËÖêË¥•Ôºå‰ªªÂá≠ËÖêË¥•Áé∞Ë±°ÊªãÁîüËîìÂª∂ÔºåÊúÄÁªàÂ∞ÜÂØºËá¥ÁªèÊµéË°∞ÈÄÄ„ÄÅÊîøÊ≤ªÂä®Ëç°„ÄÅÊñáÂåñÈ¢ìÂ∫ü„ÄÅÁ§æ‰ºöÊ∑∑‰π±ÔºåÂÖ®Èù¢Âª∫ÊàêÂ∞èÂ∫∑Á§æ‰ºöÁöÑÂ•ãÊñóÁõÆÊ†áÂ∞ÜÊó†Ê≥ïÂÆûÁé∞Ôºå‰∏≠ÂçéÊ∞ëÊóè‰ºüÂ§ßÂ§çÂÖ¥ÁöÑ‚Äú‰∏≠ÂõΩÊ¢¶‚Äù‰πü‰ºöËêΩÁ©∫„ÄÇFacebook looks more like WeChat every day - spouse now with us on vacation, been using wechat to run her cake business back in Beijing..just an amazing service, but for the data protection concerns...// If you weren‚Äôt paying close attention you might not have noticed, but this is definitely happening: Facebook is getting more like China‚Äôs WeChat with every passing day. Yesterday, Facebook quietly updated its iOS and Android apps to let users send audio messages of up to 60 seconds in length from smartphones. In China, Politically Connected Firms Have Higher Worker Death Rates - Businessweek - The robustness of the link they found was striking: Connected Chinese companies averaged five times as many fatalities as similar unconnected companies. What‚Äôs more, the arrival or departure of a highly connected executive was marked by, on average, the death rate per 10,000 workers rising by 10 or falling by 6.4, respectively, in the following year. In a research summary published in the January/February 2013 issue of Harvard Business Review, they dubbed it ‚Äúthe unsafe side of Chinese crony capitalism.‚Äù ‚ÄúA fivefold difference I personally find to be stunning,‚Äù says Fisman. ‚ÄúI would have expected maybe a 10 percent bump, not 500 percent‚Äîthis is a case where the fact of a connection is not as surprising as the magnitude of it.‚ÄùChina averts local government defaults - FT.com - Chinese banks have rolled over at least three-quarters of all loans to local governments that were due to mature by the end of 2012, an indication of the immense challenge facing China in working down its debt load.Local governments borrowed heavily from banks to fuel China‚Äôs stimulus programme during the global financial crisis and are now struggling to generate the revenue to pay them back, a shortfall that could cast a shadow over Chinese economic growth.Issue 605 28-01-2011 - Economic Observer Online¬† - summarized translation of EEO story on the ERA deal,¬† Caterpillar's China hairball// One person who took part in the initial negotiations to acquire Siwei told the EO that he believed that someone working for Caterpillar's acquisition team accepted bribes from Siwei, noting that "it happened inside a high-end entertainment center in Zhengzhou".
Waverly AdvisorsChanging climate conditions, higher demand in Asia, and inefficient agricultural practices are likely to cause demand-supply imbalances for agricultural commodities. For China which has extremely inefficient farming practices this means it could take a hit as a net importer of grains. In a presentation titled Macro Perspective: Hunger &amp; Pride, Waverly Advisors gives an overview of Chinese grain demand and points out that in the long-run Beijing needs to increase crop yields per-acre ratio to build food security. Thanks to Waverly Advisors for giving us permission to run this presentation.
Research In Motion investors have been laughing all the way to the bank over the past several months. Just when everyone who proclaimed that RIM was a great buy at $50 a share finally joined the chorus of folks singing that RIM was headed straight to zero, a handful of contrarians stepped in and placed "buy" orders below $10. RIM's exciting new product, BlackBerry 10, would be better than expected, these brave folks thought. And, at least initially, they were right. In the past few months, RIM's stock has nearly doubled. But does this mean that RIM will be a winner from here? Now that BB10 launch day has finally arrived, will RIM suddenly begin to reclaim the ground it has lost in the smartphone wars? Highly unlikely, at least in my opinion. Nothing's impossible, but RIM is now the third or fourth player in a market that has become a waltz of elephants (iPhone, Android, Microsoft). And even if BB10 puts RIM on par with the other top smartphones, this won't likely induce enough folks to buy them to save the company. Anyone who finds themselves excited by the possibility that an amazing new gadget will transfix the global smartphone market and save a once-dominant company should take a look at what happened the last time we were in this situation. Way back in 2009, another once-dominant gadget company that had fallen on hard times, Palm, launched a device that some observers thought would save the company--the Palm Pre. The Palm Pre got some great reviews. The Palm Pre was designed by a genius who had been poached from Apple to resurrect the company. The Palm Pre was expected (by some) to shake up the smartphone market and give Apple a run for its money. As the chart below shows, here's what happened after the Palm Pre came out. And Palm stock did go up for a while, especially as early reviewers raved about the Pre. Then the Palm Pre bombed. Then Palm introduced another new gadget, the Pixi. That bombed, too. And then Palm stock basically went to zero. (Basically. The wreckage was eventually bought by a desperate HP, which vastly overpaid for it.) So, careful, RIM enthusiasts! Even if BB10 is a jaw-dropper, this might not save the company. Click here for live coverage of RIM's BB10 launch &gt;  That's what happened for the first year after the Pre launch. Here's what happened over the company's history as a public company: ">Yahoo Finance
The knee-jerk market reaction to today's unexpected contraction in fourth-quarter U.S. GDP was selling. Risk assets dropped immediately on the release, and gold, Treasuries, and the U.S. dollar spiked higher. Now, risk assets are recovering their losses, and bonds and dollars are going back down. Gold, however, keeps going higher. It topped out at $1682 and is trading just above $1680 right now. It was trading around $1665 before the GDP announcement at 8:30 AM. Now, it's up 1.1 percent on the day after struggling in the past few sessions (click to enlarge): Thinkorswim Click here for details of this morning's GDP release &gt;
Why did GDP decline? Simple, because of a massive decline in military spending that's associated with war drawdown (not sequester/budget cuts). Here's the chart that shows that this quarter's military spending collapsed in a way that it hasn't done in a decade. It shows the sequential change in defense consumption, and as you can see it fell by over $40 billion from the previous quarter. For more on today's GDP report, see here &gt; 
World Economic Forum via FlikrMorgan Stanley's high profile hedge fund conference is happening right now at the Breakers Resort in Palm Beach, Florida. † The annual conference has attracted some of the biggest names in the industry, including billionaire Steve Cohen, the founder of SAC Capital. Unfortunately, the press is not allowed. † However, Absolute Return's Lawrence Delevingne has been getting scoops of what's being said at the conference.† One of the panels yesterday was asked to grade Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's performance. Paul Singer, the billionaire fund manager who had one of Argentina's naval ships impounded, doesn't seem impressed with the Fed chair.† From AR:† The panel--moderated by Morgan Stanley's chief U.S. economist, Vincent Reinhart, and featuring Vinik, Ken Ebberts of Goldman Sachs Investment Partners, Michael Novogratz of Fortress Investment Group and Rob Citrone of Discovery Capital Management--was asked to grade Ben Bernanke. †Everyone ont he panel gave the Federal Reserve Chairman an "A" or a "B"; Singer gave a "D."† Well, at least it's not failing.† SEE: The Hedge Fund Manager That Had Argentina's Ship Impounded Is Going To War With Hess &gt;
Analyst Eric Green of TD Securities is out with a take on GDP, and he agrees with us that the number wasn't that bad, despite a negative headline. He notes that it was all due to lumpy military spending, and the giveback from inventories. Furthermore, he sees this as evidence that Q1 will come in strong. †Key point after this release is the decline in GDP looks quirky and will not persist. It makes us more comfortable with a strong bounce in Q1 GDP and does nothing to shake our view that GDP will shift into the 2.5% to 3.0% range over the second half. Growth will remain too low for Fed comfort and the at face value the release today reinforces the bias toward accommodation. That dialogue will continue to evolve and the debate on the Fed will be very different in one year as we transition to stage two, the let it run phase. In the meantime, as the above details in this report become more apparent the market will re-focus on what is next rather than what was. For more on why it wasn't that bad, see here &gt;
White House via FlickrPeople will be stunned to see that today's GDP report went negative for Q4... the first negative print since The Great Recession. But the report isn't that bad. In fact it was arguably good. For one thing, most of the collapse was due to a stunning fall in military spending. That's not good for GDP, but it doesn't reflect the real underlying strength of the economy. And it's mostly due to war drawdown. That's a good thing for everyone! There was also a big decline due to a reversal of big inventory buildups. ††††† The change in real private inventories subtracted 1.27 percentage points from the fourth-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.73 percentage point to the third-quarter change.† Private businesses increased inventories $20.0 billion in the fourth quarter, following increases of $60.3 billion in the third and $41.4 billion in the second. Seeing a decline in inventory buildups isn't that big of a deal really. This number always goes back and forth. What's key is that the numbers that really reflect the strength of the economy were much better. Personal consumption, fixed investment, and equipment/software all grew nicely. This is the real economy humming along. †† Real personal consumption expenditures increased 2.2 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with an increase of 1.6 percent in the third.† Durable goods increased 13.9 percent, compared with an increase of 8.9 percent.† Nondurable goods increased 0.4 percent, compared with an increase of 1.2 percent.† Services increased 0.9 percent, compared with an increase of 0.6 percent.††††† †† Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 8.4 percent in the fourth quarter, in contrast to a decrease of 1.8 percent in the third.† Nonresidential structures decreased 1.1 percent; it was unchanged in the third quarter.† Equipment and software increased 12.4 percent in the fourth quarter, in contrast to a decrease of 2.6 percent in the third.† Real residential fixed investment increased 15.3 percent, compared with an increase of 13.5 percent So, less war, more business investment. This was a good report. For more on today's GDP report, see here &gt;
YouTubeQ4 GDP unexpectedly fell 0.1 percent. Economists were looking for a 1.1 percent rate of growth. U.S. futures, which were flat ahead of the report are now down. Dow futures are down 22 points.¬† S&amp;P futures are down 3. Click Here For Full Coverage Of The GDP Report &gt;
Why did GDP fall in Q4? Blame lower government spending, specifically military spending. Basically, this was military drawdown. From the report: Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 15.0 percent in the fourth quarter, in contrast to an increase of 9.5 percent in the third.¬† National defense decreased 22.2 percent, in contrast to an increase of 12.9 percent.¬† Nondefense increased 1.4 percent, compared with an increase of 3.0 percent.¬† Real state and local government consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 0.7 percent, in contrast to an increase of 0.3 percent. Click here for more on the full report &gt;
Pete Souza/Official White House photoThe advance estimate for fourth-quarter U.S. GDP is out. The economy contracted 0.1 percent in Q4 versus economists' consensus expectations of a 1.1 percent expansion. Personal consumption growth came in at 2.2 percent ‚Äì slightly higher than consensus estimates of 2.1 percent ‚Äì but was driven largely by a 13.9 percent advance in the consumption of durable goods. Government spending was the largest driver of the economic contraction in the fourth quarter, subtracting 1.33 percentage points from Q4 GDP growth and falling 6.6 percent. Federal spending fell 15.0 percent, led by a 22.2 percent drop in defense spending. Federal spending on nondefense items was actually up 1.4 percent. State and local spending fell 0.7 percent. The drawdown in private inventories was the second culprit behind the contraction, subtracting 1.27 percentage points from Q4 GDP growth after adding 0.73 percentage points to Q3 GDP growth. However, fixed business investment surged 9.7 percent after advancing only 0.9 percent in Q3. The investment surge added 1.18 percentage points to Q4 GDP growth. While personal consumption expenditures were the biggest positive contributor to Q4 GDP growth, adding 1.53 percentage points, they were driven largely by the spike in consumption of durable goods, up 13.9 percent from Q3. Consumption of nondurable goods was only up 0.4 percent while consumption of services was up 0.9 percent. Exports fell 5.7 percent while imports retreated 3.2 percent. Net trade subtracted 0.81 percentage points from Q4 GDP growth. The GDP Price Index came in at 0.6 percent ‚Äì below expectations ‚Äì and core PCE came in at 0.9 percent, right in line with expectations. Below are highlights from the release: Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and services produced by labor and property¬†located in the United States -- decreased at an annual rate of 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012¬†(that is, from the third quarter to the fourth quarter), according to the "advance" estimate released by the¬†Bureau of Economic Analysis. In the third quarter, real GDP increased 3.1 percent. The Bureau emphasized that the fourth-quarter advance estimate released today is based on¬†source data that are incomplete or subject to further revision by the source agency (see the box on page 4¬†and the "Comparisons of Revisions to GDP" on page 5). The "second" estimate for the fourth quarter,¬†based on more complete data, will be released on February 28, 2013. The decrease in real GDP in the fourth quarter primarily reflected negative contributions from¬†private inventory investment, federal government spending, and exports that were partly offset by¬†positive contributions from personal consumption expenditures (PCE), nonresidential fixed investment,¬†and residential fixed investment. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, decreased. The downturn in real GDP in the fourth quarter primarily reflected downturns in private¬†inventory investment, in federal government spending, in exports, and in state and local government¬†spending that were partly offset by an upturn in nonresidential fixed investment, a larger decrease in¬†imports, and an acceleration in PCE. Final sales of computers added 0.15 percentage point to the fourth-quarter change in real GDP¬†after adding 0.11 percentage point to the third-quarter change. Motor vehicle output added 0.04¬†percentage point to the fourth-quarter change in real GDP after subtracting 0.25 percentage point from¬†the third-quarter change. Click here for the full release &gt;
On that day, airborne particulate matter smaller than 2.5 microns in diameter (PM 2.5) reached 886 micrograms per cubic meter, about 35 times the guideline set by the World Health Organization. These particulates contain ìsulfate, nitrates, ammonia, sodium chloride, carbon, mineral dust, and waterî that form a ìcomplex mixture of solid and liquid particles of organic and inorganic substances.î They contribute to cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, and lung cancer. Mortality in polluted cities exceeds that ìin relatively cleaner cities by 15ñ20%.î The WHO estimated in 2007 that 656,000 Chinese died of air pollution every year, and another 95,600 from water pollution. Surely, this hasnít gotten any better since. Among the culprits: coal consumption. It has been on an uninterrupted tear since 2000 as China built a phenomenal number of coal-fired power plants (users of steam coal) and as it expanded its steel and iron industries (users of metallurgical coal). Bubble projects, overcapacity, construction of ghost cities, motor vehicles that turn the exploding net of roads and highways into clogged parking lots.... The excesses are everywhere. And power generating capacity from 2005-2011 doubled, of which 80%ódespite efforts to diversifyóstill comes from coal. China consumed 1.5 billion tons of coal in 2000, or 28% of total world consumption. By 2011, according to a just released report by the US Energy Information Agency, coal consumption had jumped 153% to 3.8 billion tons, amounting to 47% of total coal consumption in the world. Demand had increased an average of 9% per year! If the China bubble doesnít accidentally get pricked in the interim, the country will consume more coal in 2013 than the rest of the world combined. In that ìrest of the world,î however, coal consumption has had a hard time, increasing only 1% on average per year over the 12-year period. Fingers are pointing at the US, once the largest coal market, until China came along. Much of the coal-consuming iron and steel industries in the US have migrated across the Pacific, and coal as a fuel for power generation has been on a long structural decline [read... Natural Gas And The Brutal Dethroning of King†Coal]. The numbers are epic. China has more power generating capacity than any other country. In addition to being by far the largest consumer of coal, China is also the largest producer and has the third-largest coal reserves. Despite these superlatives, it was only the fourth-largest consumer of natural gas in 2011, though consumption jumped 50% from 2009. Nuclear power, with 15 reactors on line as of mid-2012, provides only a tiny portion of total power generation, but 26 (!) reactors are under construction [here is my article†about its sideshow: Blowing Up: The Transfer Of French Nuclear Technology To†China]. And renewables? Minuscule. But growing in leaps and bounds. As these alternatives are desperately trying to gain critical mass, coal consumption will continue to growóand the pollution record of January 12, as horrid as it was, will turn out to be just another line item on a long list of surpassed records. The ìBlackest Dayî is still in the future. While we on the West Coast get to breathe the airborne crap that makes it across the Pacific, there are opportunities for the US in Chinaís coal-fired bubble economy: coal exports. In 2012, the US exported an estimated 125 million tons of coal. It broke the prior record set in 1981 and was more than double the level of 2009. However, coal production in the US still declined. Itís tough out there. Despite the frenetic growth in coal consumption in China and certain other parts of Asia, the US exported much more coal to ... Europe! Coal has been very competitive in Europe where natural-gas prices are so high that land-locked producers in the US get water in their eyes when they think about it. In countries like Germany and Belgium that were once coal mining bastions, coal production (and consumption) has been in free-fall. So US producers were able to export 42 million tons to Europe. To Asia, they shipped only 23 million tonsóbut this too is on the upswing. Even, if in a few years, people in Beijing are trying to figure out how to breathe the air outside. To supply its bubble economy with raw materials and fossil fuels, regardless of the consequences, China has embarked on an all-out resource grab, in every direction. Its tentacles spread far and wide. Oil is on top of the list. Hence the moves in Iraq, where turmoil has created opportunities. Read.... It Wasnít Supposed To Be This Way: Chinese Oil Companies Apparent Victors in Post-Saddam Iraq.
Aimee Groth, Business Insider ADP jobs report comes in at 192K, ahead of the 165K that were expected. This is up from a downwardly revised 185K last month. Remember, this is only private sector payrolls. The one catch. Last month was revised down from 210K to 185K. Overall, market not moving too much. ----- † At 8:15 AM ET, we get the ADP jobs report. It's seen as an okay preview of the big Non-Farm Payrolls report that comes out on Friday. Analysts expect a reading of 165K, down from 215K last time. Remember, this is only private-sector payrolls, so government layoffs don't change anything.
Yahoo Finance There has been much frustration and outrage among two groups of investors in recent days--Apple bulls and Amazon bears. Apple reported a quarter that beat Wall Street's printed expectations--and the stock tanked. Amazon reported a quarter that mostly missed Wall Street's printed expectations--and the stock soared. Meanwhile, Apple's stock is trading at low multiple of 10-times earnings, and Amazon's stock is trading at an "infinite" price-earnings ratio. So what gives? Have investors gone insane? Only the future will tell us for sure whether the prices investors are currently paying for Apple and Amazon (and every other stock) are reasonable. And, unfortunately, no one yet knows what the future holds. But! Yahoo FinanceWe can at least review the stories that some sophisticated investors are telling themselves as they sell Apple and buy Amazon. The bearish Apple story is this: Bottom line, with Apple, investors see decelerating revenue growth, declining profit margins, and increasing competition and market saturation--all of which are worse than expected. The good news on Apple--and it is very good news--is that the stock now appears to be cheap. The bullish Amazon story, meanwhile, is this: This last point is the critical one: Some sophisticated investors believe that Amazon's profit margin will increase rapidly over the next couple of years. This, in turn, is expected to drive earnings growth that is far faster than revenue growth. Specifically, Amazon's earnings per share are expected to skyrocket from basically $0.00 in 2012 to about $5.00 in 2014. And that expected profit growth, which is expected to be driven by Amazon's expanding profit margin, has investors jazzed. Now, that said, even if Amazon earns $5 a share in 2014, the stock is still very expensive--nearly 60 times projected earnings. And Amazon's revenue growth is now decelerating, which investors normally hate. So, even though Amazon's profit margin is expected to expand rapidly over the next few years, I am surprised at the price that investors are willing to pay for Amazon. And I say that as an Amazon shareholder. (I've owned Amazon for the last 15 years--the first 10 of which were miserable. I'm an Apple shareholder, too, albeit indirectly. Apple is a healthy percentage of the index funds that I now swear by. With the exception of a handful of legacy positions from the 1990s--Amazon, for example--I don't own or trade individual stocks anymore.) The bottom line is that what many sophisticated investors look at is the direction of change. When things are getting better--when revenue growth is accelerating and margins are increasing--investors are often willing to ignore high valuations. When things are getting worse, meanwhile--when revenue growth is decelerating and margins are declining--even low valuations sometimes aren't enough to induce investors to buy. And the perception right now on Wall Street is that things are getting worse at Apple and better at Amazon. SEE ALSO: After A 35% Crash, Apple's Stock Looks Cheap
kohane* Investment bank bet against CIO in derivatives market * Bank said to have discussed merging opposing trade books * Opposing bets could fuel claim JPM is too big to manage NEW YORK, Jan 29 (Reuters) - There is a new twist in the London Whale trading scandal that cost JPMorgan Chase $6.2 billion in trading losses last year. Some of the firm's own traders bet against the very derivatives positions placed by its chief investment office, said three people familiar with the matter. The U.S. Senate Permanent Committee on Investigations, which launched an inquiry into the trading loss last fall, is looking into the how different divisions of the bank wound up on opposite sides of the same trade, said one of the people familiar with the matter. The committee is expected to release a report on its investigation in the next few weeks. The people familiar with the situation did not comment on the dollar value of the opposing trades placed by JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co's investment bank traders, which was much smaller than the total positions put on by the CIO. The intra-bank trading was not mentioned in a 129-page report JPMorgan released on Jan. 16, which chronicled some of the bank's risk management failures. The scandal has led to a number of management changes at JPMorgan and has sullied CEO Jamie Dimon's image as a hands-on risk manager. Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to comment on the investment bank's trading positions. A spokeswoman for the Senate committee, led by Michigan Sen. Carl Levin, a Democrat, declined to comment on its investigation. It was widely known that a group of about eight credit-focused hedge funds, such as BlueMountain Capital Management and Saba Capital Management, were on the other side of the trades that JPMorgan's London-based Whale team made on an index tied to corporate default rates. But the role JPMorgan's own investment bank may have played in the messy unwinding of the derivatives trade has not come out until now. One of the three people familiar with the matter claimed that JPMorgan managers discussed merging the two sets of trades in an attempt to offset some of the CIO's losses. Those talks ended about a month before Bloomberg News first reported the CIO trades on April 5 last year, the source said. JPMorgan's Lemkau said that this "never came up in our exhaustive internal investigation." Last July, the bank fired the three London-based traders in the CIO most closely tied to the trading, including Bruno Iksil, dubbed the London Whale by hedge fund traders because of the size of the trades he placed for the CIO. Two people familiar with Iksil and his boss, Javier Martin-Artajo, said the two CIO employees complained about the investment bank's actions in the spring of 2012, accusing its traders of deliberately trying to move the market against the CIO by leaking information on its position to hedge funds. Iksil made his complaint to a member of JPMorgan's compliance department, one of the people said. But those same sources said they had not seen any evidence to support that claim and JPMorgan's Lemkau declined to comment on the allegation. Martin-Artajo's lawyer did not respond to a request for comment. A lawyer for Bruno Iksil declined to comment. It is not clear when the investment bank traders and the London Whale team became aware they were taking opposing sides on a trade that involved index linked to credit default swaps sold on corporate debt. JPMorgan's internal report did note that, in deciding how to handle the CIO trades, JPMorgan eventually applied a valuation methodology from the investment bank and not the one the chief investment officer had been using. Federal authorities are currently investigating whether some employees in the CIO deliberately used misleading valuations to try to conceal some of the losses. It is not uncommon for large banks to hold opposing positions in the same market. That is sometimes done as a way of hedging a position or because different trading desks formulate opposing views about a trade. Still, the revelation that the bank was taking two sides on the same trade also is likely to rekindle the debate about whether banks such as JPMorgan Chase are too big to manage and should be scaled back. "The big banks have always had a habit of pitting people in the bank against each other," said Charles Geisst, a finance professor at Manhattan College and a former banker. "When it's discovered it's not taken well." A group of JPMorgan shareholders led by the AFL-CIO labor federation is pushing for a vote at JPMorgan's annual shareholders meeting this spring on reducing it's overall size by spinning off one or more of its businesses. They cite the big trading losses in the London Whale scandal as evidence the bank is too big to manage. (Reporting By Emily Flitter.; Editing by Matthew Goldstein, Martin Howell and Andre Grenon) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
ferdart via FlickrEnergy consulting firm PFC has released its annual ranking of the world's most valuable energy companies. With oil and gas prices relatively flat from a year ago nearly every company's value either fell or flatlined.¬† Just two of the top-10 companies saw positive growth, and neither were in the U.S. The combined market capitalization of the PFC Energy top 50 was $3.5 trillion, a slight 0.8% decline from 12 months previously. We ranked the 20 biggest.
Some less-than-celebratory news out of Germany: beer sales fell to a record low in 2012. The table below from the German Federal Statistical Office shows that total beer sales fell to 96.5 million hecto-liters in 2012, the lowest level since reunification. Sales contracted 1.8 percent from 2011, the fastest pace of decline since 2009. German Federal Statistical Office The Federal Statistical Office says that beer mixes ‚Äì beer mixed with lemonade, cola, fruit juice, and other non-alcoholic additives ‚Äì were 4.5 percent of total beer sales in 2012. Click here for the full release &gt; (h/t @russian_market)
APGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
NTSB Tesla and SpaceX founder Elon Musk says the batteries that have burst into flame on Boeing's new Dreamliners are "fundamentally unsafe." Musk's electric car company, Tesla, specifically designed its batteries to prevent this problem. In an email to the aviation publication Flightglobal, Musk said the following: "Unfortunately, the pack architecture supplied to Boeing is inherently unsafe. Large cells without enough space between them to isolate against the cell-to-cell thermal domino effect means it is simply a matter of time before there are more incidents of this nature." Flightglobal's Zach Rosenberg explains this in more detail: Both Boeing and Tesla use batteries fueled by lithium cobalt oxide, which is among the most energy-dense and flammable chemistries of lithium-ion batteries on the market. While Boeing elected to use a battery with a grouping of eight large cells, Tesla's batteries contain thousands of smaller cells that are independently separated to prevent fire in a single cell from harming the surrounding ones. "Moreover, when thermal runaway occurs with a big cell, a proportionately larger amount of energy is released and it is very difficult to prevent that energy from then heating up the neighboring cells and causing a domino effect that results in the entire pack catching fire," says Musk. "They [Boeing] believe they have this under control, although I think there is a fundamental safety issue with the architecture of a pack with large cells. It is much harder to maintain an even temperature in a large cell, as the distance from the center of the cell to the edge is much greater, which increases the risk of thermal runaway." Musk has offered to help Boeing fix the battery problem, and his offer has been rebuffed. A professor of electrical engineering at MIT confirmed to Flightglobal that Musk's assessment of Boeing's batteries is sound. Meanwhile, 787s remain grounded, and there's no word on when they may be allowed to fly again. More at Flightglobal &gt;
We mentioned earlier that the Euro has been on a jaw-dropping tear. That continues today. Yesterday the euro was around 1.34. Today it's at 1.355. Why is it going nuts? We chatted with analyst Lorcan Roche Kelly of Trend Macrolytics to get his take. Well the big picture is that the ECB is the only central bank that's acting relatively "tight" right now. The Fed will be on hold for awhile. Japan is doing new easing. The Bank of England is likely to do more under Mark Carney. You get the picture. The specific story today that's got people excited has to do with the ECB's LTRO operations. Remember at the beginning of 2012, the ECB held a bank-saving operation, where they gave banks cheap loans for up to 3 years in order to smooth the crisis. Well things have really calmed down, and now banks are repaying their LTRO loans, in part to show that they're strong and can stand on their own two feet. About $137 billion of the LTRO loans is being paid back. But today there was a 3-month LTRO operation, and the thinking was that maybe these banks who were paying back their 3 year loans early would roll into 3-month loans. But that wasn't the case. As you can see here, just about $3.7 billion is being allotted in this operation. ECB So those banks paying back their long-term loans aren't just rolling back into short-term loans. They're actually cutting their dependence on the ECB more generally, which is an excuse for euro bullishness. The LTRO paydown will cause the ECB balance sheet to shrink (!) next week. A shrinking balance sheet is rare in this day and age, but as Roche Kelly notes this shouldn't really be characterized as a tightening, since the ECB's policy stance remains the same. If banks need money, it's no more expensive than it was before, so there shouldn't be any real-world economic constraint by this balance sheet shrinkage. For more on the rallying euro, see here &gt;
†January US consumer confidence from the Conference Board came in materially below consensus yesterday Reuters: - Consumer confidence dropped in January to its lowest level in more than a year as Americans were more pessimistic about the economic outlook and their financial prospects, according to a private sector report released on Tuesday.  The Conference Board, an industry group, said its index of consumer attitudes fell to 58.6 from an upwardly revised 66.7 in December, falling short of economists' expectations for 64. It was the lowest level since November 2011.. At the same time US equity markets continue to march higher. In fact the divergence between consumer sentiment and the stock market has become quite pronounced and is unlikely to be sustainable over the longer term. Ultimately, weak sentiment will result in lower sales. 
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. economy likely grew at its slowest pace in nearly two years in the fourth quarter as businesses added less stock to their warehouses and government spending fizzled, setting it up for a difficult start in 2013. Gross domestic product probably expanded at a 1.1 percent annual rate, braking sharply from a 3.1 percent clip in the third quarter, according to a Reuters poll of economists. That would mark the weakest growth pace since the first quarter of 2011 and it would show the economy entering the new year with little momentum. However, an anticipated pick-up in consumer spending and a rebound in business investment should give the recovery a fighting chance even as Washington tightens its belt. "The fact that GDP could come in above 1 percent is pretty respectable given all the headwinds and the challenges the economy faced in the final three months of the year," said Ryan Sweet, a senior economist at Moody's Analytics in West Chester Pennsylvania. The Commerce Department will release its advance fourth-quarter GDP estimate at 8:30 a.m EST. The data will be published as officials at the Federal Reserve wrap-up a two-day meeting. Though some of the factors holding back growth were temporary, the report is not expected to give officials at the U.S. central bank any reason to ease up on their ultra-accommodative policy stance. Economists say a growth pace in excess of 3 percent would be needed over a sustained period to significantly lower high unemployment. Since the recession ended in mid-2009, the economy has struggled to hold above a 2 percent growth pace. The economy was slammed by a monster storm in late October, which caused extensive damage along the East Coast and may have cut around 0.5 percentage point off fourth quarter growth. The recovery also had to deal with uncertainty over the so-called fiscal cliff of scheduled tax hikes and budget cuts, which hurt confidence even though data suggests that households and businesses largely shrugged off the worries. SOME BRIGHT SIGNS Businesses, caught with too much inventory in their warehouses in the third quarter, appear to have slowed their stock building in the final three months of the year. That slowdown could cut as much as a full percentage point from fourth-quarter GDP growth, economists estimate. Government spending is expected to have been a drag on growth as well, as defense outlays reverse after a big burst. Government spending is seen contracting at a rate of at least 3 percent after a gain of 3.9 percent in the prior three months. Export weakness is also expected to have weighed on growth. Exports have been hampered by a recession in Europe, a cooling Chinese economy and storm and strike-related port disruptions. But not all the details in the report will be bleak. Importantly, consumer and business spending are expected to show some strength. Consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of economic activity, is seen accelerating from the prior quarter's 1.6 percent growth pace, while business investment is expected to rebound after its first drop in 1-1/2 years. That should leave a measure of domestic demand, which excludes inventories and trade, quickening a bit from the third quarter's 1.9 percent rate. "Considering all of the uncertainty last quarter associated with the election and the fiscal cliff, a steady pace of underlying demand speaks volumes about the economy's resilience," said Joseph LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. "There is good reason to expect the pace of underlying demand will accelerate," he said. The housing market was likely another bright spot. Residential construction is expected to have gained further momentum after notching a 13.5 percent growth pace in the third quarter. Homebuilding is seen adding to growth last year for the first time since 2005 and its continued recovery should help ensure the economy remains on a modest growth path. (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani, editing by Tim Ahmann) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters
Wikimedia CommonsThe 'currency wars' meme continues to spread. To refresh, what this phrase means is countries are trying to weaken their currencies to boost exports. The phrase came about in 2010, when the Brazilian finance minister said that the Fed's QEII program was the start of a currency war. In a new note out, Morgan Stanley's Manoj Pradhan argues that there wasn't a currency war then... but that there might be one now. It starts out with a classic line. Andy Warhol famously said ‚ÄúIn the future, everyone will be world-famous for 15 minutes‚Äù. Guido Mantega, Brazil‚Äôs finance minister, has clearly outperformed that benchmark. His concern in 2010 that the Fed was starting a ‚Äúcurrency war‚Äù, using QE to weaken the US dollar against EM currencies, resonated with many in the emerging world and many in developed economies too. Pradhan goes onto argue that Mantega was wrong. QE was about defeating deflation and boosting asset prices. It was not about weakening the dollar. But while there might not have been a currency war in 2010, there might be one today, thanks to Japan. Japanese policy has changed the game: Japan‚Äôs policy-makers now want to end deflation and reinvigorate investment. Given the export-orientation of Japan‚Äôs economy, the role of the yen is likely to be much stronger for Japan than the dollar is for the US economy. This creates the risk of bringing into the fray the one, all-important element that was missing before ‚Äì competitive depreciation. Any further monetary expansion by a major central bank may now prompt Japan‚Äôs policy-makers to take retaliatory action to weaken the yen. If they do, EM currency appreciation would be collateral damage. Already we've seen German leaders complain about Japanese monetary policy, which is a sign that they're irritated by the effects of a rival exporter weakening its currency so much. Meanwhile, the Euro surges, as the ECB sits idly by. Will the ECB switch back into easing mode to counter?
YouTubeIn his note last night, BTIG's Dan Greenhaus reflects on yesterday's rally, and the overall state of the gains. †As for equities, it was obviously a good day. While the S&amp;P 500 was up just 0.50%, the index traded higher nearly all day. While several companies that reported were down hard (BMC, STX, F), several others were up double digits (VLO, DHI). And for all the focus on AAPLís effect on the broader market, the fact is that since topping out in mid September, AAPL is down 35% but the S&amp;P 500 is up 3.2%. Of course, BRK is up 9.3%, JNJ is up 8.5% and PFE is up nearly 15%. So rather than the NBA (nothing but AAPL) market, this is more like the MTA (more than AAPL) market.
Bloomberg TVLater this morning, we'll get the advanced reading of Q4 GDP. Consensus is calling for 1.0 percent growth. In his morning research round-up, UBS global economist Paul Donovan notes that the firm expects GDP to come in way below consensus. Here are the bullets from today's round-up:
The euro is just on such a tear. New highs almost every day. Via FinViz, check out this chart of the Euro against the dollar going back to August. FinViz The blame seems to lie at the feet of the ECB. Says SocGen's Kit Juckes in a note today: The Kiwi's inability to benefit reflects concern that sexy currencies (AUD, NZD, KRW, MXN, CAD) have rallied so far against the US dollar that policy-makers will at the very least try and slow them down by expressing concern at valuations. The exception, at least for now, is the Euro. The ECB is doing nothing to talk down the currency and everything necessary to send it higher. There's something very Japanese about what's going on in Europe. The economy is weak and arguably not recovering at all, exporters are increasingly getting frustrated by euro strength, and yet the ECB is doing nothing. In fact most of the talk is about repayment of LTRO loans (quasi de-easing). This is a recipe for an unwanted Euro surge.
We got a straight-up ugly piece of US economic data yesterday: Consumer confidence dove several points in January. Bloomberg, Business Insider Why are consumers upset? Haven't they heard that all the big fears are lifting? The big worry is that it has something to do with the expiration of the payroll tax. People see they're taking home less each weak; they get less confident. It wouldn't be that weird. And a new study that came out yesterday just happens to compound the fear. The paper, from Grant Graziani, Wilbert van der Klaauw, and Basit Zafar, at the New York Fed (via WSJ) says that the payroll tax cut in 2011 had a much bigger economic boost than would have been anticipated: This paper presents new survey evidence on workersí response to the 2011 payroll tax cuts. While workers intended to spend 10 to 18 percent of their tax-cut income, they reported actually spending 28 to 43 percent of the funds. This is higher than estimates from studies of recent tax cuts, and arguably a consequence of the design of the 2011 tax cuts. The shift to greater consumption than intended is largely unexplained by presentbias or unanticipated shocks, and is likely a consequence of mental accounting. We also use data from a complementary survey to understand the heterogeneous tax-cut response. Bottom line, the payroll tax cut of 2011 had a surprise positive shock. Now we see that reversing and at the same time, consumer confidence has fallen. It's just one datapoint, but it needs to be watched.
Chris Trotman/Getty ImagesPretty important day economics-wise. Via Calculated Risk, here are the three events. ‚Ä¢ At 8:15 AM, The ADP Employment Report for January will be released. This report is for private payrolls only (no government). The consensus is for 172,000 payroll jobs added in January. Even with the new methodology, the report still¬†hasn't been¬†that useful in predicting the BLS report. ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM, the Q4 GDP report will be released. This is the advance (first) release from the BEA. The consensus is that real GDP increased 1.0% annualized in Q4. ‚Ä¢ Around 11:15 AM, the FOMC Meeting Announcementwill be released. No significant changes are expected. We'll be covering each LIVE.
Jay Yarow/Business InsiderJapan had another insane session last night. The Nikkei surged 2.28%, as the yen tanked some more. The dollar is back above 91 against the yen. This kind of move is becoming commonplace. China also had a decent move, gaining 1%. As for the rest, it's quiet. Europe is flat. US futures aren't going anywhere. There's some big data in the US today: GDP, the ADP jobs report, and then later in the day a Fed decision.
Guang Niu/Getty ImagesIn nearly every public speech since the leadership handover, Li Keqiang, who will take over as premier in March, has spoke about the importance of urbanization as a new growth engine. Societe Generale's Wei Yao however writes that the impact of urbanization has been "misunderstood and overstated by the market". For one, Yao writes that the impact of urbanization on China's productivity growth is decreasing, just like the the direction of demographics on labor force growth. "For an emerging economy to catch up, moving farmers to manufacturing plants is a key source of productivity gain in the early stage. Chinaís experience in the past three decades was a typical example. The 10-year average growth rate of Chinaís urban population growth was 4.8% in the 1980s, 4.2% in the 1990s and 3.8% in the 2000s. The impact of this rapid urbanization on total factor productivity (TFP) was particularly pronounced. We estimate that this source accounted for about 30% of the impressive TFP growth. "However, urban population growth should also decelerate rapidly in the current decade. The UN projected Chinaís urban population to grow 2.5% in the 2010s, 1.3ppt slower than in the previous decade. As a result, Chinaís labor productivity growth, which averaged 8% in the 1990s and 9.5% in the 2000s, will normalize lower as well." Others share this view. Peter Orszag, vice chairman at Citigroup, has pointed this out before. He said China is near its Lewis turning point i.e. the point at which the shift of people from agriculture to manufacturing does not lead to productivity gains. "If China is at or near its Lewis turning point, Xi will face an extraordinary economic challenge, with far-reaching geopolitical ramifications." he wrote. Markets have been responsive to policymakers' comments on urbanization and encouragement of infrastructure investment. But Yao writes that this could be a huge impediment to its future urbanization and that Beijing needs to rethink its strategy to focus on: Remember China had been trying to shift from export and investment driven economic growth, to domestic demand growth. This focus on urbanization could stall Beijing's long-term efforts on developing its growth model. SEE ALSO: GMO - China Is Marching Towards A Credit Crisis &gt;
