REUTERS THEIR impeccable city is supposed to be so law-abiding that policemen are rarely seen on patrol. Imagine the shock, then, when Singaporeans woke up on December 9th to learn of running street battles in the city centre the night before. Singapore had not seen a riot since 1969. The trouble started when an apparently drunk construction worker from south India, Sakthivel Kumaravelu, was turfed off a crowded bus after making a scene. Next, the bus driver turned a corner and heard a loud thud. Mr Kumaravelu was under the wheel of his bus. He died instantly. It happened in Little India, a city quarter where thousands of South Asian migrant workers gather every Sunday, often their only day off, before being bused back to dormitories on the fringes of the island. Very soon after the accident as many as 400 workers had massed and proceeded through the streets as a rampaging mob for about two hours. In clashes with police, 27 officers were injured, along with firefighters and paramedics. Police cars were overturned, and an ambulance was set ablaze. Riot police and a contingent of Gurkha soldiers put an end to things. Some 27 migrant workers have so far been arrested and charged over the riot, with thousands more interviewed. Those convicted could face as long as seven years in jail, as well as a caning. Booze seems to have fuelled the affray, and as a stopgap a ban on the sale and consumption of alcohol in Little India will apply this weekend. But alcohol alone would not have turned hundreds of usually peaceful workers into a belligerent mob. The prime minister, Lee Hsien Loong, promises a committee to look into the reasons for the riot. It will need to look at the sometimes dire state of migrant workers' rights and working conditions as a contributing factor. Singapore relies heavily on cheap migrant labour, with about 350,000 workers in the booming construction industry alone. The rules are strict (no marrying Singaporeans, for instance). The work is sometimes dangerous, and workers can be poorly paid or fleeced by unscrupulous agents. Singapore's huge influx of migrant workers is a hot political issue. Singaporeans complain that they are taking local jobs. In response, the government has ordered companies to hire fewer foreigners. This riot will doubtless feed into that debate. Mr Lee has already appealed for people not to let the event "tarnish our views of the foreign-worker community here." Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
KingWu/Getty <U+FFFC><U+FFFC>Images OF THE many thousands of usually small protests that break out in China every year, few relate to national policy. Many consider the risk of challenging the central government too great. But the entrance to the agriculture ministry is a gathering spot for occasional demonstrations. Their complaints are about an issue dear to the ministry: genetically modified (GM) crops. At one protest this year, a group chanted slogans calling for the eradication of "traitors" who support GM food. Debate over the technology is escalating, putting the government in a bind. Public unease about genetic modification is common around the world. In China, alongside rising concerns about food safety, it has taken on a strongly political hue. Chinese anti-GM activists often describe their cause as patriotic, aimed not just at avoiding what they regard as the potential harm of tinkering with nature, but at resisting control of China's food supply by America through American-owned biotech companies and their superior technology. Conspiracy theories about supposed American plots to use dodgy GM food to weaken China abound online. They are even believed by some in the government. In October an official video made for army officers was leaked on the internet and widely watched until censors scrubbed it. "America is mobilising its strategic resources to promote GM food vigorously," its narrator grimly intoned. "This is a means of controlling the world by controlling the world's food production." Peng Guangqian, a retired major-general and prominent think-tanker, echoed these sentiments in an article published by official media in August. He said America might be setting a "trap". The result, he said, could be "far worse than the Opium War" between Britain and China in the 1840s that Chinese historians regard as the beginning of a "century of humiliation" at the hands of foreign powers. China already uses plenty of GM products. More than 70% of its cotton is genetically modified. Most of the soyabeans consumed in China are imported, and most of those imports are GM (often from America). The technology is widely used for growing papayas. The government wants to develop home-grown GM varieties and has spent heavily on research, eager to maintain self-sufficiency in food. Officials see GM crops as a way of boosting yields on scarce farmland. In 2009 China granted safety certificates for two GM varieties of rice and one of maize. This raised expectations that it might become the first country in the world to use GM technology in the production of a main staple. But further approvals needed for commercial growing have yet to be granted. To the consternation of GM supporters, the safety certificates for the rice are due to expire next August. Public opinion is a big reason for the delay. Environmental groups in China have rarely succeeded in changing government policy. Officials have long treated such NGOs with suspicion and made it hard for them to register or set up offices in more than one place. The only NGO in China that devotes much time to the GM issue is an international one: Greenpeace. But the anti-GM lobby has thrived, thanks not least to the adoption of the cause by conservatives in the establishment as well as by informal groups of diehard Maoists who see America as a threat. To the Maoists, opposing GM food is an urgent priority. Hardly a speech is made by one of them without mentioning it. "I support Mao Zedong thought," shouted one of the protesters outside the agriculture ministry. The police usually treat them with kid gloves; unlike others who protest in public, they are ardent supporters of Communist Party rule. And on this issue, at least, the Maoists enjoy much sympathy; public anxiety about food safety has soared in recent years thanks to a series of scares. Of 100,000 respondents to an online poll in November, nearly 80% said they opposed GM technology. Since a change of China's leadership a year ago, however, supporters of GM food inside the government and among the public have begun fighting back. In October Chinese media reported that 61 senior academics, in a rare concerted effort, had petitioned the government to speed up the commercialisation of GM crops. The Ministry of Agriculture was also said to be preparing a new public-education campaign on the merits of GM food (it issued a swift rebuttal of General Peng's remarks, saying GM foods certified in China were just as safe as any other food). Since May Huazhong Agricultural University in the central city of Wuhan has organised nearly 30 public events promoting GM rice, including, in October, the serving of porridge made from it to about 300 people. One of the recent petitioners, Li Ning of China Agricultural University, laments that the issue remains ensnared by nationalist sentiment. Among students, he says, "lots of them wonder how to express their patriotism; people say opposing GM is patriotic, so they say, 'Fine, I'll oppose GM.'" He says the scientists have not received an official answer to their appeal, but he is heartened at least by their new willingness to speak out. "Previously there was only one voice, and it was anti-GM. Now we've entered a period of acute antagonism." The government, it appears, is waiting for the dust to settle before it lets the paddy fields fill with the controversial strains. That may take some time. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
REUTERS/Parivartan SharmaIT ALL began with a white envelope. Inside, a letter from the provost of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology offered three young economists at MIT $100,000 to spend as they wanted (those were the days). Two of them, Esther Duflo and Abhijit Banerjee, used the money to set up an organisation to run "randomised control trials" (RCTs), an experimental technique a bit like drugs trials, but for economics. To test if, say, boosting teachers' pay improved educational outcomes, an RCT would take a collection of comparable schools, randomly assign higher wages to some teachers but not others, and see what happens. The organisation, called J-PAL (to give it its full title, the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab), has just celebrated its tenth anniversary. Its methods have transformed development economics. When J-PAL started in 2003, RCTs were regarded as wacky. Critics said that doing a trial was like putting people in a cage and experimenting on them. They pointed out that you cannot conduct randomised trials for big macroeconomic questions ("What happens if we devalue the currency by 50%?") because there can be no control group. They conceded RCTs might generate useful nuggets of evidence (raising teachers' wages in India, for example, did surprisingly little to improve learning). But they argued that evidence from such trials would always remain small-scale, tied to a specific context and not be useful beyond it. Ten years on, few of those criticisms have stood up to scrutiny. RCTs have entered the mainstream. J-PAL has conducted 440 of them (it started with five). The World Bank runs RCTs. So do regional bodies like the Inter-American Development Bank. Even governments deploy them: Indonesia used one to test whether identity cards would improve the delivery of subsidised rice to the poor, the largest anti-poverty programme in the country (they did). Techniques for designing and doing trials have improved, with more accurate measurements and more reliable ways of ensuring that samples are random and not merely arbitrary. Trials are bigger. A recent one took place throughout the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh, which has a larger population than Germany. Trials are now investigating questions previously thought off-limits to RCTs, such as labour-market policies or policing. J-PAL did a trial in half the cities in France to determine whether job-training encouraged employment growth overall or just boosted the prospects of trainees at the expense of the untrained. (Answer: before 2007, it helped everyone; afterwards, it redistributed jobs rather than creating them.) As the number and scope of trials have grown, the accumulation of detail has started to generate broader insights. Take education. J-PAL ran trials on many questions, from the effect of remedial classes in India and Ghana (enormous) to what happens if you double the number of teachers in Kenya (not much). One conclusion kept cropping up: the biggest improvements to educational outcomes occur when you teach children things they are capable of learning. That sounds like a statement of the obvious. But it is quite different from the view of (say) the OECD, a club mainly of rich countries, which runs influential studies on mathematics and literacy among its members. The OECD thinks the quality of teachers matters most. J-PAL's finding also goes against the grain of what many parents believe: that the focus should be on the quality of the curriculum. In other areas, RCTs have revealed as much about what is not known as what is known. Microfinance, for example, does not turn the poor into entrepreneurs, as was hoped, but does make them better off: many use the tiny loans to buy television sets. It is not clear why. Poor people also buy too little preventive health care for themselves, even though the benefits are huge. RCTs show that if you charge a pittance for simple products such as bednets treated to combat malaria or water purification tablets, people do not buy them; the products have to be free. The common conclusion from such trials is that the poor's own decisions matter much more than was once thought. Even the poorest of the poor have tiny amounts of discretionary cash and their decisions about what to spend it on (bednets, for example) make a huge difference to development. This view of the poor is at odds with the one espoused by "Big Push" economists, such as Jeffrey Sachs of Columbia University, who argue that people are stuck in poverty, can do little for themselves and that development should therefore consist of providing the poor with benefits--like irrigation, roads and hospitals--that spring the poverty trap. But it is also at odds with critics of Big Push thinking. J-PAL's trials show not only that the poor's decisions are important but that they are sometimes bad (for example, their underinvestment in health). Critics of the Big Push, such as William Easterly of New York University, say the best way to help the poor is to stand back and stop messing up their lives. In contrast, J-PAL's trials imply that there is a role for outsiders to improve the decision-making of the poor by, say, improving information or incentives. Over the past ten years, randomised trials have changed hugely. They began as ways to provide hard evidence about what was actually happening. Now they have become techniques for testing ideas that cannot be investigated in any other way. (Are teachers or trained volunteers better at providing simple remedial lessons? Do a trial.) Over the next ten years they will change again. They are likely to get more ambitious still, use "big data", engage even more with governments and probably measure things that cannot now be tested (RCTs are already measuring cortisol levels as a way of judging how policies affect people's happiness). Who knows, their proponents might even find a way to apply them to the sweeping assertions of macroeconomists. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Feng Li / Getty The spectacular rise of the Pearl and Yangtze River deltas over the past several decades has inspired city leaders around the country to try and emulate their success by building up city clusters of their own. The national capital has proved to be no exception. For years, plans to develop a greater Beijing area were toyed with but never formalised. This may now finally come to pass. According to local media, a plan for the economic integration of Beijing, Tianjin and the surrounding province of Hebei may be announced early next year. The merits of centrally planned regional integration will be tested. During China's reform period in the late 1970s and early 1980s, emphasis was placed on labour-intensive manufacturing for export to boost growth. Special economic zones were established to attract much-needed capital, technology and management know-how. The resulting inflow of foreign direct investment ended up being a boon not only for core cities such as Shenzhen, but also for their surrounding areas. As cities like Guangzhou matured, the more polluting, lower-value-added industries within the core were pushed out, first to the suburbs and then to surrounding regions outside city borders, providing neighbouring cities with the opportunity to industrialise. A paper published in 2011 by the Japan Research Institute showed that the contribution of the core areas-defined as Shenzhen, Zhuhai and Guangzhou-to manufacturing sector added value in the Pearl River Delta (PRD) fell from 54.4% in 2005 to 50.4% in 2009. In the same period, the contribution from the outer-core areas-defined as Dongguan, Foshan and Zhongshan-rose from 34.8% to 37.4%. The paper also showed a shift toward services in the core. Seeing the success of city clusters in the Pearl and Yangtze River deltas, China's authorities now push city integration schemes in regional development plans. These plans are consistent with the country's fixation with "balanced and co-ordinated regional development", especially between core cities and surrounding smaller ones. Such attention was only paid to the national capital in the 2000s, however, as the economic void between the northern coastal area and the south-eastern coastal regions could no longer be ignored. There were steadily mounting concerns that Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei were all competing for industrial supremacy, with very little co-ordination between them. In 2004 the State Council (China's cabinet) set up a working group to draft a development plan. A draft report put together by a government think-tank, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, was completed in 2006. The plan called for the creation of a metropolitan area covering the municipal city of Beijing, Baodi and Wuqing districts and Ji county in Tianjin, and six cities in Hebei province: Zhangjiakou, Chengde, Baoding, Langfang, Tangshan and Qinhuangdao. After almost a decade and repeated revisions, the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei conurbation plan has yet to progress further. Lacking a suitable mechanism, the area remains very difficult to co-ordinate. Conflicts of interest between the three local governments abound, as they are unable to agree on their respective roles. When the initial draft was first put forward, key industries in all three areas were very similar, concentrated on steel, construction materials, cars and heavy machinery. This made any realignment of industry difficult. A final blueprint will require the involvement of various central government departments, as local leaders look unlikely to be able to design and manage the project themselves. The question of which Hebei cities should be included in the economic circle serves as another sticking point. At present, six cities are listed. However, the provincial authorities hope that more cities, such as Hengshui and Cangzhou, can be included, as they could then benefit from more economic support. Any plan is likely to prioritise Beijing-centred integration, as the capital continues to radiate into Hebei and Tianjin. Beijing's central business district, in the eastern part of the city, has been expanding further east towards Hebei. Some of Hebei's counties and cities have become de facto satellite towns of the capital; around 200,000 residents in Hebei's Xianghe county and Yanjiao town work in neighbouring Beijing. However, Tianjin is unwilling to take a back seat. The municipality, whose Binhai New Area has been given priority since 2006, aspires to develop as an economic centre in its own right. As discussions continue, events on the ground seem to be driving towards a final settlement. China's president, Xi Jinping, visited Tianjin in May and urged the three provinces to push forward with regional co-operation. Tianjin and Hebei set up a bilateral co-ordination group, with a vice-governor and a vice-mayor in charge, to "break institutional barriers". In August local media reported that a plan would be released by early 2014, and in September the State Council released an action plan for the prevention and control of air pollution, addressing Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei as one region. But even without a comprehensive plan, the process has already begun. At its simplest, the initial draft plan envisaged Beijing focusing on services, Tianjin providing port facilities and Hebei managing industry. This is already taking place, to a certain extent. Leading up to the 2008 Summer Olympics, Beijing worked hard to get rid of its older, highly polluting industries. More than 3,000 enterprises have relocated to the city's fringe districts since the 1990s, including some to Hebei. Shougang, a major steel company, closed its final Beijing production line in December 2010, effectively marking the end of a transition of heavy industry from Beijing to Hebei. In 2012 the capital's growth was driven primarily by services, led by the financial services, retail and information technology sectors. The question is then whether a centralised plan covering the three provinces will have much of a positive impact. One concern is that Hebei's relative poverty and underdevelopment will pose a drag on the two municipalities. Hebei has yet to develop the mass of suppliers that the PRD has built up to support its main industrial clusters. For example, 80% of the parts supplying the automotive industry in Beijing and Tianjin are manufactured outside the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei zone, mostly in the Yangtze River Delta industrial belt. This suggests that Hebei, the intended workshop for its urbanised neighbours, lacks the capabilities and capacity to deliver what they need. Furthermore, efforts to build up this capacity will be expensive. Directing people and business to certain areas requires the use of public resources, which would otherwise go to improving infrastructure and public services in existing metropolitan areas that are already in higher demand. Local leaders might do well to recall that the PRD was built on the back of market-oriented reforms, not a detailed plan. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
REUTERS/Rebecca CookFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Pensions Have Been Loading Up On Alternatives (ThinkAdvisor)  Public sector pension plans in Texas, North Carolina, California, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey have all started loading up on alternatives, writes Paula Aven Gladych in a ThinkAdvisor column. "Better performing state funds generally had more alternative investments," according to Cliffwater‚Äôs 2013 Report on State Pension Performance and Trends the report found. "In fact, the top-performing state pension plan over the last 10 years had the highest allocation to alternatives." Vern Sumnicht, CEO at iSectors LLC told ThinkAdvisor that alternatives have found favor with pensions because the offer opportunities that traditional stock and bond investments don't. But to make this work they have to keep their money in alternatives for 10 years at least.  Advisors Need To Help Their Clients With Their Money Baggage (The Wall Street Journal)  People have "money baggage," according Karen Ramsey, president of Seattle-based Ramsey &amp; Associates. And advisors need to help clients address this "because it can lead to sabotaging behavior that can keep a client from successfully saving for their future," she writes in a new WSJ column. "The most common themes that I've seen are that a client may feel they don't deserve money, there will never be enough, that money is bad, that they have to work hard and will never get ahead, that they can't depend on anyone else, or that money determines their self-worth." Advisors need to trace the roots of this behavior and once they realize this they can consciously choose another behavior. Clients should also make a note of their new way of thinking because it will reinforce the behavior.¬† Why Investors Shouldn't Worry About Municipal Bonds (AllianceBernstein Blog)  Detroit's bankruptcy and Illinois' pension overhaul has many investors second guessing municipal bonds. but Michael Brooks of AllianceBernstein thinks investors needn't worry. "Individual investors may feel anxious about Detroit‚Äôs fate, but it‚Äôs truly an anomaly, even though it‚Äôs a big one," Brooks wrote. The 10-year cumulative default rate for municipalities is just 0.1%, and only 13 filed for bankruptcy last year out of 90,000 units of government in the US." "Markets tend to ignore this information, but the fact is that the finances of most cities and states are improving along with the economy‚Äîand states are working to repair their problems. For example, more than 40 states have made changes to their pension systems to ease the pressure of large liabilities. We believe that the muni market is safe, and that news about troubled municipalities should be read in this context." Here's What Stocks Do When Interest Rates Are Rising (BlackRock)  Many are concerned about a rise in interest rates which Wall Street strategists warn, is coming, in 2014. While this could hurt bonds, stocks seem like a good option in the environment, according to BlackRock. "Most investors fear rising interest rates. But perhaps more than the others, bond investors fear the loss of portfolio value that may occur when interest rates rise. Which begs the question ‚Äì are there alternatives to bonds that might offer income and behave better in a rising rate environment? ‚Ä¶Indeed, global dividend stocks offer a compelling potential of income and outperformance in rising rate environments." BlackRock
National Weather ServiceHARTFORD, Conn. (AP) ‚Äî A snow and ice storm headed for the Northeast was expected to slow weekend travel by air, rail and highway and had utilities and airports on alert. The National Weather Service said six to 12 inches of snow was expected from Saturday to Sunday in most of Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Rhode Island. Areas north and west of New York City also could get eight inches or more. And sleet and freezing rain were expected. A saltwater solution applied to roads before storms won't work now because temperatures are too low and the saltwater would freeze, said Kevin Nursick, spokesman at the Connecticut Department of Transportation. However, crews have treated highways before recent snowfalls with salt, helping to keep snow from bonding. And the storm will not affect work day commutes. "The timing is pretty good coming on a weekend," Nursick said. Not so for retailers, who have less than two weeks before Christmas to clear their shelves and face the prospect of losing critical weekend sales. Kathy Grannis, a spokeswoman for the National Retail Federation, said consumers will likely shop online. And the weekend before Christmas gives retailers and shoppers another opportunity after this weekend. "If a big storm hits around 21st, 22nd, it will be a completely different story," Grannis said. Matthew Brelis, a spokesman for Boston's Logan Airport, expects the brunt of the storm Saturday night, but will evaluate conditions as forecasts change. "At some point, we'll start calling in more staff," he said. Caroline Pretyman, a spokeswoman for Northeast Utilities, which serves electric and gas customers in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, said extra crews would be available beginning overnight Saturday to respond to outages. And Metro-North, which runs trains between New York City and suburban Connecticut, Long Island and New York's Hudson Valley, said on its website it may reduce or suspend service "depending on the severity of the weather." It cautioned that snow and sub-freezing temperatures can create moisture that could freeze brake lines, door mechanisms, switches and signals. In Pennsylvania, two state high school football championship games were moved from Saturday to Sunday because of a predicted five to eight inches of snow. John Wallace, spokesman at Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks, Conn., said airport officials expected to meet with vendors and airlines on Friday to assess the impact of the storm. But he's not worried. "It's New England. It's the wintertime. I think we're pretty well ready for whatever is headed our way," he said. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
You may remember "The Rich Kids of Instagram," a Tumblr started last year that documented the escapades of obnoxiously rich teens and young adults who posted snapshots to the photo-sharing service.† Now,†some of those "kids"†are getting their own TV show on E!. And now thanks to The New York Post's Page Six, we finally know who the mega-wealthy 20-somethings will be: E.J. Johnson, Dorothy Wang, Morgan Stewart, Brendan Fitzpatrick, Roxy Sowlaty, and Jonny Drubel. Since we couldn't wait for the 2014 premiere date, we dug into their Instagram accounts. Here's a sneak peek of what to expect. (Follow Dorothy here) (Follow Roxy here) (Follow Jonny here)  (Follow Morgan here) (Follow Brendan here)  TV insiders told The Post that the new show is set up to be a successor to E!'s "Keeping up with the Kardashians" as a "sexier" show. It will premiere in January 2014. And if you really, really can't wait, don't worry: You can currently pre-order "Rich Kids of Instagram: A Novel" on Amazon.
NathanF via www.flickr.com creative commonsStocks ended a volatile week flat. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
www.media.tumblr.comIt is hard, almost impossible to get a job on Wall Street if you are an outsider. And, if you are in school, and you have no Wall Street experience, you don't know your a** from a hole in the ground, no matter how many books you have read, and you are going to sound like an idiot in an interview. There are no two ways about it. The good news is that many people are in the same boat and will sound like idiots in interviews. The bad news is that some of these people know guys on the inside. When I started at Lehman, plunked down in the 2001 Associate class, the first thing I realized was that everyone seemed to know each other. Lots of my classmates already knew people at various places in the firm. Partly this was because some of them were†interns†the summer before, but also, rich kids tend to know other rich kids from the Tri-State area. It's a small community. People know each other. That's a fact, and you can't do anything about it. All you can do is to work on making yourself a more attractive candidate. So going back to when I was in business school, in 1998 or 1999, I tracked down the one and only guy I knew who was a trader, called him up. He told me that I had no shot and I should just give up. Actually--he did have one piece of advice--he said I was going to need a story on why I wanted to become a trader, and it was going to have to be a good one. Then he hung up, expecting never to hear from me again. I went to what you call a very non-target school, and I was fully aware that the bulge-bracket banks didn't recruit there (even the local broker-dealers, like Montgomery or H&amp;Q or Sutro didn't recruit there), so I decided I was going to have to do it the old-fashioned way--by working my way up from the mailroom. Not quite--I got a job as a clerk on the†trading†floor, fetching coffee and sandwiches and entering in trade tickets and running risk reports. But then something interesting happened. While I was fetching coffee and sandwiches and entering in trade tickets, I started to learn a lot about options. I mean, I was working on the damn options floor, I was immersed in it. It's like the best way to learn French is just to live in France for a year. So I got really smart about options even though I never had any formal quantitative instruction like the kind people get when they go to University of Chicago. So when I was in that final round interview at Lehman, and the head of interest rate derivatives started asking me options questions, and I got them right, he was stoked because the whiz kids from Wharton never did, because they only had textbook knowledge, not practical knowledge. Getting the interview was another matter entirely. That was a function of pure aggression, like, cold-calling recruiters, something I don't enjoy. My intern at The Daily Dirtnap is off looking for jobs this week, in Boston. He is lucky, because I was able to introduce him to people. This makes him an insider, not an outsider, and he doesn't have to work as hard. He's tried on his own. Non-target school, average resume, no chance. But he is gaining experience working for me, and won't sound so dumb in an interview. There is a life lesson here. It's not a matter of luck. You have to make your own luck. Mailing in a resume is a million to one shot. For every Bieber and Upton "discovered" on YouTube, there are a lot of people sitting at home, waiting for something to happen to them. But nothing happens to you in your apartment. And if you can't get in through the front door, then you get in through the side door or the back door. And sometimes it takes time. Sometimes it takes years of fetching coffee and entering in trade tickets. I think younger people don't understand this. The†back office†or middle office job can be a huge stepping-stone, even if you have to suffer occasional indignities from bankers or traders. And these days, working at a small or mid-size firm can be just as good, or better, than a†BB. And if all else fails, and you don't get the job, there are a lot of other ways to make a lot of money in this world. You just have to be a little more creative. dailydirtnap.com†l Author of†Street Freak†Twitter:†@dailydirtnap
REUTERS/Jean-Paul PelissierSolal, a twelve-year-old toreador apprentice of the Nimes bullfighting school, nicknamed Solalito, performs a muleta pass during a beginner's bullfight (becerrada) at the bullring of Bouillargues, near Nimes, October 5, 2013.UPDATE: The chart referenced in the post has been removed. JP Morgan's Tom Lee wowed us today by slapping a 2,075 target on the S&amp;P 500 for 2014, which¬† implies a 17% return from current levels. This call makes Lee by far the most bullish widely-followed strategist on Wall Street. So, what's behind his call? Among other things, he compares the pattern of returns in the current bull market with previous bulls. Here's what he said: It‚Äôs a classic bull market in its 6th yearThe bull market, which began in March 2009, is acting like a ‚Äúclassic‚Äù secular bull market (see Figure 1). Furthermore, as shown on Figure 3, the end of each precedent secular bull market coincided with a recession (‚Äò87 saw the yield curve invert in ‚Äò86). Notably, as shown below, the 6th year of a bull market has historically been very strong, which would suggest that the market will continue to build upon the strong gains seen in 2013 as it enters its 6th year. "History says we could see a 20% gain in 2014," wrote Lee. What do you think?
Paula Abrahao via flickrTequila gets a bad reputation for being the fuel behind hazy drunken nights and rough mornings, but it doesn't have to be that way. Our friends at FindTheBest have compiled a list of the best bottles of tequila you can buy for less than $50. All of the tequilas on the list are made from 100% agave, meaning there are no sugars or other additives taking away from the Mexican plant's natural robust flavor.¬†These are tequilas that are meant for sipping, not shooting, and you won't wake up with that legendary tequila headache the next day.¬† To rank the tequilas, FindTheBest used¬†opinions from editors at Wine Enthusiast Magazine and performance reviews from each edition of the San Francisco World Spirit Awards since 2000. You won't find any mezcal worms at the bottom of these bottles. This a√±ejo tequila is aged in oak barrels for two years, a process that gives it its darker amber color. This particular bottle was a double gold medalist at the 2010 World Spirits Competition in San Francisco.¬† Aged for six months, this reposado tequila picks up smoothness from the oak barrels without losing the signature agave flavor.¬† Like other white tequilas, this label is a clear, sweet liquor with honey undertones. This blanco tequila was also a double gold medalist at the San Francisco World Spirits Competition.¬† This unaged, slightly fruity white tequila received a rating of 97 out of a possible 100 from Find the Best.¬† According to a silver-medal review by the Beverage Testing Institute, this golden reposado has a "peppery, chocolate cream and mineral finish." This label is an unaged white tequila with a flavor of sweet lemon-lime agave.¬† Aged for six months in white oak barrels, this reposado is smooth and fruity.¬† This reposado, which boasts warm vanilla and caramel flavors, is a steal at $18 a bottle.¬† After completing a two-month aging process, this reposado maintains a sweet agave taste that can be enjoyed alone or mixed in a cocktail.¬† Avion was rated the "World's Best Tasting Tequila" at the San Francisco World Spirits Competition in 2012, and it received a rating of 100 out of a possible 100 on Find the Best. The manufacturers describe it as "crisp and clean, well balanced and exceptionally smooth."
The gender gap remains one of the biggest issues in the modern workplace. A new map from Seth Kadish, who runs the must visit¬†Vizual Statistix, uses census data to show that there's a significant amount of regional variation in the gap in earnings between the ¬†sexes, and their presence in the workforce. The graphic, which he let us share below, shows which parts of the country have the highest gap between men and women both in terms of earnings and composition of the workforce. The parts of the country with the darkest brown shadings have the widest gap between men and women in both categories. As you can see, in both maps, parts of the west are the darkest brown, indicating a major advantage for men. The lighter areas are more balanced, the blue regions have a tilt in favor of women. In the median county, a man earns $40,980 and a woman earns¬†$30,281, and 42% of the workforce is female. Seth Kadish/Vizual Statistix
Goldman Sachs has pooled together 100 great charts in report looking back on the year. Here's an interesting macro look at whiskey consumption. The chart isn't per capita, so population helps. But man does India drink a lot of whiskey. Cheers. Goldman Sachs
Goldman Sachs analysts have scoured through a year's worth of charts to put together a killer crossword puzzle, connecting the bank's "key investment themes, and the implications of these for companies, sectors and countries." "What also fascinates us is the flow of people, goods, ideas and capital around the world," say Goldman analysts Hugo Scott-Gall and Sumana Manohar. "As we highlight in our companion end of the year piece, there are common threads that run through these ideas including the potency of innovation that can disrupt business models and blur sector boundaries, falling rents to labour, and the broadly disinflationary consequences of many of these themes." The puzzle, we imagine, will be a challenge to complete. UPDATE: Scroll down for answers. Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research ANSWERS (note: GS used British spellings): Business Insider
Wikimedia CommonsStocks are going up.It's time to stop reflecting on 2013†and start thinking about 2014. We thumbed through hundreds of pages of Wall Street's 2014 outlook notes and compiled the thoughts of 14 top stock market forecasters. The average S&amp;P 500 call was 1,949, with a median of 1,950. For EPS, the mean was $118 and median call was $116. Here are† Wall Street's top strategists with their S&amp;P 500 and EPS calls (from lowest to highest), with their commentary on why. From bullish to most bullish: David Bianco, Deutsche Bank: S&amp;P: 1,850: EPS: $119.00 In June, we introduced 2014 &amp; 2015 yearend S&amp;P targets of 1850 and 2000. We argued the S&amp;P PE would climb to its normal trailing PE of 16x (&lt;15x then) as healthy EPS growth continued within a long lasting expansionary cycle of moderate growth. We also argued that if real long-term risk free interest rates stayed below historical norms when QE stopped, then a PE over 16x trailing EPS would be fair. The PE is back to normal, a bit earlier than expected, but the Fed has yet to taper. Thus, we think it prudent not to assume any further PE upside until we get more clarity on where 10yr yields likely settle post QE. Brian Belski, BMO: S&amp;P 1,900, EPS: $116.00† We enter 2014 less optimistic than we have been in the past few years. Our models suggest mid-single-digit gains in 2014 based on slightly lower risk premiums, better revision trends and dividend increases, but macro conditions remain an obstacle. Given performance trends to date, we believe this the prudent approach. While valuation is by no means grossly overvalued, current levels suggest it may be more difficult for the market to continue its impressive run without equally impressive earnings growth. In addition, we believe investors will be acutely focused on Fed actions, since market performance has been significantly better during Fed bond buying programs. Therefore, we expect stocks to perform strongly during 1H, but fade during 2H as investors grapple with the removal of QE stimulus. Nonetheless, any Fed induced weakness should not be view as the end of this bull market. Instead investors with slightly longer investment horizons should use it a buying opportunity, particularly considering that several secular trends suggest that there are many more years of life in this cycle.† Barry Knapp, Barclays: S&amp;P: 1,900, EPS: $119.00 At the time of writing, attitudes toward stocks are very bullish, perhaps overly so. Although sentiment is easy to measure ñ several organisations do it ñ its relationship with market returns is ephemeral. Sentiment extremes often exist only briefly ahead of market turning points and disappear quickly as prices adjust, or even pause. Periods of persistent bullish or bearish sentiment are usually confirmed by excessively high or low valuations, which is not the case at present. Stocks have displayed an unusually tight relationship with sentiment since 2009. Thus, while establishing our core views for the coming year, we are holding some capacity with which to raise the risk of our portfolio further in case of a sentiment-led near-term sell-off.† Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup: S&amp;P: 1,900, EPS: $116.25 Issues such as a likely fight in Washington over the debt ceiling, aggressive 2014 bottom-up consensus estimates that need to be trimmed and Fed tapering could coalesce and restrain equity indices in the next few months. Nonetheless, a shift toward growth stocks seems appropriate along with large cap names especially if foreign money moves into US markets David Kostin, Goldman Sachs: S&amp;P: 1,900, EPS: $116.00 The linchpin of our market forecast is growth ñ in the economy, sales, and earnings.†We expect 3.6% global economic growth. The US will advance at a 3% pace while inflation remains contained at 1.4%. China, Japan, and even Europe will all grow, expanding GDP by 7.8%, 1.6%, and 1.5%, respectively....However, we expect no growth in margins and multiple in 2014. Recurring net margins have remained at a record-high plateau of roughly 8.7% since 2011. Firms have struggled to maintain profitability at current levels. We estimate flat margins for next several years. Client inquiries about the appropriate P/E multiple to assign US stocks routinely ignore that margins are extremely high on a historical basis and have been stagnant for several years.†Valuation is the biggest wildcard in our market outlook. Michael Kurtz, Nomura: S&amp;P: 1,925, EPS: $112.50 Our S&amp;P 500 upside outlook for the year ahead is†not predicated on comparatively optimistic earnings expectations. Rather, our own top-down forecast for 2014 S&amp;P 500 EPS is "just" $112.50/shr., or 5.6% higher than our 2013 top-down forecast of 106.50. Margins, as discussed, are the critical consideration: Against the highly optimistic (in our view) consensus forecast for 2014 U.S. Net Income and EBIT Margins to reach unprecedented levels of 10.8% and 15.7% respectively... we†conservatively assume 2014 S&amp;P Net Income Margin will no more than maintain the 2012-2013 two year average (i.e., 9.3%). Sean Darby, Jefferies: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $121.00 We expect the S&amp;P 500 to deliver modest returns with the index rising to 1,950 by the end of 2014. We believe the equity market is becoming fully valued and active investment strategies towards domestic growth and small caps ought to deliver better returns than multinationals and large caps.†With sentiment indicators buoyant, margin debt close to historic levels and indices trading close to their 2 standard deviation based on forward PE over five years, investors need to be mindful that a correction can easily unfold. We donít expect 2014 to be a smooth ride. Likewise earnings visibility will need to improve to maintain the recent fund flow momentum away from fixed income. Jonathan Golub, RBC: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $119.00 Such strong [2013] performance might lead investors to assume that the recovery has matured. We believe that a close look at the data suggests that we are just now entering the middle innings. As a result of the weak recovery, the economy has lots of spare capacity, interest rates and valuations are well below historical averages, and corporate managements are exercising extreme risk-averse behavior. We believe these factors are likely to provide a supportive environment for stocks for three key reasons: 1. Slack in the economy will keep the Fed from disruptively removing accommodation 2. Risk-averse corporate behavior will drive EPS higher 3. Valuations should renormalize, closing the gap between earnings yields and interest rates. Julian Emanuel, UBS: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $116.00 Although our projected S&amp;P 500 trailing valuation appears expensive on a recent historical basis, the much broader view of history strongly suggests that at some point in the current bull market cycle, valuations will indeed exceed 17x or more. In fact, in all but three of the post World War II bull markets, the multiple exceeded 17x on a trailing basis.†Thus through the combination of strong corporate balance sheets, an accommodative Fed, and solid GDP growth fueling increased revenues in a high operating margin environment do we forecast an expanding multiple which yields our 2014 Year End S&amp;P 500 price target of 1,950.† Andrew Garthwaite, Credit Suisse: S&amp;P: 1,960, EPS: $115.90 Ultimately, we believe that the equity market is set to be on an uptrend until equities become clearly expensive against bonds, QE ends or risk appetite is clearly in euphoria zone (as opposed to neutral now). We have not seen a 10% correction for 25 months ñ but in the 1980ís, 1990ís and 2000ís we had three-year, seven-year and 41/2- year bull markets in equities without such a correction. Very near-term we see the risk of consolidation, with some of the tactical indicators extended (such as the bull/bear ratio for financial advisors, while net corporate buying is low) and we expect the Fed to start tapering in January. However, the tactical indicators are less extreme than was the case a month ago. Savita Subramanian, Bank of America: S&amp;P: 2,000, EPS: $118.00 We believe the Standard and Poor's 500 Index will rise to 2,000 by the end of 2014, which implies a price return of about 11%... While that gain would be less than in 2013, our view is still higher than the consensus view on Wall Street...†Take note that allocations to equities (53%) are lower than the benchmark (65%). As for the Federal Reserve, we believe tapering, accompanied by a growing economy, would actually benefit cyclical stocks. Adam Parker, Morgan Stanley: S&amp;P: 2,014, EPS: $116.00 Since last March, we have been sanguine on US equities. Our logic has been driven more by lack of a bear case than the strength of the base case. We have seen 3 turns (12.0x to 15.1x) of multiple expansion in the last 2 years, only the 4th period with this level of expansion over the last 40+ years. Obviously, a sample size of three isnít statistically significant, but the prior three periods were all followed by a continuation of the rally for another 12-24 months, as momentum typically persists. The only thing people are worried about is that no one is worried about anything. That isn't a real worry. John Stoltzfus, Oppenheimer: S&amp;P: 2,014, EPS: $115.00 The 2014 target reflects our expectation that the stock market will have opportunity to move higher over the course of next year, and turn in yet another double-digit increaseó albeit around half the size of this yearís rally to date. Our price target is set using the mid-point between our dividend discount model and a price/earnings model.†We expect these valuation projections to be supported by improving fundamentals. We continue to believe that US economic growth has in effect been ìprimedî by the Federal Reserveís Quantitative Easing (QE) programs. Recent improvements in the tone of US economic data suggest to us that prospects are good for investors to see a continuation of the economic recovery that could drive earnings higher in the year ahead. Tom Lee, JP Morgan: S&amp;P: 2,075, EPS: $132.00 For several years now we have advanced the idea that the current bull market could prove to be one of the longest in history. However, what we believe many investors have yet to fully appreciate is how this market is indeed behaving like a classic bull market...we believe this is a classic bull market and the 6th year is typically strong. Historically, bull markets lasting at least 4 years (since 1897) have only ended with a recessionóthat is, they typically do not end just because "everyone is too bullish."
The folks at Goldman Sachs just published a massive special report with their analysts' 100 favorite charts. Here's an interesting chart going way back to 4000 BC showing the population of the biggest cities in the western and eastern worlds. It comes from Ian Morris' book "Why The West Rules ó For Now." Goldman Sachs
Stefan Gosatti/Getty ImagesOver the last year of developing my new clothing line, there have been a number of things that†have happened, and people Iíve met that have influenced the direction my ideas have taken. One of the encounters was in the Portland Hilton in February where a very normal-looking guy†asked me about the polka dot silk dress scarf I was wearing. He said he'd been thinking about†getting a scarf like it and wanted to know where he could buy one. I said that I had bought it†in New York, gave him my email, and told him I would find him one and send it. Within three†minutes I received his email and it read, "Met you at the Hilton.†Help me dress better!î The ìnormal lookingî guy in Portland was anything but normal. Kevin Peach is an Emergency†Management specialist who works with non-profits and lives in DC and also does a lot of†volunteer work for wounded/disabled veterans, which I find inspiring. Just goes to show you donít†judge a man by his sweater. Kevin and I have kept in touch over the last 9 months. I did find him the same scarf and sent it†him, and he was so appreciative. Ironically, the day before launching my line at the beginning of†December, I got an email from him that read: ìI just wanted to touch base with you and see how†things are going. I LOVE my scarf and have since added two more to my collection. †Thanks for†showing me the way and giving me the confidence to add scarves to my repertoire!î † All over the country I somehow find myself engaged in conversations with men that would never†normally discuss things like patterns, color or cut, but itís happening everywhere I go. From my†daughterís college fraternity friends to Wall Street guys in the NYC subways, there is a quiet†revolution going on. When I started Joe Boxer 25 years ago, 80% of menís underwear was bought by women. That†number today is down to 20%. Men are becoming more independent in their thinking and more†adventurous in expressing who they are as defined by what they wear. The uniform that we have†trained men to wear is ready for a big shift. We're about to go from Prep, to what I call Post-Prep. If Prep is emailing, Post-Prep is tumbling. Prep is Prius, Post-Prep is Tesla. Itís the Darwinian†evolution that we, as men, are going through.†Which brings me back to scarves, and I donít mean that plaid thing that you got for Christmas†thirteen years ago from your grumpy aunt in Milwaukee. But a dress scarf, made of silk, cotton†or wool, preferably patterned (polka-dot, foulard, paisley). Dress scarves are not just for cold†weather but for indoors as well. What I say about dress scarves (and pocket squares) is that they†are the gateway to better dressing; they wont break the bank; theyíre easy to wear and donít†involve any tailoring. Theyíre also easy to coordinate, donít take batteries and can take your†wardrobe from dull to interesting in 2 seconds. When I asked a good friend of mine, a very attractive and successful business woman in NYC†what she thinks of a man in a scarf, her answer came clear and fast. ìIt means that he has†confidence, that he is together, and that he cares about his look. Iím immediately attracted to†guys like that, and would want to know him.î Which is pretty much what any guy would want to hear. So this Christmas, give the gift of†awesomeness. Buy yourself or someone you love (or someone you want to love), a dress scarf†and see how much presence (or presents) you gain. You never know ó when you wear a scarf, you might get luckier under the mistletoe. Nick Graham is the CEO of NGO Inc, a company that produces, and distributes Menís apparel and†accessories under the Nick Graham brand at nickgraham.com. He is also the Founder and former Chief†Underpants Officer of Joe Boxer. nick@nickgraham.com
Bloomberg TVTom Lee.JPMorgan chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee had the most bullish price target on Wall Street for the S&amp;P 500 in 2013, predicting the index would end the year at 1825. Lee has just released his year-ahead outlook, and he can now claim the most bullish S&amp;P 500 forecast for 2014 as well: he predicts the index will finish next year at 2075, implying 17% upside from today's levels. The JPMorgan strategist says U.S. stocks are "in a classic bull market." He expects part of the upside to come from better earnings next year (with earnings growth accelerating to 9% from 6%) as well as a further expansion in the price-to-earnings valuation multiple (to 15.7x from 14.5x). In his outlook, Lee lays out six reasons why he remains constructive on equities next year:
U.S. Patent OfficeAs a logical follow up to my mention the other day of a piece I wrote for¬†Business Insider on shoe brands under $350¬†I would like to talk about how to tell if your shoes fit you properly.¬† Which, to be honest, is not much different for men than it is for women.¬† Additionally, keep in mind these bits of advice are equally applicable for shoes costing less than $350 as they are for those well over $350. As I am sure we all know, wearing shoes that don‚Äôt fit well or that are uncomfortable can ruin a day.¬† Many days, in fact.¬† I remember in the days before I gained a proper appreciation for well fitting footwear I would develop blisters on parts of my feet meanwhile other parts would be sore or tender after a long day of wear.¬† It would distract me from my work and have an adverse effect on my mood.¬† It was no way to go about things. But a few years of trial and error and research into the subject has taught me a few important things which I would like to share: 1. Although the last is the physical form for which a shoe is constructed around (literally) it is also used to refer to the shape of the shoe.¬† In short, the last used in making a shoe determines the toe shape, heel shape, toe box volume, instep height etc.¬† The first time you put on a shoe, it is either comfortable or not comfortable.¬† It should be snug, not tight and not spacious.¬† Yes the leather plays a role in this.¬† But it is largely due to the shape of the last and how well it fits your foot.¬† And some lasts just won‚Äôt fit you.¬† There is only so much you change on the feel of a shoe while breaking it in; some shoes will just never be comfortable (take for instance the photo above, all of the shoes are a US10 or UK9, which are equivalent sizes, note the differences in length, width and toe shapes; these are due to the lasts being different shapes).¬† If women realized this, we would see far fewer of them carrying their shoes down the sidewalk while walking barefoot at the end of the night.¬† 2.¬† The last of a shoe has little to do with the quality of the shoe.¬† You can find a shoe made on a last that fits your foot very well for $150 and then a last for a $500 shoe that doesn‚Äôt fit well at all.¬† If you find a last(s) that fit you well, ask the brand(s) what other styles they make on that last and look to those for other options. 3.¬† A shoe‚Äôs leather will often expand and widen with wear, albeit only a little bit.¬† However, the shoe will not get longer.¬† If your toes are crunched at their tips, don‚Äôt expect that to get much better with wear; you want a little bit of space between the ends of your toes and the end of the shoe.¬† Either go up a half size or admit that the last doesn‚Äôt fit your foot and find another shoe no matter how much you like the styling of that shoe. The Fine Young GentlemanAllen Edmonds, Brooks Brothers, Just A Man Shoes, J. Fitzpatrick, Gary Michaels, Meermin4.¬† Wear the type of socks when trying on the shoes that you will normally wear when wearing the shoes.¬† In other words, don‚Äôt wear ski socks when trying on dress shoes. 5.¬† Know your shoe size, which is usually obtained by using a Brannock Device (pictured above).¬† But keep in mind that this is not an absolute.¬† In one brand you may be a 9 and in another a 9.5.¬† Don‚Äôt be afraid to try other sizes. 6.¬† Know that US, UK and European sizings are different.¬† And that the conversion scales that brands use may vary.¬† I have found the best luck in following each brands conversion scale. 7.¬† Make sure the ball of your foot sits well in the widest part of the shoes, as the ball is the widest part of your foot. 8.¬† Take note of how your heel sits in the shoes.¬† If it slips out when trying the shoes on chances are this will not get much better, especially with a loafer.¬† The sole becoming more flexible with wear will slightly alleviate this problem but the real root of the problem is that many shoes have too wide of a heel to begin with which goes back to my first point about lasts. 9.¬† Walk around in the shoes before buying them, obviously.¬† But take it a step further and once you have the shoes home, walk around in and wear them for a few hours on carpet or surfaces that wont scuff the sole of the shoes.¬† This should give you a better feel for the shoes than putting them on briefly in a store; or if you purchased them online then this is a must do step.¬† Often shoes are not returnable once the soles are marked or scuffed. 10.¬† Nearly every person‚Äôs left and right feet are different sizes, often the difference is less than a half size so there is rarely an issue.¬† Regardless, fit the shoes to your larger foot.¬† For those with over a half size difference, some brands and stores may let you mix and match sizes or custom order two different sized shoes. 11.¬† Shop in the afternoon, or at least a few hours after your feet have had a chance to warm up and expand, as your feet will become slightly bigger as the day goes on.¬† This fact explains why sometimes when you put shoes on in the morning they seem fine and by day‚Äôs end they are tight on your feet. Justin Jeffers is the editor of The Fine Young Gentleman. You can follow him on Twitter @FYGBlog.
Warren Buffett sent out a really intense Christmas card, recapitulating his costume celebrated the end of Breaking Bad that depicted him as dad/drug kingpin Heisenberg. Here it is, via WSJ's Nikki Waller and Quartz's Matt Phillips: 

Wikimedia Commons/ Brocken Inaglory Life might be better on the buy-side if you work on Wall Street. People who work at hedge funds tend to get a bigger salary and better hours as opposed to investment banking. ¬†Not to mention, they also have a more relaxed dress code (loafers, slacks and a fleece vest). What's more is hedge funds have some really nice perks for their employees. These range anywhere from making sure the employees are well-fed to team vacations in the Bahamas. ¬† ¬†¬† We spoke to some hedge fund sources who spilled about which funds have these awesome perks. ¬†We also did our own research on the web to dig up other perks. If we're missing any bigs ones, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.¬†
Courtesy of Sotheby's International RealtyAfter seven years on the market, former Tommy Hilfiger CEO and co-founder Joel Horowitz has sold his¬†gargantuan Lake Tahoe estate for $48 million, significantly under the initial $100 million asking price. According to The Wall Street Journal, a holding company called¬†Tranquil Investments LLC purchased the property. After lowering the price to $75 million in 2011, Horowitz proposed a deal to potential buyers: He said he would personally finance the purchase for a qualified buyer. The 210-acre estate, called Tranquility, is the largest on the Nevada side of Lake Tahoe. In addition to a 27,000-square-foot mansion, it has an indoor glass mosaic pool, private lake, two par-3 golf holes and an indoor golf simulator, horse stables, a wine cellar, a cinema, and separate guest and staff residences.
Twitter's stock is up 4% this morning, going as high as $58.19. That's blowing past even the most bullish price targets on the street.† Until this morning, the highest price target on the stock was $54. The consensus is†$41.45.† A week ago the stock was trading at $45.† So what's caused the ~26% jump in the stock? We asked Robert Peck, analyst at SunTrust. He was the first mega bull on Twitter. He slapped a $50 price target on the stock before the IPO.† He gave us four reasons the stock is up (and we think these are basically in order of importance): 1. Twitter is increasing its targeting on the platform, reaching Facebook levels of targeting accuracy. Twitter had a blog post explaining that it is going to be able to track usage from the web to the Twitter app and serve ads.† 2. Twitter's ad exchange MoPub is going to sell ads outside of Twitter. This is a big expansion, and a big opportunity to generate revenue from more than just Twitter, which remains a relatively small service.† Before we move on to reasons 3 and 4, we should note that these previous two bits of news were made possible when the quiet period was lifted. Once Twitter was free to talk about its business publicly, it was able to provide clarity to investors.† 3. RBC analyst Mark Mahaney jacked his price target to $60 this morning, the highest on the street. He was at $33 before, so this is a serious increase, and it's driving the stock today. In his note, Mahaney said, "We are increasing our estimates based on the positive results of our advertiser survey, our industry checks, and our increased conviction in Twitterís advertiser tools and user functionality improvement potential." 4. There isn't a lot of Twitter stock out there to buy. Peck says Twitter didn't release a lot of stock in the first place, so there's a supply and demand issue. He says that a few shareholders have big chunks of the stock, but they're not selling, making it harder for people who want to buy.† Overall, people are seeing that Twitter's core business has potential. They are hearing from marketers and ad agencies that Twitter is a good platform for advertising. And this is driving the stock.†
Small business owners need to know how to organize their customers, costs, revenues, loans, financial information, and more in spreadsheet format. ¬†This video, #5 in a ¬†series produced for a regional micro lending organization, continues to introduce key skills to help you get started with Excel. ¬†Formatting cells, columns, and rows saves a ton of time and will serve you well as you grow your business. - See more at:¬† 
REUTERS You may have seen the above map showing worldwide shale basins. It seems like a lot of other nations could replicate America's shale boom if they only put their minds to it. But while Mother Earth may have generously distributed her deposits of unconventional resources, she and Man have also conspired to make them not all equally accessible. ¬† Scott Gruber at AllianceBernstein has created three annotated charts showing the amount of known shale reserves for all major countries, and the barriers to companies' ability to drill there. Check it out: Scott Gruber/AllianceBernstein Scott Gruber/AllianceBernstein Scott Gruber/AllianceBernstein
Thedecathlon.orgRegistration for the 2015 Wall Street Decathlonóan annual event where some of the strongest and fastest people in the financial services industry compete for the title of "Wall Street's Best Athlete"óopened today! (It usually sells out in a couple of days).† In June, athletes will complete a 400-meter run, football throw, pull-ups, 40-yard dash, dips, 500-meter row, vertical jump, 20-yard shuttle, bench press, and an 800-meter run all within a span of four hours. In the past, the competition has included former professional football players and former college athletes. The annual event raises funds for pediatric cancer research and treatment†at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. The Decathlon has raised more than $4.6 million.† We caught up with some of the top finishers from this year's event. They were kind enough to share some of their training and nutrition tips.† Julia La RocheLi's Workout: "I think itís important to train for every event ñ thatís also what makes the event so challenging, because it tests your abilities in a number of ways.† Muscle memory is critical to performing well (getting used to each event), as is training your body to deal with the specific stresses that each event presents. †I have days marked for lifting, running, rowing, etc. with each workout tailored to a goal ñ some workouts are endurance-focused, others are more anaerobic.† Recovery is also important, so I do have rest days too.† Once you get sick of the workouts, thatís when you know youíre close to being ready!" Nutrition: "Iíd say that my diet doesnít change....itís primarily focused on getting enough protein and complex carbs so that I can train hard and my body gets the nutrition it needs to keep up.† For someone my size, that means about 200 grams of protein daily ñ some from supplements, and letís just say I eat a lot of chicken." Kevin McCarthyZych's Workout: "I workout 6 days a week, usually 1-2 hours during the week and 2-3 hours each weekend day. During the week, I workout in the mornings (usually get up around 5:30). My work hours sometimes get a little crazy, so this is the only time I know I have available. Also, nothing beats the post-workout feeling as I sit down at my desk in the morning. I like to schedule a workout on Saturday morning, mostly to keep myself from drinking too much on a Friday night haha. If my body is too sore, I will take a day off. I used to try to train through the aches and pains, but it just isn't smart. The last thing I want to do is get hurt. "I belong to a local CrossFit gym (CrossFit Deep), where I do most of my lifting. I don't always agree with their programming (burpees are stupid), but I can lift heavy and drop weights and be loud there. There are also some great athletes to compete with. "I have a football training background, so that makes up the meat and potatoes of my training. Bench press, Olympic lifts, heavy squats and deadlifts. I do not do body part splits. "Arms Day" is stupid. Every day is Leg Day in some shape or form."† Nutrition: "Since Iím sitting at a desk for sometimes up to 100 hours a week, I try to be as healthy as possible when at the office.†Some rules: try to bring prepared lunch as much as possible, only fruits/veggies as snacks, only drink water or milk during the day.†I donít follow a strict diet, but instead try to shoot for 6 ì100% healthy daysî a week. I define that as no alcohol, as much sleep as possible, and clean diet (meaning lean proteins and carbs mostly from fruits and veggies).†I give myself 1 day a week to eat/drink whatever. This usually ends up being Saturday. This usually ends up being pizza. This usually ends up being beer." Lidel's Workout: "My normal workout routine is an alternating schedule of cardio only days and weight training with cardio days.† I use various types of cardio including running, swimming, bike riding, elliptical machines, and stair climbing, and there is always an interval component to the cardio workout.† Each weight training day I focus on a different muscle group (for example legs, back and biceps, and chest and triceps) and then I always end with abs and a session of stretching.† As we get closer to the decathlon I start doing event specific training and when the weather allows I attempt to log as many track workouts as possible. "I, like nearly everyone else in this event, have a very stressful job.† My exercise routine is how I deal with that stress.† It is as important of a part of my day as brushing my teeth.† I make time to exercise and the people I work with know and respect that.† Our firm invests internationally and we basically have risk 24 hours/day, so I hit the gym in the short period of time between the US market close and Asia open."† Nutrition:†"Nutrition is important all year long but a lot of people find it especially hard over the holidays.† I am a very clean eater and the trouble I have is with quantity this time of year.† Itís difficult for example, when your family is constantly setting out the high calorie nuts to snack on all day.† If you must have your ìnaughty foodî just make room for it in your diet.† Donít be afraid to splurge on a Christmas cookie, or your favorite carb trio of rolls, mashed potatoes, and stuffing, but be sure to do it in moderation.† Let the naughty happen at a couple of special meals and not the entire 4 days you might take for the holiday.† You canít outrun your fork." Dmitry Gudkov Lidel (center) Setyadi (right) Setyadi's Workout: "The Decathlon is tough, mostly because you need to do well in every single event.† Itís important to have an honest idea of where youíre starting from, so test yourself for a baseline.† Then set ambitious (but achievable!) goals.† Most importantly, prepare a training schedule over the next 5 months, keeping in mind that this should be a flexible schedule that you should modify continuously based on your progress.† Again, you need to prepare equally for all 10 events, so a well-planned schedule is essential.† However, be careful not to over train; minimizing or avoiding injuries is equally as important."† Nutrition: "Minimize processed foods, and incorporate as much fresh protein, produce, whole grains, etc. into your diet. †Women especially should increase their protein intakeÖ donít worry about ìbulking upî because it wonít happen!† Instead youíll build lean muscle, which may add a couple pounds but overall will greatly help your performance.† However, over the holidays, enjoy yourself (without going overboard).† There is plenty of time between now and the Decathlon to get some less healthy holiday treats out of your system, so relax and enjoy this time of year."†
AP/Illustration by Mike Nudelman We are pleased and proud to report that our story about why AOL CEO Tim Armstrong fired an employee in front of a thousand co-workers was just named the best long-form business story of the year. This story was written by our Chief Correspondent, Nicholas Carlson, and published last month.¬†The editors at Longform.org selected the story over thousands of other excellent stories published by folks at Bloomberg, BusinessWeek, Fortune, the Wall Street Journal, and many other publications. You can read about the other 4 stories Longform honored here &gt; And if you haven't read Nick's story yet, here it is: THE COST OF WINNING: The Story Of Why AOL CEO Tim Armstrong Fired That Guy In Front Of 1,000 Co-Workers
CNBC ran a story yesterday with the headline "The rich do not pay the most taxes, they pay ALL the taxes." The story has thousands of Facebook shares. And its premise is completely false. The article goes on to present data regarding the federal personal income tax, which is indeed paid almost entirely by people with high incomes. People with low incomes pay negative federal personal income taxes (that is, the government sends them checks) because of the earned income tax credit. But "taxes" are not the same thing as "federal personal income taxes." The federal personal income tax only made up 28% of all U.S. government tax collections in 2012. Federal, state and local governments collected $4 trillion in taxes last year; just $1.1 trillion of that was federal personal income tax. And people with low incomes who don't pay federal personal income tax do pay lots of those other taxes: payroll tax, state income tax, sales tax, property tax, excise taxes, and more. They pay other taxes indirectly: Workers bear the burden of employer-paid payroll taxes and part of the burden of corporate income taxes. Here's a chart I made earlier this year showing the distribution of the tax burden when you add all the taxes together. Earners in the top 1% pay about 43% of their incomes in tax. People in the middle quintile pay 25%. The poorest fifth pays 13%. Business Insider, data from Tax Policy Center and Institute on Taxation and Economic PolicyRich people do pay a lot more taxes than poor people, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of income. But the rich are not paying all the taxes. And looking just at the federal personal income tax and trying to draw conclusions about who pays "taxes" will lead you to wrong answers. P.S. While it's true that rich people pay most federal personal income taxes, to get to CNBC's claim that they pay "all" federal personal income taxes, you have to use a really expansive definition of "rich." The Congressional Budget Office finds that payments by the top 40% of the income distribution exceed the total of all net federal income tax collections. (This is because many poor people have negative federal income tax bills.) But that top 40% group includes single people with incomes as low as $51,100 and couples with incomes of $72,300. Those people aren't poor but it's a real stretch to say they're rich.
Wikimedia CommonsSunset on Newport Beach, California, home of PIMCO."The new year promises to be a better year," writes PIMCO's Saumil Parikh. "Many of the challenges faced during 2013 have either progressed toward a point of self-exhaustion or are being overcome via alternatives to yield a brighter outlook for global growth in 2014," he added. "PIMCO expects the global economy to grow between 2.5%ñ3% next year." Here are PIMCO's expectations for the world's four biggest economies: Head to PIMCO.com for the full note.
Our words won't do justice to the brilliance that is Jim Cramer, but we'll give you a short summation of what you'll see in the video. Cramer goes off on the state of the hot tech stocks that are confounding some investors, and a lot of executives at traditional rivals.¬† He talks about Amazon, Tesla, Netflix, and Twitter. Essentially, he says executives don't get why their stocks are on fire. Amazon is making no money. Tesla sells 25,000 cars in a year, while Ford sells that in a day. Netflix, meanwhile, is still beholden to big TV and cable companies. And Twitter, well, Twitter makes no money and its valuation is getting out of control. Cramer just says this is how it is, and seems to suggest these great consumer brands are able to attract great consumer investor interest, and this could be the new normal for investment.¬† Eventually this could change. People can fall out of love with these companies. But who knows when that's going to happen. And people betting against the consumer love for these brands have been losing money.¬† Watch the video with the sound on to see a true maestro rip through an incredible speech on the state of tech stocks.¬†  (Via: Drudge Report, where this is the leading story.)
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartBitcoins created by enthusiast Mike Caldwell are seen in a photo illustration at his office in Sandy, Utah, September 17, 2013. Bloomberg has performed a simple poll on Americans' awareness of Bitcoin, and the results may be pretty bullish for the digital currency. 42% of Americans correctly identified Bitcoin as a digital currency. 46% said they weren't sure. And 12% thought it was either an iPhone app or an Xbox game.† Still, 42% ain't bad for a computer program created in a guy's bedroom that until just a few months ago was used primarily to buy drugs in the backwaters of the Internet. The value of Bitcoin has climbed 7,000% in 2013, and about 200% in the past month. It was trading at about $915 on the Mt. Gox exchange today. † Once Bitcoin was defined to those who weren't familiar with it, 45% said it would be better if it were regulated, while 39% said it would be better if it continued to go unregulated. 16% said they weren't sure. Bloomberg and†Selzer &amp; Co. of Des Moines, IA, interviewed 1,004 U.S. adults ages 18 or older.

The dollar's firmer tone, with the euro falling to 4-day lows and sterling to 2-week lows, is likely position squaring ahead of next week's FOMC meeting, the last major event of the year. ¬†As we noted yesterday, the euro and sterling's upside momentum, left the currencies vulnerable after their recent run.¬† The strength of US retail sales and the continued inventory build have prompted upward revisions to Q4 GDP forecasts to 2% or a little above. ¬†It reinforces the signal from last week's jobs data that the US economy has strengthened. ¬† On top of this, the budget agreement, which has been approved by the House of Representatives, will reduce the fiscal headwind in 2014 a little bit more than had been expected.¬† Many observers seem to think there is a direct line between these stronger economic reports and Fed tapering. ¬†We are not as sanguine. ¬†The case against December tapering had three planks. ¬†Admittedly, the clarification of the fiscal situation removes one of the planks. ¬†However, the other two planks are even more important. ¬†The first is that inflation is very low. ¬†The core PCE deflator, the Fed's preferred measure, is lower now than several months ago, when the FOMC upgraded its concern about disinflation.¬† The second plank is the need to ensure forward guidance, upon which monetary policy will rely on during the transition from tapering to tightening, is credible. ¬†To make it credible requires that the people who offer it are the people who will enforce it. ¬†Given the pending changes at the Fed, including a significant change at the Board of Governors, it is clearly preferable for the Yellen Fed to taper and offer the new forward guidance. ¬† Yellen will likely get confirmed next week. ¬†We suspect shortly thereafter Bernanke will step down. ¬†Yellen will then chair the late Jan FOMC meeting. ¬†Although we have been anticipating a March tapering, a move in January, Yellen's first meeting as chair, is possible.¬† The economic news stream today is light. ¬†The fact that sterling found little support in strong economic data warns that 1) the strength of the UK economy has been discounted and/or 2) other factors are outweighing it. ¬†The UK reported construction output rose 2.2% in Oct rather than the 1.6% Bloomberg consensus and the Sept data were revised to show a smaller decline (-0.5% rather than -0.9%). ¬†Sterling has been pushed below its 20-day moving average (~$1.6290) for the first time since mid-Nov. ¬†The technical indicators are deteriorating and the next immediate target is near $1.6230.¬†  The euro's pullback has thus far been more modest. ¬†The $1.3700 area, which corresponds with a retracement objective of the latest leg up that began on Dec 3 near $1.3525 and the 200-hour moving average. ¬†This area must be taken out to start to be anything significant. ¬†We note that the 2-year interest rate differential between the US and Germany is stabilizing at low levels. ¬†That said, we find that it is the change, not simply the level that is key. ¬†Nevertheless, outside of the PPI figures, which tend not to be a market mover, the calendar is light and this may deny the market a sufficient excuse to look for the stops below $1.3700. ¬†That said, resistance is seen in the $1.3740 area.¬† The heavy euro and sterling tone has not prevented continued weakness of the dollar-bloc currencies and the yen. ¬†The Australian dollar's attempt to carve out a near-term bottom was dashed by the bearish comments of RBA Governor Stevens. ¬†Saying that the Australian dollar is over-valued is one thing. ¬†To provide a specific target is quite another and seems to go against the spirit of G20 agreements. ¬†At the end of last year and early this year, Japanese officials were criticized for essentially the same type of thing. ¬†It is also a bit disingenuous for a central banker to talk about a nominal bilateral exchange rate and all the more since the US is not Australia's largest trading partner.¬† Moreover, from a macro-economic and policy point of view, is a roughly 5% depreciation of a currency (on a bilateral nominal basis), given the volatility, really significant? ¬†In any event, the bearishly disposed market was happy to do Steven's bidding, though rarely do the foreign exchange wishes of policy makers, drive prices. ¬†The next immediate target for the Australian dollar is the year's low set in early August just below $0.8850. ¬† ¬†Separately, the US dollar looks set to re-test the CAD1.07 area.¬†  The dollar is trading at new five year highs against the Japanese yen. ¬†This comes despite a sharp upward revision to Japan's Oct industrial output (1.0% up from 0.5% initially). ¬†The report boosts confidence that the Tankan Survey due out early Monday in Tokyo will also show improvement. ¬†Yet, in Japan, as we have tried arguing about the US, it is not the real sector side of the policy making equation that is dominant now. ¬†It is about prices (inflation). ¬†The dollar approached the JPY104 level in Asia, but has drifted a bit lower in Europe. ¬† Corrective pressures through the crosses (against sterling and euro) may prevent another test in North America today.¬†        Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª

George Frey/Getty Images/AFP/FileA pile of Bitcoin slugs sit in a box ready to be minted on April 26, 2013 in Sandy, Utah.The European Union's banking watchdog on Friday issued a warning over virtual currency trading amid huge swings in the value of Bitcoin, a lack of regulation and money laundering risks. "The European Banking Authority (EBA) is issuing this warning to highlight the possible risks you may face when buying, holding or trading virtual currencies such as Bitcoin," a statement said. The EBA added: "We recommend that, if you buy virtual currencies, you should be fully aware and understand their specific characteristics. Bitcoin has become a global phenomenon, with the price rising so much that a Norwegian man was able to buy an apartment with some of the 5,000 Bitcoins he bought for just $24 in 2009. The explosive growth has raised alarm bells, with analysts warning of a potential crash due to a lack of fundamental underpinning. The EBA urged users to "exercise the same caution with your digital wallet as you would do with your conventional wallet or purse." The watchdog said people should not keep large amounts of money in their digital wallet for an extended period. The warning comes as Chinese speculators have seen Bitcoin values plunge, soar and plunge again within days. China is the world's biggest market for trading Bitcoins, but around $5.0 billion was wiped off the value of the currency's global stock within an hour of an announcement from Beijing's central bank in early December, banning financial institutions from dealing in it. Bitcoin was invented in the wake of the global financial crisis by a computer scientist using the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto. It is based on cryptography and only 21 million units can ever be created, which can be stored either virtually or on a user's hard drive. It offers a largely anonymous payment system with no centralised structure and transactions are publicly logged in what is known as the "block chain". Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Click for sound. ¬† Paul Krugman, columnist for the New York Times, gets his fair share of hate mail. But he never responds to the "haters". Produced by Justin Gmoser.¬† Follow us on YouTube &gt;
"After a week of surprisingly good economic data and the likelihood of another government shutdown approaching zero, the Federal Reserve will likely taper in December if it sticks to the plan it laid out over the summer," concluded Business Insider's Danny Vinik on November 11. At the time of Vinik's analysis, most of Wall Street's economists were unwilling to forecast a¬† December tapering of the Fed's $85 monthly quantitative easing program. But that sentiment has shifted in the wake of the surprisingly strong November jobs report, the surprisingly strong November retail sales report, and the earlier-than-expected U.S. budget deal. "It's still a close call,¬† but chances are now above 50 percent that the Federal Reserve will modestly reduce its asset purchases later this month," said Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere who was communicating the analysis of former Fed Vice Chair Don Kohn. "There's a 60-40 chance that the FOMC will decide on Dec. 18 to begin tapering." "The final piece of the puzzle may have been yesterday's solid retail sales data, a sign that the recent improvement in the labor market may finally be producing stronger spending," he added. "Agreement on a budget deal, eliminating a major source of uncertainty, is another factor supporting a December taper." But could the markets handle it? "I think a few weeks ago investors would have been pretty concerned about the idea of [a December] taper because the data didn't really give them comfort that the economy was at escape velocity," said JP Morgan's Tom Lee. But "with Friday's jobs report and some of the other ones we've had recently, you know I think investors are getting comfortable if it does happen in December." The Federal Reserve will conclude its next Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting and publish its statement at 2:00 p.m. ET on Wednesday, December 18.¬† The consensus among Wall Street's economists is no taper.
REUTERS/ Heinz-Peter BaderMembers of the State Opera ballet dance during a dress rehearsal of "Etudes" in Vienna December 12, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/StringerAn investor gestures in front of an electronic board showing stock information at a brokerage house in Huaibei, Anhui province.For the most part, markets in Asia climbed with Japan's Nikkei, Hong Kong's Hang Seng, and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 indices all closing in the green. However, China's Shanghai Composite fell 0.3%. Bloomberg reports that Yuan forward contracts have fallen by 0.32% in the past three days. Morgan Stanley's Hans Redeker thinks he knows what's going on. From his FX Morning note: Overnight, Chinaís commodity prices fell sharply (coal: -2.2%, iron ore: -2.25%) on rumors that China will lower its 7.5% growth target to 7%. Note, financing costs in the real economy have been rising despite abundant money supply, with some facing costs of 10% to 15%. The rise of financing costs is required to reduce the leverage risk, but suggests slower economic growth for now. China Railway Corporation said that national investment in railway infrastructure construction fell for a third consecutive month in November, by 7% to CNY64.8bln. The RBAís Stevens and PM Abbott undertook further efforts to push AUD lower, mentioning AUDUSD 0.85 as a target. Commodity currencies are set to stay offered. We're not certain where Redeker heard that rumor. But here's Bloomberg's Fion Li today: "Chinese policy makers may cut the nation's 2014 economic growth target to 7 percent from 7.5 percent at an annual conference, the Economic Information Daily said Dec. 3." According to ForexLive, that Dec. 3 report also included a CPI target of 3.5% and an M2 growth target of 13%. The consensus among Wall Street's economists is that China's economy will indeed decelerate in 2014, so a lowered growth target wouldn't be a big surprise. Nevertheless, it may be jarring to see officials actually commit to a growth target that's lower than that of the year before.
Nothing illustrates this better than the cheering over last week‚Äôs payroll employment report showing a November jobs increase of 203,000, accompanied by a drop in the unemployment rate to 7%.¬† Compared to the past, however, the gain in employment was mediocre, while the unemployment drop was as much a result of a lower participation rate as it was of the rise in jobs. The 203,000 rise in November jobs, if maintained (and this is not necessarily the case), would come to a total of 2,436,000 on an annual basis, or 1.78% of the total number of employed.¬† This increase pales when compared to the increase seen in past economic recoveries, and is far under the level needed to engender a self-sustaining economic recovery.¬† We looked at the last eight economic recoveries using the official dates determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research and found that, on average, the number of employed increased 2.94% a year from the trough through the peak of the business cycle.¬† In order for that to happen in the current cycle, the increase in jobs would have to amount to a monthly average 335,000, based on the number of people with jobs.¬† Obviously we are nowhere near that rate of increase now or at any time since the recovery started.¬† The November rise of 203,000 only seems high in comparison with the results of the last five years, but is an illusion based on lower expectations. ¬† As for the lower unemployment rate, we are far from the first to point out that this is as much a reflection of the declining participation rate as it is of the increased number of employed.¬† Some contend that the lower participation rate is a result of the aging of the population as more people reach retirement age.¬† However, this does not explain why the participation rate of those between 25 and 54 years old has also been declining at a rapid rate. In addition, keep in mind that the so-called U-6 unemployment rate is at 13.6%.¬† This number includes, in addition to the officially reported unemployment rate, discouraged workers ‚Äúwho currently are neither working nor looking for work but indicate that they want and are available for a job and have looked for work sometime in the past 12 months‚Ä¶.and those who want and are available for full-time work but have had to settle for a part-time schedule.‚Äù¬†¬† We note, too, that the number of employed peaked in January 2008 and still remains 1.4 million below that level despite the rise in population since that time.¬† All in all, the increase in the number of jobs has not broken out of the rut where it has been for the last few years.
For the most part, Wall Street's interest rate strategist expect interest rates to rise in 2014. Intuitively, many believe this is bad news for stocks as it is a sign of rising debt costs. However, rates often rise because the economy is improving. And if rates are rising because of inflation, that's okay too because corporations pass inflation through to their customers by raising prices. This is why academics often say stocks are a hedge against moderate inflation. Generally, the asset class that gets hit most directly is bonds. "Most investors fear rising interest rates," write the folks at BlackRock. "But perhaps more than the others, bond investors fear the loss of portfolio value that may occur when interest rates rise. Which begs the question ñ are there alternatives to bonds that might offer income and behave better in a rising rate environment?" BlackRock agrees that stocks are the way to go under these circumstances. And within stocks? "Indeed, global dividend stocks offer a compelling potential of income and outperformance in rising rate environments," they add. Check out this chart from BlackRock with historical performance during rising rate environments. BlackRock
ReutersLONDON (Reuters) - The amount raised by U.S. stock market listings so far this year has risen 38 percent on the same period in 2012, Thomson Reuters data showed on Friday, making it the strongest year since 2000. This week's $2.4 billion initial public offering (IPO) by hotel operator Hilton Worldwide Holdings &lt;HLT.N&gt;, the third-largest U.S. listing this year, pushed the volume of completed IPOs to $57.8 billion. Bank of America Merrill Lynch &lt;BAC.N&gt; is the top-ranked bookrunner on U.S. listings in 2013, with a 12.5 percent market share. For more details on the week's investment banking data please click here. (Reporting by Kylie MacLellan; Editing by David Goodman)
Fatih Birol is one of those people who run the world without the man in the street ever having heard of them. From a discreet office in Paris, he keeps an ever-sensitive finger on the world's pulse. A few years ago, he was warning of the pressure on oil supplies from explosive economic growth in Asia. In 2007, he was among the first to spot that China 's emissions of greenhouse gases were about to overtake America's - a key factor in world talks on climate change. Last year, he made another striking prediction: he forecast the eclipse of an unchallenged energy giant. Saudi Arabia would shortly be overtaken as the world's biggest producer of crude oil by its most important client, the United States, he said. In a world consumed with fears over financial crisis, joblessness, war in Syria, and international jihad, the academic predictions of people like Mr Birol tend to get overlooked. Yet as chief economist of the International Energy Agency (and, like a surprising number of the world's most important men, a Turk) he is closer to the action on all those issues than many care to realise. The belief that the world's economy, security and geopolitics are subordinate to America's need for oil is a truism so universally acknowledged that it is regurgitated on every concerned news site the web over. Yet this is what he said in his annual outlook on the important trends of the moment: "By around 2020, the United States is projected to become the largest global oil producer," he wrote. "The result is a continued fall in US oil imports, to the extent that North America becomes a net oil exporter around 2030. "The United States, which currently imports around 20 per cent of its total energy needs, becomes all but self-sufficient in net terms ‚Äì a dramatic reversal of the trend seen in most other energy-importing countries." Far from sending its armies round the world to secure oil, in other words, before long it will be sending marketing consultants to sell it. A dramatic reversal indeed: it seems like only yesterday that every commentator was talking about Peak Oil, the theory that the world's biggest reserves had all been discovered and that the planet's booming population would all soon be scrapping over the dribbles that still came out of the pipelines that remained. Now, with fracking technology revolutionising output in the United States - soon to be followed by other countries - that talk has dried up rather quicker than the pipelines ever did. The effects on the countries concerned, particularly those belonging to the OPEC oil cartel, are just starting to be realised. The Saudis, for example, have begun to notice. ‚ÄúOur country is facing continuous threat because of its almost total dependency on oil,‚Äù Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, the country's most prominent businessman, wrote in an open letter to the oil minister and his own uncle, King Abdullah, in the summer, urging them to wake up to the danger. ‚ÄúThe world is increasingly less dependent on oil from OPEC countries including the kingdom." By the time new talks with Iran over its nuclear programme were announced in the autumn, such sensitive issues had even reached the ever-cautious Saudi press. Moreover, writers had begun to notice that the issue wasn't just economic - important though it is for Saudi Arabia's oil-dependent economy and public finances for oil sales to keep up, prices to remain stable, and the cash to keep rolling in. It has been lost on no-one that the United States in general, and President Barack Obama in particular, is less concerned nowadays to soothe Saudi Arabia's highly-strung nerves on regional politics than it used to be. The outcome of those talks, a deal about which Saudi Arabia remains deeply nervous, was one result. Royal spokesmen have fired off an increasingly furious series of warnings of the dangers the United States is running by making concessions to Iran, as well as by not taking the military route to regime change in Syria, the biggest threat to peace in the Middle East. The Saudi Gazette, for one, made the linkage clear in a piece by its energy analyst, Syed Rashid Husain. "Roles are getting switched," he wrote. "Global energy geopolitics is undergoing a major metamorphosis ‚Äì as manifested by recent regional political developments. After all, Washington is no more that dependent on Middle Eastern crude supplies ‚Äì as it was until a few years back." The fall-out between the United States and Saudi Arabia has been several years in the making, but it accelerated in 2011 when Mr Obama let an uprising on the streets of Cairo push President Hosni Mubarak, a longstanding ally of both countries, from office. In the United States, this was hardly controversial, and in many ways Mr Obama could have done little else: as early as 2005, the Bush administration had been demanding democratic reform in Egypt, something that Mr Mubarak had steadfastly refused to implement, and Mr Obama had repeated a pro-reform message in his first speech in the Middle East, in Cairo itself, in June 2009. In Riyadh, though, the decision was seen as a personal betrayal of the honour code, and a geopolitical folly, particularly when it was followed immediately by the rise of the Muslim Brotherhood and political Islam. Saudi Arabia might be seen elsewhere as the global heart of political Islam, but to its royal rulers the Brotherhood is a menace. Mr Obama is apparently undeterred. Since then, he has gone further - in the world-view of the Arab Gulf States with their historical, sectarian and ideological rivalries with Tehran - by opening up to the new Iranian president, Hassan Rouhani. When Saudi Arabia refused to take up its due seat at the UN Security Council, its leaders made clear that it was at America that the snub was largely directed, citing failures over Syria, Palestine and "nuclear non-proliferation", a reference to the Israeli and Iranian nuclear programmes. It has, of course, lived happily with the Israeli nuclear deterrent for years. In public, Saudi officials remain sanguine about its oil exports and downplay the connection of energy to America's change of posture. They prefer to portray it as a sort of global American funk. Leo Drollas, director of the Centre for Global Energy Studies, a think-tank originally founded by the Saudis, pointed out that Saudi Arabia's own oil exports had not been affected by the growth of fracking in the US, since the type of light crude oil that process produced was replacing Nigerian and Algerian supplies, not Saudi ones. Saudi Arabia itself was a joint investor in American oil, he said. However, he said, growth in American production had had a wider effect. "Peak oil has receded from the consciousness of the oil industry and beyond," he said. The decline in panic over global supplies compared with a few years ago has shifted perspectives in a different way than just reducing dependence on Saudi exports. Since sanctions were toughened against Iran, its own oil sales have fallen by a substantial million barrels per day - one principle reason for the economic crisis seen by some as having brought it to the negotiating table. Analysts say that volume of loss to the world market could not have been sustained, because of its boost to prices, without the extra supplies fracking is bringing to the market. Saudi Arabia has increased production to match, keeping prices stable, but new fields being developed in neighbouring Iraq and the rise in importance of gas have also made its role less vital. And now all that Iranian oil may sooner rather than later end up back on the market. Some suggest Saudi Arabia might cut its production, hiking world prices, as a retaliatory action. But even were it to do so - and it has given no indication of it - it might itself be the worst victim. Saudi has some slack to reduce its own income from oil and keep its budget in the black, but not so much. With America no longer standing so firmly behind its old alliances, the Arab Middle East is simultaneously excited and terrified. An Arab elite which has long encouraged its people to a frenzy of anti-Americanism is now often hysterically accusing America of withdrawing from the region, even while "the street" cheers that withdrawal on. In America, most opinion polls suggest that for the "American street" withdrawal from a region which has seen billions of dollars spent, thousands of American lives lost and seemingly nothing but humiliation meted out in return cannot come fast enough. But will the Middle East really be left alone? Perhaps we should leave the last word to Mr Birol. His 2013 report was out this month. "The centre of gravity of energy demand is switching decisively to the emerging economies," he concludes. "China dominates the picture within Asia, before India takes over from 2020 as the principal engine of growth." China has for some years been the biggest investor in Iran's oil and gas industry. But in one of his last major tours before stepping down at the turn of this year, Wen Jiabao, the previous prime minister, went on an unprecedented tour of "the other side" - America's historic Gulf allies - Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. The connection between oil and geopolitics is never weak. It's just that it sometimes changes its appearance. 
Ireland will become the first eurozone country to exit a stringent bailout programme this weekend, as the ‚Ç¨85bn (¬£72bn) loan facility orchestrated by the International Monetary Fund, the European commission and the European Central Bank formally expires. As Irish government ministers prepared to mark the bailout exit on Friday morning, the vice president of the European Union said it was a mistake that the state gave a blanket guarantee to the country's debt ridden banks ‚Äì precipitating a rescue call to the troika that rescued Ireland from collapse. Olli Rehn told Irish television that he had been shocked by the level of banking debt that almost dragged the country over the financial precipice before its bailout was secured in November 2010. Although the guarantee to shore up the banks that lent billions to property speculators was "water under the bridge", Rehn said it had been wrong to give them so much money. The Fine Gael-Labour government will talk up the departure from the bailout programme as evidence that its austerity programme has been successful in restoring international confidence in Ireland. But Sinn Fein's finance spokesman, Pearse Doherty, said that while the troika of IMF, EU and ECB officials were leaving Dublin, "the troika mindset remains firm in Government Buildings". Doherty predicted that there would be further austerity cuts long after the bailout programme was over and the troika had gone. "They bailed out the banks and unfortunately over the three years it was the Irish people that suffered," he said. The general mood in Dublin remains one of resignation after three years of cuts in social welfare and state programmes with no visible euphoria on the streets. Michael McMorrow, a self-employed Dubliner, said: "It does appear that there are small signs of improvement ‚Äì unemployment going down a little, property market starting to move a little, dormant shop units waking up a little, the tide of new charity shops in Dun Laoghaire slowing down a little. "But, scratch the surface and we're petrified that at any moment it'll all come crashing down again with the next instalment of financial or banking chaos. It still feels that we've no control and that we're just biding our time until the forces that have savaged our savings, our salaries and our security fly out of control again." He added: "I'd love to believe that leaving the bailout is genuinely a step into the light, and maybe it is, but I'm too scarred to raise my hopes just yet." Enda Kenny, the country's prime minister, will make a live televised address to the public on Sunday night after a weekend of frenetic government activity as the coalition tries to emphasize the importance of the bailout exit. Richard Bruton, the Irish employment minister, is emphasizing Ireland's strength in the hi-tech and food sector as evidence of the Republic exporting its way out of the crisis. In an address inside Government Buildings, Bruton said the government has created ‚Ç¨2.5bn in loans for new businesses to fill the void created by Irish banks reluctant to lend to SMEs and entrepreneurs. Bruton described enterprises and workers as the "true heroes" who battled their way through the economic crisis. He said that the fact Intel's new chip was manufactured in Ireland was a "mark of the journey" Ireland had been on over the past three years. The minister said that over the past 12 months there had been a 4% increase in private sector employment but acknowledged that unemployment was still high at 12.5% of the overall workforce. On the taxpayer-rescued Irish banks, Bruton accepted that the banking sector was "not lending to the levels that we would like". He said bank refusal rates on loans to businesses were still high compared with other parts of Europe. Bruton, however, stressed that refusal rates over the last two and a half years had fallen from 30% to 20%. The banks are some of the biggest hate figures among the general population after tens of billions of euros were pumped into a sector that got into lethal debt levels because they were lending vast sums to builders and property speculators. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Two years ago I posted a graph with¬†projections of when payroll employment would return to pre-recession levels (see:¬†Sluggish Growth and Payroll Employment¬†from November 2011).In 2011, I¬†argued we'd continue to see sluggish growth (back¬†in 2011¬†many analysts were forecasting another US recession - those forecasts were wrong).¬† On the graph I posted two lines - one with payroll growth of 125,000 payroll jobs added per month (the pace in 2011), and another line with 200,000 payroll jobs per month.¬† The following graph is an update with reported payroll growth through November 2013.The dashed red line is 125,000 payroll jobs added per month. The dashed blue line is 200,000 payroll jobs per month.¬† Both projections are from November 2011. So far the economy has tracked just below the blue line (200,000 payroll jobs per month). Click on graph for larger image.Calculated Risk Right now it appears payrolls will exceed the pre-recession peak in mid-2014.Currently there are about 1.3 million fewer payroll jobs than before the recession started, and at the recent pace of job growth it will take¬†about 7 months to reach the previous peak.¬†¬†¬†Of course¬†this doesn't include population growth and new entrants into the workforce (the workforce has continued to grow).Note: There are 760 thousand¬†fewer private sector payroll jobs than before the recession started.¬†At the recent pace of private sector job growth, the private sector could be back at the pre-recession peak¬†in March 2014.
This†WSJ article about†precious metals hedge funds highlights a very dangerous idea that became all too popular in recent years ñ the myth that unproductive assets should be a major component of any portfolio. †This became a very popular idea among big hedge fund names in recent years as goldís rally led many to believe that they could better protect their portfolios by establishing substantial stakes in gold and other precious metals. This idea became even more popular as many prominent people assumed that QE and its ìmoney printingî would cause runaway inflation. †Of course, they were not only†misinterpreting how QE works, but they were misinterpreting†how the monetary system works†and that led them to construct their portfolios poorly. To be fair, gold and silver havenít performed poorly over a longer time frame. †This is more a case of ìwhat have you done for me latelyî, but weíre now pretty deep into a disastrous bear market in precious metals. † $10,000 invested in a 50/50 gold/silver portfolio at the beginning of 2010 is down 25%. PragCap Now, I donít mind a small stake in gold and thereís†even some logic behind such a position†in a negative real interest rate environment, but be wary of anyone whoís†selling the idea that you should pile your savings into gold and silver. †This has the potential to be a very dangerous way to construct a portfolio and in my opinion itís largely based on misunderstandings of the monetary system and the financial world more broadly.
Flickr/HBarrisonWe've had a few ugly days in the markets this week. But so far today? Not much is going on market wise. The yen has fallen to a 5-year low against the dollar. But other than that, not much. US futures are basically flat, as are European markets. Will see if there's bleeding again today once trading in the US whirrs to life.
