Joseph Weisenthal, Business InsiderMilan, Italy ó Good morning from Italy, the most indebted country in Europe. It's election day! All day and for half of the day tomorrow, Italian citizens will be going to the polls to elect a completely new government. The winner of the last election was Silvio Berlusconi, but he was basically forced out of office in late 2011, when Italian borrowing costs hit the roof. His replacement Mario Monti, successfully introduced reforms, and got borrowing costs down, but thanks to his tax hikes, became an incredibly unpopular person. Now Berlusconi is trying to make a comeback, a prospect that scares the hell out of markets and other leaders, given his antagonism towards the rest of the Europe, and the fact that Italy has so much debt. Any loss of credibility and a rise in borrowing costs could start the whole crisis again. Berlusconi is seeing running in a close 2nd place, and unlikely to actually surpass Pier Luigi Bersani, the center-left front runner. A victory for Bersani, in which he forms an alliance with Mario Monti, is the outcome that Europe and financial markets would like to see But there's a chance that Berlusconi could pull it off! Altogether, there are 3 scenarios that could shock the world. They are: Berlusconi wins: Berlusconi is running probably between 3-5 points in the polls. That's a pretty consistent deficit, so he's clearly in 2nd place, but you never know how things could break on election day. We've seen insiders put his odds at winning at maybe just over 10%. If he won, Italy's reform path would be shot, its relationship with its neighbors blown, and markets would tank. Beppe Grillo really surges: The candidate who is capturing the most attention and enthusiasm is blogger/comedian/populist/anti-banker Beppe Grillo. His new "5-Star" movement is a protest movement that's appealing to the young and angry (thought not just the young and angry... we've also met professionals who like him due to his anti-corruption message). In the last two weeks, he's seemingly gained daily in private polls, and he drew a crowd of 800,000 in Rome. He's probably going to get at least 20% of the vote. But if his momentum continues through the weekend, and he draws more than 25%, then watch out. This will be a huge platform for a real protest candidate. Monti folds: The unpopular Mario Monti is in the race, but has no chance of winning. However, his support will be needed, most likely, to form a coalition government with Bersani. But if Monti's party fails to get 8% of the vote, then they're ineligible for government, and the coalition is shot. Watch to see if he totally folds. If any of the above happen, watch out. There will be a feeling of major Italian backsliding.
Kevin Smith/Business InsiderWe've tried electronic cigarettes before and weren't too pleased with the experience. That's why when Logic E-Cigs reached out to Business Insider and claimed to have a better e-cigarette than other models I was excited to try it out. Logic offers several types of electronic cigarettes but I tried the rechargable version called the power series. One Logic Platinum e-cigarette equals two packs of traditional tobacco cigarettes. Logic claims that its e-cigs allow for 2.5 seconds per puff for 400 puffs total compared to similar products that typically only offer 1.5 second puffs for 400 puffs, which results in less vapor. Using the Logic wasn't a bad experience for me personally. Logic is slightly longer than a normal cigarette. I tried both the menthol and regular flavors. The Logic's battery lasted much longer than the NJOY. I've been using it sparingly for almost two months and it has not run out of battery. The pull felt substantial and I exhaled a good amount of vapor. When you first pull on the Logic you'll notice an instant nicotine hit resulting in a small buzz. But after using it frequently the original buzz was almost non-existent. Logic Some other Business Insider folks tried out the Logic too and here is what they had to say: Money Game Editor, Sam Ro said, "You get a nice thick cloud of smoke, which is great if you like blowing smoke rings. But it doesn't taste like tobacco, and you really don't get the nicotine fix." Another reporter remarked, that when they took a pull on the Logic they felt like they wanted to throw up. The reporter believes that this could have been a result of the taste. The nauseousness could have been a result of the reporter not being a regular smoker. Deputy Editor Gus Lubin commented, "It tastes better than NJOY but looks kind of silly. Anyway neither is as satisfying as a real cigarette ‚Äî nor as healthy as smoking nothing." In a perfect world, electronic cigarettes would replace traditional cigarettes, helping to make smokers slightly more healthy. Overall smoking in general is a terrible habit, one which I wish I wasn't so addicted to. For now, I prefer the taste and satisfaction that comes from a regular cigarette until I can kick the habit for good.
Wikimedia/Presidenza della Repubblica and Wikimedia/ESMTWhile we have discussed the strategic implications of tomorrow's critical Italian elections previously (An Italian "Hung Parliament" - Europe's Biggest Political Risk), the actual chronology of events of tomorrow's Italian elections which proceed through Monday is somewhat nebulous. So courtesy of JPM's Alex White, here is the complete 10 step walk-thru of what to expect starting tomorrow, and ending, perhaps, with the appointment of a new President in May, unless of course there is a slight detour... The following is an indicative outline of how events may unfold in Italy over the coming days. Some significant differences and delays are possible.
Consumer culture is born.Americans weren't always addicted to buying things. Long before U.S. consumers racked up $11.3 trillion in aggregate debt, people used to save money for things they actually needed. But in the age of plenty that followed World War I, corporations countered the threat of overproduction with a manipulative psychological strategy. "We must shift America from a needs, to a desires culture," wrote Paul Mazur of Lehman Brothers. "People must be trained to desire, to want new things even before the old had been entirely consumed. We must shape a new mentality in America. Man's desires must overshadow his needs." This conspiracy, enabled by new sophistication in advertising and supported by the government, was shockingly effective. For more on the origins of consumer culture, we turn to the BBC's†excellent documentary,†"Century Of Self."
Sheryl SandbergYesterday, Kevin Roose of New York Magazine predicted that Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg will leave the company within a year. Roose based his prediction on several factors, most of which are logical: Roose also suggests that staying much longer at Facebook could only hurt Sandberg. A privacy scandal could develop, for example. Or the company could falter. That's one point in which I, for one, disagree. I think if Sandberg were to leave Facebook now, there would be a sense of unfinished business. The company's stock is still about 30% below the level at which the IPO priced last spring, and my guess is that Sandberg would like to stay at the company until it is viewed as an unblemished success--or at least until the IPO has been completely forgotten. (The stock price is not in any way Sandberg's responsibility, and she probably understands this. But I'll bet she still feels a sense that she has work left to do.) So my guess is that Roose's time frame is too short, that Sandberg will be at Facebook for more than another year--perhaps as long as 3-5 more years. But I would not be shocked if he were right and she left within a year. One thing I definitely agree with Roose about is that Sandberg has a future in politics. Whether she would be willing to put up with all the ridiculous crap that goes along with elected office remains to be seen. But there's at least one big glass ceiling left to shatter in this country, and Sheryl Sandberg is in an excellent position to shatter it. SEE ALSO: Sheryl Sandberg Reveals Some Deeply Troubling Stats About Women
Albert H. Teich / Shutterstock.comIn a few days, some $85 billion in annual, across-the-board spending cuts are about to hit every department in every agency of the U.S. government. There's no plan to avert the cuts, even though it's widely agreed that they're bad for the economy, and could hobble the defense department, along with many government services that many people rely on. Who is to blame? That's the question that Bob Woodward asks in his new Washington Post report. He writes: What is the non-budget wonk to make of this? Who is responsible? What really happened? Woodward's answer: Obama is responsible! Citing his reporting from when he wrote his book, Obama came up with the idea of sequester that was 100 percent cuts. Protestations to the contrary are totally bunk. Woodward concludes: In fact, the final deal reached between Vice President Biden and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) in 2011 included an agreement that there would be no tax increases in the sequester in exchange for what the president was insisting on: an agreement that the nationís debt ceiling would be increased for 18 months, so Obama would not have to go through another such negotiation in 2012, when he was running for reelection. So when the president asks that a substitute for the sequester include not just spending cuts but also new revenue, he is moving the goal posts. His call for a balanced approach is reasonable, and he makes a strong case that those in the top income brackets could and should pay more. But that was not the deal he made. The argument is silly. You can't start a discussion about the sequester without starting with the broader context. The sequester was offered during the GOP's unprecedented threat to not raise the debt ceiling, potentially putting the U.S. into default. If offering spending cuts two years down the road is the only way to avoid such a calamity then a U.S. President should offer that 100 times out of 100. But is it really Obama's "fault"? The sequester wouldn't even be a term anyone knows if it weren't for the debt ceiling nonsense. But it gets worse. It was clearly agreed that the sequester wouldn't be the end deal. Right after the debt ceiling fight ended, there was the establishment of a super-committee that would seek to find an equivalent level of deficit reduction without the haphazard, illogical across the board cuts proposed in the sequester. The super-committee failed to come up with anything, but there was an established attempt to avert the end deal. And the argument gets even worse yet, because in politics and in the real world, attempting to renegotiate deals is what you do when there are preferable alternatives. There's nothing wrong with Obama (or the GOP) offering sequester alternatives, since people don't think the sequester is a good thing. The GOP would like the cuts to fall mostly on non-defense discretionary spending. Obama would like deficit reduction to involve more revenue (closing tax loopholes and so forth). That's not trickery. That's what you do when you think there are better alternatives. The sequester was a great idea compared to a 2011 default. The White House should be proud of defusing that bomb. But now there are better alternatives to the sequester, and they should be pursued.
Wikimedia/BektourRepublican offices are passing around a new column from¬†Washington Post columnist Bob Woodward, in which he reiterates past reporting from his book last summer and blames President Barack Obama and White House chief of staff Jack Lew for the implementation of the sequester. Notably, Woodward also blatantly accuses Lew of being "not accurate" in his testimony to become the next Treasury Secretary when he said that the sequester "was not something that the administration was pushing at that moment.‚Äù In his piece, Woodward asserts that when Obama claims he always wanted new revenues in a deal to avert the sequester instead of just spending cuts, he is "moving the goal posts." Here's Woodward's key paragraph¬†that House Speaker John Boehner's office is highlighting (emphasis theirs): ‚ÄúIn fact, the final deal reached between Vice President Biden and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) in 2011 included an agreement that there would be no tax increases in the sequester in exchange for what the president was insisting on: an agreement that the nation‚Äôs debt ceiling would be increased for 18 months, so Obama would not have to go through another such negotiation in 2012, when he was running for reelection.¬†So when the president asks that a substitute for the sequester include not just spending cuts but also new revenue, he is moving the goal posts‚Ä¶¬†[T]hat was not the deal he made.‚Äù The White House pushed back on that reporting by Woodward. White House communications director Dan Pfeiffer noted on Twitter that Woodward reported in his book,¬†The Price of Politics, that Boehner told Rep. Dave Camp to offer $600 billion in revenue during the debt-ceiling negotiations. @samsteinhpOn p 362 Woodward reports Boehner told Dave Camp to offer $600b in REVENUE to replace the sequester twitter.com/pfeiffer44/sta‚Ä¶ And in announcing the deal to raise the debt ceiling on July 31, 2011, Obama did say that new revenues would be "necessary" to avert the sequester.¬† Both parties appear to be trying to get a leg up on shaping the blame in the event the cuts of the sequester kick in beginning next week. Republicans have used Woodward's book¬†as an attempt to frame the sequester as Obama's brainchild. The White House and Democrats, meanwhile,¬†have rejected that and pointed to public polling that shows¬†a majority of Americans agree with their approach to include revenues in a deal to avert the sequester. Woodward doesn't exactly let Republicans off the hook, either. "A majority of Republicans did vote for the Budget Control Act that summer, which included the sequester," Woodward wrote. "Key Republican staffers said they didn‚Äôt even initially know what a sequester was ‚Äî because the concept stemmed from the budget wars of the 1980s, when they were not in government."
Milan, Italy ó Here's just another reminder that politics in other parts of the world make the U.S. system look civil. The cover of right wing newspaper Libero offers up a nice drawing of Angela Merkel with a gigantic posterior, and Mario Monti crawling out from under it. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider The message is pretty clear. Mario Monti, the technocrat PM who was installed after Berlusconi, is a tool of the Germans. Also recall that Berlusconi has referred to Merkel as a "Lard Ass" which this is evidently a reference to. And here's a closer look at the image. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider Two other quick things to note. The top of the paper is about Berlusconi's promise to refund the IMU tax, which we wrote about here. And the headline above the drawing is about Monti costing Italy 1,000s of jobs per day.
Milan, Italy ‚Äî Italy's national election is starting tomorrow, and all of the talk is about exactly one man: Beppe Grillo. Grillo is a comedian-turned-populist, anti-bank, anti-Euro crusader. He makes bankers queasy. And he's surging in the polls. Really. There are no official public polls right now, but we've seen private polls that get passed around by bankers and in just the last several days his support is booming. He's adding support by the day. For awhile we've tried to figure out who a US equivalent to Grillo would be. Some have compared him to a George Carlin or Bill Maher type. But actually an apt comparison would be the pseudonymous Tyler Durden, who runs the well-known Wall Street doom blog ZeroHedge. The key thing is that Grillo's own success as a public figure started from his blog, Blog di Beppe Grillo. It's from that blog that his railing on bankers and politicians became a movement, which has now turned into a huge political party gathering support by the day. Yesterday his "Tsunami" tour rolled into Rome, and drew a crowd of at least 100,000. The mainstream politicians are attacking him. For those around the world who are frustrated by bankers and elite institutions, the current avatar of frustration is Beppe Grillo. Here's video of him in Rome last night. 
Sometimes even the Masters of the Universe need their own sanctuary from the high-flying world of Wall Street. Enter Manhattan's exclusive members-only clubs. ¬† No, we're not talking about the ones behind the velvet ropes. We're talking about the ones you might not even notice when you walk by. These hideaways, which tend to come with steep fees and require an invite to join, can offer members a place to dine, relax and hangout. They have some pretty sweet amenities, too. ¬† Many of these clubs prohibit business meetings and the use of cellphones, offering a reprieve from the work day. Others aren't as strict on conducting business. ¬† ¬†¬† We've selected 10 of the city's most exclusive clubs and detailed why they would be ideal for the Wall Street crowd. Getting into the club is up to you.¬†
Sometimes even the Masters of the Universe need their own sanctuary from the high-flying world of Wall Street. Enter Manhattan's exclusive members-only clubs. ¬† No, we're not talking about the ones behind the velvet ropes. We're talking about the ones you might not even notice when you walk by. These hideaways, which tend to come with steep fees and require an invite to join, can offer members a place to dine, relax and hangout. They have some pretty sweet amenities, too. ¬† Many of these clubs prohibit business meetings and the use of cellphones, offering a reprieve from the work day. Others aren't as strict on conducting business. ¬† ¬†¬† We've selected 10 of the city's most exclusive clubs and detailed why they would be ideal for the Wall Street crowd. Getting into the club is up to you.¬†
Milan, Italy ‚Äî Italy's big election starts tomorrow (voting occurs on Sunday and Monday) and the general thinking is that center-left candidate Pier Luigi Bersani is going to emerge as the winner. Well, technically because this is a parliamentary system his party is running, and the thinking is that his party, the PD, will win the most votes. But that's just what's most likely. People still think that Silvio Berlusconi has a shot of winning, as he's only a few points behind in the polls, and there are still between 20-30% of voters undecided. How has Berlusconi made it a race? Simple. Promising to refund a tax. Free money for voters. If you look at Berlusconi campaign literature, the very first point is Aboliamo l'IMU. The IMU is a small property tax that the Mario Monti government levied on all homeowners that took in about 4 billion euros. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider I spoke to some people who work for Berlusconi's campaign, who explained the salience of the issue. If you look on Wikipedia, you'll see that Italy has one of the highest homeownership rates in the world At 78% it's well above the US level at 67%. And so if you thought homeowners were a powerful special interest in the US, then they're even more so in Italy. So Monti offended a huge bloc of voters by passing this tax, and now Berlusconi is promising to refund it. But there's a deeper symbolism to the tax. The tax represents, to some extent, a concession to the outside world. Brussels likes the tax, along with the rest of Mario Monti's fiscal consolidation moves. Financial markets like the tax. The tax isn't just a hit on homeowners, it represents an imposition on homeowners for the benefit of the outside world. This is the key vein of anger that Berlusconi's campaign attempts to tap into. If there's one thing that Berlusconi is not, it's the Merkel/Draghi/Lagarde-approved candidate. And he's hoping that this catapults him to victory. Here's a poster outside of Berlusconi's Milan HQ. Note the top: Rimborso Dell'IMU. Joseph Weisenthal, Business Insider
Photo courtesy Andrew LoAndrew Lo is a Professor of finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.† He's also the director of MIT's Laboratory for Financial Engineering. Most people on Wall Street know him as the leading mind in hedge funds and financial engineering. Time Magazine recently named him to its list of the 100 most influential people in the world.† And it wouldn't be exaggerating to say that his latest project could change the world.† It involves using collateralized debt obligations to cure cancer.†We wrote about this last year. But in case you missed it, the idea would be†using†"research based obligations" or RBO bonds, that you could divide into tranches with different risk levels based on stages of research into cancer drugs. Lower rated, higher yield notes would be available at the beginning of a drug trial, with progressively less riskier notes as the trial proceeds. In other words, the principles that made the world's financial markets significantly more liquid, more efficient, and more accessible could cause financing and interest to explode in cancer research. Lo believes this idea could have broad applications.† If it works with cancer, than it could also be usd to propel alternative energy and end climate change. We recently spoke with Professor Lo about the state of the markets, why investing must now be treated like exercise, and what we can expect from his latest work. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ BI: Stocks are near their all-time highs. †Where do you think they head next?AL: While the economy is recovering ó†and thatís been good news for stocks, obviously stocks have done well over the last year ó I think there are a few issues that have to be resolved before we can get back on a more reasonable trajectory of long term growth.Those two issues happen to be the debt ceiling debate (i.e. the sequester) and then the problems with the European sovereign debt crisis. Neither of those issues has been resolved yet, Theyíre still sort of hanging over us. The hope is that weíre gonna have reasonable outcomes in both cases, but itís going to take months before we really get a chance to fully realize what those outcomes are going to be. Volatility, especially in equity markets, is quite low, but I think at the same time the volatility of volatility is pretty high. Thereís still a fair bit of uncertainty with respect to what might happen over the next few months, more so than in the past. Obviously thereís always random events that are going to affect markets from time to time, but nothing quite so systemic as this debt ceiling debate and the European sovereign debt crisis. In both cases youíre going to have some very significant macroeconomic intervention that will have to emerge in order to address those problems.So those are two very big shoes that are likely to drop, and weíre going to need to get past that before we can focus on business as usual. BI: What's the biggest misunderstanding people have about the financial markets?† AL: Probably the biggest misunderstanding is that financial markets operate like a machine, and that if you can only understand the different gears and different underlying parameters, then you will have the recipe for success.Markets are not nearly that mechanistic. Theyíre driven by human reaction ó†fear, greed, anxiety. It doesnít mean there isnít any logic to the markets, in fact quite the contrary, I think that biological systems have a logic all of their own. But what it does mean is that the simple rules of thumb for managing investments ó 60:40 stocks and bonds, invest in the long run, diversify ó I think all those ideas are going to be challenged by the complexity of current market conditions.It doesnít meant that those other ideas are wrong. The challenge is to try to understand when they apply and when they are suspended because of strong macroeconomic shocks that affect everybody at the same time and create the kind of herd mentality that weíve seen †over the past several years.BI: Did the recession permanently change anything about the way we invest?† AL: I think that we are still in a period where there are going to be more policy interventions by central bankers and governments. Just recently we saw the G-20 meet and talk about currency markets, and the claim is that they will allow currency markets to move with market forces.But we all know that over the last several years thereíve been any number of foreign currency interventions by central banks because foreign currency exchange rates actually have a big impact on trade deficits, so itís virtually impossible to prevent that from happening, and the more complex the situation is with regard to various different kinds of trade imbalances and market conditions, the more likely it is that youíre going to see these kind of interventions. We just happen to be in a period of very activist central bankers and governments, and itís one thing if intervening is an unusual and unprecedented activity, but weíve already gone past that stage, and now itís a very common thing for central bankers to engage in quantitative easing.So in a period like this, it will be the case we will see more interventions until such time as a new normal emerges where growth becomes more robust, and we then proceed to a situation where we can step back and allow the economy to function on its own.BI: How should someone just entering their prime earnings years think about investing these days?AL: I would tell them what a number of experts in other fields will tell the public, which is that youíve got to get smarter and more active about your financial health. In the same way that doctors and nutritionists tell us that weíve got to be more proactive about reading the labels and making sure we get enough vitamins and fiber, the good kind of cholesterol and not the bad kind, and so on, we have to be more proactive about our fin wellbeing, we have to understand what the fin landscape looks like in the new world order, various kind of investment vehicles, we have to understand what the risks are behind some of those vehicles.A case in point is ETFs.† Theyíre becoming more popular now.† But there are some rather complex ETFs, like inverse leveraged equity ETFs, that can actually behave in very counterintuitive manners. So I think overall, we need to tell investors they need to be more proactive about engaging with financial markets and with financial advisors.† And with friends and family, to think more carefully and more regularly about their investments and ultimate financial objectives. If they educate themselves and take the time to really understand what their options are and how to go about achieving their life goals with the various different financial vehicles available to them, I think that the outcome could be quite good, but it does mean more effort, and I think thatís true all across the board. I think itís more complicated now to engage in proper health, itís more complicated to buy consumer electronics, even our phones give us more options than ever before with our apps. So I think we need to be more educated consumers about our financial products.BI: How can we do that? Are there any particular resources you would recommend? AL: I think there are many sources of useful information, what I usually do is look at all the major market indices: stocks, bonds currencies and commodities, and then I look at the political landscape in which those market conditions are evolving and try to get a sense of what kinds of risk exposures iím engaged in in my portfolio. I think thatís really the key now adays. You might still be skeptical, as many people have been, about whether you can generate true alpha or excess return, and I can understand why ppl are skeptical about that, itís hard to identify good managers.But even if youíre skeptical about good alpha, you shouldnít be nearly as skeptical about sigma, in other words about risk. You can be passive in terms of your investment approach to alpha ó that is, you can put your money in index funds. But remember that being passive about alpha doesnít mean you have to be passive about risk. you need to be more active about managing your risk given the volatility roller coaster ride all of us are on, like it or not. So keeping your money in cash is no longer the answer, keeping your money passively invested in the S&amp;P 500 is no longer the answer, one has to be more proactive about managing risks and trying to get diversification in a broader set of markets both long and short. †BI: What is the status of the cancer research financing project?AL: Thatís a really interesting initiative that I never expected to be involved in personally. My focus and my expertise is in financial investments and financial engineers.† So when my coauthors and I wrote the paper on how to apply methods like portfolio theory and securitization to raise money for cancer research, we really did it as an academic exercise with the hope that the stakeholders in the industry would take note and ultimately implement some of these ideas.But the reception that weíve gotten from all the various different stakeholders has been so positive that we are actually now engaged in more detailed research, with more data, about the impact of providing guarantees through the credit default swap markets, of engaging in various kinds of new business models to develop these megafunds, that weíre quite excited that we think something could happen.So in addition to that additional research that weíre doing, weíre also in the process of organizing a conference here at MIT in June, and this conference is going to take place over two days where weíre going to be inviting all the major stakeholders: pharmaceutical companies, biotech entrepreneurs, investors, credit rating agencies, oncologists, and patient advocacy groups to come together and look very hard at this issue of whether itís possible to develop a truly sustainable private sector solution, a for-profit effort at raising resources to engage in biomedical innovations, particularly in cancer.And so far weíve gotten a fantastic reception to this, so weíre expecting a conference of between 75 and 100 people to show up to try and study this problem and ultimately develop actionable items and solutions that will ultimately be implemented.We were shocked because we thought it was just an academic exercise that we hoped would be of interest to some groups, we actually found it was of interest to every single group, including the pharmaceutical companies, who you might think would be threatened by having a disintermediation.Itís like the banks that were providing mortgages before securitization, why would banks welcome securitization, it would disintermediate the business that they do. But it turns out that the pharmaceutical companies feel so challenged because there isnít enough funding at the early stages of clinical research that the pipeline of new molecular entities that will ultimately become drugs, the pipeline is becoming thinner and thinner because thereís less and less venture capital money going into the industry. So theyíve actually been supportive in this effort and may very well be among the first investors if when and when these cancer megafunds get launched. †Among organizations whoíve provided support are the National Cancer Institute, which is part of NIH, and the american cancer society, both have lent their names to this conference and theyíre involved in organizing it. Itís a whoís-who of both oncology and the investment industry. So really Iím trying to bring together the folks who have the money with those who need the money, and the hope is that given that thereís so much opportunity here, ó†Iím talking about economic opportunity, Iím not talking about charity ó Iím talking about the fact that you can earn a really decent rate of return for investors by putting together large portfolios of cancer drug†projects, and I think this is a terrific opportunity for both parties to benefit. BI: Have you looked into applying this methodology to other social goods? AL: Iíve had conversations with the folks in the Energy Department about this kind of a model for alternative energy sources, and I think that our perspective is if you can create one megafund for one industry and demonstrate it in an industry as complicated as oncology, that itís possible to raise large amounts of money in the private sector with proper financial structures, then I think any number of industries will be able to figure it out and apply it to their own challenges.I think climate change is a good example where thereís so much opportunity for creating technology that will ultimately benefit the world. that as long as you can get the prop financial structure, it seems very likely that youíll be able to earn a decent rate of return. So our hope is that weíll start out with one proof of concept that the rest will follow pretty naturally BI: How does one react to being named one of the world's most influential people?AL: Iím not sure there is a way to digest that, I was very shocked and flattered to be included in such elite company, and such wide ranging company, from individuals that are highly accomplished academics to artists and comedians and politicians.Itís very humbling, and in fact I sort of view it as a responsibility now to be able to make use of that visibility, and one of the reasons why Iíve decided to push further with this cancer effort is precisely because I feel itís a way for me to use that visibility for the better and it allows me to convene this conference with a certain degree of credibility that I might not have had before, so im v grateful to time mag for this extraordinary honor, it gives me a platform now to do something even bigger.The fellow from Time magazine said that never has it been easier to gain influence, but never has it been harder to maintain influence. That was a very interesting insight I took away from the evening. † Thanks to Professor Lo for taking the time to speak with us.
An excellent piece of research by Neal Soss and Henry Mo of Credit Suisse may be found in the February 13th US Economics Digest. They used classical economic theory to examine the "elasticity" of changes in housing values and changes in the stock market with respect to personal consumption. They also examined the relationship of changes in disposable personal income to consumption. This superb work warrants discussion and examination. The implications for the recovery of the US economy and movements in our financial markets are profound. Let us get into the meat of their research. Soss and Mo examined two periods of time. The first sample period runs from 1Q93 to 2Q07. The second sample period also starts with 1Q93 and goes to 3Q12. By using these two sample periods, the Credit Suisse economists have been able to separately estimate the influence of the financial crisis on the elasticities they examine. They found that the elasticity estimates of consumption with respect to housing wealth dropped from 0.05 in the ‚Äô93-‚Äô07 period to 0.033 across the longer, ‚Äô93-‚Äô12 one that includes the financial crisis. In the case of stock market wealth, the elasticity dropped from 0.015 to 0.011. In both cases, the results indicate that the positive characteristics of wealth effects have been diminished by the financial crisis. This is intuitive and consistent with our own observations. It results from the fact that we had two simultaneous shocks in the crisis period. First, stock prices plummeted during the financial crisis and continued into a severe bear market that ended in March 2009. Simultaneously, housing values fell throughout the US in a pervasive and protracted decline. The decline in housing was bigger than just a cyclical adjustment. The credit mechanism that supports housing transactions was damaged. Subsequent events tightened credit standards and raised down payments, making this housing cycle a prolonged, self-perpetuating decline followed by a gradual, tepid recovery. The conclusions are simple. The rise in housing prices that we are currently experiencing in more than 40 states and the increase in the stock market value that we have witnessed since the March 2009 bottom have contributed little to additional personal consumption. The wealth effects have been diminished. They are measurable, thanks to the Credit Suisse analysis, and that measuring stick can now be used for some market forecasts and prognostications. Compare the wealth effects with disposable-income elasticity, and we can see how dramatic the difference is between the two time periods the authors studied. Prior to the financial crisis, the elasticity of disposable income with respect to real personal consumption expenditure per capita was 0.943. In other words, almost 95 percent of additional income resulted in personal consumption expenditures. People made more money and spent it. During the financial crisis, though, income levels declined. In addition, people were scared and raised their savings rates. For the extended, ‚Äô93-‚Äô12 period, including the financial crisis, the elasticity level reached 0.99. That is, under present circumstances nearly 100 percent of income in the US is spent on personal consumption, when it is adjusted into real terms. Translating that result into the distinction between wealth effects that have been diminished and income effects that have been increased explains why the US economic recovery is continuing at the present slow pace. Take the issue that we have harped on for some time: the two-percent payroll tax hike. That is a direct impact on 134 million working Americans. It takes two percent of their first $113k in annual pay and removes their ability to spend it. One of the most horrible political decisions made by President Obama, the Democratic leadership in the Senate, and Republican leadership in the House was that two-percent payroll tax restoration. The Credit Suisse research validates that view. Additionally, compare $125 billion in annual taxation of American payrolls with the current development involving the gasoline tax increase. That gas hike piles on top of the payroll tax.¬† Every penny in the gasoline price equates to about a $1.25 billion consumption tax that is directly applied to the personal income of the US gasoline consumers. We now have an additional $50 billion gasoline hike tax being applied annually ‚Äì assuming the price of gasoline remains constant for the rest of the year. How can we expect the US economy to grow more robustly when we have taxed away the margins of real disposable income and then piled on a large new energy cost as a "double whammy"? Washington's tax policy dealt the first blow to the economic recovery by hiking taxes on working Americans.¬† It dealt a second blow by taxing wealthy Americans.¬† And it has dealt a third blow with a failed energy policy.¬† The failures of Washington are bearing withered fruit. It is quite possible that the economic growth rate of the US in the first half of 2013 may fall below a one-percent annual rate. What does this mean for stock markets? What does it mean for the housing recovery? We know both have been in an upward trend. In order to estimate the effects of the shifts in elasticities the Credit Suisse study identifies, we can roughly suggest that the stock market could add trillions in value and not trigger as much consumption expenditure as the two-percent payroll tax hike inhibits. Think about it this way. If the elasticity of a stock market value change is 0.01 and the elasticity of an income change is 0.99, you get nearly 100 times more consumption spending from earned income than you do from stock market added wealth effect.¬† And, to make matters worse, we have just raised taxes on both stock market investors and on earned income workers. We do not know whether the stock market is going to rise or fall. We have our estimates and believe we are in a bull market that is of a longer-term nature and is driven, in part, by the current very low interest rate policies being applied by the central banks of the world, including our Federal Reserve. We think the Fed‚Äôs policy will remain in place for several more years, because the economy is growing so slowly. Therefore, we expect the US stock market to move substantially higher as this decade progresses. We can also estimate that such a rise in stock prices will not trigger very much additional real consumption. The elasticity calculations done by Credit Suisse support this conclusion. Furthermore, if we do not see substantial, accelerating, and intensifying consumption, it becomes hard to project accelerating inflation rates for the goods and services that are being consumed. It takes rising demand to get price accelerators in place. Our conclusions are these. The stock market may go much higher, but the wealth effects that could trigger inflationary pressure will be very limited. Housing prices will rise but will have much further to go before they trigger inflationary pressure. There is a lot of room for upside movement in asset prices, while inflationary pressures will remain muted due to suppressed consumption. Stay long stocks: the bull market is not over. Stay in the bond market; interest rates are not ready to go ‚Äúshooting up.‚Äù¬† Emphasize Munis.¬† AND THOROUGHLY RESEARCH EACH AND EVERY CREDIT.¬† At very low interest rates, you do not get paid well for taking credit risk.
Since almost everyone by now understands that our most recent financial crisis was brought on by poor lending practices at Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Big Banks, I thought in this third article in my banking series for Business Insider that I would show how those poor lending practices played out within the U.S. banking industry during the crisis. Exhibit 1 tracks eight years (32 quarters) of the most important loan accounting performance indicators, allowing any layperson to hopefully gain a better understanding of what has taken place over the last several years. Again, as I have mentioned in my previous articles, all of my information and analysis can be confirmed and duplicated.† My data source is the FDIC banking data base open to the public worldwide. Jim Boswell† † † † † † † † † †† If you really want to track and understand U.S. Banking loan performance throughout our most recent crisis period, Exhibit 1 is about as good as it gets.† If you can understand Exhibit 1, you can†pretty much understand everything that has taken place in the area of problem loan processing by the U.S. banks since our latest crisis began.† You will also understand better where that processing†stands today.† Now here are several key things that you should take away as you study the Exhibit. Now with that as a basic 101 loan accounting lesson, here is what you can glean from the above Exhibit: What you cannot see from Exhibit 1 is that the $292 Billion of current non-performing assets represents 3.85% of the current total amount of U.S. Banking loan assets ($7.6 Trillion).† If for some reason this number does not seem high, donít forget that the banks have ìalready written offî $691 Billion and thus another 8.36% of their loans (i.e., using the same current loan asset number plus the amount written off as the denominator in the equation). Okay, so what does all of this really mean or what are you trying to tell us, Jim?† Well, from my professional opinion, humble or not, I say the accounting for the latest banking crisis is essentially over.† And even though the amount of non-performing assets may still seem high ($292 Billion, 3.85% of total banking loans) and still well above pre-crisis levels, I believe the $167 Billion of loan loss allowances already recognized should be sufficient to cover the actual losses associated with those non-performing assets (especially now that housing prices have stabilized and actually begun to raise again). In ending, I think it is worth mentioning that not all banks are created equalónor is their management team.† What I have presented today is a composite view of loan performance for the entire U.S. banking industry.† Using the FDICís data base one can perform the same analysis on each and every†one--large or small--of the more than 7,000 operating banks in the United States. Next week, I intend to provide Business Insider a more detailed breakdown of the above analysis, which will show how the loan performance differed during our crisis between (1) the Big Four banks (i.e., Bank of America, JPMorgan/Chase,† Citigroup, and Wells Fargoóall with more than $1 Trillion in assets; (2) the next tier of Thirteen Banks with more than $100 Billion and less than $1 Trillion in assets; and (3) the rest of the 7,000 plus operating banks in the United States. As I just mentioned, loan performance varied between bank to bank, and I think the reader will find next weeksí comparative analysis rather interesting.
Here's an interesting chart from the WonkBlog that we saw on the Real-World Economics Review Blog. It shows that Americans in the bottom 90 percent of income brackets (represented by the red line) saw their paychecks rise faster than the highest paid Americans for most of the last century. In other words, the income gap was disappearing. But then that changed in the 1970's when the incomes of the wealthiest surged. Here's some commentary from WonkBlog's Dylan Matthews: In 2007, the top 0.01 percent had an average income almost seven times that of 1917; the average income of the bottom 90 percent had barely tripled. The country has grown more unequal, not less, since then. And, interestingly, the 90-99th percentiles all saw their average income grow faster than all but the tippy-top of the top 1 percent. The divide between the rich and the rest isn‚Äôt the only gap growing, in other words. The gap between the ultra-rich and the merely rich is growing, too. WonkBlog
The Weekly Leading Index (WLI) of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) slipped again in today's update. It is now at 129.1 versus the previous week's 129.7 (revised from 129.6). See the WLI chart in the Appendix below. The WLI annualized growth indicator (WLIg) also eased, now at 7.6, down from last week's 8.4 (revised from 8.3). WLIg has been in expansion territory since mid-August of last year, but is has been trending lower the past two weeks. ECRI posts its proprietary indicators on a one-week delayed basis to the general public, but last year the company switched its focus to a version of the Big Four Economic Indicators I've been tracking for the past several months. See, for example, this November 29th Bloomberg video that ECRI continues to feature on its website -- twelve weeks later -- along with the now clearly false assertion that "Indicators used to determine official U.S. recession dates have been falling since mid-year." Achuthan pinpoints July as the business cycle peak, thus putting us in the eighth month of a recession. Here is a chart of ECRI's data that severely undermines the company's recession call -- the smoothed year-over-year percent change since 2000 of their proprietary weekly leading index. I've highlighted the 2011 date of ECRI's recession call and the hypothetical July business cycle peak, which the company claims was the start of a recession. ¬† ¬† Many of us who closely follow ECRI news saw links to the painfully funny YouTube parody of ECRI's recession call with spokesman Lakshman Achuthan portrayed as a doomed Hitler. The parody was achieved by adding clever (R-rated) captions to a scene from the 2004 film Downfall. ECRI's Recession Call: A Bet Against the Fed ECRI adamantly denied that the sharp decline of their indicators in 2010 marked the beginning of a recession. But in 2011, when their proprietary indicators were at levels higher than 2010, they made their recession call with stunning confidence bordering on arrogance: Ironically enough, on the same day ECRI forecast a recession, Chairman Bernanke announced a a new policy, Operation Twist, which was followed by QE3 in September 2012 and unlimited easing (aka QE4) in December 2012. Essentially ECRI claim that "there's nothing that policy makers can do to head it [a recession] off" was a bet against the Fed. For a few months after ECRI's recession call, their proprietary indicators cooperated with their forecast, but that has not been the case since the second half of 2012 -- hence their switch to the traditional Big Four recession indicators. ECRI's December 7th article, The Tell-Tale Chart, makes clear their public focus on the Big Four. ¬† The Big Four The Big Four Indicators that I track continue to show a slowly recovering US economy. The latest of the Four, Real Retail Sales, was released since my last ECRI update. The preliminary data for January shows a weak month-over-month gain of 0.1% following two months of 0.5% gains. The expiration of the 2% FICA tax holiday is no doubt hurting sales, and delayed tax refunds for early filers has also been suggested as an additional factor. ECRI believers will probably get a boost on March 1st when the next of the Big Four updates is released -- Real Income Less Transfer Payments. As I've pointed out previously, the dramatic increase in this indicator in November and December (the red line in the chart below) has given an overly positive skew that will be reversed when the January numbers are released. Those increases were the result of widespread shifting of early 2013 income into 2012 as a pre-Fiscal Cliff tax strategy. For an illustration of the impact of this year-end tax planning strategy in the past, see this YoY Personal Income chart and note the two pairs of tax-planning callouts in the 1990s. My Personal View... The Fiscal Cliff is behind us and the Debt Ceiling showdown has been pushed out. The Big Four Economic Indicators continue to show expansion, now including the lagging Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales report (which will also be updated on March 1st with data through December). Here is a snapshot of ECRI's version of the Big Four Economic Indicators. However, despite my rejection of ECRI's recession call, I continue to believe the US economy remains at vulnerable. However wrong ECRI might have been, recession risk remains. The greatest endogenous threat to the US economy is the ongoing impact of the expired 2% FICA tax holiday, the decline in early 2013 personal income as a result of 2012 year-end maneuvers and the increasing likelihood that sequestration will become a reality. The Advance Estimate for Q4 GDP at minus 0.1 percent bears watching. Of course, the Second and Third Estimates could adjust it higher. Certainly the upbeat report earlier this month on our Trade Balance strengthens the likelihood that the 2nd Estimate of Q4 GDP will be revised to a positive number. The Usual Caveat: The recent economic data are subject to revision, so we must view these numbers accordingly. Nevertheless, I continue to think that an ECRI retraction of their recession call is long overdue. ¬† Despite the apparent increasing irrelevance of the ECRI indicators, let's check them out. The first chart below shows the history of the Weekly Leading Index and highlights its current level. ¬† ¬† For a better understanding of the relationship of the WLI level to recessions, the next chart shows the data series in terms of the percent off the previous peak. In other words, a new weekly high registers at 100%, with subsequent declines plotted accordingly. ¬† ¬† As the chart above illustrates, only once has a recession occurred without the index level achieving a new high -- the two recessions, commonly referred to as a "double-dip," in the early 1980s. Our current level is 11.9% off the most recent high, which was set over five years ago in June 2007. We're now tied with the previously longest stretch between highs, which was from February 1973 to April 1978. But the index level rose steadily from the trough at the end of the 1973-1975 recession to reach its new high in 1978. The pattern in ECRI's indictor is quite different, and this has no doubt been a key factor in their business cycle analysis. The WLIg Metric The best known of ECRI's indexes is their growth calculation on the WLI. For a close look at this index in recent months, here's a snapshot of the data since 2000. ¬† ¬† Now let's step back and examine the complete series available to the public, which dates from 1967. ECRI's WLIg metric has had a respectable record for forecasting recessions and rebounds therefrom. The next chart shows the correlation between the WLI, GDP and recessions. ¬† ¬† The History of ECRI's Latest Recession Call ECRI's weekly leading index has become a major focus and source of controversy ever since September 30th of last year, when ECRI publicly announced that the U.S. is tipping into a recession, a call the Institute had announced to its private clients on September 21st. Here is an excerpt from the announcement: Year-over-Year Growth in the WLI Triggered by another ECRI commentary, Why Our Recession Call Stands, I now include a snapshot of the year-over-year growth of the WLI rather than ECRI's previously favored method of calculating the WLIg series from the underlying WLI (see the endnote below). Specifically the chart immediately below is the year-over-year change in the 4-week moving average of the WLI. The red dots highlight the YoY value for the month when recessions began. ¬† ¬† As the chart above makes clear, the WLI YoY, now at 5.3%, has slipped from the 5.7%-5.8% level of the previous four weeks. This is higher than at the onset of all seven recessions in the chart timeframe. The closest to the current level was the second half of the early 1980s double dip, which was to some extent an engineered recession to break the back of inflation, is a conspicuous outlier in this series, starting with a WLI YoY at 4.1%. Additional Sources for Recession Forecasts Dwaine van Vuuren, CEO of RecessionAlert.com, and his collaborators, including Georg Vrba and Franz Lischka, have developed a powerful recession forecasting methodology that shows promise of making forecasts with fewer false positives, which I take to include excessively long lead times, such as ECRI's September 2011 recession call. Here is today's update of Georg Vrba's analysis, which is explained in more detail in this article. ¬† ¬† Earlier Video Chronology of ECRI's Recession Call ¬† Note: How to Calculate the Growth series from the Weekly Leading Index ECRI's weekly Excel spreadsheet includes the WLI and the Growth series, but the latter is a series of values without the underlying calculations. After a collaborative effort by Franz Lischka, Georg Vrba, Dwaine van Vuuren and Kishor Bhatia to model the calculation, Georg discovered the actual formula in a 1999 article published by Anirvan Banerji, the Chief Research Officer at ECRI: The three Ps: simple tools for monitoring economic cycles - pronounced, pervasive and persistent economic indicators. Here is the formula:
