Wildfires continue to devastate California and its residents. AOL's John Passantino just tweeted this stunning image of a man standing on a rooftop as the fire approaches. Getty Images / David McNewA man on a rooftop looks at approaching flames as the Springs fire continues to grow on May 3, 2013 near Camarillo, California. The wildfire has spread to more than 18,000 acres on day two and is 20 percent contained.
It has long been our underlying thesis that the huge amount of household debt accumulated during the housing boom would inhibit consumer spending and economic growth for some time to come, and this is what has been happening over the last few years.¬† The errors recently found in the famous Rogoff-Reinhart (RR) book do not change this view. Simply put, household debt averaged 77% of disposable personal income (DPI) over the 61-year period since 1952.¬† It crossed over the average line in 1985 and took a sharp upward turn in 2000, eventually peaking at 130% of DPI in 2007.¬† Since that time, consumers have reduced their debt to a level that is now 105% of DPI, still significantly higher than in the past.¬† The result has been a significant slowdown and tepid recovery in consumer spending growth, a process that is far from finished. The role of household savings is a key element in analyzing both debt and spending.¬† For 41 years between 1951 and 1992 household savings rates as a percent of disposable income were consistently between 7% and 11%.¬† However, as income growth started to slow down, consumers increasingly maintained their old spending habits by going into more debt and reducing their savings rate.¬† This reached an extreme during the prior decade, when the savings rate stayed below 2% from 2005 through 2007, while debt soared.¬† We all know how that ended. No matter what you hear from the politicians, the media and ‚Äúthe street‚Äù, keep in mind that the combination of the household debt, low savings rates and tepid increases in income has been the reason for the deep recession and subsequent below average growth, and will continue to be the reason why economic growth will likely be slow for some time to come. In the last two years, between the 1st quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2013, real consumer spending has increased by a meager 3.8%----and this was accomplished on an increase of only 1.1% in real disposable income as households reduced their saving rate from 5.1% to 2.6%.¬† It therefore should not have been a surprise that spending looked so weak in March, and it should be no surprise when spending remains subdued in the period ahead.¬† With consumer spending accounting for about 70% of GDP, it is easy to see why this puts a damper on the rest of the economy, particularly in a time of fiscal drag.¬† The Fed is undoubtedly well aware of the outlook as they continue their attempt to try and offset, at least in part, the major headwinds elsewhere in the economy. None of the above analysis depends on the Rogoff-Reinhart (RR) research, some of which was recently found to be erroneous. First, RR emphasizes mostly government rather than consumer debt.¬† Second, they maintain that when the government debt-to-GDP ratio crosses 90%, economic growth slows down.¬† The idea that there was some specific threshold of government debt-to-GDP¬†that led to slower growth was¬†probably not valid in the first place.¬† In any event, we think that¬†for the near-to-intermediate term, it is the still-high level of household debt that is the key drag on the economy.
Berkshire Hathaway's Q1 earnings are out. The company run by Warren Buffett earned $3.78 billion or $2,302 per share, up from $2.66 billion or $1,615 per share a year ago. One detail from the Berkshire's filings we're always interested in is the value of his long-term derivative bets on the global stock markets.¬† In case you forgot, Berkshire had sold put options on the S&amp;P 500, FTSE 100, Euro Stoxx 50, and the Nikkei 225. Berkshire collected premiums when it sold these options.¬† Because they are put options, Berkshire is obligated to pay the option buyer should the indices fall below the exercise price.¬† It's important to note that these are European style options, which means they can only be exercised at maturity.¬† As a general rule, the value of these positions increase when stocks go up and vice versa. This bet was controversial because in his 2002 letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders, Buffett dubbed derivative securities as "financial weapons of mass destruction." In Q1, the value of these options climbed by $1.246 billion.¬† Of course, these are just paper losses as Buffett expects to hold them until they expire. From Berkshire Hathaway's 10-Q (click to zoom): Berkshire Hathaway, SEC Some details from the 10-Q filing: The equity index put option contracts are European style options written on four major equity indexes. Future payments, if any, under these contracts will be required if the underlying index value is below the strike price at the contract expiration dates. We received the premiums on these contracts in full at the contract inception dates and therefore have no counterparty credit risk. We have written no new contracts since February 2008. The aggregate intrinsic value (which is the undiscounted liability assuming the contracts are settled based on the index values and foreign currency exchange rates as of the balance sheet date) of our equity index put option contracts was approximately $3.0 billion at March 31, 2013 and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2012. However, these contracts may not be unilaterally terminated or fully settled before the expiration dates which occur between June 2018 and January 2026. Therefore, the ultimate amount of cash basis gains or losses on these contracts will not be determined for many years. The remaining weighted average life of all contracts was approximately 7.75 years at March 31, 2013.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.¬† Is The Fed Printing Story Just A Version Of The Tech Bubble Story? (Risk Reversal) We've hit 1,600 on the S&amp;P 500. Now what? Risk Reversal's Enis Taner says the rally is no different than what we've told ourselves in advance of other bubbles popping. "When I first read Random Walk on Wall Street 15 years ago, I developed an immediate bias in favor of fundamental analysis vs. technical analysis. ¬†...But all the analysts‚Äô research seemed to become irrelevant when animal spirits either became too hot or too cold. ¬†Technology valuations soared, and I got caught up in the new paradigm, when everyone was shouting from the treetops that old valuation methods didn‚Äôt matter. ¬†Then they crashed, and everyone was shouting from the treetops that the internet was only a fad, and the durable and the physical, houses and cars, were what mattered. ¬†Then they crashed, and everyone was shouting from the treetops that the U.S. consumer was too stretched, and the emerging markets, the BRICs, with their voracious appetites for commodities and trade, were the new leaders of a new world. ¬†Then they crashed, and everyone was shouting from the treetops that central banks were the saviors, and their money printing, and only their money printing, mattered in a new, changed world‚Ä¶" Interest Rates And Copper Tell Us There Is No Economic Activity (Jeff Gundlach) At the 10th annual Strategic Investment Conference today, Jeff Gundlach says the Fed has put the U.S. squarely in a liquidity trap where rates cannot rise lest they kill growth ‚Äî but there's actually very little growth occurring anyway. He also says falling copper prices add further evidence. "Understand that there is NO WORLD in which rates will rise with copper prices falling. Interest rates are currently telling the same story as copper ‚Äì there is very little economic activity occurring." We Will Never Not Have Crises (Morgan Stanley) Two interesting charts from Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels about the nature of business cycles.¬†He says economies inevitably follow a pattern of complacency, crisis, response and improvement, which looks something like this: Morgan Stanley And here's how this "CRIC" cycle has applied in the Eurocrisis: Morgan Stanley  Banks Are Turning To Preferred Shares To Shore Up Capital (WSJ) Still looking to shore up capital that got destroyed after Fall 2008, large banks have begun issuing preferred shares, WSJ's Katy Burne reports. Here's why: "They bolster balance sheets hit in the 2008 crisis by adding permanent capital without harming existing shareholders, and they are cheaper than some other fundraising methods because ultralow interest rates are pushing investors toward higher-yielding securities." S&amp;P 1,600 And John 3:16¬†(Reformed Broker) According to a Marketwatch report, it took 13 years for the S&amp;P 500 to get from 1,500 to 1,600. That is the fourth-longest lag between 100-point moves in S&amp;P history. Here is Josh Brown's take on this: "When I look back and I only see one set of footprints on the chart, I ask the S&amp;P 'How come your footprints aren't there? I thought you would be walking beside me when things got rough?'¬†To which the market replied 'Where you see only one set of footprints, that's where I was carrying you.' "
AP ImagesBerkshire Hathaway's Q1 financial results are out. The holding company run by Warren Buffett reported operating earnings of $2,302 per share, up from $1,615 a year ago. According to a survey conducted by Bloomberg, analysts were looking for $1,995.50. That makes this an earnings surprise of about $306.50 per share. It's worth mentioning that Berkshire A shares closed at $162,904 today. You can read the very brief press release here.
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniSouthern California's women's jeans industry is about to get shredded by European import duties. According to California Apparel News' Deborah Belgum, all women's denim manufactured in the U.S. is subject to a new 38% tariff as of May 1 ó a 26-point increase from current levels. That subsector happens to be concentrated in and around Los Angeles. Many companies are already making plans to shift production to Mexico, Belgum writes: Deborah Greaves, the in-house attorney for†True Religion, said she had just found out about it and was shocked. ìObviously, it is not good news. It is not something you ever want to hear. We havenít had an opportunity to assess how it is going to impact our business and what we can do to mitigate it.î Executives at†Hudson†jeans were planning to move some of the company's production to Mexico to get around the new duty. But that will take a few months to maneuver. "We can't turn on a dime," said Daniel Barcenas, senior vice president of operations at Hudson. "We have been exporting quite a bit to Europe." The new levies are a response to America's continued collection of anti-dumping fees. Those were supposed to have ended with the repeal of what was known as the Byrd Amendment in 2006, but U.S. Customs continues to distribute money raised from the fees. Last year,†$120 million was paid out to U.S. firms. U.S. sweet corn, eyewear frames and mountings, and crane truck will also be subject to a new 15% levy. Read the full story on California Apparel News &gt;
Bar BrunoCinco de Mayo is this Sunday, which gives us all an excuse to down some tequila shots and margaritas before it's even 2 PM. So in anticipation of the May 5th celebration, we took an office poll and made a list of 12 of our favorite margaritas around NYC. Some of these are fruity, some are crazy strong, and still others are classically delicious with fresh lime juice and the very best Tequila. Did we miss a great one? Sound off in the comments below.¬†
Like many working on Wall Street, Sidney Goodfriend has an impressive resume. After graduating from Johns Hopkins and getting an MBA from Columbia, he started trading stocks and began a long and lucrative career starting at Merrill Lynch and ending at Credit Suisse. What happened after his 24-year investment banking tenure is perhaps even more impressive. In 2008, he dipped into¬†his own money to start an organization dedicated to helping military members ease their transition from the service: American Corporate Partners (ACP). "Since 9/11, I found myself very appreciative of the freedoms and opportunities my family and I enjoyed," Goodfriend told Business Insider. "I wanted to do something different and I wanted to see if there was a way that I could make a contribution." ACP partnered with six companies to create a unique mentoring program ‚Äî pairing corporate executives with military members trying to figure out their next move. His contribution paid off. Goodfried took ACP from just a handful of partner companies at founding to now more than 40, including two universities and two hospitals.¬†"They all provide mentors, and all the corporations provide funding," Goodfriend said. Unlike traditional jobs programs, ACP offers guidance from experienced professionals to job seekers in their chosen field. These mentors volunteer to be paired with a veteran¬†prot√©g√© for one year ‚Äî speaking with or meeting regularly to find out goals, and outline steps the veteran needs to take to get there. "Most people want to help, but they don't know how, outside of writing a check," Goodfriend said.¬† Some of the several thousand veterans that have gone through the program have seen impressive volunteer mentors, including NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Home Depot CEO Frank Blake, Barclays CEO Bob Diamond, and media mogul Rupert Murdoch.¬† "Many of our mentors tell us they get just as much out of the program that the veterans do," he said. But what are the veterans getting out of the program? From the lengthy "success stories" page on the ACP website, it looks like quite a bit. "I believe the mentorship program and the professional workshops have been directly responsible for me having seven interviews in the last few weeks," writes William, a U.S. Army veteran, "and accepting a position with a corporation that has great opportunities in both management and train transportation services." For Goodfriend, who receives no compensation from ACP, he sees the organization as serving two goals ‚Äî helping as many veterans as possible who are coming home to a civilian career, and encouraging others to stand up and help those who served. ¬† "The people receiving, the folks who served ‚Äî they don't view it as a charity," Goodfriend said. "They see this only as seeking advice and guidance from a person they respect." Disclosure: The author went through the ACP mentoring program in 2011.
JCPenney spent $170 million hiring failed CEO Ron Johnson and his top three executives.† About 18 months later, all those executives are gone, reports Matt Townsend at Bloomberg News.† Johnson left JCPenney last month after shares sunk 50% in his tenure. The charismatic former Apple executive unsuccessfully tried to make JCPenney more modern by eliminating its popular promotions program, which only drove away customers.† Other executives who left include marketing chief Michael Francis, Chief Operating Officer Michael Kramer, and Chief Talent Officer Dan Walker.† The $170 million used to recruit the high-level executives includes cash payments (such as a sign-on bonus) and stock options and doesn't even include salary, according to Townsend.† ìThis is a story of how just tossing money at management doesnít guarantee success,î consultant Steven Hall told Bloomberg.† Former CEO Mike Ullman took Johnson's place as head of JCPenney.† The money JCPenney spent recruiting four short-lived executives is small potatoes compared to the billions of dollars it's burning through to finish out a costly part of Ron Johnson's strategy.† Johnson started remodeling 700 stores to include shop-in-shops, sections that highlight certain designers.† Many of the stores were still under construction at the time of Johnson's ouster, forcing JCPenney to finish what he started.† Today, the company is in grave financial danger: if it continues burning through cash at the current speed, it would be out of money by mid-summer.†
Wikimedia CommonsToday was great. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,973, +142.3 pts, +0.9%S&amp;P 500: 1,614, +16.8 pts, +1.0%NASDAQ: 3,378, +38.0 pts, +1.1% And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Flickr/Microsoft SwedenMicrosoft Excel just might be the greatest piece of software ever developed. Massive swathes of the economy rely on the program, and becoming skilled at Excel has become a license to print money in business.¬† So while there are a lot of basic tricks that you have to know, there are also a few tricks that will set you head and shoulders above the competition.¬† If you want to dazzle your bosses and beat your rivals, know these eleven excel tricks.¬†
Today's jobs report was a big sigh of relief. Unemployment fell. Retail jobs were added in solid numbers, and there were big upward revisions to March and February numbers. America seems to be avoiding recession, even with the hit from the sequester. So how are things chugging along? Part of it may be expansive monetary policy, but there's another factor that's starting to turn bullish for the consumer: Gas prices. Here's a look at the year-over-year change in the cost of the average gallon of gasoline. The drop of close to 10% is the biggest drop since 2010. FRED Not only are gas prices becoming less of a burden, but average hourly wage growth has improved. Year-over-year growth in average hourly wages (while a little weak lately) has been stronger than it's been in awhile. FRED The upshot is that every hour Americans are working these days is buying them more and more gas, relieving a pretty significant economic burden. Here's a look at how many gallons of gasoline the average worker can buy with an hour's work. It's still a little bumpy, but the trend is higher. FRED And you can really see it happening on this chart, which shows the year-over-year change in how much gasoline the average worker can buy in an hour. As you can see, the average worker can now buy 15% more gasoline with an hour's wages than they could buy at this time last year. FRED Given how significant gas prices are as a "drag" on the economy, this is a big tailwind, that could theoretically go a long way.
Instagram/you010In the past decade, big tobacco has finally developed and marketed a cigarette* that does not cause cancer**. It's the closest we've come to a cancer-free cigarette, which tobacco companies have been fantasizing about since the 1950s. But there are a few catches. †*First, they are arguably not even cigarettes, without the tobacco content or taste that the 1.1 billion global smokers enjoy.†That's the primary reason why e-cigarettes still represent only a tiny share of the market. **Second, while e-cigarettes probably won't give you cancer, they may still contribute to heart disease, heart attack, stroke, and other ailments. Ultimately we know very little about the health effects ó and given the history of cigarettes, that should worry you. Cancer-free? People smoke e-cigarettes to get a nicotine high, similar to the kind one gets with traditional cigarettes. While the nicotine in e-cigarettes comes from the tobacco plant, it is separated from tar and other plant material that cause cancer when smoked. Because there hasn't been any research into the long-term effects of inhaling nicotine vapor from an e-cigarette, we can't say for sure that they don't cause cancer. What we can say is that the e-cigarettes are most likely healthier than tobacco cigarettes because they lack the 4,000 plus chemicals from the tobacco leaves. E-cigarettes hold nicotine in liquid form, which gets heated into a vapor and released when a user sucks on the end. EonSmokes That nicotine high The stimulating effects of nicotine are immediate. It makes its way through the mucus membranes of your lungs and into your bloodstream, then into your brain.†When it hits your brain, nicotine binds to brain cells that turn on the bodyís "wake-up call" pathways. It also releases dopamine, our "feel good" brain chemical, and glutamate, which is involved in learning and memory, reinforcing this good feeling and making your memory of it stronger. In about an hour, half of the nicotine from that smoke is already broken down and expelled from your body, leaving you craving more. Regular nicotine users develop a tolerance to the drug, making them use more and more, for example, moving from a cigarette a day to a few packs per week. The same thing can happen with inhaled nicotine. It can still kill you E-cigarettes may not cause cancer, but that doesn't make them safe. Nicotine on its own is an extremely toxic poison similar to pesticides. When you take too much, you can get nicotine poisoning, which causes vomiting and nausea, and headaches. † Even in smaller doses it can be dangerous.†When you take in nicotine, your body releases adrenaline ó giving you a sudden rush of energy and increasing your heartbeat, blood pressure, and breathing. It also tells your body to pump your blood with sugars. Because of these effects, nicotine use is linked to heart disease, heart attack, and stroke. A small study,†presented at the European Respiratory Societyís annual meeting†in February 2012 showed that e-cigarette smoking could have negative effects on people with coronary artery disease who have plaques in their arteries, because it lowers blood oxygen levels after 10 minutes of e-cigarette use. The researchers, from the University of Athens in Greece, suggested that people with these health issues should use other nicotine products to quit smoking. Another small†2012 study published in the journal Chest†also showed changes in lung functioning after use of e-cigarettes. When asked about the Greek study, Klaus Lessnau, a lung doctor at Lennox Hill Hospital in New York City,†told Robert Glatter of Forbes†that "electronic cigarettes cannot be recommended to improve lung health, but there is certainly some degree of harm reduction compared to regular cigarette use," because of the presence of fewer toxic and tar-based substances. More research needed A 2010 study†published in the journal Tobacco Control†suggested the five major e-cigarette brands had design flaws, lack of adequate labeling, and potential quality control issues. The study was led by University of California, Riverside researcher Prue Talbot,†who said at the time, "there are virtually no scientific studies on e-cigarettes and their safety. Our study ñ one of the first studies to evaluate e-cigarettes ñ shows that this product has many flaws, which could cause serious public health problems in the future if the flaws go uncorrected." As she noted, the health effects of nicotine, which is addictive, havenít been adequately studied when separated from tobacco smoke. We know that when a regular cigarette is inhaled, the chemicals in it can cause cancer and lung problems.†We donít know how the body reacts to pure nicotine without these other chemicals†ó it could have its own set of negative health consequences. Notably, former Surgeon General Richard Carmona ó who highlighted the dangers of second-hand smoke during his tenure under George W. Bush ó just joined the†board of top selling e-cigarette company NJoy, Inc. In March, Carmona said that he would be spearheading research into the health effects of inhaled nicotine and e-cigarettes. Regulation E-cigarette company NJoy sued the Food and Drug Administration in 2010 to prevent it from regulating the vaporizers as smoking cessation devices. The FDA is trying†to regulate them as tobacco products†via a proposal currently in the public review period. Beyond that, however, the FDA has limited options. There is also no minimum age requirement and they are easily attainable online. This means young children purchase them with much less difficulty than buying a pack of smokes. They also come in flavors that kids could like such as chocolate, strawberry, and caramel. Michael Tolmach, executive officer of Eonsmoke, LLC, told Business Insider in an email that, "Eonsmoke as a brand puts Surgeon General warnings on all products and support legislation that bans the sale of electronic cigarette to minors across all 50 American states and abroad. We only sell to licensed tobacco retailers and stress very harshly of the requirements to validate age when selling e-cigarettes." Another confusing factor†is that with some e-cigarettes, you are also inhaling a flavoring or other additives ó not all of which are disclosed on the packaging. For instance, Eonsmoke and LOGIC e-cigarettes deliver their nicotine using a polyethylene†glycol or propolene glycol solution, along with other additives like glycerine and flavorings. Propylene glycol is considered to be safe by the FDA and is used in food, health, and cosmetic products, a LOGIC representative told Business Insider in an email. With the great preponderance of different styles and brands of e-cigarettes out on the market, it is also difficult to study, since any one brand may have different ingredients or nicotine levels. These levels are sometimes higher than those in a tobacco cigarette. Will they help you quit? A recent study published in the journal Addiction in May 2012, showed that "electronic cigarettes can deliver clinically significant amounts of nicotine and reduce cigarette abstinence symptoms and appear to have lower potential for abuse relative to traditional tobacco cigarettes, at least under certain laboratory conditions." The researchers brought 20 current cigarette smokers into the lab and had them test out e-cigarettes under laboratory conditions. They were then offered the choice of e-cigarette puffs, regular cigarette puffs, or money. They tested the Vapor King from Vapor4Life in ìWOW Cowboyî or ìWOW Cowboy Menthol.î The problem? It took new users 40 puffs of the e-cigarettes to get a good, consistent nicotine delivery ó and the effects werenít as fast or strong as a regular cigarette. They suggest this is because the vaporized nicotine entered the blood stream through the cheek instead of entering through the lungs as tobacco cigarette smoke does. Experienced electronic cigarette users may be better at using them, however, and could get higher and faster nicotine levels with e-cigarettes, maybe on par with those from a tobacco cigarette, the study said. Another report by the same researchers, published in February of 2012 in the journal Nicotine &amp; Tobacco Research indicates that this could be true: Experienced e-cigarette smokers had higher nicotine levels and heart rates after they started inhaling nicotine, so they were basically better at smoking the e-cigarette and reliably got the nicotine high they were looking for, about equivalent to smoking tobacco cigarettes. If the e-cigarettes are able to substitute for the tobacco cigarettes, itís possible that one could use them to quit: first weaning yourself off of the tobacco, then off the nicotine inhaler, since itís less addictive than the tobacco. "We acknowledge that nicotine is an incredibly addictive drug and only advocate using Eonsmoke electronic cigarettes responsibly and by adult smokers only," Tolmach said. "We do not make any†therapeutic or medical claims and consider the electronic cigarette as an unhealthy addiction." Taking over? Investment bank Citi named e-cigarettes as one of 10 technologies that will change the way the world does business. A potentially cancer-free cigarette ó despite all other concerns ó is that big of a deal. Citi projects $3.2 billion in global sales by 2015, up from $416 million in 2010. While that's a huge market, however, it remains only a fraction of the global tobacco market, estimated at $700 billion in 2011.†Whether e-cigarettes take a larger share will depend on many factors, including improved quality and unresolved questions about health.
Here are two interesting charts presented by economist Joachim Fels at Morgan Stanley's Macro Ideas &amp; Insights Forum in London. They show the "CRIC" cycle and how it has rolled in Europe. Basically, complacency begets a crisis, which begets a response, which begets improvement, which begets complacency.¬† And it all starts over again. Morgan Stanley As it relates to Europe: Morgan Stanley
Dealbook screengrabThe New York Times¬†is still¬†in exclusive possession of a confidential government document¬†recommending that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission sue several individuals at JPMorgan Chase¬†over alleged "manipulative schemes" in connection with energy trading in California and Michigan. I can confirm that the document exists and recommends official actions against the JPMorgan executives. But the document itself remains elusive. As does the question of who gave it to the¬†Times. JPMorgan sources initially said the company believed the document was leaked by FERC. Later, it said that it was unclear who leaked the document, but that it was clear whoever leaked it was trying to make the bank "look bad by telling one half of the story." "It is full of salacious and inaccurate BS," one person familiar with the matter said.¬† A government source familiar with the matter denies the leak came from FERC. This source believes the leak came from JPMorgan itself, in an attempt to prepare the market in advance of the filing of an actual lawsuit. The story in the¬†Times, however, does not seem to imply much cooperation on the part of JPMorgan. It's nearly all based on government accusations. If it were a JPMorgan plant, you'd expect the bank to at least have tried to spin the allegations a bit. FERC is not known as a serial leaker, unlike some other regulatory agencies with jurisdiction over financial institutions.¬† One possibility is that the leak came from outside either JPMorgan or FERC‚Äîperhaps from another regulator with whom FERC shared its memo. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's John Carney.¬†Follow him on Twitter¬†@Carney.
On Wednesday "The Daily Show" aired a segment in which Jon Stewart referred to Donald Trump as F**kface von Clownstick. He said that it was Trump's birth name. And while we're pretty sure Trump isn't one of the "Daily Show's" regular viewers, he did manage to hear about the segment and was, naturally, upset. So as Donald Trump is known to do, he took his grievance to Twitter. Check out the stream below: TwitterTwitterTwitterTwitter At least Trump got his point across. In fact, "The Daily Show" noticed, and tweeted some responses that can only be described as ... satisfied. Twitter Twitter † The actual segment in question was about Senator Ted Cruz, and the fact that he can't really run for President because he was born in Canada. Stewart mused that investigating that was clearly a matter for Trump. You can watch it here below: The Daily Show with Jon StewartGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,Indecision Political Humor,The Daily Show on Facebook
Just look at the top list. Mostly Japan-related. finansakrobat.com
Warren Buffett's right-hand man at Berkshire Hathaway, Charlie Munger, told CNBC this morning why he doesn't think you can trust bankers to govern themselves. "I don't think you can trust bankers to control themselves. They're like heroin addicts," he said.† The famed 89-year-old investor used the recent banking crisis in Cyprus as an example. †He said it was very similar to what happened during Iceland's financial meltdown a few years ago.† Watch him explain in this video clip from his interview with CNBC's Becky Quick:† 
@propertiesTom Heagy, the former CFO of LaSalle Bank, and his wife Linda (who also worked there), are selling their historic Chicago mansion for $4.9 million, the WSJ reports. The 10 bedroom, 8 bathroom home once belonged to Sears and Roebuck VP and philanthropist Max Adler. He helped to build the first planetarium in the Western Hemisphere, Adler Planetarium. Another plus about this house is that it's in President Obama's old neighborhood. Combine all that with the fact that the Heagys invested $3 million into renovating the 11,546 square foot house and you've basically got yourself a deal with the $5 million price tag. Jan Smith of @properties has the listing.
NEWPORT BEACH ñ After years of tweaks, Japan has now initiated a major shift in its policy paradigm, with reactions ranging from great optimism that the country may finally be lifted out of a quarter-century of economic stagnation, to concerns that the authoritiesí dramatic change of course may in fact end up making things worse. But, while debate naturally focuses on Japanís economic, financial, and political maneuvers, the tipping point could well lie abroad. Prime Minister Shinzo Abeís new government has embraced a revolutionary (rather than evolutionary) economic-policy approach that engages several initiatives, some of which were once deemed implausible, unthinkable, or even undesirable. From the doubling of the money supply to additional fiscal stimulus and wide-ranging structural reforms, the new policy paradigm is nothing less than one of the boldest economic-policy experiments in Japanís post-war history. To demonstrate their seriousness, Japanese officials moved quickly to commit to measurable metrics. On the policy input side, they have specified and begun to implement purchases of securities totaling $75 billion per month (three times as much, in relative terms, as the US Federal Reserve currently purchases under its unconventional monetary-policy regime). On the output side, and after many years of persistent deflation (prices fell 0.5% last month), Japan is now targeting a 2% inflation rate within two years, thus underscoring its commitment to avoid a pre-mature withdrawal of monetary support for growth. Already, financial markets have responded with alacrity. The Japanese equity market is up an impressive 55% since hints of the paradigm shift started hitting investorsí radar screens. At the same time, the Japanese yen has depreciated sharply, including by more than 20% against the struggling euro. This response is part of the transmission mechanism for the Japanese governmentís policies. The surge in the stock market benefits domestic investors, making them likelier to spend more (what economists call the ìwealth effectî). This, in turn, should revive corporate ìanimal spirits,î leading to higher investment in new plants and equipment, together with higher wages and salaries. These are, of course, the same mechanisms that the Fed has targeted for almost three years in its own efforts to stimulate higher growth in the US. The macroeconomic outcomes have consistently fallen short of expectations, and there is reason to believe that it will be even more difficult in Japan for monetary policy alone to gain sufficient traction. Japanís aging population mutes the potential impact of both the wealth effect and animal spirits. Resource flexibility is lower than in the US. Interest rates are already low. The experience of deflation is well entrenched. And, given Japanís high level of public indebtedness, the risks of collateral damage and unintended consequences are potentially higher. With gross overall government debt already at 238% of GDP, some worry that Japan would face the threat of economic and financial dislocation were a failed policy experiment to lead its private sector ñ which traditionally has displayed an enormous home bias ñ to disinvest from Japan. This does not mean that Japanís policy revolution will necessarily disappoint. But, critically, it does mean that even if you believe that the BOJís actions are necessary for Japan to emerge from its economic malaise, they certainly are not sufficient. Japanís experiment requires meeting two additional conditions if it is to avoid going the way of previous failed policy initiatives: meaningful structural reforms that essentially change how segments of the economy respond and operate; and other countriesí continued acquiescence in the currency depreciation needed to boost the impact of slower-moving domestic dynamics through meaningful gains in global market share. Meeting the first condition is in the hands of Japanese citizens and their elected representatives. The required reforms, though achievable, will test the governmentís resolve and implementation capabilities, as well as the populationís willingness to face immediate disruptions in exchange for the promise of longer-term gains. The second requirement is very different. It can be achieved only if other countries are willing to sacrifice output, either because they have no choice, or because they believe that, over the medium-term, a stronger Japanese economy will benefit them as the longer-term income effects offset the impact of immediate market disruptions. But will the rest of the world accommodate Japanís bold policy experiment, or will it take protective steps and thus impede the operation of a crucial policy transmission mechanism? While initial indications are encouraging, the jury is still out. Many affected countries ñ including those hit by the trade effects (such as China, South Korea, Taiwan, and eurozone members) and those susceptible to the capital-flow channel (such as Brazil, Indonesia, and Mexico) ñ have not yet had enough time to react. Japanís policy change was big and abrupt, and several of the countries on the receiving end have been focused on complex domestic challenges. A few countries ñ particularly Brazil, China, and South Korea ñ have noticed. But their reactions have been generally muted by Japanís success in getting a US-led initiative at the G-20 to classify its policy response as constituting the use of ìdomestic toolsî to pursue ìdomestic objectives.î It is just a matter of time until the rest of the world catches up with the reality of how Japanís experiment affects them. The hope is that, bolstered by evidence of Japanís serious pursuit of structural reforms, they will accommodate the experiment in two ways: by not retaliating, and by undertaking their own domestic reforms that compensate for the output lost to Japan. In other words, a growing pie for all better accommodates all. The fear is that neither Japanís subsequent actions nor the affected countriesí domestic realities will justify the risk of lost market share, especially at a time when the global economy as a whole ñ and global policy coordination ñ is struggling. Here the risk involves currency wars and other beggar-thy-neighbor disruptions. There is currently insufficient data to predict either outcome confidently. As we await additional evidence, let us appreciate how rarely we witness, in real time, such a momentous policy shift.
Jeff Vinik, the owner of the Tampa Bay Lightning NHL team, is shuttering his hedge fund. Hedge fund manager Jeffrey Vinik shutting down firm; Vinik to return billions in outside investors' money after poor performance (via DJ) He also told investors that he will be focusing on philanthropy and his hockey team, the report said. The Tampa Bay Lightning hasn't been doing so hot. ¬†The hockey team finished 14th in the Eastern conference and failed to make post season for a second year in a row, Yahoo! Sports reports.¬† Vinik is also well-known on the Street because he¬†used to manage the Fidelity Magellan Fund, the world's biggest mutual fund, during the early to mid 1990s. ¬†
Wikimedia CommonsEveryone attending the Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Meeting gets a welcome package when they reach Omaha, and part of that package is a list of local places to eat, drink etc. Naturally, Buffett's favorite steakhouse, Gorat's, is on the list, and every year he takes the whole place over for one day of the shareholder extravaganza. This year shareholders are invited to make reservations and party down at Gorat's on Sunday from 1-9 pm. The restaurant has been around since 1944, and it's definitely got a classic steakhouse feel. When Omaha isn't being invaded by Berkshire shareholders, Buffett likes to take college students to have lunch or dinner there 3-4 times a month. Of course, he also takes powerful people there as well. It's no secret that if you want Buffett's advice you go see him in Omaha, and if you see him in Omaha you may very well have dinner with him at Gorat's. GE's Jeff Immelt has been there, as has former Disney CEO Michael Eisner, JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon, Martha Stewart, and of course Bill Gates. YouTubeOn the wall at Gorat'sTo prepare for this weekend's onslaught of thousands of shareholders, Gorat's staff will cut thousands of pounds of steak. From ABC Omaha: "Mr. Buffett's T-bone is the favorite steak, so we've been doing an awful lot of T-bones," said Branecki. "It's fun. It's crazy. We get a lot of people." Branecki said the restaurant will serve nearly 2,000 people by Sunday night. "I would say it's about a month's worth of business in four days," he said. Call it the Buffett bump. Reviewers on Yelp are mixed about the place in general, but they do agree the onion rings and hash browns alone are worth a mention. So check out Gorat's.
The old stock market rule "sell in May and go away" is on everyone's minds once again. For some reason, this strategy has a long and successful track record. Furthermore, it would've worked brilliantly in the last three years. JP Morgan's Tom Lee discusses the current sentiment in his new note to clients: "The consensus of ìsell in Mayî is built on multiple arguments but the most prominent seem to be: (i) treasury yields and commodities have plunged; (ii) downside reads in economic data; and (iii) this has held up in 2010, 2011 and 2012, so why should 2013 be any different." However, Lee's not convinced this will hold up this time around for three reasons.† He singles out hedge fund positioning as being the "most notable." JP Morgan's hedge fund indicator is a contrarian indicator.† In other words, when hedge funds are bearish, you should be bullish.† From his note: We want to take the other side of this trade for multiple reasons, but the three most notable: (i) client positioning is diametrically opposite of that in the last 3 yearsóHF beta, for instance, rather than registering the highs of the year in April (as was the case in 2010, 2011 and 2012) is at the lowest levels since 8/12 (see Figure 6); (ii) we believe the early downturn in gasoline (and other commodities) will act as stimulus in coming weeks by as much as 50bp lift to GDP (q/q)óin past 3 years, gasoline surged in 2Q and thus was a headwind; (iii) the message from continued improvement in jobless claims (new cycle lows this week at 324k) and the rally in HY market in the face of mixed economic data argues the seasonal weakness in the economy is not likely to play out in 2Q as in past years. Check out this chart from Lee's note: JP Morgan
AP ImagesValue investor Whitney Tilson told us the No. 1 reason he makes the annual pilgrimage to Omaha, Nebraska for the Berkshire Hathaway annual shareholder meeting is to learn. We asked Tilson, who runs Kase Capital, the most brilliant thing he has learned from the legendary Warren Buffett. "I don't know, how many hours do you have?" he responded.† Here's what Tilson has learned both professionally and personally from the Oracle of Omaha:† "I remember going to the meeting during the internet bubble and he made it abundantly clear that this was a ridiculous bubble and that Cisco for example could not possibly be worth $500 billion, which is what it's market cap was at the time. He and Charlie [Munger] were shouting from the rooftops about the dangers of leverage building up in the financial system during the next great bubble that was forming. †Then, in the aftermath, during the bust, he in early '09, which turns out to have been an absolutely fantastic time in May of '09 to have been investing, he was there as sort of a voice of wisdom and calm saying, 'You know, it's a turbulent world out there, but I'm finding a lot of good stuff to buy.' So the way he talks about why he bought Burlington Northern, you know why the insurance business is attractive, you just learn so much about business and different industries, about what's going on economically. So that's all the professional stuff." "On the personal stuff, just the way he and Charlie talk about how they live their lives. And, the way they run Berkshire Hathaway. †The way they've conducted themselves. †I think they are admirable. †Even if I didn't learn a thing from them on the investing front, I think I would go to learn from them about how to live your life in a good way. I remember them talking about 'How do you define success? †How do you know when you're successful?' and Warren's comment was 'If the people who should love you, do love you.' That's always sort of stuck with me. And then Charlie takes the inverse of that and says, 'You don't want to be the guy who everybody shows up at his funeral just to make sure he's dead.'"† Great stuff.
(Click here for the previous presentation from Niall Ferguson) Why own bonds? I have been presented with the question twice in my career. The first time was in the 90ís when bonds and stocks were highly correlated. If stocks rose, bond prices fell, and vice versa. Therefore, investment managers decided that they should only own stocks as there was no advantage in being diversified. Unfortunately, we all know how well this turned out. Today, investment managers are making the same decision but for a different reason. With the Fedís artificial suppression of interest rates to historic lows; the return from owning bonds has become painful particularly for underfunded pension funds. That pain, combined with the inflation of asset prices via continuing QE programs, has forced managers into overweighting stocks. The other reason that managers are jumping into stocks is due to the belief that interest rates are going to start rising on ìTuesday.î ìLet me be clear. This is absolutely wrong. Yields are NOT going to rise any time soon.î There is one thing about being an asset manager. Timing is everything. The synonym for ìearlyî in the investment business ñ is ìwrong.î If you had bought the Nikkei two years ago you would now be right ñ after losing about 20%. Now is the right time. Is there a bond bubble? Flows into bond funds have been robust compared to equities. This has particularly been the case since 2009 as investors have scrambled for yield. Therefore, there must be a bubble ñ right? The answer is no. The great rotation is NOT happening.†† First of all, for every buyer there is a seller. Therefore, in order for someone to sell their bonds and buy stocks means that someone has to be selling stocks. It is a zero sum game. ìThere is no secret treasure trove of equities waiting to be bought.î Furthermore, as opposed to most mainstream commentators, equities are not under allocated. The U.S. currently has more than 40% of household assets in stocks which is the highest of all other major countries. There is also no stash of cash waiting on the sidelines waiting to rush into the markets and, lastly, bonds are only a small percentage of most investorís holdings. Street Talk Live ìQuantitatve easing is NOT going away. Every major country is running a deficit. If they are all net borrowers then who is the lender? The central banks.†† For this reason ñ QE is not going away for a long time.î  QE programs will continue until such time that the Federal Reserve begins to see negative consequences.†† However, up to this point as Ben Bernanke has clearly reiterated, there has been NO evidence of any negative consequences. Of course, Janet Yellen, who is a front runner for Bernankeís replacement, also sees no negative impacts and says QE should be appropriate through at least 2025.†† Should you own bonds? In such an environment as currently exists, and will likely continue to exist, bonds are absolutely appropriate in a portfolio. Yields will be lower in the future ñ not higher. What About Stocks? Most individuals believe that the Fedís QE programs have propped up the stock market ñ they are right. However, there is a misconception. While there is ample evidence that the Fedís Q.E. programs have supported stock prices ñ QE is NOT a ìputî on stocks.†† In reality, QE is a ìputî on treasury and mortgage bonds as injections go directly into the bond market. This is why you should own TLT in your portfolio as long as QE remains in play. A Few Other Thoughts Copper is clearly saying that there is no economic growth going on. As opposed to what is reported - China is most likely growing near zero in reality. Understand that there is NO WORLD in which rates will rise with copper prices falling. Interest rates are currently telling the same story as copper ñ there is very little economic activity occurring. ìVolatility on bonds is at historic lows ñ bonds are acting like the bond market is manipulatedÖbecause it is.î Another point here is the mistake that all investors are currently making. DO NOT buy stocks for the dividend yield simply because they yield more than stocks. There is no guarantee that dividend yielding stocks will perform better in the long term versus owning bonds. History says that is unlikely to be the case. ìLet me reiterateÖ.bond yields are not going to rise. QE drives yields lower as it goes straight to the heart of the bond market.î Rates will not rise with real HIGH unemployment.  The unemployment (U-3) rates is a false measure of employment due to the high level of dropouts. All that really matters for the economy, and ultimately the bond market, is the labor force participation rate which is at the lowest level since the 80ís. Rates will not rise with median household incomes at the lowest level in 19 years. Rates will not rise as QE is all about funding the federal budget. if rates rise the budget will be blown and deficits will explode. Rates will not rise as it will kill any economic growth.†† Housing, private investment and consumer borrowing all rely on low interest rates. If rates rise it is the end game for the economy. Despite what you may have heard ñ the reality is that rates will not rise any time soon. This is the liquidity trap the Fed has gotten itself into. Furthermore, Bond indexing makes no sense into todayís market.†† However, emerging market bonds, on a very selective basis, will likely be lucrative as the global economic malaise continues in their developed counterparts. If the current financial experiment fails ñ the only place to be will be long US Treasuries. A decent hedge in the event of an economic disruption will be long US Treasuries and short French Bonds. As all European bonds converge toward 1% the reversion due to economic disruption could be hugely profitable. Own bonds? You bet. With corporate profits in the U.S. at all-time highs as a percent of GDP the repayment probability for bond holders is extremely high. However, this is also bad for holders of corporate stocks because the reversion of profits to GDP will be brutal. Financial Investment Thoughts Bank debt is likely a good bet particularly since the Fedís actions benefit them directly and they are unlikely to be allowed to default. Real Estate will go higher because of lack of supply.†† However, IF YOU BELIEVE that rates are going to rise DO NOT BUY A HOUSE.†† MLPís are massively leveraged and will lose tremendous value if rates rise. Talking heads on CNBC started talking about a new bull market in stocks.†† REALLY? That started 4 years ago folks.†† We are likely closer to the end of a bull market cycle than a beginning. Lastly, why own bonds, because they are negatively correlated to stocks. You may not get rich - but you will survive the long term investment game.
TEDThis is part of our series, "50 Women Who Are Changing The World." Amy Cuddy ranked #37. Everyone talks about the importance of "body language," but few people understand how much of an impact it actually has ó not just in the way others perceive us, but in terms of how we actually perform. Harvard Business School professor Amy Cuddy gave a great presentation at TED last summer about this. Certain "power poses" don't just change how others perceive you, Professor Cuddy says. They immediately change your body chemistry. And these changes affect the way you do your job and interact with other people. Professor Cuddy concluded her talk with a startling revelation about herself, one that led her to choke up momentarily. Then the talk ended in a standing ovation. The full video (21 minutes) is available here and at the end of the slides. I've pulled together Professor Cuddy's key points below.
Summer is almost here and that means Wall Streeters will be heading east for the Hamptons. So heed this as a friendly public service announcement... Hamptons native/handyman Joe†Schwenk, who Tweets under the handle @HamptonsBorn†(he's one of our favorite follows), chronicles his daily observations of ridiculous stuff hedge funders, bankers and people he calls "citiots" do every summer.† He didn't like something that JANA Partners' Barry Rosenstein did last weekend and called him out on Twitter. From his feed:† East Hampton Hedgie Barry Rosenstein. Who is he? He allegedly was a complete tool to one of my guys. So not cool. And right before summer 2! He won't allow my guys to park on public streets next to his house. Not smart! RT @aliasssss: @hamptonsbornBR is the biggest asshole EVER So will Barry Rosenstein be the Jeff Greene of Summer 2013? East Hamptonites: Fasten your seatbelts!
Flickr / clydeoramaThe U.S. stock markets are open and they are surging. Of note is Dow Jones Industrial Average, which briefly passed 15,000 for the first time ever a few seconds ago. Also of note is the S&amp;P 500, which is at 1,617. This is an all-time intraday high, and it is the first time the index has ever crossed 1,600. The market rally comes after a strong jobs report.¬† This morning we learned that U.S. companies added 165,000 nonfarm payrolls in April, which was much higher than the 140,000 expected by economists. The unemployment rate slipped to 7.5% from 7.6% a month ago.¬† This comes as the labor force participation rate remained unchanged at 63.3%.
You frequently hear about the "manufacturing revolution" in America, but more and more it looks like bunk. Neil Irwin (via Ryan McArthy) in today's Washington Post has a great line regarding the jobs report: Now, job creation is entirely confined to the services sector: Manufacturing had no net change in employment, construction lost 6,000 jobs, and even mining and logging was a net negative. In this chart, the blue bars are the total monthly change in job creation and the red bars are the change in manufacturing jobs. As you can see, manufacturing saw weakening in both of the last months, and in some recent months there was even negative job creation in the sector. If there were some big revolution, why would we be seeing these pathetic numbers so frequently? FRED
This summer thousands of kids will start Wall Street jobs or internships for the first time, and they need to know that it's going to be really hard. The hours are long, the bosses are demanding, and the lives they knew are going to disappear. That said: There are people who've conquered Wall Street, so Business Insider reached out to a number of them to get their take on what they wish they knew when they were first stepping into the ring. Pay attention. At the pinnacle of Sallie Krawcheck's career she was arguably the most powerful woman on Wall Street. Over a couple decades she went from top ranked analyst at Sanford Bernstein to president of Global Wealth &amp; Investment Management division of Bank of America. Now she's writing, advising on regulation and sitting on a number startup boards. So what does she wish she'd known? "I wish I had known that Wall Street is not just one business and that careers can be built along an array of different paths, depending on one's interests and skills," Krawcheck wrote to Business Insider in an e-mail. "There are jobs, such as wealth management, that involve building long-term relationships with individual and families....which are very different from businesses in trading, for example. I started in investment banking and thought it fine. After several years, I switched to Research and thought it was GREAT. Very different jobs and it took me some time to find the right career track for myself." So kids, the point is that you should try everything and see what fits if you can. Makes sense that Krawcheck would say that. She spent her youth trying everything. She was a track star, a cheerleader, a homecoming Queen, a Tri Delt and a journalist among other things. Before all that, though, she was awkward (which ended up helping her when she started at Salomon Brothers as an analyst in 1987). Here's what she told Fortune about that back in 2006: "[In middle school] I had the glasses, the braces, the corrective shoes. I was half-Jewish, half-WASPy. I couldn't have been further outcast," Krawcheck told Fortune magazine. "There was nothing they could do to me at Salomon Brothers in the '80s that was worse than the seventh grade."
Flickr/manthatcooksWe just got the April reading of the ISM non-manufacturing index, a reading of America's services industry. The headline number fell to 53.1 from 54.4 in March. This was below the 54.0 reading economists were looking for. While this represents a deceleration, any number above 50 signals growth. From the ISM: The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management‚Ñ¢ Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. "The PMI‚Ñ¢ registered 50.7 percent, a decrease of 0.6 percentage point from March's reading of 51.3 percent, indicating expansion in manufacturing for the fifth consecutive month, but at the lowest rate of the year. The New Orders Index increased in April by 0.9 percentage point to 52.3 percent, and the Production Index increased by 1.3 percentage points to 53.5 percent. The Employment Index registered 50.2 percent, a decrease of 4 percentage points compared to March's reading of 54.2 percent. The Prices Index registered 50 percent, decreasing 4.5 percentage points from March, indicating that overall raw materials prices remained unchanged from last month. Comments from the panel indicate a range of strong/steady growth, to flat/declining volumes, depending upon the particular industry." Here's a break down of the sub-indices: ISM
The unemployment rate is generally dropping for everyone. But just a reminder, there's still a huge difference in unemployment between those who have college degrees, and those who don't. Given all the talk these days about the value of a college degree, and whether it's all really worth it, this is a useful chart to see. People without college is the red line. Those with a bachelor's degree is the blue line. FRED For more on today's jobs report, see here &gt;
Flickr via Kheel Center, Cornell UniversityMarch factory orders fell -4%. Consensus estimates were for a -2.9% decline. Prior was revised lower to +1.9% from +3.0%. Shipments of manufactured durable goods in March, up six of the last seven months, increased $1.1 billion or 0.5 percent to $230.4 billion, revised from the previously published 0.4% increase.¬† This was at the highest level since the series was first published on a NAICS basis, and followed a 0.9% February increase. Here's the full report. Click here for updates &gt;
It wasn't long ago that Jamie Dimon was America's favorite banker ‚Äî shaking hands and wearing his Presidential cuff links on Congressional panels, admonishing bad bankers with speeches about "Old Testament justice." He was the head of the bank that didn't take America's money. But according to the NYT that kind fo cache can only last for so long. Ben Protess and Jessica Silver-Greenberg report that last month Dimon met with government officials at JP Morgan's headquarters. They warned him that he and his bank are losing credibility in Washington. There are number of reasons for this. Officials from the Office of the Comptroller of Currency told Dimon that they are considering enforcement action against the bank for the way it collected credit card debt, for it's failure to report Bernie Madoff, for withholding documents about its $6 billion trading loss, and for shady dealings in the energy market. From NYT: The 70-page document also took aim at a top bank executive, Blythe Masters. A seminal Wall Street figure, Ms. Masters is known for helping expand the boundaries of finance, including the development of credit default swaps, a derivative that played a role in the financial crisis. The regulatory document cites her supposed ‚Äúknowledge and approval of schemes‚Äù carried out by a group of energy traders in Houston. The agency‚Äôs investigators claimed that Ms. Masters had ‚Äúfalsely‚Äù denied under oath her awareness of the problems and said that JPMorgan had made ‚Äúscores of false and misleading statements and material omissions‚Äù to authorities, the document shows. It is unclear, as yet, if the regulator will file any type of action against JPM. It's a five member body and a majority of them have to approve the decision. For it's part, JPM has said that it will "vigorously" defend itself against any accusations. For more details on this story, head to NYT&gt;
John Moore/Getty ImagesFor a nation of immigrants, Americans are pretty hostile to those currently trying to enter their borders. That attitude and our policies that enforce are starting to cause trouble. First America is driving away the high-skill foreign workers that its economy desperately needs. Second, blocking young immigrant workers and their families could prove devastating to tax-funded entitlement programs. Instead U.S. policy leads to illegal immigration and all the problems and lost opportunities that go with it. And that's just the start. The following slides break down with charts exactly why America needs to bust through narrow-minded objections and reform immigration right now.
This morning we learned that the U.S. economy added 165,000 jobs in April.¬† And the unemployment rate fell to 7.5 percent. Overall, the jobs report was much better than expected. However, it continues to reflect a labor market that remains incredibly weak almost four years into the economic recovery. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This shows the depth of the recent employment recession ‚Äî worse than any other post-war recession ‚Äî and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. Calculated Risk
Entrepreneurs start businesses that create lots of jobs and inject innovation into the US economy. Start-up America is our difference maker. Our edge. But something seems to be going wrong. In another great note, ìWhere have all of the entrepreneurs gone?,î JPMorgan economist Mike Feroli highlights some disturbing trends with our entrepreneurial culture. 1. Net job growth is driven by new businesses. Existing establishments tend to shed jobs. But according to the Labor Departmentís new Business Employment Dynamics report, ìthe trend has clearly shifted. In 12Q3 opening establishments added 1.27 million jobs. In the last cycle this figure averaged closer to 1.5 million jobs per quarter, and in the 1990s the figure averaged 1.75 million per quarter.î Down, down, down. 2. Feroli notes that employment ìbirthsî ó a subset of openings not including reopenings of seasonal businesses ó are also weak. Employment births in 12Q3 as a percent of all employment held at 0.7% in 12Q3 for the fourteenth consecutive quarter. In contrast, this figure stood between 1.1% and 1.3% during the 1990s. And some charts highlight the problem: JP Morgan, AEI, James Pethokoukis The economist concedes ìit†is difficult to diagnose the cause of the decline in establishment birthsî ó especially since†entrepreneurial activity appeared to be trending lower even before the crisis. I have previously blogged about a Hudson Institute report with similar findings. JP Morgan, AEI, James Pethokoukis Hudsonís possible suspects for the slowdown: a) higher business taxes, b) Obamacare, c) an† IRS crackdown on US employers that hire U.S. workers as independent contractors rather than employees, and d) a steady barrier erected to entrepreneurs at the local policy level. But whatever the cause of the entrepreneurial decline, two possible impacts: 1) A less productive and innovative economy, and 2) higher profits for big business thanks to fewer upstart competitors on the horizon.
The big mover in the currency space after the strong jobs report: The dollar vs. the yen. The yen is traditionally a safe-haven play, so when the mood is good, and stocks are surging, then people dump the yen. Here's dollar-yen surging above 99. FinViz
Screengrab from spacexchannel on YouTubeThe April jobs report is out and the markets are jumping. Dow futures are now up 70 points after being down by 3 points just before the report. Nonfarm payrolls jumped by 165,000 in April, which was much stronger than the 140,000 expected by economists. The unemployment rate slipped to 7.5%. Click here for full coverage of the jobs report.
flickr / Pedro Ribeiro Sim√µesThe April number is out and it's good all around! This is a major relief for the economy, as people have been worried about slowing data. The 165,000 new jobs was above the 140,000 that was expected. The unemployment rate fell to 7.5%. It was expected to stay flat at 7.6%. And there were big upward revisions to last month, which was originally really weak. Here's what the announcement says about revisions, which were strong for both March and February. The change in total nonfarm payroll employment for February was revised from +268,000 to +332,000, and the change for March was revised from +88,000 to +138,000. With these revisions, employment gains in February and March combined were 114,000 higher than previously reported. This is just one report, but it's a huge relief, given the apparent weakening in data lately. In terms of breakdown by industry, there was a nice 29,000 increase in retail sales, which is great, given that this was weak in March. And here's another number indicating that the consumer is doing good: "Within leisure and hospitality, employment in food services and drinking places rose by 38,000 over the month." The public sector shed another 11,000 jobs. The full report is here.
Reuters/ Joshua RobertsYesterday at the ICI annual meeting in D.C., Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein was asked what advice he would give young people starting out their careers in finance and other industries. † "You have to understand that you can never give your own kids advice," he joked. †Blankfein has three kids ages 27, 25 and 19. Here's his best advice for everyone else, though. †Pay attention.† "Look, I started out, I didn't just go to law school, I practiced law. †Things ended up a lot different from where I thought they'd be. I would say people should go to a place and do something that's for the next period of their life and not to be so obsessive about where it's going to take you in the longer run. The longer run there's going to be a lot...Not only don't you know the context you're going to face, you don't even know yourself. And so the idea of planning these things and trying to do things on a course and 'Will this be good for me in the long run?' †I think people should take advantage of the fact that in this generation nobody's being drafted into the army. You can have a few years of experimentation that you can be liberated from the need to make sure everything is taking you on some straight line to some place because it turns out not to be a straight line anyway." "And also don't worry about learning the content of your business because to succeed you have to know content of what you're doing, but you have to be a complete person. I think in the early part of your life you should focus on being a complete person," he added. Well said.†
Flickr/FazenWhen the Bureau of Labor Statistics publishes the April jobs report at 8:30AM ET, economists expect to learn that the economy added 140,000 nonfarm payrolls during the month. That number is based on a Bloomberg survey. However, according to TD Securities' Millan Mulraine, the market is pricing in a lower number thanks to Wednesday's bad ADP jobs number. From Mulraine's note: Even though the current market consensus is for 140K, the post-ADP price action suggests that the true position in the market (the whisper number) may be for something closer to 125K. Our expectation is for an upside surprise, and we expect an asymmetric response favoring upside surprises. Risk-reward favors going short Treasuries into this number. To be sure, we suspect that slowing growth momentum and uncertainty related to the impact of fiscal austerity have tempered hiring activity. However, we believe that the economy is in better shape than last month's 88K payrolls print suggests. In other words, if the nonfarm payrolls number comes in above 125,000, all things being equal the markets should react positively.
Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Gold continues to strengthen. It's now up to $1481/oz. Remember that at its recent low, it was in the low $1300s. Kitco
Hereís our update of last Novemberís post of the worldís fastest and slowest growing economies ranked by 2013 GDP growth.† The growth estimates and nominal GDP data are from the April  IMF World Economic Outlook database. We still note, the law of small numbers in the growth economies.† Excluding China from the Top 40, for example,† the 39 fastest growing economies in 2013 have an average size of $78 billion.† This contrasts to the slowest growth economies with an average nominal GDP in dollar of $470.†† Note Germanyís rank as the 23rd slowest growth economy.† Furthermore,† 5 of top 11 slowest economies are eurozone countries. Similar to stocks, growth is, generally, in the† ìsmall capî countries. Global Macro Monitor Global Macro Monitor Read more posts on Global Macro Monitor ª
Bitcoin Continues To Weak. It's down to $89. It was at $95 yesterday, and just a few days ago it was around $150. From ClarkMoody.com: http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/
After a bailout that decimated the country's banking system, the EU has just put out an official projection for what the Cypriot economy is expected to do this year. The projection is part of a bigger set of projections, which can be found here. As for Cyprus, look for shrinkage of just under 9%. Cyprus
A major casualty of China's slowdown (discussed here) has been one of its key natural resources supplier, Australia. Many Australians feel misled by all the projections of China's growing demand, believing that China will continue beating its yearly 8% growth projections. The Australian: - China outperformed for a decade its own government's 8 per cent growth target, which was lowered to 7.5 per cent for last year and this year. And Australia's budget planners were confident China's economy would keep surpassing the official target.  They forecast that China's economic growth, the core driver for Australian commodity sales and thus of our formerly burgeoning terms of trade, would bottom out at 8.5 per cent last year, rebounding higher this year. The current budget also was based on 2012 growth reaching 6.25 per cent in India and 2.25 per cent in Japan.  But China's growth for last year ended up at 7.8 per cent, India's at 4.5 per cent and Japan's at 2 per cent. The forecasts were thus overestimated by 8.3 per cent, 28.1 per cent and 8.9 per cent respectively.  China is Australia's top export buyer, Japan the second and India the fourth. So these outcomes had a big impact on budgeted receipts.  Last year's budget papers forecast "economic conditions in China to remain solid", and that Australian resource companies, high-end manufacturers, service providers and rural commodity producers would all gain more opportunities "as the Asian Century proceeds", brandishing the government's mantra of the day. They insisted that "China has the capacity to use macro-economic policy to stimulate growth", and that terms of trade would remain "close to their highest sustained levels in 140 years". Right... So much for the "Asian Century" - at least for now. The deterioration in Australia's fundamentals has been harsh, as exports and new orders plunged in the last few months. Australian Industry Group: - Reflecting ongoing weakness in the global economy and the high Australian dollar, the manufacturing exports sub-index worsened again in April. The exports sub-index fell 2.9 points to 24.5 (seasonally adjusted) in April, marking the  ninth consecutive month of contraction and the lowest reading for the exports sub-index in the history of this series (commencing in 2004). SoberLook And Australia's overall manufacturing index hit the lowest level since 2009, with the nation's manufacturing sector in full contraction. SoberLook The Reserve Bank of Australia has been holding rates steady for much too long, believing in some sort of miracle from China (per government's forecast). What makes their job particularly difficult is the fact that both the US and Japan are conducting unprecedented monetary expansion, thus putting upward pressure on the Australian dollar. And that makes Australian products less competitive in global markets, particularly versus South American competitors (see post). The Australian: - [Matthew Johnson (UBS)] said any further easing in the US would force the RBA to cut interest rates to stop the [Australian] dollar from being propelled higher.¬† Now the RBA has little choice but to ease monetary policy by lowering short term rates. Given the worsening economic fundamentals and most major central banks' highly accommodative policies, the RBA will be forced to abandon its normally hawkish stance. It may be Australia's turn to enter the currency war. SoberLook
Most of the 35 councils holding elections in England and Wales will not declare their results until later today but with six results in so far, the Tories had lost 74 seats and relinquished control of two local authorities. The Lib Dems lost 16 seats but Ukip were the night's biggest winners with 42 gains. Labour added 26 council seats to their tally. Ukip increased its share of the vote significantly and claimed second place behind Labour in the by-election taking place in David Miliband's former seat of South Shields. The Liberal Democrats secured just 352 votes in the contest, losing their deposit. Mr Farage said his party was showing itself capable of winning seats in Parliament. "It's been a remarkable result for us," he said. "We have always done well in European elections... but people haven't seen us as being relevant to local elections or in some ways general elections. "So for us to be scoring, on average, 26% of the vote where we stand is I think very significant indeed." "This wave of protest certainly isn't short-term, it's lasting," he told Daybreak on ITV1. "If we get a by-election that comes up in the next few months that is not a safe Tory or Labour seat, but is a marginal, I think weíve got every chance of winning it." He argued that the key issue for his party would be the scale of any increase in immigration from Bulgaria and Romania. ìI think to a large extent what will determine UKIPís success next year and the year after is what happens with Romania and Bulgaria. ìWe have put out the the big warning that a lot of people are coming and it will lead to unemployment and, Iím afraid, more crime in our citiesÖWeíve had 30,000 Romanian arrests in London alone in the last five years, it is very, very worrying.î A Ukip spokesman said the party was "delighted" and on course to win "well over" 100 county council seats, with counting still to take place in 28 English authorities and the Isle of Anglesey in Wales. He said the council successes were a "stepping stone" to the party's eventual aim of winning parliamentary elections. He added: "If this is any sign at all, it will make a few MPs feel a bit less comfortable in their parliamentary seats.î Grant Shapps, the Conservative Party chairman conceded that Ukip had had a good night. "Ukip have done well, I don't make any secret about that at all. We need to make sure that we are addressing the concerns of the public," he told Daybreak. "We have lost a lot of good councillors in the counts overnight. People have sent a message, we get it, we hear what people are saying, people are concerned that we get on with the big issues facing hard-working people in this country, like fixing the economy, sorting out the welfare system, helping hard-working people to get on. "We have seen that we have managed to get the deficit down by a third, immigration down by a third and we are working to make sure that in this country work always pays. "There is a lot more to do, there's two years to go until the next election and in the end it will be a choice between whether you want Ed Balls and Ed Miliband, for Labour, in Downing Street or David Cameron trying to make sure that this country is always a place where hard-working people can get on." In the local elections, Ukip won 16 seats in Lincolnshire, 10 in Hampshire, nine in Essex, three in Gloucestershire, three in Somerset and one in Dorset. The South Shields contest, triggered by David Miliband's decision to quit as an MP, was won by Labour's Emma Lewell-Buck with a reduced majority of 6,505. Ukip's Richard Elvin secured 24 per cent of the vote, but it was a bad result for the Conservatives who finished third and a humiliation for the Liberal Democrats. Nick Clegg's party lost its deposit after securing just 352 votes, finishing in seventh position behind an independent, an independent socialist and the BNP. Overnight counts took place at six authorities which were held by Conservatives, who retained control in Dorset, Essex, Hampshire and - narrowly - Somerset, where they lost five seats and the Liberal Democrats lost four. But as well as in Lincolnshire, they lost overall control in Gloucestershire, where there were four gains for Labour and three for Ukip. Initial results in Staffordshire, where counting will continue later, saw some Labour gains and the Conservatives losing their hold on Tamworth. Of the six Tory-held county council seats up for grabs in the borough, three fell to Labour and a fourth to an independent candidate. Tamworth's Tory MP Christopher Pincher acknowledged the impact of Ukip but said the predicted defeat of his party had failed to materialise. He said: "Clearly, some of our vote has switched to Ukip - probably some Labour voters have as well - so we have to make sure that we redouble our efforts to explain to our supporters and potential supporters what we are doing on the issues that matter to them, like immigration, like welfare reform, like Europe. "I think one of the key things that people have to recognise is that if you vote Ukip and you're a Conservative you end up with a Labour county councillor." Senior politicians from the three main parties attempted to explain the rise of Ukip, which could have major implications, particularly for David Cameron as he attempts to calm the fears of Conservatives who are anxious about the gains. The Prime Minister is under pressure from within his party to enshrine in law before the 2015 election his commitment to hold an in/out referendum on the UK's membership of the European Union. Mr Cameron has promised the public a vote before the end of 2017 if he wins the next election, but London mayor Boris Johnson is among those calling for him to legislate for that commitment in this Parliament. Justine Greening, the Tory International Development Secretary, said Ukip did not have any "substance" and insisted the Government was listening to people's concerns. She told BBC1's Question Time: "I think as people take more of a look at Ukip they will be able to form their own opinion about whether there is any substance underneath the policies. "I personally don't think that there is but I think it's up to voters to decide, obviously." But Deputy Labour leader Harriet Harman warned that Ukip's rise was a "wake-up call" for the parties, while saying that she felt some of the party's politics were quite 'threatening'. She said: "We should listen very seriously if people are feeling disaffected and disenchanted. It is a challenge to us. It's a wake-up call for us to actually listen to people who feel that times are hard and wonder whether any of us have actually got the answers." She added: "I don't take the easy assumption 'Oh well, it's great because it's going to take votes off the Conservatives'. I think some of their politics is quite threatening and we shouldn't be complacent either." Lib Dem veteran Baroness Williams of Crosby told the programme Ukip would not "last that long" as a political force and they were "essentially...trading on protest". Former Lib Dem MP Lembit Opik demanded a "credible explanation from Nick Clegg regarding what would happen after South Shields. Mr Opik, who lost his Montgomeryshire seat in 2010, said: "Veteran members deserve to know how this electoral crisis will be fixed." A Lib Dem source warned Ukip posed a "serious problem" for Mr Cameron and would prevent a Tory majority in 2015. The source said: "Most people who voted Ukip are ex-Tories who don't think the Conservative Party is conservative enough. "They pose a very serious problem for David Cameron. He must either shift the Tories to the right, and so lose centre ground voters to the Liberal Democrats, or shift his party to the centre, and split the right, helping the Liberal Democrats. "Some people who voted Ukip did so to register a protest, and some of these used to register their protest by voting Lib Dems. We understand their frustration. And we understand why they didn't vote for us this time - because we are no longer a party of protest; we are a party of government.î The source added: "These results are set to prove that the Tories can't win a majority in 2015, partly because the Lib Dems remain strong in held seats, and partly because Ukip has peeled off a significant section of Tory support." 
We've called this chart the most beautiful stock market indicator in the world. It overlays the S&amp;P 500 (blue line) vs. initial jobless claims (inverted, red line). For years now, the two lines have matched up perfectly. And it continues, as the stock market sits at record highs, while initial claims fall to post-recession lows. Michael O'Rourke of JonesTrading brought up the indicator yesterday in his nightly note: †We definitely view Initial Claims as a key indicator.† I have used the relationship between lower claims and a higher S&amp;P 500 as an indicator for some time now (going back to 2009).† Back then I was among the few using it, today its use is commonplace.† We believed the relationship would fade as claims approached the pre-crisis constant of 300,000.† Since the market is at new highs, however, perhaps we were too quick to discount this indicator.† Nonetheless, now that we are within 10% of that pre-crisis constant, we still find it challenging to get too excited.† And here's the chart. FRED
I‚Äôve been getting into Solar lately ‚Äì the fall in prices has been absolutely shocking over the last 2-4 years. We are seeing price drops closer to 20% per year after several decades at 6% price drops per year. 6% year is a fantastic rate of decreases, but 20% is simply astonishing. 20% is an impressive number, but putting it into context will make your jaw drop with astonishment. My calculations show that if solar maintains 5 more years at current 23% rates per year price drops, solar power will be cheaper than using existing coal plants. That‚Äôs right ‚Äì it will be cheaper to build new solar plants than to use existing coal plants. It sounds absolutely crazy. But it seems true looking at the data. First, look at this paper showing the levelized cost levels for using Coal and Natural gas. In this chart, we can see the Levelized cost of electricity for different types of energy. Photovoltaic Solar has a high initial cost, but after paying for the system, the cost goes to the lowest among any source of energy. Great news, but the initial cost for solar is quite high. It‚Äôs high enough to make almost anyone not want to use solar. Monetary Realism You can see the price drops for every single source of energy drops after 20 years, because the capital cost of building the plant is paid. After 20 years, the only costs are maintenance and fuel costs. It‚Äôs important to note after 20 years, coal drops to about $.05 per watt. That‚Äôs the cost of the fuel and maintenance for the plant. But wait! These prices for PV solar are from 2010. We are in early 2013. You‚Äôd think three years would not make much difference, but you would be wrong. Prices have been dropping at over 20% per year since 2010. As far as I can tell, installed PV solar prices have been falling at 22% per year over the last several years. Those are huge, huge drops in price over a few years. If you think 22% is too high, take a look at this chart from Forbes. Monetary Realism I did the calculations using estimates of the price drops shown in this chart for utility level solar. Q1 2011 is $3.80, and Q3 is $2.40. You can put this into¬†Wolfram Alpha¬†and it will give you the answer right away: 23% The recent¬†First Solar announcement expects prices¬†of $.65 per watt in 2013 and $.48 per watt in 2015. Put this into¬†Wolfram Alpha and we get a price drop of 14% per year. Bloomberg shows a huge price drop in 2012 of nearly 50% in 2011, and 20%+ in 2012. Let‚Äôs use 18% as the yearly price drop as an estimate for the yearly price drop since 2010, and then plug this into the levelized cost of energy used in the Zwiebel paper. The current prices for PV solar are probably close to $.09. This is still higher than coal for existing plants, but much lower than in 2010. But the more remarkable data point is that we can expect solar to be cheaper than existing (not new) coal is in just a few years. We can¬†expect some solar to be cheaper than existing coal in 2016. That‚Äôs when the levelized cost of newly installed¬†PV solar should be cheaper than using an existing coal plant. That‚Äôs not far away at all. And then just a few years after that, PV solar could become much, much cheaper than coal. Imagine 10 years at 18% drops in price. Where would the price of PV Solar be then? ¬†It will be¬†about 50% of the price of coal. I hate to speculate, but imagine PV solar drops at 18% per year for 20 years? ¬†Solar¬†will be about 1/10th the cost of coal. ¬† Basically, people will start begging for Solar power in just a few years, because it will be so much cheaper than coal power. Even if we use the First Solar numbers ‚Äì which is almost certainly a low ball estimate - we are still talking 15% per year price drops in installed PV Solar. Even using 12% a year, Solar becomes cheaper than coal in under 10 years. 18% is a pretty big number, but we have seen much, much larger decreases in price over the last 2 years. Over the last 5 years, we‚Äôve seen far larger drops than 18% per year. The pipe line for putting new PV solar discoveries into production makes it pretty clear we can see 18% for the next 5 years at least ‚Äì and if that is the case, PV solar will be cheaper than coal. But that‚Äôs not even everything. Something to notice in the Forbes article is the lowest number for installed utility solar. The lowest number for installed PV Solar was under $2.00 per watt in Q3 2012. This lowest number is going to drop at a healthy clip too ‚Äì and that is the number some people are going to be looking at when they consider their own projects. In some places, PV Solar will be cheaper than coal in under 3 years. Then, there is this¬†Edison Electrical Institute report to consider.¬† One prominent example is in the area of distributed solar PV, where the threats to the centralized utility business model have accelerated due to: In the first bullet point, they note that Solar¬†has gone down in price by about 22.5% per year for the last 4 years up to mid 2012. Using 22% going forward, we can expect to see Solar competitive with coal across much of the country in just a few years.¬† In the second bullet point, they note that PV solar is cost competitive for 16% of the market¬†today. And it will be cost competitive with 33% of the market by 2017! ¬† This is absolutely huge. In just 4 years, Solar will be competitive with current power for 100 for a huge part of the market. But this is not all from this report. The real banger comes in that shifting even a small amount of generated power over to PV solar will cause coal prices to go up for consumers still using coal. "Assuming a decline in load, and possibly customers served, of 10 percent due to DER with full subsidization of DER (distributed energy resources)participants, the average impact on base electricity prices for non-DER participants will be a 20 percent or more increase in rates, and the ongoing rate of growth in electricity prices will double for non- DER participants (before accounting for the impact of the increased cost of serving distributed resources). The fundamental drivers previously highlighted could suggest even further erosion of utility market share if public policy is not addressed to normalize this competitive threat.‚Äù This is probably too high of an estimate, but they say coal/natural gas power prices could go up by 20% if Solar takes over 10% of the market, and the rate of future price increases will double. Monetary Realism Ouch! I did a quick chart in R to figure out how quickly Solar will be cheaper than even pretty cheap coal electricity, with a variety of cost per year reductions. It turns out solar will be cheaper than even cheap coal in 20 years as long as the price reductions are greater than 4% per year. Solar will be cheaper than cheap coal in 10 years as long as price falls at more than 15% per year. Remember, we‚Äôve seen price reductions of more than 22% per year for the last 5 years. Solar will be cheaper than cheap coal if this keeps up for another 5 years. These price reductions add up very quickly. If we can keep up the 20% per year for 15 years, we are talking about essentially free power, because the cost of solar will be 3% of its current levels, and 1/10th the cost of current coal. It‚Äôs remarkable. And it has implications for our monetary system. Read more great stuff at Monetary Realism --&gt;
Instagram/kannen321 Today we get official numbers on how many jobs the U.S. economy created in April. The median estimate among market economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for 140,000 new nonfarm payrolls, up from last month's dismal 88,000 figure. Private payrolls are expected to come in at 151,000, implying an 11,000-head reduction in government employment last month. ADP's monthly employment report released Wednesday estimated that only 119,000 new private payrolls were added in April, well below consensus estimates for a 150,000 print. On the other hand, we've seen some fantastic improvement in the trend in initial jobless claims over the past few weeks. Thursday's weekly claims release revealed that initial claims fell to 324,000 in the week ended April 27, notching a new post-crisis low. BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris is on the bearish side of the consensus estimate. He thinks the report will reveal that only 125,000 new nonfarm payrolls were created in April. He also expects the headline unemployment rate to tick up to 7.7%. Why? The sequester. Harris writes in a preview of the report: There are a number of factors potentially influencing non-farm payrolls this month. First, the sequester likely reduced government jobs and weighed on private sector expansion. Although the government did most of its cost cutting through furloughs, we suspect there were also some outright job cuts. We are penciling in a decline of 25,000, but the risk is that this is too conservative. Moreover, the private sector will likely be impacted. At a minimum, it likely reduced hiring in those industries most closely exposed to the government, such as defense contracting. We think it will ultimately result in outright job cuts, but this may occur with a lag, as suggested by the continued drop in initial jobless claims. Second, there has been greater-than-normal seasonality in the past two months. March was particularly cold with snowfall in parts of the country, likely curbing economic activity. This would show up in retail and construction jobs in particular, which we think were both held back in March due to the weather. There is another reason to expect a weak nonfarm payrolls number tomorrow: the April survey only covers four weeks of data, as opposed to the typical five-week window used to conduct the survey. UBS economists are looking for a below-consensus print of 130,000 nonfarm payrolls, but they attribute it to the shortened time period covered by the April survey. "The softness in headline†payrolls that we forecast reflects technical oddities rather than fundamental†weakening," says UBS economist Sam Coffin. "The relatively short interval between March and April payroll surveys,†with a four-week rather than five-week gap between them, has historically been†associated with April payrolls about 60,000 below the surrounding trend." SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale economist Brian Jones acknowledges this effect in his preview of the Friday jobs report as well, but is decidedly more optimistic: he projects 175,000 new nonfarm payrolls in April and expects the unemployment rate to tick†down to 7.5%. In his preview, Jones writes: Capping a week of decidedly spotty data, we expect the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) to report that the employment situation in the United States improved further in April. Although once again falling shy of the psychologically important 200,000 mark, nonfarm establishments probably added 175,000 net new workers last month, marginally eclipsing the 168,000 first-quarter average. Estimated insured unemployment statistics, meanwhile, suggest that the civilian jobless rate remained on a downtrend during the month just passed, moving one tick lower to 71/2% ñthe lowest reading since the end of 2008. The remaining key establishment survey metrics are projected to be mixed in Fridayís report. Average hourly earnings likely quickened, rising by 0.2% following no change in the preceding month. The mean work span of private employees probably shortened to 34.5 hours. The April nonfarm payrolls report is due out at 8:30 AM ET. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider &gt;
koalazymonkey / Flickr, CCIt's Jobs Day in America! Later on, at 8:30 AM ET, we get the Non-Farm Payrolls report in April. In the meantime, there's nothing going on in markets really. US futures are flat. Europe isn't doing much. Asia was mixed, with China rallying, and Japan falling a bit. Concerns about the state of the economy have definitely increased lately, and we got a weak ADP report Wednesday, so there's a lot of anxiety about today's report. On the other hand, markets have been amazingly buoyant, shrugging off a downturn in the data.
