Unreal. Another day, another surge for the Nikkei. The big event is USDJPY breaking 100. Nikkei.com
It's no secret that the unemployment rate for those with college degrees is much lower than the rate for those without.¬† And the fluctuations in the their respective unemployment rates have been very similar for as long as we can remember. However, comparing the unemployment rates alone ignores some significant deterioration in the dynamics of the college-educated population. Goldman Sachs economist Jan Hatzius examines this in a brief note to clients. First, here's a look at the unemployment rates for college grads and those who didn't make it out of high school.¬† No surprises here: Goldman Sachs One worrying trend in the labor market has been the drop in the labor force participation rate.¬† Intuitively, one might think that the labor force participation rate would fall more for the those with less education due to lack of skills (i.e. the skills mismatch issue). However, this assumption is just wrong. "As shown in Exhibit 2, the labor force participation rates of college graduates have actually fallen by more than those of workers without a high school education," wrote Hatzius. Check it out: Goldman Sachs This is where things get interesting. "[T]he faster job growth among college graduates is entirely due to faster growth in the size of the college-educated population; the employment/population ratio among college graduates has in fact fallen sharply," wrote Hatzius. In other words, America's colleges are cranking graduates so quickly that even though increasing numbers of them drop out of the labor force, the unemployment rate has effectively fluctuated right in line with the unemployment rate of those with less than high school degrees. Considering all this, the most appropriate way to compare the two demographics is to compare employment rates relative to populations, which allows us to bypass the labor force participation rate issue. That leads us to this damning chart from Hatzius: Goldman Sachs Oy. Here's Hatzius again to hammer it in: [T]he employment/population ratio has fallen just as sharply among college graduates as among high school dropouts since 2007; in other words, the growth in the absolute number of employed college graduates has been nowhere near enough to offset the increase in the size of the college-educated population. It just goes to show there's more to the store than the headline numbers. "At first glance, [the unemployment rates] might suggest the US labor market problem is primarily due to mismatch between the supply and demand for different skill and education levels," he said. "But a second glance tells a different story."
Just recently the April employment report was released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) which showed a surprise jump in employment for the month of April of 165,000 jobs.¬† The general consensus for the report was 153,000 jobs so the "better than expected" news was credited to the surge in the financial markets. There has been much analysis of the data since the report with views that ranged from ebullient to dismissive.¬† However, the reality is that, despite better than expected numbers in the report, employment gains to this point have been nothing more than a function of population growth.¬† The chart below shows the 12 month average of the net change in both employment and population.¬†¬† As you can see there have been very few months since the turn of the century where employment has exceeded population growth. Street Talk Live This explains two things: 1) Why the employment to population ratio has plunged along with the labor force participation rate; and 2) That employment gains, so far, have been a function of businesses hiring only to meet the demand increases caused by an increase in population rather than from a growing economy. The latter point is very important and relates directly to an issue that has been lurking silently in the background called "labor hoarding." Since the end of the recession businesses have been increasing their bottom line profitability by massive cost cuts rather than increased revenue.¬† Of course, one of the highest "costs" to any business is labor.¬† One way that we can measure this view is by looking at corporate profits on a per employee basis.¬†¬† Currently, that ratio is at the highest level on record.¬† (Scale below is inverted for clarity) Street Talk Live The problem that businesses are beginning to face currently is that while they have slashed labor costs to the bone there is a point to where businesses simply cannot cut further.¬†¬† At this point businesses have to begin to "hoard" what labor they have, maximize that labor force's productivity (increase output with minimal increases in labor costs) and hire additional labor, primarily temporary, only when demand forces expansion. The issue of "labor hoarding" also explains the sharp drop in initial weekly jobless claims.¬† In order to file for unemployment benefits an individual must have been first terminated, by layoff or discharge, from their previous employer.¬† An individual who "quits" a job cannot, in theory, file for unemployment insurance.¬† However, as companies begin to layoff or discharge fewer workers the number of individuals filing for initial claims decline.¬† This is shown in the chart below which shows the 4-month average of layoff and discharges versus the 4-week average of initial jobless claims. Street Talk Live However, the mistake is assuming that just because initial claims are declining that the economy, and specifically full-time employment, is markedly improving.¬† The next chart shows initial jobless claims versus the full-time employment to population ratio. Street Talk Live Furthermore, if we take a look at the 4-month average of net new hires we see the same story.¬† Net new hires is likely signaling the peak of the employment for the current economic cycle. Street Talk Live The issue of "labor hoarding" is an important phenomenon that is likely obscuring the real weakness in the underlying economy.¬† Without an increase in the demand part of the equation businesses are likely to continue resorting to further productivity increases to stretch the current labor force farther to protect profitability.¬† However, as we may currently be witnessing, businesses may be reaching the limits of what they can do to continue increasing profits at the bottom line while revenue declines at the top.¬† The implications for the financial markets going forward are clearly negative. The "good news" is that for those that are currently employed - job safety is high.¬† Businesses are indeed hiring; but prefer to hire from the "currently employed" labor pool rather than the unemployed masses.¬† The "bad news" is that for those unemployed full-time employment remains elusive and wages remain suppressed due to the high competition for available work. The current detachment between the financial markets and the real economy continues.¬† The Federal Reserve's interventions continues to create a wealth effect for market participants, however, it is unfortunate that such a wealth effect is only enjoyed by a small minority of the total population - and it is primarily those at the upper end of the pay scale that have jobs.
The world is hungry for palm oil, but as the biggest producer countries run out of viable land for planting palm trees, the production landscape is shifting. The best growing conditions for palm trees exist in a tight band around the equator, limiting the number of places the crop can be successfully farmed, according to Tan Ting Min, Head of Malaysia Research at Credit Suisse in Kuala Lumpur.  In a recent report, ìAsia Palm Oil Sector: A Year of Two Halves,î Tan wrote that although nearly 5 million hectares of palm trees are already planted in Malaysia, only between 200,000 and 300,000 are likely to be available in the future. Indonesia, the worldís largest palm oil producer, is planting less than half of the new field acreage it was in 2003. Together, the two countries supply 85 percent of the worldís palm oil. At the same time, demand for the relatively cheap oil keeps rising. Global demand for vegetable oils has been growing steadily by 3 to 4 percent a year for the last 30 years, Tan said. Malaysia currently accounts for 39 percent of global palm oil production and 44 percent of total exports, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Council. But global demand for palm oil has been growing at an 8-percent-a-year clip, Tan says, and the cheapest oil by bulk has taken market share from other types of vegetable oil. The vast bulk of palm oil is used for food, especially as cooking oil. ìRegardless of whether thereís a recession or an economic boom, demand should be on a steady upward trend because of population growth and because of rising per capita income in emerging countries,î Tan told The Financialist. ìChina, India and Indonesia are the three largest consumers of palm oil, and they are the three most populous countries in the world.î The appetite for palm-based biodiesel is also growing. Before a sharp drop in crude oil prices in early May, palm biodiesel was trading lower than black gold, making it commercially viable without subsidies for the first time since 2007, according to Tan. Most palm biodiesel goes to Europe, and in the U.S., a tax credit that benefits fuel suppliers that mix biodiesel into their gasoline went into effect at the beginning of the year. ìBefore 2007, the usage of palm biodiesel was close to zero. Today, worldwide, 10 percent of palm oil is directed into biodiesel, so it has grown significantly, and itís actually supported by all these government policies,î Tan told The Financialist. ìThatís half the reason why palm oil prices, together with all other vegetable oil prices, have done extremely well.î The Situation Right Now Palm oil prices have recovered from the bottom, due to better demand, Credit Suisse Head of Malaysia Research Tan Ting Min told The Financialist. Indonesia, the worldís largest supplier, does not release official figures on palm oil production. But Malaysia, the second-largest producer, reported that exports rose 5.5 percent in March, up 13 percent from the previous year. Tan said that the increases partly reflect tax changes that the Malaysian government implemented at the beginning of the year to compete more effectively with Indonesian exports. But even with prices rising, palm oil remained cheaper than either soybean oil or crude oil, making it attractive as a substitute cooking oil and for biodiesel, respectively. But Tan expects palm oil prices to come down significantly in the second half of the year. American farmers plan to plant the fourth-largest soybean crop in history, while South American soybean harvests are expected to be 29 percent higher than last year. The abundant supply should push down prices and make soybean oil a much cheaper alternative to palm oil for cooking. But an increasingly vocal environmental movement is making it harder for large plantation companies to expand as aggressively as in the past in both Malaysia and Indonesia, Tan said. In 2011, for example, the Indonesian government signed a pact with Norway, agreeing to enforce a two-year moratorium on new permits to clear forests for palm planting in exchange for $1 billion in aid from the oil-rich country. Scouting for the Next Palm Oil Frontier In response to the supply pressures, many companies are looking to a new continent. ìCompanies have really started going into Africa because itís going to be the next new frontier,î Tan said. The start has not been entirely smooth, Tan said. She expects that it will take a full decade for operations to ramp up to the point where African operations move beyond filling local demand to exporting. ìItís really in the infancy stage at the moment,î Tan said. Because of a lack of workers with palm oil experience, ìplantation companies who are now in Africa tell me that they have to train everyone from scratch,î she said. Two major companies, Sime Darby and Golden Agri-Resources, have started plantations in Liberia, Tan said. Accusations of land grabs and poor working conditions have dogged Sime Darby, though the company has vigorously denied the claims. The practices of Golden Veroleum Liberia, which is owned by a U.S.-based company that counts Golden Agri-Resources as a major investor, have also been called into question. But even in the established producer countries, growers have had to contend with environmental groups that are especially concerned about the impact of clearing forests to make room for palm oil groves. In an effort to improve the industryís reputation, most of the biggest growers have joined the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. The group, which also includes sustainability advocates, investors and retailers, has created a set of guidelines for sustainable growing methods. ìConsumers want to make sure the big companies are actually buying from a sustainable source,î Tan said. ìSo the big companies put pressure on the plantations to practice environmental responsibility. It is a long-term issue ñ it is going to be here to stay.î
via LinkedInWe see a lot of personnel news about new hires on on Wall Street, but not every one stands out like this. Tom Ernst, a Goldman Sachs hire who served as a U.S. Navy submarine officer, has an impressive rÈsumÈ that couldn't help but catch our attention.† Goldman hired Ernst from Deutsche Bank where he works as a senior equity analyst. According to his LinkedIn, he's on "mandatory vacation." He's joining the bank's†Technology, Media &amp; Telecom group as a managing director and†will also be the global co-head of the firm's software banking business. He will be based in San Francisco and will begin his new job with Goldman in July. † "Tom is regarded as one of the most visionary technology research analysts," according to an internal email at the firm, the contents of which have been confirmed by Goldman.† Now here's a rundown of some of his accomplishments. †† Reuters†first reported the news†of the hire.
Alan AbelsonSad news on Wall Street today:† Veteran Barron's columnist†Alan Abelson has died at 87. Alan wrote one of the most-read columns in the financial world for almost 50 years. Barron's editor Ed Finn just published the following note about Alan, which Barron's was kind enough to give us permission to publish. Financial journalism lost one of its leading lights today when Alan Abelson died at the age of 87. Alan had served†Barron's†as a writer, editor, and chief columnist for the past 57 years. For many readers, there can be no substitute for Alan's witty, wise and wonderfully written comments each week in Up and Down Wall Street. But Alan's contributions toBarron's, and to financial journalism, go beyond his marvelous column. During his career, Alan trained dozens of journalists to be skeptical, to be exacting, to help average investors, and to be on the lookout for Wall Street's crooks. About 10 of these fine journalists still work at†Barron's, I'm happy to say. Others have gone on to do groundbreaking work at The New York Times, Bloomberg BusinessWeek, and numerous financial newsletters. One of the unique things about Alan was that his keen knowledge of Wall Street was matched by his love of artful writing. Before Alan began his newspaper career in 1947, he earned a bachelor's degree in English and Chemistry from The City College of New York and a master's degree from the prestigious Writers Workshop at the University of Iowa, which counts among its alumni Flannery O'Connor, Jane Smiley and John Irving. In our view, Alan ranks among them. Alan arrived at†Barron's†in 1956 and began writing his column in 1966. When Alan interviewed me for a job at†Barron's†in 1993, he was 67. He had been†Barron'seditor for a dozen years and its managing editor for 16 years before that. He told me he didn't really want to manage people or edit stories anymore, but that he did enjoy writing his column. That's when I came to†Barron's†to manage and edit. Fortunately for me, forBarron's†and for our readers, Alan kept writing his column for the next 20 years, week in and week out, always with gracious prose, sharp insights and a hilarious sense of humor. Alan's quest for truth and justice greatly enriched the traditions begun by Clarence Barron, who bought Dow Jones &amp; Co. in 1902 and founded this magazine in 1921. A year earlier, Clarence Barron's stories had exposed Charles Ponzi, the Boston swindler who gave rise to the phrase "Ponzi scheme." In 2001, thanks in large part to editors who trained under Alan,†Barron's†published the first major story that questioned the investment claims of Bernie Madoff. Seven years later, Madoff was charged by the government and proved to be the Ponzi of our era. Now is the time to salute Alan and to rededicate ourselves to carrying on his mission. If you would like to contribute a remembrance or tribute to Alan for publication in next week's issue, please leave a comment below (subscription required), e-mail us ateditors@barrons.com, or write to us at Barron's, 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, N.Y., 10036. --Ed Finn†Editor and President†Barron's Here's a link to one of Alan's last columns, which ran in February &gt;
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How To Construct A Diversified Portfolio (Vanguard via Josh Brown) A new white paper from Vanguard says there are six key components to creating a diversified portfolio. 1. "Defined investment goals and constraints." 2. "Broad strategic allocation among the primary asset classes such as equities, fixed income, and cash." 3. "Sub-asset allocation within classes, such as U.S. or non-U.S. equities or large-, mid-, or small-capitalization equities, and so on." 4. "Allocation to indexed and/or actively managed assets." 5. "For taxable investors, allocation of investments in taxable and/or tax-advantaged accounts." 6. "Selection of individual managers, funds, or securities to fill allocations."  Regulators Warn Those Trying To Buy Or Sell Their Pensions (FINRA) Both the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) have told retirees that selling or buying pensions or settlement income streams to be cautious. This is because they could carry hidden costs and high rates. "Anyone receiving a monthly pension or regular distributions from a settlement following a personal injury lawsuit may be targeted by salespeople offering an immediate lump sum in exchange for the rights to some or all of the payments the person would otherwise receive in future. Typically, recipients of a pension or structured settlement will sign over the rights to some or all of their monthly payments to a factoring company in return for a lump-sum amount, which will almost always be significantly lower than the present value of that future income stream." The Short Sellers Are Getting Destroyed (Bespoke Investment Group) The most shorted stocks are leading the current market rally. Forget The BRICS, Make Way For The MIPS (Guggenheim Partners) While growth is slowing in the BRICS, Scott Minerd at Guggenheim Partners writes that there is room for "exponential growth in other emerging markets." And he argues that Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Singapore (MIPS) are very attractive.¬† "Southeastern Asian countries including Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Singapore (the MIPS) could enjoy stronger growth over the next decade, owing to improved fundamentals and positive demographic trends. Since the end of the global financial crisis, equity markets in the MIPS have substantially outperformed the BRICs." We Will See High Excess Returns On The S&amp;P 500 For The Next Five Years¬†(Business Insider) New York Fed economists Fernando Duarte and Carlo Rosa say that going by the equity risk premium (ERP) stocks are at their cheapest¬† level in 50 years.¬† "To calculate the ERP in the chart above, Duarte and Rosa collected "twenty-nine of the most popular and widely used models" for forecasting stock returns and incorporated the average expected return into the ERP calculation. "We surveyed banks, we combed the academic literature, we asked economists at central banks," they write. "It turns out that most of their models predict that we will enjoy historically high excess returns for the S&amp;P 500 for the next five years."
via Bowden PropertiesClosely-followed billionaire hedge fund manager John Paulson has put his gorgeous Aspen ranch on the market for $29.9 million, Aspen Business Journal reported¬†citing a listing.¬†[via Curbed] Paulson, who famously bet against the subprime housing market in 2007, purchased "Aspen Lakes Ranch"¬†for $24.5 million back in 2010. Last summer, he snapped up Hala Ranch in Aspen from¬†Saudi Prince Bandar bin Sultan for $49 million. ¬†It was listed for $135 million. Paulson's Aspen Lake Ranch features a¬†13,068 square-foot home features 7 bedrooms and 10 bathrooms (3 half baths). ¬†The home sits on two lakes stocked with trout and surrounded with pristine mountain views.¬† The home was Aspen-based developer Bob Bowden, who has photos listed on his site.
Exchange-Traded Funds or ETFs have become a major force in the global financial system since their introduction in 1993. Now, trading of ETFs make up about 30% of daily trading in the US on a notional basis.¬† The products have become so popular because of the way they enable an investor to take an interest in a large variety of companies, industries, or commodities. We spoke with Laura Morrison, a senior vice president of Global Index and Exchange Traded Products at¬†NYSE-Euronext, where about 93% of all ETFs are traded, to find out exactly what an ETF is and why it has gained such popularity.¬† Produced by Business Insider Video
REUTERS/Jason LeeThe markets took a bit of breather today. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,082, -22.5 pts, -0.1%S&amp;P 500: 1,626, -6.0 pts, -0.3%NASDAQ: 3,409, -4.1 pts, -0.1% And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.

Gold is trading down 1.1% at levels around $1457, off from levels around $1470 earlier this afternoon. The culprit seems to be a strengthening U.S. dollar, which earlier caused the yen to fall through the key ¬•100 level against the dollar for the first time since April 2009, and sent the euro tumbling against the dollar as well. Meanwhile, stocks are selling off. Seabreeze Partners fund manager Doug Kass is tweeting "vague rumors" that WSJ reporter Jon Hilsenrath ‚Äì nicknamed "Fedwire" for his association with the Federal Reserve ‚Äì is working on an article about Federal Reserve tapering. However, it's unclear whether Doug Kass tweets about rumored Hilsenrath articles are really enough to move markets these days. Thinkorswim
¬† ¬† Marc and Greg Sherry are the brothers behind Old Homestead, one of NYC's most beloved steakhouses. The restaurant is known for being one of the city's oldest, having started out as The Tidewater Trading Post in 1868. It's also known for having the most expensive cut of meat in town, a $350 piece of Wagyu beef from Kobe, Japan. "We wanted to find a steak that took it to the next level," said Marc. "We flew to Japan, tasted it, and absolutely flipped." That was 1991. To get that amazing steak to the States, Marc and Greg had to work with the Japanese and American governments to ensure that the meat was up to U.S. health code. After that, the Wagyu sold itself. Produced by Daniel Goodman

Google FinanceAfter spending much of the day modestly in the red, stocks are showing a little bit of volatility. An early afternoon rally is being followed by a late afternoon sell-off. Just after 2:00 PM ET, the yen finally crossed the ¬•100 yen per dollar level. This is yet another sign that Japan's extraordinary efforts to weaken their currency is working. However, this also means that the dollar is strengthening relative to the yen.¬† This may be a source of consternation for traders who are concerned about American exports becoming more expensive to Japanese consumers. According to Doug Kass, there's a rumor circulating that the Wall Street Journal's Jon "Fedwire" Hilsenrath may soon be publishing a story about the Fed tightening monetary policy. Hilsenrath has a reputation for being close with the Federal Reserve, so his reports are often market movers.
Instead of eating lunch at their desks, workers are going clubbing for an hour at daytime dance parties that are springing up in New York City and around the world. The trend first started in Sweden with Lunch Beat, dreamed up by Molly Range, Forbes reported last year. Range had envisioned an event reminiscent of "Fight Club" where white collar workers could go crazy in the middle of the day.¬†‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt¬†talk about your job at lunch beat,‚Äù she told Forbes. ‚ÄúIf it‚Äôs your first dance at lunch beat, you have to dance.‚Äù Unlike "Fight Club," though, everyone talks about Lunch Beat. The not-for-profit, $15 lunch dance parties have expanded to cities like Boston, Montreal, NYC, Seattle, and Vienna. Culture website Flavorpill also throws a lunch party in New York City. Called "Lunch Break," and it has been growing in popularity since last summer, according to The New York Times. The Flavorpill events take place on Fridays from 1-2 PM, and attendees get a drink ticket for a free cocktail of vodka and fruit punch, as well as a paper bag lunch with a peanut butter and jelly sandwich and an apple when they leave. The NYT's Sheila Marikar attended a Lunch Break event in April, and wrote that the 9-to-5 workers danced to DJ-spun hip hop and electronic music as if it were 2 a.m.¬† It might as well be. Most of the NYC mid-day parties take place at popular nightclubs, such as Marquee and The Standard's Le Bain. There's usually a live DJ, glow sticks, and wayfarers for guests to wear during the hour-long dance parities. The only real differences are that no one's drunk, everyone's wearing their work clothes, and you will be back at your desk in an hour. See Flavorpill's video from their party at Le Bain below. 
Fox Business Network's senior correspondent Charlie Gasparino is getting some dirt on the Bill Ackman versus Dan Loeb battle over Herbalife at the SALT conference in Las Vegas. ¬† ‚Äî Charles Gasparino (@CGasparino) May 9, 2013 Apparently Loeb didn't name Ackman specifically, but we can all figure out who he was talking about. ¬†Also, Loeb's panel at SALT was reportedly off the record. ¬† ¬† Not long after Ackman publicly announced his short, Loeb, who runs Third Point LLC, revealed a big stake in the company. He called Ackman's claims "preposterous." According to Gasparino's source, Loeb is out of the stock now.¬† Shares of Herbalife are currently trading above $45. That's well above the pre-Ackman short levels.¬† Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman's short position was revealed, the stock has climbed more than 2.7%.¬† The stock nose-dived on Ackman's short announcement, but has since rallied back above those pre-short levels.¬†
The early leg of the housing recovery has been credited to declining shadow inventory and strong demand from institutional investors. However, developing trends in mortgage applications suggest that the average joe homebuyer is playing a bigger role. Mortgage applications in April were up 4.6% month-over-month, rising in seven of the past eight months. In fact, "over the past year applications for home purchase have risen by 11.5% to stand at a three-year high," writes Paul Diggle Capital Economics. Though it isn't certain just how many of these are being approved, Diggle argues that it would be "reasonable to assume that more would-be borrowers are passing banks' credit checks.Gluskin Sheff The latest Fed Senior Loan Officer Survey (SLOS) showed that demand for mortgage lending is increasing as well. All of this suggests that "mortgage-dependent homebuyers are starting to play a bigger role in the recovery," says Diggle. David Rosenberg at Gluskin Sheff writes that the "debt deleveraging cycle is now an old paradigm." He also points out that declining mortgage rates are leaving people with more cash.¬† "Mortgage refinancing activity soared 8.3% last week, after a 2.8% bulge the week before, and the YoY trend here is an eye-popping 40%! The average loan size is now $227,000, versus $216,000 a year ago." But mortgage delinquencies driven by subprime and adjustable-rate borrowers are also on the rise. In Q1, mortgage delinquencies climbed to 7.25%, from 7.09% the previous quarter. Diggle does however believe that the slowly improving labor market could see the delinquency rate start to ease soon.
APThe U.S. dollar just blew through the •100 level, meaning one Japanese yen is now worth less than a penny. That's a key psychological level for what has become the most consensus currency trade in the world. The dollar hasn't traded north of •100 since April 14, 2009. A strong yen in recent years has kept the economy in a prolonged struggle with deflation (falling consumer prices). However, the new Japanese government that was established in late 2012 has brought forceful change to monetary and fiscal policies in order to weaken the currency in hopes that a lower yen will help the country lift itself out of a deflationary state. The policies have been dubbed "Abenomics," named for new Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Here's a quick overview of the new policies: That's a brief summary of the three-pronged approach Japan is taking to fight deflation, which is causing hedge funds to come out in size with their bets against the yen, sending the currency tumbling. Click here for a more in-depth guide to Abenomics &gt;
APRepublicans in the House of Representatives passed a debt prioritization bill on Thursday that one leading Democrat called one of the worst ideas that has ever been brought for consideration in the House. The bill, which passed the House by a 221-207 vote, has already earned House Speaker John Boehner a fair amount of political criticism.¬† The bill would prioritize the nation's payments once the debt ceiling is reached. It would direct the U.S. Treasury to pay bondholders to avoid immediate default.¬† The idea, according to Republicans, is to make sure that the U.S. would keep paying certain obligations in case President Barack Obama and Congress cannot agree to lift the debt limit later this year. Democrats have said that the strategy would force the U.S. to pay China before its own troops, something that Boehner acknowledged in a recent interview with Bloomberg TV.¬† Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), the ranking member of the House Budget Committee, said the bill is one of the worst he's ever seen in the U.S. House of Representatives.¬† "I strongly oppose this bill, which, as our colleagues have said, says we should pay the government of China before we pay our troops, before we pay our veterans, before we pay other bills here in the United States," Van Hollen said on the House floor before the vote.¬†"Of all the bad ideas that have come to the floor of this House, this one is one of the worst." "It‚Äôs a reckless, irresponsible proposal that says the United States of America is not going to pay all the bills that are due and owing. That will have a terrible impact on our creditworthiness. It will undermine the full faith and credit of the United States. And it would wreak havoc in the economy." The bill has virtually no chance of becoming law. The Democratic-controlled Senate is not expected to take up the legislation, and¬†President Barack Obama has threatened to veto it.¬† Still, it paints an early picture of what could be an ugly confrontation over the need to raise the nation's debt limit ‚Äî which will likely be necessary by September or October.  Republican leaders found a solution in January that appealed to both their conservative base and enough Democrats, which tied raising the debt ceiling to both chambers of Congress passing a budget. So far in this round, however, Republicans have not been able to produce a similar bill or plan, which could leave summer negotiations a bit stickier. "The message of the bill is terrible and no one takes it seriously as a piece of legislation, since it's a nonstarter in the Senate and the President would veto it in any event," one senior Democratic Senate aide told Business Insider on Wednesday. "Doing nothing would probably be smarter for them than doing this bill."
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderBrian Kinsella, former U.S. Army captain and CEO of Stop Soldier SuicideHundreds of people from the Wall Street community gathered with military veterans and active duty service members last night on board the Intrepid on the Hudson River for a fundraiser to help stop soldier suicide. The "A Night For Life" fundraiser benefitted Stop Soldier Suicide‚Äîa civilian not-for-profit organization dedicated to preventing soldier suicide by bringing¬†free mental health care to U.S. service members and veterans and raising awareness about soldier suicide. Click to see photos from the event &gt; Stop Soldier Suicide was co-founded by Brian Kinsella,¬†a former U.S. Army captain who will be joining Goldman Sachs. ¬†He previously worked as an energy sector specialist at BNP Paribas. ¬†¬† Every day, one active duty soldier and 22 veterans take their own lives. It's a growing epidemic and Kinsella believes that it's unacceptable. "And in the active Army, the primary cause of death is not vehicular accidents or combat- it is suicide. In fact, more soldiers on active duty died by their own hand in 2012, than died in combat‚Ä¶Unacceptable," he said in a speech last night.¬† The event was hosted by Derek Wallis, who previously worked at Soros Fund Management and now is the head trader at Marlowe LP. Wallis has been hosting these events on the Intrepid to benefit military veteran related non-profits for the last few years. ¬†Sponsors of the event included, Knight Capital, Liquidnet and Brean. ¬† With tickets costing $150 and all proceeds going to the cause, guests were able to imbibe on cocktails from a four-hour long open bar, listen to music, participate in both live and silent auctions and dance the night away.¬† It's estimated that more than 1,500 people were in attendance last night. ¬†You can do the math, but it probably raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for a very important cause.¬† In case you missed it, we've included some highlights in the slides that follow.¬†
The U.S. dollar just hit the key •100 psychological level against the Japanese yen! The currency pair hasn't traded north of •100 since April 14, 2009. The chart below shows the big downward move the yen has made against the dollar today. And it's still going lower. The dollar is up 1.6% today against the yen, currently trading just off its highs at •100.55. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge The next chart is a zoomed-out look at the currency pair's performance since May 2012. It really started to take off in November when it became increasingly clear that a new Japanese government would be implementing some major economic policy changes in short order. Shorting the yen has become the biggest consensus currency trade on the planet as investors bet that new Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his recently-appointed Bank of Japan Governor, Haruhiko Kuroda, are serious about new economic policies that will place continued downward pressure on the yen. We already saw the currency pair take two shots at •100 in the last month. It looks like third time was a charm, in this case. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg Credit Suisse strategists seem to be the first out of the gate with a reaction to the dollar's breach of •100, recommending a new target at •102.30.
Dan FrommerEvery earnings season, companies share the details of their financial performance.† Additionally, many managers will reveal what they are seeing and what they are expecting for the economy. The view out of Q1 2013?† Things have turned a corner, but it's still slow going.† For instance, China is slowing down, but not so much that it will disrupt markets. North America is looking great, especially in Mexico. Among regions, it's really just the European Union that's really struggling ó but even there, we may have bottomed out. Consumer sentiment remains solid, even in the face of the sequester. And at least one company believes we'd be able to weather a pullback in dovish monetary policy. Some companies are seeing scattered softness. But overall, the snapshots indicate strength.
This extraordinary stock market is driven by characteristics that defy conventional valuation techniques. I receive emails from people who tell me that the market is overextended, overvalued, and trading way above its 50- or 200-day moving average. If you look at the metrics, the market is all of those things. I receive other emails that talk about the valuation of the market. Is it reasonably ‚Äúfair?‚Äù If you look at earnings expectations and the price of stocks this year and compare them to a metric, you would say the market is reasonably priced. The math goes something like this. The S&amp;P 500 Index will earn an estimated $105-$110 for 2013. That puts it at a multiple of about 15 times earnings. Those earnings are being reported by companies that have minimal distortions due to inflation or accounting mechanisms. Thus the earnings are of a higher quality in terms of reporting than they have been in the past. They do not reflect the bubble of the 2006 and 2007 financials. And they are more representative of the diversity of American companies. Our metric would say the market is reasonably priced. Not a great market, but certainly not excessive. The next metric ties the relationship between stocks and interest rates. We use a number of vehicles to make this comparison. I like the calculation of the equity risk premium that says how much you get paid for owning stocks versus riskless debt instruments. If you compute an equity risk premium against an interest rate next to zero, the valuation of stocks could be infinite. Anything compared to near-zero has a huge bulge in its multiplier. If you compare stock valuations against the 10-year riskless Treasury note, the equity risk premium is still very high by any historical measure. Why? Because the Treasury interest rate is so low. If you try to compare the equity risk premium against what you believe to be the normalized 10-year Treasury interest rate, you still get a fairly reasonable equity risk premium. The math is straightforward. Take the earnings and the earnings yield of the S&amp;P at about 7 percent. Normalize the yield on interest rates that you expect to occur 2-5 years from now. Let‚Äôs say those rates are in a range of 3-4 percent rather than the current range of 0-2 percent. Using this new math, you would achieve an equity risk premium 4-5 years from now of approximately 3-4 percent. Thus you would conclude that stocks will then be reasonably priced. Next metric. What will the earnings be for the S&amp;P if you use this equity risk premium metric that we just described? Answer: somewhere around $135-$140, maybe $150, depending on the robustness of the economy. In which case, these stocks are currently cheap. Let‚Äôs sum this up. We are going to have very low interest rates for the next couple of years, maybe longer. We are going to see gradual recovery, maybe more robust over time, but certainly not a screaming rebound. Under those circumstances, the likelihood is that stocks will go higher, maybe much higher. Our targets for US stocks at the end of this decade are about $2200 on the low end of the S&amp;P 500 Index to about $2500 on the high end. Those stocks will be earning $140-$150 annually, in an environment of low interest rates and inflation. Note: interest rates do not have to be near zero; they could be 3-4 percent. The mortgage interest rate in the US might increase by 100 or 150 basis points. If the unemployment rate and overall employment situation in the US have healed to some extent by decade's end, then all of these numbers are perfectly reasonable. We do not know what the stock market is going to do. Nobody does. We do not know whether the world is going to come to an end, or is going to be chugging full steam ahead for the next 15 years. Nobody does. What we do know is that when you line up all of the metrics that you can use to value stock markets, most of them will tell you that stocks are fairly priced and strategically cheap if you have a longer-term view.
A new study suggests PTSD following the 2008 market crash may have induced money mangers to abandon "buy and hold" strategies.¬† In "Financial Trauma: Why the Abandonment of Buy-¬≠‚Äêand-¬≠‚ÄêHold in Favor of Tactical Asset Management May be a Symptom of Posttraumatic Stress" published in something called The Journal of Financial Therapy, authors Bradley Klontz and Sonya Britt report 93% of respondents experienced medium or high levels of PTSD symptoms.  The study was¬†first¬†spotted by Marketwatch.¬† Here's how the authors define PTSD: (a) re-¬≠‚Äêexperiencing a traumatic event through intrusive thoughts or distressing dreams; (b) avoidance of stimuli associated with the traumatic experience, including efforts to avoid thoughts, reminders of the event, feelings of detachment, or symptoms of anxiety, including irritability, concentration problems, or sleep disturbance. Last year, 63% of money managers said they preferred active to passive portfolio management.¬† In 2005, just 24% believed this.¬† The authors say there's probably a link to the shellshock: It is possible that the large-¬≠‚Äê scale move away from buy-¬≠‚Äêand-¬≠‚Äêhold strategies by many financial planners may be a residual symptom of posttraumatic stress. When tactical moves are based on inaccurate predictions, they may ultimately put cli strong emotional financial experiences can lead to rigid, extreme, and often inaccurate beliefs about money (Klontz &amp; Klontz, 2009). And check out this table showing how worldviews have changed: Journal of Financial Therapy Nearly half of all respondents said Lehman had caused them to question how they help people. Intense.
REUTERS / Eduardo MunozJeffrey GundlachJeff Gundlach, the head of DoubleLine Funds, caused a stir last year when he announced he was shorting Apple and that he saw the stock tumbling to $425. Well, that prediction came true, and Gundlach further solidified his reputation as an investment god. Today, Gundlach spoke with CNBC's Scott Wapner from the SALT Conference in Las Vegas. Gundlach told Wapner that he had closed his short position. "Apple isn't expensive at all," said Gundlach referring to the stock's recent market price. He was then asked if that meant he would buy the stock. "I'm not positive or negative," Gundlach responded.† "I have moved on." But given six month time horizon, Gundlach said he'd rather own Apple than short it.
The woman who gave Chicago Bulls player Joakim Noah an epic middle finger after he was ejected last night is Filomena Tobias, the widow of hedge funder Seth Tobias, according to the Sun-Sentinel. Here's the photo from USA Today, which has been everywhere today: NSFW but you HAVE to see this photo from Noah's ejection tonight. twitter.com/HPbasketball/s‚Ä¶ But police officially cleared her in February 2008. She was never accused of or charged for a crime by the police. The death was the subject of an insane 2008 New York Magazine profile by Stephen Rodrick¬†that involves cocaine, male prostitutes, and a "300-pound gay con man and Internet psychic with a long criminal history named Billy Ash who claims to have been the couple‚Äôs personal assistant and may well have fabricated all or part of his claims regarding Seth and Phyllis because he‚Äôs a proven liar and self-serving attention seeker." Her relationship with Seth was "insane," according to Rodrick, filled with frequent fighting and coming close to divorce on multiple occasions. At one point his brother even told him, "That woman is going to kill you or bankrupt you." During their marriage, Phyllis had consulted Internet psychic Billy Ash to the tune of thousands of dollars a year, Rodrick reported. After Seth died, Ash called his brother and told him that "Phyllis had crushed Ambien tablets into a pasta sauce" on the night of his death. Police flew to San Diego to take an official statement from Ash, but were "not too impressed with his story." Seth's brothers later used Ash's story as the basis for a civil suit to block Phyllis from inheriting Seth's entire $25 million fortune.  Rodrick found Ash to be completely unreliable, and said that story ‚Äî which not only involved drugging via pasta sauce but also the promise of sex with a gay stripper named "Tiger" ‚Äî lacked any tangible evidence. The civil suit was settled in the summer of 2008, with Phyllis reportedly getting "the balance of the estate" and the $3.3 million home, and the brothers taking control of Tobias Brothers Inc. It's unclear who Tobias was sitting with at the Heat came, but her daughter told the Sun-Sentinel that they have season tickets.
AP ImagesDES MOINES, Iowa (AP) ‚Äî Iowa's largest energy company announced plans Wednesday to spend $1.9 billion to install hundreds of wind turbines by the end of 2015, marking what the governor described as the largest economic development project in the state's history. Officials with Des Moines-based MidAmerican Energy made the announcement at a Statehouse news conference with Gov. Terry Branstad, who noted that wind energy has been a selling point for high-tech firms looking to invest in Iowa. MidAmerican's parent company is Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway. "Wind energy is an exploding field and we're excited about it," Branstad said. "As wind energy grows, so does the Iowa economy." The company wants to build 656 turbines, though the locations have yet to be chosen. Customers won't see new rate increases because federal tax credits are expected to offset the project's cost over the next 30 years, company spokesman Tim Grabinski said. When completed, the new turbines will have the capacity to generate as much as 1,050 megawatts of wind power ‚Äî which MidAmerican President William Fehrman said would represent nearly 40 percent of energy used by customers. He added that the utility's Iowa customers would eventually see a slight decrease in their bills as a result of the project. Fehrman said construction would start before the end of the year to ensure that the project qualifies for a federal tax credit for wind production. The credit, first enacted in 1992, was extended by Congress earlier this year. "This is all about our customers. By doing this, we're not only setting up our customers for the long term to have a strong supply of renewable energy, but we're able to do it in a very competitive manner," Fehrman said. No state tax credits or incentives will be offered for the effort, Branstad said. Officials said the project would create about 460 construction jobs and 48 permanent jobs. Fehrman said MidAmerican would prefer Iowa construction firms, but no contractors have been selected yet. MidAmerican is Iowa's largest energy company, bringing electricity to 734,000 customers and natural gas to 714,000 customers in Iowa, Illinois, Nebraska and South Dakota. MidAmerican began building wind turbines in 2004, and it currently has 1,267 wind turbines in Iowa. Iowa leads the nation in wind energy production, getting 24.5 percent of its electricity from wind power in 2012, according to the American Wind Energy Association's Annual Market Report for 2012. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
I have a quote or two in this MarketWatch piece about "celebrity hedge fund managers" - I think the criticism of John Paulson has been way too harsh and totally relentless. People forget that a) there's a human being beneath the "hedge fund titan" veneer and b) the guy is a real investor and real investors stumble, all of them. All of us. But when you stumble with tens of billions in assets under management, of course the glare will be brighter and the schadenfreude factor will be upped - but when is enough enough? Here's what I had to say in JP's defense: ‚ÄúThis is no different than Kardashians, Hilton Sisters, Lohan ‚Äî none of them are working actresses, models or performers of any kind with any body of work people are interested in ‚Äî but people have been conditioned to click their names and prick up their ears when their exploits are being discussed,‚Äù says Brown. ‚ÄúThe shame of it is that Paulson is a real investor underneath all the sensationalism. He‚Äôs been around for decades and has had solid success, despite the boom/bust cycle he‚Äôs now enduring.‚Äù ‚ÄúAnd so now, as is always the case, a great investor like Paulson is burdened by the fact that he took in his maximum AUM right after his best year ever. And so the media spins it as he‚Äôs a money-loser. It‚Äôs pretty unfair from that standpoint." Many great investors take in a huge amount of money right after a major win streak - in hedge funds and in mutual funds too (see: Berkowitz, Miller). There is plenty of blame to go around for when the magic wears off. The investors who are flinging themselves at these "hot hands" need a 101 lesson in Mean Reversion - not all the blame belongs to the manager who is simply doing his best. Source: What John Paulson and the Kardashians have in common (MarketWatch)
The chart below, courtesy of Bespoke Investment Group, shows how the most-shorted stocks have actually been the ones leading the market rally in the past few weeks. Bespoke Investment Group What's going on here? Bespoke points out that Tesla and Green Mountain Coffee Roasters alone ‚Äì two heavily shorted stocks ‚Äì are both up over 20% today on company-specific news. There's also a bigger trend unfolding as the rally that began in November continues to extend itself further and further. While dividend-paying, defensive types of stocks have led most of the rally, investors seem to be rotating out of that group and into riskier ‚Äì and perhaps more heavily shorted ‚Äì names. Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson explained in a note to clients yesterday (emphasis added): We‚Äôve noticed a perhaps interesting trend emerging between companies that consistently enhance their dividends and the benchmark S&amp;P 500 index. Our chart of the day shows that as the stock market powers to new highs, Aristocratic dividend paying names are starting to underperform and perhaps indicating that equity buyers have become less concerned with what they are buying. If this erosion of the excess return often provided by consistent dividend payers is maintained during the month of May, it will be the first time since 2009 when the benchmark index rose in that month and exceeded the performance of the Aristocrats club. We should note too that that May 2009 was shortly after the bear market low when investors bought anything that had a pulse. Are we witnessing the same thing today after the Fed has crushed the yield curve? Looks like we're seeing a new leg of the market rally now.
Scratch that, it's a debate going on in all media. In terms of business news, though, no network has been more criticized than CNBC. The channel was mentioned over and over again in Heleine Olen's recent book "Pound Foolish: Exposing the Dark Side of the Personal Finance Industry," and even before that, USA Today, Jon Stewart and more accused the network of working investors into a frenzy for ratings. Well now it's The Onion's turn. Check out this headline ó'Everyone Who Started Watching 'Mad Money' In 2005 Now Billionaires'. An excerpt (from The Onion): [Host] Jim Cramer turned out to be 100 percent accurate with every stock he said to buy, sell, or hold; I started out by investing $600, and now I have a net worth of $4.1 billion,î said former dishwasher Paul Welling from the plush 100-seat TV room aboard his custom luxury yacht. ìAll I had to do was follow Jimís investment instructions and then sit back as the millions upon millions rolled in every day for the past eight years. And actually, I myself watched no more than three times weekly, and today I own a media conglomerate.î
Tesla The only successful new American car company in more than half a century, Tesla, reported its first quarterly profit yesterday. It wasn't a big profit. But the fact that it was any sort of profit blew away investors, who instantly bid the company's stock up 25%, to a new high near $70. Helping fuel this gigantic move was presumably collective panic on the part of the many investors who are short Tesla's stock, betting that the electric car company will falter and its stock will tank. When short-sellers are forced to "cover" their bets on unexpected good news, their panic buying often creates demand that drives stock prices through the roof. And Tesla's stock presumably benefitted from that. But Tesla has defied critics and short-sellers from the beginning. When entrepreneur Elon Musk and others founded the company a decade ago, most people assumed that Tesla's ride would be short-lived. After all, the fate of new American car companies in the last half century has been so predictable that very few entrepreneurs even had the guts to create them. Reuters/Rebecca CookElon Musk.But Tesla's first car, a convertible called the "Roadster," was popular with the handful of people who could afford to own $100,000+ electric two-seater sports cars with a limited range. And the company's second car, a sedan called the "Model S," has gotten some excellent reviews and has sold reasonably well. Remarkably, Consumer Reports just concluded that the Model S is¬†the best car it has ever tested. Tesla sold 5,000 of its sedans last quarter. Although that's a small number relative to the 2+ million cars sold by General Motors in the same period, it's impressive considering the car's high price and the limitations of an all-electric vehicle. And it has helped to stoke excitement that Tesla will be able to solve the problem that has defeated other electric car manufacturers for decades: figuring out how to make an electric car with a long-enough range that is affordable for mass-market car buyers.¬† Most mass-market electric cars have been hobbled by high prices and low ranges. And the winning propulsion system for electric cars over the past decade has been the "hybrid" drive ‚Äî cars that can be powered by both gas and the battery. This problem has led me and others to conclude that the world is just not ready for all-electric cars, which aren't practical for many people. But those rich enough to buy Teslas are quite vocal about how much they love them.¬† What Tesla has accomplished over the past decade is extraordinary. It remains to be seen whether the company can now "cross the chasm" from wealthy buyers who can afford to buy the Model S or Roadster as a second or third (or fourth car) and don't mind their limitations, to mass-market drivers who can rely on electric power for their primary, affordable family car. But so far, anyway, Tesla is a great American success story, and everyone should be rooting for it.
This is high pressure. Bloomberg editor Dan Moss flew from his DC office to Prague to yell at two editors for making a mistake, says the NY Post. The Prague based editors, Jeffery Donovan and Alan Crosby had posted a headline about the Czech Central Bank one minute before an embargo on their story was lifted. From the NY Post: We‚Äôre told Moss ‚Äúscreeched and screamed through the DC newsroom and said he was going to Prague to fire the editors.‚Äù He immediately got on a plane, reprimanded the journos and flew home. Donovan and Crosby were fired. This seems harsh, but it's a huge deal. Bloomberg's ability to give their clients instant access to data depends on Bloomberg having instant access to data, and that depends on Bloomberg being a totally trusted holder of said data if they have it before it comes out.
Bloomberg TelevisionLast Friday's surprisingly strong April jobs report and today's unexpected drop in initial unemployment claims were welcome developments in the beleaguered U.S. labor market. However, the underlying details of the labor market continue to be troubling. Last week, veteran economist David Rosenberg gave a lengthy 59-slide† presentation on the Federal Reserve's failed efforts to get the economy on track. Much of the presentation focused on the dynamics of the U.S. workforce. Rosenberg argued that despite the high unemployment rates, there's actually a shortage of qualified labor, which is resulting in labor hoarding.† Furthermore, there are signs that this is forcing wages to go up, which mean trouble for corporate profit margins.† This is ultimately bearish for stocks.
www.flickr.comPlease see my previous post, on Insurance as Risk Transfer Only Good uses of insurance Optional uses of insurance If you find yourself the primary or sole caregiver of minor children, and you have limited savings, the next 2 types of risk transfer are mandatory.¬† Otherwise they‚Äôre optional. Bad uses of Insurance 6. Warranties ‚Äì I‚Äôm indifferent to car warranties, as I don‚Äôt know enough about them.¬† But electronics warranties are a complete waste of your money.¬† It‚Äôs extra insurance you do not need, on an ‚Äòasset‚Äô which depreciates in value faster than you can count backwards from 100. ¬†The warranty company depends on you neglecting to exchange your electronic device, because in 2 years there‚Äôs something better out there anyway. ¬†As I wrote earlier, warranties are the ultimate ‚Äúneglect-based‚Äù business, along with life insurance policies. 7. Car Rental Insurance ‚Äì Chances are you‚Äôre already double-covered by your own automobile insurance, as well as insurance from your credit card. Have you noticed the rental agencies really like to push three difference types of insurance on you?¬† Unless you‚Äôve got a very special situation, you don‚Äôt need that stuff. ‚ÄúCan I at least put you down for bumper to bumper coverage?‚Äù¬† Stop. Bugging. Me. 6. Variable Annuity ‚Äì Monstrosity.¬† The chimera that neither breathes fire nor flies straight.¬† High cost, low return, illiquid.¬†¬† Perfect! ¬† Here‚Äôs a quick quiz: Question: Why does the Wall Street Journal always carry headlines such as: ‚ÄúAre variable annuities a good idea or just too costly?‚Äù instead of more honest headlines like ‚ÄúAre you a moron who likes to be separated from your money?¬† Try variable annuities!‚Äù? [1] Answer: An awful lot of insurance company advertisers vie for eyeballs right next to that variable annuity article. ¬† Please see related posts Insurance, Part I ‚Äì Risk Transfer Only and Insurance Part III ‚Äì Calculations of Life Insurance as an investment [1] The authors of these variable annuity articles seemingly know they‚Äôre terrible, but they also seem to know who pays the bills.¬† I feel badly for them, writing the articles must be torture.¬† Here‚Äôs a few recent samples from the Wall Street Journal this Spring: ‚ÄúCheaper Annuities With Benefits,‚Äù ‚ÄúNew Annuity Guarantees Raise Questions,‚Äù and ‚ÄúThey‚Äôre Changing Our Annuity!‚Äù
The Sohn Investment Conference is a serious affair. It attracts the brightest minds† and best ideas in the world of value investing for a great cause ó pediatric cancer research (check out their site here). But hey, the conference is still a day when people get to get out of the office and meet their peers, so there's got to be some fun. At least, we had a good time. So to give you a little taste of how everyone was kicking it at Sohn, here are a few of our favorite moments from the conference that have nothing to do with EBITDA or corporate governance. That about sums it up. If you were there and remember anything you'd like to share, leave it in the comments.
Asked whether he believed the Obama Administration would approve the last remaining section of the pipeline, which will transport crude oil from Alberta to the Gulf, Garland said, "No," according to Biz Journals. ‚ÄúI think even TransCanada has said they expect it to be delayed,‚Äù he added.¬† Indeed they did.¬† The most recent update from the State Department, which oversees the review process, also makes it clear we may be in for a long wait. On April 22, the comment period on the Draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement closed. After the comment period, the Department will make appropriate revisions and publish a Final SEIS. Next, the Department will seek the views of other agencies and then make a determination as to whether issuance of a Presidential Permit for the Keystone XL pipeline would serve the national interest. The national interest determination by the Department involves consideration of many factors, including energy security; environmental, cultural, and economic impacts; foreign policy; and compliance with relevant federal regulations. The Department intends to provide an additional opportunity for the public to comment during the National Interest Determination (NID) period that will begin with the release the Final SEIS. This additional public comment period will provide a further opportunity for the public to provide input on this proposed project. The Department will provide the details on the NID comment period at a later date. We've discussed why it may be unfair to keep TransCanada waiting ‚Äî not least because the U.S. section of the pipeline has already been approved and/or already exists.¬† But it looks like there's more at stake for the administration.
REUTERSRussell Wasendorf Sr.'s mugshot. He's wearing an "anti-suicide tunic."SAN FRANCISCO/CHICAGO (Reuters) - Russell Wasendorf Jr., whose father went to prison for stealing $215 million from clients of the futures brokerage they ran together for nearly 20 years, is starting over. The chief operating officer of Peregrine Financial Group, which collapsed in 2012 in an embezzlement scheme orchestrated by his father, has moved to Florida from the firm's home base of Cedar Falls, Iowa. He is out of the futures business entirely and has launched an e-commerce website. In his first interview since Peregrine Financial's demise, Wasendorf Jr. said he has rejected offers to consult on futures and currency trading, his area of focus at the firm. According to records from the National Futures Association, he withdrew the last of his futures industry registrations just last week. "I really want to just try to move on," Wasendorf Jr. told Reuters. "I don't have any real desire at this point to go back into that side of the business. I've been burnt awfully badly after spending 25 years of my life there." Last July, Peregrine Financial's founder and chief executive, Russell Wasendorf Sr., botched a suicide attempt at the firm's Cedar Falls headquarters. Before snaking a hose from the tailpipe of his car into the vehicle, he left a confession of his crimes along with a note begging his "wonderful son" for forgiveness. Wasendorf Sr. was arrested and later pleaded guilty to embezzling his clients' money, and the firm filed for bankruptcy. Wasendorf Jr. said he has not forgiven his father. "As far as I am concerned, he died that day," he said. Wasendorf Sr., 65, in February began serving what is expected to be a life sentence in a high-security federal prison in Terre Haute, Indiana. At the time, his pastor said he was in poor health. He has not responded to a letter from Reuters requesting an interview. Most of the firm's 24,000 customers have received back only about a third of the money they had in accounts at Peregrine Financial and are not expected to be made whole. The implosion shook investor confidence in the U.S. futures industry, already hurt by the failure of the larger MF Global less than a year earlier. Wasendorf Sr. used little more than a rented post office box, Photoshop and inkjet printers to fake bank statements and hide money from regulators for years, according to his confession and statements from federal investigators. He doctored the bank statements to show that accounts held more money than they actually did, while using clients' money to keep the company afloat and fund a lavish lifestyle. DENIES INVOLVEMENT IN SCAM U.S. prosecutors said at Wasendorf Sr.'s sentencing earlier this year that the government did not anticipate filing further criminal charges relating to Peregrine Financial. But his son is facing a civil lawsuit that says he is partly responsible for the firm's collapse. Wasendorf Jr., who turns 43 this month, also was president of the firm and oversaw day-to-day operations. In the interview, he denied any knowledge of or involvement in his father's scam. "There's obviously plenty of reasons why he would have never told me about this, because I'd have never forgiven it," he said, his voice cracking. That hasn't kept others from wondering. Dan Roth, who heads the National Futures Association, said last fall that the sheer volume of documents that needed to be doctored to keep up the fraud suggests the father had help. Contacted on Tuesday by Reuters, Roth said he stood by his comments and had nothing further to add. No suspected accomplice has yet surfaced. NEW VENTURE Wasendorf Jr. moved his family to Orlando, Florida, after the scandal and in April began an online service, Orange Tree Deals, aimed at giving entrepreneurs and neighbors a way to sell goods to one another, or even give them away for free. The site requires buyers and sellers to register to use the site, making it more transparent, in his view, than an anonymous marketplace like Craigslist, Wasendorf said. He hopes entrepreneurs eventually use the site as a virtual storefront, so he can charge a commission on their sales. On Wednesday, the site carried listings for products including a wine refrigerator, chandelier and penguin Halloween costume. Attain Capital Management, a trading firm that saw its business drop 80 percent and had to lay off employees after it lost money when Peregrine Financial failed, believes Wasendorf Jr. did not know about his father's crimes, according to a blog post on its website. "We truly wish him the best of luck," Attain said, referring to Wasendorf Jr.'s new venture. Chief Executive Jeff Malec declined to elaborate on the post. LAWSUIT SEEKS CLASS ACTION STATUS Thirteen former Peregrine Financial customers are suing Wasendorf Jr., his father, U.S. Bancorp and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co in federal court in Chicago. The lawsuit, which seeks status as a class action on behalf of all of Peregrine Financial's former clients, accuses the father of fraud; the son of helping him; and the banks, which held money for the firm, of facilitating the entire enterprise. "As a direct and proximate consequence of the conduct of Wasendorf and Wasendorf Jr.," customers of Peregrine Financial, or PFG, "have lost a significant portion of the money, securities, and property they paid and delivered to PFG," the complaint read. The banks are fighting the lawsuit and say they did nothing wrong. The son is fighting, too, but says he does not have the money to pay for a long legal battle, let alone to make up for clients' massive losses. He said he is on the verge of bankruptcy because of the cost of defending himself. Wasendorf said he felt betrayed by his father and did not plan to visit him in jail. "Maybe someday I'll forgive it, but not right now," Wasendorf Jr. said. "It caused way too much damage to my family, to myself." (Editing by Prudence Crowther) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
New York Fed economists†Fernando Duarte and Carlo Rosa are out with a new article on Liberty Street Economics titled, "Are Stocks Cheap? A Review of the Evidence." The answer: judging by the equity risk premium (ERP), stocks are about as cheap as they've ever been. The ERP is the excess return that stocks are expected to provide over the risk-free rate, and it's typically calculated as the expected future return of stocks ñ based on historical averages, or forecasting models, depending on whichever one is chosen for the calculation ñ minus the risk-free rate (typically the yield on a U.S. Treasury bond) over comparable time horizons. Liberty Street Economics To calculate the ERP in the chart above, Duarte and Rosa collected "twenty-nine of the most popular and widely used models" for forecasting stock returns and incorporated the average expected return into the ERP calculation. "We surveyed banks, we combed the academic literature, we asked economists at central banks," they write. "It turns out that most of their models predict that we will enjoy historically high excess returns for the S&amp;P†500 for the next five years." However, Duarte and Rosa also find that the high ERP is driven mostly by record low Treasury yields as opposed to expectations for high absolute returns in stocks. They also test the efficacy of the models used to forecast the ERP vis-a-vis just using the historical average return, and they find that most of the models are actually more accurate than the historical average, especially over longer time horizons. The economists conclude: At face value, this result means that the models are actually helpful in forecasting returns. However, we should keep in mind some of the limitations of†our analysis. First, we have not shown confidence intervals or error bars. In practice, those are quite large, so even if we could have earned extra returns by†using the models, it may have been solely due to luck. Second, we have selected models that have performed well in the past, so there is some selection bias. And†of course, past performance is no guarantee of future performance. Read the whole study at Liberty Street Economics &gt;
Hedge fund manager Phil Falcone's Harbinger Group said in a securities filing that he has reached a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission over two civil actions. (via DealBook) Last summer, the SEC charged†Falcone and his Harbinger Capital Partners with securities fraud.† The regulatory agency alleged that Falcone and his fund engaged in "illicit conduct that included misappropriation of client assets, market manipulation and betraying clients,"†the release said. According to the 10-Q filing, it looks like he didn't have to admit or deny the†SEC allegations. Falcone agreed to a two-year ban as an adviser and to pay an $18 million penalty, the filing states. †He gets to remain CEO and chairman of the board.† The settlement also has to be approved. † From the 10-Q:†(emphasis ours) On April 22, 2013, Harbinger Capital, Harbinger Capital Partners Offshore Manager, L.L.C., Harbinger Capital Partners Special Situations GP, L.L.C., and Mr. Falcone (collectively, the ìHCP Partiesî), advised the Company that they had reached an agreement in principle with the enforcement staff of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (ìSECî) regarding the settlement of all matters related to the two civil actions previously filed by the SEC against the HCP Parties in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.These civil actions were previously disclosed in our prior filings with the SEC. The settlement was made without the HCP Parties admitting or denying any of the SEC's allegations. The settlement is subject to approval by the Commissioners of the SEC and the court. There can be no assurance that the Commissioners or the court will approve the settlement on the terms described below. Under the settlement, Mr. Falcone may continue to own and control our Company and serve as its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the board. Our Company and our subsidiaries (including, among others, Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc., Fidelity &amp; Guaranty Life Holdings, Inc. Five Island Asset Management LLC (ìFive Islandî), Salus Capital Partners LLC (ìSalusî), Salus Capital Partners II LLC (ìSalus IIî, and together with Salus and Five Island, the ìSubsidiary Advisersî), EXCO/HGI GP, LLC or Zap.Com Corporation or any of their†respective subsidiaries) are not parties to the settlement and the duties and obligations described herein are the duties and obligations of the HCP Parties and not our Company or our subsidiaries.†As previously disclosed, none of the SEC's actions were brought against our Company or any of our subsidiaries and the subject matter of those actions did not include any conduct involving, by, or on behalf of our Company or any of our subsidiaries. Under the terms of the settlement, the HCP Parties, without admitting or denying any of the SEC's allegations, would consent to the entry of a final judgment that, subject to certain exceptions with respect to the Subsidiary Advisers and Harbinger Capital entities described below, bars and enjoins Mr. Falcone for a period of two years (after which Mr. Falcone may seek the consent of the SEC to have the bar and injunction lifted) from acting as or being an associated person of any ìbroker,î ìdealer,î ìinvestment adviser,î ìmunicipal securities dealer,î ìmunicipal adviser,î ìtransfer agent,î or ìnationally recognized statistical rating organization,î as those terms are defined in Section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 202 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (such specified entities, collectively, the ìSpecified Entitiesî). The settlement does not limit Mr. Falcone from owning or controlling our Company or from serving as an officer or director of our Company, including continuing in his role as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board. Our Company has three indirect subsidiaries, Five Island, Salus, and Salus II, which are ìinvestment advisersî as such term is defined in Section 202 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The settlement does not limit our Company's ability to own and control any of its subsidiaries (including the Subsidiary Advisers), nor does it limit our Company and our subsidiaries (including the Subsidiary Advisers) from pursuing their business strategies. However, during the period of the bar, Mr. Falcone may not, other than as a result of his ownership and control of Company, engage in any actions that would result in him being an associated person of the Subsidiary Advisers, including, but not limited to, directly or indirectly: (i) performing any management functions at the Subsidiary Advisers; or (ii) making any recommendations regarding the purchase or sale of securities by the Subsidiary Advisers. In addition, during the period of the bar, in light of Mr. Falcone's role as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board, the Company and its subsidiaries are limited in their ability to acquire other Specified Entities. During the period of the bar, Mr. Falcone may remain associated with Harbinger Capital and other Harbinger Capital entities, provided that, during such time, Mr. Falcone's association will be limited as set forth in the settlement. The HCP Parties must take all actions reasonably necessary to expeditiously satisfy all received redemption requests of investors in the Harbinger Capital funds, which may include the orderly disposition of Harbinger Capital fund assets. In addition, during the bar period, the HCP Parties and certain Harbinger Capital entities may not raise new capital or make capital calls from existing investors. The settlement requires the HCP Parties to pay disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties totaling approximately $18 million. In addition, for the duration of the bar, the activities of the HCP Parties at the Harbinger Capital funds, including those described in this paragraph, will be subject to the oversight of an independent monitor. At the time of the SEC charges,†Kevin Roose and Jessica Pressler at Daily Intel†asked Falcone about them he responded via email "Piece of cake" adding, "It's not like I'm having a heart transplant."†
Fred Wilson of Union Square Ventures just invested in a startup called "Coinbase," which facilitates Bitcoin transactions. This investment doesn't mean that Bitcoin is guaranteed to become a mainstream currency, but it's a small step in that direction. So it's time folks who just instinctively ridicule Bitcoin took a moment to understand it. Bitcoin is an electronic currency--a new form of money. It's also, possibly, the next great asset bubble. (Or investment, depending on how the story ends. Or both, depending on when you get in and get out.) Bitcoins are strings of numbers that can be electronically owned by and transferred among individuals and organizations. For now, the currency is primarily used for payments by fringe retailers or illegal transactions, but it is being accepted more and more widely (Coinbase was created to help that process). And organizations that exchange Bitcoins for standard currency are now being approved to operate as banks. The premise and promise of Bitcoin--the part that appeals to folks who don't happen to be gold bugs, conspiracy theorists, or cryptography geeks (obviously they all love it)--is that electronic currencies have several advantages over paper currencies and that the current plan is for only a finite number of Bitcoins to be created. This latter attribute is in direct contrast to standard government-issued currencies, which governments can always print more of. If the supply of Bitcoins remains finite, this should theoretically eliminate inflation, which is one of the biggest drawbacks of paper money. Why is inflation a problem for paper money? Because it destroys the value of paper money over time. Even a low rate of inflation can wallop the value of normal currencies over several decades. A dollar in 1900, for example, is only worth about $0.04 in today's currency. Paper money also has other problems, including: So Bitcoin is conceptually very interesting, especially since it is not issued by a government agency. (Here's a great presentation on what Bitcoin is and why some people are so excited about it.) What has suddenly grabbed the public's attention about Bitcoin, however, is the recent explosion in the value of the currency. Because the number of Bitcoins is limited, their value increases rapidly when more people want them. And when the value of something increases rapidly, even more people want them. So the initial price increases fuel future price increases which fuel more future price increases.. Of course, this dynamic has fueled the inflation of every asset bubble in history. So it behooves people to analyze the sustainability of such price increases carefully. When Bitcoin was launched in 2010, the currency initially had very little value. Quickly, however, the price of each "coin" soared above $25, making the initial Bitcoin believers rich. Then prices collapsed, with coins trading down to $5 again. And then Bitcoin prices began a slow and steady rise that has suddenly gone parabolic. At the beginning of March, Bitcoins could be exchanged for about $35. Then, over the course of 6 weeks, the value of Bitcoins soared above $250. Then they crashed again, dropping all the way to the $50s. Now they're changing hands at about $115.  This explosive price increase has many intelligent people crying "bubble!" And these intelligent people may well be right. But if there's one lesson that gets repeated again and again in bubbles, it's that prices can rise much higher and bubbles can last much longer than most observers think. (Internet stocks, for example, were first described as a "bubble" in 1995, a full five years before the peak. And the amount of money made in those next five years made everyone who was skeptical early on look and feel like a fool. House prices, meanwhile, were described as a "bubble" as early as 2002 and 2003. And it wasn't until 2007, many years later, that house prices finally peaked.) Driving prices in all bubbles, of course, is the possibility that the price action might not actually be a bubble. And that applies to Bitcoin, too. If Bitcoins become an accepted currency everywhere in the world, if governments don't intervene and make Bitcoin transactions illegal, and if the supply of Bitcoins remains finite (if the systems aren't hacked or the anonymous creators don't get greedy and decide to create many more), then Bitcoin prices could go much, much higher. After all, how much would you pay for a currency that could be used everywhere in the world and would never demolish your savings by losing value to inflation? You might pay a lot for that currency. And, as with any asset, it would be hard if not impossible to determine how much value was "too much"--because determining the value of any asset or means of exchange is always a subjective exercise. At the same time, though, there are many big risks that could bring the Bitcoin frenzy to a quick and brutal end. Governments, for example, might decide that Bitcoin undermines the value of their own legal currencies--and ban it. In the U.S., only Congress has the power to print money, and Congress might well decide that Bitcoin is money (which, it is). Or, Bitcoin's technology could be hacked, allowing Bitcoins to be stolen from their owners. Or someone could make counterfeit Bitcoins. Or someone could create a better Bitcoin--a new electronic currency that makes Bitcoin useless and irrelevant (Lots of folks are working on these currencies.) Or Bitcoin could never really gain mass-market acceptance. In short, there are lots of reasons why Bitcoin might not be the wonderful "store of value" that Bitcoin fanatics and investors say it is--and, instead, might just become the next tulip bulb or dotcom stock bubble. On the other hand... Bitcoin might fulfill its promise. And/or Bitcoin might make some speculators fantastic amounts of money in the hours, days, months, or years before its value crashes. So you can understand why not just monetary theorists and technology folks and speculators are excited about it. And that's why one very smart and successful investor, Fred Wilson, just invested in the Bitcoin ecosystem. SEE ALSO: Here Are 6 Reasons Why Bitcoin Prices Could Crash
Greenlight Capital's David Einhorn was the last speaker at the conference and presented his long thesis on Oil States International Inc. (OIS), the stock is up 3.2% today. That's great. It was a great presentation. But what really stuck out to us is that Einhorn took pains to give credit where credit was due. Barry Rosenstein's Jana Partners disclosed a 9% stake in the company a week before Einhorn's presentation, and Einhorn made it very clear that he knew it, and was not trying to rain on Jana's parade. Now, obviously Einhorn and everyone else at Greenlight had been working on their OIS thesis for a long time before the Sohn Conference. Maybe they hadn't pulled the trigger yet, or announced that they were bullish on the company, but who really knows whether Jana or Greenlight came up with the idea first? Doesn't matter. On the Street, appearances matter, so Einhorn made it very clear that he wasn't trying to steal an idea, that he respected Rosenstein's work and that Jana had beaten him to the public punch. He even admitted that the situation made Greenlight nervous saying, ‚ÄúSomeone in our office said, ‚ÄòPlease tell me Barry Rosenstein isn‚Äôt speaking at Ira Sohn.‚Äô‚Äù That's exactly the kind of transparency you need to have when your fund is in a situation where it looks even remotely like you might jumping on someone's gravy train. Einhorn even discussed part of Jana's thesis that he admitted would definitely add even more value to the company than he had considered. Well done.
Shares of Green Mountain Coffee Roasters are up nearly 17% in early-morning trading. The market is taking in the new five-year deal the company inked with Starbucks to serve the giant's coffee in its Keurig machines. Here's the chart: Yahoo The stock was long in the crosshairs of short sellers after David Einhorn called the company out for¬†insider trading, negative cash flows and expiring patents. But the company seems to have weathered the onslaught. Green Mountain's $0.93 also beat on non-GAAP EPS¬†estimates by $0.20 yesterday for the most recent quarter, and the company revised estimates upward.
Tesla's stock is up a whopping 25% today after the green automaker beat earnings expectations yesterday. Tesla reported its first ever quarterly profit. It announced earnings of $0.12 per share, beating expectations for $0.03 per share. Revenue jumped 83% from the last quarter to $562 million. People have been concerned about the cost of the vehicle, and it had received some poor reviews. Some, have argued that Tesla's margin was being driven by government subsidies that could disappear if the government changed its plan. But Elon Musk said gross margin doesn't assume zero emission vehicle (ZEV) credit revenue from the government. Consumer Reports gave Tesla's Model S a 99 out of 100, higher than any other car they've tested. The called it a 'truly remarkable car.' This chart from Marketwatch shows the stock rally since the earnings release: Marketwatch
High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan†was recognized as MarketWatch's forecaster of the year and he is also listed as a top U.S. economic forecaster by Bloomberg BRIEF. And in his latest daily note, he shared his favorite chart: the 3-month average change in payrolls excluding temporary and the inverse of the monthly average jobless claims. From O'Sullivan's latest note: In theory, net employment growth can weaken significantly without an uptrend in claims -- if the slowing is due entirely to reduced hiring rather than increased firing. But it never works like that in practice. Significant weakening in the trend in employment growth is invariably reflected by an uptrend in claims. That is the point of our all-time favorite chart, which lines up the level of claims with the rate of change in payrolls. O'Sullivan would probably agree that today's drop in claims is probably a good sign for employment. High Frequency Economics
quinn.anya via flickrFirst the checks bounced.¬† Now, the New York Times says some mortgage relief checks sent to distressed homeowners contain the wrong amounts. The blame appears to fall on Rust Consulting, the contractor hired by the feds to distribute the checks. From the Times: In recent days, according to officials briefed on the matter, Rust Consulting issued nearly 100,000 checks for less than the homeowners were owed. The mistake potentially cheated consumers out of millions of dollars they were owed under a deal reached between the government and the nation‚Äôs biggest banks. Federal regulators ordered Rust to fix its mistake. And in a statement, Rust said late Wednesday that it had ‚Äúcorrected the error and plans to mail supplemental checks to affected borrowers as soon as May 17.‚Äù It attributed the mistake to a ‚Äúclerical error.‚Äù Here's a brutal quote about the matter from one homeowner married to a veteran: ‚ÄúFirst we are wrongfully tossed out of our home while serving this country and then we get basically no money.‚Äù¬† The checks are part of a $3.6 billion settlement deal regulators struck with banks. ¬† The Times' story goes a lot more in depth into how heavily Rust is embedded into government services. Check out the full story here &gt;
APJoe DiMaggioStocks have shown incredible resilience during this historic rally. The S&amp;P 500 is sitting at all-time highs, yet it has been a very long time since we've seen a notable sell-off. Art Cashin, the veteran trader and UBS's man on the NYSE floor, doesn't think this can last for too much longer. "The S&amp;P has been up 56 of the 88 trading sessions so far," writes Cashin.† "That rate of success is not only extremely rare, it is, borderline, unprecedented.† Fifty years of experience suggests streaks ultimately end ñ just ask Joe DiMaggio.† For now, enjoy the ride; be wary of rumors; stay very nimble and have a great weekend."
The Department of Labor just released its latest report on weekly initial jobless claims, and it looks good. Claims unexpectedly fell to 323,000 from last week's revised reading of 327,000. This is the lowest level since January 2008. Economists were expecting claims to rise to 335,000 from a preliminary reading of 324,000. The 4-week moving average fell to 336,750 from 343,000 a week ago. The Department of Labor added that no states estimated their claims and there was nothing unusual in the data, so this is a clean number. "Today's jobless claims report is the most important release in what is a quiet week for U.S. data," says High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan. "While weekly readings can be erratic, the claims series remains a key momentum indicator for the labor market."
Slaven Vlasic/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.

After a poor Q4 12, the UK economy has shown greater resilience this year.† The economy expanded 0.3% in Q1, which while nothing to write home about, is better than the contraction some feared or even the 0.1% expansion the consensus forecast.† The favorable news carried into the start of Q2, with April's manufacturing PMI reaching a 3-month high and the service sector PMI rising to its best level since last August. † With these kind of numbers, while price pressures remain sticky,† BOE Governor King is unlikely to have won over converts his minority faction (which includes Miles and Fisher as well).† In fact, there is some risk that that faction experiences a defection or two. Mark Carney's ascension to the head of the BOE in July is awaited.† This coupled with the firmer data reinforces the idea that whatever window to resume gilt purchases may have existed now seems closed.† Even before assuming his responsibilities, Carney has been charged to report to the Chancellor in August about his stock idea of "forward guidance".†† The BOE's communication has been clear enough to convince the market that rates will not be raised before 2016 that is it not obvious what Carney's "forward guidance" can deliver.† In addition, there have been some criticism of King's management style, but there does not appear to be another major central bank in which the governor has been outvoted the way King has allowed.† NISER expects the UK economy to expand by 0.9% this year compared with a 0.4% contraction in the euro area.† It expects the UK economy to grow 1.5% in 2014, while it forecast a 0.9% expansion in the euro zone.† Taken together, it means that in 2012-14 period the UK economy would grow by about 2.8%, while the euro area economy would be flat.†† Growth differentials may be cited to help explain the UK disappointing trade performance.† However, form a larger perspective, it appears the UK is experiencing a gradual shift in its export markets.† A decade ago, the EU absorbed almost 2/3 of the UK's exports.† Last year it was down to 50%.†† In 2012, the UK's top five export markets† were the same as the previous three years:† the US, German, Netherlands, France and Ireland. † However, the shift is evident further down on the list.† China has moved from 9th to 7th place.† Russia has moved from 22 to 12th place.† The BRICs, which absorbed about 2% of the UK's exports in 2002 took in almost 8%, less year, surpassing Ireland's 5.8% share.† The FTSE 100 is up about about 11.6% year-to-date, making it one of the best performing major markets, behind the Nikkei's 37.4% gain and the S&amp;P 500's 14.2% rise.††† The DAX and CAC 40 are up 8.3-8.5%. UK 10-year gilts have been largely sidelined this year.† The 6 bp decline in the yield is about the same decline that German bunds have shown.† In the quest for yield, which seems to be a powerful force across asset markets, the gilts have been mostly shunned. †† Sterling has had two main moves this year.† The first was a down draft that took it from almost $1.64 at the start of the year to almost $1.4830 by mid-March--a 9.5% decline.† Since then sterling has recovered to test the $1.56 area, a 50% retracement.† On balance, we suspect it can rise toward $1.58.† A move below $1.54 would undermine this constructive outlook.† On a trade-weighted basis, sterling has recouped nearly 3/4 of its earlier loss.†  †† Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith TEL AVIV (Reuters) - Facebook Inc is in advanced talks to acquire Israeli mobile satellite navigation start-up Waze for $800 million to $1 billion, business daily Calcalist reported on Thursday. Due diligence is underway after a term sheet was signed, Calcalist said, adding that talks began six months ago. Waze uses satellite signals from members' smartphones to generate maps and traffic data, which it then shares with other users, offering real-time traffic info. Officials at Waze declined to comment on the report. Waze and Facebook partnered in October 2012 when Waze released its updated version that allows users to share their drive with their Facebook friends. This would be Facebook's third acquisition in Israel. It bought Snaptu in 2011 for $70 million and Face.com in 2012 for $60 million. In the last year, Waze tripled its user base to 45 million and in March alone, 1.5 million users downloaded the free mobile navigation app, Calcalist said. (Reporting by Tova Cohen; Editing by David Cowell) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
It's easy to spot a Fed-sponsored housing bubble if you look in the right places. The best place to start is an analysis of price inflation as measured by the BLS as compared to a CPI-variant that takes actual housing prices into consideration instead of rent. This is a followup to my post Dissecting the Fed-Sponsored Housing Bubble; HPI-CPI Revisited; Real Housing Prices; Price Inflation Higher than Fed Admits. Data for the following charts is courtesy of Lender Processing Services (LPS), Specifically the LPS Home Price Index (HPI). The charts were produced by Doug Short at Advisor Perspectives. Anecdotes on the charts in light blue are by me.Background The CPI does not track home prices per se, rather the CPI uses a concept called "Owners' Equivalent Rent" (OER) as a proxy for home prices. The BLS determines OER from a measure of actual rental prices and also by asking homeowners the question ìIf someone were to rent your home today, how much do you think it would rent for monthly, unfurnished and without utilities?î If you find that preposterous, I am sure you are not the only one. Regardless, rental prices are simply not a valid measure of home prices.OER Weighting in CPIMish Shedlock OER is now at 24.041% of CPI, which still rounds to 24.0%, but the other housing wedge is now an even 17.0%, down from 17.1% in the previous version. The rest of the charts show various effects if one substitutes actual home prices as measured by the HPI in the data.Two Inflation Indexes Mish Shedlock click on any chart for sharper image As measured by the CPI, price inflation is 1.47% annualized. As measured by HPI-substitution, price inflation is a much higher 3.33%. The Fed would have you believe everything is under control. Of course they said the same thing in 2005.Real Interest RatesMish Shedlock Real interest rates are the difference between the Fed Funds rate and measures of inflation. The chart shows real interest rates as measured by the CPI vs real interest rates as measured by HPI-CPI. As measured by the CPI, real rates are -1.83%. As measured by the HPI-CPI real interest rates are-3.18%. For comparison purposes, real interest rate were -4.86 in mid-2004. The housing bubble burst one year later.Fed Misses the ObviousMish Shedlock  The above chart shows how much home prices as measured by HPI diverged from OER. And here we go again.A Word About "Inflation" and Treasury Yields This post is about "price inflation". It does not change my views on credit which I believe is headed for another bust. It also shows how hard it is to actually measure prices. It's easy for the Fed to say everything is under control when it ignores everything important: housing, energy prices, education, and massive bubbles in the stock market, and junk bond market. What about treasuries? When the stock market and junk bond market bubbles burst, the Fed is as likely as not to go further out on the yield curve to suppress rates. Look for the Fed to keep doing the same thing over and over and over again. Fools never learn as noted in a recap of the Fed Uncertainty Principle written April 3, 2008 before the Bernanke Fed started slashing rates in the Global Financial Crisis. Fed Uncertainty Principle:The fed, by its very existence, has completely distorted the market via self reinforcing observer/participant feedback loops. Thus, it is fatally flawed logic to suggest the Fed is simply following the market, therefore the market is to blame for the Fed's actions. There would not be a Fed in a free market, and by implication there would not be observer/participant feedback loops either. I don't care that much for treasuries here as I see no value, but that does not make them a good short. One look at Japan shows central bank sponsored low interest rate paradigms can last a lot longer than most think.
BlackRock via YouTubeRuss KoesterichThe economic world is still digesting the fact that one of the most popular economic papers of the last decade contained a math error. We're talking about Ken Rogoff and Carmen Reinhart's paper that argued heavy government debt loads are correlated to decelerations in economic growth. It's worth noting that the basic findings of their paper still hold.¬† It's just the debt threshold has been raised. Anti-austerians have piled on.¬† But BlackRock's Russ Koesterich warns that it would be a mistake to disregard Reinhart and Rogoff. "While Reinhart and Rogoff have publicly admitted mistakes in their methodology, their paper‚Äôs basic conclusion still holds: Excessive government debt is likely to be an impediment to a country‚Äôs growth," he argues. In a new post on BlackRock's iShares blog, Koesterich notes that the U.S. continues to be in Reinhart and Rogoff's danger zone, which means debt is so high that growth will take a hit. And all of this is bad news for corporate profits and stocks. "A 1% drop in economic growth would have enormous implications for US corporate earnings," warned Koesterich. "In fact, top-line corporate growth is largely a function of economic growth." "[I]n a world in which developed market debt now averages roughly 100% of developed country GDP, both policy makers and investors ignore Reinhart and Rogoff‚Äôs paper at their own peril." Read more at iSharesBlog.com.
Motor AuthorityThe British pound is strengthening after some strong U.K. economic data. Manufacturing output climbed by 1.1% in March, beating expectations for 0.3% growth. Industrial output increased by 0.7%, also beating expectations for a 0.2% gain. All of this comes ahead of the Bank of England's interest rate policy announcement later this morning.
Hardly anybody expected it, but Australia‚Äôs central bank‚Äîthe Reserve Bank of Australia‚Äîcut interest rates Tuesday, dropping its benchmark cash rate to 2.75%. Bloomberg says only 8 of the 29 economists it surveyed expected the axe to fall at this meeting, even though it‚Äôs the seventh cut in the last 19 months. While it‚Äôs often considered somewhat gauche among central bankers to fiddle with currencies, Australia‚Äôs move was widely seen as an effort to weaken the Australian dollar. In its statement, the Reserve Bank even seemed to say so, noting that the currency ‚Äúhas been little changed at a historically high level over the past 18 months, which is unusual given the decline in export prices and interest rates during that time.‚Äù ¬† Quartz ¬†That‚Äôs a record low, by the way. Quartz ¬† If it was an effort to weaken the Aussie, the rate cut seemed to get the right reaction from the markets. You can see the Aussie weaken sharply against the US dollar once the decisions came in around midnight New York time. It touched a two-month low after the rate cut. Quartz Interest rates tumbled, too. Here‚Äôs a look at the shorter end of the Australian yield curve, which is most sensitive to central bank activity:Quartz The question is whether cutting rates will be enough to shore up the Australian economy against the risk of slowing Asian demand for Aussie commodities. Well, it doesn‚Äôt seem like it will hurt. Four large Australian banks have already followed the RBA‚Äôs lead cutting interest rates they charge to consumers and effectively transmitting the RBA‚Äôs policy decision into the economy. And its worth noting that in Australia, like in the UK and Canada, most mortgage debt is floating rate‚Äîthat is, it‚Äôs tied to the fluctuations of short term interest rates. That means an interest rate cut can be efficiently passed along to consumers without the hassles of refinancing that homeowners face in the US. More from Quartz: Pressure is mounting on Jamie Dimon to give up his chairmanship at JP Morgan Pfizer will now sell you Viagra directly to get around the counterfeiters California seems likely to ban fracking Click here¬†to sign up for the Quartz Daily Brief and start your day with the latest intelligence on the new global economy.
As I mentioned in a previous blog post, there has been a lot of recent media attention focused on the building boom that has been taking place in China, and some observers have jumped to the conclusion that itís unsustainable. I felt this topic warranted further discussion. We certainly are not seeing 12 to 20 cities the size of New York going up in China, so itís important to keep things in perspective. It is true that there is a construction boom in China, but thatís mainly because there is a shortage of quality housing and office buildings. It is also true that some projects are big, and not all buildings are occupied all at once. Some buildings are likely to be filled as soon as the occupation permits are obtained.†Based on those realities, itís easy to see that such large developments (ìcitiesî) may be temporarily empty.†I wanted to see for myself what exactly was going on, so my team and I embarked on a tour of some new developments in China. Here is my account. Ghost Towns ñ or Growth Towns?† We drove to the Yantian District of Shenzhen to visit a very successful property developer. I was amazed to see an impressive modern building that I later learned was designed by the American architect, David Hall. The building is surrounded by a lake and is divided into various sections containing office space and a hotel. It also boasts environmentally friendly features, including solar panels on the roof and adjustable blinds on the window to control the incoming sunís rays. In the lobby, there was an indicator showing how many kilowatts of power the solar panels produce. We learned that on a sunny day, they could potentially generate 100 kilowatts. We had a lively discussion with the developer, including the issue of ìghost citiesî in China. From their perspective, sales were robust, with particularly brisk business in fully furnished apartments. In 2012, the company presold 13.5 million square meters of property and of that, 12.9 million square meters should be completed in 2013. (They have a conservative policy of recognizing sales only when the project is completed.) So if there is a bubble there, they (and we) didnít see it. We did see continued demand. The Space Race  My team and I also recently visited Guangzhou, a city that is fast becoming a concrete jungle amid a building boom.†I was amazed at the number of high-rise buildings going up and already completed in the cityís new financial district. My team and I stayed at an ultra-modern hotel with the reception area located on the 22nd floor, giving us a spectacular view of the city.†Almost everywhere we turned to admire the view, weíd see buildings sprouting up and towering above the rest, like trees reaching for the sun.† Guangzhouís new central business district has a well-planned central green stripóa wide swath of land running from its TV tower with its multicolored lights situated on a man-made lake, down to where our hotel stood. The green strip was lined with high-rise office buildings, shopping areas, concert halls and theaters. One particularly striking concert hall looks like a Martian space ship with black and grey walls and windows. We wondered if all the tall buildings going up in Guangzhou would be occupied and if there was enough of a market for that much space. But in China historically, it seems that if you build it, they will (eventually) come. I remember when farm fields dominated the Pudong area of Shanghai, and we were shown a plan of a proposed city with numerous high rises, parks and other facilities. At that time, we thought it was a pipe dream that could never be fulfilled. Now that dream has become a reality in Pudong. I think a similar fate could be in store for Guangdongís new office areas; there may be a few growing pains, but eventually, it appears they could become fully occupied. Of course, when a country has been growing as fast as China has, investors often have little patience. Any missteps or miscalculations can come with painful consequences. As long-time investors in China, my team and I continue to look for opportunities there. And we plan to continue doing our own on-on-the ground reporting, too, to read between the lines and see whatís real. Important Legal Information Investing in real estate securities involves special risks, such as declines in the value of real estate and increased susceptibility to adverse economic or regulatory developments affecting the sector. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ìInvestment Adventures in Emerging Marketsî blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ìTrading with China,î ìThe Investorís Guide to Emerging Markets,î ìMobius on Emerging Markets,î ìPassport to Profits,î ìEquitiesóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î ìMutual FundsóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î îThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,î and ìMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ª
While Europe is integrating at different speeds on different sets of policies, and electricity can easily flow over national borders, electricity remains a very national market. ¬† And the price of electricity varies greatly in Europe. ¬†An Italian family pays more than three times what a Bulgarian family pays and twice what a French family pays. ¬† There are local reasons for this. ¬†Italian households pay among the most for electricity because of relatively high taxes and regulatory inefficiencies. ¬†Denmark taxes are the highest in Europe. ¬†Germany's electricity subsidizes the development of renewables.¬† Even though France, where households pay among the least for electricity, has not been able to find a way to turn it into a competitive advantage, countries like Cyprus, Portugal and Italy may find reform of their electricity markets may benefit industry as well. ¬† ¬†. ¬†        Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
Dimitry B / Flickr, CCMarkets are mostly making very modest moves early in the European trading session. England's FTSE 100 is flat. Germany's DAX is down 0.1%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.9%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.1%. The news flow is quite slow this week. Today, Europe is waiting for the Bank of England's interest rate policy announcement. Economists are expecting things to be unchanged. So far this week, the Bank of Australia, the Bank of Poland, and the Bank of Korea have all announced surprise interest rate cuts in their efforts to stimulate their local economies.
