There's been lots of chatter about currency wars.† This is the idea that central banks around the world will do whatever they can to weaken their local currency against others in an effort to make their exports more competitive. Last week, Morgan Stanley's Manoj Pradhan warned that Japan had "changed the game" and would likely retaliate against other central banks that would attempt to weaken their own currencies. Here's Morgan Stanley today: Policy-driven JPY weakness has re-ignited concerns of a race to the bottom in currency markets, particularly as global growth limps along. To be fair, ìcurrency warî is probably not the best term to describe the current FX environment. First, weíd argue that Japan PM Abeís initiatives are designed to propel Japan from its 20-year battle with deflationary pressures. A weaker JPY is integral to this policy, but the intention is not to inflict pain directly on Japanís competitors. Moreover, a stronger Japanese economy would be supportive to global growth. Second, verbal and actual intervention in EM is nothing new, and we still expect some EM currencies to appreciate in 2013, particularly in [Asia excluding Japan]. Still, itís undeniable that (1) extraordinary monetary stimulus from DM countries has collapsed real interest rates, often leading to currency weakness; and (2) a number of EM and DM policymakers have either raised concerns on domestic currency strength or intervened directly to maintain export competitiveness. Recent price action in [the Korean won] and [New Taiwan dollar], for example, is a powerful reminder of policy-driven trend reversals. Investors must stay watchful for currencies that can devalue on aggressive policy action. But with so many countries unleashing easy monetary policy, who will be the winners and losers? Morgan Stanley's Evan Brown And Marc Englander introduced their "Currency War" basket, which includes six currency trades (see below).† Effectively, they're arguing that Japan (JPY), Korean (KRW), and Peru (PEN) will be more successful at depreciating their currencies than the Europe (EUR), New Zealand (NZD), and Mexico (MXN). Morgan Stanley We'll keep an eye on this. SEE ALSO: 36 Maps That Explain The World &gt;
Flickr/toolmantimFriday will be a relatively slow day, unless you're Canadian. Several important Canadian economic data points will be released on Friday. Also in store is the Italian Industrial Production Index number which will be released early in the a.m., and a little later the U.S. Trade Balance for December. Only a few companies will be releasing earnings reports before markets open, including Moody's and AOL. Here's what you need to know: Below are the top companies that will be posting fourth-quarter earnings reports before markets open tomorrow, along with consensus estimates from Bloomberg: Follow all of Friday's market-moving events on Business Insider &gt;
Daniel Berehulak/Getty ImagesChinese exports climbed 25 percent year-over-year in January, beating expectations of a 17.5 percent rise. Imports climbed 28.8 percent for the month, above expectations of a 23.5 percent rise. Trade balance narrowed to $29.15 billion, but was wider than expectations of $24.7 billion. Trade data is widely considered to be one of the most reliable economic indicators in China. And hard landing watchers closely track import data because it centers on investments and has a domestic demand component to it. But the January number should be taken with a grain of salt since it is largely influenced by the Chinese New Year holiday. "They could be heavily distorted by the [Chinese New Year] holidays (note there are 22 working days in Jan this year versus 17 in Jan last year)," wrote Bank of America's Ting Lu in a note to clients earlier this month. "We also suggest investors to take a pinch of salt on the actual readings in these two months. A more sensible approach is to read Jan and Feb together, just as Chinaís NBS does on major economic data such as IP and FAI." Ting writes that export and import growth have bottomed out, but is cautious about export growth in 2013 because of weakness in the U.S., eurozone and Japanese economies. He does however think imports could rise significantly driven by domestic demand and rising commodity prices. For 2013, he expects import to rise 7.9 percent, and import to rise 11.5 percent.  Updated to add latest comments from Ting Lu on 2013 trade outlook.
Earlier on Thursday, we learned that nonfarm business productivity fell by 2.0 percent in Q4, the sharpest drop since 2008.† This was much worse than the 1.3 percent decline forecast by economists. Intuitively, this is a bad thing.† At least for businesses, managers will have to hire increasing numbers of workers to get that incremental amount of output. The winners in this, obviously, are the people who are trying to get back to work. "While slowing productivity over a broad time horizon is a troubling prospect for the economy, in the short term it is positive news for the labor market," writes Deutsche Bank economist Joe LaVorgna.† "In a low productivity environment, economic growth coincides with a faster pace of job creation." LaVorgna doesn't think this decline in productivity is a bad thing in the context of the big picture. "We see little reason to believe that at this point the productivity slowdown is anything more than a typical cyclical development. (Productivity commonly slows mid-cycle as hiring accelerates.) The chart below illustrates how slowing productivity growth coincided with faster hiring in the current economic cycle." Deutsche Bank SEE ALSO: CITI: This Is What Will Happen In The World For The Next 4 Years &gt;
The ultra-hot Japanese market has been quiet since Tuesday, when it had that ridiculous 3.77% gain. The Nikkei is down 1.3% again today, as markets are going through a slight cool period. Nikkei
jpereira_net / FlickrIndia's government said the economy will likely register its slowest annual growth in a decade and expand just 5.0 percent in the fiscal year ending in March, citing official estimates released Thursday. This is lower than an earlier forecast of 6.2 percent for the year, as the economy continues to be hit by weaknesses in the manufacturing, farming and services sectors, data from the Central Statistical Organisation (CSO) showed. The projection comes a day after a report by the International Monetary Fund forecast India's annual growth declining from 6.5 percent in 2011/12 to 5.4 percent in the 2012/13 financial year. Analysts said the government estimate -- which may undergo a revision by time the fiscal year ends -- underscores the urgent need for more reforms to boost growth. "The government as a priority needs to take steps to revive investment," Shubhada Rao, chief economist with private Yes Bank told AFP. India's finance ministry previously forecast the economy expanding by 5.7-5.9 percent for the current fiscal year while the Reserve Bank of India projected growth at 5.5 percent. "The numbers are disappointing," the Prime Minister's top economic advisor C. Rangarajan told television channels on Thursday. "But I believe that when the year is completed and more data available, the growth will be higher than what has now been estimated," he added. The government expects manufacturing output to grow 1.9 percent this year against a 2.7 percent rise last year, the CSO data showed. India's once-booming economy has slowed sharply due to high interest rates, Europe's debt crisis and sluggish investment caused by domestic and overseas concerns about policy-making and corruption. The Congress-led coalition government has introduced a series of measures since September to encourage foreign investment in key sectors and reduce subsidies, which have led to a ballooning fiscal deficit. Last month, the RBI -- responding to demands from the government and industry -- cut interest rates for the first time in nine months and reduced the amount of cash banks must keep in reserve, to help boost investment. The bank will next meet to decide on monetary policy in March, after the government unveils the federal budget on February 28. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Earlier this week I wrote about the psychological challenges that Apple shareholders face. I also discussed the evolution of Apple‚Äôs ‚Äúi‚Äù gadgets ‚Äî the iPod, iPhone and iPad ‚Äî and how they have created an ecosystem unlike those of other technology companies.Apple‚Äôs ecosystem is an important and durable competitive advantage; it creates a tangible switching cost (or, an inconvenience) after Apple has locked you into the i-ecosystem. It takes time to build an ecosystem that consists of speakers and accessories that will connect only via Apple systems: Apple TV, which easily recreates an iPhone or iPad screen on a TV set; the music collection on iTunes (competition from Spotify and Google Play lessens this advantage); a multitude of great apps (in all honesty, gaming apps have a half-life of only a few weeks, but productivity apps and my $60 TomTom GPS have a much longer half-life); and, last, the underrated Photo Stream, a feature in iOS 6 that allows you to share photos with your close friends and relatives with incredible ease. My family and friends share pictures from our daily lives (kids growing up, ski trips, get-togethers), but that, of course, only works when we‚Äôre all on Apple products.(This is why Facebook bought Instagram for $1 billion. Photo Stream is a real competitive threat to Facebook, especially if you want to share pictures with a limited group of close friends.)The i-ecosystem makes switching from the iPhone to a competitor‚Äôs device an unpleasant undertaking, something you won‚Äôt do unless you are really significantly dissatisfied with your i-device (or you are simply very bored). How much extra are you willing to pay for your Apple goodies? Brand is more than just prestige; it is the amalgamation of intangible things like perceptions and tangible things like getting incredible phone and e-mail customer service (I‚Äôve been blown away by how great it is!) or having your problems resolved by a genius at the Apple store.Of course, as the phone and tablet categories mature, Apple‚Äôs hardware premium will deflate and its margins will decline. The only question is, by how much? Let me try to answer that.From 2003 to 2012, Apple‚Äôs net margins rose from 1.1 percent to 25 percent. In 2003 they were too low; today they are too high. Let‚Äôs look at why the margins went up. Gross margins increased from 27.5 percent to 44 percent: Apple is making 16.5 cents more for every dollar of product sold today than it did in 2001. Looking back at Nokia Corp. in its heyday, in 2003 the Finnish cell phone maker was able to command a 41.5 percent margin, which has gradually drifted down to 28 percent. Today, Nokia is Microsoft‚Äôs bitch, completely dependent on the success of the Windows operating system, which is far from certain. Nokia is a sorry shell of what used to be a great company, while Apple, despite its universal hatred by growth managers, is still, well, Apple. Its gross margins will decline, but they won‚Äôt approach those of 2003 or Nokia‚Äôs current level. Read the rest of this article at InstitutionalInvestor.com &gt;
Many analysts and observers believe that the global imbalances that characterized the world economy in the years before the 2008 crisis have substantially dissipated. But, while it is true that China‚Äôs current-account surpluses and America‚Äôs deficits have somewhat moderated since then, have the imbalances really been corrected? More important, can the post-crisis global economy enjoy both growth and balance? To answer these questions, it is important to understand the imbalances‚Äô underlying dynamics. An economy‚Äôs current account is the difference between its investment rate and its savings rate. In 2007, the United States had a savings rate of 14.6% of GDP, but an investment rate of 19.6%, generating a current-account deficit. By contrast, China had a fixed investment rate of 41.7% of GDP and a savings rate of 51.9%, reflected in a large surplus. Since 2007, the US current-account deficit has narrowed, but not because of a higher savings rate. Rather, the external deficit has been squeezed by a collapse in investment activity, while America‚Äôs overall savings rate has fallen below 13% of GDP, owing to worsening government finances. Meanwhile, China‚Äôs savings rate remains stubbornly high. The surplus has narrowed because investment has been ramped up even higher, to roughly 49% of GDP. In other words, the Americans save even less today than they did before the crisis erupted, and the Chinese invest even more. Any future recovery in the US economy will almost certainly trigger a revival in investment activity. American businesses have postponed much-needed capital spending and, with American airports and bridges in appalling condition by developed-country standards, investment in infrastructure is crucial as well. Indeed, it is very likely that reviving growth will lead to larger current-account deficits, even if the savings rate improves and domestic energy production curtails oil and gas imports. China has the opposite problem. In order to sustain growth, it needs to continue to invest half of its $9 trillion annual GDP ‚Äì no easy task for a country that already has brand new highways and airports. In fact, over the next decade, as China attempts to move up the value chain into services and adjusts to a shrinking workforce, its investment requirements will shrink ‚Äì and its investment rate will fall sharply. Of course, China‚Äôs savings rate will also decline, but Japan‚Äôs experience since the 1980‚Äôs demonstrates how a sharp fall in investment can generate large and persistent current-account surpluses, even when the savings rate is falling and the currency is appreciating. Indeed, a stronger currency can paradoxically feed external surpluses, while discouraging investment in export-oriented industries. The implication is that the post-crisis global economy will not be characterized by balance, but by a return to large macroeconomic imbalances. But, although many economists will consider this problematic, history shows that symbiotic imbalances have characterized virtually all periods of global economic expansion. The Roman Empire ran a persistent trade deficit with India for centuries. Although the resulting outflow of gold caused monetary debasement in the Roman Empire, Indo-Roman trade remained the backbone of the global economy. Similarly, Spain ran persistent deficits in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, paid for by Andean silver. The resulting flood of liquidity caused a global boom that benefited economies from Elizabethan England to Mughal India. And 1870-1913, another period of rapid growth and globalization, was not characterized by balance; it was funded by the United Kingdom, acting as the world‚Äôs ‚Äúbank.‚Äù In the last 60 years, the US has underpinned global growth by running persistent current-account deficits. Under the Bretton Woods system, the US ran deficits that enabled war-torn Europe and Japan to rebuild. In return, Europe funded the US deficits. The system broke down when European countries, particularly France, decided to stop funding those deficits. But the economic model persisted, with Asian economies stepping in to finance the US deficits, while using the US market to grow rapidly. China is the latest and largest beneficiary of the economic model dubbed ‚ÄúBretton Woods II.‚Äù Clearly, periods of global growth are almost always characterized by symbiotic imbalances. But, while each of these episodes was characterized by macroeconomic distortions caused by the imbalances, they lasted for years, or even decades. So, the real question is what the next generation of symbiotic imbalances will look like. It is likely that China will soon return to running very large current-account surpluses ‚Äì potentially large enough to fund the US, with plenty left over for the rest of the world. As this capital cascades through the global financial system, it will re-inflate the economy. In the ‚ÄúBretton Woods III‚Äù system, China will transform from ‚Äúfactory to the world‚Äù to ‚Äúinvestor to the world.‚Äù Like all imbalanced systems, it will have its distortions, but the arrangement could last for many years.
Daniel Berehulak/Getty ImagesDecember trade data surged past expectations, with imports rising six percent and exports surging 14.1 percent on the year. This time around analysts polled by Bloomberg have really hiked up their forecasts. They now expect imports to surge 23.5 percent, and exports to climb 17.5 percent on the year. Trade balance is expected to narrow to $24.7 billion. Trade data is widely considered to be one of the most reliable economic indicators in China. And hard landing watchers closely track import data because it centers on investments and has a domestic demand component to it. But seasonality is expected to be a huge factor behind the strong January trade numbers which is why analysts are warning about giving them too much weight. "They could be heavily distorted by the [Chinese New Year] holidays (note there are 22 working days in Jan this year versus 17 in Jan last year)," writes Bank of America's Ting Lu in a note to clients. "We also suggest investors to take a pinch of salt on the actual readings in these two months. A more sensible approach is to read Jan and Feb together, just as China‚Äôs NBS does on major economic data such as IP and FAI." He is looking for exports to rise 26.5 percent and imports to rise 24.2 percent, above consensus. Meanwhile Helen Qiao at Morgan Stanley warns that as the effect of the Lunar New Year holidays wears off we should be "cautious on the outlook for an export growth recovery, especially in view of the sluggish growth in developed market economies." Qiao is looking for exports to rise 16 percent year-over-year (YoY), imports to rise 18 percent, and for the trade surplus to narrow to $29 billion. Meanwhile, China will also be releasing its inflation data in a few hours. Analysts polled by Bloomberg are look for consumer prices to rise 2 percent on the year, and for producer prices (PPI) to decline 1.6 percent. This comes right after the People's Bank of China warned that it would now prioritize curbing inflation.  SEE ALSO: 10 Ways Chinese Manufacturing Makes The Rest Of The World Look Tiny &gt;
AP/Mark LennihanReuters is reporting that the U.S. Department of Justice is considering bringing a lawsuit against Moody's for fraud. This comes hot on the heels of a DoJ lawsuit filed Monday against another credit rating agency, Standard &amp; Poors, for transgressions related to the financial crisis in 2008. Reuters reporters†Aruna Viswanatha and Luciana Lopez have the scoop: The Justice Department and multiple states are discussing also suing Moody's Corp for defrauding investors, according to people familiar with the matter, but any such move will likely wait until a similar lawsuit against rival Standard and Poor's is tested in the courts. Inquiries into Moody's are in the early stages, largely because state and federal authorities have dedicated more resources to the S&amp;P lawsuit, said the sources, who were not authorized to speak publicly about enforcement discussions. The stock is only down a little more than 2 percent in after-hours trading. However, it's already taken a brutal beating this week ñ down more than 17 percent since the lawsuit against S&amp;P was filed on Monday. "Don't think Moody's is off the hook," a law enforcement official told Reuters. The sources also told Reuters that Fitch probably won't be subjected to a lawsuit like S&amp;P and Moody's. Click here to read the whole Reuters report &gt;
China Photos / Getty ImagesWorkers prepare to depart for a factory at the Shenzhen Quanshun Human Resources Co. Ltd.China has quickly grown to become the world's second largest economy with $7.3 trillion in gross domestic product. Much of this growth was driven by its offering of cheap labor and production to the rest of the world. Bank of America's David Cui recently published his Not So Trivial Facts report on China. In it were some stunning facts about China's massive productive activities. We highlighted 10 key production details from the report and compared the penetration or prevalence of each in China with the rest of the world.
HLN So it seems†a Nor'easter is about to pound parts of the Eastern Seaboard with some nasty weather, including lots of snow, rain, and possibly flooding.† Here's how these kinds of storms form: Cold air from Canada moves southward and toward the East Coast, following the jet stream that flows around the Northern Hemisphere. This hits warm air, welling up from the Gulf of Mexico and moving northward. The difference in air temperature forms a low pressure†system over the warm waters of the Atlantic Ocean. † The low pressure system begins to move up the Atlantic coast. † Counterclockwise winds moving around the low pressure system bring in winds in from the northeast, drawing moist air from over the Atlantic Ocean. The strong northeasterly winds, which is how the†nor'easter, or "northeaster," gets its name, push the low pressure system storm over the northeastern United States†(the Mid-Atlantic or New England region), instead of letting it move out to sea. The track of the storm's center determines whether places get rain or snow.† If the storm moves over the coast, to the west of cities like Boston and New York, it will generally push enough warm air from the ocean inland to bring rain to those places, and snow to the Appalachians.† If the storm moves further east, tracking out to the Atlantic Ocean, places like New York and Boston can see heavy snowfall.†
BoeingThe FAA has approved flight testing for Boeing's Dreamliner jet, it announced this afternoon. In a press release, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and FAA Administrator Michael Huerta laid out restrictions for the flights, including extensive pre-flight testing and inspections, and in-flight monitoring. The flights will be over unpopulated areas, in defined airspace. The 50 Dreamliner jets Boeing has delivered were grounded after the FAA issued an emergency airworthiness directive for Boeing's 787 Dreamliner on January 16. The directive, the first of its kind in decades, was prompted by a battery malfunction that forced an All Nippon Airways flight to make an emergency landing. An ongoing review by the National Transportation Safety Board is examining the jet's lithium-ion battery, believed to be the source of a fire in a parked Dreamliner in Boston on January 7. The FAA will allow now Dreamliner test flights under a Special Airworthiness Certificate, with these requirements: Boeing was allowed to conduct a 787 "ferry flight" this morning, to move a plane from Texas to Washington. That flight was not for testing purposes, but Boeing said via Twitter it monitored battery status throughout the flight.
Flickr / miss-brittAmerica's booming crude production industry has done amazing things for the economy. It's created jobs. It's balanced budgets. Some argue it's even gotten presidents elected. But all that production is never really going to lower Americans' gas prices, because we are competing with the entire world for it. For years now, American gasoline has been priced to the international benchmark crude price, Brent. That's in part because there is now so much production that existing infrastructure can't handle it ó we've discussed this elsewhere. As a result of this glut, West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark price for purely American production, has been severely discounted. But the main reason why everything is now priced to Brent is that a lot of other folks around the world are now demanding it. And while we've explained why many peak oil theories are misguided, oil is still a finite resource that's going to be dictated by basic economics. One final point: in order for gas prices to go down, we'd have to lower our consumption of crude to reduce prices.† Here's a table showing domestic crude production and total consumption. The former is less than half the latter: † EIA As a result, America will continue to import much of its oil, and therefore be subject to Brent crude price movements. "For the foreseeable future, [Brent] will still be the price," the EIA's James Preciado told us.
A Christmas Story screencapNew York City and New England is about to get hit with a massive blizzard, but Wall Street will still be going to work tomorrow.† So what are you supposed to wear when you're being blasted with freezing wind, ice and snow in your face, while walking from the cab or subway into your office? "No MDs [managing directors] are coming in through this snow, especially on a Friday. So basically, feel free to wear whatever," a bank source told us. † That being said, there are still rules you should follow. We've put together these tips with the help of some of our well-dressed friends to stay warm and still look good.† Hope this helps. Good luck out there!
These professors are reshaping the curriculum, teaching extensively about exchange-traded funds, which, until recently, were rarely covered in the¬†coursework¬†of many major universities. Some of the names on this list have even translated their academic theories into investment results, helping create some of the most¬†intriguing¬†ETFs out there. For those wondering who exactly is behind the ETF evolution, we highlight several well-accomplished ETF-friendly professors (in no particular order): [If you're an ETF-friendly professor,¬†drop us a line¬†and let us know a bit about your work; we'd be happy to add you to the list.] In addition to being a¬†professor, K. Geert Rouwenhorst is the deputy dean for the MBA curriculum at the Yale School of¬†Management. His research spans a wide array of topics, including hedge fund strategies, commodity investments and the history of financial innovation. Professor Rouwenhorst is also the co-founder and director of research of SummerHaven¬†Index Management LLC, a pioneer in the commodity indexes space¬†[see¬†Energy Bull ETFdb Portfolio]. Robert Shiller is a professor of economics at Yale University and one of the creators of the Case-Shiller Index of U.S. house prices. There are now a number of financial instruments based on this index, including The Barclays ETN + Shiller CAPE ETN (CAPE). Andrew Lo is a professor at MIT as well as the director of the MIT Laboratory for¬†Financial¬†Engineering. In 2009, Lo co-designed the quantitative model behind the Credit Suisse 130/30 Large-Cap Index, which is tracked by CSM¬†[for Real Time Ratings on (CSM, A-)¬†and more try ETFdb Pro]. Jeremy Siegel is a professor of finance at the Warton School of the University of Pennsylvania and a Senior Investment Strategy Advisor at Wisdom Tree Investments, Inc. Siegel worked closely with Wisdom Tree to develop several dividend-focused exchange-traded funds. Gary Gorton is a professor of finance at Yale School of¬†Management¬†and is currently a Research Associate of the National¬†Bureau¬†of Economic Research. Professor Gorton also worked with¬†SummerHaven¬†Index Management LLC, a pioneer in the commodity indexes space [also check out the ETF Cheat Sheet: Precious Metals]. James DiLellio is a professor of decision sciences at the Graziadio School of Business Management at Pepperdine University. Professor DiLellio is an expert on portfolio management and has done extensive research on exchange-traded funds. Darrol Stanley is a professor of finance and accounting at¬†Graziadio School of Business Management at Pepperdine University. Alongside his colleague James DiLellio, Professor Stanley has also provided key insight on the ETF industry, highlighting their performance relative to the broader equity markets [check out Differentiating Dividend ETFs]. A. Seddik Meziani is the Department Chair and a professor of finance at the School of Business of Montclair State University. Meziani has written numerous books and publications on exchange-traded funds, including the well-known books ‚ÄúExchange-Traded Funds as an Investment Option‚Äù and ‚ÄúExchange-Traded Funds-Conceptual and Practical Investment Approaches.‚Äù Pankaj Agrrawal is a professor of finance at University of Maine and is the Founder and President of Advanced Portfolio Solutions. Professor Agrrawal‚Äôs research primarily focuses on analyzing the performance of long-short ETFs. Zvi Bodie ia a professor of management at Boston University and is a consultant at Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. He is best know for his textbooks and publications on pension finance and investment strategy [for career and investing tips, check out Dividend.com]. K.J. Martijn Cremers is a professor of finance at the University of Notre Dame and is the Associate Editor of the Review of Financial Studies and at the Review of Finance. Professor Cremers introduced a new measure of active¬†management¬† the ‚ÄúActive Share,‚Äù which has become widely used in the financial industry. Miffre Joell is a professor of finance at the EDHEC Business School in France. Her research focuses on the¬†management¬†and pricing of commodities and equities, and her work has been featured in a number of academic journals. Marco Avellaneda is a professor of mathematics at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences of New York University. In his research, Professor Avellaneda applies mathematics and econometrics to the financial market, including analysis on ETFs [also see Differentiating Dividend ETFs] . William F. Sharpe is a professor of finance at Stanford‚Äôs University‚Äôs Graduate School of Business, as well as a Nobel Prize winner in Economic Sciences. He was one of the originators of the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and developed the Sharpe Ratio. Professor Sharpe frequently blogs on his website, Lifetime Finance, about¬†general¬†investing and finance topics. Robert Korajczyk is a professor of finance at the Kellog School of Northwestern University and is the Director of the Zell Center for Risk Research. He has been quoted numerous times about exchange-traded funds, and teaches extensively on the topic in his classes. Hendrik Bessembinder is a professor of finance at the University of Utah and is the Editor of the Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis. Professor Bessembinder has also served as a consultant for the Department of Justice, the SEC, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission [also see How To Swing Trade ETFs]. Allen Carrion is an assistant professor of finance at Lehigh University as well as a consultant for the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The methodologies behind his research are motivated by both academic theory and his experience as a trading floor analyst. Did we miss someone?¬†Drop us a line¬†and let us know if you‚Äôre an ETF-friendly professor; if your story checks out, we‚Äôd be happy to include you in our database. [For more ETF analysis, make sure to sign up for our¬†free ETF newsletter¬†or try a¬†free seven-day trial to ETFdb Pro] Disclosure: No positions at time of writing. Click here to read the original article on ETFdb.com. ¬† Read more posts on ETF Database ¬ª
APPressure is starting to build on both sides of the political aisle to avert the massive, $1.2 trillion across-the-board cuts set to kick in starting March 1 as a result of the looming sequester.† But how did this all happen?  In his September 2012 book, The Price of Politics,†Washington Post reporter Bob Woodward provided the most comprehensive, behind-the-scenes look at how the very people trying to stop it now are the same ones who proposed the idea and signed it into law in the summer of 2011. According to Woodward, the idea started with the White House and President Barack Obama. Republicans voted in majorities for the bill containing sequestration. Both sides are now blaming one another for letting it potentially happen. Woodward detailed a summer of 2011 meeting between Obama and Congressional leaders, Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner, and†White House national economic council director Gene Sperling, among others. Woodward paints the White House as coming up with the idea of a compulsory mechanism to trigger spending cuts ó the sequester ó during a summer while House Speaker John Boehner was initially "nervous" about it. Via Woodward: ìA trigger would lock in our commitment,î Sperling explained. ìEven though we disagree on the composition of how to get to the cuts, it would lock us in. The form of the automatic sequester would punish both sides. Weíd have to September to avert any sequesterîó a legal obligation to make spending cuts. ìThen we could use a medium or big deal to force tax reform,î Obama said optimistically. ìIf this is a trigger for tax reform,î Boehner said, ìthis could be worth discussing. But as a budget tool, itís too complicated. Iím very nervous about this.î Later in the book, Woodward described Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's terrified reaction when White House chief of staff Jack Lew and director of legislative affairs Rob Nabors told him about the idea of sequestration:† ìWe have an idea for the trigger,î Lew said. ìWhatís the idea?î Reid asked skeptically. ìSequestration.î Reid bent down and put his head between his knees, almost as if he were going to throw up or was having a heart attack. He sat back up and looked at the ceiling. ìA couple of weeks ago,î he said, ìmy staff said to me that there is one more possibile [sic]î enforcement mechanism: sequestration. He said he told them, ìGet the hell out of here. Thatís insane. The White House surely will come up with a plan that will save the day. And you come to me with sequestration?î Reid, though, warmed up to the idea when Lew and Nabors told him that the cuts would be half on defense and half on non-defense spending. But the thought was that the "super committee" on debt reduction would be so turned off by the "bomb that no one wanted to drop" that they would come up with their own spending cuts. (They did not end up doing that.) Boehner was skittish, but Republicans eventually agreed to a deal with the sequester as a trigger for action rather than agree to a deal with increased revenues.† The deal eventually passed with overwhelming bipartisan support.†174 of 240 House Republicans supported it, and Senate Republicans voted for it by a 28-19 margin. The support from Democrats was lower in the House (a 95-95 split) but supported it in the Senate 45-6. In the end, Boehner assured House Republicans that the sequester would never happen. ìGuys, this would be devastating to Defense,î he said, according to Woodward. ìThis would be devastating, from their perspective, on their domestic priorities. This is never going to happen." Woodward's book provides the bottom line on the sequester: Obama and the White House proposed it, Republicans overwhelmingly voted for it, and now both sides don't want it to happen but refuse to budge from their stances. SEE ALSO:†More background on sequestration &gt;
The Weather ChannelIn case you haven't heard, a huge winter storm in headed for New York City and the rest of New England. Current estimates say up to 14 inches of snow could blanket the snow, along with strong winds. The National Weather Service has issued a Blizzard Warning for the city and surrounding areas. In preparation for the upcoming snow, the MTA has warned that they will shut down bus service before the worst of the storm hits to prevent stranded passengers and trapped buses, DNA Info says: [Thomas Prendergast, acting chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority] added that the MTA will put chains on bus wheels and use shorter buses on certain routes to prevent buses becoming stranded. ... Alternate side parking will be suspended Friday. Meter rules are still in effect, though that could change. And for the first time, the city's army of snow plows can be tracked in real-time on NYC.gov with an app that goes live Thursday afternoon, Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced during a press conference.
twitter.com/NYSEEuronextMichael Douglas at the NYSE on Thursday.In 1988, Michael Douglas won an Oscar for playing Gordon Gekko in Oliver Stone's "Wall Street." On Wednesday, Douglas returned to the New York Stock Exchange to ring the closing bell and deliver a speech on behalf of The Windward School, where his children attend.¬† "Wall Street"Douglas in his Oscar-winning role as Gordon Gekko in 1987's "Wall Street." Douglas kicked off his speech in the Euronext board room¬†by¬†jokingly saying,¬†"It‚Äôs so nice to be back at the scene of the crime." Douglas' speech was in order to elevate the conversation around dyslexia and celebrate the¬†White Plains-based school's expansion to a Manhattan campus. The Windward School¬†is an independent school for grades first through ninth, tailored for students with language based disabilities ‚Äì primarily dyslexia. Not only does one of Michael Douglas¬†and Catherine Zeta Jones' children attend the school, but so does Harvey Weinstein's offspring,¬†a source tells Business Insider. Douglas says he and wife knew the school was a place they wanted to¬†support because the academic¬†program is designed to enable 98 percent of their students to return to mainstream education. See photos of Michael Douglas and Harvey Weinstein at the NYSE below: Al Pereira/WireImage twitter.com/NYSEEuronext Al Pereira/WireImage Fortune/calibratedconfidence.com SEE ALSO:¬†This Hollywood exec left a multi-million dollar salary to go help kids in Cambodia &gt;
Today's daily chart¬†compares the cost of living in cities around the world. The annual index compiled by our sister company, the Economist Intelligence Unit, shows Tokyo has reclaimed its place as the world's priciest place to live in.¬†Japan's capital has ranked first in 14 out of the past 20 years. Only Zurich (which was first last year thanks to its strong currency), Paris and Oslo have also come first in this period. The index is a weighted average of the prices of 160 products and services, with New York's figure set to 100 to provide a base for comparisons.¬†See the full article for a ranking of selected cities, and where they placed five and ten years ago. The Economist
Wikimedia CommonsSince Dell went private in a $24 billion leveraged buyout (LBO), everyone's talking about whether the days of massive deals with multiple private equity firms throwing down cash are coming back. LBOs†ó deals in which a private equity firm finances the takeover of company using relatively little equity and a whole lot more debt, were the thing to do for a while. Then the financial crisis happened and, while stocks were cheap, it was impossible for PE firms to raise the necessary debt to buy companies. Now everything has changed. There's cash floating around and interest rates are low. On top of that,†according to data from Private Equity International, buyout funds were the most popular private equity funds with institutional investors in 2012, raising 49% more money worldwide than in 2011 ó $130.9 billion. Still, there are serious reasons not to get excited for an LBO bonanza. Back in November, Bank of America said that our current world of low yields and cheap stocks was ideal for leveraged buyout activity. Wall Street could start to see $5-$10 billion deals, but then the $20 billion deals would come, and we'd start to see some real leverage. One could argue that we saw that this week when Silver Lake and Microsoft (with a $2 billion loan) teamed up to take Dell private in a $24 billion deal. The thing is, as LBO pessimists might point out, that deal was only possible because CEO Michael Dell owned so much of the company ó 16%. That's why Dell was able to get over the hurdle that Bank of America pointed out in its LBO report, finding enough initial equity to put into the deal. From Bank of America: The most constraining factor for deal size appears to be equity - not debt. During the pre-Lehman environment large LBO deals were possible as private equity firms pooled resources in so-called ìclub dealsî. Subsequent litigation makes it less likely that enough firms are willing to pool enough resources anytime soon for such mega deals, in our view. Bank of America hedges by saying that a PE firm could team up with a pension fund or other institutional investor, but again, the environment (cheap stocks, low yields, cash floating around) has to be right. That leads us to another reason why pessimists argue that LBOs aren't making a come back ó the fact that stock prices are shooting up. That's where things get a little weird here. The Economist pointed out that since the crisis, something abnormal has started happening. Stocks are yielding more than corporate bonds and high yield junk bonds are falling in line with stocks. This means right NOW could be a really sweet time for deals, but that may not last for long. From The Economist: This suggests the possibility of an arbitrage: borrow money at a rate comparable to the junk bond yield and use it to buy public companies. That, of course, is a key ingredient in the private equity business model. As long as the targetís earnings grow over time and there are no problems with debt refinancing, this should generate a nice return. We may see more big leveraged buy-outs if this unusual spread persists. Again, the question is how long this weird activity continues. We are seeing a great many changes these days, after all. Interest rates are rising, and who knows what that will do to corporate bond yields. That means everyone needs to be careful out there, and that's no kind of time for a bonanza.
(Reuters) - Calling them "tax cheats" and their lawsuit a "travesty," a U.S. appeals court threw out an effort by some American customers of UBS AG to recover damages over bank services that resulted in their having evaded U.S. taxes. The decision by the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago may provide closure to some litigation tied to UBS' 2009 admission that it helped several thousand wealthy Americans evade taxes. The Swiss bank also paid a $780 million fine in settling with the U.S. Department of Justice. Thursday's decision arose from a July 2011 lawsuit by three customers who had held Swiss bank accounts at UBS, and joined an Internal Revenue Service amnesty program that required them to pay back taxes on balances plus 20 percent penalties. Matthew Thomas of California, Himanshu Patel of Arizona and Mathilde Guetta of New York argued that UBS failed to tell them to disclose their accounts, which ranged from $500,000 to $2 million. They also said UBS violated obligations it took on by joining a 2001 IRS program designed to thwart tax evasion. In seeking class-action status on behalf of U.S. customers with similar accounts from 2002 to 2008, the plaintiffs demanded that UBS cover settlement costs, and pay hundreds of millions of dollars of alleged profit tied to the fraud, court papers show. But the 7th Circuit said UBS' obligations under the 2001 IRS program did not run to the plaintiffs, and that UBS had no general duty to prevent them from breaking the law. Writing for a three-judge panel, Circuit Judge Richard Posner likened the plaintiffs' case to children who sue their parents to recover tax penalties because the parents failed to raise them to be honest people. "The plaintiffs are tax cheats, and it is very odd, to say the least, for tax cheats to seek to recover their penalties ... from the source, in this case UBS, of the income concealed from the IRS," Posner wrote. "This lawsuit, including the appeal, is a travesty." UBS spokeswoman Karina Byrne said the bank was pleased with the decision, which she said showed that "plaintiffs cannot turn to UBS to blame it for their own omissions or failures to disclose offshore accounts and to pay taxes." David Deary, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Thursday's decision came 10 months after a California federal judge dismissed Russian billionaire Igor Olenicoff's similar lawsuit against UBS over the bank's handling of $200 million he kept in offshore accounts. Roughly one dozen banks including Credit Suisse AG remain under scrutiny in U.S. criminal tax evasion probes. On January 4, the 272-year-old Swiss private bank Wegelin &amp; Co said it would close after pleading guilty to helping Americans evade taxes. Circuit Judges Diane Wood and Ann Claire Williams joined Posner's decision in full. The decision upheld a June 2012 ruling by U.S. District Judge John Darrah in Chicago. The case is Thomas et al v. UBS AG, 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, No. 12-2724. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Howard Goller and Tim Dobbyn) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Shutterstock.comThere's no better evidence of the growing chasm between America's rich and poor than state tax rates.¬† On average, the nation's lowest-income residents pay tax rates that are twice as high as the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers, according to a¬†new report¬†by¬†The Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy.¬† That includes state, income, property and sales taxes, of which the rich pay 5.6 percent of their income and the bottom 20 percent of earners pay 11.1 percent each year. Using ITEP data, along with data from the Tax Foundations' latest¬†State Business Tax Climate Index, we've compiled a list of the ten states with the best tax rates for the wealthy and, consequently, the largest tax gaps between the rich and the poor.¬†
NOAAThe National Weather Service in New York City just issued a Blizzard Warning for Manhattan for tomorrow, Friday, Feb 8 at 6:00 AM through Saturday, 1:00 PM. From The National Weather Service: A BLIZZARD WARNING MEANS SEVERE WINTER WEATHER CONDITIONS ARE EXPECTED OR OCCURRING. FALLING AND BLOWING SNOW WITH STRONG WINDS AND POOR VISIBILITIES ARE LIKELY. THIS WILL LEAD TO WHITEOUT CONDITIONS... MAKING TRAVEL EXTREMELY DANGEROUS. DO NOT TRAVEL. IF YOU MUST TRAVEL... HAVE A WINTER SURVIVAL KIT WITH YOU. IF YOU GET STRANDED... STAY WITH YOUR VEHICLE. They warn there will be heavy snow and strong winds through New York City, Southern Westchester County and Coastal portions of Northeast New Jersey. Up to 14 inches of snow could fall on the city, and winds could reach up to 45 miles per hour. Temperatures will be in the 20s. The historic storm will converge on New York and New England early tomorrow as two separate storm systems converge.
Meredith Whitney once said that it would take "a new brain" for her to ever invest in Citi. But since former CEO Vikram Pandit was replaced with (new brain) Michael Corbat, some thought she might change her mind. Well, she didn't. At least that's what she said on Bloomberg TVs Surveillance this morning. Whitney's problem is, essentially, that Corbat's giving her nothing to go on. She's bored. From Bloomberg TV: "We do not know yet. What we do know is Mike O'Neill's history, he's the chairman. He likes to downsize, he likes to sell stuff. We know his agenda. We do not know Michael Corbat's agenda. he did not give us an agenda or even a time stamp for when he's going to give us an agenda, so it left people a little bit uninspired." So what does Whitney like (in terms of banks, of course)? Not really anyone. She sees inefficiency everywhere. From Bloomberg  The message that is not getting across here is raise more capital, but the banks can still make money with higher capital levels, they just have to reprice their loans and products. If you look at banks in Turkey, in South America, they have much higher capital levels, but they are lending and a higher rate and they are pricing their products in a way that incorporate higher capital. This is what is frustrating for me about the U.S. system. Loans in the U.S. are still so underpriced. The financial markets are still so gummed up in many cases. And certainly in the consumer market, because banks are not pricing appropriately for risk. "  Watch the full video below, from Bloomberg: 
roland / FlickrStocks took a slight tumble today, and they're negative for the week. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,944, -42.4, -0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,509, -2.7, -0.1 percentNASDAQ: 3,165, -3.3, -0.1 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Manish Swarup / AP As growth slows in Western economies, companies are increasingly looking to emerging markets for growth. That means they'll expect their future leaders to not only be familiar with these markets, but to have spent significant time there.† Despite that, according to IESE Business School professor†Pankaj Ghemawat, many business schools fall short in preparing students for a global business environment. He spoke to the Wall Street Journal on why their approach is flawed.† For one thing, practical efforts to teach international issues are often limited to short trips, as short as a few days and rarely longer then a week or two. That's far too short, and could even be counterproductive, Ghemawat argues: "Thereís little or no permanent effect of something that short, in terms of really opening people up to other realities. If itís all that the faculty will allow, a week or two weeks has a somewhat higher chance of success if you give people some orientation around cross-country differences before they set off on their excellent adventure. I just worry that a week in an emerging market might almost be worse than doing nothing because it leaves people with a false sense of knowledge." Beyond that, students operate with a flawed understanding about globalization. When Ghemawat polls his students on what percentage of phone calls are international, they guess 40 percent. The real number is 2 percent.† We're not as globalized as we think we are, which means that preparation and skill in dealing with emerging markets is essential. Different markets are still highly differentiated, and approaching them as if the world is flat is a recipe for failure. Business schools don't do enough to teach the limits of globalization, and the skill sets required to deal with them.† Change is essential, he argues, otherwise: "We wonít have made much progress from decades ago, when there was a tendency toward one-size-fits-all biases: ìIím going to go forth and assume that the worldís like home, until I stub my toe really badly. Then maybe Iíll pay attention.î Teaching [more] about globalization is a way of taking some of that learning offline, because stubbing your toe can be very expensive in corporate terms." The problem can be especially acute in the United States. Because the market's so large, and because less than 5 percent of the country's multinationals are in more than 20 countries, the focus is frequently on the home market. The burgeoning consumer class in China and India alone could be worth as much as $10 trillion in sales in coming years, and companies like Unilever are succeeding by rapidly growing sales with strategies specifically geared for emerging markets.† It's going to be increasingly difficult to reach the top tiers of companies without a proven track record of success in emerging markets. Companies are looking for new types of leaders It seems like the education system designed to produce them is still playing catch up .† NOW READ: The 10 Best Business Schools For Getting Rich
benswing/FlickrValentine's Day is right around the corner, and this year, you may want to step up your game from the usual selection of flowers and chocolates. We've come up with a whole bunch of sweet and original gifts that your sweetheart will truly appreciate.
By Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Apple has issued a statement on its massive pile of cash. The press release is a response to David Einhorn, who earlier today outlined a proposal for Apple to issue preferred stock as a way of leveraging its cash. In Einhorn's proposal, he urged Apple investors to vote NO on an Apple proposal to prevent the issuance of preferred stock. Apple's cash is a source of consternation to many investors, who feel that Apple is hoarding its pile, and that the market isn't properly valuing all that cash. In Apple's release the company says: We'll evaluate Greenlight Capital's proposal (Editors note: ha!) and nothing in the Apple proxy would foreclose the possibility of doing what Greenlight wanted. The release notes that management and the board of directors are in discussions about ways to return more cash to shareholders. The Greenlight proposal will be considered as part of that overall discussion. Below the dotted line is the full release. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- By early last year, Apple‚Äôs cash balance had built to a point beyond what we needed to run our business and maintain flexibility to take advantage of strategic opportunities, so we announced a plan to return $45 billion to shareholders over three years. As of next week we will have executed $10 billion of that plan. We find ourselves in the fortunate position of continuing to generate large amounts of cash, including $23 billion in cash flow from operations in the last quarter alone. Apple‚Äôs management team and Board of Directors have been in active discussions about returning additional cash to shareholders. As part of our review, we will thoroughly evaluate Greenlight Capital‚Äôs current proposal to issue some form of preferred stock. We welcome Greenlight‚Äôs views and the views of all of our shareholders. As a part of our efforts to further enhance corporate governance and serve our shareholders‚Äô best interests, Proposal #2 in our proxy includes some recommended changes to our articles of incorporation. These changes were recommended independently of Greenlight‚Äôs proposal and would not preclude Apple from adopting their concept. Contrary to Greenlight‚Äôs statements, adoption of Proposal #2 would not prevent the issuance of preferred stock. Currently, Apple‚Äôs articles of incorporation provide for the issuance of ‚Äúblank check‚Äù preferred stock by the Board of Directors without shareholder approval. If Proposal #2 is adopted, our shareholders would have the right to approve the issuance of preferred stock. As such, Proposal #2 has the support of many of our shareholders. We remain committed to having an ongoing dialogue with our shareholders to get perspectives around return of capital and driving shareholder value.
Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul's hair has been the subject of frequent speculation, but we can officially put the rumors to rest. Paul recently confirmed to Business Insider that he cuts his own hair.† Sources close to Paul also confirm that his hair is his own, and not a hairpiece, as is often speculated. Courtesy of CNBC 
Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker has an update to a chart we've seen a lot lately. It's the correlation between the the equity hedge fund index and the S&amp;P 500. As you can see, the correlation has been getting closer and closer to 1, which means that they're increasingly moving hand-in-hand. However, hedge funds are notorious for charging extremely high fees. Assuming this relationship holds, it's probably a lot smarter to just buy a cheap mutual fund indexed to the S&amp;P 500 like the Vanguard 500. Factset, Morgan Stanley Research
BloombergCiti's Willem BuiterCiti recently published its 48-page "Global Economic Outlook and Strategy"¬†report, which provides up-to-date commentary and forecasts for the major economies covered by the bank's army of economists, led by Chief Economist Willem Buiter. The team recently became more optimistic about the developed markets. "For 2013, the advanced economy upgrade is offset by a slight downgrade to our [emerging market] forecasts to leave our global growth forecast at 2.6%, while we are edging up our 2014 global growth forecast from 3.1% to 3.2% (at current exchange rates)," wrote Buiter.¬† On China: "After last year‚Äôs slowdown, we continue to expect China‚Äôs economic growth to level off at 7-8% this year and 7-71‚ÅÑ2% per year in 2014- 2017, reflected in ongoing rapid productivity gains." Buiter's team expects euro area GDP to fall, and cut forecasts for various smaller economies: "Even with the recent improvement in financial conditions, major central banks are likely to keep monetary policy loose and indeed to loosen further, with ongoing asset purchases by the Fed and BoJ, further ECB rate cuts and renewed QE by the BoE." Buiter's team breaks down what's going on in each economy, and gives GDP growth forecasts through 2016.¬† We pulled the highlights.
YouTubeNEW YORK (Reuters) - Commodities trader and hip-hop promoter Tyrone Gilliams was arrested Wednesday on charges of running a $4 million investment scam, according to a criminal complaint filed by federal prosecutors in New York. Gilliams was the subject of a Reuters Special Report in May that detailed his activities and allegations against him by Ohio businessman, David Parlin, in a civil lawsuit. Known for promising his investors superior returns that might make Ponzi-king Bernard Madoff blush, Gilliams was arrested in Philadelphia and is charged with one count of wire fraud. Federal authorities allege that Parlin, working through an intermediary, placed $4 million with Gilliams to be invested in U.S. Treasury Strips, a derivative tied to Treasury bonds. The complaint alleges that Gilliams "did, in fact, misappropriate at least $2 million of the $4 million" he received from Parlin. The Reuters story in May said that Gilliams used some of Parlin's money to sponsor a glitzy black-tie charitable event in Philadelphia attended by rappers and local politicians. One of the guest attendees at the charitable event was hip-hop mogul Sean "P. Diddy" Combs. Federal authorities began investigating Gilliams soon after the Reuters story was published, according to people familiar with the matter who declined to be identified. Gilliams, who has been representing himself in the civil lawsuit, could not be reached for a comment. He was expected to be arraigned later today in New York federal court. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's Philadelphia office was also reported by the sources to be investigating Gilliams. Daniel Hawke, the administrator of the SEC's Philadelphia office, declined to comment. Agents with the New York office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation are also looking into whether a California-based group of investors who invested $1 million with Gilliams may have been similarly scammed, according to two sources familiar with the matter. Louis Craco, the lawyer for Parlin, declined to comment on the arrest. The FBI arrested Gilliams, who lives in a Philadelphia suburb, just days after he was scheduled to sit for a deposition in Parlin's civil lawsuit. The deposition was postponed. A charitable fund set up by Parlin invested $4 million with Gilliams on the recommendation of New York financier Vassilis Morfopoulos. In his lawsuit, Parlin also named Morfopoulos as a defendant. Federal authorities did not charge Morfopoulos with any wrongdoing. His attorney, Christopher Chang, in a statement, said: "Morfopoulos will continue to do whatever is necessary to get David Parlin's money returned from Gilliams." The investment scheme that Parlin invested in, on the surface, certainly seems to have been too good to be true. Parlin claims he was told he could expect to earn a return of 5 percent a week. In the complaint, an investigator with U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District says Gilliams has claimed in the civil lawsuit that he always intended to invest the $4 million from Parlin in a gold deal in the west African nation of Ghana. But the investigator says he has "neither seen nor been told anything that corroborates Gilliam's assertion." (Reported by Matthew Goldstein; editing by John Wallace and Claudia Parsons) 
Jim Rogers stopped by Business Insider to talk to us about his new book "Street Smarts." He talks to us about a moral dilemma he faced at Balliol College that was similar to the one he faced with George Soros at the Quantum Fund. He also tells us about the time he thought he was going to be the next Bernard Baruch (legendary American investor) but ended up getting wiped out instead, and why that lesson was so invaluable to him. Produced by Business Insider Video ¬†
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Corporate Insiders Are Decidedly Bearish Now (MarketWatch) Corporate insiders are now aggressively selling their shares, which is worrisome because such individuals‚ÄîCEOs, directors, the largest shareholders, probably know more about their companies' prospects than the rest of the world. An insider indicator calculated by the Vickers Weekly Insider Report said that on average, insiders were selling more than nine shares of their firms‚Äô stock for every one that they were buying. The last time the sell-to-buy ratio was so high was back in July 2011, just before the debt ceiling debate. Soon after, the U.S. Treasury‚Äôs credit rating was downgraded and the Dow 30 lost some 2,000 points.  Large-Cap Stocks Still Popular, Despite Run-Up (The Wall St. Journal) Even though most large-cap stocks have recently risen to post-crisis highs, it hasn't made them any less popular among financial advisors. Most don't plan to trim their exposure to these stocks. "We have a tactical overweight recommendation on domestic and emerging-market large-caps," Darrell Cronk of Wells Fargo Private Bank &amp; Co doesn't think valuations are stretched, told the WSJ. He added, "there's always room for the market to take a pause or pull back slightly." Investors shouldn't avoid large-cap mutual funds simply based on the data, Laura Lallos, senior analyst at Morningstar told the WSJ.¬† But some may want to put their money into an index fund or may prefer to invest with large-cap fund managers who seek out undervalued stocks. Uncertainty Is Good For Stock Valuations (Richard Bernstein Advisors) Uncertainty remains high as Washington deals with the sequester, the debt ceiling, etc.¬† But Richard Bernstein, CEO of Richard Bernstein Advisors, says that this also means that equities are more attractively valued, which presents investors with good opportunities. "Has there ever been a time in US stock market history when investors were ‚Äúcertain‚Äù and equities were undervalued? We doubt it," he wrote in a note, "The S&amp;P 500 is presently discounting 5-6% inflation for the next twelve months despite that inflation is currently less than 2%. This shows the level of fear among investors, but also shows to us the level of opportunity." FINRA Proposes Reducing Trade Report Time (Bloomberg) Currently, brokerages have to report all the equity trades that they make within 30 seconds of conducting them.¬† But now, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is proposing a change in this rule that would this reporting time down to 10 seconds. This would help trade data reflect the current market more accurately. "More than 99 percent of transactions executed by brokers away from the exchanges already report within 10 seconds, said the group that oversees 4,300 brokerages." Stock Picking Is A Waste Of Time (Consuelo Mack's Wealth Track) Market volatility has become so extreme that investors should spend far more of their energy focused on managing risk than gaming returns, said Andrew Lo, MIT's star finance professor, in an interview on Consuelo Mack's "Wealth Track." "To be passive on the alpha side, meaning you're not trying to look for great stocks, not going to try do do stock picking, you're going to be passive about investing in asset classes; but at the same time, you can also be active in risk management," said Lo. The best way execute his plan is to use managed futures that invest across the widest variety of assets, in addition to stocks, he said. The Commodities Bull Market Is Just Beginning (Templeton Emerging Markets Group) The long-term emerging markets demand for commodities is likely to keep growing,¬†particularly in areas such infrastructure construction and the energy sector, said Templeton Emerging Markets Group's CEO Mark Mobius, in a note. "The supply situation is of particular concern because many natural resources are becoming harder to find and extract, and in some countries, there are added constraints from protectionist policies," he said, "We believe the end result of these developments, which we‚Äôve seen echoed in other mining regions around the world, could be potential shortages of key minerals and metals, which can lead to higher prices."
Flickr / MyTudutDecember consumer credit data is out. Total consumer credit in the United States expanded 6.3 percent at an annualized rate ‚Äì or $14.6 billion ‚Äì in December, ahead of expectations of a $14 billion expansion. Revolving credit ‚Äì credit cards and the like ‚Äì fell 5.1 percent at an annualized rate to $849.8 billion in December. Non-revolving credit ‚Äì auto loans and the like ‚Äì increased 11.4 percent at an annualized rate to $1.93 trillion. The rate of expansion in total consumer credit moderated slightly from November, when credit expanded $15.9 billion. November consumer credit growth was revised down from a $16.05 billion initial reading. Click here for the full release &gt;
IMDBWall Street's pretty gloomy right now. The big names like Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank are laying people off and cutting pay, every day there seems like there's a new scandal, and everyone's laughing at trader e-mails. Still, if you love finance, there are places for you to work and make serious money. Business Insider spoke to recruiters Jesse Marrus founder of StreetID and Skiddy von Stade, CEO of OneWire to get a sense of where people really want to work. Some people like these shops because they know they'll get compensated well (Jefferies), others like a more independant, hands-on environment. In some cases (like Silver Lake) people are interested in specific sectors. Regardless, these firms are getting people's attention and attracting top talent ‚Äî they're winning. "Anytime you have change, be it due to law or the economy, people are extremely creative and see how they can profit from other people's demise," said von Stade told Business Insider. Like Carl Icahn told Bill Ackman, "if you want a friend on Wall Street, get a dog."
BlackBerry lost its way over the years. You can't argue against that. Even after the launch of the iPhone, the company buried its head in the sand and refused to admit the future of smartphones was in gorgeous touchscreen hardware with friendly, innovative interfaces.¬† Consumers started ditching their BlackBerrys for the iPhone and Android phones. First-time smartphone buyers ignored the BlackBerry. The company's dominant smartphone market share dwindled. The stock tanked. And now, six years after the iPhone was introduced to the world, it seems BlackBerry has finally learned its lesson caught up with the competition with its newest smartphone, the BlackBerry Z10. I've been using the Z10 since BlackBerry's big launch event last week. I think it's a great phone with a clever new operating system. But BlackBerry has its work cut out for it in several key areas. Click here for photos of the BlackBerry Z10 &gt; Unlike every BlackBerry before it, the Z10 does not have a physical keyboard. Instead, BlackBerry chose to go touchscreen-only, just like all the other phones that consumers have been choosing over regular BlackBerrys for the last few years.¬† The Z10 is slightly taller and thicker than the iPhone 5, with a 4.2-inch display and a removable rubbery back cover that lets you swap out the battery. It won't be available in the U.S. until mid-March and will cost $150-$200, depending on the carrier. But the most important part of the Z10 is the new operating system called BlackBerry 10. Despite BlackBerry's troubles, the company decided to build its own mobile OS for smartphones and tablets instead of using one like Google's Android or Microsoft's Windows Phone 8 that are readily available for manufacturers to use.¬† BB10 is really good. It took awhile, but BlackBerry finally came up with a mobile operating system that can match iOS on the iPhone and Android.¬† At first glance, BB10 looks a lot like iOS with its static grid of app icons. That's nothing special for a home screen, and it's nothing we haven't seen before from countless other iPhone wannabes.¬† But there's more to BB10 than just a bunch of boring apps on your screen. BlackBerry cleverly designed the OS so everything can be controlled with gestures. They're not the confusing, difficult-to-learn gestures like you see in Windows 8; BB10's controls feel completely natural. Yes, there's a slight learning curve, but it won't take you very long to get the hang of BB10's gestures. It's best to think of BB10 in layers. Swiping from left to right reveals the BlackBerry Hub, a notifications center that stores updates from your email inbox, Facebook, Twitter, texts, etc., beneath your home screen. You don't even have to look at the whole thing, just a half-swipe is enough to peek at your incoming notifications. The Hub also lets you respond to emails, texts, etc. without having to open a separate app. Steve Kovach, Business InsiderThe BlackBerry Hub in BB10. Swiping from the bottom up closes an app, replacing the need to tap a home button. Your app is then stored in a separate window ahead of the normal app grid so you can quickly open it up again. It's the best mobile multitasking experience I've used so far, and reminds me just how much work Apple still needs to do with iOS in that respect. In short, BB10's navigation is brilliant. It's a powerful, customizable operating system that doesn't feel as daunting and intimidating as Android can at times. It's the perfect balance of ease of use and versatility.  It's just solid. BlackBerry has always prided itself on having the best smartphone keyboard, so the challenge was to bring that same experience to the Z10's touchscreen. It works.¬† The BB10 on-screen keyboard is the best I've ever used. The keys are easy to spot thanks to the white letters on a black background, which is reminiscent of the old-school BlackBerry keyboard style. But the best part is how good the keyboard is at predicting what you'll type next. As you type, word suggestions appear over letters on the keyboard. You can then "flick" the word into the text field instead of typing it out all the way.¬† Even better, the keyboard software analyzes the full sentence you're typing and predicts a handful of words you're likely to type next. It saves a ton of time, and it's much easier to use and more accurate than the autocorrect on iPhone and Android.Testing the Z10 was also my first extended use of BlackBerry Messenger (BBM). The experience is largely the same as before, but BBM now has a feature that lets you video chat and share your screen with another BB10 user through the Web. BBM works a lot like your buddy list in Google Talk or AIM, letting you set a status and see when you're friends are online. It's much more robust and useful than the often glitchy iMessage on Apple devices.¬† The Z10's camera is just as bad as everyone says. The software is pretty neat, letting you swap out your subject's face with one from a better shot, but the image sensor is horrible in low light settings. It's nowhere near as good as the camera on the iPhone 5 or Nokia Lumia 920. The screen is measures in at 4.2 inches, slightly larger than the one on the iPhone 5, but with greater pixel density. Images and videos are incredibly sharp. My only complaint is that BlackBerry didn't consider making the display a bit larger like the gorgeous one on Samsung's Galaxy S III. Finally, battery life was decent. You'll have no problem getting through a full day with moderate use. Luckily, the Z10's back cover snaps off you so can swap out a fully charged battery if you need to. Ok, enough gushing.¬† As I wrote after spending a few days with the Z10, BlackBerry's app selection is horrible. The company boasts that there are more than 70,000 apps in its store, but that number doesn't matter. What matters is finding the apps you want. BB10 still can't deliver that.¬† Yes, more apps will surely arrive on BB10, but for now it's still missing a lot of big-name apps like Yelp, Evernote, Instagram, and several others. The apps that are in BlackBerry's app store are mostly just knockoffs and junk. Steve Kovach, Business InsiderOne of the knockoff apps for BB10. It's also a concerning sign that big developers like Facebook and Dropbox didn't think BB10 was worth their time. BlackBerry ended up making those apps itself instead. So that's the biggest problem with the Z10. If you care about apps and services, you're not going to get the best ones right away, assuming you get them at all. And when a developer makes the next hot app, such as Vine or Mailbox, you won't be among the first to try it. That should be a turn off for just about everyone. Now for a reality check. The Z10 is a great phone. BlackBerry 10 is a great operating system. Unfortunately for BlackBerry, it kept us waiting too long for a viable alternative to iPhone and Android (U.S. users will have to wait at least another month), so it's tough to imagine anyone but brand loyalists getting on board. There's next to no incentive for anyone currently using an iPhone or Android phone to make the switch to BlackBerry, and it's not appealing for a first-time smartphone buyer to choose the Z10 due to its lack of high quality apps. If you're already a BlackBerry user, you'll love the Z10. Everyone else will be taking a step backwards by missing out on the great app and content ecosystems found in iOS and Android. Click here for photos of the BlackBerry Z10 &gt;
Some of the wealthiest Californians are threatening to pack up and leave over a newly adopted federal and state income tax hike. As it stands, the richest residents in the state pay up to 51.9 percent of their income in federal and state taxes combined ó the highest combined income tax rate in the country,†NY Times' Adam Nagourney reports. That's left some well-heeled residents less than thrilled. We covered the January PGA event where San Diego-based pro golfer Phil Mickelson said he might follow Tiger Woods' lead and leave the state altogether. Woods now calls Florida home, a state that is quickly becoming the go-to refuge for wealthy Americans looking to preserve their riches. A†report from the Institute of Taxation and Economic Policy†highlights California's tax rates as one of the nation's "fairest" systems ññ which, by ITEP's definition, means it more evenly distributes the tax burden among low-, middle- and high-income earners.†But the state's business tax climate, which factors in individual income taxes, was ranked No. 48 in a study by†The Tax Foundation. If Mickelson and other millionaires are looking for a place to get the most mileage out of their hard-earned cash, we've got a few ideas:†
AP ImagesDavid Einhorn, the hedge-fund manager at Greenlight Capital who wants Apple to issue preferred stock as a way of unlocking value for shareholders, was kind enough to do a brief Q&amp;A with me about the article I wrote earlier. In that article, I described Einhorn's Apple proposal as "just financial engineering" and argued that even he couldn't create something out of nothing. By issuing preferred stock, I argued, Apple would just depress the value of its common stock-† ó so that the transaction would not, in aggregate, create much new value for shareholders. As you can see in the email exchange below, Einhorn disagrees with that conclusion. Of all the ways that Apple could return some of its massive cash mountain to shareholders, Einhorn believes that his "preferred" idea would be the most effective and efficient. And he offers an example in which 1+1 would, in fact, likely produce a value that is at least modestly greater than 2. I still think the preferred idea is needlessly complex and that Apple should instead return cash to shareholders by increasing its dividend and share buybacks. But Einhorn's idea is certainly creative. And there are three things that we very much agree on: Here's the email exchange (lightly edited): DAVID EINHORN: Hi Henry, A few points:† 1. I don't believe that markets are efficient.† We can agree or disagree about that.† I think Apple is mispriced.† We can argue it another day. 2. Capital allocation matters.† Cash and future cash that will be invested at 1% is worth less than cash and future cash put to a higher and better use.† Value can be unlocked by signaling a higher and better use. 3. As a thought exercise:† If Apple distributed $430 billion of 4% preferred.† It would cost $17.2 billion in annual dividends.† If you took the $430 billion of value out of the common, under your math, the remaining common would be worth zero.† Obviously, that canít be right.† What if they issued $500 billion? de ME: David, You are vastly more sophisticated about this than I am, but here are some quick thoughts. I agree that Apple looks undervalued. (I wrote about that here). But I also do think it's possible that they are now entering years of margin and pricing declines and loss of competitive edge that would make today stock's multiple look less cheap than it currently appears. If Apple issued $430 billion of 4% preferred tonight, the common stock would effectively become an at-the-money option with no expiration date. As you suggest, that would indeed be worth something. But I still think the value of the common would get absolutely creamed. And I think the common would get even more creamed if they issued $500 billion of preferred. So you might get 1+1 to equal modestly more than 2 (at least temporarily), but I would be shocked if you got the hundreds of billions of additional aggregate value that you're referring to.  (If this tactic were in fact to produce a sustainable increase in aggregate value, then pretty much every company in the economy should do it.) My question, which I don't think was asked on CNBC, was why not just radically increase the common dividend and use cash flow from US ops to pay it? Wouldn't that get you to a similar place without complicating the capital structure or paying the repatriation tax DAVID EINHORN: It is a question of math.† After a $430 billion distribution of preferredÖ Apple would have $145 billion of cash (that will remain unencumbered), its franchise, and future earnings. If Apple is earning about $40 billion a year now, it would be earning about $23 billion after paying out $17 billion in preferred dividends. All of that residual would belong to the common. It would not be an ìat the money optionîÖit would be an ìin the money optionîÖ The market might judge the p/e to still be 10x and value it at $230 billion.† Or it might value it at 7x †and add back the cash ($300 billion).† Or it might say, ìWe like Appleís new shareholder friendly use of future profitsî and raise the multiple. Or it might do something else. But whatever it is† the sum will be much more than the parts ME: I am conceding this whole argument to you in advance because you're way smarter than I am. Having said that... 1) Why would the $145 billion of cash be "unencumbered"? If Apple were liquidated, the preferred would get paid out first. That cash would instantly be handed over to the preferred shareholders, and there would still be ~$290 billion of preferred left to be redeemed. And that's before the common stockholders got a penny.2) I think one of the reasons Apple is trading at a 10X p/e is that the market thinks the earnings are going to decline over the next several years. By committing to paying out $17 billion of dividends per year in perpetuity, Apple would be severely reducing the percentage of earnings owned by the common shareholders. Therefore, if Apple's earnings shrank, the common shareholders would take the entire hit. If, god forbid, Apple's business went into a secular decline, common shareholders would get squeezed more and more each year.3) Other than possibly engineering a one-time pop in value, why not just radically increase the common dividend?† Or buy back stock?† If you're going to pay out $17 billion of preferred dividends each year, you're going to be paying that repatriation tax (even if you do it out of current earnings--because Apple doesn't make $17 billion in the U.S. each year). So if you're deciding to pay that tax anyway, why even bother with the preferred? Why not just increase the common dividend to $17 billion.4) Do you think that creating a preferred/common capital structure would increase every profitable company's value? If yes, why shouldn't all companies do this tomorrow? (Maybe they should--I'm just curious about your position on this).5) If the point is to lever up the equity, why not just borrow money? Should Apple just borrow $100-$200 billion (at unbelievably low cost) and use the proceeds to pay out a massive one-time dividend? There would be no repatriation tax on this, and then Apple would get to deduct the interest costs.† In other words, what is the advantage to preferred? DAVID EINHORN: To your points: 1.†††††† Technically you are right, but only to the extent Apple was liquidated.† The cash is ìunencumberedí in that the preferred will not have a security interest in the cash.† If subsequent to the issuance of the preferred Apple decided to do something with the cash, it would be free to do so.† It could buy something, invest in its business or even pay a big dividend to the common. 2.†††††† That is one of the reasons.† But, it isnít the only reason.† The poor capital allocation is another.† But, to your point, the common would become more exposed to changes in earnings.† If earnings were to resume growing (even if off a lower base, in your scenario) the EPS growth rate of the common would be higher than it otherwise would be under the current structure. 3.†††††† I have nothing against dividends or buybacks.† From where I sit, Apple has more cash than it needs.† I am aiming for a clever solution where Apple gets to keep its war-chest (which is says it needs) and shareholders can get the value unlocked.†† A big buyback or one-time dividend doesnít do those things.† I also think that the market will reward the preferred dividends at a higher valuation than it will the common dividends because preferred shareholders will only need to focus on the non-volatile income stream.† Common shareholders have to pay attention to many other things in addition to the dividend, so the value of common dividends is not rewarded by them in the same way.† As for $17 billion ñ that was hypothetical so I could show you the problem with your math.† Our suggestion is to start with $50 billion of preferred and a $2 billion dividend and take it from there.† Repatriation is a factor that should be taken into account in judging the ultimate size. 4.†††††† This is an idea that should have appeal to a lot of companies ñ but particularly those that insist on have debt free (or nearly debt free balance sheets) and large war chests of cash.† We proposed this to Dell last year.† They werenít focused on shareholder value for reasons that are now apparent.† Amazing how untouchable foreign cash can suddenly come into use. 5.†††††† Borrowing is an option.† But, it is higher risk.† Loans have covenants and refinancing risk.† Preferred stock does not.† Failing to repay a loan lands you before a bankruptcy judge.† Failing to pay a preferred dividend does not.
Dow theorists have been celebrating because the S&amp;P Industrials and Dow Transports indexes have made all-time highs.¬† According to technicians (i.e. people who trade using chart pattern), this is a bullish sign. This has also served to reinforce "the notion of economic escape velocity," writes economist David Rosenberg in a new note. But he also warns that numerous measures of economic activity ranging from air cargo to steel production are all flat or declining. "That is what I love to do ‚Äì point out anomalies. Something here doesn't pass the sniff test," he wrote.  Here are eight anemic economic indicators that Rosenberg pointed to in his note: Gluskin Sheff ¬† Gluskin Sheff ¬† Gluskin Sheff ¬† Gluskin Sheff ¬† Gluskin Sheff ¬† Gluskin Sheff ¬† Gluskin Sheff ¬† Gluskin Sheff
APWriting in the Financial Times, IEA executive director Marina van der Hoeven says that if President Obama refuses to raise restrictions on exporting crude and liquid natural gas, the country's unprecedented oil boom will dry up. Here's the situation: technically, American companies are not allowed to export those products, as a result of a Carter-era executive order restricting trade of commodities in "short supply" that's still on the books.¬† This wasn't really a problem¬†until recently, as American oil and gas production has gone nuts. Most have been getting around this by exporting "refined products" instead. That's been a boon for refineries, but not for the rest of the industry, van der Hoeven says. Effective as US refiners may have been in mopping up the additional supply and sending it overseas, they have limited capacity to absorb additional barrels of high quality light, low sulphur oil. Much of their capacity is geared to processing cheap, low quality dense, high sulphur grades and maximising their yield of high-value-added products such as gasoline and diesel. Technically, this bottleneck (and subsequent supply glut) has led to lower WTI crude oil prices, as we've previously discussed. But as van der Hoeven says, many American end-users have not really been able to benefit from the situation since the prices they pay are tied to the international Brent benchmark. Van der Hoeven concludes: While new pipeline links, supplemented with increasingly efficient railroad links, will give producers short-term relief from depressed prices, new export outlets will ultimately be necessary to leverage the full potential and reap the benefits of the new American oil revolution. Read the whole piece at FT.com. SEE MORE: Why The Shale Revolution Is Real And Spectacular &gt;
The US Census Bureau just published this great infographic showing the evolution of America's foreign-born population.† Check it out. Census
The report from the Texas A&amp;M Transportation Institute earlier this week says traffic congestion costs drivers $121 billion. We spent 5.5 billion additional hours sitting in traffic in 2011, the year covered by the study. That comes down to $818 per commuter in lost time and wasted fuel. And where would you think the problem is the worst? Los Angeles? New York? No, the worst metro area for traffic congestion is Washington, DC. And I'll bet you that city, probably more than any others, has more people being driven around whose cars and gasoline expenses are paid by us taxpayers too. What are the top 10 most congested metro areas? 1. Washington,DC 2. Los Angeles 3. San Francisco-Oakland 4. New York-Newark 5. Boston 6. Houston 7. Atlanta 8. Chicago 9. Philadelphia 10. Seattle The environmental folks should pay attention to this too. The study says the additional carbon dioxide emissions from traffic congestion equaled 56 billion pounds nationwide; about 380 pounds per vehicle. Here's the silver lining: congestion in the U.S. is actually down from its peak in 2005, but the Institute says that's because of the sluggish economy. With so many Americans without work, or, having left the workforce and giving up the search for work, that reduces the number of commuters and vehicles polluting the air. Here's the link to the full report: 2012 TTI Urban Mobility Report
GlassdoorBusiness jobs are diverse in practice but share a common denominator: money. Some business professionals partner with companies to study the intersection between data and consumer behavior; the intent being to maximize profits from the masses through spot-on branding. Others focus on the finances of the few, dishing out advice on where and how individuals should invest their resources. Meanwhile, those in the cashier profession interact with money in its basic form: the hand-to-hand transaction. But as our list of the Best Business Jobs shows, each profession plays a unique role in the business world. Between 2010 and 2020, the business sector is projected to add 3.8 million new jobs, according the U.S. Department of Labor. Here's a closer look at five jobs expected to flourish, and what it takes to achieve success in them. See¬†U.S. News's¬†complete list of the¬†Best Business Jobs. 1.¬†Market Research Analyst.¬†Conducting polls, crunching numbers, analyzing human behavior‚Äîthese are a few of the techniques market research analysts use to decipher the shopping patterns and trends of consumers. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the field is expected to grow by about 41 percent in the coming decade. A key driver of that growth is the business world's love of data. By dissecting and analyzing data, companies not only gain a strategy for increasing their bottom line, but for understanding what makes consumers tick. "The more we have of data and the better quality that data is, the more useful it will be in creating strategy, and so I just don't see the market research analyst as a position going away anytime soon," says Joseph Cote, professor of marketing at Washington State University. 2.¬†Management Analyst.¬†Companies hampered by disorganization often turn to management analysts for thoughtful strategies to shave away inefficiency and increase profits. Between 2010 and 2020, employment in the field is expected to grow by 22 percent, according to the BLS. Good management analysts, according to Cote, grasp how various organizational players create wealth for a firm. Another piece to that puzzle, he notes, is having the skills to manage stakeholder relationships to maximize a company's profits. "As you move into a more global economy, what we're seeing is that what makes a firm successful is understanding how to balance the [corporate] network or ecosystem around it," says Cote. In that new business climate, "really understanding how an organization functions and how you structure an organization to gain its maximum value‚ÄîI think that's going to become an increasingly important function," he adds. 3.¬†Business Operations Manager. Leaving their imprint throughout several company departments, operations managers hire people, acquire materials for customers, and attempt to predict what products are most likely to sell. The field can be characterized as high-demand and low-supply, with plenty of opportunity for those thinking of dipping their toe in it. "If we talk to any employer, that's the [position] they're most interested in, especially around the idea of project management," Cote notes. "So being able to run an operation and [in] particular, to manage complex projects, there's an increasing demand and fewer people there to fill it." It's also a profession welcoming of individuals who possess the rare duel qualities of business instinct and a penchant for number-crunching. "It tends to require a blending of quantitative skills and qualitative skills, and that seems to be an area where people fall on one side or the other, but that middle road is not one people pursue," he says. 4.¬†Financial Adviser.¬†Mutual funds, asset classes, diversification‚Äîthese are a few investment terms financial advisers break down as they direct you on where to allocate your money. Employment in the field is expected to grow by 32 percent by the decade's end, according to the BLS. Thomas Blanchfield, managing director of investments for the private banking and investment group at Merrill Lynch, notes that the need for financial advisers has grown in part because employees are increasingly managing their own retirement savings these days, in 401(k) plans. "I think that person is obligated to look after their own finances in a way that they perhaps weren't in a previous generation," he says. "For those people that don't feel they are prepared to do it themselves, they are seeking advice," he says. While successful financial advisers are savvy money managers, they must also understand their clients. "The understanding of human emotions and how that affects people's desire, or lack of desire, to be an investor, is really an important part of the job," Blanchfield says. 5.¬†HR Specialist.¬†Depending on the size of a company, the responsibilities of a human resources (HR) specialist can include recruitment, hiring, training, employee benefits, compensation, job enrichment, relocation, performance, termination, and outplacement. Over the coming decade, the field is expected to grow by 20.5 percent, according to the BLS. With a brighter economic picture, companies are seeking more HR specialists to help integrate new employees. "As we come out of the recession, companies are adding people, and you need HR people to take care of the people coming in," says Sharmyn Calhoun, president of the National Human Resources Association. To achieve success in the field, Calhoun recommends a formal education and possibly a graduate degree in an area like human-resource management or labor relations. A law degree can also be a great asset if you work for a unionized company, she notes. If the company you work for has a large staff and the area of your focus is singular, it's still important to be well-versed in all HR disciplines and know how they affect the company as a whole. "You have to be able to think strategically across all the disciplines to be successful in an HR specialist or generalist role," Calhoun says. SEE MORE: The 100 Best Jobs of 2013 10 Hidden-Gem Careers for 2013 and Beyond Experts Predict a Hiring Boom in 2013
January is historically a strong month for inflows as investors make their annual contributions to IRAs and year-end bonuses are invested. This year there was a bulge in such funds as more bonuses and dividends were paid out before the "fiscal cliff" tax hikes expected at the start of 2013. Let's have a closer look at the data: (1) Wages and salaries in personal income popped by 0.6% during December. Odds are this number will be revised upwards given that individual income tax receipts collected by the US Treasury jumped 19.8% y/y (the most since October 2011), with the 12-month average up 1.9% m/m. (2) Dividends in personal income spiked from $782 billion (saar) during November to $1.1 trillion during December. Data available through December show that reinvested dividends in equity mutual funds rose to a record $77.0 billion last year, with a record $46.6 billion during December alone. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Future Is Back. (1) Paradise lost and found. (2) The future is making a comeback. (3) Corporate flows feeding the bulls. (4) The Great Rotation? (5) The fiscal cliff turned out to be bullish. (6) Yearend bulge in bonuses and dividends. (7) The January Barometer. (8) Three major positive trends for the future. (More for subscribers.)
Commodity price inflation is both a social and an economic issue. In emerging markets in particular, food and energy costs take a deeper slice out of consumers‚Äô income, which can lead to the type of unrest that causes governments to topple. In addition to the potential impact of extreme weather on food supplies, central banks around the world are printing a flood of money, which could lead to inflated prices for other goods and services. As investors, our job at Templeton is to search for individual companies that show potential ability to survive and thrive in the face of challenges. I believe long-term emerging markets demand for commodities is likely to keep growing, so my team and I continue to hunt for companies we believe are attractive investment opportunities as a result of commodity demand. Among investment themes, we believe emerging-market growth has the potential to create a long-term bull market for commodities, and could lead to related opportunities, particularly in areas such infrastructure construction and the energy sector. Inflation Inflated In 2012, slowing global growth kept inflation in check in many economies, allowing for expansionary monetary policies. Unfortunately some emerging markets had to stomach an unpalatable combination of rising inflation and slowing growth in their economies, tying the hands of central bankers. India was one case, enduring a GDP growth slowdown. And, the late arrival of India‚Äôs monsoon rains threatened crops and caused price spikes in vegetables and other key crops such as lentils and edible oils. Elsewhere, Mexico saw its annual inflation rate hit a 2 ¬Ω-year high in the fall of 2012. Prices skyrocketed in foodstuffs including eggs, chicken and corn, the latter of which hit a record high per bushel on the world market amid drought conditions in the U.S. Mexico imports about 20%-30% of its corn, so higher U.S. corn prices can lead to higher tortilla prices, a national staple. Corn, of course, is also used globally for feeding livestock and for fuel (ethanol), so tight supplies can have ripple effects in many markets. Energy and Metals  The energy and metals sectors also felt the strain of supply shortages in 2012. Through my recent travels to China, India, Africa and other parts of the emerging world, one clear trend I‚Äôve noticed is a rise in traffic congestion. More and more drivers are hitting the roads, and I don‚Äôt see demand for cars slowing anytime soon. Global auto sales are expected to hit 83 million in 2013.1 As a result, my team and I are likely to continue seeking investment opportunities in the energy sector, particularly in diversified oil companies, until there is a viable alternative to fossil-based fuels to power vehicles. Looking at the ripple effects of the emerging markets transportation boom, an increase in traffic typically means an increase in pollution. Catalytic converters using platinum and palladium can help alleviate vehicles‚Äô toxic emissions. We believe those metals could see increased demand in the use of autos, as well as for other industrial applications, and don‚Äôt forget‚Äîjewelry too. Likewise, nearly every modern dwelling contains copper (for plumbing, wiring, etc.), and there is concern that increasing demand may mean supply shortages this year. While the U.S. and Europe saw housing and construction go bust in the wake of the 2008-2009 financial crisis‚Äîand still haven‚Äôt completely recovered‚Äîthere are places in the world where housing and construction booms are underway. The supply situation is of particular concern because many natural resources are becoming harder to find and extract, and in some countries, there are added constraints from protectionist policies. For instance, in the global mining industry, we‚Äôve seen increasing signs of government pressure to take a larger share of mining profits. Activism has also risen as workers demand higher wages‚Äîviolent clashes at mines in South Africa last year being a prime example. In addition, more incidents of environmental protests can lead to a situation where mineral supplies may not keep up with demand. Another case in point is Peru‚Äôs mining industry. Although by some estimates mining accounts for 20%-30% of the country‚Äôs tax receipts and about 60% of its exports,¬†there are many forces that have constrained output. Billions of dollars‚Äô worth of mining projects were delayed last year as a result of violent opposition concerning water depletion in underground aquifers. This means that mining companies will need to undertake the expensive process of desalinating seawater in order to get the needed water supply. We believe the end result of these developments, which we‚Äôve seen echoed in other mining regions around the world, could be potential shortages of key minerals and metals, which can lead to higher prices. I also believe demand for gold could continue to increase, given that the money supply has increased dramatically in most major economies (including the U.S., Europe, Japan and China). Consumers desire gold not only for its beauty, but many investors view gold as an inflation hedge or a way to store wealth. We‚Äôve also seen central banks globally adding to their gold holdings recently. Often people will witness a decline in various commodity prices at any point in time and assume that the threat of inflation has passed. However, commodity price moves are often caused not by the fundamentals of long-term supply and demand, but by short-term speculation that surrounds the trading of commodities‚Äîtypically based on the most explosive news headlines of the day. It looks to me that the long-term demand trend for commodities overall should continue to move upward. When we have countries like China, India and others in the emerging and frontier markets growing at a strong pace, it‚Äôs reasonable to expect an increased need to power and produce more. Still, this rising tide won‚Äôt necessarily raise all ships. I don‚Äôt see every commodity experiencing greater demand, and demand growth won‚Äôt likely be uniform. While I can‚Äôt predict when a correction will or won‚Äôt occur in these markets, one thing I think we can count on is volatility. The trick is correlating trends to opportunities, which is, as always, what my team and I strive to do through our in-depth research.  ¬† 1. Source: WardsAuto, 2013 Automotive Outlook International. Important Legal Information Investing in the natural resources sector involves special risks, including increased susceptibility to adverse economic and regulatory developments affecting the sector. The prices of such securities can be volatile, particularly over the short term. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª
Bank of America Yesterday at Bloomberg we got the chance to meet David Woo, BofA/ML's brilliant strategist for Global FX and rates. The focus of our segment was on the Japanese yen, but off camera Woo had some interesting thoughts on the US economic situation, and why we're about to approach what he calls a 'moment of truth.' He noted to us that there's been a growing divergence between the S&amp;P 500 and consumer sentiment, and that it may be the case that the expiry of the payroll tax hike is going to have a meaningful effect on spending. This phenomenon, he noted, might not show up for a little while, because it could take time for people to realize that their paychecks have been hit. Some people who only get paid at the end of the month may have not even had the opportunity to digest or assess the new reality, as of the time of recent data. He mentioned, for example, that when the payroll tax cut first went into effect in early 2011, it took awhile for people to react and for spending to rise. These things have a lagged effect. But all that's coming to a head. In a followup email today he writes: "The divergence between buoyant risky assets and sagging US consumer confidence since October has reached a point that a resolution is now both necessary and inevitable. The catalyst or the moment of truth may be the approaching sequestration crisis. In our view, the market is too complacent about the risk of a full implementation of the sequestration that will lead to a sharp slowdown in consumer spending in the months ahead. We expect both the USD and Treasuries to outperform in Feb/Mar." The sequestration (spending cuts) is due to come into effect on March 1. In the meantime, consumers will see more of their (lowered) payrolls. The moment of truth approaches.
These and other cuts will go into effect unless the White House and Congress reach a deal on long-term spending to avoid the process known as sequestration, which calls for $1.2 trillion in spending cuts over the next decade. The cuts will start March 1 if no deal is reached. The proposed cuts, according to Pentagon officials and military budget documents, include: Little said the decision to keep the carrier group home "enables the U.S. Navy to maintain these ships to deploy on short notice in the event they are needed to respond to national security contingencies." The military services face $46 billion in cuts in this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, if an agreement is not reached. Much of that is due to sequestration, while additional reductions will take place because 2013 spending for the military has not been approved. That means it continues to spend under guidelines set by the 2012 budget. President Obama announced his plan Tuesday to avert the budget crisis that includes a package of spending cuts and increases in tax revenue. Obama met Wednesday at the White House with executives of major defense contractors. A group of senior House and Senate Republicans released a proposal Wednesday to replace the cuts through the end of the fiscal year in September with an $85 billion alternative proposal to cut spending with a reduction in the federal workforce through attrition and a pay freeze for members of Congress. The bill would allow federal agencies to hire one person for every three who leave their employment. Todd Harrison, a military budget expert at the non-partisan Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, said the doom-and-gloom rhetoric from the Pentagon and Capitol Hill is "putting a spin" on the matter. Readiness will be affected if training is cut, but it's unclear, he said, how quickly skills erode. For example, he said, delaying the deployment of the USS Harry S Truman doesn't mean the carrier will never sail again. When money becomes available, Harrison said, the Truman will sail. In case of emergency, Congress will find the money to allow the carrier to steam toward trouble, while planes would fly and soldiers would train. "We'd just add to the debt," Harrison said. There is renewed agreement that the spending cuts need to be replaced, but little consensus on how to get it done. "If it's implemented, it'll cut every ship, aircraft, tank, truck program, research and development across the board," warned Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., a leading advocate to replace the impending cuts. "We got into this mess together, and we're going to have to get out together," said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., a co-sponsor of the legislation, noting that lawmakers in both parties supported the 2011 legislation that led to the $1.2 trillion in spending cuts over the next decade after Congress failed to come up with a deficit reduction package on its own. The GOP proposal does not include any tax revenue, unlike Obama's. Rep. Adam Smith of Washington, the ranking Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, said Congress must develop a plan to deal with the long-term deficit, including a balanced approach to cuts to defense and other discretionary programs, and the need to raise revenue, he said. Such a solution is unlikely before March 1, Smith said, but will be more likely in a few months when the damage from the mandatory cuts becomes evident. The president, supported by congressional Democrats, wants revenue to play a role in offsetting the impending cuts, but there is near unanimity among Republicans against any new taxes following the year-end "fiscal cliff" budget deal that raised tax rates on wealthy Americans. "The American people believe that the tax question has been settled," said House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, reiterating GOP opposition to new tax revenue. Recent acceptance among lawmakers that the cuts would probably take effect March 1 has been replaced with new momentum to fix the problem. "Last year, things weren't desperate. They are desperate this year," said Sen. James Inhofe of Oklahoma, the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee. "Last year, we weren't talking about the president's own secretary of Defense saying that this is devastating. It's disarming America." Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said in an interview last week with USA TODAY that the military would be unable to handle threats outside the war in Afghanistan and a crisis in the Middle East if the cuts occur. The Pentagon would have to reduce the Army by 100,000 soldiers, Panetta said. It already plans to shed 100,000 soldiers and 20,000 Marines under a plan to cut $487 billion over 10 years. : 
A lot of the people participating are fans of his work, and merely offering their congratulations and support, but there are others who are asking some interesting questions to which Taibbi can respond with interesting answers. One questioner asked Taibbi about his time in Russia. It's not a country known for its love of reporters, and they were wondering how Taibbi came out unscathed. Here's Taibbi's response: Purely by accident. Honestly, there were some close calls. A lot of bad decisions while I was there, many of them under the influence. One very funny story I've never told: I once worked with a Russian paper called "Stringer" to wiretap Alexander Voloshin, Putin's chief of staff. We published a week of his phone calls. I was so afraid of the consequences, I stayed out of the country when we published. Upon my return I was detained at the airport for 10 hours. I thought I was going to jail for life. In fact, the Russians were simply concerned that the lamination on my passport was coming up in one corner. They thought my passport was fake. Once they reached the embassy, they let me go. But that was one scary 10 hours. Heavy stuff.
In no particular order... 1. As of January 2013, there are 16 people left in the world who were born in the 1800s, according to the Gerontology Research Group. With dividends reinvested, U.S. stocks have increased 28,000-fold during their lifetimes. 2. If you divide their net worths by their age, Carlos Slim and Bill Gates have each accumulated more than $100,000 in net worth for every hour they've been alive. 3. According to Forbes, if a Google employee passes away, "their surviving spouse or domestic partner will receive a check for 50% of their salary every year for the next decade." 4. According to the Deutsche Bank Long-Term Asset Return Study, the last time interest rates were near current levels, in the 1950s, Treasury bonds lost 40% of their inflation-adjusted value over the following three decades. 5. According to a study by Harvard professor David Wise and two colleagues, 46.1% of Americans die with less than $10,000 in assets. 6. There are 3.8 million fewer Americans aged 30 to 44 today than there were a decade ago. 7. Related: The population of Americans aged 30 to 44 is about to start increasing for the first time since 2000. 8. Since 1928, the Dow Jones has increased more than 10% in a single day eight times, declined more than 10% in a single day four times, and gone either up or down more than 5% in a single day 136 times. 9. "U.S. oil production grew more in 2012 than in any year in the history of the domestic industry, which began in 1859," writes Tom Fowler of The Wall Street Journal. 10. "Last year, for the first time, spending by Apple and Google on patent lawsuits and unusually big-dollar patent purchases exceeded spending on research and development of new products," writes The New York Times. 11. Start with a dollar. Double it every day. In 48 days you'll own every financial asset that exists on the planet ‚Äî about $200 trillion. 12. There were fewer state and local education jobs in 2012 than there were in 2005, even though the number of 5- to 18-year-olds has increased by 600,000. 13. Adjusting for inflation, Warren Buffett was a millionaire by age 25. 14. Including dividends, the S&amp;P 500 gained 135% from March 2009 through January 2013, during what people remember as the "Great Recession." It gained the exact same amount from 1996 to 2000, during what people remember as the "greatest bull market in history." 15. "97% of the world's population now lives in countries where the fertility rate is falling," writes author Jonathan Last. 16. The U.K. economy is 3.3% smaller than it was in 2008. The U.S. economy is 2.9% larger (both adjusted for inflation). 17. In 1980, there were 15,099 Americans aged 100 years or more. By 1990, there were 36,486, and by 2012 there were 88,510, according to the Census Bureau. 18. Dell "has spent more money on share repurchases than it earned throughout its life as a public company," writes Floyd Norris of The New York Times. 19. From 2006 to 2011, Hewlett-Packard spent $51 billion on share repurchases at an average price of $40.80 per share. Shares currently trade at $16.50. 20. The International Labour Organization estimates a record 200 million people will be unemployed around the world in 2013. If you gave them their own country, it would be the fifth-largest in the world. 21. Despite the overall population doubling, more babies were born in the U.S. in 1956 than were born in 2009, 2010, or 2011. 22. According to The Telegraph, "Four in 10 girls born today is expected to live to 100. ... If trends continue, the majority of girls born in 2060 ‚Äî some 60 per cent ‚Äî will live to see 2160." 23. Apple's cash and investments are now equal to the GDP of Hungary and more than those of Vietnam and Iraq. 24. Netflix surged more than 50% on Jan. 24 from the previous day's low. $1,000 invested in short-term call options would have been worth $2 million in less than 24 hours. (Please don't try this at home.) 25. In December, a start-up called Contrail Systems was purchased for $176 million two days after it launched. 26. U.S. charitable giving was $298 billion in 2011, according to the Giving USA Foundation. That's more than the GDP of all but 33 countries in the world. 27. According to Bloomberg, "The 50 stocks in the S&amp;P 500 with the lowest¬†analyst ratings¬†at the end of 2011 posted an average return of 23 percent [in 2012], outperforming the index by 7 percentage points." 28. "Globally, the production of a given quantity of crop requires 65% less land than it did in 1961," writes author Matt Ridley. 29. Thanks in large part to cellphone cameras, "Ten percent of all of the photographs made in the entire history of photography were made last year," according to Time. 30. Internal emails caught a team of Morgan Stanley employees sarcastically naming a subprime CDO in 2007. "Nuclear Holocaust," "Mike Tyson's Punchout," "Hitman," "Meltdown," and "S***bag" were all considered. 31. Since 2008, Americans have donated $19.1 million to the U.S. Treasury to help pay down the national debt. 32. Fortune magazine published an article titled "10 Stocks To Last the Decade" in August, 2000. By December 2012, the portfolio had lost 74.3% of its value, according to analyst Barry Ritholtz. 33. From 2005 to 2012, total student loans outstanding increased by $539 billion, according to the Federal Reserve. 34. According to a study by Environics Analytics WealthScapes, the average Canadian household is now richer than an average American household for the first time ever. 35. The 100 largest public pension funds alone have $1.2 trillion of unfunded liabilities, according to actuarial firm Milliman. 36. According to a study by four economists from Cornell, Carnegie Mellon, and Vanguard, "the number of investors who check their accounts drops by 8.7% following a market decline compared to a market increase." 37. The average new American home was 1,535 square feet in 1975 and 2,169 square feet in 2010, according to the Census Bureau. 38. Cambridge Associates estimates that 3% of venture capital firms generate 95% of the industry's returns. It adds that there is little change in the composition of those 3% of firms over time. 39. Growth in America's¬†energy output since 2008 has surpassed that of any other country in the world, according to energy analyst Daniel Yergin. 40. Two news headlines published on the same day last September summed up the U.S. economy perfectly: "U.S.¬†Median Income Lowest Since 1995, " and "Ferrari sales surge to record highs." 41. According to ConvergEx Group, "Only 58% of us are even saving for retirement in the first place.¬†Of that group, 60% have less than $25,000 put away. ... A full 30% have less than $1,000." 42. If you add up annual profits of the entire airline industry going back to 1948, you get -$32 billion. 43. Since 1928, the S&amp;P 500 has closed at a new all-time high 1,024 times, or 4.8% of all trading days. 44. According to California Common Sense, "Over the last 30 years, the number of people California incarcerates grew more than eight times faster than the general population." 45. One in seven crimes committed in New York City now involves an Apple product being stolen, according to NYPD records cited by ABC News. 46. In the first quarter of 2012, the number of iPhones Apple sold per day surpassed the number of babies born per day worldwide (402,000 vs. 300,000), according to Mobile First. 47. On Dec. 5, 2012, Apple stock lost $34.9 billion in market cap. According to CNBC's Carl Quintanilla, 417 of the S&amp;P 500's components had a total market cap of less than $35 billion that day. 48. According to economist Glen Weyl, "Of Harvard students graduating in early '90s and pursuing careers in finance, 1/3 were making over $1 million a year by 2005." 49. According to the Center for Economic and Policy Research, 44% of those working for minimum wage in 2010 had attended at least some college, up from 25% in 1979. 50. According to The Economist, "By 2030, 22% of people in the OECD club of rich countries will be 65 or older, nearly double the share in 1990." 51. According to a study by two Yale economists, if state and local governments acted like they had in the last five recessions, they would have added at least 1.4 million jobs since 2007. Instead, they cut more than 700,000. 52. The number of workers aged 55 and up is about to surpass the number of workers aged 24 to 34 for the first time ever. 53. In 2011, Asia had more millionaires than North America for the first time ever, according to RBC Wealth Management. 54. According to Enerdata, the U.S. consumed less total energy in 2011 than it did in 2000. 55. The IRS estimates that illegal tax-evasion reduced government tax revenue by $450 billion in 2006 (the most recent year calculated). That's roughly equal to what the government spends annually on Medicare. 56. According to The Wall Street Journal, "The average monthly mortgage payment on a median-price home in October, assuming a 10% down payment, fell to $720 at prevailing rates, down from nearly $1,270 at the end of 2005." 57. According to a study by Edward Wolff published in the Bureau of Economic Research, the inflation-adjusted median net worth of American families in 2010 hit the lowest level since 1969. 58. "Household debt is now 163.4% of disposable income in Canada, close to the U.S. level at the height of the subprime crisis," writes The Wall Street Journal. 59. In 2012, the Greek stock market (ATHEX Index) outperformed the Chinese stock market (Shanghai Composite) by 48 percentage points. 60. The International Energy Agency predicts that the U.S. will become the world's largest oil-producer by 2020, overtaking Saudi Arabia. 61. According to CNBC wealth reporter Robert Frank, the population of millionaires in America is now at or above its 2007 high. 62. According to BetterInvesting, the number of investment clubs has declined by 90% since 1998 from 400,000 to 39,000. 63. Public filings show that Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke has owned stock in just one individual company over the last decade: Altria Group (which he sold in 2004). 64. Renaissance Technologies, a hedge fund run by James Simons, has allegedly produced average returns of 80% a year since 1988 (before fees), according to Bloomberg. That would turn $1,000 into $2.4 billion in 25 years. 65. The S&amp;P 500 has returned about 9% a year over the long run, but few years see returns even close to that. Since 1871, the index has risen or fallen more than 20% in one out of every three years. Less than one out of every five years sees a gain of between 1% and 9%. 66. Since U.S. markets bottomed in March 2009, more than $8 trillion of lost wealth has been recouped. 67. During the Federal Reserve's June 2007 policy meeting, the word "recession" was used three times; the word "strong" was used 61 times. The economy entered recession six months later. 68. Last year, Franklin Templeton asked 1,000 investors whether the S&amp;P 500 went up or down in 2009 and 2010. Sixty-six percent thought it went down in 2009, while 48% said it declined in 2010. In reality, the index gained 26.5% in 2009 and 15.1% in 2010. 69. The share of an average U.S. household budget going toward gas in 2012 was nearly 4%, tying for the highest level in almost three decades, according to Energy Information Administration figures cited by The Guardian. 70. "Of the Americans who earn over $150,000, 82 percent had a bachelor's degree. Just 6.5 percent had no more than a high school diploma," writes Catherine Rampell of The New York Times. 71. According to a survey by Paola Sapienza and Luigi Zingales, effectively all economists agreed that stock prices are hard to predict. Only 59% of average Americans felt the same way. 72. According to the IMF, if Japan's female labor-participation rate rose to levels of Northern Europe, its per-capita GDP could be permanently increased by 8%. 73. Credit card debt as a percentage of GDP is now at the lowest level in two decades. 74. The Energy Information Administration predicts that U.S. oil imports will fall to 6 million barrels a day next year ‚Äî their lowest level in 25 years. 75. According to economist Stephen Bronars, the new 39.6% federal tax bracket will only affect 0.7% of taxpayers but will hit 9.5% of aggregate personal income, as top earners earn a disproportionate share of the national income. 76. From 2001 to 2007, new-home construction outpaced household formation by more than 3 million homes. 77. According to Gallup, 51.3% of Americans consider themselves "thriving," 45.1% say they are "struggling," and 3.6% say they're "suffering." 78. An average couple will pay $155,000 in in 401(k) fees over their careers, according to Demos, reducing an average account balance from $510,000 to $355,000. 79. Related: 84% of actively managed U.S. stock funds underperformed the S&amp;P 500 in 2011. 80. According to The Wall Street Journal, 49.1% of Americans live in a household "where at least one member received some type of government benefit in the first quarter of 2011." 81. According to New York Times writer Binyamin Appelbaum: "Average months between US recessions since 1854: 42. Months since last recession: 42." 82. With bond yields near all-time lows, Richard Barley of The Wall Street Journal writes, "For a one-percentage point rise in yields, 10-year U.S. Treasury holders now face a drop in price of nearly nine percentage points." 83. "By 2050, workers' median age in China and Japan will be about 50, a decade higher than in America," writes Robert Samuelson. 84. Of the 3.1 million students who graduated high school in 2010, 78.2% received their diplomas on time, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. That was the highest percentage since 1974. 85. The U.S. birthrate declined 8% from 2007 to 2010, according to Pew. At 63.2 per 1,000 women of childbearing age, the 2011 U.S. birthrate was the lowest since records began in 1920. 86. According to Wired magazine, "In a 2006 survey, 30 percent of people without a high school degree said that playing the lottery was a wealth-building strategy. ... On average, households that make less than $12,400 a year spend 5 percent of their income on lotteries." 87. According to David Wessel of The Wall Street Journal, Americans "spend about half of their food budgets at restaurants now, compared to a third in the 1970s." 88. We are used to hearing how much faster the earnings of the top 1% grow compared with everyone else's, but we often forget that it used to be the other way around. From 1943 to 1980, the annual incomes of the bottom 90% of Americans doubled in real terms, while the average income of the top 1% grew just 23%, according to Robert Frank. 89. According to Vanguard founder John Bogle, the average equity mutual fund gained 173% from 1997 to 2011, but the average equity mutual fund investor earned only 110%, thanks to the tendency to buy high and sell low. 90. According to David Leonhardt, median family incomes have fallen substantially over a decade for the first time since the Great Depression. "By [2011], family income was 8 percent lower than it had been 11 years earlier, at its peak in 2000." 91. The rise in domestic energy-production has already shaved $175 billion off our annual import bill compared with five years ago, according to energy analyst Daniel Yergin. 92. Federal nondefense discretionary spending ‚Äî all spending minus defense and entitlements ‚Äî is on track to hit its lowest level as a share of GDP in more than 50 years, according to data from the Congressional Budget Office. 93. Bonds have become so richly valued that UBS is reportedly reclassifying brokerage clients who are overweight bonds as "aggressive" investors ‚Äî most likely to avoid future lawsuits if and when bonds lose value. 94. According to The Economist, "Over the past ten years, hedge-fund managers have underperformed not just the stock market, but inflation as well." 95. According to Bloomberg, "Americans have missed out on almost $200 billion of¬†stock gains¬†as they drained money from the market in the past four years, haunted by the financial crisis. 96. In the 1960s, wages and salary income made up more than 50% of GDP. By 2011, it was less than 44%, as dividends, interest, and capital gains made up a growing share of the nation's income. 97. S&amp;P 500 companies held $900 billion in cash at the end of June, according to Thomson Reuters. That was up 40% since 2008. 98. "More than 50 million Americans couldn't afford to buy food at some point in 2011," writes CNNMoney, citing U.S. Department of Agriculture data. In June 2012, 46.7 million Americans received food stamps. 99. Japan's working-age population is on track to decline from 62.6% of its population in 2012 to just 49.1% by 2050. 100. The unemployment rate for those with a bachelor's degree is just 3.7% ‚Äî less than half the nationwide average.
Flickr/mark_donoherThere have been rumblings from credit strategists at Citi, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale, and BofA Merrill Lynch in the past few days warning clients that if Treasury bond yields rise too quickly this year, there could be a total bloodbath in credit markets. In a note to clients this morning, Goldman Sachs strategist Charles Himmelberg says these fears are totally overblown, writing that "the risk posed to credit by a sell≠off in rates is very low." The "big picture" here is that investors have continually moved out on the risk spectrum as the zero interest rate policy environment has dominated markets since the financial crisis in 2008. Since corporate bonds typically pay higher yields than government Treasury bonds, investors have piled money into corporate bonds via mutual funds and ETFs ñ and those funds now account for a significant size of the market. The concern is that, when investors realize that they are going to get negative returns on their corporate credit investments in these mutual funds, they will head for the exits, creating a messy, forced-selling situation ñ and because Wall Street dealers have been decreasing their inventories of corporate bonds to comply with financial regulation known as the "Volcker Rule," there would be no one left to take the other side of the trade from the mutual-fund sellers, causing a credit market disaster. There's a catch, though. This line of thinking not only assumes that interest rates are going to rise, but it also assumes that they rise rapidly. This caveat has been made clear by those strategists warning of this type of forced-selling scenario. Goldman's Himmelberg tries to push back against some of these concerns in his note. He writes: A second risk relates to the concern of many clients that fund flows to corporate bonds ñ which have been so robust at times over the past several years ñ could suddenly turn negative. This concern is commonly motivated by the fear that retail 'newcomers' to credit investing (via mutual funds and ETFs) are insufficiently aware of how much rate risk they own, and may therefore react strongly when faced with negative returns caused by a sell≠off in rates.  We think such concerns are overdone. For one, many of these same investors will have also been burned by equities over the past decade, and may not be so quick to abandon fixed income for equities. Second, even if this 'great rotation' does materialize, we think credit should suffer less than pure rates exposure or, for that matter, money market funds and bank deposits. Third, we think institutional investors would welcome such an exit and exploit the opportunity to add risk at better levels. And fourth, fund flows are not destiny. Indeed, in contrast to what we have argued was true during the 2009≠-2010 period, our recent estimates reveal very little correlation between fund flows and spread moves in credit space. In short, we are not concerned about fund flow reversals even if they should materialize (which they have yet to do, notwithstanding the remarkably heavy inflows into equities over the past few months). The other crucial input to Goldman's view that makes it contrast with that of strategists at other banks is its belief that 10-year Treasury yields will only reach 2.25 percent by the end of 2013. That implies only around a 0.3 percentage-point rise from today's levels ñ hardly constituting a major selloff in the Treasury market. Still, that's what everyone seems to be worried about at the moment, based on color from strategist meetings with clients ñ a rapid increase in Treasury yields, sparked by better than expected developments in the U.S. economy. Himmelberg thinks this is highly unlikely: The most plausible 'growth' scenario under which a sell≠off in rates could be bearish for credit spreads would be a scenario in which inflationary pressures turns out to be unexpectedly high. In addition to being highly unlikely given the current state of the economy, there is very little historical precedent for 'better growth' causing 'higher inflation' to such a degree that it has a net negative impact on risk sentiment. In macro scenarios where the first≠-order driver of the scenario is growth, we think the offsetting effect of inflation (fueling a tighter monetary stance, etc.) would likely be secondary. However unlikely, if inflation does unexpectedly heat up, or a surprise increase in hiring and wage inflation indicates that unemployment is more structural than previously assumed, Himmelberg acknowledges that Goldman's "sanguine view could conceivably unravel." READ MORE: The Street Warns Of A Messy Credit Selloff &gt;
Politicians crave the spotlight, but it is unfortunate that investors watch the show. 2012, like 2011, was another year in which Washington theatrics scared investors. As a result, investors largely missed out on above-average equity returns. Corporate profits and valuations, and not Washington, continue to be the primary drivers of equity returns. We think there are several important points to consider when reviewing 2012 performance, and when structuring portfolios for 2013. The US economy doesnít stink. In fact, it is reasonably strong. Politicians love to claim that the economy is performing poorly, and that we ìhave to get the economy rolling.î However, the latest GDP report of 3.1% over the past year is higher than the 30-year average of 2.9%. The US economy is actually growing faster than average! Early-cycle sectors of the economy, such as housing and autos, have been showing marked improvement. Consumer confidence has significantly risen. Corporate profits have held up reasonably well despite a stronger US dollar and weakening non-US economies. Inflation remains very subdued. Uncertainty is good! Many have suggested that the ìuncertaintyî surrounding Washington and the fiscal cliff has deterred both financial and real investment within the US economy. This uncertainty, though, has tautologically translated into attractive equity valuations that, we feel, present investors with good opportunities. Has there ever been a time in US stock market history when investors were ìcertainî and equities were undervalued? We doubt it. As we have previously pointed out, the S&amp;P 500 is presently discounting 5-6% inflation for the next twelve months despite that inflation is currently less than 2%. This shows the level of fear among investors, but also shows to us the level of opportunity. ìAusterityî will not necessarily hurt the economy and the markets. Many commentators have mentioned that the coming fiscal ìausterityî will hurt the economy and the financial markets. We are not convinced because bull markets are not always based on the combination of stimulative monetary and stimulative fiscal policy. For example, the 1982 bull market was based on very tight monetary policy (Chairman Volker aggressively tightened monetary policy to fight inflation) and very stimulative fiscal policy (the Reagan-era budget deficits which were, at the time, the largest peacetime budget deficits in history). Fiscal austerity is bound to happen in some form over the next several years, but the Fed seems intent on keeping monetary policy loose. Without inflation and inflation expectations meaningfully accelerating, it is hard to see how the Fed would quickly reverse course. Donít ignore the US Industrial Renaissance. In the December issue of The Atlantic, Jeff Immelt, GEís CEO, is quoted as writing that outsourcing is ìquickly becoming mostly outdated as a business model...î (See, Fishman, Charles. ìThe Insourcing Boomî. The Atlantic. December 2012.) We continue to believe that US manufacturing companies will gain market share as the decade progresses, and this remains one of our favorite investment themes. Closing wage differentials, lower energy costs, cheaper distribution costs, and political stability are all factors that companies are increasingly considering when locating new plant and equipment. Washingtonís theater is clouding, what we think is, one of the most interesting investment stories. We continue to favor small and mid-cap industrial and manufacturing companies. We canít emphasize enough that we view Washington as a sideshow (perhaps a very adequate analogy!), and that investors might be better served by focusing on fundamentals rather than politics. History shows well that corporate profits and valuations, and not Washington, ultimately drive equity returns. European stocks outperformed everything. Perhaps the biggest surprise at year end was that Europeís stock performance outpaced that of other regions of the world. In fact, European stocks were the best performing major asset class. Corporate fundamentals continue to deteriorate in Europe, but it is probably worth watching those fundamentals closely for any improvement in 2013. Bond Bubble? Not in Treasuries. Many observers have claimed that there is a bubble in the bond market. We continue to disagree with such statements because: The current bond market doesnít seem to fit the historical characteristics of financial bubbles. Importantly, bubbles historically transcend society and are not simply financial market events. The bond market has not become a widespread societal event. According to data from ISI, bond portfolios in aggregate have consistently had durations shorter than benchmark for the past seven years. If there were indeed a bond bubble, one would expect durations to be extraordinarily long. Treasury returns are not abnormal. In Chart 5 in the appendix, 2012ís treasury bond returns were actually quite normal relative to history. There do seem to be abnormally high flows into short-duration bond funds, but these funds generally do not focus on treasuries. Munis outperformed Gold ñ again! We remain quite puzzled with US dollar-based investorsí enthusiasm for gold. Gold is expensive on a real basis, and came close to the all-time high in real prices set in 1980. The US dollar has been stable for almost five years, as the trough in the Dollar Index (DXY) was in April 2008. More importantly, investors are ignoring the opportunity costs associated with investing in gold. The S&amp;P 500 outperformed gold in 2012 and even municipal bonds have now outperformed gold in each of the past two years.
Alcatel-Lucent CEO Verwaayen stepping down as group sinks to hefty 2012 loss PARIS (AP) ‚Äî Alcatel-Lucent CEO Ben Verwaayen is leaving the loss-making French-U.S. telecommunications gear maker after a failed four-year bid to turn the business around. Verwaayen said in a statement Thursday that it was "clear to me that now is an appropriate moment" for Alcatel-Lucent to seek new leadership. Investors cheered the news, with shares jumping 7.7 percent in early trading to ‚Ç¨1.40. The Dutchman's surprise departure comes as Alcatel-Lucent reported losing ‚Ç¨1.37 billion ($1.85 billion) last year, compared with a ‚Ç¨1.1 billion gain a year earlier. No details on Verwaayen's replacement were provided. He has agreed to stay on as caretaker until a successor can be found. Alcatel-Lucent said it will look at candidates both internally and from outside the company. Verwaayen joined Alcatel-Lucent in 2008 after the ouster of the previous management led by American Patricia Russo. Russo and her French counterpart Serge Tchuruk had masterminded the $11.6 billion merger of Lucent of the U.S. and Alcatel of France. The combined company has racked up many billions of euros in losses since its creation in 2006, something Verwaayen has spent four years trying to reverse. Alcatel-Lucent supplies telecom operators and corporations the technology for building global communications networks. It has suffered from repeated rounds of costly layoffs and restructuring, as well as intense competition from the likes of Ericsson of Sweden, China's Huawei and Nokia Siemens Networks, a Finnish-German joint venture. The Franco-American company is in the middle of a ‚Ç¨1.25 billion restructuring program aimed at cutting 5,500 jobs, ending unprofitable contracts and leaving or reorganizing operations in poor markets. Verwaayen said Thursday the company has "seen progress" on the plan announced last July, and pointed to growth in its order book as a sign of customer confidence. Alcatel-Lucent had aimed to raise its profitability from the 3.9 percent adjusted operating margin achieved in 2011, but abandoned that target halfway through the year. It finished 2012 with an adjusted operating margin of only 2.9 percent. Last year's earnings were hit by a further ‚Ç¨1.4 billion charge as Alcatel-Lucent continued to account for the falling value of past acquisitions and its own fixed assets. Verwaayen was lauded on arrival in October 2008 after for transforming BT Group from a troubled, loss-making phone operator into a profitable and aggressive leader in broadband Internet access. But Alcatel-Lucent proved to be a tougher challenge than expected. Sales slid 5.7 percent last year to ‚Ç¨14.4 billion and the group continued to burn cash, recording a seventh-consecutive year of negative cash flow. Whoever steps in to replace Verwaayen will have to uncover a fresh path to profitability, after seven years of restructuring failed to achieve goals set out at the company's creation. The Alcatel-Lucent tie-up was designed to boost margins through cost and research and development savings, while improving the joint company's pricing power with telecom operators, its largest customers. The combination was seen as creating the critical mass needed to compete with the likes of China's Huawei Technologies Co. and Ericsson AB of Sweden. But intense competition in the telecoms industry has meant many of the savings have been used on discounts passed to customers, and analysts said Alcatel-Lucent has not coped as well as some of its competitors. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing.
PBS NewshourLegendary MIT finance professor and recognized world-influencer Andrew Lo is warning we should all stop picking stocks. In an interview on Consuelo Mack's "Wealth Track" (via ValueWalk), Lo says market volatility has become so extreme that investors must spend far more of their energy focused on managing risk than gaming returns: In the old days, when volatility was relatively steady, when the risk of investing in the stock market was relatively well known and stable over time, then active versus passive was a †sensible dichotomy. The problem is that over the last few years, because of the changing macro landscape, volatility itself has shifted so dramatically, I think there's a third category of investing: to be passive on the alpha side, meaning you're not trying to look for great stocks, not going to try do do stock picking, you're going to be passive about investing in asset classes; but at the same time, you can also be active in risk management.† Lo uses last year's S&amp;P 500 movement to make his case. For the year, it was up 14.5 percent. But through July, the year-to-date return was zero, he notes. "If you had taken money out, then you would have missed that 12 percent or 16 percent gain." "Now, owning the S&amp;P is like owning one big asset that's exposed to [macro] factors."† Lo says the best way execute his plan is to use managed futures that invest across the widest variety of assets, in addition to stocks. Macro risks are now too great, and can have such a disproportionate impact, that trying to time the market is close to impossible. "There's a difference between market-timing and risk-timing, and individual investors should not be trying to market-time at home," Lo says. Watch the whole interview at ValueWalk.
Google FinanceMarkets are falling early in the U.S. trading session. Earlier this morning, we learned that initial weekly jobless claims fell slightly from a week ago.¬† However, the level was still higher than what most economists were looking for. Still, markets are pretty close to an all-time high. The Dow closed at an all-time high of 14,164 on October 9, 2007. The S&amp;P 500 hit its all-time high of 1,565 on the same day.
The Upper East Side's uber-exclusive Dalton School¬†caused a scandal when it released a list of this year's rejected students in a fundraising email, according to The New York Post. The email reportedly included the names of those who didn't get into the elite secondary school, as well as those who withdrew their applications¬†‚Äî a sign that a student didn't get in and pulled his application to save face, sources told The Post. Apparently, the faux pas was a way for the school to increase its revenue. The Post explains: The revealing e-mail went out as part of a fundraising effort to have school supporters lobby parents of recently rejected kids for money, sources say. Recipients, we‚Äôre told, were encouraged to make contact with the families in an effort to broker better relations and deepen the potential fund-raising pool. According to Dalton's website, applicants' families will be informed by email on Friday whether or not their child has been accepted. It seems for a select few of very angry parents, they already know the answer.
Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista is drifting farther away from his ultimate goal of become the richest man in the world. In fact, as of yesterday, he's not even one of the 100 richest people on the planet. The sleuths on Bloomberg's billionaires team, tracking the flow of money around the world in real time, report that Batista lost $300 million yesterday when his shipbuilder OSX Brasil SA fell 11%. OSX is a part of an empire that includes mining, energy, logistics and more companies. All of it is held in EBX, Batista's holding company. Last year, Batista lost his place as Brazil's richest man to Jorge Lemann, the man who owns Anheuser Busch. Batista peaked in March 2012 when he had a fortune of $34.5 billion. Now he has about $10.7 billion. And remember, there's additional pressure for Batista to perform here. Last year he struck a deal with Abu Dhabi's sovereign wealth fund, Mubadala Development Company, for a $2 billion investment in his empire in exchange for a 5.63% stake in EBX. However, if Mubadala's investment doesn't return 5% by 2019, Batista has to turn over more of EBX. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a nail-biter. Click here to see how Eike clawed his way to the top and then started heading down&gt;
Einhorn wants Apple to issue a new class of preferred stock that will pay a 4% dividend in perpetuity. Einhorn argues that Apple's issuing this stock will immediately create hundreds of billions of dollars of new wealth for Apple shareholders, by "unlocking" the value of the cash on Apple's balance sheet. Although anything is possible--the stock market sometimes behaves in strange ways--it is important to note that Einhorn's plan does not actually create any new value for Apple or Apple shareholders. It's just financial engineering. And assuming investors aren't currently being completely stupid in evaluating Apple's assets and business, this financial engineering should not deliver a huge boost in wealth for those who own Apple stock. As BI editor Joe Weisenthal explains here, Einhorn's premise is that investors are not assigning the proper value to the $137 billion of cash on Apple's balance sheet. Einhorn is certainly entitled to his opinion, and there's no way to prove what value the market is actually attributing to this cash versus the value the market is placing on Apple's business. All we know is that, together, the market values the cash and the business at about $430 billion. As I explained in detail in this article, that value looks low relative to the combination of Apple's business and Apple's cash. But since the value of a stock is based in part on what happens in the future--and because no one knows what will happen in the future--no one knows for sure what Apple is worth. This "no one," it must be said, includes David Einhorn. All we know is that, relative to current earnings, Apple's stock looks cheap. (Importantly, if Apple's business and profit margins decline over the next few years, Apple's stock is not currently cheap. BlackBerry and Nokia looked cheap in the years before their businesses collapsed. So did Palm. None of those stocks were actually cheap. I don't think Apple's business will collapse, but I do think their profit margin will decline. The question is how much. The bottom line is that, no matter how confidently people tell you that they know what will happen with Apple over the next few years, they don't know. They also don't know whether the stock is cheap or whether the market is correctly valuing Apple's cash. All they know is that the stock looks cheap.) So, anyway, David Einhorn wants Apple to give shares of a new class of preferred stock to current shareholders. These preferred shares will pay a 4% dividend. Einhorn suggests that Apple issue $50 billion of this preferred stock, which will mean paying out $2 billion a year in new dividends. Einhorn suggests that this will "unlock" the value of all the cash on Apple's balance sheet and finally clue the market into the fact that it is not valuing that cash properly. I think the market probably is valuing the cash on Apple's balance sheet properly. I think that if Apple published a press release tomorrow morning saying that an employee had embezzled the entire $137 billion of cash and then vaporized, Apple's stock value would drop by about $137 billion. Apple is the single-most-scrutinized public company in the world, and I think the market is, in aggregate, very much aware of how much cash Apple has. And I think the market is probably assigning a perfectly reasonable value to it. If Apple issued $50 billion of new preferred stock, this preferred stock would be "senior" to Apple's common stock--the stock that trades for about $450 a share these days. What that means is that, if Apple got liquidated tomorrow, the folks who owned the preferred stock would get $50 billion off the top before Apple's common shareholders got anything. If the market is behaving even remotely rationally, the market should therefore respond by knocking the value of Apple's common stock down by about $50 billion. In other words, if Apple issued $50 billion of this new class of preferred stock tonight, the price of Apple's common stock should open tomorrow at about $400 a share. Why? Because no matter how good a financial engineer you are, you can't just wave your magic wand and make something out of nothing. If Apple issues this stock tonight, the value of Apple's enterprise and assets will not change. All that will change is the form of ownership of, and claim on, these assets. And the folks who own the $50 billion of preferred stock will have a more senior claim on those assets than the folks who own the common stock. Einhorn may believe--and he may be right--that Apple's issuing preferred stock will befuddle mom and pop investors who won't take the time to understand that they now have a claim to less of Apple's assets than they did before. And Einhorn may hope that, as a result of this befuddlement, the market will misprice the preferred stock and common stock, thus allowing him to do what every financial engineer wants to do--appear to create something out of nothing. And, again, Einhorn may be right. He's brilliant. And anything is possible. But Einhorn shouldn't be right. If the market is behaving rationally, Apple's overall value should not change. The issuance of new preferred stock should reduce the value of the outstanding common stock, such that the transaction is effectively neutral. Furthermore, if the goal is to "unlock value," issuing preferred stock is needlessly complicated. Instead of issuing new preferred stock, Apple should just significantly increase its regular dividend. This will not require Apple to "repatriate" the cash that it holds overseas (to avoid taxes)--the logic that Einhorn uses to explain why Apple shouldn't just do a huge share buyback. Apple's U.S. business generates enough cash that Apple can pay these future dividends out of its U.S. operations. This will have pretty much the same effect as issuing preferred stock that pays a dividend--except without needlessly complicating Apple's capital structure. Again, David Einhorn is brilliant. And, unlike mom and pop Apple shareholders, David Einhorn will certainly be able to exploit any inefficiencies in how the market is valuing two classes of Apple stock. And David Einhorn may believe--and, importantly, may be right--that he can persuade the market that Apple should be worth more if it issues this preferred stock. But, over the long haul, the market generally gets it right. And "right" in this case is the observation that you can't create something from nothing. (At least not with financial engineering.) SEE ALSO: Apple's Stock Looks Cheap
In that article I laid out the beginning matrix for evaluating the performance of nations using a broad set of criteria that would monitor progress toward the primary objectives associated with my new discipline called Globalnomics. For those of you who were not fortunate enough to have read that earlier article, in it I listed a preliminary set of eight performance criteria that could be used to set the foundation for the PERC National Performance Evaluation Review.¬† The measureable weighting system regarding the preliminary set of criteria that I proposed for monitoring the world‚Äôs nations and building a set of globalnomic baseline statistics were as follows: The process of gathering national information relating to the above criteria has just begun.¬† There is a wealth of information from excellent and reliable world sources regarding all of the above criteria that can be checked and cross-checked for evaluation purposes.¬† But since the Food/Water criteria heads the top of my list, I thought it would be worthwhile sharing just a small sample of what my team of analysts has begun to uncover. The primary source information and the national summaries that follow come from the 2012 International Programs (IP/CALS) at Cornell University and Homeland Productions.¬† Other solid cross-checking sources exist that confirm the general information that I am about to share.¬† Since there is so much talk about the declining position of the United States especially in relation to the BRIC nations (Brazil, Russia, India, and China), I thought it worthwhile to share an ‚Äúearly‚Äù look at how the United States and the BRIC nations might fair in the evaluation of what is considered the most important of my globalnomic categories: ¬†Food and Water.¬† The following table provides that early look. Food/Water (Globalnomics) U.S. BRAZIL RUSSIA INDIA CHINA Population (in millions) 309 194 142 1171 1338 Population Growth 0.7% 0.9% -0.1% 1.3% 0.5% Hunger Index Industrial Low Low Alarming Moderate Undernourishment &lt;= ¬† 5% 6% &lt;- ¬† 5% 19% 10% Food Consumption (cal/day) ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 3,748  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 3,113  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 3,376  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 2,352  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 2,981  Cereal Crop Yield (kg/ha) ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 7,238  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 3,113  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 3,376  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 2,352  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 2,981  Arable Land (ha/person) 0.53 0.32 ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 0.86  0.14 0.08 Water Resources (m3/person) ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 9,179  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 29,037  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 30,405  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 1,252  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 2,113  Farm Employment 1.5% 17.4% 8.6% no ¬† data 39.6% Income Spent on Food 6.4% 24.7% 29.7% 29.5% 23.0% Obesity Percent 33.9% 11.1% no ¬† data no ¬† data 2.9% ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† Cereal Crop per Person (kg/person) ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 3,836  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 996  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 2,903  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 329  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 238  ¬†¬†¬† Humor me, please, and take a another second longer look at the above table and consider how the five nations above compare.¬† Look at the Hunger Index.¬† Look at Food Consumption by person.¬† Look at the Cereal Crop Yield and the Arable Land that each nation has.¬† Look at the Water resources of the different nations.¬† Look at the amount of income that the nations spend on food.¬† And yes, also take a look at Obesity rates.¬† The last item, the Cereal Crop per Person, might be the most telling and is essentially just the multiplication of two of the earlier factors. Now that you have given some thought to the above, I would like to share with you the national summaries that were provided by the source mentioned above. United States of America: World‚Äôs biggest economy and leading exporter of wheat, corn, beef, and many other commodities.¬† Most unequal wealth distribution of all major developed countries.¬† Economic woes have led one in seven Americans to rely on food assistance.¬† Rapid changes in diet causing serious health problems, especially among poor.¬† Three fourths of Americans overweight, more than one-third obese, and more than 8% diabetic. ¬†Brazil: World‚Äôs largest cattle producer and top exporter of coffee, chickens, sugarcane, tropical fruit; second largest exporter of soy, mainly to China.¬† Rapidly declining poverty, inequality, and malnutrition.¬† Large agribusiness sector, but most farms subsistence level.¬† Many landless.¬† Lacks infrastructure, especially in rural area.¬† Among the most bio-diverse countries in the word, contains large portion of Amazon basin. Russia: World‚Äôs wheat prices doubled when largest country in world and fifth leading wheat exporter banned exports during 2010 drought.¬† More than half of farmland output comes from household plots.¬† Unlikely to become world‚Äôs breadbasket with climate change.¬† Scientists predict gains in some areas and losses in others.¬† Official food security policy calls for 80% of basic foodstuffs to be domestically produced by 2020. India: Despite dramatic economic growth, world‚Äôs second most populous country remains home to more hungry people than any other nation.¬† Rising incomes with persistent malnutrition known as India enigma.¬† More than half of labor force works in agriculture but productivity is low.¬† Population strains all social and environmental systems.¬† Concerns include water shortages, soil erosion, salinization, desertification, drought, season flooding, and air and water pollution.¬† Long term challenges include infrastructure, education, and growing demand for meat and dairy. China:¬† Contains one-fifth of world‚Äôs population and one-tenth of its arable land.¬† Extremely rapid economic growth primarily concentrated in urban areas.¬† Trending towards less poverty and malnutrition but increasingly challenged to produce sufficient food.¬† Outsourcing cereal and soy production to Africa and South America.¬† Facing serious water shortages in highly populated northern plain, traditionally the country‚Äôs breadbasket.¬† Increasing numbers of livestock straining fragile pasture land. And now to wrap up this early preliminary national review of the most highly valued category within Globalnomics, Food and Water, the following table offers an opportunity to see how a few other nations (e.g., ¬†Japan, Iran, Egypt, The Democratic Republic of Congo, and Ethiopia) stack up against the United States and the BRIC nations. ¬†¬†Eat and drink well, my friends. Food/Water (Globalnomics) Japan Iran Egypt Congo Ethiopia Population (in millions) 128 74 81 66 83 Population Growth -0.1% 1.1% 1.7% 2.7% 2.1% Hunger Index Industrial Low Low Alarming Alarming Undernourishment &lt;= ¬† 5% &lt;= ¬† 5% &lt;= ¬† 5% no ¬† data 41% Food Consumption (cal/day) ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 2,812  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 3,044  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 3,195  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 1,605  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 1,980  Cereal Crop Yield (kg/ha) ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 5,920  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 2,981  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 7,635  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 772  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 1,652  Arable Land (ha/person) ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 0.10  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 0.24  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 0.04  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 0.10  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 0.17  Water Resources (m3/person) ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 3,371  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 1,757  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 23  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 14,018  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 1,503  Farm Employment 4.2% 21.2% 31.6% no ¬† data no ¬† data Income Spent on Food 15.2% 24.0% 38.0% no ¬† data no ¬† data Obesity Percent 3.1% 14.2% 30.3% no ¬† data no ¬† data ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† Cereal Crop per Person (kg/person) ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 592  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 715  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 305  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 77  ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† 281  ¬† ¬†

Activist investor Bill Ackman, who is shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife stock, has just released 38 pages of 284 questions for the company. Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, believes Herbalife is a pyramid scheme and has a price target of $0. His list of questions for the company asks about retail sales, Herbalife distributors, research and development, etc. [.PDF]. And then this one...† Pershing Square
Another day in the decline of the private sector √† la Fran√ßaise. Formerly named Brealu, the foundry manufactured cast-aluminum intake manifolds, suspension arms, steering pump housings, and other automotive components. Among its customers: Renault, German heavy-truck maker MAN, US automotive component supplier BorgWarner, and French conglomerate Alstom. Hobbling along on its last leg, the foundry was acquired by Diversified Machine Inc. (DMI), a worldwide automotive component supplier, which itself was acquired by US private equity firm Platinum Equity. Along the way, 40% of the employees at DMI in Vaux were axed. ‚ÄúWe specialize in acquiring operationally complex businesses, finding undiscovered opportunity, and creating value,‚Äù Platinum Equity says on its website. But it doesn‚Äôt always work out. The DMI operations in Vaux ran aground in France‚Äôs private-sector crisis. French automakers, already mired in a morose industry, were unable to compete with foreign brands. While Hyundai, Kia, and some German brands experienced major sales gains in France last year, Renault‚Äôs sales collapsed by 20%. So Renault, which had been buying about half of DMI‚Äôs production, slashed its orders. And on June 25, 2012, Platinum Equity had had enough. It sent DMI to the Tribunal of Commerce in Montlu√ßon to seek bankruptcy protection. The Tribunal granted protection for six month, in the hope that an acquirer could be found in the interim. If not, the Tribunal would seal DMI‚Äôs fate on February 21. Liquidation! ‚ÄúWe are once again facing an unbearable human and economic tragedy over the loss of manufacturing jobs in our region,‚Äù wrote National Assembly member Bernard Lesterlin at the time, a Socialist in whose district DMI was. He talked with members of the board, questioned Productive Recovery Minister Arnaud Montebourg ‚Äúon this painful issue,‚Äù and promised a meeting with ‚Äúall local stakeholders‚Äù in order to save the remaining 171 jobs. Then a potential buyer emerged: Gianpiero Colla. He‚Äôd been acquiring tottering automotive component makers. Hope! He‚Äôd make an offer, he‚Äôd save the jobs. But on January 18, he announced that he would not be able to put together an offer unless the customers of DMI, particularly Renault, guaranteed that they would purchase sufficient quantities. Enraged, the remaining 170 employees clamored to get the government involved. To induce Renault to commit to more purchases, they decided, ironically, to stop all shipments to all customers. Then on Monday, February 4, Colla announced that he wouldn‚Äôt make an offer; he hadn‚Äôt been able to get Renault to guarantee sufficient purchases. The deal was off. The company would be liquidated on February 21. Tuesday morning, the employees, now down to 168, placed about ten gas cylinders inside the plant and rigged them in a way as to turn them into bombs. The entrance to the factory was blocked by barricades of old tires and a burning pile of pallets. Angry men milled around. Photos of the gas-cylinder contraptions circulated. Some officers of the Gendarmerie, discretely deployed at a distance, did nothing. ‚ÄúWe all have worked for the company on average for 30 years, we saw it evolve, it‚Äôs our baby,‚Äù said Gabriel Gavin of DMI‚Äôs union, the CFTC. ‚ÄúIf our jobs disappear, the plant will disappear with us.‚Äù A large handwritten sign explained the deal: ‚ÄúDMI Platinum killed us. Renault, MAN, BorgWarner finished us off. They must pay 50,000 ‚Ç¨/P.‚Äù In other words, the desperate workers threatened to blow up the factory unless they were paid ‚Ç¨50,000 per person. ‚ÄúWe want the American fund Platinum, which put us into this situation, to come back to the negotiating table,‚Äù demanded Didier Verrier, secretary of the company‚Äôs union committee. ‚ÄúBut not for nothing. We won‚Äôt discuss anything less than ‚Ç¨50,000 per person.‚Äù Extortion. Not exactly a helpful message for the private sector just when investments in factories and jobs were needed more than anything else. That the Gendarmerie refused to intervene sent another message: this type of extortion is tolerated. And investors were once again scratching their heads. OK, the workers were just trying to get everyone to focus on the issue‚Äînamely their jobs or ‚Ç¨50,000 per person. It worked. Wednesday morning, National Assembly member Lesterlin showed up at the factory. Instead of telling the Gendarmerie to arrest the workers and remove the bombs, he told the workers that the negotiations between Renault and Colla had not been broken off, after all. And a meeting was scheduled for next week at the Ministry of Productive Recovery with Colla and representatives of DMI‚Äôs customers. Whatever success or payout this might lead to, it won‚Äôt heal the French automakers so that they can build cars that the French want to buy in larger numbers. It is a discouragement for investors, another nail in the coffin of the private sector. And Renault, well, it now has another reason to shop for its components in China where much of the world‚Äôs component industry has landed. It put the Socialist government in a quandary. While it promised to side with workers, it is also worried about their ‚Äúradicalization‚Äù and has instructed police intelligence services to spy on them. Not exactly a campaign promise. Read.... French Government Fears ‚ÄòSocial Implosions Or¬†Explosions‚Äô
ECB Today, the ECB elected to leave the euro area's benchmark refinancing rate unchanged at 0.75 percent and the deposit rate unchanged at 0.5 percent. The biggest questions ECB President Mario Draghi had to face at the press conference following the release came on three fronts: the surging euro exchange rate, Ireland's plans to liquidate nationalized bank Anglo Irish, and the Monte dei Paschi scandal engulfing Italian politics in the run-up to their national election in a few weeks. After perhaps unwittingly sparking a big run in the euro at his last press conference, Draghi took the opportunity today to emphasize on multiple occasions that the ECB's monetary policy stance remained "accommodative." Draghi took the opportunity to address the exchange rate directly in his opening statement, saying, "Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be seen as broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside risks relating to higher administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher oil prices, and downside risks stemming from weaker economic activity and, more recently, the appreciation of the euro exchange rate." When the Q&amp;A began, the first question was about the ECB's stance on the euro's appreciation. Draghi replied that the recent appreciation in the exchange rate is a sign of confidence in the euro, but that the central bank would certainly want to see if the appreciation, if it remains sustained, will alter their forecasts for price stability. Draghi said the ECB would update their forecasts next month, so they might find out then. "In the mean time, we will maintain our accommodative stance," he concluded. Another important question concerned the repayment of super-cheap loans known as LTROs, offered by the ECB to euro-zone banks during the height of the euro crisis. In recent weeks, the banks have gotten the first opportunity to repay, and these repayments have helped drive the euro and short-term market rates higher in the currency area. The fear is that excess liquidity would continue to shrink in the euro area as banks repaid the loans, resulting in a de facto tightening of monetary policy. Draghi said that excess liquidity should remain well above 200 billion euros. He also said he wouldn't make too much of the increase in EONIA (a market interest rate for bank funding) we've seen recently because it may be due to a variety of factors including structural changes as certain banks repay LTROs and return to the market. All of these comments helped send the euro about a penny lower against the U.S. dollar during the presser. The other topic that dominated the discussion was the Irish government's plan ‚Äì announced yesterday ‚Äì to liquidate nationalized bank Anglo Irish in order to lessen Ireland's debt burden to the ECB. Several speculated that the ECB may have discussed whether they would approve of the deal at this morning's meeting of the Governing Council. However, Draghi repeatedly pushed back at questions on the Ireland situation, referring reporters back to the Irish government and Irish central bank, saying it was in their hands at the moment. "I can only say today that we took note of this," said Draghi, referring to the Irish government's plan. Below is a live blog of the presser. --------------------------------------------- 8:34 AM ET:¬†Mario Draghi is late. 8:38:¬†Draghi is taking the stage. 8:38:¬†Draghi: Inflation has eased in recent months, inflation to fall below 2% in coming months. This allows our monetary stance to remain accommodative. 8:40:¬†Draghi: The euro area is set for a weak economy in the first half of 2013. The euro economy should recover gradually, and monetary policy will support this. 8:43: Draghi: The risks for the euro area continue to be on the downside and include weaker than expected domestic demand and exports, slow implementation of euro area reforms. 8:45:¬†Draghi: Risks to stable prices remain broadly balanced ‚Äì one downside risk is the recent appreciation of the exchange rate. 8:50:¬†Q&amp;A begins. Full text of opening statement here. 8:51: First question is about the Anglo Irish deal. Can ECB confirm? Second question: what is the ECB's take on the recent appreciation in the euro? 8:51:¬†Draghi: There wasn't a decision to take on Anglo Irish. The Governing Council unanimously took note of the Irish operation, and you can check with the Irish government for details. "I can only say today that we took note of this." 8:51:¬†Draghi: The recent appreciation in the exchange rate is a sign of confidence in the euro. We will certainly want to see if the appreciation, if it remains sustained, will alter our forecasts for price stability. In the mean time, we will maintain our accommodative stance. 8:54:¬†Were last night's developments over the Anglo Irish deal choreographed with the ECB? 8:54:¬†Draghi: "I wouldn't speak of choreography." Reiterates that the Governing Council took note of Ireland's actions. 8:55:¬†Next question regards LTRO repayments: what is the ECB's read of it? Also, regarding calls from French President Francois Hollande for a managed exchange rate, what do you say to that? 8:56:¬†Draghi: If you look over the last six months, we've certainly had significant improvement "on the financial side of the economy." Bank financing is up 65 percent year-over-year. 55 percent of total sovereign issuance in this month has come from non-core countries. Last year, 93 percent was only coming from core countries. TARGET2 balances continue to improve. Repayment of LTRO is a sign of confidence which simply says that many banks used LTRO for precautionary reasons. Non-bank and corporate funding is also having a good season. The cost of protecting against inflation and deflation has gone down. The situation remains fragile, as evidenced by weak credit flows. SMEs that have to finance themselves via banks continue to face strained credit conditions. On Hollande, we should always remember that the ECB is independent. 9:02:¬†Next question:¬†Are you ready to counter any increase in market rates with a cut in the main refinancing rate? Also, at what level of excess liquidity would you expect there to be more pressure on market rates? 9:03:¬†Draghi: As I said, our monetary policy stance is accommodative and our overnight rates remain close to zero. On the second question, I said before that excess liquidity should remain well above 200 billion euros. I would make too much of the increase in EONIA we've seen recently because it may be due to a variety of factors. Some of it may be structural as certain banks repay LTROs. 9:05:¬†Question on Monte dei Paschi. If the derivatives scandal were revealed in 2011, when it took place, some may say it would have affected your chances for the ECB presidency. How would you respond? 9:06:¬†Draghi: The Bank of Italy has had a detailed account of the Monte dei Paschi story on their website for over a week. The IMF has publicly stated that their preliminary view is that the Bank of Italy took appropriate action. 9:09:¬†Next question:¬†Does the ECB still have to sign off on ELA for Ireland every fortnight, or is there a fundamental change in the way the Irish government is proposing to handle the debt? 9:10: Draghi:¬†One thing I can add on Ireland is that there is no more ELA, so that is a positive step. However, this is entirely in the hands of Ireland and the Irish central bank. 9:19: Next question: Is the Monte dei Paschi scandal a warning sign that the central bank is not the best regulator for euro zone banks? Also, the exchange rate affects the real economy. So, what is wrong with targeting it? 9:20:¬†Draghi: The Governing Council is already convinced that it is taking actions compatible with price stability and job creation. "We are not doing the exact same things as the U.S. Fed in America," but our stance is accommodative. We remain with the question of why credit growth is so subdued in light of what we've done. This fragmentation between financing conditions for large corporates and SMEs will have to be looked at as well. We will do everything within our mandate to get credit flowing again. Regarding the Monti dei Paschi question, I disagree. However, it highlights the importance of separation between supervisory powers and monetary policy. 9:25:¬†Next question: Are there any lessons to already be learned from Monti dei Paschi? 9:26:¬†Draghi: I think removal of bank leaders is an essential power bank supervisors must have. Having more powers would have helped ‚Äì although, when you have to deal with frauds, you never know. 9:27:¬†Next question for Mario Draghi: Was the interest rate decision unanimous? Also, what is your take on currency wars? 9:28:¬†Draghi: Decision was unanimous; there were "hints and discussions" about how to improve financial conditions. Draghi says FX fluctuations aren't deliberate, but if they are, it will need to be discussed at the upcoming G20 meeting. 9:32:¬†Final questions. What impact would you expect repayments to have on the Irish bond market? Why did it take so long for an agreement to be reached? 9:34:¬†Draghi: No agreement has been reached; we simply took note. 9:35:¬†Press conference is over. Click here to refresh for LIVE updates &gt;
Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, the founder of $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, has just released 38 pages of questions for Herbalife. There are 284 questions in total. Ackman, who believes Herbalife is a pyramid scheme, is shorting more than 20 million shares of the multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products.¬† After he gave a mammoth 342-slide presentation on his Herbalife short thesis in December, Herbalife hosted an analyst day in January to rebut his claims. "Herbalife management has repeatedly stated its commitment to total transparency, saying that the Company will answer any and all questions about Herbalife, its business model, and its products. In response to this invitation, we have prepared a substantial number of detailed questions, the answers to which should assist the public in understanding Herbalife.¬† We look forward to the Company‚Äôs answers." We're going through the questions and will be featuring some of our favorites on the site.¬† In the meantime, you can view all of¬†Pershing Square's questions here [.PDF] &gt; ValueWalk's Jacob Wolinsky¬†posted the¬†Questions for Herbalife from Bill Ackman¬†on Scribd:¬† 
Legendary trader Paul Tudor Jones is known as a philanthropic man who isn't big on the limelight, so it's not every day that we get reports of what's going on at his Greenwich-based hedge fund, Tudor Investments. However, today Bloomberg reports that two Tudor Investment vets¬†(Allen Chu and Ashwin Ranganathan) are leaving the fund after seven years ‚Äî and what's interesting about that is why. The $11.6 billion hedge fund is moving away trading equities in Asia and moving toward a more macro strategy. Chu and Ashwin aren't the only ones to have left because of this strategy shift either (from Bloomberg): Tudor is looking to hire traders across strategies in the U.S. and U.K., where the fund also experienced departures, one of the people said. U.K.-based macro traders Mary Davis and Christiana Toutet, who worked as a team, left in mid-January after more than four years at Tudor, as did Susan Arnott, an equities trader who joined in 2011, the people said. Michael Georgiou is another macro trader in the U.K. to leave last month, the person said. In 2012 the Tudor BVI returned 6.3 percent last year and 2.2 percent in 2011, a far cry from the 19% average returns PTJ has been getting since 1986. Everything needs a shake-up now and again, and hey ‚Äî who doesn't want to work for a legend?
The euro exchange rate has been on a tear since ECB President Mario Draghi's last press conference in January. Many have been waiting to see how Draghi would respond today. The ECB chief has been reiterating the ECB's accommodative monetary policy stance, and the euro is getting crushed. It fell about 100 pips ‚Äì from around 1.355 against the U.S. dollar to a low around 1.344. FINVIZ Click here to follow Draghi's presser LIVE &gt;
Bloomberg Businessweek, which is known for its amazing magazine covers, currently has a .GIF version for its feature on Snapchat, a photo sharing app that deletes pictures after a few seconds.¬† Check it out: Bloomberg Businessweek
APIn a press release that just came out, hedge funder David Einhorn told shareholders to vote AGAINST a proposal from Apple that would eliminate the company's ability to issue preferred stock that paid a dividend. In the letter he reveals that he's been talking to Apple about doing more to unlock the $137 billion that it holds on its balance sheet. And he believes that by using preferred stock, Apple could get a lot more credit for the cash it holds. This is a frustration of a lot of investors. Apple has all this cash: Why isn't the market valuing it more? Anyway, here's how Einhorn says Apple could create hundreds of billions worth of value in a snap: For example, Apple could initially distribute to existing shareholders $50 billion of perpetual preferred stock, with a 4% annual cash dividend paid quarterly at preferential tax rates. Once a trading market is established and the market recognizes the attractiveness of a highly liquid, steady yielding instrument from an issuer backed by Apple‚Äôs unmatched balance sheet and valuable franchise, the Board could evaluate unlocking additional value by distributing additional perpetual preferred stock to existing shareholders.¬† With this conservative action, Greenlight believes the Board could unlock hundreds of billions of dollars of latent shareholder value. Assuming Apple retains its price to earnings multiple of 10x and the preferred stock yields 4%, our calculations show that every $50 billion of perpetual preferred stock that Apple distributes would unlock about $30 billion, or $32 per share in value.¬† Greenlight believes that Apple has the capacity to ultimately distribute several hundred billion dollars of preferred, which would unlock hundreds of dollars of value per share.¬† Further, Greenlight believes additional value may be realized when Apple‚Äôs price to earnings multiple expands, as the market appreciates a more shareholder friendly capital allocation policy. Einhorn is on CNBC talking about this, and he says that this solution would allow Apple to keep its cash hoard for whatever it wants, while also creating an instrument that monetizes it, creating instant value for shareholders. He describes it as a win-win. Hosts on the show asked him why this couldn't be accomplished just with a big share buyback or higher dividend. Einhorn's suggestion was that that would require Apple to part with more cash instantly than it was comfortable with. He claims that the creation of a special class of shares would create instant value, while also allowing Apple to hold onto most of its cash. Specifically, he said on CNBC when asked why not do buybacks: This is better. This is way better because this doesn't actually require them to use any of the cash¬† right away.¬† They would be able to maintain their cash chest and all of the strategic ideas and at the same time shareholders would be rewarded with something that gives them credit for Apple's phenomenal balance sheet and franchise value. Bear in mind, this idea only works if you believe that current equity investors aren't properly valuing the cash. If you think current equity does properly take the cash into account, then just moving this cash towards preferred stock doesn't do anything. You can't create money out of nothing. On CNBC he says that he's more long Apple than he ever has been before. More broadly, it's remarkable that Apple, which was once an invincible high-flyer, is now being targeted by angry hedge funders. Read Einhorn's full press release here &gt;
Hedge funder and Apple investor David Einhorn is out with an interesting press releas urging investors to vote 'NO' on a proposal from Apple to eliminate the company's ability to issue preferred stock. ---------------------------- GREENLIGHT CAPITAL URGES APPLE SHAREHOLDERS TO OPPOSE COMPANYíS  PROPOSAL THAT WOULD IMPEDE APPLEíS ABILITY TO UNLOCK SHAREHOLDER VALUE † Recommends Vote AGAINST Proposal 2 Which Eliminates Companyís  Ability To Issue Preferred Stock † Shareholder Since 2010, Greenlight Remains Long Apple † NEW YORK ñ February 7, 2013 ñ Greenlight Capital, Inc. (ìGreenlightî), a value oriented, research-driven investment management firm, today announced that it is urging fellow shareholders of Apple Inc. (NasdaqGS: AAPL) (ìAppleî or the ìCompanyî) to oppose the Companyís attempt to amend its corporate charter.† Greenlight is voting AGAINST Proposal 2 in Appleís proxy, which would eliminate preferred stock from Appleís charter and thus restrict the Boardís ability to unlock the value on Appleís balance sheet.† Greenlight is asking all shareholders to also vote AGAINST Proposal 2 at the upcoming Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on February 27, 2013.† † A shareholder since 2010, Greenlight believes Apple is a phenomenal company filled with talented people creating iconic products that consumers around the world love.† However, like many other shareholders, Greenlight is dissatisfied with Appleís capital allocation strategy.† Greenlight believes that the amendment to Appleís charter in Proposal 2 unnecessarily limits the Boardís flexibility to distribute preferred stock as a means of unlocking shareholder value.† As such, Proposal 2 does not merit shareholder support. † ìWe believe Apple must examine all of its options to unlock the growing value of its balance sheet for all shareholders,î said David Einhorn, President of Greenlight.† ìOver the past several months, we have had an ongoing dialogue with Apple regarding one option to do so, namely the creation of a new security, a perpetual preferred stock that would be distributed at no cost to Appleís existing shareholders, and would provide an attractive, sustainable dividend while preserving Appleís financial resources to pursue its business strategy.î † Greenlight first described the concept at a May 2012 investment conference, where Mr. Einhorn demonstrated that Apple could unlock several hundred billion dollars of shareholder value by distributing, to existing shareholders, a perpetual preferred stock.†† Since May, Greenlight has had discussions with Apple on this value creation idea, but Apple rejected it outright in September 2012.† † Greenlight believes that Appleís proposal to eliminate preferred stock from its charter is an unprecedented action to curtail the Boardís options.† Greenlight is not aware of any other company that has ever taken this step voluntarily.† Greenlight remains convinced that the issuance of perpetual preferred stock is a viable option for improving Appleís unsatisfactory capital allocation policy.† † Yesterday, in response to Greenlight notifying Apple that it intended to contest Proposal 2, management offered to re-evaluate Greenlightís idea, but refused to withdraw the charter amendment to eliminate preferred stock.† Greenlight is hopeful that when Apple and its advisers review the idea afresh, it will see the merits and act to unlock value for all shareholders. † Nonetheless, Greenlight believes that eliminating preferred stock from the Companyís charter hinders Appleís ability to implement value creating options.†† Mr. Einhorn continued, ìApple should unlock shareholder value through the distribution of perpetual preferred stock.† We ask shareholders to vote against Proposal 2, thereby expressing to Apple and its Board their support for unlocking value and significantly improving Appleís current capital allocation policy.î † Proposal 2 actually contains three distinct corporate governance proposals that Greenlight believes need to be unbundled and voted on separately as required by Securities and Exchange Commission rules.† Yesterday, the Company informed Greenlight that Apple would not unbundle the proposals.† Accordingly, Greenlight today initiated a legal action in the U.S. Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to have the Company conform Proposal 2 to the SEC rules. † Greenlight today issued the following letter to Apple shareholders: † February 7, 2013 † VOTE AGAINST PROPOSAL 2 AT THE FEBRUARY 27 ANNUAL MEETING  TO PROTECT YOUR INVESTMENT IN APPLE † Oppose Appleís Effort To Restrict The Companyís Ability To Unlock Substantial Shareholder Value † Dear Fellow Apple Shareholder, † Greenlight Capital, Inc. (and affiliates, ìGreenlightî) has been a significant shareholder of Apple Inc. (ìAppleî or the ìCompanyî) since 2010.† We believe Apple is a phenomenal company filled with talented people creating iconic products that consumers around the world love.† We are long-term shareholders of Apple. † However, like many other shareholders, Greenlight is dissatisfied with Appleís capital allocation strategy.† The combination of Appleís low (and shrinking) price to earnings multiple and $137 billion (and growing) hoard of cash on the balance sheet supports Greenlightís contention that Apple has an obligation to examine all options to create and unlock additional value.† † We understand that many of our fellow shareholders share our frustration with Appleís capital allocation policies.† Apple has $145 per share of cash on its balance sheet.† As a shareholder, this is your money.† Though Apple recently commenced paying a common dividend and initiated a nominal share repurchase program, we believe that there is much more that the Board should do for shareholders.† We believe that it is important for shareholders to send Appleís Board the message that the current capital allocation policy is not satisfactory, and that after considering all options, Appleís Board should act to unlock the latent value of Appleís balance sheet and franchise.† If you share our frustration, please join us in blocking the Companyís effort to restrict its value creation options by voting AGAINST Appleís plan to amend its corporate charter in Proposal 2 to eliminate preferred stock. † Send Apple And Its Board A Message That We Want Apple To Change Its Capital Allocation  Policy To Unlock Value For Shareholders ñ VOTE AGAINST PROPOSAL 2 † At a May 2012 investment conference, Greenlight introduced the idea that Apple could unlock several hundred billion dollars of shareholder value by distributing to existing shareholders a perpetual preferred stock.†† † Since then, Greenlight has had discussions with Apple encouraging the Company to distribute perpetual preferred stock as an innovative method of rewarding all shareholders for the Companyís strong balance sheet and substantial cash flows.† Put plainly, Greenlight is encouraging Apple to distribute a perpetual, high-yielding preferred stock directly to shareholders at no cost.† This would enable shareholders to own and separately trade the new preferred shares and Appleís existing common shares.† Importantly, Greenlight believes these preferred shares represent a simple, low-risk way to reward shareholders without compromising the financial and strategic flexibility of the Company, or forcing the company to incur tax on repatriating its offshore cash balances.† † Greenlight suggested an initial preferred share distribution, whereby dividends could be funded on an ongoing basis by a relatively small percentage of the Companyís operating cash flow.† Apple rejected the idea outright in September 2012.† Yesterday, after Greenlight notified Apple of its intention to vote against Proposal 2, Apple said it would reconsider the idea, but refused to withdraw the proxy provision where Apple seeks to eliminate preferred stock from its charter. † The recent, severe under-performance of Appleís shares, which are down approximately 35% from their peak valuation, underscores the need for the Company to apply the same level of creativity used to develop revolutionary technology for its consumers to unlock the value of its strong balance sheet for its shareholders.† † We believe our suggestion of distributing perpetual preferred stock, while innovative, is also quite simple.† Apple could distribute high-yielding, tax efficient preferred stock to existing shareholders at no cost.† This new type of easily tradable preferred security would allow Apple to take advantage of the marketís appetite for yield while preserving future operating and strategic flexibility.† Importantly, we believe this strategy would require no immediate use of cash other than the ongoing dividend, and would not pose any maturity, re-financing, balance sheet, or default risk. † For example, Apple could initially distribute to existing shareholders $50 billion of perpetual preferred stock, with a 4% annual cash dividend paid quarterly at preferential tax rates. Once a trading market is established and the market recognizes the attractiveness of a highly liquid, steady yielding instrument from an issuer backed by Appleís unmatched balance sheet and valuable franchise, the Board could evaluate unlocking additional value by distributing additional perpetual preferred stock to existing shareholders.† With this conservative action, Greenlight believes the Board could unlock hundreds of billions of dollars of latent shareholder value. † Assuming Apple retains its price to earnings multiple of 10x and the preferred stock yields 4%, our calculations show that every $50 billion of perpetual preferred stock that Apple distributes would unlock about $30 billion, or $32 per share in value.† Greenlight believes that Apple has the capacity to ultimately distribute several hundred billion dollars of preferred, which would unlock hundreds of dollars of value per share.† Further, Greenlight believes additional value may be realized when Appleís price to earnings multiple expands, as the market appreciates a more shareholder friendly capital allocation policy.† † Appleís Attempt To Remove A Potential Means Of Value Creation  Should Concern ALL Shareholders † As holders of more than 1.3 million Apple shares, Greenlight is alarmed that Apple is attempting to eliminate preferred stock from its corporate charter, hindering its ability to unlock value for shareholders.† This is an unprecedented action to curtail the Companyís options.† We are not aware of any other company that has ever voluntarily taken this step.† Furthermore, over 90% of the S&amp;P 500 companies have the flexibility to issue similar preferred shares. † Apple is attempting to package this provision with two positive corporate governance reforms that we would normally support.† Apple is asking shareholders to approve or disapprove of all three changes in a single bundled vote.† † We believe that the Securities and Exchange Commission (ìSECî) proxy rules require that Apple provide for a separate vote on each matter presented to its shareholders for approval at the shareholder meeting.† This ëunbundlingí rule is designed to permit shareholders to express their vote on each individual matter and to not be forced to vote on a combined package of items.† This prevents companies from forcing shareholders to approve matters that they might not vote for if presented independently.† † In our view, Appleís Proposal No. 2 violates the SECís ëunbundlingí rule because it ties together three separate matters (majority voting for directors, elimination of preferred stock, and establishing a par value for the Companyís common stock) into one proposal.† Apple should be required to unbundle these items into separate proposals to allow the shareholders to make an independent choice on each matter.† Accordingly, Greenlight has initiated a legal action in the U.S. Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to have the Company unbundle the various components of Proposal 2 so that shareholders can rightfully vote on each individual provision as mandated by SEC rules. † We cannot support the two desirable governance reforms at the expense of limiting Appleís ability to potentially unlock hundreds of billions of dollars of shareholder value.† Importantly, in its current form, voting AGAINST Proposal 2 does not affect the ëmajority votingí reform in the short-term, as Board members have already agreed to resign from the Board if they fail to receive a majority of votes cast ìforî their election.† As a result, we will vote AGAINST Proposal 2 in Appleís proxy and we urge you to vote AGAINST the proposal, as well. † Proposal 2 Is Value Destructive, Impedes The Boardís Flexibility,  And Does Not Merit Shareholder Support † Your vote is extremely important, regardless of how many shares you own.† Apple shareholders of record as of January 2, 2013 are entitled to vote at the annual meeting.† Proposal 2 requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares.† If you were an Apple shareholder on the record date, you can still vote AGAINST Proposal 2, even if you already voted your shares.† † Greenlight is not asking for your proxy card, so please do not send us your proxy card.† If your Apple shares are held in your own name, please vote AGAINST Proposal 2.† If you hold your Apple shares in ìstreet nameî with a bank, brokerage firm, dealer, trust company or other nominee, only they can exercise your right to vote with respect to your shares and only after receiving your specific instructions.† IT IS CRITICAL THAT YOU PROMPTLY GIVE INSTRUCTIONS TO YOUR BANK, BROKERAGE FIRM, DEALER, TRUST COMPANY OR OTHER NOMINEE TO VOTE ìAGAINSTî PROPOSAL 2.† If you have any questions about voting your Apple shares, please call our proxy solicitor, D.F. King &amp; Co., Inc., toll-free at (800) 949-2583 (banks and brokerage firms should call (212) 269-5550), or email apple@dfking.com. † Thank you for your consideration and support.† † Sincerely, † David Einhorn Greenlight Capital
 Weekly initial jobless claims fell to 366K this week. That's a bit worse than expectations of 360K. It's down a bit from last week's upwardly revised 371K. All pretty much right in line and won't move markets much. The number has been very volatile of late.
BloombergIncoming Bank of England Governor Mark Carney is delivering a three-hour testimony before Britain's Treasury Committee this morning. Carney's name has been associated with nominal GDP targeting ñ arguably the hottest idea in monetary policy right now, but something that has yet to be taken up by a major central bank. In a speech in December, Carney talked up the concept, saying it "could in many respects be more powerful than employing thresholds under flexible inflation targeting," the latter of which is basically what is being employed by the Bank of England at present. At today's testimony, Carney said that flexible inflation targeting was the best monetary policy in existence, and the bar for changing the inflation target is high. He also said there was some merit to considering "Fed-style" guidance at the Bank of England. However, when asked to address nominal GDP targeting, Carney said that the policy had advantages "in theory" at the zero lower bound, but that he remained "far from convinced" that moving to a nominal GDP target is the right thing to do. Carney even said that an economy in the U.K. economy's current position is where a nominal GDP target would work best, but qualified that by highlighting the need for the population to understand what the central bank is doing with nominal GDP targeting in order for it to work. To conclude, Carney said flexible inflation targeting remains a superior alternative to nominal GDP targeting. The WSJ's Simon Nixon summed it up best in a tweet: So Carney has knocked NGDP targeting on the head. Baffled why he ever let himself become associated with it.
Robert Shiller, the Yale economist who nailed the housing bubble before it burst, was on Bloomberg Television with Trish Regan and Adam Johnson on Wednesday afternoon to discuss the U.S. housing market. As usual, Shiller was reluctant to declare that home prices had bottomed. He explained that the¬† housing market is a speculative one and that there's no telling which way prices would go tomorrow. He also explained that there wasn't much reason to believe that home prices would appreciate back to levels seen during the last cycle. Regan followed up with a question that got Shiller perked up. "Then why buy a home?" she asked. "People trap their savings in a home. They're running an opportunity cost of not having that money liquid to earn a better return in the market. Why do it?" "Absolutely!" Shiller exclaimed. "Housing traditionally is not viewed as a great investment. It takes maintenance, it depreciates, it goes out of style. All of those are problems. And there's technical progress in housing. So, new ones are better." These were some of the issues Shiller addressed in his classic book, "Irrational Exuberance." He continued. "So, why was it considered an investment? That was a fad. That was an idea that took hold in the early 2000's. And I don't expect it to come back. Not with the same force. So people might just decide, "Yeah, I'll diversify my portfolio. I'll live in a rental." That is a very sensible thing for many people to do." Adam Johnson also noted that this was in line with Shiller's assessment that real U.S. home price appreciation from 1890 to 1990 was just about 0 percent. This is explained by the falling costs of construction and labor. For people who can't wrap their heads around this, Shiller offers an analogy. "If you think investing in housing is such a great idea, why not invest in cars?" he asked. "Buy a car, mothball it, and sell it in 20 years. Obviously not a good idea because people won't want our cars. It's the same with our houses. So, they're not really an investment vehicle." Any homeowner knows that you can't sell a home with 30-year-old roofing, carpet, and kitchen appliances. Sure, the home price might go up, but you have to adjust for years of maintenance and renovations. Watch the whole interview here:

APGood morning. Today is all about European monetary policy ‚Äì here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Mark Carney is testifying in England this morning, as he prepares to assume his role as head of the Bank of England. He has submitted a 45 page Q&amp;A, which you can download here, and it's full of interesting stuff on monetary policy, banking, and so forth. One big issue that stands before him is the sorry state of the UK economy, which hasn't grown in 2 years, and which could be entering a triple dip. In his Q&amp;A Carney steps back and looks at some of the bigger challenges facing the country, and in it he presents this great chart, which shows the relative collapse of the UK export industry. Mark Carney
From Morgan Stanley, a full debate on Japan -- which has one of the hottest markets in the world -- in one huge slide. Morgan Stanley
CPSL via VimeoBack in November, famed investor Jeremy Grantham came out with a note basically predicting that there would not be any strong growth for decades to come due to population, resource, and climate constraints. In a new note that came out yesterday, Grantham elaborates a bit, and basically boils the argument down to a few paragraphs. Here are the key paragraphs in his note. First he talks about why increased resource costs are going to be a headwind. With a few months to reconsider the data, old and new, I would have framed last quarter‚Äôs issue on declining growth differently to emphasize how routine, even friendly, most of our inputs were. The main new point I wanted to make was that resource costs are treated like GDP increases. Hence, prior to 2002, steadily falling resource costs were treated as a debit when of course steadily lower costs were a great help to well-being and utility. We calculated that adjusted GDP actually grew 0.2% a year faster than stated. Conversely, since 2000, rising costs were a detriment, not a benefit, as shown in GDP. Treated correctly as a negative, resource costs would have reduced real growth by 0.4% a year. This squeeze on growth will continue as long as resource costs rise faster than the growth rate of the balance of the economy. Further, as the percentage of the GDP taken up by resources has recently more than doubled (2002 to 2012), the squeeze on the balance of the economy would also be doubled even if the rate of cost increases stayed constant. Last quarter I estimated that continued increases in resource costs from now to 2050 would lower GDP growth by 0.5%. To prevent that 0.5% effect from accelerating as the share of resources in GDP rises, the rate of resource cost increases must decelerate from the recent 7% a year to a much more modest 2% a year by 2050. (By then, of course, it might well be over the current 7% ‚Ä¶ it is just not knowable.) As one can see, this is not nearly as draconian an assumption as it might initially appear to be and in this context it is worth remembering that we don‚Äôt really know what caused resource prices to spike from 2002 to 2008 so impressively. This was a much bigger price surge than occurred during World War II! Indeed, it may easily turn out that the resource price rises will squeeze future GDP growth substantially more than our estimates. He then throws in climate as a bigger problem down the road (Grantham is very concerned about the environment). Although our low estimate of future GDP growth attracted attention and plenty of opposition, it was only produced as a necessary backdrop to show the potential significance of our two new points: the large deduction for a cost squeeze from resources (0.5%) and a very slight but increasing squeeze from climate damage (0.1 rising to 0.4 after 2030), which latter deduction is considered almost ludicrously conservative by that handful of economists that study the costs of climate change. Our work on the traditional aspects of GDP growth was approached by us as a necessary chore; we were not looking for trouble. Consequently, we tried to keep it simple by using the obvious data sources. Then he goes into population and productivity: ‚ÄúWhere on earth did GMO get its pessimistic population data?‚Äù ran one complaint. Well, would you believe the U.S. Bureau of Census? And as for productivity, we extended the 1.3% average for the last 30 years out for 30 more years. This is clearly a very friendly assumption given: a) the recent 1.3% in productivity growth of the last 30 years had declined a lot from its 40-year surge of 1.8% after World War II; and b) the fact that the segment of much higher productivity ‚Äì manufacturing ‚Äì has declined to a mere 9% of total labor from 19% in 1980 and continues to decline. Even my one override, -0.2% a year for the next 18 years as a result of much-reduced capital spending, seems, based on econometric modeling, to be a very modest debit. For there to be so modest a negative effect needs capital spending to drift back toward normal in the relatively near future. And even then this -0.2% effect was exactly offset in our forecast by a +0.2% bonus for the unanticipated surge in fracking activity and the ensuing burst of momentarily cheap energy. So why the fuss? The resource debit merely reflects the remarkably odd GDP accounting that counts an unfortunate surge in necessary costs as a benefit, and the remaining 1.5% is merely reflecting recent data. Higher growth assumption, Mr. Bernanke should be aware, must prove longer-term improvements in productivity or, tougher yet, increased labor input. In his note he adds a long paragraph about why it's so worrisome that the Fed hasn't adjusted to the realities of lower growth. Basically he argues that the Fed will blow more bubbles, thinking that the economy can be revved to a higher level than it actually can be: This doesn‚Äôt really fit in with a quarterly letter emphasizing important good news, but being about the Fed, I have to make an exception. The Fed appears to be still assuming a 3% growth rate for future U.S. GDP. It would be safer and more confidence-inspiring, now that Bernanke appears to take his responsibility for growth seriously, that he at least have a reasonable growth target (preposterous as that notion is to me that the Fed should or even could affect long-term growth simply by messing about with interest rates). The growth in available man-hours has definitely declined by about 1% a year, yet Bernanke‚Äôs assumption for our GDP‚Äôs normal trend growth appears unchanged at its old 3%. Ergo, he must be assuming an offsetting rise of 1% in productivity. But why? We should treat these assumptions quite seriously for this is famously (for me) and painfully (for all of us) the man who could not see a 3¬æ-standard-deviation housing market, and indeed protested that all was normal, etc., etc., etc. (Dear handful of niggling readers, this 3¬æ-standard-deviation event is calculated on the assumption of a normal distribution, as is often done in investing, even though we [especially at GMO] know this is not true but is just a convenient statistical device. In fact, we at GMO know quite a bit more on this topic for we have studied more or less all assets for as long as we can find data and we have found a remarkable total of 330 ‚Äúbubbles,‚Äù 36 of which we call ‚Äúmajor, important bubbles,‚Äù which we define as 2-standard-deviation events, given the same assumption. Well, a 2-sigma event should occur every 44 years in a normally distributed world and they have occurred every 31 years. This is much closer to random than we had previously thought. Yes, financial asset data is fat-tailed; that is, there are more outlying events than are found in a normally distributed series, but they are not extremely fat-tailed. They show up as 2-sigma events but occur as often as 1.8-sigma events would occur in normal distributions. Extrapolating, we can assume that Bernanke‚Äôs 3¬æ-sigma housing bubble would occur, adjusted for our fat-tailed real-life history, not every 10,000 years, but somewhere more like 1 in 5,000 years! I previously used ‚Äúa 1-in-1,200-year event‚Äù as a casually selected very large number to describe the 2006 housing bubble. But under challenge, these current numbers are more accurate. No, this does not mean we have 10,000 years of data or even 5,000. It is just statistics, full as always of assumptions, which in this case we hope approach rough justice. What it does definitely mean, though, is that it was extraordinarily unlikely that the extremely diversified U.S. housing market would shoot up like it did and, frankly, even more remarkable that Bernanke and his timid or incompetent advisors could miss it. This is a doubly amazing miss because his and Greenspan‚Äôs policy caused this bubble in the first place!) In comparison, his willingness to target an unrealistic 3% level for GDP growth is statistically a microscopic error, a picayune mistake. Unfortunately, though, in the hands of probably the most influential man in the global economic world, it is an extremely dangerous one. I like the analogy of the Fed beating a donkey (the 1% growing economy) for not being a horse (his 3% growing economy). I assume he keeps beating it until it either turns into a horse or drops dead from too much beating! Fine-tuning economic growth, an impossible job for the Fed anyway, is hardly likely to get any easier by badly overstating trend-line growth. It seems nearly certain, therefore, that the Fed will keep trying to whack the donkey for far too long. The likely consequences of this policy are, to be frank, over my head, but my colleague Edward Chancellor will address them briefly if I can nag him effectively. Read the whole letter at GMO.com -- &gt;
ECBThe press conferences following the European Central Bank's monthly monetary policy decisions have been pretty uneventful as of late. On every first or second Thursday of the month, ECB President Mario Draghi is happy to remind reporters at the ECB press conference just how in control of European sovereign debt markets the central bank is. There have been no policy changes since August, when the ECB introduced its "OMT" bond market intervention program, which has convinced investors to buy Spanish and Italian bonds, sending funding costs for those countries to lower, more manageable levels. "I think weíve shown how to do it. And, basically, markets understood," Draghi told reporters in January regarding ECB monetary policy. Yet the game has changed in the 28 days since the ECB's last meeting, and Draghi's press conference Thursday should be pretty interesting for the first time in a while. There are two major items Draghi will need to address. The first issue concerns the dramatic market movements we've seen in Europe since the January meeting. The euro has jumped approximately 3.6 percent against the U.S. dollar and 9.5 percent against the dramatically-weakening Japanese yen since the January meeting. Many economists are concerned that this is a negative development for the euro area, which is already struggling to be competitive in global export markets. ECBThe euro's move higher was initially spurred by Draghi's own words at the January press conference, when he told reporters that there were no requests on the ECB Governing Council to cut interest rates further ñ this after a lively discussion on cutting interest rates the month before. Markets took this as a sign of a possible shift toward a tighter monetary policy stance inside the central bank. Since then, it's been driven higher by a few factors. For starters, the yen continues to weaken rapidly. Second, troubled banks in the European periphery who took super-cheap loans ñ known as "LTROs" ñ from the ECB during the height of the euro crisis are now, for the first time, able to pay them back. Those banks jumped at the opportunity to repay the loans, and it's been mostly received as a positive sign that bank funding markets in the euro-area periphery, or the "non-core euro zone," are being repaired and investor confidence is returning. Citi rates strategists, however, suggest that the situation is just the opposite. In a note to clients, they write: Peripheral banks on the other hand remain in need of the liquidity (as are their economies). Our economists are not at all confident that non-core banks would be able to fund themselves sufficiently cheaply without the ECB, not least because it accepts such a wide-range of collateral. However, these banks are eager to demonstrate their health by repaying. The obvious inference is that non-core banks judge the reputational risk of not repaying as greater than the risk of using shorter term sources of ECB funding (1- week, 1-month, and 3-month refinancing operations) if required. However, we have been surprised not to have seen this shorter funding taken up, e.g., the 3m LTRO, so far. Whether this is understandable bravado, or a deliberate calculation that a strong gesture will pay off via improve funding conditions is uncertain. What is more certain is that to the extent that liquidity is required, this is not a cost free exercise. It is extremely unlikely that banks can replace ECB funding at 75bps with anything cheaper (especially if unsecured). So, it will be important to gauge Draghi's reaction to the LTRO repayments. In a recent note to clients on Europe titled "Now We're Getting Worried," Morgan Stanley rates strategist Laurence Mutkin argued that the rise in short-term and safe-haven interest rates that have accompanied the risk rally in Europe is not a positive development. Thus, Draghi's reaction is crucial, says Mutkin, who wrote: In the near term, therefore, much depends on how ECB president Draghi responds to the recent rise in EONIA forwards at next weekís Press Conference. Our economists doubt heíll lean heavily against the rise in rates, but we hope he'll avoid the mistake his predecessor made in blithely characterizing the rise in EONIAs after the 1y LTROsí expiry in 2010 as being no more than evidence of the improving health of the banks. All of this is why Thursday, as in January, Draghi will once again have a chance to move markets with his words. The second issue is political: the derivatives scandal that has one of Italy's biggest banks in need of a bailout and regulatory authorities under fire right in the final weeks of the Italian national election. Monte dei PaschiThe bank, Monte dei Paschi, is under the supervision of the Bank of Italy, which Draghi headed from 2006-2011, when the alleged derivatives improprieties took place. Reuters reported Monday that Draghi was indeed informed of doubts over Monte dei Paschi while at the Bank of Italy. However, the source that provided this information also told Reuters that it wasn't Draghi's responsibility. The source told Reuters: "The inspectors are the only people responsible for initiating a sanctions procedure so if they don't find anything in the course of their inspection then it's not possible for the top management to start the process." Nonetheless, Draghi will undoubtedly face questions regarding the Monte dei Paschi scandal, and given the bank's association with the Italian left and the timing, just weeks before the election, it should be an interesting conversation. So, today's ECB press conference could provide the first excitement from the central bank we've seen in quite a while.
Via KTLA, @nycsouthpaw, and @lock, a high-speed chase in LA ended in a massive ball of flames last night. Thankfully the driver was rescued. KTLA 
Bloomberg TVThis is a really solid note on the latest in Europe from Jefferies economist David Zervos. Basically his message is: Relax. Europe has tried to stage a comeback as a "risk-off" force in the global markets after essentially losing all its relevance in the last 3 to 6 months. Somehow, with Italian 2 year yields at 1.60%, I cannot get very excited about the prospects of Europe staying in the "doom and gloom" limelight for very long. Of course the Berlusconi poll surge, the Rajoy cookie jar scandal and the Hollande call for a "stable" (read weaker) Euro currency policy are unsettling - but this is Europe after all, crazy stuff happens all the time.† The reality is that the ECB balance sheet is firmly in place as a back stop - it really doesn't matter what a bunch of cacophonous politicians do on the fringe. We all own the Draghi put (without having to pay any theta), and we have to trade like its a line item in our books. As for what this means for Mario Draghi's press conference coming up later today, expect a dovish bent to his words. ...assume Mario tries to talk down BOTH funding rates and the Euro. He will likely highlight the risks of further economic deterioration and will not give the doomers any gasoline to throw on this little European risk-off fire. And with some calmer words in the press conference, we should snuff out any Europe induced risk-off fears. Sounds good. Find more Zervos at Markit Hub &gt;
AmazonEarly heads up that two of our favorite pieces of economic data are coming out today. Via Calculated Risk: ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM ET, The initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for claims to decrease to 360 thousand from 368 thousand last week. The 4-week average could fall to the lowest level since early 2008.¬† ‚Ä¢ At 3:00 PM, Consumer Credit for December from the Federal Reserve. The consensus is for credit to increase $14.5 billion in December. Initial weekly unemployment claims we love because it tends to be a great barometer of the economy in real time. It has a record of aligning nicely with stocks, thus helping to demonstrate that financial market moves are generally based in real economic activity. Consumer Credit gets to the heart of the economic slump and the recovery: Where households are in the deleveraging cycle. Consumer Credit isn't as real time, but the bigger implications are deeper.
Shanna Mari / FlickrGood morning. US futures are basically flat. Markets in Europe are generally higher. Italy is up by 0.6%. Ireland is up by 0.3%. Spain is up by 0.7%. Germany is flat. It's a big day for Central Banking. In a little bit, incoming Bank of England chief will be testifying before a committee. Later on, we'll have a big press conference from Mario Draghi at the ECB, where he may talk about the raft of issues that have come up. Should be a fun one.
