flickr / Steve SnodgrassFollowing a big sell-off in U.S. stocks on Thursday, markets in Asia continue to head lower in early trading Friday. Right now, the Japanese Nikkei 225 is down 1.3%,while the Hong Kong Hang Seng and the Shanghai Composite are both down 0.7%. The Australian S&amp;P/ASX 200 is down 0.8%. There are no major data releases in Asia Friday. The only notable release in the eurozone is euro area-wide consumer price inflation, out at 4 AM ET. U.S. housing starts and building permits are out at 8:30, and the latest University of Michigan consumer confidence reading is released at 9:55. Gold continues to trade higher after posting big gains Thursday. Right now, the shiny yellow metal is up 0.4% from Thursday's close, trading at $1366 an ounce. S&amp;P 500 futures are currently flat. The index has closed down in seven of the past nine trading sessions.
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. 3 Things To Consider When Making Asset Allocation Decisions Based On Stock Valuation (Rick Ferri) There are three things one should keep in mind when making decisions on asset allocation based on stock valuation. "cash flow needs, time horizon, and valuation itself."¬† "Cash flow need is the amount of money to be withdrawn from portfolio at some future time horizon. If a person is within 10 years of retirement, and they plan to withdraw 3% or more from their portfolio each year to pay living expenses, then an asset allocation change may be in order when the market P/PeakE is above its historic average as it is today. "Even if an investor is approaching retirement and has enough to live off, there may not be a need to make an asset allocation change. If there is no need to withdraw money from a portfolio during retirement because other sources of income are available, or if the amount of money to be withdrawn is low, perhaps equal to or less than the current 2% dividend yield on stocks, then there is no reason to rush an allocation change when stocks are when the market is trading at slightly above average as it is today... Here is where the level of valuation makes a difference." 7 Secrets To Successful Advisor Partnerships (The Wall Street Journal) Norb Vonnegut has been in three advisor partnerships over 12 years. And he recently spoke with Alex Williams and Peter Rukeyser two advisors at UBS that have partnered for 18 years. Drawing on his own experience and theirs he identifies seven secrets to a successful partnership in a new WSJ column. 1. "Shared values and common investment philosophy." 2. "Clear account-management responsibility. One person must lead each relationship. Otherwise, client service gives way to endless group discussions..." 3. "Love of the markets." 4. "Continuous improvement." 5. "Feedback. Healthy teams debrief often and with client-centric objectivity." 6. "True partners split everything equally and avoid the temptation to negotiate separate splits for specific clients." 7. "Conflict resolution." Gold Demand Is Evaporating (World Gold Council) Total demand for gold has fallen to its lowest level in four years, according to a new World Gold Council Report. This has been led by a decline in investment gold demand. Business Insider Jeff Gundlach's DoubleLine Prepares To Launch Fund Based On Shiller's P/E (Investment News) Jeff Gundlach's DoubleLine Capital is planning to launch an index fund based on Robert Shller's cyclically adjusted price/earnings ratio (CAPE) metric. "The DoubleLine Shiller Enhanced CAPE Fund will use derivatives ‚Äî either swaps or futures contracts ‚Äî to track the Shiller Barclays U.S. Sector Total Return Index, which invests equally in the four most undervalued U.S. stock sectors based on their CAPE ratio and their price momentum over the past 12 months," reports Investment News.
REUTERS/Danny MoloshokBaseball star turned celebrity investor turned inmate Lenny Dykstra left prison in June¬†and is back in the autograph game. So if you can make it out to White Plains, New York tomorrow, "Nails" will sign "anything" for $25, Dealbreaker dug up. As a refresher, Dykstra got into trading and became something of a celebrity stock picker after leaving baseball. He started "Players Club," a magazine geared toward high-minded jocks. The failed enterprise took him under, and he filed for bankruptcy His home¬†‚Äî once¬†Wayne Gretzky's¬†$17.5 million mansion¬†‚Äî went to auction. The ex-Mets star ended up serving 15 months of a three-year sentence for grand theft auto and hiding baseball gloves and other items from his basebally days that were absent from his¬†bankruptcy filing. But now he's a free man.
REUTERS/Mike Segar We got another day in the red after so-so economic data this morning. First the scoreboard: S&amp;P500:†1,661.32, -24.07, -1.43%Dow:†15,112.27,-225.39,-1.47%NASDAQ:†3,606.12, -63.16, -1.72% And now, the top stories:
If you thought so-called 'September Angst' was the only thing you had to worry about next month, check out the chart below. It shows the composite S&amp;P's cycle going back over every 4-year Presidential term since 1928. As you can see, around September, during the first year of a new Presidential term, things get ugly. This comes to us from Eagle Bay Capital market technician JC Parets, on his blog All Star Charts ó so don't shoot the messenger.                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Markets                                            Charts                                            S&amp;P 500                                            Presidents                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						1									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        The Market's About To Enter Its Crappiest Time Period During A Four-Year Presidential Term    The Market's About To Enter Its Crappiest Time Period During A Four-Year Presidential Term        Eck.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange May 7, 2012.It's been a rough day and there's no sign it's easing up. The Dow is now off -1.37% to 15,127. The S&amp;P500 is down -1.35% to 1662. And the NASDAQ has lost -1.60% to 3,610. Meanwhile, gold continues to surge, up 2.41% to $1,365/oz. Oil prices continue are getting support from Middle East unrest, with Brent futures up¬†0.66% to $109.54 and WTI 0.43% to $107.31. The Obama administration canceled joint exercises with Egypt's military as the death toll climbed to 525 in clashes between the government and pro-Mohamed Morsi supporters. Europe already ended the day in a sea of red, led by London's FTSE closing down -1.7%.¬†
Courtesy of DeBraggaDeBragga President Marc Sarrazin (left) and COO George Faison (right)There's been a lot of debate about the benefits of a lean, 'grass fed' cut of meat vs. your 'grain fed' meat ó and it's gotten a lot of steak aficionados and butchers, like superstar Pat Alfreda, pretty riled up. But one of New York's most prominent butchers, George Faison, says the grass fed vs. grain fed debate on beef is just semantics. The real, and more dangerous issue is about how meat is labeled, and how Americans are led to believe it's raised. Faison is the Chief Operating Officer of DeBragga, "New York's Butcher." You can find his meat in some of New York City's hottest restaurants, like The Mercer Kitchen, Tao, and Tom Colicchio's Craft. Business Insider caught up with him over the phone while he was in Upstate New York checking out the farms where DeBragga sources its meat. The debate on "grass fed" beef is really about how the meat is "finished" Faison explained, it's about the last few months of an animal's life ó maybe the last year and a half if it's Wagyu beef. And when you're talking about such a short amount of time, you can't just think about the grass that's being eaten, he argued, you have to think about the environmental impact of the petroleum that's used to power farming equipment (like tractors and turbines) and the cost of shipping grain around the country. "The (grass fed v. grain fed) debate is ongoing," he said, "but it's very obvious we can't be unmindful of the true cost of grass fed beef." What's worse about the argument, though, is that it takes away from the most important debate about meat in our country ó naturally raised (grain or grass fed) meat versus "commodity produced" proteins of any kind. We're talking about big farming here. To Faison, it all starts in the labeling ó the information that's getting to the public. For example, chicken and pork can be slapped with 'no hormone added' labels even if the animals have been fed anti-biotics their entire lives in order to survive the cramped conditions of industrial production. That's a practice called "sub-therapeutic administration." Farmers administer these anti-biotics as they know animals will get sick because of how they're raised. That is how it has come to be that 70 percent of all antibiotics in this country are given to animals, according to NYT Food writer, Mark Bittman. You can imagine the pharmaceutical industry is happy with that one. Then there's the fact that the word "natural" appears on most beef or poultry labels, but according to regulation, the only stipulation for slapping that word on a package of meat is that the animal was not given any chemicals at the time of slaughter. Anything before that is a non-issue. "I consider that government sanctioned fraud," said Faison. "People aren't getting the information they need to make the decisions they want to make." And that's bigger than a little bit of grass.
NEW YORK, New York. Nov. 27-28, 2012. Photograph by Michael Seto.IGNITION 2012IGNITION: Future of Digital¬†is quickly approaching. Extra-Early-Bird rates are expiring Friday, August 16th at 11:59 p.m., so get your tickets now! ¬† New to IGNITION this year, Business Insider is adding a kick-off day to take a deep dive into which brands, publishers, and agencies are using mobile and social to engage consumers effectively. We'll talk new technologies, measurement, mobile advertising, ROI and much more. Throughout the course of the three days we will explore the explosive future of digital business. Join us to hear from: For a taste of what you can expect in November, check out the latest IGNITION 2013 line-up, or the full agendas from our previous events. And reserve your spot now because extra-early-bird rates expire this week.  P.S. If you're interested in sponsorship opportunities at IGNITION, contact¬†events@businessinsider.com. Follow¬†@BI_Events¬†on Twitter for IGNITION updates.
We recently had our our co-workers try Herbalife's Formula 1 shake for the first time. For the most part, people didn't like the shakes.† Herbalife told us the reason is that we didn't use a blender for our test. †The packaging says stir or blend.† "...we were all disappointed about was the way in which you trialled the†shakes††- by mixing them with a spoon in a small cup - as it was not representative at all of what a†shake†should look or taste like," a company spokesperson said in an email to Business Insider. "The†shakes†should be made using a blender and at the bare minimum a handful of ice; and that's before we get into the many variations of fruits, nuts and other ingredients that can be used to flavor them to taste," the email said. Watch the video below: Produced by William Wei
Defendant Christian Gerhartsreiter from Germany sits during jury selection for his murder trial at Los Angeles Superior Court in Los Angeles, California, March 15, 2013. Gerhartsreiter, the alleged Rockefeller impostor is accused of killing his landllord, John Sohus, in February 1985. REUTERS/Joe KlamarLOS ANGELES (AP) ‚Äî Christian Gerhartsreiter, who masqueraded across the U.S. as an heir to the fabled Rockefeller fortune, a movie producer and a wizard of Wall Street, was sentenced Thursday to 27 years to life in prison for a California cold-case murder. Representing himself after firing his lawyers, Gerhartsreiter again asserted that he did not commit the murder of John Sohus and asked to read a voluminous motion he had submitted to the court. When Superior Court Judge George Lomeli refused, he withdrew the motion. The hearing was marked by an emotional statement from Sohus' sister, who said some questions in the case will never be answered. She said that until his dying day, her father always asked, "Why John?" She told the judge: "You cannot give me back my brother. All I as is that you hold Mr. Gerhartsreiter accountable." Gerhartsreiger, handcuffed and wearing a blue jail uniform, was calm and respectful as he addressed the judge, saying he wished to read his motion aloud for the benefit of reporters and others. "There is great public interest," he said. "It would save time for the media." The judge told him his motion would become part of the public file where anyone can read it. But it did not become part of the public record because at that point Gerhartsreiter said, "If I do not get to read the motion, I will withdraw it." The judge said it was his right. Asked if he had any last words for the court, Gerhartsreiter said, "I can only say again I want to assert my innocence. I did not commit the crime for which I was convicted." Gerhartsreiter, 52, insisted from the outset he was innocent. The German immigrant who fooled friends, lovers and a wife during an extraordinary three-decade charade took over his own representation after a jury convicted him of first-degree murder in the death of Sohus, whose bones were found buried at a suburban San Marino home. It was a heavily circumstantial case built 28 years after Sohus vanished. There was no slam-dunk DNA solution to a murder mystery. But discovery of the bones buried for two decades in a backyard where the defendant had lived added a crucial piece to the puzzle of the man who later called himself Clark Rockefeller. Sohus, a 27-year-old computer programmer who was the son of the defendant's landlady, vanished with his wife, Linda, in 1985. No trace of her has been found. Gerhartsreiter hinted at a recent hearing that he might have information about her whereabouts. At Gerhartsreiter's trial, witnesses now old and frail testified about the stranger who came into their elegant town, befriending church members who invited him into their homes. Their testimony exhumed the ghosts of the happy young newlyweds, who inexplicably vanished shortly before the man then known as Chris Chichester also disappeared. It turned out he was off on a decades-long odyssey across the country. Variously known as Chris Crowe, Chip Smith and Clark Rockefeller, he wormed his way into high society and important jobs, married a wealthy woman and controlled her funds. But his identity unraveled when he kidnapped their daughter during a custody dispute. The resulting publicity led California authorities to revisit the Sohus disappearance and the bones found in San Marino in 1994. He was near the end of his sentence in Boston for kidnapping his young daughter, when he was charged with murder. The California case was circumstantial, built from memories and bits and pieces of evidence, primarily the bones found with a bag bearing the logo of a university once attended by the defendant. With the passage of time and lack of a motive, the prosecutor had a difficult challenge. "Sometimes you're afraid that this guy's conned so many people for so many years that this will be the one last time he pulls off his last con," the prosecutor after the verdict. "But that didn't happen." The defense attorney at the time, Jeffrey Denner, said that Gerhartsreiter probably was his own worst enemy. "The way he went through life deceiving people did not make him very likable to the jury," Denner said. "But that doesn't make him a killer." Jurors took a scant six hours to convict him. Prosecutors did not seek the death penalty. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Fred ProuserPIMCO CEO Mohamed El-Erian appeared on Bloomberg Surveillance today to speak about the current situation in Egypt, the country where he grew up. El-Erian told host Tom Keene the conflict in Egypt is "tragic, dangerous, and sad," and highlighted Egypt's immense poverty.¬† El-Erian said the U.S. has a clear advisory role to play, but the transition "has to come from within Egypt." But there is a silver lining, with more Egyptian involvement at the social and civic level, El-Erian said. With over 40% of the population living in poverty, "The revolution was about bread and dignity, or the social justice in addition to economic prosperity," El-Erian said. He also balked at returning to run for political office, but characterized the massive political transition in Egypt. From Bloomberg TV: "This is a political, social, economic, and institutional dislocation. So it is across the board. Nations need anchors and Egypt unfortunately did not build sufficient anchors during the period of repression and is now trying to build them on the run and is having difficulty. Having said that, it is really important to see the sunny side. It may not be very shiny right now, but the sunny side of the political awakening is what is happening at the grassroots level. If we speak to people there, they will tell you there is so much more involvement at the social, at the civic level. We're talking about health, education, about new entrepreneurs, about professional networks that are being formed. In the past, no one did that because they didn't feel they owned the country. They felt like landless peasants in a country that was run for the privileged few. Today, there is a very different sense. So if Egypt ‚Äì and it is going to be really hard, Tom, but if Egypt can get over this process and find national reconciliation, what is happening at the micro level is significant and speaks to a better medium term. But the immediate future is a very uncertain one." Watch the full video here.
After getting beat down in the face of better-than-expected jobless claims data this morning at 8:30 AM ET, gold has recovered all of its losses and is surging. The shiny yellow metal just blew through $1360 an ounce to the upside after trading as low as $1317 earlier. Now, it's trading around $1363, up 2.2% on the day. Silver is up 5.5%. Someone came into the market in just the past few minutes and placed a big trade, as the volume sub-graph in the chart below shows. Thinkorswim
¬†Nevertheless, the tax hikes combined with the spending sequester since March 1 are restoring some fiscal discipline in the United States. That‚Äôs good news. Over the past 12 months through July, federal receipts rose to a record high of $2.7 trillion while outlays fell to $3.4 trillion, the lowest since October 2010. The 12-month federal deficit is down to $723 billion from a record high of $1.5 trillion during February 2010.¬†  In a new publication, we compare federal government spending on goods and services, as reported in the GDP accounts, to total federal outlays as¬†reported¬†in the¬†Monthly Treasury Statement of Receipts and Outlays. The difference between the two series is spending on income redistribution through entitlement programs.  During the four quarters through Q2-2013, federal outlays totaled $3.4 trillion, with $1.3 trillion attributable to spending on goods and services and $2.1 trillion attributable to entitlement outlays. Prior to the expansion of the social welfare state under President Johnson‚Äôs Great Society program, entitlements accounted for less than 10% of government spending. They are now up to about 65%.¬†  Today's Morning Briefing: Private &amp; Public Revenues.¬†(1) Global oil demand at record high, but growing very slowly. (2) Oil demand up in emerging economies, down in advanced ones. (3) S&amp;P 500 revenues growing slowly too, at 3.4% y/y. (4) US business sales up 4.9% y/y at new high. (5) Oil demand edging up in Germany and France. (6) Europe‚Äôs recession may be over, but recovery likely to be weak. (7) Could it be that austerity works? (8) Fiscal discipline in US narrowing the federal budget deficit significantly. (9) Federal government redistributing $2.1 trillion of income. (10) The US housing recovery is fragile. (11) Focus on underweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Energy. (More for subscribers.) Ed Yardeni
Icahn's at it again, slamming the New York Times on his new favorite media medium, Twitter. NYT's thesis that Ackman's actions prove something is wrong with activism is specious. His actions prove only something is wrong with Ackman  The Twitterverse is under the impression that Icahn may have gotten his publications mixed up, because it's the New Yorker that has a massive article out today called "When Shareholder Acitvism Goes Wrong." You have to remember here that Icahn's been doing this activism thing since the 1960s ‚Äî he's an O.G.... he's the O.G. and so he's not going to let journalists run around bashing his life's work. Here's a taste of what upset Icahn so much: The restructuring efforts that Ackman and Lampert have tried to pull off, by contrast, demand a kind of industry- or company-specific knowledge, and experience, that most money managers just don‚Äôt have. That‚Äôs why the 2008 study found that hedge funds tended to target ‚Äúissues that are generalizable to all firms ‚Ä¶ rather than issues that are specific to one‚Äù company, and that this was sensible because many hedge funds ‚Äúare not experts in the specific business of their target firms.‚Äù There are, to be sure, a few hedge funds that seem able to effect meaningful improvements in the operations of the companies they target‚Äîthe best known is Nelson Peltz‚Äôs Trian Fund‚Äîbut they‚Äôre rare. In most cases, money managers would do better by sticking to what they know best‚Äîfinding undervalued companies‚Äîand to traditional forms of activism. Even Loeb‚Äôs recent success at Yahoo, whose stock has risen sharply over the past year, had more to do with pursuing conventional activist strategies (bringing in a new C.E.O. and pushing for aggressive share buybacks) than with seeking a total revamp of Yahoo‚Äôs business. You read that, right? You think Carl's going to take that lying down? No way, man. Fighting words.
REUTERS/Tiffany Brown2006 World Series of Poker champion Jamie Gold has sold his bracelet for $65,725 in an online auction. Gold defeated nearly 9,000 other opponents at the 2006 tournament, taking home the $12 million cash prize and the iconic bracelet. Since then, he has won less than $150,000 in live tournaments, Card Player reports. When his bracelet went on the market earlier this summer, the aptly-named Gold was cryptic about the reason why, suggesting it was against his will. From Card Player: ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a legal issue that I can‚Äôt talk about, but what I can say is that I am not selling it," he said. "I would never do that. It‚Äôs really unfortunate what has been happening. It is out of my hands, but it‚Äôs not something I wish was happening. I‚Äôm not purposefully selling; I‚Äôm not involved in the auction and will not be making $1 if it does end up being sold.‚Äù Emblazoned with 259 stones including over 7 carats of diamonds and 120 grams of white and yellow gold, the bracelet is "an absolutely amazing representation from one of the most talked about WSOP events in history," according to¬†the listing. A handful of other players have sold their winning bracelets too. The 2008 WSOP champion, Peter Eastgate, gave the proceeds to charity. Read the full report at Card Player&gt;
REUTERS/Yuri GripasBillionaire George Soros' family office hedge fund, Soros Fund Management, filed its 13F quarterly report with the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.¬† As Marketwatch reporter¬†Barbara Kollmeyer points out, one interesting highlight from Soros' filing is that he bought a bunch of puts on the SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF in Q2. It's his biggest holding in the filing. During the second quarter ended June 30, Soros held 26,157 shares of SPDR S&amp;P 500 and call options on 143,600 shares and put options on 7,802,400 shares in the ETF. via SEC In the first quarter ended March 31, Soros held 17,065 shares and puts on 2,618,700 shares of SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF.¬† What's so significant about this move is that puts are used for a downside bet.¬† It appears that Soros has placed a large bet through S&amp;P 500 puts, basically giving him the right, but not the obligation, to sell them in the future.¬† So if the S&amp;P 500, or the ETF which tracks the S&amp;P 500 goes down, Soros will profit handsomely. ¬† Then again, Soros also bought 66,800 shares of Apple (a major component in the S&amp;P) and he owns a bunch of other stocks. ¬†So buying S&amp;P 500 puts can also act as a hedge.¬† Also, keep in mind that these 13F filings come 45 days after the end of the quarter. ¬†Fund managers only have to disclose their long equity holdings in these 13Fs. We don't know what he's shorting.¬†
TileFor years, the cool kids in Silicon Valley have been going on about the "Internet of Things." The "Internet of Things," they'll tell you, is a massive new opportunity in which all the stuff all around you will get fitted with Internet-enabled radio chips and chat wirelessly with each other and your phones, computers, and other gadgets. In case that description doesn't get you hyperventilating, the cool kids will give you a specific example of how much your life will be improved in this glorious future. The Internet of Things, they'll say, will usher in the day when your refrigerator knows what you are eating and tells you what food you need. Once this capability is meshed with your smartphone, the cool kids will continue, your refrigerator will make your grocery list for you! Well, I'd be happy to have my refrigerator make my grocery list for me. But that's not something I'm drumming my fingers waiting for. And I confess that I've had the same tepid reaction to most of the other examples I've heard about how amazing my life is going to be when we finally get cranking with the Internet of Things. But that has all changed now. Now, I have seen a video about a forthcoming "Internet of Things" product that is going to improve my life in a way that I would never have dreamed possible. (See below.) I learned about the product in an excellent article†about the future of mobile operating systems by tech guru Steve Cheney. Steve mentioned the product in passing. I then checked out the video. You're not going to believe this when I tell you... But this product may make it so I never lose my keys or wallet again! You, presumably, are not the sort of person who ever loses your keys or wallet. You, presumably, are the sort of person who wisely puts their keys and wallet in exactly the same place every night and never has them fall out of your pocket in a car or on a plane. You are the sort of person who does not waste cumulative weeks of your life searching for your keys or wallet, often under intense deadline pressure. You are not the sort of person whose life is often thrown entirely out of balance by your temporary inability to locate your wallet or keys. Alas, I am. So when I saw the video of this miraculous new product, I suddenly, finally, joined in the community hyperventilation about the Internet of Things. The product is called "Tile." It's a little plastic square that you stick on your key ring or tuck in your wallet. It communicates with your smartphone. It turns your smartphone into a sort of brilliant homing device that directs you toward your lost wallet and keys. If you press a virtual button on your phone, the Tile on your keys will beep. So you don't even have to waste a few seconds searching in a specific vicinity. The Tile will be available next winter. The folks who are making it are pre-selling them for $18.95 apiece. That's way too much much money. But 49,586 people have already pre-ordered them. That has allowed Tile's inventors to raise $2.7 million in customer-financing. So it seems the Tile will soon become a reality. And soon after the Tile becomes a reality, I expect, the price will begin to plummet. In a few years, I expect, we'll be able to pick up a bunch of Tiles for a buck or two apiece. And after that, I will never again have to waste any time looking for my keys. Bring on The Tile, people! Bring on The Internet of Things! 
U.S. politicians and other prognosticators like to blame China for manipulating its currency in order to achieve an unfair manufacturing edge against countries like the United States, where living standards are higher and workers are necessarily paid more. If that's the case, then it certainly appears to be changing ‚Äì today, the value of the Chinese yuan climbed to its highest level in 19 years against the U.S. dollar. Yet the Chinese yuan has basically been strengthening against the dollar in nominal terms over the whole timeframe since 1994. And if we look at currencies in real terms, China actually has the¬†least competitive currency in the entire world, let alone vis-a-vis the United States. The Bank for International Settlements calculates indices known as "real effective exchange rates" (REER) to measure how undervalued over overvalued one country's currency is in relation to another. The real effective exchange rate is equal to 1 if goods bought in one country with its respective currency cost the same as goods bought in another country with the second country's currency after applying the nominal exchange rate. For example, if one buys a pack of gum for ¬•6.11 in China, and he or she can buy the same pack of gum for¬†$1.00 in the U.S. after trading his or her yuan for dollars at the nominal exchange rate, the real effective exchange rate between the two currencies is said to be equal to 1 (because the current nominal exchange rate is $1.00 = ¬•6.11). BofA Merrill Lynch strategists measure currency competitiveness on the basis of current deviations from one-year, three-year, and five-year REER averages. By this measure, China has the most overvalued currency in the world, making it the least competitive. The U.S. dollar is not particularly competitive either, but is much more so than the Chinese yuan. Japan, on the other hand, after launching an experimental program of economic stimulus late last year designed in part to weaken the yen, now has the most competitive currency in the world. "Figure 54 shows that Japan has a currency advantage globally, especially versus China, and Southeast Asia," write the BAML strategists in a report. "A weaker currency helps market-share gains, raises inflation, raises nominal GDP growth, and given Japan‚Äôs high operating leverage, raises EPS growth above what investors expect." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, BIS, BloombergNote: Calculated as deviation from 1Y, 3Y and 5Y average REER.
Wal-Mart announced earnings today that disappointed Wall Street. It also cut its outlook for future sales.† The company is blaming wary consumers for its problems.† "The retail environment remains challenging in the U.S. and our international markets, as customers are cautious in their spending," Chief Financial Officer Charles Holley said in a release today. But there's a hole in Wal-Mart's logic, notes Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors. "Wal-Mart is investing billions of dollars to lower merchandise prices and as noted by the company, food deflation is front and center on the shelves," Sozzi wrote in a research note. "Theoretically, the Wal-Mart consumer should have slightly more spending power, not less." So what is to blame for the slowdown in Wal-Mart's business? Wal-Mart's ambitious investing overseas and in e-commerce, Sozzi said.  The company has spent the past several years aggressively building stores around the world, to mixed success. It also has been working to catch up to Amazon online.† "Investments to address international, from uncompetitive prices and poorly laid out stores, continue with no visible sign they are driving improved results, while the company is pouring large sums of money into ecommerce to compete with Amazon," Sozzi writes.† And, the results show that the U.S. market is doing fine, while international took a loss. Wal-Mart has implied that when consumer outlook improves, business will too. But as Sozzi notes, there are many other areas it needs to work on. †
REUTERS/Alessandro BianchiPope Francis presides over the Holy Mass for the Assumption of Mary from the papal summer residence in Castelgandolfo south of Rome, August 15, 2013.European stock markets just closed for the day, and virtually all of them took losses. The London FTSE fell 1.7%, while the French CAC 40 and Spanish IBEX 35 closed down 0.6%. The German Dax closed down 0.7%. The only major data release out of Europe today was July U.K. retail sales, which actually came in better than market economists had predicted. Italy and a few other markets across Europe were closed for Assumption Day, but trading volume on exchanges remaining open was light throughout the region.
Ashton Kutcher promotes Chegg on Two And A Half Men.College textbook rental service Chegg ó whose most famous investor is actor Ashton Kutcher ó is not profitable and has greater negative cashflow from buying textbooks than it has in positive cashflow from its operations renting them to students.Chegg filed S-1 papers with the SEC for an upcoming IPO yesterday. It is expected to raise $150 million in a public stock sale.While Chegg's business is growing, a deep dive into its accounts shows that it has a more complicated business model than might be expected from a company that, basically, rents textbooks cheaply to students so they don't have to pay the greater price of buying them outright.First, it's important to note that Chegg's business is big and robust. It has 614 employees, and its revenues are growing. Its 2012 revenues were $213 million, up 24%. Revenues were up 15% in 2011 from the year before, and in 2010 they tripled from the year before that.So clearly Chegg is doing something right ó†there is growing demand from students who are disaffected by publishers who want to charge them more than $100 for a book that is only useful for a single semester.But Chegg has never made a profit doing this, at any time. It has only ever recorded both operating losses and losses on the bottom line:SECOne reason for that is the cost of doing business at Chegg: The company must buy new textbooks every year, which are very expensive. Then, a short time later, after renting them to students, it sells the used book. But as everyone knows, a used college textbook is often out of date and therefore worth much less (professors tend to update their textbooks every year, especially when they are assigning books they have authored themselves).In the first six months of 2013, Chegg spent $42 million acquiring texbooks, according to the investing section of its cashflow statement. It got $21 million from liquidating old textbooks. So Chegg's main assets ó†textbooks ó†are always in fast decline, giving the company a cashflow headache. Overall, Chegg's† investment cashflow was negative $24 million.However, Chegg had revenues of $116 million in the same period from book rentals. But, the cost of marketing and delivering those books made the company lose $18 million in operating profits. It did, however, see positive cashflow of $22 million from operations. You can see how complicated this is: Chegg both rents new books and liquidates old books. But the cost of renting the books and the cost of investing in new books always seems to be slightly greater than the revenues Chegg can get from renting them and the profits it can make from liquidating out-of-date books. Here's what that looks like on its simplified cashflow statement:SECThat's possibly one reason why Chegg presents this "non-GAAP" (meaning unofficial, in accounting language) representation of how it believes it is meaningfully profitable:SECChegg is profitable, it claims, if you ignore† interest, "other expenses" and taxes. That's not an unreasonable ask ó†those items are not huge bills in Chegg's business.There are signs that Chegg is scaling into a mature, profitable business. Its loss from operations has narrowed significantly over the last three years, and it's now down to 15% of its revenues in the first half of 2013, from 33% last year.So while the business is complicated, it is not impossibly so: Chegg gets cash both from renting books and selling old ones. The bigger it gets, the fewer books it needs to buy per customer, and the more profitable it becomes, both in terms of the bottom line and temporary cashflow. Kutcher appears to have backed a potentially solid business.
Argentina's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner came out of the gate guns blazing yesterday in her first public appearance since her party's crushing electoral defeat on Sunday. It was the worst election of her career, bar none. To put it in perspective, back in 2011, Kirchner retook the Presidency with the support of 52% of the country. This week, her powerful "Victory" party was only able to get 30% of the country's votes. That means in just two years 4 million voters defected to opposition parties. So in true Fernandez fashion, it was time for some theater. In a fiery speech at Tecnopolis, the Science Ministry, she railed against her opposition, essentially calling them the B-Squad... stand-ins. ìWe will discuss with big-league players, not with those sitting on the bench," she said, later adding, ìIím nobodyís substitute, Iím the president of 40 million Argentines, Iím prepared to discuss with industry, the banks, fellow friends of the unions, with the true and real economic players. This is not match for substitutes, itís a match for the main players of interests and lobbies.î That was nothing, ultimately. Her harshest critic sm was for anyone doubting Argentina's official inflation figures, and the hedge fund managers and "vulture" creditors she accuses of trying to blast her country back to the days of dependence on world powers. ììWhen Wall Street celebrates we start worrying ó every time Wall Street was happy, things went wrong for the people" she said. And later ó"Those who say we need to adopt an inflation targeting regime, what they really mean is that they want to put a cap on salaries." It was classic Kirchnerism, a speech to re-write history. She told listeners to remember that the first advertisements for goods denominated in dollars only appeared in the 1970s. She asked them to note that the country was consuming more than it was exporting. Her message was that we ó Argentinians ó do not need the world. "There used to be a law," she said with clear sarcasm, "a law that guaranteed that they would give me one dollar for one peso. I don't know if you remember... the Law of Intangibility of Deposits. They thew it out... but you know what, the economy is not made by laws. The person that believes they'll have a better salary, that they'll have a home, or that they'll have family security from a law is wrong. They have social benefits through the project of a country that has a political economy and a conviction to serve the interests of the country." This is the part of the speech when people started to stand up and cheer. And then she really went off, bringing up the Argentine warship, The Libertad, that hedge fund manager Paul Singer impounded last year as collateral for the country's debts. Argentina came through that, she said, because it is a country that looks out for itself. "Because of that," she continued to more adulation, "when we had the issue with our the 'The Liberty", we held on, and we didn't give an inch to the vultures. When others said, 'pay the vultures' to recuperate 'The Liberty'... to recuperate it with dishonor? Never. And as an Argentine, and the commander of the armed forces, we could only get it back with honor. And for that, Argentines, we must understand that there is a lot at stake." The crowd went nuts. You have to admit, she's pretty good. Meanwhile, as she spoke, the Buenos Aires Herald reports that there was a flurry of dollar buying in the underground Argentine "blue market" dollar exchange. So she's good, but not that good. If you love a little Latin American populist anger (and you speak Spanish) you can watch the speech below: 

Everyone's always whining about how flying sucks now compared to the way it used to be. Judging from the photo below, they might have a point. This photo was tweeted this morning by Soren Dragsbaek Holm. It's reportedly a shot of an economy-class cabin on a 747 from the 1960s.¬†(The first 747 flew in January, 1970. It's possible this photo was taken earlier). UPDATE:¬†Folks on Reddit think the photo is actually a "staged" version of a 747 cabin, which is certainly possible. The cabin has one fewer seat across than today's cabins, though, and the luggage compartments are smaller, both of which make the cabin look bigger than today's. So even if it's a mock-up, it's likely close to reality. A saved version¬†of the photo here refers to it as a "mock-up,"¬†so perhaps it was used to educate folks as to what flying on a 747 would be like.¬† UPDATE 2: And hold everything! The photo actually came from a feature that we did a few days ago. It's from the Pan-Am archives. Check it and others out here. Soren Dragsbaek Holm Of course, when folks pine for the old days of flying, they ignore how relatively cheap and safe this mode of travel has become. Flying cost an arm and a leg in the 1960s. And there were lots more plane crashes. If people really wanted comfort and service above price today, they'd pony up for First Class or Business Class. And there would be airlines that sold seats on the basis of comfort and service instead of price. But the truth is that the most important factor for most flyers is price. So we get what we pay for.¬† SEE ALSO: It's Time For People Who Whine About Crappy Airline Service To Admit They're Getting Exactly What They Want
With the latest round of layoffs at Cisco, industry experts like analyst Paul Kedrosky are again calling for John Chambers' head. Cisco stunned the tech world Wednesday when it said it was firing 4,000 more people, even though it reported a solid quarter. Cisco hasn't said yet which business units will feel the brunt of the layoffs except to promise Sourcefire employees that that they are safe for now. (Sourcefire is a security company that Cisco is in the process of buying.) But who knows how long that will last? This is actually Cisco's second layoff this year, and it's been trimming people steadily since 2011. The ongoing layoffs are not surprising, giving that Cisco "is really the amalgamation of a host of acquisitions dating back to the 1990s,"† Kedrosky said today on Bloomberg TV. Kedrosky is a former tech stock analyst, an investor, and the guy behind the popular financial blog "Infectious Greed."† Paul Kedrosky"Some of what we're seeing is an unwinding that should have happened a long time ago," he said. Cisco's problem is that it's facing a lot of smaller competitors that react quicker and offer products that cost less. When asked if it was time for Chambers to leave Cisco, Kedrosky said, "God, yes. Can we compel him?" Chambers is a growth-through-acquisitions CEO. What the company needs now is an "efficiency expert," Kedrosky says.
Wikimedia CommonsS&amp;P 500 futures have been headed lower for most of the morning since around 6 AM ET, but the selling really accelerated at 8:30 with the release of better-than-expected initial jobless claims data, which may suggest that the Federal Reserve will be ready to begin tapering back its quantitative easing program as soon as the central bank's September policy meeting. (Treasuries and gold are also taking a beating.) At 9:15, the Federal Reserve reported weaker-than-expected industrial production growth, which was flat in July. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading down 1.4% from yesterday's close at 1661. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, meanwhile, is also down 1.4%, or 210 points, at around 15,130. The S&amp;P 500 has closed down in six of the last eight trading sessions. Thinkorswim
APRep. Tom McClintock just made some friends on Wall Street. Because financial misconduct is only criminal if a gun is involved, according to the California Republican. ThinkProgress dug up this video†of McClintock's recent town hall meeting where†a constituent asks the congressman for his "stance on Wall Street criminal practices." McClintock begins, "Well first of all, for a criminal practice, there has to be a gun. It's pretty simple." Though, the congressman went on to decry bank bailouts, and added that individual financial decisions†ó smart or otherwise†ó are†ìthe price we pay for the freedom to make all of the good decisions in our lives.î Watch the video: 
Brent prices continue to track the death toll from Egyptian unrest as both climbed higher Thursday. Egypt's Health Ministry now says 525 people have been killed as the army cracks down on supporters of ousted President Mohamed Morsi, according to the New York Times. Meanwhile, Brent was up as much as 0.90% this morning, hitting a four-month high of¬†$111.15, according to the Wall Street Journal. The London-traded contract was also pushed higher by uncertainty about production out of Libya,¬†where turmoil is having an even more direct impact on markets. Here's the chart: BarChart U.S.-traded WTI was also up 0.30% to more than $107.86 on declining inventories.
REUTERS/Mike BlakeThe NAHB housing market index (HMI), a gauge of homebuilder sentiment, climbed to 59 in August. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for homebuilder confidence to hold steady at 57. July's reading was revised down to 56. A reading over 50 shows that more builders think sales conditions are good rather than poor. A regional breakdown showed that the three-month average in homebuilder confidence climbed to 60 in the Midwest, 57 in the West, 54 in the South, and was unchanged at 39 in the Northeast. "Builders are seeing more motivated buyers walk through their doors than they have in quite some time," NAHB Chairman Rick Judson said in a press release.  "What‚Äôs more, firming home prices and thinning inventories of homes for sale are contributing to an increased sense of urgency among those who are in the market." But they do expect tightening credit and low supply of labor and finished lots to weigh on the momentum in homebuilder confidence. Two of three sub-components of the HMI increased in July.¬† Investors track this index because it is a leading indicator for housing starts. Though some like Paul Diggle at Capital Economics argue that NAHB has a "history of over-exuberance as a predictor of starts."
Goldman Sachs / YouTubeGoldman Sachs chief economist Jan HatziusThe Philly Fed's August Business Outlook Survey is out. The headline index fell to 9.3 from July's 19.8 reading. Economists were expecting a smaller drop to 15.0. The numbers suggest that the pace of expansion in regional manufacturing slowed sharply, but still remained at a moderate level over the past month. Below is a summary of the data from the release: The survey‚Äôs broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index of current activity, decreased from 19.8 (its highest reading since March 2011) to 9.3 this month (see Chart). The index has now been positive for three consecutive months. The percentage of firms reporting increased activity this month (28 percent) was greater than the percentage reporting decreased activity (19 percent). Other current indicators suggest growth¬†moderated this month. The demand for manufactured goods as measured by the current new orders index remained positive for the third consecutive month but fell 5¬†points to 5.3. The shipments index fell 15 points to just below zero, its first negative reading in three months. Both unfilled orders and delivery times indexes were negative this month, suggesting continued slack conditions. Labor market indicators showed only modest improvement this month. The current employment index, at 3.5, fell 4 points but has been slightly positive for two consecutive months. The percentage of firms reporting increases in employment (19 percent) exceeded the percentage reporting decreases (16 percent). Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius says the Philly Fed Business Outlook release is the best predictor of future economic growth.
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidHedge fund manager David Einhorn, who runs $8 billion Greenlight Capital, has filed his fund's 13F with the SEC.¬† For the second quarter ended June 30, Apple¬†remained Einhorn's top holding. He held 2,397,706 shares in the tech giant during Q2.¬† He also disclosed new positions in Liberty Global (2,177,999 shares) during Q2, ING (3,707,409 shares) and a big stake in Rite Aid (20,200,000 shares), the filing shows. Einhorn exited his positions in Microsoft (held 6,079,544 shares in Q1), Hess, Virgin Media, Sprint, Seagate Technology and CBS. Just a reminder, funds only have to disclose their long holdings in these securities filings.
Screenshot CNBCToday is senior stock correspondent Herb Greenberg's last full-time day at CNBC. Greenberg is moving back to TheStreet.com where he previously worked for many years. In his new role, Greenberg will be the editor of¬†Herb Greenberg's¬†Reality Check, a subscription newsletter for investors focused on risk. In a post on Facebook, Greenberg explained that his CNBC contract was about to expire and that he and his wife decided to move back to San Diego.¬† He will remain a CNBC contributor and they will install a camera in his California home, he wrote. ¬†He added that he'll return to the studio for a week a month.¬† Here's the press release:¬† TheStreet, Inc.¬†(Nasdaq:TST), a leading digital financial media company, announced today that¬†Herb Greenberg¬†has rejoined the Company. "We're thrilled¬†Herb Greenberg¬†is returning to TheStreet.¬†No one is more passionate and does¬†more¬†work around companies and industries than Herb does.¬†He sparks serious conversation to help investors separate speculation from reality¬†by shining a spotlight on risks," said¬†Elisabeth DeMarse, CEO and Chairman of¬†TheStreet. "Our goal is to educate investors, and help investors make money.¬†¬†But avoiding losing money is just as important as making it -- and nobody does it better than Herb." Mr. Greenberg, previously a senior stocks commentator on¬†CNBC, will serve as editor of¬†Herb Greenberg's¬†Reality Check, a subscription newsletter designed to help investors better manage risk; write a daily blog for¬†TheStreet's¬†main free site and contribute to Real Money's "Columnist Conversation." He also will remain a regular¬†CNBC¬†contributor. "I'm excited to be returning to my online journalism roots,"¬†Mr. Greenberg¬†said. "A lot has changed over the years, but one thing hasn't:¬†TheStreet¬†stands out as an independent, edgy voice. It remains a perfect place to give investors a dose of reality -- and remind them of the risk many choose to ignore." Mr. Greenberg¬†was senior columnist for¬†TheStreet¬†from 1998 until 2006, before joining¬†MarketWatch, during which time he also wrote a weekly column for¬†The Wall Street Journal. For many years he wrote a monthly column for¬†Fortune Magazine. Earlier in his career, he was a daily business columnist for the¬†San Francisco Chronicle¬†and a business reporter for the¬†Chicago Tribune. Mr. Greenberg¬†will be based in¬†San Diego.
REUTERS/Jim YoungA worker assembles a pinball machine at Stern Pinball in Melrose Park, just outside Chicago, Illinois, July 10, 2013. According to Stern Pinball, they are the only makers of arcade quality pinball machines in the world and produce about 10,000 machines annually, which are shipped all over the world.July industrial production data are out. Industrial production was unchanged in July from June's levels, missing expectations for a 0.3% rise, and slowing from June's downward-revised 0.2% pace of growth. Manufacturing production fell 0.1%. Economists predicted it would increase 0.2% in July after advancing a downward-revised 0.2% in June. Capacity utilization edge down to 77.6% from last month's downward-revised 77.7% level. Economists were looking for a tick up to 77.9%. Click here for the full release ¬ª Below is the full text of the release. ------------------------------------------ Market Groups The production of consumer goods decreased 0.5 percent in July after having increased 0.6 percent in June; in July, the index stood 1.3 percent above its year-earlier level. The production of durable consumer goods fell 1.5 percent; within consumer durables, automotive products posted a loss of 2.4 percent, while all other indexes moved down between 1/2 and 1 percent. The index for consumer nondurables contracted 0.2 percent. The output of non-energy nondurables decreased 0.4 percent, with losses in the indexes for foods and tobacco, for chemical products, and for paper products. After having fallen in the previous three months, the output of consumer energy products moved up 0.3 percent, as increases in petroleum refining more than offset lower sales of electricity to residences. The index for business equipment was unchanged in July and stood 2.1 percent above its year-earlier level. In July, the index for transit equipment was unchanged, the production of information processing equipment decreased 0.7 percent, and the index for industrial and other equipment edged up 0.2 percent. The output of defense and space equipment advanced 1.0 percent in July. The increase in July was the first gain for the index since December 2012. The cumulative decline over the first six months of the year was 2.3 percent. In July, the output of construction supplies advanced 0.5 percent for a second consecutive month and, despite large swings over the past year, stood 4.4 percent above its level of a year earlier. The production of business supplies declined 0.7 percent in July and was 0.5 percent below its year-earlier level. The production of materials to be processed further in the industrial sector moved up 0.4 percent in July and stood 1.7 percent above its year-earlier level. The output of durable materials edged up 0.2 percent in July, as a decline for equipment parts was outweighed by increases for consumer parts and for other durable materials. The production of nondurable materials moved down 0.5 percent as a result of losses for textile, paper, and chemical materials. The output of energy materials advanced 1.2 percent on the strength of gains in oil and natural gas extraction; in July, the index for this market group was 3.5 percent above its level of a year earlier. Industry Groups Manufacturing output declined 0.1 percent in July after having increased 0.3 percent in May and 0.2 percent in June. The index in July was slightly above its level at the end of last year and 1.3 percent above its level in July 2012. The factory operating rate moved down 0.1 percentage point to 75.8 percent, a rate 2.9 percentage points below its long-run average. The output of durable goods fell 0.2 percent in July; the index has been little changed since February. In July, primary metals posted the largest gain among the major components of durables, 2.6 percent, while motor vehicles and parts recorded the largest loss, 1.7 percent. Capacity utilization for durable goods manufacturing fell 0.3 percentage point to 75.6 percent, a rate 1.4 percentage points below its long-run average. The index for nondurable manufacturing was unchanged in July for a second month in a row and was 0.9 percent above its level of a year earlier. Among the major components of nondurables, the production of petroleum and coal products advanced 2.0 percent, and the index for apparel and leather goods moved up 0.7 percent. Printing and support recorded the largest decrease in output, 1.2 percent, while the indexes for food, beverage, and tobacco products and for textile and product mills both posted losses of around 1/2 percent. The indexes for other nondurable goods industries were little changed. Capacity utilization for nondurables edged down 0.1 percentage point to 77.3 percent, a rate 3.4 percentage points below its long-run average. Production for non-NAICS manufacturing industries (publishing and logging) decreased 0.1 percent in July after having increased 0.9 percent in June. The index was 4.5 percent below its year-earlier level. Mining output moved up 2.1 percent in July following an increase of 1.0 percent in June. The gain in July reflected a large increase in oil and gas extraction. The operating rate for mining rose 1.5 percentage points to 89.5 percent, a rate 2.2 percentage points above its long-run average. The production of electric and gas utilities fell 2.1 percent, and their operating rate declined 1.6 percentage points to 76.2 percent, a rate 10.0 percentage points below its long-run average. Capacity utilization rates in July for industries grouped by stage of process were as follows: At the crude stage, utilization increased 0.9 percentage point to 87.4 percent, a rate 1.1 percentage points above its long-run average; at the primary and semifinished stages, utilization declined 0.2 percentage point to 75.5 percent, a rate 5.5 percentage points below its long-run average; and at the finished stage, utilization moved down 0.5 percentage point to 75.6 percent, a rate 1.5 percentage points lower than its long-run average. Rebasing of Gross Value of Products Series¬† With the October 17, 2013, release of the G.17, the comparison base year for the data in Table 9, Gross Value of Final Products and Nonindustrial Supplies, and in Table 10, Gross-Value-Weighted Industrial Production: Stage-of-Process Groups, will be advanced to 2009 to conform with the comparison base year of the national income and product accounts issued by the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Note.¬†The statistics in this release cover output, capacity, and capacity utilization in the U.S. industrial sector, which is defined by the Federal Reserve to comprise manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities. Mining is defined as all industries in sector 21 of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS); electric and gas utilities are those in NAICS sectors 2211 and 2212. Manufacturing comprises NAICS manufacturing industries (sector 31-33) plus the logging industry and the newspaper, periodical, book, and directory publishing industries. Logging and publishing are classified elsewhere in NAICS (under agriculture and information respectively), but historically they were considered to be manufacturing and were included in the industrial sector under the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) system. In December 2002 the Federal Reserve reclassified all its industrial output data from the SIC system to NAICS.
Bloomberg TVIt's been a while since we've seen a fresh note from Jefferies strategist David Zervos, but a source at one of his clients tells us what he's telling his clients right now about the state of the market. We summarize what we were told:
REUTERS/Steve MarcusActivist investor Daniel Loeb released Third Point LLC's 13F quarterly filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday evening.¬† During the second quarter ended June 30, Loeb disclosed new stakes in Disney (1,800,000 shares and 32,000 call),¬†Coca-Cola (1,000,000 shares), CF Industries (845,000 shares),¬†Elan (8,500,000 shares and 3,500,000 call), Marathon Petroleum (1,250,000 shars and 1,000,000 call) and Williams Cos. (1,750,000 shares).¬† During Q2, Loeb exited his positions in Virgin Media, Delphi Automotive and Murphy Oil.¬† Fund managers only have to disclose their long holdings in these securities filings.¬†
Bloomberg via Getty ImagesCisco CEO John ChambersShares of Cisco are getting clubbed this morning following earnings from yesterday. A big part of the story is weakness in emerging markets, which is a well-known story, but the numbers are jarring. On CNBC this morning, CEO John Chambers said that while emerging markets as a whole grew by 8%, the big emerging markets grew only 1%. This echoes what he said on the conference call yesterday. Check this out from Seeking Alpha: Our emerging markets business was up 8%, however we saw mixed results in our top five emerging countries, with India and Mexico up in double digits, Brazil and Russia approximately flat and China down 6%. The changes in macroeconomic conditions in the emerging markets both positive and negative are driving more inconsistent growth than in the past. Now on moving on to customer segment view again and from an orders perspective. By the way, Cisco's big whiff mirrors the weakness at Walmart, which also missed earnings thanks to bad international markets.
The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is at new highs following the release of better-than-expected initial jobless claims data at 8:30 AM. Right now, the 10-year yield is up 8 basis points from yesterday's close to 2.79%, above the previous high of 2.74% seen at the culmination of the bond market sell-off on July 5. Meanwhile, gold is also getting crushed. The 8:30 data knocked $15 an ounce off the price of the shiny yellow metal instantly before it bounced a bit. Now, it's down around 0.7% on the day, trading around $1323 an ounce. The chart below shows gold this morning. Thinkorswim The next chart shows 5-year Treasury futures. Thinkorswim
Instagram/jwheymanThe¬†New York Federal Reserve's monthly Empire State Manufacturing Survey is out. The survey's headline index fell to 8.24 from last month's 9.46 reading. Economists predicted the index would rise slightly to 10.00. The drop suggests that business conditions for New York manufacturers continued to improve over the past month, albeit at a slower pace than the month before. Below is a summary of the data from the release: The August 2013¬†Empire State Manufacturing Survey¬†indicates that conditions for New York manufacturers improved modestly for a third consecutive month. The general business conditions index, at 8.2, was little changed from last month. The new orders index slipped four points to 0.3 and the shipments index fell seven points to 1.5, suggesting that both orders and shipments were flat. The prices paid index rose slightly to 20.5, and the prices received index climbed three points to 3.6. Labor market conditions improved, with the index for number of employees climbing eight points to 10.8 and the average workweek index rising twelve points to 4.8. Both of these indexes reached their highest levels in a year. Indexes for the six-month outlook generally pointed to strong optimism about future business activity; the future general business conditions index rose five points to 37.4, its highest level in more than a year.¬†In response to a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers predicted that overall sales or revenues would be 5 percent higher in 2013 than in 2012; employment levels and capital spending were expected to be little changed from last year. Also, more respondents reported that they had scaled back than raised their sales expectations for 2013 from what they had anticipated at the beginning of the year. Hiring and capital spending plans for 2013 were only slightly less positive than at the beginning of the year. Click here for the full release ¬ª
Getty Images/Andrew BurtonThis is a great number. Initial jobless claims fell to 320K from 335K last month. This is much better than what was expected, and it's the best number since late 2007. Folks just aren't getting laid off very much. Markets remain in the red.
AP Photo/ Louis LanzanoConsumer prices climbed 0.2% month-over-month (MoM) in July, in line with expectations. Core CPI (ex-food and energy) also climbed 0.2% in line with expectations. Consumer prices were up 2% on the year and core CPI was up 1.7% on the year, in line with expectations.¬† Investors watch this number because it is a monthly indicator of inflation and gives us insight into the cost of living. The Fed's preferred measure of inflation however is the personal consumption price index because it reflects what consumers are purchasing.
Flickr/brostadWhen Durango, Colorado-based craft beer company Ska Brewing first chose to favor canning instead of bottling their beer, it was all about practicality ‚Äî glass bottles simply didn't mesh with the founders' outdoorsy lifestyle. "Bottles are no good for river trips," Ska's Dave Welz told Business Insider. Also, "You might want to have a beer at the summit of a hike." Then, they were following in the canning footsteps of fellow Colorado craft brewer Oskar Blues. Now canned beer ‚Äî for Ska based more on a rugged ethos than its bottom line ‚Äî has proliferated across the country like the craft beer phenomenon before it. Canning innovation is on the rise. And why not? It's cheaper to produce and better for the environment, Welz says. Budweiser recently brought us a much-mocked "bowtie" can. After years of resistance, American beer giant Sam Adams unveiled the "Sam can," upending the old beer maxim about bottled beer having more flavor and sophistication. "As we looked at it, we realized it has all these other advantages," Welz said. First, canned beer weighs less. Less packaging means you can move the same amount of product in fewer trips, reducing a firm's expenses and carbon footprint at the same time. Whole Foods, which retails its share of craft beer, has seen a 30% increase in canned beer sales in the past year. MarketWatch describes the paradigm shift: As of 2012, cans constituted 53.2% of the beer market while bottles had a 36.5% share ‚Äî a fairly significant gap. By contrast, in 2006, the two packagings were much closer in popularity ‚Äî cans accounted for 48.3% of the market and bottles 41.9%. (Draft beer largely accounts for the rest of brew sales.) To everyone's delight, canning is also better for a beer's quality, according to Welz. Cans don't let light in, plain and simple. "Light is destructive to the organic compound in beer that make the flavors everyone is so crazy about," he said. Welz also suspects that cans, with a "double-crimped" seal, are better than bottles at preventing air from getting in ‚Äî air being one of the main enemies of a delicious brew. All that is true, but Ska Brewing thinks the mounting consumer preference for canned beer has less to do with quality and more to do with convenience. Biking to the store? Grab cans over bottles. Tired of glass breaking in the cooler on your road trip? Cans are safer. Own a grocery store (or a refrigerator)? Cans are more stackable. There are a few other theories to explain the trend here. Cans harken back to a simpler time. Thanks to a sense of hipster nostalgia, Pabst Blue Ribbon enjoys its current reign among penny-pinching Brooklynites. Canned beer also chills better, and collective hysteria over BPA poisoning ‚Äî a chemical in the lining of aluminum and plastic products ‚Äî has gone out of vogue. Bottles certainly aren't going anywhere (Sam Adams' flagship will remain its bottled Boston Lager). Even Ska bottles some of its beers, such as the ‚Äî wait for it ‚Äî "Buster Nut Brown Ale." It's that kind of plucky craft beer aesthetic that has dislodged the American beer industry. Instead of just sticking to their recognizable mainstays, breweries like Anheuser-Busch now want you to buy craft beer look-alikes like Shock Top. "Beer used to be defined by its packaging," explains Welz. But as more and more craft beers pop up in can form, "People are interested to find why it's been turned on its head."
ReutersLei JunChina's penchant for copying western ideas reached a new level last year when the country basically cloned Apple and its founder Steve Jobs. A company called Xiaomi and its founder, Lei Jun, were quickly dubbed "China's Apple" and "China's Steve Jobs," in part because of Lei Jun's habit of introducing the company's new smartphones while wearing a black turtlenecks and strolling the stage in front of spare, tasteful product photos. Not surprisingly, Xiaomi is doing very well. The company's smartphones are now reportedly outselling Apple's iPhones--in part because they're much cheaper than iPhones. Like other Chinese smartphone makers, Xiaomi is taking advantage of Apple's decision to try to maintain its high prices in a country in which average incomes make the iPhone unaffordable. These cheap smartphones from China could be a big problem for Apple, Samsung, and other "premium" smartphone vendors over the next few years. Even in rich countries, there's no reason to pay $600 for a phone when you can get an excellent one for $100. This week, Xiaomi launched a new smartphone, the "Hongmi," or "Red Rice." It's red and beautiful. There were 7.45 million pre-orders, and the phone reportedly sold out in 90 seconds. So that, too, is very Apple-like. But Lei Jun is not happy about the Apple comparisons. When Reuters caught up with him in Beijing this week, he said Xiaomi is really more like Google or Amazon. See the transcript below.Xiaomi (SOUNDBITE) (Mandarin) XIAOMI FOUNDER &amp; CEO, LEI JUN, SAYING: "We're actually an Internet company. We've already got a business in mobile phone hardware and we want to add to that an Internet platform. We can earn money from that, once it's established." (SOUNDBITE) (English) REUTERS REPORTER, JANE LANHEE LEE, SAYING: "So how can you call yourself an Internet company? You sell mobile phones." (SOUNDBITE) (Mandarin) XIAOMI FOUNDER &amp; CEO, LEI JUN, SAYING: "Well, I'd like to turn the question around and ask, what is an Internet company? The Internet represents an advanced way of thinking. Companies that are armed with this have an incredible competitive edge. Today, we're already China's third largest e-commerce company and we've already built a massive, massive, mobile internet platform. And we have a lot of apps. We've built the MIUI firmware based on the Android OS and it's a very strong system. People just don't get it. The mobile phone itself is only the carrier. Microsoft used to sell Windows in a box with a CD in it. Does that make Microsoft a paper box company? The box and the CD are only the carrier. If people don't understand this, they can't understand what kind of company Xiaomi is." (SOUNDBITE) (English) REUTERS REPORTER, JANE LANHEE LEE, SAYING: "What is the situation today? How much money are you making or how profitable or how big is this ecosystem?" (SOUNDBITE) (Mandarin) XIAOMI FOUNDER &amp; CEO, LEI JUN, SAYING: "We really just started from September last year. Our revenues have just exceeded US$3.2 million a month, but by the end of next year our revenue should reach US$21-24 million dollars per month. That's just from our Internet ecosystem - from our market, from our game center, and various other revenue streams online." (SOUNDBITE) (English) REUTERS REPORTER, JANE LANHEE LEE, SAYING: "How do you feel about people referring to Xiaomi as China's Apple? And are there any Apple strategies, elements of Apple strategies, that you admire or that you've adopted." (SOUNDBITE) (Mandarin) XIAOMI FOUNDER &amp; CEO, LEI JUN, SAYING: "Xiaomi and Apple are two completely different things. If you understand Xiaomi, I am sure one day you will understand that Apple and Xiaomi are completely different companies. You know, I really don't like answering the question of whether Xiaomi is China's Apple. I that think the core problem is people don't understand Xiaomi. The main difference is that it is the internet that has made Xiaomi. Apple's design is very simple, and no matter who the customer is there is one set solution. There are few opportunities to meet individual preferences. But Xiaomi's system can be changed by anyone, and thousands of designers create all sorts of functions, looks and solutions." (SOUNDBITE) (English) REUTERS REPORTER, JANE LANHEE LEE, SAYING: "But a lot of foreign media, especially, compare you to Apple." (SOUNDBITE) (Mandarin) XIAOMI FOUNDER &amp; CEO, LEI JUN, SAYING: "Apple is, of course, an incredibly successful company. I'm not trying to compare Xiaomi with Apple. But if people really want to compare Xiaomi to a foreign company, you can say it looks a bit like Apple but it's really more like Amazon with some elements of Google. So take these three companies together, then it's easier to clearly understand what kind of company Xiaomi is. Xiaomi selling mobile phones is like Amazon selling Kindles. So you can understand why we sell them for so cheap."
ReutersRiot police fire tear gas during clashes with members of the Muslim Brotherhood and supporters of deposed Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, around Cairo University and Nahdet Misr Square, where they are camping in Giza, south of Cairo August 14, 2013. Egyptian security forces killed at least 30 people on Wednesday when they cleared a camp of Cairo protesters who were demanding the reinstatement of Mursi, his Muslim Brotherhood movement said.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
The World Gold Council is out with a new report on gold demand trends for Q2. Total demand has fallen to its lowest level in 4 years, owing to a decline in demand for gold for investment related purposes (demand for jewelry and coins continues to grow). Here's the chart showing total demand going back to the beginning of 2010, wherein you can see that the last two quarters are the weakest we've seen in recent years. Business Insider
Sober Look, WSJ10-Year YieldThe retail sales measure from the¬†Commerce Department survey came in below expectations today with 0.2% month-over-month change vs. 0.3% expected. Given that the numbers missed the forecast, why then did treasuries sell off sharply after the release? The answer is that while retail sales growth has not been spectacular, it is sufficiently strong for the Fed to begin reducing its securities purchases shortly. Sales ex-autos were up 0.4% (auto sales are volatile and other recent indicators of auto sales have been strong.) The year-over-year ex-auto retail sales number is historically on the lower end, but falls within the 2.5%-5% range that some view as stable.  Given that the consumer is such a large part of the GDP, some economists are already revising their GDP forecasts up. The FOMC now has only one key potential showstopper: the ultra-low inflation rate scenario. ¬†As James Bullard pointed out in his June speech, inflation measures were collapsing earlier this year (see post), raising the specter of deflationary risks. If that trend were to continue, the Fed would go into a holding pattern. But inflation indicators in the US seem to have stabilized. Commodity prices have bottomed out (for now), as copper bounced (see post) and energy prices remain elevated.  Moreover, market-implied inflation expectations have risen since the dip earlier this summer.  With deflation no longer a high probability near-term threat, the FOMC has run out of excuses. Unless the labor market suddenly takes a material turn for the worse this month, we should see the beginning of the end for QE3 shortly.
Walmart just came out with earnings, and it was a miss. The company also cut its outlook. Here's the reason. While the U.S. market is doing okay, the international scene stunk up the joint. Operating income in the U.S. grew 5.2% in the quarter. International? Down 1.3%. WalMart For more on the earnings, see here.
Instagram/kaylaykinsWal-Mart's Q2 earnings report is out. The global retailing giant reported earnings of $1.24 per share, slightly below expectations for $1.25. Revenues in the second quarter were $116.9 billion, short of the $119.7 billion predicted by analysts. Same-store sales fell 0.3%. "The retail environment remains challenging in the U.S. and our international markets, as customers are cautious in their spending. Net sales in the first six months were below our expectations, so we are updating our forecast for net sales to grow between 2 and 3 percent for the full year versus our previous range of 5 to 6 percent," said Wal-Mart CFO Charles Holley in the release. "This revision reflects our view of current global business trends, and significant ongoing headwinds from anticipated currency exchange rate fluctuations." Shares are about 2.4% lower in pre-market trading. Click here for the full release ¬ª
But is Chinaís more leisurely rate of economic growth really so dangerous? Short answer: no. Credit Suisseís Economics Research and Global Strategy teams, led by Chief Economist Neal Soss, analyzed the impact Chinaís slowdown could have on the global economy in an early August note entitled ìThe North Atlantic Outweighs China.î They reached a rather surprising conclusion: The improving economic picture in the U.S. and Europe will have more of an impact on global growth trends than the tepid data coming out of China and Asia. The analysts also donít foresee a significant further slowdown in Chinaís growth ahead, and the release last week of positive economic data, including a surprisingly large 10 percent increase in industrial production, underscored that forecast. One of the biggest reasons a slower-growing China gives market-watchers pause is that the country of 1.3 billion people absorbs an enormous amount of the worldís exports ñ Chinaís gross imports account for 2.9 percent of world GDP, compared to 3.6 percent for the European Union and 3.8 percent for the United States. When such a large appetite for goods and services flags, one might expect other economies to bear the brunt of it. But when you consider Chinaís imports in a different way ñ a more integrated global supply chain means that many countries, particularly China, simply import components of a product, assemble it in a factory and then re-export it to another country for further work or sale ñ the numbers change dramatically. Chinaís value-added imports ñ in other words, the portion of total imports that stay in China and are sold to Chinese customers, rather than those that are assembled and re-exported ñ accounted for just 1.7 percent of total global GDP. Thatís about half the value of the U.S. or European Unionís value-added imports and just 50 percent larger than Japanís. ìDomestic demand in the U.S. and EU matters much more than Chinese demand on a global scale,î analysts wrote. Think about it like this: The iPhone is counted in official statistics as a Chinese export, because final assembly of the phone happens in China. In fact, Chinaís assembly work adds only $6.50 of the $178.96 value of an iPhone 3, with imported components from Japan, Germany, Korea, the U.S. and other countries making up the rest. So exports that are credited to China arguably belong to those other countries that made the components. Even Chinaís neighbors rely more on shipping goods to the United States than to China on a value-added basis. Only about one-third of total exports from non-Japan Asia to China stay there, analysts noted. Who should be concerned about those that do? German exporters, for one, given that Germany accounts for more than half of the euro areaís exports to China. But even they donít seem overly concerned. That could be because the worst is over ñ while the year-over-year growth rate of German exports of capital and transport goods, which make up the bulk of the countryís shipments to China, tumbled from 50 percent at the end of 2010 into negative territory earlier this year, in recent surveys, Germanyís export expectations have been stable. ìIf something more serious were happening in China, we would expect to see it in evidence in Germany,î analysts argued. ìBut it isnítÖ The bulk of the slowdown in this component of German exports has already happened.î Of Chinaís regional trading partners, Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia and Singapore have the most exposure to weakening Chinese growth. In Latin America, Chile has the most exposure to Chinese value-added imports, while Australia, Japan and Germany top the list of developed countries that send the most value-added exports as a percentage of GDP to China. But again, the bulk of the pain has already been felt. ìThe slowdown in Chinese export demand is already well advanced,î the analysts wrote, adding that strong demand in 2009 and 2010 owed a great deal to the Chinese governmentís large fiscal stimulus program.Fresh economic data certainly seems to support the view that a further dramatic slide is not in the offing. Chinese imports of crude oil, iron ore and copper all rose last month, as did industrial production, though Credit Suisseís China economists Weishen Deng and Dong Tao only saw the good news as a sign that the economy is stabilizing, rather than a major rebound. Still, the economics and strategy analysts noted that China should benefit this year from the improving health of the U.S., Japan and Europe, which together buy up 40 percent of Chinaís total exports. ìImproving economic momentum in these major trading partners can certainly help stop the slump in Chinese exports and hence support growth,î the analysts wrote. As Chinaís economy matures, its leaders are increasingly eager to speed Chinaís transition from an export-dependent economy to one that relies more on domestic consumption. And the news on that front is encouraging. Both urban and rural household disposable incomes are growing at an impressive rate in real terms at 6.5 percent and 9.2 percent so far this year, respectively. Soss and his team pointed out that the Politburo has made improving living standards and stoking consumer demand an official goal, and Chinese Premier Li Keqiang has said that government could implement a stimulus program if GDP growth slips below 7 percent this year. Officials have already implemented other small reforms to juice the economy, including reducing taxes on small businesses and scrapping a floor on the rates banks can charge borrowers for loans. Credit Suisse said the Communist Partyís third plenary session in October may not bring a huge fiscal stimulus, but the party might cut some of its own ìinefficientî spending to make room for new infrastructure projects sponsored by the central government, which in theory would promote more economic activity. Finally, some observers have been concerned about whether Chinaís credit boom could pose a systemic risk. ìChinaís credit-to-GDP ratio has increased by 53 percentage points in four years ñ one of the fastest peacetime credit expansions ever seen in a major economy,î Credit Suisse analysts noted. ìHistory suggests such a credit expansion can end very badly, especially when it finances overcapacity, which appears to be the case for China.î The rapid development of Chinaís ìshadow bankingî sector, or lending by non-bank financial intermediaries such as trust companies, which are not as tightly regulated as banks, has raised concerns. So has the practice of banks selling wealth management products that offer higher returns than traditional deposit accounts, but often back riskier business loans that do not appear on bank balance sheets. In what was seen as an effort to crack down on non-traditional lending, the Chinese central bank recently cut off the flow of liquidity in Chinaís interbank lending market, sending the rate banks charge each other to borrow money skyrocketing. Since then, banks have been more cautious about lending, particularly through the sort of off-balance-sheet credit vehicles, such as trade bills, that fund many small and medium-sized businesses. Credit Suisse analysts believe that China can avoid a full-on credit crisis, thanks in no small part to the fact that they donít forecast a dramatic decline in growth. China clearly needs to deleverage and address non-performing loans, analysts said. Banks have already started to scrub such loans ñ though exactly how much they have done is unknown. Local governments in China have also run up massive tabs for local infrastructure projects, and economists and ratings agencies such as Moodyís Investors Service have been increasingly concerned about their ability to pay it back. But current fiscal reforms, including a thorough audit of local government debt announced in July, are also intended to ìcentralize budgetary decisions and discipline local government borrowing behaviors,î the Credit Suisse analysts explained. The first reaction to the rise of China was all about the positivesóevidenced by the swooning excitement about an enormous new market for foreign companies to penetrate. Weíre now seeing the second, which is concern over what kind of negative effects the new economic giant might wreak on the rest of the world should it run into trouble. But the reality is that in value-added terms, Chinaís economy just isnít yet as important to the global economy as those it seeks to displace. A continued economic recovery in the North Atlantic matters much more than Chinaís move in the other direction.
REUTERS/Kyodo An aerial view shows workers wearing protective suits and masks work at a construction site (C) of the shore barrier to stop radioactive water from leaking into the sea, at the tsunami-crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Fukushima, in this photo taken by Kyodo August 9, 2013. Highly radioactive water from Japan's crippled Fukushima nuclear plant is pouring out at a rate of 300 tons a day, officials said on Wednesday, as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe ordered the government to step in and help in the clean-up. The revelation amounted to an acknowledgement that plant operator Tokyo Electric Power Co (Tepco) has yet to come to grips with the scale of the catastrophe, 2 1/2 years after the plant was hit by a huge earthquake and tsunami. Tepco only recently admitted water had leaked at all.TOKYO (Reuters) - The operator of Japan's crippled Fukushima nuclear plant is preparing to remove 400 tons of highly irradiated spent fuel from a damaged reactor building, a dangerous operation that has never been attempted before on this scale. Containing radiation equivalent to 14,000 times the amount released in the atomic bomb attack on Hiroshima 68 years ago, more than 1,300 used fuel rod assemblies packed tightly together need to be removed from a building that is vulnerable to collapse, should another large earthquake hit the area. Tokyo Electric Power Co (Tepco) is already in a losing battle to stop radioactive water overflowing from another part of the facility, and experts question whether it will be able to pull off the removal of all the assemblies successfully. "They are going to have difficulty in removing a significant number of the rods," said Arnie Gundersen, a veteran U.S. nuclear engineer and director of Fairewinds Energy Education, who used to build fuel assemblies. The operation, beginning this November at the plant's Reactor No. 4, is fraught with danger, including the possibility of a large release of radiation if a fuel assembly breaks, gets stuck or gets too close to an adjacent bundle, said Gundersen and other nuclear experts. That could lead to a worse disaster than the March 2011 nuclear crisis at the Fukushima plant, the world's most serious since Chernobyl in 1986. No one knows how bad it can get, but independent consultants Mycle Schneider and Antony Froggatt said recently in their World Nuclear Industry Status Report 2013: "Full release from the Unit-4 spent fuel pool, without any containment or control, could cause by far the most serious radiological disaster to date." Tepco has already removed two unused fuel assemblies from the pool in a test operation last year, but these rods are less dangerous than the spent bundles. Extracting spent fuel is a normal part of operations at a nuclear plant, but safely plucking them from a badly damaged reactor is unprecedented. "To jump to the conclusion that it is going to work just fine for the rest of them is quite a leap of logic," said Gundersen. The utility says it recognizes the operation will be difficult but believes it can carry it out safely. Nonetheless, Tepco inspires little confidence. Sharply criticized for failing to protect the Fukushima plant against natural disasters, its handling of the crisis since then has also been lambasted. Last week, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe ordered the government to take a more active role in controlling the overflow of radioactive water being flushed over the melted reactors in Units 1, 2 and 3 at the plant. GIANT FRAME The fuel assemblies are in the cooling pool of the No. 4 reactor, and Tepco has erected a giant steel frame over the top of the building after removing debris left behind by an explosion that rocked the unit during the 2011 disaster. The structure will house the cranes that will carry out the delicate task of extracting fuel assemblies that may be damaged by the quake, the explosion or corrosion from salt water that was poured into the pool when fresh supplies ran out during the crisis. The process will begin in November and Tepco expects to take about a year removing the assemblies, spokesman Yoshikazu Nagai told Reuters by e-mail. It's just one installment in the decommissioning process for the plant forecast to take about 40 years and cost $11 billion. Each fuel rod assembly weighs about 300 kilograms (660 pounds) and is 4.5 meters (15 feet) long. There are 1,331 of the spent fuel assemblies and a further 202 unused assemblies are also stored in the pool, Nagai said. Almost 550 assemblies had been removed from the reactor core just before the quake and tsunami set off the crisis. These are the most dangerous because they have only been cooling in the pool for two and a half years. "The No. 4 unit was not operating at the time of the accident, so its fuel had been moved to the pool from the reactor, and if you calculate the amount of cesium 137 in the pool, the amount is equivalent to 14,000 Hiroshima atomic bombs," said Hiroaki Koide, assistant professor at Kyoto University Research Reactor Institute. Spent fuel rods also contain plutonium, one of the most toxic substances in the universe, that gets formed during the later stages of a reactor core's operation. INADVERTENT CRITICALITY "There is a risk of an inadvertent criticality if the bundles are distorted and get too close to each other," Gundersen said. He was referring to an atomic chain reaction that left unchecked could result in a large release of radiation and heat that the fuel pool cooling system isn't designed to absorb. "The problem with a fuel pool criticality is that you can't stop it. There are no control rods to control it," Gundersen said. "The spent fuel pool cooling system is designed only to remove decay heat, not heat from an ongoing nuclear reaction." The rods are also vulnerable to fire should they be exposed to air, Gundersen said. The fuel assemblies are situated in a 10 meter by 12 meter concrete pool, the base of which is 18 meters above ground level. The fuel rods are covered by 7 meters of water, Nagai said. The pool was exposed to the air after an explosion a few days after the quake and tsunami blew off the roof. The cranes and equipment normally used to extract used fuel from the reactor's core were also destroyed. Tepco has shored up the building, which may have tilted and was bulging after the explosion, a source of global concern that has been raised in the U.S. Congress. The utility says the building can withstand shaking similar to the quake in 2011 and carries out regular structural checks, but the company has a credibility problem. Last month, it admitted that contaminated water was leaking into the Pacific Ocean after months of denial. The fuel assemblies have to be first pulled from the racks they are stored in, then inserted into a heavy steel chamber. This operation takes place under water before the chamber, which shields the radiation pulsating from the rods, can be removed from the pool and lowered to ground level. The chamber is then transported to the plant's common storage pool in an undamaged building where the assemblies will be stored. Tepco confirmed the Reactor No. 4 fuel pool contains debris during an investigation into the chamber earlier this month. Removing the rods from the pool is a delicate task normally assisted by computers, according to Toshio Kimura, a former Tepco technician, who worked at Fukushima Daiichi for 11 years. "Previously it was a computer-controlled process that memorized the exact locations of the rods down to the millimeter and now they don't have that. It has to be done manually so there is a high risk that they will drop and break one of the fuel rods," Kimura said. Under normal circumstances, the operation to remove all the fuel would take about 100 days. Tepco initially planned to take two years before reducing the schedule to one year in recognition of the urgency. But that may be an optimistic estimate. "I think it'll probably be longer than they think and they're probably going to run into some issues," said Murray Jennex, an associate professor at San Diego State University who is an expert on nuclear containment and worked at the San Onofre nuclear plant in California. "I don't know if anyone has looked into the experience of Chernobyl, building a concrete sarcophagus, but they don't seem to last well with all that contamination." Corrosion from the salt water will have also weakened the building and equipment, he said. And if an another strong earthquake strikes before the fuel is fully removed that topples the building or punctures the pool and allow the water to drain, a spent fuel fire releasing more radiation than during the initial disaster is possible, threatening about Tokyo 200 kilometers (125 miles) away. When asked what was the worst possible scenario, Tepco is planning for, Nagai said: "We are now considering risks and countermeasures." (Additional reporting by James Topham and Mari Saito; Writing by Aaron Sheldrick; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan)
flickr/Louish PixelAfter most major Asian exchanges closed in the red Thursday, European stock markets and U.S. stock futures are headed lower. Right now, S&amp;P 500 futures are down around 0.5% (chart). In Europe, the German DAX is down 0.6%, the London FTSE is 0.7% lower, while the French CAC 40 is down 0.3% and the Spanish IBEX 35 is off 0.1%. Overnight in Asia, the Japanese Nikkei 225 closed down 2.1%, the Hong Kong Hang Seng was flat, and the Shanghai Composite fell 0.9%. There aren't many economic data releases scheduled today until we get to the U.S. calendar, which sees six data points ‚Äì CPI, initial claims, Empire State and Philly Fed manufacturing surveys, industrial production, and NAHB housing ‚Äì out between 8:30 and 10 AM ET. Also of note is Wal-Mart's Q2 earnings release at 7.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingBerkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett pauses during a bridge game in Omaha May 5, 2013 the day after the company's annual meeting.Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate run by Warren Buffett, just filed its 13F, detailing its holdings in various stocks at the end of the second quarter. According to the filing, Berkshire entered into new positions in Dish Network, purchasing 547,312 class A shares,¬†and Suncor Energy (17,769,457 shares) in the second quarter. Berkshire also unloaded all 1,740,231 shares it held of newspaper company Gannett.
China's millionaires, a symbol of the country's growing wealth, increased at their slowest rate in five years in 2012 as the economy and stock market stumbled, a survey showed. The number of millionaires -- defined as those with personal wealth of at least 10 million yuan ($1.6 million) -- rose just three percent year-on-year to 1.05 million, said the independent Hurun Research Institute and consultancy GroupM Knowledge. The number of "super-rich" Chinese -- with personal wealth of at least 100 million yuan -- went up only two percent to 64,500, also the slowest pace in five years, according to the survey released on Wednesday. flickr: world economic forumThe slowdown came as growth in the world's second largest economy slipped to a 13-year low of 7.8 percent in 2012. Only a quarter of Chinese millionaires were "very confident" about the domestic economy in the coming two years, the survey showed, down from 28 percent in 2011 and nearly half of those questioned in 2010. China's economic growth slipped further to 7.7 percent in the January-March period this year and slowed to 7.5 percent in the second quarter, raising alarm bells over possible deeper weakness. Beijing, the nation's capital and political centre, had the highest number of millionaires with 184,000, or 17.5 percent of total, the survey said, ahead of the financial hub Shanghai on 147,000. Stock market sluggishness also contributed to the slower growth of the wealthy population, with the Shanghai exchange's benchmark index gaining only 3.17 percent last year. About 15 percent -- 160,000 -- of Chinese millionaires named stock investments as their main source of wealth, down five percent from 2011, according to the survey. Real estate remained Chinese millionaires' top investment choice despite government regulations aimed at cooling the market, the survey said, but they had a growing tendency to seek such investments overseas.
