http://video.cnbc.com/gallery/?video=3000039042David BiancoDeutsche Bank's David Bianco made a name for himself by making bold bullish calls when no one else would. Once again, Bianco finds himself alone when he says, "sequestration is good for stocks." Sequestration is the series of $85 billion worth of spending cut that'll ripple across the U.S. government starting on March 1. In his latest note to clients, Bianco continues to reiterate his stock market bullishness in the face of the sequester: At 1520, the S&amp;P is 5% from our 1600 yearend target. However, we maintain our tactical call that the next 5%+ price move is most likely UP. Earnings season was good (see pages 3-7 for our S&amp;P 500 EPS Tracker) but attention will now turn to the March 1 sequester. We do not fear sequestration. It will lower the deficit and sideline the risk of a US credit rating downgrade or bond market dislocations. If new legislation delays or replaces sequestration with only token 2013 cuts, then we would likely advise positioning for a 5%+ S&amp;P dip that hits Financials and Energy the most. As you can see in the chart below, his most optimistic scenario is trimmed sequestration, which relatively makes sense. However, what's more counter-intuitive is his call that stocks would still go up with the full sequester. Deutsche Bank "Don‚Äôt fear sequestration, significant spending cuts are desired for stocks," he wrote in a note last month.¬† "Another can-kick invites new risks, whereas sequestration will prevent US credit rating downgrades and keep the Fed accommodative." Another gutsy call from Bianco.¬† 

The reason that the Italian election is interesting -- and thus the reason I'm going to cover it -- is that we're seeing a country where the government has gotten borrowing costs down, but the real economy is going into the toilet. For some perspective, here are two slides from Morgan Stanley (out of a recent chartbook) that show the dismal state of the Italian economy. Basically you've got: Declining GDP, tightening credit standards, a decrease in the capitol stock, and surging unemployment. A real horror show all around. Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley
floridapfe / FlickrStocks closed at a new post-crisis high today. Meanwhile, earnings growth expectations, which are the most important drivers of stocks, continue to fall. "Since the end of the fourth quarter (December 31), analysts have also reduced earnings growth expectations for Q1 2013 (to -0.04% from 2.4%) and Q2 2013 (to 5.1% from 6.5%)," wrote FactSet's John Butters in a note published on Friday. The current negative Q1 earnings growth expectation compares to last week's expectation for modest growth. When stocks go up while earnings come down, valuations are rising in a phenomenon called multiples expansion.¬† In other words, stocks are getting more expensive. And the stock market bears who based their theses on falling earnings are being made for fools. Interestingly, today's stock market rally came in the wake of what was arguably a disappointing housing report. So, what gives? Last week as he wrote about his expectation for a near-term sell-off, JP Morgan's Tom Lee suggested that resilience in the face of bad news could be a sign of changing market mentality. "We see the biggest challenge to our view as the possibility that equity markets are not negatively affected by bad news and continue to strengthen through 1H," he wrote¬† "And this could be a result of a change in the market‚Äôs character. If investor confidence strengthens, there may be less volatility." Perhaps we are witnessing a structural change in investor sentiment. Anyways, here's the chart from Factset showing stocks rising as quarterly earnings estimates fall: FactSet Here's a chart from Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker, which shows how full-year earnings growth expectations have been coming down.¬† As you can tell from the chart title, Parker expects this downward trend to continue: Morgan Stanley
Paid over $4.00 a gallon this weekend.† This high this early in the year brings the gas price back on the macro radar screen. The EIA notes, Gasoline expenditures in 2012 for the average U.S. household reached $2,912, or just under 4% of income before taxes, according to EIA estimates.† This was the highest estimated percentage of household income spent on gasoline in nearly three decades, with the exception of 2008, when the average household spent a similar amount. Lower end consumer getting clocked.† Keep it on your radar. EIA (click here if chart is not observable)   Read more posts on Global Macro Monitor ª
Niccolo Caranti In this coming weekend's Italian election, there's obviously a lot of attention paid to Silvio Berlusconi, and whether or not he'll make a strong, comeback showing. But the politician that a lot of folks are watching is Beppe Grillo, the head of his own "Five Start Movement" party, which has a very strong populist, anti-Eurozone, anti-banker bent. If he has a huge showing in the election -- and the last polls had him in 3rd place, even ahead of Mario Monti -- then that could cause a major political disturbing. Anyway, he had a huge rally in Milan tonight. Anywhere between 70k-100k showed up to hear him. Today, Milan: Beppe Grillo' rally. Quite worrying #italyvote twitter.com/FGoria/status/‚Ä¶
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) ‚Äî Revel, the casino many people had hoped would turn around Atlantic City's sagging fortunes, said Tuesday that it will file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in March, less than a year after opening. The voluntary, pre-packaged bankruptcy envisioned for late March will wipe away about two-thirds of its $1.5 billion in debt by converting more than $1 billion of it into equity for lenders. Kevin DeSanctis, Revel's CEO, said the restructuring will give the casino resort more flexibility to operate. "Today's announcement is a positive step for Revel," DeSanctis said. "The agreement we have reached with our lenders will ensure that the hundreds of thousands of guests who visit Revel every year will continue to enjoy a signature Revel experience in our world-class facility." Existing management will remain in place, no layoffs are planned, and employees and vendors will be paid as usual, the company said. The restructuring should be completed by early summer, it added. The $2.4 billion casino never caught on as much as it had expected to, and it remained mired toward the bottom of Atlantic City's 12 casinos in terms of casino revenue. Revel had to line up two rounds of additional financing since August to keep operating. In January, it posted its second-worst month, winning less than $8 million from gamblers. During the second and third quarters of last year, it reported gross operating losses of $35 million and $37 million. Revel officials have been reviewing their options in recent months as the Atlantic City market continued to decline and its own revenues remained stuck in neutral. DeSanctis said the company and its lenders decided that a prepackaged Chapter 11 would be the best way to improve its balance sheet by eliminating substantial debt and increasing the changes for growth. It is the latest in a series of recent bankruptcies involving Atlantic City casinos. Trump Entertainment Resorts emerged in 2010 from the third Chapter 11 bankruptcy that it or its corporate predecessors had filed, and the Tropicana Casino and Resort was sold that same year out of bankruptcy court to billionaire Carl Icahn. As part of the restructuring, some of Revel's lenders will provide approximately $250 million in debtor-in-possession financing, about $45 million of which constitutes new money commitments and approximately $205 million of which is pre-petition debt. No taxpayer funds will be used to finance the restructuring, the casino said. The company didn't identify which lenders will be part of the filing; it only said "a majority" of its lenders have agreed. Michael Garrity, Revel's chief investment officer, said carrying less debt will help Revel operate. "The reduction of debt service expense this agreement facilitates will greatly improve Revel's cash flow to better support day-to-day operations," he said. Both he and DeSanctis said they are optimistic about Revel's prognosis heading into its second summer. Revel opened in April as a potential game-changer, the first new casino built in Atlantic City since the Borgata Hotel Casino &amp; Spa opened in 2003. Revel was designed as a destination resort, an ambitious, risky project in a declining market. It saw itself not as a casino resort but as a resort that happened to have a casino. But the distinction seemed to have been lost on many customers, who found its restaurants and hotel rooms pricey. The project had to overcome numerous obstacles before its opening. Three key executives working on the project died in a Minnesota plane crash in July 2008; a worker pouring concrete was struck by lightning and killed in 2011. The project ran out of money during the recession and had to stop construction halfway through. Morgan Stanley pulled out, taking a $1.2 billion loss on the project. It only got completed with the help of state tax incentives that were approved in February 2011. From the start, Revel did things differently. It is the only one of Atlantic City's 12 casinos that banned smoking completely. Its workforce is largely nonunion, a fact that earned it the undying enmity of Local 54 of the Unite-HERE union, representing most of the city's casino workers. It is the only casino in Atlantic City to fully embrace the ocean, with floor-to-ceiling views of the coast that are considered a no-no in other gambling halls, where the prevailing thought is to keep gamblers focused on gambling. It eschewed bus tours and, for the most part, day-tripping gamblers, focusing much more intently on customers it could woo for two- and three-night stays, as well as business meeting and convention bookings. Revel has more than 2,000 slot machines, nearly 100 table games, electronic tables and a poker room. It booked some of the biggest names in show business, starting with a four-night run of Beyonce concerts in May for its grand opening weekend. It also booked Aerosmith, Kanye West and The Eagles. But even those top-name acts didn't generate enough gambling revenue to pull the casino out of a hole. ___ Wayne Parry can be reached at http://twitter.com/WayneParryAC
Japanese stocks are up strongly early in the Asian trading session. The Nikkei is up a solid 1.0 percent. For a moment, the Nikkei even passed 11,500.† According to Dow Jones, this is the first time the Nikkei touched this level since September 2008. This comes after a January trade report that showed a bigger-than-expected jump in exports. Here's the intraday chart from Bloomberg: Bloomberg
I'm flying to Italy tomorrow night. I'll be spending 3 nights in Milan, and then 3 nights in Rome, all to cover the Italian election. Why is the Italian election worth covering? Well for one thing, elections are always fun events. But for another thing, the election has big implications for Europe, and it basically all comes down to this chart. It's the yield on the Italian 10-year bond, which peaked in late 2011, as the Euro crisis was raging. That peak coincided with the resignation of Silvio Berlusconi. Bloomberg Well, Berlusconi is trying to make a comeback, and though he's not favored to win, he's more competitive than people expected at the beginning of the year. Basically, the government of Berlusconi's replacement (Mario Monti) has been effective at getting borrowing costs down, and the type of stuff that bankers like. But unemployment is raging, there's no economic upturn in sight, and the public is angry. In a nightmare scenario, establishment candidates lose big, populists win big, Italian borrowing costs soar, the ECB is forced to step in, the Germans are furious and all the progress that's been made in recent months goes away. It may be a longshot, but it's an interesting enough possibility that it's worth paying attention to. So tomorrow I'll be off to meet bankers, politicians, workers, and anyone else in Italy with a story to tell. If you're going to be in Milan or Rome over the next week, email me: jweisenthal@businessinsider.com and let's meet up.
binder.donedat / FlickrThe January Japanese trade numbers are out. Exports increased by 6.4 percent, which was better than the 5.6 percent gain expected by economists. Exports to the U.S. and China grew by 10.9 percent and 3 percent, respectively.¬† However, exports to the E.U. fell by 4.5 percent. These numbers are crucial for Japan as its economy is largely driven by exports. Imports surged by 7.3 percent, which was much higher than the 2.1 percent gain expected. As such, the trade deficit widened to ¬•1.63 trillion, which was wider than the ¬•1.38 trillion gap expected.
Six FlagsWednesday is busy day for economic indicators. Key European inflation and employment indicators will be released as East Coasters sleep tonight. And when they awaken, there's a book U.S. housing report scheduled to come out before the bell. Several top U.S. companies are posting earnings reports tomorrow. Here's what you need to know (all times ET): Below are the top companies that will be posting fourth-quarter earnings reports before markets open tomorrow, along with consensus estimates from Bloomberg:
As the markets once again approach historic highsóthe overly exuberant tone, extreme complacency and weakness in the economic data, bring to mind Bob Farrell's 10 investment rules.† These rules should be a staple for any long term successful investor.† These rules are often quoted yet rarely heededójust as they are now.† Bob Farrell is a Wall Street veteran with over 50 years of experience in crafting his investing rules.† Farrell obtained his masters degree from Columbia Business School and started as a technical analyst at Merrill Lynch in 1957. Even though Farrell studied fundamental analysis under Gramm and Dodd, he turned to technical analysis after realizing there was more to stock prices than balance sheets and income statements. Farrell became a pioneer in sentiment studies and market psychology. His 10 rules on investing stem from personal experience with dull markets, bull markets, bear markets, crashes and bubbles. In short, Farrell has seen it all and lived to tell about it. The 10 Rules Of Investing 1. Markets tend to return to the mean (average price) over time. Like a rubber band that has been stretched too far ñ it must be relaxed in order to be stretched again. This is exactly the same for stock prices which are anchored to their moving averages.† Trends that get overextended in one direction, or another, always return to their long-term average. Even during a strong uptrend or strong downtrend, prices often move back (revert) to a long-term moving average. The chart below shows the S&amp;P 500 with a 52-week simple moving average. Street Talk Live The bottom chart shows the percentage deviation of the current price of the market from the 52-week moving average.† During bullish trending markets there are regular reversions to the mean which create buying opportunities.† However, what is often not stated is that in order to take advantage of such buying opportunities profits should have been taken out of portfolios as deviations from the mean reached historical extremes.† Conversely, in bearish trending markets, such reversions from extreme deviations should be used to sell stocks, raise cash and reduce portfolio risk rather than "panic sell" at market bottoms. The dashed RED lines denote when the markets changed trends from positive to negative. This is the very essence of portfolio "risk" management. 2. Excesses in one direction will lead to an opposite excess in the other direction. Markets that overshoot on the upside will also overshoot on the downside, kind of like a pendulum. The further it swings to one side, the further it rebounds to the other side. This is the extension of Rule #1 as it applies to longer term market cycles (cyclical markets). While the chart above showed prices behave on a short term basis - on a longer term basis markets also respond to Newton's 3rd law of motion:† "For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction."†† The first chart shows that cyclical markets reach extremes when more than 3-standard deviations above the 50-week moving average.† For the first time since the lows of the market in 2009 this has now occurred.† Notice that these excesses ARE NEVER worked off by just going sideways. Street Talk Live The second chart shows the price reversions of the S&amp;P 500 on a long term basis and adjusted for inflation. Notice that when prices have historically reached extremes ñ the reversion in price is just as extreme. It is clear that the current reversion in the stock market is still underway from the 2000 peak. Street Talk Live 3. There are no new eras ñ excesses are never permanent. There will always be some "new thing" that elicits speculative interest.† These "new things" throughout history, like the "Siren's Song," has led many investor to their demise. In fact, over the last 500 years we have seen speculative bubbles involving everything from Tulip Bulbs to Railways, Real Estate to Technology, Emerging Markets (5 times) to Automobiles and Commodities.†† It is always starts the same and ends with the utterings of "This time it is different"† [The chart below is from my March 2008 seminar discussing that the next recessionary bear market was about to occur.] Street Talk Live As legendary investor Jesse Livermore once stated: "A lesson I learned early is that there is nothing new in Wall Street. There can't be because speculation is as old as the hills. Whatever happens in the stock market today has happened before and will happen again." 4. Exponential rapidly rising or falling markets usually go further than you think, but they do not correct by going sideways The reality is that excesses, such as we are seeing in the market now, can indeed go much further than logic would dictate. However, these excesses, as stated above, are never worked off simply by trading sideways. Corrections are always just as brutal as the advances were exhilarating. As the chart below shows when the markets broke out of their directional trends ñ the corrections came soon thereafter. Street Talk Live 5. The public buys the most at the top and the least at the bottom. The average individual investor is most bullish at market tops and most bearish at market bottoms.† This is due to investor's emotional biases of "greed" when markets are rising and "fear" when markets are falling.† Logic would dictate that the best time to invest is after a massive selloff - unfortunately this is exactly the opposite of what investors do. The chart below shows the flow of money into equity based mutual funds. Street Talk Live 6. Fear and greed are stronger than long-term resolve. As stated in Rule $5 it is emotions that cloud your decisions and affect your long-term plan. "Gains make us exuberant; they enhance well-being and promote optimism," says Santa Clara University finance professor Meir Statman.† His studies of investor behavior show that "Losses bring sadness, disgust, fear, regret. Fear increases the sense of risk and some react by shunning stocks." The composite index of bullish sentiment (an average of AAII and Investor's Intelligence surveys) shows that "greed" is beginning to reach levels where markets have generally reached intermediate term peaks. Street Talk Live In the words of Warren Buffett: "Buy when people are fearful and sell when they are greedy." Currently, those "people" are getting extremely greedy. 7. Markets are strongest when they are broad and weakest when they narrow to a handful of blue-chip names. Breadth is important. A rally on narrow breadth indicates limited participation and the chances of failure are above average. The market cannot continue to rally with just a few large-caps (generals) leading the way. Small and mid-caps (troops) must also be on board to give the rally credibility. A rally that "lifts all boats" indicates far-reaching strength and increases the chances of further gains. Street Talk Live The chart above shows the ARMS Index which is a volume-based indicator that determines market strength and breadth by analyzing the relationship between advancing and declining issues and their respective volume.† It is normally used as a short term trading measure of market strength.† However, for longer term periods the chart shows a weekly index smoothed with a 34-week average.† Spikes in the index has generally coincided with near-term market peaks. 8. Bear markets have three stages ñ sharp down, reflexive rebound and a drawn-out fundamental downtrend Bear markets often start with a sharp and swift decline. After this decline, there is an oversold bounce that retraces a portion of that decline. The longer term decline then continues, at a slower and more grinding pace, as the fundamentals deteriorate. Dow Theory suggests that bear markets consists of three down legs with reflexive rebounds in between. Street Talk Live The chart above shows the stages of the last two primary cyclical bear markets.† There were plenty of opportunities to sell into counter-trend rallies during the decline and reduce risk exposure.†† 9. When all the experts and forecasts agree ñ something else is going to happen. This rule fits within Bob Farrell's contrarian nature.† As Sam Stovall, the investment strategist for Standard &amp; Poor's once stated: "If everybody's optimistic, who is left to buy? If everybody's pessimistic, who's left to sell?" The point here is that as a contrarian investor, and along with several of the points already made within Farrell's rule set, excesses are built by everyone being on the same side of the trade.† Ultimately, when the shift in sentiment occurs ñ the reversion is exacerbated by the stampede going in the opposite direction. Street Talk Live Being a contrarian can be quite difficult at times as bullishness abounds.† However, it is also the secret to limiting losses and achieving long term investment success. As Howard Marks once stated: "Resisting ñ and thereby achieving success as a contrarian ñ isn't easy. Things combine to make it difficult; including natural herd tendencies and the pain imposed by being out of step, since momentum invariably makes pro-cyclical actions look correct for a while. (That's why it's essential to remember that "being too far ahead of your time is indistinguishable from being wrong.") Given the uncertain nature of the future, and thus the difficulty of being confident your position is the right one ñ especially as price moves against you ñ it's challenging to be a lonely contrarian." 10. Bull markets are more fun than bear markets As stated above in Rule #5 ñ investors are primarily driven by emotions. As the overall markets rise ñ up to 90% of any individual stockís price movement is dictated by the overall direction of the market hence the saying ìa rising tide lifts all boats.î Psychologically, as the markets rise, investors begin to believe that they are ìsmartî because their portfolio is going up. In reality, it is primarily more a function of ìluckî rather than ìintelligenceî that is driving their portfolio. Investors behave much the same way as individuals who addicted to gambling. When they are winning they believe that their success is based on their skill. However, when they began to lose, they keep gambling thinking the next ìhandî will be the one that gets them back on track.† Eventually - they leave the table broke. Street Talk Live It is true that bull markets are more fun than bear markets. Bull markets elicit euphoria and feelings of psychological superiority. Bear markets bring fear, panic and depression. What is interesting is that no matter how many times we continually repeat these ìcyclesî ñ as emotional human beings we always ìhopeî that somehow this ìtime will be different.î Unfortunately, it never is and this time wonít be either. The only questions are: when will the next bear market begin and will you be prepared for it? Conclusions Like all rules on Wall Street, Bob Farrell's rules are not meant has hard and fast rules. There are always exceptions to every rule and while history never repeats exactly it does often "rhyme" very closely. Nevertheless, these rules will benefit investors by helping them to look beyond the emotions and the headlines.† Being aware of sentiment can prevent selling near the bottom and buying near the top, which often goes against our instincts. Regardless of how many times I discuss these issues, quote successful investors, or warn of the dangers ñ the response from both individuals and investment professionals is always the same. ìI am a long term, fundamental value, investor.† So these rules donít really apply to me.î No youíre not. Yes, they do. Individuals are long term investors only as long as the markets are rising.† Despite endless warnings, repeated suggestions and outright recommendations - getting investors to sell, take profits and manage your portfolio risks is nearly a lost cause as long as the markets are rising.† Unfortunately, by the time the fear, desperation or panic stages are reached it is far too late to act and I will only be able to say that I warned you.
YoutubeAmerica's booming crude production industry has done amazing things for the economy. It's created jobs. It's balanced budgets. Some argue it's even gotten presidents elected. But all that production is never really going to lower Americans' gas prices ó which recently screamed higher ó because we are competing with the entire world for the oil that it comes from. In recent years, American gasoline has been priced to Brent,† the international benchmark for oil.† That's in part because because we've produced so much crude that the old benchmark, West Texas Intermediate, has de-coupled from Brent and now trades at a severe discount ó we've discussed this elsewhere. But the main reason why our oil is now priced to Brent is that a lot of other folks around the world are now demanding it.† And while we've explained why many peak oil theories are misguided, oil is nevertheless a finite resource that's going to be dictated by basic economics. "Once [oil] is able to make its way to coast, it goes to highest bidder," AAA's Avery Ash told us. "That's simply a byproduct of a free market. It holds true for oil, wholesale gasoline, any number of products." One more point: in order for gas prices to go down, we'd have to lower our consumption of crude to reduce prices.† Here's a table showing domestic crude production and total consumption. The former is less than half the latter: † EIA As a result, America will continue to import much of its oil, and therefore be subject to Brent crude price movements. "For the foreseeable future, [Brent] will still be the price," the EIA's James Preciado told us.
Update: We have a follow up to this post. The January housing starts report is scheduled for release at 8:30 a.m. ET tomorrow. Economists expect housing starts to decline to a pace of 914,000 units. Millan Mulraine at TD Securities is looking for a print of 910,000 units because of the "cold snap across the country during the month." He expects permit approvals however to rise to 920K. One of the few concerns about U.S. housing recovery is that building has been outpacing the sales of new homes.¬† As such, there are fears that new home construction is only adding to the inventory of new homes, which could cause prices to stall. Mulraine pointed out this worrisome trend back in October. He reiterates this concern in a note today: "New residential construction activity has been on a strong upswing, with the pace of housing starts surging to a new cycle high in December. While the rebound in building activity over the past year is largely consistent with the improved tone in housing market activity more generally, the 31% spike in construction since July appears to have gone slightly ahead of the market‚Äôs capacity to absorb it. "In fact, with potential buyers continuing to be lured into the existing homes market where distressed properties have offered compelling bargains, the actual pace of new home sales has been disappointing, rising by only 14% over the same period." This chart from TD Securities shows just why some experts are worried. TD Securities
In a blog post published Monday, New York Times Public Editor Margaret Sullivan said the Times' February 8 review of the Tesla Model S was flawed by "not especially" good judgement and imprecise note-taking. The post, on the Public Editor's Journal, addressed the debate generated by reporter John Broder's negative review, which Tesla CEO Elon Musk described as "fake."¬† Sullivan criticized Broder for "taking what seem to be casual and imprecise notes along the journey," leaving him "open to valid criticism." She had harsh words for Musk as well, arguing that he used the digitally recorded driving logs "in the most damaging (and sometimes quite misleading) ways possible." In a February 13 blog post, Musk provided data from those logs, which he used to claim that the review "[did] not factually represent Tesla technology." In other words, he felt Broder rigged the drive to make the Model S run out of power on the road. In the Atlantic Wire, Rebecca Greenfield wrote that Musk's arguments don't really hold up. Sullivan said she believes Broder undertook the test drive "in good faith, and told the story as he experienced it." Sullivan also noted there are few clear conclusions to be drawn from her analysis of the review and its aftermath. But the conversation sparked by the review and Musk's response quickly moved beyond the details of the driving logs and journalistic practice. Instead, it shifted to the remarkable achievement the Model S represents, on one hand, and the significant obstacles facing electric vehicles on the other. The conclusion of that debate, not John Broder or any other journalist, will decide Tesla's future.

WikimediaThe FBI is investigating suspicious trades that occurred just prior to Berkshire Hathaway's announcement that it was buying Heinz, the New York Times Ben Protess reports. A flurry of unusual options trades were made a day before Berkshire Hathaway and PE firm 3G Capital agreed to buy Heinz. Last week, the SEC announced it had frozen a Swiss bank account allegedly linked to a¬†$1.7 million gain from the trades. ‚ÄúThe F.B.I. is consulting with the S.E.C. to see if a crime was committed,‚Äù an F.B.I. spokesman told Protess.¬† Read the full story on NYTimes.com &gt;
South Korea faces "final destruction" if Seoul and its allies continue to push for tougher UN resolutions against North Korea's nuclear programme, Pyongyang warned Tuesday. "We have never recognised the propagandist resolutions on sanctions by the UN Security Council," North Korean envoy Jon Yong Ryong told a session of the UN Conference on Disarmament. "As the saying goes, 'a newborn puppy knows no fear of a tiger.' South Korea's erratic behaviour could only herald its final destruction," he insisted. North and South Korea traditionally trade barbs at the UN forum -- which meets regularly in Geneva and focusses on a raft of global arms-control issues. But in the wake of North Korea's latest nuclear test last week and a global outpouring of condemnation, the rhetoric was unusually high-pitched Tuesday. South Korea's ambassador, Kwon Haeryong, hit back. He said that Pyongyang's secretive regime would do better to ensure a better life for its people, in a country which has suffered intermittent famines in the past two decades. "Everybody knows that North Korea is committing enormous resources to developing nuclear weapons and a missile capability. But it is very regrettable that a chronic food shortage persists and continually threatens people," Kwon said. "Those Korean people are in a dire situation because of the bad allocation of their resources. The North Korean regime has continued to ask for humanitarian assistance from the international community. Considering this, we urge North Korea to focus on improving the living conditions for its entire people," he said. Last week's test was North Korea's most powerful to date, with Pyongyang claiming a breakthrough with a "miniaturised" device. North Korea's secretive regime repeatedly has rejected international calls to halt its nuclear programme, belittling international sanctions. Jon also slammed the United States, blaming the superpower for the current stand-off with his country -- known officially as the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, or DPRK. "The DPRK nuclear test is just a measure for self-defence, to cope with intensified US nuclear blackmail against it," he said. "It is the disposition and firm will of the army and people of the DPRK to counter a high-handed policy with the toughest policy and react to pressure and sanctions with an all-out counter action," he added. "The DPRK does not make any empty talk. It will take the toughest measure against foreign aggressors and violation of sovereignty in the future," he insisted. The US ambassador, Laura Kennedy, said North Korea's remarks would be "offensive and unacceptable" in any setting, let alone at a conference dedicated to disarmament. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
On Friday, Bloomberg reported on leaked emails between Wal-Mart executives describing February sales as a "total disaster" ñ the worst monthly start in at least seven years. The executives cited the effects of the expiration of payroll tax cuts, which they believe are weighing on consumer spending. However, there is at least one reason to believe that the news is a bit of a fluke. As we noted on Friday, Miller Tabak economist Andrew Wilkinson suggested a link between the weak numbers and tax refunds (emphasis added): Second is the delay to tax refunds due to year-end complications from the fiscal cliff. The IRS delayed the filing process to the end of January and as a result early filers accustomed to receiving refund checks are running behind schedule this year. According to a one source, tax refunds this time one year ago were running at $19 billion. Perhaps†Wal-Mart†didnít sell as many flat-screen televisions in February as they did a year ago on account of delayed filings and subsequent delays to refund checks. Today, UBS economists led by Maury Harris put some numbers to that theory. They note that through the first two weeks of February, 2013 tax refunds total $55 billion ñ down 28 percent from last year. The chart below shows the difference. UBS, US Treasury Harris writes (emphasis added): The weakness mainly stems from a delayed filing season this year. The†IRS officially began the filing season on January 30 this year versus January 17†last year due to the changes in tax code as part of the fiscal cliff deal. There has†only been roughly 10 days of refunds issued this year versus about 17 days in†2012. However, recently the pace of refunds has picked up. For the first 10 days of†this yearís filing season (thru Feb 14) versus the 10 first days of last yearís season (thru Feb 6), refunds are running a cumulative $55 bil versus $37 bil last year. Admittedly, that comparison is not perfect, but what appears to have been a†headwind for the consumer in late-Jan/early-Feb now appears to be turning into a tailwind as refunds are picking up the last few days. According to the IRS: ìLast†year, the IRS issued more than nine out of 10 refunds to taxpayers in less than 21†days, and it expects the same results in 2013.î According to Harris, "Tax refunds are an anticipated annual recurring event and thus are more likely to†affect consumption than temporary swings in tax rates and gasoline prices." Jefferies analyst Daniel Binder has the same theory. In a note following the leak, he wrote: Delayed tax refunds likely causing some temporary pain. While we have not yet conducted checks in February, our January checks indicated softness in the last week of the month. With the payroll tax increase and delay in tax refunds (more on that below) adding further pressure, it seems reasonable that Walmart sales could have fallen short of expectations so far this month. We suspect the same holds true for other retailers serving middle to lower income consumers as well.  Putting things into perspective... While the payroll tax increase is likely to create pressure on consumer spending all year long, it is important to not underestimate the significance of the delay in tax refunds. At February 3 (beginning of the retail month for most retailers) there were $22.4 billion fewer tax refunds y-y. To put that into perspective, that equates to 8.5% of February retail sales last year. Now imagine that hitting all in a week or two... the impact is much greater. We are convinced this early Feb weakness will reverse and the wrong thing to do now is panic with knee jerk selling on the broad group. Clearly not all tax refunds get spent, and our analysis is for illustrative purposes, but it helps put things into perspective.  More up to date numbers include $77.5 billion in tax refunds as of February 14 versus $55 billion last year, so there is still a $22.5 billion gap, but that is down from a $39.3 billion gap on February 6. The gap should continue to reverse through the tax filing season and shorter term we would expect to see some stabilization in retail spending. For more detail, go to http://www.fms.treas.gov/dts/index.html† If that is the case, perhaps Wal-Mart will be pleasantly surprised with March sales figures.
The analysts at Goldman Sachs recently published a report on how behavioral biases basically screw up every aspect of the investment process. For example, take Wall Street's forecasts for revenue growth. "[T]op-line variability is consistently underestimated," they write. "Consensus revenue growth forecasts will typically start in the 5%-6% range for the market at large, but the true outcome almost always turns out to be a significantly higher or lower level. While nine of the last ten yearsí consensus revenue growth forecasts have been initially in the 5%-6% range, no year saw actual growth within that range." "Clustering at mediocrity," they write.† "Analysts are reluctant to take a significant view on growth ahead of the date (conservatism, risk aversion), and/or are anchoring to economists who themselves are making the same mistake." Here's the chart they include that shows how top-line growth rates almost always start at the same place, but very greatly throughout the year. Goldman Sachs
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America has awarded its CEO Brian Moynihan 926,238 shares of restricted stock worth more than $11 million for 2012, according to a filing (via Bloomberg TV). Moynihan's pay package in 2011 was $7 million. CNBC's Kayla Tausche reports that the BofA board approved to increase his base salary to $1.5 million. It had been $950,000.¬† Now let's compare his 2012 comp to the rest of the Street.¬† Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein took home $21 million¬†for 2012.¬†JPMorgan's CEO Jamie Dimon took home $11.5 million following the "London Whale" trade debacle. Meanwhile,¬†Jefferies awarded its CEO¬†Richard Handler¬†$19 million in compensation for 2012.
Photo: Courtesy of LearnvestWhen I moved abroad three and a half years ago for work, it wasn‚Äôt really part of my original life plan. My partner, Alex, and I made the decision to leave the United States over sushi one night in our Brooklyn neighborhood based largely on our circumstances at the time. I was unhappy at my job. Our landlord wasn‚Äôt going to renew our apartment lease. The economy had just tanked. We didn‚Äôt have children. And we both had a desire to try something new after living in New York City for six years. Why I Regret Giving Up My Career for My Spouse I Sold Everything to Travel the World Why I Left My Career In Finance for a Nonprofit So the choice was made: Alex would request a transfer through his company to their offices in Shanghai, China. We‚Äôd stay six months. Perhaps a year, at most. The decision was as strategic as it was born out of a sense of adventure‚Äîwe figured that both of us could advance our careers in Asia, where there was a surfeit of opportunity and a shortage of talent. Plus, we hoped that working (and saving) in Asia for a few years would put us in a better position when we returned to the U.S. to eventually buy a house, and possibly adopt a child. We weren‚Äôt the only ones in this position. The¬†State Department¬†estimates that 6.3 million Americans are studying or working abroad‚Äîthe largest number ever recorded. And even more plan to go: Two years ago, only 1% of Americans planned to move overseas. Today,¬†five times as many¬†are thinking about relocating abroad. A move of this magnitude, however, is never quite that straightforward. And, if I‚Äôve learned anything after three international moves in three years (and counting ‚Ä¶), plans have a way of changing once you finally decide to pull up roots. The first hiccup in our well-conceived plan was a change in destination. ‚ÄúShanghai isn‚Äôt an option anymore,‚Äù Alex told me one day, mere weeks before our scheduled departure. ‚ÄúBut we can go to London if we want!‚Äù Lesson one in moving abroad: Learn to be flexible. The corporate redirect wasn‚Äôt so drastic in the end‚Äîwe were both more than happy to go to England. Plus, neither one of us had cracked open our Mandarin books. Thinking that we were still leaving for a year, at most, we packed up our apartment and moved nearly everything we owned into a long-term storage facility in New Jersey, where the rates were significantly cheaper than in Brooklyn. We only took with us what we could fit into four giant duffel bags that could be checked on the plane‚Äîsweaters were a priority, summer-wear not so much. This made financial sense in the short-term‚Äîwe saved money by not shipping an entire household overseas, and many flats in London could be leased with furniture. The tradeoff was saying a tearful goodbye to our things, not knowing when we‚Äôd be able to use that KitchenAid stand mixer again. In London, we rented a tiny apartment for three months to start, before deciding it was smarter to sign an actual lease on a place‚Äîeven though we didn‚Äôt know how long we‚Äôd be staying.¬†Not only would this be cheaper‚Äîshort-term lets are harder to come by and therefore priced higher‚Äîbut it was also important to feel like we had a home to mitigate the feeling of being adrift somewhere unfamiliar. Plus, with a six-month break clause in our lease, there wasn‚Äôt a huge risk financially. Cost-wise, the British capital wasn‚Äôt as expensive as I‚Äôd feared. The rent where we lived in East London was comparable to New York, and we got more space for the money.¬†There were other life set-up costs‚Äîutilities, mobile phones, health-care plans, the countless trips to IKEA‚Äîbut they were roughly the same expenses we would have paid living in America. We learned quickly how to save on the small things in an expensive city. I took the bus to work nearly every day, and cooked at home more frequently than I did in New York‚Äîrestaurants were costlier in London, by and large. We also relied on Skype for phone calls home. Our biggest expense was travel‚Äîwe weren‚Äôt about to compromise with all of Europe so close by! But we traveled wisely ‚Ä¶ most of the time. Speed cameras on rural English country roads were definitely a financial pitfall. After a year, Shanghai became an option again and we were faced with yet another major life decision: Do we return to job uncertainty in a shaky economy back in New York or uproot ourselves once again and take a chance on Asia‚Äôs biggest boomtown? Three main factors were instrumental in steering us toward China‚Äîsheer momentum, the excitement of a different kind of adventure ‚Ä¶ and the fact that we had packed lightly. Professionally, it made sense for both of us, as well. We had opportunities in Shanghai that probably didn‚Äôt exist elsewhere for the mere reason that every major global corporation wants a stake in China these days‚Äîand Shanghai is the new gateway to the country. Alex became a managing director at a consultancy that was growing steadily and expanding. I was able to turn freelance writing and editing into a successful small business‚Äîthere were far fewer English-speaking writers in Shanghai than in New York or London, and foreign publications couldn‚Äôt get enough stories from China. Plus, we believed that we could save some money in China, too. The cost of living in Shanghai was well below that of New York‚Äîor most cities in the West, for that matter. A taxi ride might set us back $2, and we could usually eat out for under $30 ‚Ä¶ for the two of us. We even had the luxury of hiring an¬†ayi‚Äîa woman who cleaned and cooked for about $150 per month. We never could have afforded this back home! When the time came earlier this year to decide if we wanted to transfer yet again with Alex‚Äôs work to Singapore, the choice was much easier to make. Although the physical act of moving never becomes less tiring or onerous‚ÄîI have come to loathe the sound of packing tape being unrolled‚Äîand we have far more belongings now than when we left Brooklyn (including an adopted street cat from China named Hongbao), the idea of picking up and starting over again is way less frightening. Singapore is also a city with massive opportunities for foreigners, so we knew that we‚Äôd be able to keep saving‚Äîeven despite the fact that it has a higher cost of living than Shanghai. Three years into this journey, we also came to a very important conclusion: We were tired of living out of duffel bags, and wanted our KitchenAid stand mixer. So, for this move, we unpacked the storage unit in Mahwah, and shipped our things to Singapore. In some respects, it feels like our old life in Brooklyn again, surrounded by our books, photos and well-worn furniture ‚Ä¶ except for when the¬†Asian koel¬†(a Singapore bird with a very distinctive cry)¬†starts to sing in the morning, and I‚Äôm wishing for just five more minutes of sleep. Justin Bergman is a freelance writer currently based in Singapore. He is a frequent contributor to TIME, The New York Times and The Associated Press. He also teaches through Stanford University‚Äôs Online Writer‚Äôs Studio. Love reading other people‚Äôs financial tales? Check out more great LearnVest-exclusive¬†personal stories.
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderNutritional and weightloss supplement seller Herbalife just beat fourth-quarter earnings estimates and raised its sales guidance. Herbalife posted $1.05 EPS. Sales came in at $1.1 billion, according to the earnings release. On average, analysts polled by Bloomberg expected the multi-level marketing firm to post an adjusted EPS of $1.03 on sales of $1.049 billion.¬† The stock is up slightly in after-hours. Here's an excerpt from the release: Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) today reported fourth quarter net sales of $1.1 billion, reflecting an increase of 20 percent compared to the same time period in 2011 on volume point growth of 18 percent. Net income for the quarter of $117.8 million, or $1.05 per diluted share, compares to 2011 fourth quarter net income of $105.4 million and EPS of $0.86, respectively. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, the company reported record net sales of $4.1 billion, an 18 percent increase on 20 percent growth in volume compared to 2011. For the same period, the company reported net income of $477.2 million, or $4.05 per diluted share, reflecting an increase of 16 percent and 23 percent, respectively, compared to the 2011 results of $412.6 million and $3.30 per diluted share. ‚ÄúHerbalife continues to deliver record results in sales and profitability as our independent distributors go deeper into existing markets, developing more and more customers using our nutrition products every day,‚Äù said Michael O. Johnson, Herbalife‚Äôs chairman and CEO. ‚ÄúObesity and poor nutrition are global public health problems. Our distributors are proud to be part of the solution.‚Äù For the year ended December 31, 2012 the company generated cash flow from operations of $567.8 million, an increase of 11 percent compared to 2011; paid dividends of $135.1 million; invested $122.8 million in capital expenditures; and repurchased $527.8 million in common shares outstanding under our share repurchase program. Herbalife Here's the part about raising guidance. ¬†Note a short-seller (a.k.a. Bill Ackman) is mentioned in the release.¬† Updated 2013 Guidance Guidance for fully diluted 2013 EPS is based on the average daily exchange rates of January 2013, which in aggregate are not materially different from the foreign currency exchange rates assumed in our prior guidance. Our 2013 guidance continues to assume a Venezuelan exchange rate of 10 to 1. The guidance does not include the one-time impact associated with the revaluation of our bolivar denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities, which includes our bolivar denominated cash, due to the recent devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar, or any potential one-time impact from a future devaluation or the repatriation of existing cash balances. Guidance for the year also excludes one-time costs of $10 million to $20 million, mostly legal and advisory services, relating to the Company‚Äôs response to information put into the marketplace by a¬†short seller which information the Company believes to be inaccurate and misleading. Based on current business trends the company‚Äôs first quarter fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2013 guidance is provided below. Herbalife Herbalife has become one of the most controversial stocks lately. That's because hedge fund titan Bill Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management, has publicly declared that he's shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife with a price target of $0. ¬†The premise of his thesis is that he believes Herbalife is a pyramid scheme and regulators will be induced to investigate the company. Herbalife has denied Ackman's claims saying he used "outdated" and "inaccurate information" when putting together his massive 342-slide short case presentation.¬† This stock has also created a hedge fund clash of the titans. On the long side, hedge fund hot-shot Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC, disclosed an 8.24% stake in the company back in January. ¬†Loeb is said to have pared back some of his stake, but still remains one of the largest shareholders, according to CNBC's Scott Wapner. In addition, legendary billionaire investor Carl Icahn, who is a long time Ackman rival,¬†disclosed a 12.98% stake¬†in Herbalife which includes¬†shares underlying call options. Click here to refresh this post for updates &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsEvery day, public and private data-gathering agencies publish economic reports that are widely reported on by the business media. GDP, manufacturing, and labor market data all help to inform us about what's going on in the economy ‚Äì but there are other things we can look at to supplement our view. Some of the more unusual ones we've come across include the Guns-to-Caviar Index, Tylenol usage, and the Mosquito Bite Indicator. Eric Platt helped compile the research for this feature.
First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,035.67, +53.91, +0.39%S&amp;P 500: 1,530.94, +11.15, +0.73%NASDAQ: 3,213.59. +21.56, +0.68% And now the top stories:
Last week, the largest yacht in the world sailed up the Hudson River and docked near midtown Manhattan. The outrageously fancy "Eclipse" belongs to Roman Abramovich, the Russian billionaire who owns Chelsea Football Club. No reason for the Eclipse's NYC stay, at Pier 90, has been offered by Abramovich or NYCruise, which operates the pier. But it may be about a baby: Abramovich's girlfriend, Dasha Zhukova, is expecting a child in the Spring, and dock workers have said the yacht is scheduled to stick around until mid-April. NYCruise touts itself as "home to the world's most spectacular ó often fastest, biggest, and most luxurious ó cruise ships," a fitting home for the Eclipse. NYCruise is operated by the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which declined to comment on the Eclipse, and pointed us to David Keller, the President of Trans-Atlantic Agencies. Keller said he could not discuss the arrangement, due to a non-disclosure agreement. He did note, however, that the Eclipse is docked at the only spot in lower Manhattan big enough to hold her. A security guard at Pier 92, also operated by NYCruise, said the yacht belongs to a Russian named Roman, but offered no other information. The yacht is in impressive company: Its neighbor is the Norwegian Star, the 965-foot cruise ship. On the other side of the Star is the Intrepid, the retired aircraft carrier turned museum. The 533-foot Eclipse has two swimming pools, two helicopter pads, and a mini-submarine. It is equipped with a missile defense system and bullet-proof windows around Abramovich's suite, according to the Daily Mail. There are 24 guest cabins, and the yacht is kept in order by an enormous, 70-member crew, according to Superyachts.com. The yacht, built by Blohm + Voss in Germany, was delivered to Abramovich in December 2010, for nearly $1.5 billion, the Daily Mail reported. The Eclipse made port at St George's Harbour in Bermuda on January 29, the Bermuda Sun reported, and arrived in New York on February 13. Here are a few more photos of the yacht, taken from shore: Alex Davies / Business Insider Alex Davies / Business Insider Alex Davies / Business Insider
Britain's four largest banks face more than ¬£9bn of losses as a result of pending legal actions, according to analysts at Credit Suisse. Royal Bank of Scotland has the largest unfunded bill of ¬£3.5bn, largely as a result of the cost of compensating customers who were mis-sold financial products and the potential size of a settlement over its involvement in the sale of sub-prime US mortgages. Credit Suisse estimates that the combined losses of UK banks that are not already covered by explicit provisions is ¬£9.2bn, or 60pc of the total facing Europe‚Äôs largest lenders. In the case of RBS, its total provision against the litigation costs identified by the Credit Suisse analysts is just ¬£600m compared with a figure of ¬£2bn set aside by Barclays. The analysts warned that even these large costs could be an underestimate of the bill . ‚ÄúWe are only looking at issues that are known at present ‚Äì there are likely to be issues in future that we are not aware of at this stage, but we have not tried to take these into account,‚Äù said Credit Suisse. Mis-selling provisions have become one of the largest costs to the industry, with the bill for payment protection insurance compensation expected to exceed ¬£12bn and redress for businesses mis-sold interest-rate hedging products already reaching more than ¬£1bn and expected to at least double. One of the biggest as yet unquantified costs for banks could come from the legal cases related to Libor-rigging, with Barclays and RBS already settling with the US and British authorities over their involvement in the scandal. Banks are also facing legal action from their own investors over capital-raisings during the financial crisis, amid allegations that some lenders misrepresented their financial position to investors. RBS declined to comment. 
DOHA (Reuters) - Qatar will create a new $12 billion investment firm, backed by blue-chip assets from its sovereign wealth fund, and list it on the local stock exchange, its main institutional backer said on Tuesday. Qatar Holding - the investment arm of the Qatari sovereign fund - said the new firm will invest in assets around the world. "You name it - shares, bonds, real estate, private equity. We will look at every sector in every country around the world," Hussain al-Abdullah, Qatar Holding's vice-chairman, said at a news conference. Qatar Holding, believed to have assets in excess of $100 billion, has been the most active of the region's sovereign wealth funds in recent years, deploying the Gulf nation's riches from plentiful natural gas to buy stakes in companies ranging from German sports car maker Porscheto British bank Barclaysand Swiss lender Credit Suisse. "Listing a company of this magnitude will stimulate more wealth distribution down the line. It will give Qataris a chance to be part of the country's growth and will bring in sophisticated foreign investors once it's listed," said R. Seetharaman, chief executive of Doha Bank. Qatar Holding will transfer $3 billion worth of assets into the new firm, with a similar amount raised in an initial public offering on the Qatar Exchange. A source familiar with the matter said a further $6 billion will be raised at a later date. "The rationale is very simple. Diversify assets and let the people of Qatar enjoy the state's power in global markets," said a second source familiar with the deal. TRANSPARENCY "The company will run independently from Qatar Holding," the second source said. "Its board will be represented by Qatar Holding and members from the private sector. Once the board is in place, a new CEO and management will be appointed." Some bankers expressed doubt over whether the company could be launched as quickly as Qatar hopes. "The announcement is pretty surprising, and it's a brave move by Qatar. Most of their investments are either bespoke or in listed entities. There is a risk that it may open up their books significantly," a senior banking source in Dubai said. The IPO is open only to Qataris, but foreign investors will be able to buy in later. Qatar Holding's investments are widely seen as opportunistic, not following a specific strategy, as it has purchased a wide range of assets globally. Qatar, the world's richest country per capita, has also invested in other Arab states partly to boost its political clout. The sovereign fund had a rate of return of 17 percent last year, Qatar Holding's Abdullah said on Tuesday. "This is a global investment company to invest overseas, not in Qatar," he said, adding it planned to guarantee a 5 percent dividend in its first year. It was not immediately clear which assets would be transferred to the new firm, called Doha Global Investment Company. The first source said Qatar Holding would spin off $3.5 billion worth of assets into the firm at a discount value of $3 billion. The assets will include local as well as global assets, the second source said. Abdullah, who is also a board member of the Qatar Investment Authority, said the listing would take place in six to eight weeks on the Qatar Exchange, which seeks to rival Dubai as a financial hub. "We don't see an immediate rationale for a move like this, other than maybe sharing the wealth of the nation with citizens, but they have a lot of other companies in petroleum, steel, water treatment which should go (public) first," the Dubai banking source said. Credit Suisse, in which the sovereign wealth fund owns a 6.2 percent stake, is advising Qatar Holding. (Additional reporting by Mirna Sleiman and Dinesh Nair in Dubai; Writing by Amran Abocar; Editing by Keiron Henderson and Jane Baird) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
DOHA (Reuters) - Qatar will create a new $12 billion investment firm, backed by blue-chip assets from its sovereign wealth fund, and list it on the local stock exchange, its main institutional backer said on Tuesday. Qatar Holding - the investment arm of the Qatari sovereign fund - said the new firm will invest in assets around the world. "You name it - shares, bonds, real estate, private equity. We will look at every sector in every country around the world," Hussain al-Abdullah, Qatar Holding's vice-chairman, said at a news conference. Qatar Holding, believed to have assets in excess of $100 billion, has been the most active of the region's sovereign wealth funds in recent years, deploying the Gulf nation's riches from plentiful natural gas to buy stakes in companies ranging from German sports car maker Porscheto British bank Barclaysand Swiss lender Credit Suisse. "Listing a company of this magnitude will stimulate more wealth distribution down the line. It will give Qataris a chance to be part of the country's growth and will bring in sophisticated foreign investors once it's listed," said R. Seetharaman, chief executive of Doha Bank. Qatar Holding will transfer $3 billion worth of assets into the new firm, with a similar amount raised in an initial public offering on the Qatar Exchange. A source familiar with the matter said a further $6 billion will be raised at a later date. "The rationale is very simple. Diversify assets and let the people of Qatar enjoy the state's power in global markets," said a second source familiar with the deal. TRANSPARENCY "The company will run independently from Qatar Holding," the second source said. "Its board will be represented by Qatar Holding and members from the private sector. Once the board is in place, a new CEO and management will be appointed." Some bankers expressed doubt over whether the company could be launched as quickly as Qatar hopes. "The announcement is pretty surprising, and it's a brave move by Qatar. Most of their investments are either bespoke or in listed entities. There is a risk that it may open up their books significantly," a senior banking source in Dubai said. The IPO is open only to Qataris, but foreign investors will be able to buy in later. Qatar Holding's investments are widely seen as opportunistic, not following a specific strategy, as it has purchased a wide range of assets globally. Qatar, the world's richest country per capita, has also invested in other Arab states partly to boost its political clout. The sovereign fund had a rate of return of 17 percent last year, Qatar Holding's Abdullah said on Tuesday. "This is a global investment company to invest overseas, not in Qatar," he said, adding it planned to guarantee a 5 percent dividend in its first year. It was not immediately clear which assets would be transferred to the new firm, called Doha Global Investment Company. The first source said Qatar Holding would spin off $3.5 billion worth of assets into the firm at a discount value of $3 billion. The assets will include local as well as global assets, the second source said. Abdullah, who is also a board member of the Qatar Investment Authority, said the listing would take place in six to eight weeks on the Qatar Exchange, which seeks to rival Dubai as a financial hub. "We don't see an immediate rationale for a move like this, other than maybe sharing the wealth of the nation with citizens, but they have a lot of other companies in petroleum, steel, water treatment which should go (public) first," the Dubai banking source said. Credit Suisse, in which the sovereign wealth fund owns a 6.2 percent stake, is advising Qatar Holding. (Additional reporting by Mirna Sleiman and Dinesh Nair in Dubai; Writing by Amran Abocar; Editing by Keiron Henderson and Jane Baird) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Iron ore is the key ingredient used to make steel. The majority of the seaborne trade, that is, iron to be shipped to other countries, goes to China. An oligopoly exists today whereby China is forced to rely on Big 3 producers Vale, Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton for over 60% of its imports at arguably inflated costs. This is primarily because domestic Chinese production is very high cost and very low grade. Given 7 of the worldís top 11 steel producers are Chinese, it is rational to assume Chinaís appetite for foreign sources of iron ore will remain strong for the foreseeable future.†We published an article on February 1, 2013, titled†ìWuhan Iron to buy more overseas mining assetsî†because we felt that this was a strong signal that Canadian iron ore resources will be on investorsí and steelmakersí radar over the next few years. In the article, Government owned Wuhan Iron and Steel (Group) Corp, Chinaís fourth-largest steelmaker by output, said it plans to achieve 100% self-sufficiency in three to five years and abandon its heavy reliance on the Big 3 by investing directly in iron ore resources in Canada and Brazil. Chinese steelmakers have been looking to Canada, and in particular the Labrador Trough, as a source for high quality long term supply of iron ore in a safe jurisdiction. Steel companies typically invest in smaller owners of iron ore resources, and enter into an offtake agreement to purchase a portion of their mine production. Wuhan and Chinaís largest steelmaker, Hebei Steel, have already made investments in projects in the Labrador Trough. We decided to take a closer look at some of the iron companies in Canada. Most are large and well established and therefore out of our junior filter. Of the juniors, one stood out because of its large valuation gap, which caused us to take a closer look. CEO.caHopes Advanceís competitive advantage is its location on the coast. Product will be transported directly from the processing plant onto a ship using a concentrate pipeline with no need for any rail reducing the average life-of-mine operating costs to an estimated $30.18 / tonne, which is firmly in the lowest quartile of operating costs for iron ore producers globally. CEO.caOceanic Iron Ore Corp. (FEO.V) is the company that owns the Hopes Advance project and it currently has a ~$35M market cap, which indicates that investors arenít paying much attention to FEOís $5.63B pre-tax NPV. The next critical step for Oceanic is securing the right strategic partner to assist with the $2.85B capital build to put the project into production. No easy feat in this market. We had an opportunity to meet with the Oceanic senior-management team and get some of their perspectives on the project. We spoke with Steven Dean, Chairman and CEO, and Alan Gorman, President and COO. Our conversation focused on the reasons why Oceanic should be able to attract a strategic partner. The partner Dean and his management team are looking for will likely be a Chinese or other global steel company looking to secure a long term high quality iron ore supply with scale at a low operating cost in order to help to satisfy long term supply requirements and provide leverage in negotiations with the Big 3. Oceanic believes its Hopes Advance project is very competitive in todayís iron ore market. ìThose [projects] that have low operating costs and high-quality large-scale reserves always stand head and shoulders above the peer group, not only domestically, but globally, and thatís what we have,î Gorman told us. ìThe team understands that the project needs a partner to keep advancing,î Dean told us, ìClearly, the next catalyst for value will be when we secure our strategic partner because with that partner comes the capacity to finance and therefore make the NPV of $5.6B that much closer to reality.î Oceanicís Pre-Feasbility Study†was released in October 2012 and, since then, the management team has been evaluating the iron and steel space for potential partners. Dean and Gorman tell us that there are 30-50 companies capable of partnering with a project like this, and the company is engaged in discussions with 10-12 parties currently. With the†announcement†last week that CN is delaying, and may walk away from, the rail feasibility study that would serve the transportation needs of many other development stage iron ore projects in Canada, Oceanicís ìno rail advantageî and control over its own infrastructure and schedule, certainly look more compelling today than before. Dean is the former President of Teck Cominco (now Teck Resources), and was a member of the founding management team of Normandy Mining, helping to build both multi-billion dollar resources companies. Gorman has over 30 yearsí experience developing projects in the North, including Jien Canada Miningís Nunavik Nickel project and Canadaís most famous iron ore venture, Baffinlandís Mary River project. CEO.caOne of the largest shareholders is resource mogul†Frank Giustra. ìMy average cost in†FEO†is higher than where the shares trade today and I am with the company for the long term,î Giustra told us. U.S Global Investors†is another noteworthy shareholder. Chief Executive Frank Holmes commented, ìWe look for strong proven leadership and Steven Dean is in the top 1% of his peers. We also look for the optionality of a large iron ore resource which Oceanic demonstrates in a mining friendly community. This is why we are large investors.î When we made the decision to invest in an iron project, we chose Oceanic for three reasons: value gap, projected lowest quartile operating costs globally, and management. Recent†insider buying†gives us the confidence that this was a worthwhile decision. Watch highlights from our†video interviews†and take a closer look at†Oceanic Iron Ore Corp.  FEO Corporate Presentation -&gt;Hopes Advance PFS -&gt;Stock Quote -&gt;
Bloomberg TVThis morning, we saw that the homebuilder sentiment index unexpectedly fell to 46 in January from 47 in December. This disappointing report might actually be more good than bad. You see, home construction has been hot, and this has been reflected by surging homebuilder optimism. But new home sales have been lagging. December new home sales fell 7.3 percent on the month in January to an annual rate of 369,000. This divergence had led to concerns that new home supply would pile up potentially delivering a blow to the housing recovery.† This is because declining inventory has been one of the key factors that helped boost home prices and drive the U.S. housing recovery. Today's decline in homebuilder sentiment could be evidence that there isn't a bubble-mentality among the builders. Still, sentiment is high. But in a January note, Bank of America's Michelle Meyer explained that she sees three reasons not to worry about optimistic homebuilders that will overbuild.† Meyer has previously warned that (overall) inventory tends to build up in the first quarter when the weather is better and before school begins. "Sellers therefore tend to put their home on the market in anticipation of the spring selling season," she said in an email interview. "This means inventory rises at the beginning of the year and falls through the spring/summer as sales are completed."
dredoggie/instagramDuring the State of the Union address President Barack Obama proposed raising the hourly minimum wage $1.75, from $7.25 to $9.00.¬† This would be a significant move, and conveniently there's an immense amount of research available pertaining to its effects.¬† Studies found that an increase in the minimum wage didn't generally lead to mass terminations of employees, but also may lead to a decrease in the number of teenagers in the workforce. We also know that a number of major companies rely on minimum wage employees. We know that the U.S. minimum wage is low compared to other rich nations, and that the proposed hike would bring the current minimum wage in line with historical levels.¬† One major result of a hike in the minimum wage is that it has a similar impact as a stimulus package, a study from the Chicago Federal Reserve Bank found. Essentially, households impacted by a $1.00 increase in the minimum wage use that additional revenue to make purchases of large durable goods, often home appliances and especially cars. This net effect has a positive impact on the economy in the quarters following a minimum wage increase.¬† It's clear that adult workers largely benefit from the hike, big box retailers and chain restaurants would have to make adjustments, and retailers of large durable goods tend to see immediate sales benefits. Still a major question that hangs over the debate is the impact that a hike in the minimum would have on small businesses.¬†¬† A 2006 study from the Fiscal Policy Institute found that states with minimum wages above the federal level had faster small business and retail job growth. ¬† Here's how small businesses fared in states with a state minimum wage hike compared to states that just kept the federal minimum in the years of interest: ¬† Fiscal Policy Institute Small businesses in states where minimum wage was higher than in surrounding areas saw faster growth, more employees and a higher annual payroll growth.¬† The performance is even more significant in the small business retail sector: Fiscal Policy Institute While the 40 states without a higher minimum wage saw a contraction in the number of establishments, states with a higher minimum wage saw slight growth.¬† Even more, small businesses in states with higher minimum wage performed better in all categories.¬† The prevailing wisdom that higher wages hurts small business owners doesn't really hold up.¬†
Flickr / K=kristiewellseFinancial Careers Sarah Butcher has a fascinating piece on how to let a significant other know you got a really crappy bonus this year.¬† The two best pieces of advice come from a pair of former Goldman Sachs traders.¬† From eFinancial Careers:¬† 5. Try to impress with the actual wads of cash Anton Kreil, the ex-Goldman Sachs trader-turned¬†trader-teacher,¬†suggested that the best way to communicate a penurious bonus to a spouse would be to withdraw the bonus from the bank and to present it to him/her in bundles of notes. ‚ÄúMoney always looks like a lot more when you actually see it physically,‚Äù said Kreil. ‚ÄúIf I had a disappointing bonus, I‚Äôd withdraw it all and give it to my wife for her to count.‚Äù 6. Make it clear that you‚Äôre really suffering too¬† If you‚Äôre bonus is bad, you should try to evince empathy in your spouse, advised Lex Van Dam, another ex-Goldman trader. ‚ÄúCome in with tears in your eyes and look like you‚Äôre about to faint,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúShe‚Äôll immediately know and you won‚Äôt have to explain too much.‚Äù [Hat Tip: Dealbreaker's Bess Levin]
Bloomberg via YouTubeJoe LaVorgnaWith talk of "tail risks" ‚Äì like a hard landing in China, the U.S. going over the "fiscal cliff," or a country exiting the euro ‚Äì fading from the collective discussion, arguably the biggest open question for markets right now is when the Federal Reserve will begin to tighten monetary policy. Deutsche Bank economist Joe LaVorgna thinks the central bank could be ready to start slowing its quantitative easing program as early as June. In a note to clients today, LaVorgna writes: The Fed unexpectedly began discussing when to¬†diminish and terminate QE at last December‚Äôs FOMC meeting. These deliberations no doubt continued at the January meeting for which we get the minutes today. We do not expect the minutes to suggest the Fed is quite ready to¬†slow the pace of its $85 billion per month of open-ended Treasury and mortgage¬†purchases. After all, policymakers did not have the February employment report¬†when they met in late January, which showed decent job growth‚Äînonfarm payrolls were up +157k‚Äîand sizeable upward revisions‚Äîthe level of December¬†2012 employment is now about 650k higher than what was first reported. Simply put, not enough changed in the economic outlook between December and¬†January to constitute a material change in the Fed‚Äôs economic and financial¬†assessment. However, based on our GDP, unemployment and inflation¬†forecasts, we believe policymakers will eventually announce their intention to slow the pace of QE by June and to halt QE altogether by the end of¬†December. Note there are three more FOMC meetings between now and the end of June‚ÄîMarch 19-20 (press conference), April 30-May 1 and June 18-19 (press conference). We expect interest rates to rise when the Fed dials back its¬†purchases and then to rise further in the second half of this year in anticipation of¬†QE being completed. Concerns over ending QE were brought to the fore in early January, when the Fed released minutes from the December FOMC meeting. The minutes revealed a surprisingly hawkish sentiment inside the Fed with regard to QE: In considering the outlook for the labor market and the broader economy, a few members expressed the view that ongoing asset purchases would likely be warranted until about the end of 2013, while a few others emphasized the need for considerable policy accommodation but did not state a specific time frame or total for purchases. Several others thought that it would probably be appropriate to slow or to stop purchases well before the end of 2013, citing concerns about financial stability or the size of the balance sheet. One member viewed any additional purchases as unwarranted. Analysts like Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale's Sebastien Galy think this will be the big story of the second half of 2013. Galy wrote in a recent note to clients that once the market is able to anticipate a Fed tightening, which he thinks will happen "most probably" in the second half of this year, "we will see a rising U.S. Treasury¬†10-year yield drive all before it, leading to a brutal reallocation of risk." However, if LaVorgna is right, things could get interesting a lot sooner. At any rate, we may get more clues from the release of the minutes from the January FOMC meeting, due out Wednesday at 2 PM ET.
WikimediaJesse Livermore.Jesse Livermore†is perhaps the most famous stock trader of all-time. Back in the early part of the 20th century, Livermore made and lost millions shorting the market. "Reminiscences of a Stock Operator" by Edwin Lefevre, a fictionalized account of Livermore's path from small-time bucketeer to big-time stock trader, is one of the most widely-read and revered books on trading. In the introduction to a recent edition of "Reminiscences," William O'Neil, founder of Investor's Business Daily, wrote that, "in my 45 years of experience in this business, I have only found 10 or 12 books that were of any real value ó†Reminiscences†is one of them." Today, many in the market know Jesse Livermore from the pseudonymous Twitter account of the same name. And while the modern "Livermore" offers some some great market commentary, the real Jesse Livermore offered the most incisive commentary on markets, all of which still holds up today. Back in early 2013,†Raymond James strategist Jeff Saut reflected on Livermore in his weekly commentary, writing that, "Years ago I studied the tactics of Jesse Livermore, along with a number of other stock market operators, and have found many of those strategies to be as valid today as they were decades ago." In that commentary Saut included†Livermore's 21 trading rules, written in 1940.  More than 70 years later, these are rules every trader needs to keep in mind:
Everyone on Wall Street is talking about Nico Jackson, a tall, blue-eyed Deutsche Bank stockbroker. That's because he's dating Pippa Middleton, according to multiple press reports. She recently took him on vacation to Mustique, a small private island, to meet her parents and pregnant sister Kate, the Duchess of Cambridge,¬†according to the Daily Mail. Jackson, 35, works at Deutsche Bank in London. He doesn't come from the highest social class either. He grew up in Folkestone, Kent, attended non-elite schools and his father owns a ski shop, according to the Daily Mail.¬† Middleton¬†ended things with her financier beau Alex Loudon¬†back in 2011. Since that relationship ended, she has been spotted with¬†Thomas Kingston, who works at Schroders private bank, and¬†James Spencer Matthews, the CEO of¬†Eden Rock Capital Management.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisors Are Seeing 'Fear Fatigue' (The Wall Street Journal) Advisors say in the fear-greed battle, investors are finally dropping their fear. Individual investors are becoming more active in the stock market, while mutual fund companies are moving into both stocks and bonds.¬† Darell Krasnoff, managing director at Bel Air Investment Advisors said "I think we're seeing fear fatigue." He says this is "very early" in the shift away from fear but there is tremendous room for money to return to stocks and drive up prices. Why Value Investors Are Having Such A Tough Time (Advisor Perspectives) The time since the 2008 crash has been difficult for value investors and managers that buy stocks cheap and wait for the market to realize the actual value of the stock. During these volatile years, growth stocks have performed better.¬† There are four key reasons why value managers have underperformed the past few years. 1. "Mean reversion has been implied" 2. "Value traps are more prevalent" 3. "Security selection has become more difficult" 4. Value investors aren't patient enough. Bank Of America Attracts $24.3 Billion In New Assets, Competing With Traditional Account Managers (Bloomberg) Bank of America attracted a record $24.3 billion in new assets in 2012, up 28 percent year-over-year. Assets increased in its unit servicing retirement and other employee benefit plans, according to Bloomberg. Big banks are up against traditional account managers like Vanguard to attract the $3.5 trillion that Americans hold in their 401(k) retirement plans. Talk Of 'Great Rotation' Smacks Of The Complacency Surrounding The 'Great Moderation' Theme (Gluskin Sheff) "Talk of 'Great Rotation' smacks of the complacency surrounding the 'Great Moderation' theme of 2005-2006 when Wall Street pundits tried to convince the general public that the world's central banks had the business cycle licked. Look how well that theme turned out - it wasn't long thereafter that we endured the 'Great Recession'. And that ended too, by the way. "Beware of the term 'Great' at all times. It is the ultimate of contrary signposts. As David Berman so aptly puts it on page B12 of the Saturday Globe and Mail, 'ignoring Wall Street has never been a bad idea'." Tomorrow Will Be A Huge Day For Gold Investors (Deutsche Bank) Gold is down today after taking a beating on Friday. Deutsche Bank's Xiao Fu writes that this could be because of the drop in equity risk premium (expected rate of return of stocks over bonds), which is impacted by rising yields.¬† The recent rise in bond yields was driven by the December FOMC minutes which showed for the first time that the Fed was thinking of wrapping up QE by the end of 2013. The Fed will release the minutes of its January FOMC meeting on Wednesday and this could be key for gold investors.¬† "Our Economics team expects the Fed to begin unwinding its unconventional policy by ending QE purchases around Q4 this year. This could lead to higher yields and further headwinds for gold prices. Even so, the erratic nature of the recovery in U.S. real economy data indicates that real yields and the gold price will remain sensitive to Fed speak. Consequently the release of the FOMC minutes this Wednesday will provide important guidance on the U.S. monetary stance and thus gold prices in our view." Deutsche Bank, Bloomberg Finance LP
Part II ‚Äì Compound Interest and Wealth Part III ‚Äì Compound Interest and Consumer Debt Preamble In the last two posts I wrote about how, using the compound interest formula, you can compute precisely how large your money will grow over time, using compound interest.¬† If you assume a particular growth rate (aka yield, or rate of return) and you know how frequently your money compounds (monthly, quarterly, yearly) you can model into the future what your money will become. This post is about the reverse process, called discounted cash flows, and is ‚Äì in my humble opinion ‚Äì the most important piece of math for investing in anything.¬† The discounted cash flows formula is what you need to know in order to decide to invest in something today that will have some future value. Despite what the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex wants you to believe about the reasons to buy something, evaluating the true value of an investment depends on you knowing how to discount future cash flows.¬† The rest is just hype, spin, sales and marketing. And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle! What about discounted cash flows? First, let‚Äôs say what the formula is as, again, the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex does not want you to know this stuff. The discounted cash flows formula uses the exact same variables as compound interest, but ‚Äòin reverse,‚Äô solving for ‚ÄúPresent Value‚Äù instead of ‚ÄúFuture Value‚Äù Present Value = Future Value/ (1+Yield)N Where: Future Value is the known amount coming to you at some point in the future. Yield is the growth rate of money, also known as the discount rate. N is the number of times money gets compounded. Present Value is generally what you‚Äôre solving for when you use this formula. Most importantly when you figure out how to discount cash flows, a whole series of financial and macroeconomic questions become clearer. An example of a pension buyout showing the value of discounting cash flows The discounted cash flow formula is what you‚Äôd need to use, for example, if your company offered you a lump sum buyout instead of a life-time pension, as GM did to many workers in 2012, and as many companies frequently do to get rid of their future pension obligations.¬† Let‚Äôs say they offer you a $500,000 buyout.¬† Sounds like a big enough number to induce many people to take a buyout. Is the lump sum offer a good deal?¬† How would you know? If you could set up a spreadsheet to discount cash flows, you‚Äôd know precisely what kind of deal it is. You could add up the value of all of your future monthly pension payments, properly discounted by the formula above, and you could compare that to the amount GM‚Äôs pension department offered you. Let‚Äôs say you would normally receive a $36,000 per year pension for the rest of your life, and you expect to live for another 20 years, here‚Äôs what you would do. You might want to know the Discount rate, or Yield, on GM bonds to gauge the risk of the future pension, or you might want to just assume the government guarantees your pension, so you‚Äôd input a lower yield.¬† Let‚Äôs assume low, government guaranteed risk for this example and use a 2% yield to reflect government risk and moderate inflation.[1] Next year‚Äôs payment I‚Äôd calculate by the formula Present Value = $36,000 / (1+0.02)1, or $35,467.98 The following year‚Äôs pension payment I‚Äôd calculate as $36,000/(1+0.02)2, or $34,943.82 I can calculate all of these values easily in a spreadsheet, until I added up the 20th year‚Äôs amount, which is calculated as $36,000/(1+0.02)20, or $26,728.94 When I add up all 20 years the result is $588,651.60 Which one is bigger? Of course you can input different assumptions about your remaining life, and the discount rate, and even the pension amount, but all of this is to show that you need this tool to level the playing field and make good decisions. I guarantee you that GM‚Äôs financial officers know how to discount cash flows, and they‚Äôre negotiating from a position of extraordinary advantage against their retired workers who cannot discount cash flows. So, again, blame the math teachers.¬† And the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex. Please see earlier posts Part I ‚Äì Why don‚Äôt they teach this in school?, Part II ‚Äì Compound Interest and Wealth Part III ‚Äì Compound Interest and Consumer Debt And subsequent posts: Part V ‚Äì Discounted cash flows ‚Äì example of an annuity Part VI ‚Äì Conclusion and why everyone needs to know this math for the good of society [1] Really you can input whatever assumptions you want to derive a discounted cash flow.¬† Please don‚Äôt start a fight with me about whether 2% is the right assumption.¬† I‚Äôm just trying to show a math technique, not debate the proper discount rate for GM pensions. Post read (1633) times.
Flickr / ndrgrnd -old account#1The New York Post's Jane Ridley and Jennifer Wright have a fascinating piece about some hotels in New York City offering hourly rates for rooms during the workday through DayUse.com. The hotel rooms aren't just being used just for a nap, shower or shave, but for mid-day hookup sessions, according to the report.¬† And it sounds like people could keep these rendezvous on the down low.¬† From the Post: ...Clients book via e-mail, obviously a private one to which their spouse or employer has no access, and pay cash at check-in. No questions asked. ‚ÄúYou give them [the front desk] a pin number, which is sent via text message,‚Äù explains Lauren. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs no fuss, no raised eyebrows, and you just hand over the money.‚Äù She tells how her recent tryst stemmed from an in-joke between her and her latest hook-up, a 28-year-old financier whom she calls Matt. ‚ÄúHe was telling me about DayUse, and I thought it was hilarious that you could go somewhere like that for a couple hours,‚Äù recalls Lauren... Read the full Post story here &gt; SEE ALSO: Meet The Dominatrix Who Ties Up And Spanks Wall Streeters During Their Lunch Breaks &gt;
Wal-Mart's leaked emails could be just the beginning of bad news for the retail industry.† The emails, leaked by Bloomberg, revealed that Walmart executives were freaking out because people weren't shopping as much. But there's a fundamental problem that seems to be spreading throughout the discount industry as a whole: customers are broke.† Thanks to the recent payroll tax hike, the poorest are running out of money entirely,†reports Renee Dudley at Bloomberg.† ìItís not Wal-Mart specific,î†David Strasser, an analyst for Janney Montgomery Scott LLC told Dudley.†ìAnyone with any low-end exposure is going to feel this. That customer runs out of money every day as it is. Now theyíre really going to run out of money.î Family Dollar, Target, and grocery stores are experiencing a similar problem, Strasser told Bloomberg.† When the payroll-tax break expired at the end of last year, Americans started paying 2 percentage points more in Social Security taxes on their first $113,700 in wages, Dudley reported. That's $60 a month for someone making $40,000 a year.† Walmart shoppers are the "barometer of the U.S. consumer," Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Productions, told us. If the world's largest retail is struggling, other businesses definitely are.† "There's no reason to be optimistic," Sozzi told us.† The Wal-Mart emails "could indicate a broader issue," Dudley reported.† "Maybe the payroll tax is a bigger deal than any of us thought," Brian Yarbrough, an analyst at Edward Jones, told Bloomberg.†
Alex Wong / GettyFormer Republican Sen. Alan Simpson and former White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles are out today with a new plan to cut deficits by $2.4 trillion over the next decade. As the co-chairmen of President Barack Obama's deficit-reduction commission,¬†Simpson and Bowles proposed a bipartisan plan of tax increases and spending cuts that failed to catch on with the administration and Congressional leaders. Following the failure of their initial proposals, the pair detailed the new deficit-reduction strategy ‚Äî called¬†A Bipartisan Path Forward to Securing America's Future¬†‚Äî¬†as across-the-board sequestration cuts loom next week. An initial goal of their new plan is to avoid sharp austerity by averting the sequester. At the same time,¬†they seek to bring the national debt below 70 percent of GDP by the beginning of the 2020s. The package reduces the number of tax expenditures but lowers the marginal rate for individuals and corporations.¬† Bowles and Simpson also say they want to slow down the rising cost of health care, "replace dumb cuts with smart reforms," focus on the long-term and "make America better off tomorrow than it is today."¬† Here are the available details of how the plan claims to save $2.4 trillion over the next 10 years, based on the report: The next step of the program will address infrastructure investment caps, cut the federal health commitment to close to GDP growth and enact Social Security reform.¬†¬† 
BloombergTVCurrency wars? Forget it, says Jefferies managing director David Zervos ñ what we're about to witness is a "growth war" on a global level. Goldman made this subtle distinction earlier. It's not about currency devaluation per se, although that is a byproduct of the monetary easing underway in some of the world's biggest economies right now. On the contrary, it's a war over growth, Zervos writes in a note to clients, and it is a zero-sum game: If the US, the†Eurozone or Japan went full scale nuclear......there would be no†contest. Any one of these economic areas could extract significant†growth from the rest of the world by using the currency option. ... The objective for central bankers is to lower real rates†faster than the next guy ñ that is the essence of the growth war. The†country who gets there first wins the growth. At G7 and G20 meetings last week, world finance ministers ruled out intentional currency devaluations vis-a-vis other countries. So, with the era of currency wars drawing to a close, what does the "growth war" look like? Zervos writes: Going forward, the driving policy force for the bulk of the G20†countries will be Ben's beloved portfolio balance channel. The idea is†that central banks will use their balance sheets to reflate domestic†risk assets and drive investors into projects that will likely†generate real technological advance, real returns on capital, real†growth and real job creation. The option of foreign asset buying does†not utilize the "virtuous" portfolio balance channel; rather it simply†reaches across the border and grabs someone else's growth potential.†Of course modest currency fluctuations will occur as relative real†rate differentials move around, but these are second order effects.†There is to be no direct currency manipulation to engineer/steal†growth. That was the marching order! Thus, Zervos says, all currencies lose ñ so there's not much point in playing them against each other. "The trade is ALL currencies against real assets," writes Zervos. "Folks may make a†little money buying MXNJPY, selling EURAUD, or selling USDNOK; but the†big money will be made in Spoos, Nikkei and and Estoxx. Currency†trades are just a poor man's reflation trade!" Find more Zervos at Markit Hub &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsA group of Wesleyan seniors partied a little too hard at the Connecticut Science Center and got kicked out after just a few hours, News 8 reported Monday.¬† Several hundred seniors were reportedly hosting a party known as a senior cocktail, an event meant to bring the senior class together before graduation. News 8's report on the party is full of interesting allegations, including claims that students were found having sex and doing drugs in bathrooms and "at least one senior allegedly climbed a dinosaur exhibit." "It's a fun atmosphere. You're with your entire class, it's always supposed to be a good time," senior Kaya Ceci told News 8. Another senior reportedly vomited off a flight of stairs.¬† "The things that happened were sort of ridiculous," sophomore Sage Ryza told News 8.¬† Senior cocktails are normally held at a bar, which some have acknowledged are the more appropriate venue.¬† "It was kind of a questionable plan to bring a bunch of people to a science museum where there is definitely drinking going on," Charlie Smith told News 8.¬† In a statement emailed to Business Insider, science center spokeswoman Tracy Shirer confirmed Wesleyan University rented the center on Friday for about 500 people.¬† "After some incidents of unruly behavior, it was mutually agreed to end the event early," Shirer stated. "The guests cooperated and left." Check out News 8's report on the party: 
John Daugherty RealtorsDavid Hull is a managing partner at Centennial Ventures, a Texas-based venture capital firm. Hull and his wife, Stormy, bought a classically French manor surrounded by around an acre of land for $4.4 million in 2002. And now they want to sell after putting about $2 million into the home. (h/t WSJ) The nearly 8,200-square-foot chateau has four bedroom, 6 full bathrooms and 2 half-baths, according to the listing. Originally listed at $10 million in September 2009, the house is currently listed at $8 million with Claire Wilkins of John Daugherty Realtors.
However, the recent torrent of speeches by members of the "Federal Open Mouth Committee" may be confusing investors. The talking Fed heads all have put their own personal spins on what the central bank is doing and where it is going. Fed officials have said that their goal is to communicate better with the markets. However, their noise-to-signal ratio seems to be getting worse. On Valentine‚Äôs Day (2/14), FRB St. Louis President James Bullard spoke about phasing out QE: ‚ÄúThis suggests that as labor markets improve somewhat, the pace of asset purchases could be reduced somewhat, but not ended altogether,‚Äù he explained. ‚ÄúThis type of policy would send important signals to the private sector concerning the Committee‚Äôs judgment on the amount of progress made to that point.‚Äù The next day, in a 2/15 speech, FRB Cleveland President Sandra Pianalto listed four risks to the Fed‚Äôs current course and then more or less agreed with Bullard: ‚Äú[W]e could aim for a smaller sized balance sheet than would otherwise occur if we were to maintain the current pace of asset purchases through the end of this year, as some financial market participants are expecting. This course of action would be all the more attractive if the economic outlook continues to improve, as I expect it will.‚Äù Both these speeches followed a 2/11 speech by Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen, in which she said that ultra-easy monetary policy might remain in place even if the Fed‚Äôs unemployment ‚Äúthreshold‚Äù of 6.5% is achieved as long as inflation remains around 2%. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Innovation &amp; Its Malcontent. (1) Professor Gordon and Reverend Malthus. (2) The worst forecast on record. (3) No more productivity-enhancing innovations? (4) Dismal scientists vs. street-smart contrarians. (5) Does the Energy Revolution matter? (6) US net petroleum imports cut in half since 1985! (7) Head in the Cloud. (8) The 10K-B.A. (9) Holding pattern: Stocks set to land or refueling for another climb? (10) Fiscal speed bumps. (11) M&amp;A is in fashion. (12) Talking Fed heads. (More for subscribers.)
White HousePresident Barack Obama pressured Congressional Republicans to take action to avert the spending cuts scheduled to take effect next week as a result of the sequester this morning, telling the nation in a press conference that the cuts are "not an abstraction." "People will lose their jobs. The unemployment rate might tick up again," Obama said, appearing in front of a slew of emergency responders.† He used the presence of the first responders ó whose jobs he said were on the line as a result of the cuts ó to issue a direct challenge to Republicans. "Are you willing to see a bunch of emergency responders lose their jobs because you want to protect some special interest tax loophole?" Obama said. Obama said that the sequester "won't help the economy, won't create jobs, and will mean hardship for a whole lot of people." "If Congress allows this meat-cleaver approach to take place," Obama said, it will affect military readiness and shrink crucial services. He warned that thousands of teachers and other educators will be laid off. It will affect the FBI and other emergency responders. He said the cuts will challenge the U.S.'s ability to challenge threats to different parts of the world. House Speaker John Boehner's responded to Obama's press conference by saying that the President hasn't offered a credible solution to avert the sequester. ìWashington Democratsí newfound concern about the presidentís sequester is appreciated, but words alone wonít avert it," Boehner said. Replacing the presidentís sequester will require a plan to cut spending that will put us on the path to a budget that is balanced in 10 years. To keep these first responders on the job, what other spending is the president willing to cut?î Obama chided Congress for having "some manufactured crisis" "every three months around here." "Weíve got a few days ó Congress can do the right thing," he said. Obama's statement comes upon his return from a weekend trip to Florida and while Congress is in recess until Feb. 25.† Obama and Republicans have been battling for the past few weeks about the sequester, though there appears to be growing resignation that the cuts are going to happen. Congressional Republicans have pushed back at Obama's criticism by saying they have twice passed legislation†to replace the cuts. Senate Democrats released their own sequester-aversion plan last week that replaces 10 months of sequester cuts through an even mix of spending cuts and revenue increases, but it has yet to gain any serious traction. † Just how much does the sequester cost?
APLast week, President Obama mentioned signing a free trade agreement with the European Union in his state of the union address. As with anything, the benefits of such an agreement comes with its costs. Morgan Stanley commodities analyst Adam Longson believes that the this is the path to higher natural gas prices. Longson writes in a note today that opening up a new market would be a boon for natgas producers as prices rise with the new demand. This means higher costs for consumers who rely on natgas (currently at $3.25/mmBtu) for things like heating and cooking. It would also change the trajectory of some pipeline projects: At todayís†European prices, US natural gas could rise as high as†$5.70/mmBtu before closing the trans-Atlantic LNG†export arb (i.e. the exchange rate setttlement ó ed). We believe a new FTA has the potential to†alter the timeline and destination for some LNG exports†projects. We view East Coast projects, like Dominionís†Cove Point, as the greatest beneficiaries. Longson says there's also the potential for expanded oil exports.† However, the impact on U.S. light sweet crude would not be as dramatic.
Paul Krugman echoes the point that a big majority of the population supports a minimum wage increase, including a majority of Republicans Yet the Republican leadership remains trapped because it opposes this increase as well as any alternative policy that might make the poor better off, such as increasing the Earned Income Tax Credit or endorsing a Guaranteed Minimum Income (points Matthew Yglesias makes in the link above). As further evidence, the minimum wage increase Proposition B in Missouri in 2006 passed 76-24, probably helping Senator Claire McCaskill to her first Senate victory with under 50% of the vote.Moreover, much recent research (via Think Progress) shows no "job killing" effects from raising the minimum wage. As originally shown by David Card and Alan Krueger, there was strong evidence of "publication bias" in the studies underlying the former economists' consensus that the minimum wage reduced jobs. That is, economics journals tended to prefer to publish studies with statistically significant results and not publish those showing no effect from the minimum wage. Researchers thus adjusted their statistical specifications until they achieved statistical significance, thereby generating a mass of studies that all barely reached statistical significance despite larger volumes of data which should have produced stronger results. As the Schmitt paper emphasizes, more recent studies of studies ("meta-analysis") continues to support the conclusion that the purported job killing effect was a mirage. As I have pointed out before, cross-national comparisons of the minimum wage and unemployment rates also do not support the view that the minimum wage is the job killer Republicans claim it is. Indeed, as in my September 2011 post, nine OECD countries have higher minimum wages rates than the U.S. does on a purchasing power parity basis that adjusts for the cost of living, yet only two have higher unemployment rates (France and Ireland), while the U.K.'s unemployment rate is the same. The table below illustrates this and underscores the point that the minimum wage is a winner for the middle class. Read more posts on Middle Class Political Economist ª
By EconMattersYou have come a long way babyThe lumber market has really come off the 2009 bottom of $140 per mbf and closed Friday at $399.80 per mbf on the back of good news out of the housing sector of the economy. The housing sector of the economy led the way in 2012 with record low interest rates, and investors and banks working through the foreclosed inventory, leading to a trending and steady rise in both average home prices and new constructions. Everything related to the housing sector performed well in 2012 from materials to the home improvement and remodeling big box retailers in Home Depot and Lowe`s Companies Incorporated. Econmatters Lumber prices getting slightly ahead of themselves?But if we examine the history of lumber prices relative to the strength of the housing sector, lumber prices may be getting slightly ahead of themselves from a valuation standpoint.¬†Lumber prices will probably break through the $400 level on trading momentum alone, but if we look at the charts most of the time lumber prices are south of the $400 level. The all-time high for lumber prices established in 1993 was just shy of $500 on a spike, with additional spikes of $440 in 1997, and $420 in 2005. So we are now basically sitting at $400 and in spike territory based upon the charts. Econmatters I will be watching lumber for some additional upside momentum, and looking for a good entry on a longer term reversion to the mean short in the commodity as I think the risk and reward dynamics are setting up nicely in lumber for an eventual short once the momentum is exhausted. Cheap capital chasing returns fueling the upside momentumThe US economy is looking for all the good news it can get, and housing has definitely improved but lumber prices are pricing towards the best ever levels in the housing market from a comparison standpoint. I know that a lot of investment capital has moved into anything housing related seeking a return with a bunch of easy access to cheap capital. As a result prices can move well beyond historical valuation models, and I think they will definitely test the $420 and $440 levels as a direct result of liquidity flows. But from a historical valuation standpoint prices just do not stay for long at these elevated levels, and once the housing euphoria trade loses momentum, prices should fall more in line with historical norms around the $320 per mbf level. Therefore, the higher prices get pushed up on the crowded investment spike this year, the better risk reward trading setup for shorting the lumber market in the future looking for a high probability reversion to the mean trade.¬†¬© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle     Read more posts on EconMatters ¬ª
Flickr / rcboddenWe've been following the explosive study first reported by the New York Times linking China's army to hacking activities in the U.S. The Times did some additional reporting, and alleges the People's Liberation Army targeted at least one company that oversees 60 percent of North America's energy infrastructure: ...the most troubling attack to date, security experts say, was a successful invasion of the Canadian arm of Telvent. The company, now owned by Schneider Electric, designs software that gives oil and gas pipeline companies and power grid operators remote access to valves, switches and security systems. ... ...ìThis is terrifying because ó forget about the country ó if someone hired me and told me they wanted to have the offensive capability to take out as many critical systems as possible, I would be going after the vendors and do things like what happened to Telvent,ì Mr. Peterson of Digital Bond said. ìItís the holy grail.î The Times says the National Electrical Manufacturers Association, a lobbying group that represents companies that make components for power grids, has confirmed it's been attacked but that the hackers did not gain access to their network. Read the full report at NYTimes.com &gt;
Google FinanceStocks are off to a strong start early in the U.S. trading session. Markets hit their high, but trimmed some of their gains* after the NAHB homebuilder sentiment report, which missed expectations and unexpectedly fell. Last week as he wrote about his expectation for a sell-off, JP Morgan's Tom Lee suggested that resilience in the face of bad news could be a sign of changing market mentality. "We see the biggest challenge to our view as the possibility that equity markets are not negatively affected by bad news and continue to strengthen through 1H," he wrote¬† "And this could be a result of a change in the market‚Äôs character. If investor confidence strengthens, there may be less volatility." *Earlier, we noted that stocks jumped after the NAHB report, when they actually hit their highs of the day as the report came out.
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesThe NAHB housing market index for February fell to 46 in February, from 47 the previous month.  After rising for eight straight months, the index held steady in January but declined for the month. But the index continues to stay near its highest level since May 2006. Builders are adjusting their expectations to reflect the pace of new home sales, according to chief NAHB economist David Crowe. Sentiment has flatlined because of concerns over access to credit and uncertainties about job growth: "Following solid gains over the past year, builder confidence has essentially leveled out and held in the same three-point range over the last four months," noted NAHB Chairman Rick Judson, a home builder from Charlotte, N.C. "This is partly due to ongoing uncertainties about job growth and consumer access to mortgage credit, but it‚Äôs also a reflection of the fact that builders are now confronting rising costs for building materials and, in some markets, limited availability of labor and lots as demand for new homes strengthens." Investors are watching this number, because one of the big concerns about the housing market is that new home supply is adding to inventory, even as new home sales have been disappointing. Bank of America's Michelle Meyer has however said that concerns of overbuilding are overblown. The National Association of Home Builders' housing market index is a sentiment index in which respondents rate not just the housing market but also the economy in general. The index draws on builder perceptions of current single-family home sales and sales expectations for the next six months. It also includes builders' expectations of traffic of prospective buyers. A reading of 50 shows that an equal number of builders view the market as good or bad. 
World Economic Forum via flickr Daniel Vasella is one of the most important people in the history of Swiss drug giant Novartis. He led the merger between†that created the company in 1996, was CEO until 2010, and has been chairman since 1999. He has an incredible amount of information about the company's inner workings and research. The price tag to keep him from joining another company and revealing those secrets? On Friday, the company announced a "golden handcuff" or non-compete agreement worth an incredible $72 million Swiss Francs, which is about $78 million dollars.† There was a massive uproar from shareholders, lawmakers, and media due both to the incredible size of the payment, and the fact that the company waited so long to tell investors about it.†The company canceled the agreement this morning after just a few days of intense pressure.† The timing of the announcement was particularly awkward. The topic of excessive executive pay was already in the forefront of people's minds because of a March 3rd referendum in Switzerland on a law that would give shareholders more power to restrict pay.†Vasella was already involved in that discussion because he was being paid†$13.4 million a year.† It was something of a perfect PR storm for the company. Already under fire for executive pay practices, the announcement came out of nowhere, and the package's size instantly made it a news item. They picked the exact time when supporters of the Swiss referendum would have the most incentive to turn this into an issue.† Non-compete agreements aren't uncommon, especially in industries with sensitive intellectual property, but this goes to show how important timing and public perception can be.† That's why many companies use accounting tricks†or lucrative consulting contracts to reduce that giant headline number and avoid this kind of massive PR headache.†
Even if a business produces a resource that is in very high demand, such as oil, it still needs wage-earning customers either to buy the resource directly (for example, as gasoline), or to buy the resource indirectly (for example, as food which uses oil in production and transport). It is not just any wages that are important. It is the wages paid by private companies (rather than governments) that are important, as the backbone to the economy. Governments tend to get their revenues from private citizens and from businesses, both of which are dependent on wages of private citizens. There are a few pieces outside of this loop, such as taxes on imports from foreign countries. With the advent of free international trade, this source is disappearing. Another piece outside the US wage-loop is taxes on resource extraction, if these resources are exported. Instead of using the analogy of a backbone, perhaps I should say that wages are the base that ultimately determines the quantity of goods and services an economy can afford. Gail Tverberg Figure 1. Author‚Äôs view of structure of the economy. Non-governmental wages form the base of the entire economy. Obviously there are other kinds of income, such as ‚Äúrents,‚Äù but these, too, ultimately come from wage earners. Furthermore, businesses cannot earn money to pay dividends unless some consumer, somewhere, can afford to buy the goods and services their business is selling. I have written recently about how the proportion of Americans with jobs rose to a peak, and since has been declining. Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 2. US Number Employed / Population, where US Number Employed is Total Non_Farm Workers from Current Employment Statistics of the Bureau of Labor Statistics and Population is US Resident Population from the US Census. 2012 is partial year estimate. I decided in this post to look at the dollars these workers are earning. In particular, I decided to look at wages, other than government wages, adjusted to today‚Äôs cost level using the ‚ÄúCPI- Urban,‚Äù cost index of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. ¬†I discovered that these wages are doing very poorly. I also discovered a disturbing connection between high oil prices and flattening or declining wages. Putting all of these pieces together suggests a connection to ‚ÄúLimits to Growth.‚Äù Per Capita Non-Government Wages If we take inflation-adjusted non-government wages, and divide by the total US population (not just employed workers), we get a measure of the extent to which wages have been growing or shrinking. Some of this growth will be from a second wage-earner in a family joining the workforce. Some of this growth will be from families in recent years having fewer children, so that adults make up a larger portion of the population. If some jobs move overseas and are not replaced, this will act to reduce wages. Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 3. US per capita non-governmental wages, in 2012 dollars. Non-governmental wages and population from Bureau of Economic Analysis; Adjusted to 2012 cost level using CPI-Urban from Bureau of Labor Statistics. Comparing Figure 2 and Figure 3, we can see that they follow generally the same shape. A major portion of the increase in wages in Figure 3 is thus driven by a higher proportion of the population having jobs, at least up until the year 2000. Figure 3 emphasizes how poorly wages have performed since the year 2000. Average wages on a Figure 3 basis hit a high point of $19,112 in 2000. They dropped back to $18,145 in 2003. In 2007, they briefly surpassed the year 2000 high point, hitting $19,573. More recently they dipped again and (with government deficit spending) have recovered a bit, rising to $18,053 in 2012. This is very low by historical standards; it is between the level they were in 1998 and 1999. Looking at Figure 3, the other time when wages were flat was the period between 1973 and 1983. The thing that is striking is that both the current period and the previous ‚Äúflat‚Äù period took place during periods of high oil prices (Figure 4, below). The vast majority of the rise in non-government per capita wages that has taken place has happened when the inflation-adjusted price of oil was less than $30 barrel. Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 4. Per capita non-government wages, as in Figure 3, together with historical oil prices in 2012$, based on BP 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy data, updated with 2012 IEA Brent oil price data. We have discussed previously why high oil prices can be expected to have an adverse impact on wages. There are multiple ways this can happen. For example, oil plays a very direct role in growing and transporting food and in making gasoline. Thus, the cost of food and of commuting increases. This causes people to cut back on discretionary expenditures, leading to layoffs in discretionary sectors. Lay-offs in discretionary sectors means fewer jobs. Another thing that happens is a change in the competitive situation that indirectly leads to layoffs. Oil is used in transporting many types of goods, and is used in producing a wide variety of products, such as asphalt shingles and synthetic cloth. Wages don‚Äôt rise at the same time as oil prices rise. The result is a mismatch between what citizens can afford, and the cost to manufacture and transport products. Some customers are ‚Äúpriced out‚Äù of the market. Businesses find that they must scale back the size of their operations to produce only the amount customers can afford.¬†For example, a delivery service will operate fewer vehicles, if demand is lower, laying off workers. Also playing a role in reduced employment is increased competition from China, India, and other low wage countries. These countries typically use a lot of coal in their energy mix, so are less affected by high oil prices. As a result, their prices become more competitive as oil prices rise. Changes in trade agreements can also be expected to play a role in the competitive situation. China started growing rapidly immediately after it joined the World Trade Organization in December, 2001. The big drop-off in US employment coincides very closely in time to the time China started growing quickly. Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 5. China‚Äôs energy consumption by source, based on BP‚Äôs Statistical Review of World Energy data. Another factor in reduced wages is increased automation, in an attempt to compete with low-wage countries. An employer may replace several workers with a single worker, using a new high-tech machine. The worker with the new machine may earn more, but the others are left to find jobs elsewhere. Going forward, increased retirement of ‚Äúbaby boomers‚Äù is likely to add further challenges. Retirees will need to be fed and cared for, mostly from taxes on current workers. In theory, the retirement of baby boomers should leave more jobs for unemployed young people, but this will depend on whether such jobs are really available. One important point is that the impact of high oil prices on wages doesn‚Äôt ‚Äúgo away‚Äù to any significant extent over time. This is clear from Figure 4, and is a point I have made previously. Increased fuel efficiency helps a bit, as do adaptations like finding a job closer to where a person lives. But high oil prices continue to make goods that are made using oil less competitive on a world market. High oil prices also continue to make increased automation attractive, and continue to keep the cost of transport of high. Individuals find they need to permanently cut back on discretionary spending to balance their budgets. Oil prices are likely to remain high, and in fact, rise in the future. When we started extracting oil, we began with the easy (and cheap) to extract oil first.¬†Now, the inexpensive to extract oil is mostly gone; what is left is¬†high-priced oil. ¬†Over time, the price becomes even higher, as diminishing returns set in. The recent publicity about the possibility of more tight oil in the United States doesn‚Äôt change this dynamic. What the press releases don‚Äôt say is that this oil will only be available if it is sufficiently high-priced. A recent survey by Barclays indicates that North American oil and gas companies are anticipating less than a one per cent increase in ‚Äúexploration and production‚Äù expenses in 2013; current North American oil and gas prices are not high enough to justify much increase in investment. Per Capita Real GDP In recent years, the economy as a whole has tended to fare better than wage earners. This happens partly because deficit spending is being used to provide income to the many unemployed people, and partly because businesses are able to ‚Äúbounce back‚Äù from an earnings point of view better than wage-earners, because they can cut back the size of their operations to keep profits high. Sometimes they can even substitute low overseas labor costs, or automation. If we compare per capita real (that is, inflation-adjusted) GDP with oil prices (both in 2012$), this is what we see: Gail Tverberg Figure 6. Per capita real GDP (based on US Bureau of Economic Analysis data) compared to oil prices in 2012$, based on BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy data. There is some stalling in the rise of real GDP per capita, with high oil prices, but it is not nearly as pronounced as the stalling of wage growth. Nevertheless, Economist James Hamilton found that 10 out of the last 11 US recessions were associated with oil price¬†spikes. On a per capita basis, real GDP per capita in 2012 is between the 2005 and the 2006 level. This is far better than the situation with non-government wages. In Figure 4, we saw that in 2012, non-government wages were only between the 1998 to 1999 level. Ouch! Hitting ‚ÄúLimits to Growth?‚Äù¬† I wonder if the situation we are reaching now isn‚Äôt ‚ÄúLimits to Growth,‚Äù as described by the book by that name by Meadows et al. written in 1972.¬†¬†The way we¬†seem to be reaching Limits to Growth is through¬†high oil prices, and the impacts these high oil prices have both on wages and on competitiveness with other countries. I explained some of these issues earlier in this post. There are also impacts on governments: Over the last several thousand years, many civilizations have grown up, reached limits of one sort or another, and eventually collapsed. Based on the work of Peter Turchin and Sergey Nefedov in the book¬†Secular Cycles, there were financial issues not too different from the ones we are seeing now involved in these collapses. I showed in my post¬†2013: Beginning of Long-Term¬†Recession?¬†that there seem to be significant parallels to our current situation. These collapses often took 20 years or more, but the situation is still concerning. While the situation we are looking at is unpleasant, if we understand the source of our problems, we can at least look at our situation a bit more rationally. We may not be able to find solutions, but we can at least eliminate some approaches as being unrealistic. We may be able to find partial solutions, such as making survival possible for a subset of humanity, if not everyone. If we don‚Äôt understand our predicament, there is no way we can rationally address it. Filed under: Financial Implications Tagged: employment, high oil prices, limits to growth, per capita wages, wages Read more posts on Our Finite World ¬ª
During a CNBC "Squawk Box" segment this morning on Phil LeBeau's Telsa's Model S test drive this morning, anchor Becky Quick gave the viewers a little bit too much information. "My parents used to make my brothers take empty bottles with them when we traveled because they refused to stop even for bathroom breaks."¬† It became even more awkward when no one on set responded to that comment. ¬† Check it out here (start at the 4:25 minute mark):¬†¬† (HT: @Wonderfunk99)
At 10:00 AM ET, we'll get the NAHB housing market index, a measure of homebuilder confidence. Economists are expecting the index to climb to 48 from 47 a month ago.† This would be the highest reading since 2006. This index has been an extremely reliable leading indicator of the housing market.† Housing economist Robert Shiller is a fan.† Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna writes about it in his latest note to clients: The homebuildersí sentiment index is generally not a market-moving release, but the series is a very useful proxy for underlying housing demand. As shown in the chart below, this index is an excellent leading indicator of housing starts, with the correlation between the former and the latter the highest using a six month lead. Based on what has already been reported, the surge in the buildersí index suggests that we could reach 1.6M on housing starts at some point this year. If sustained, this level would imply a near 250 bps additional contribution to real GDP growth, essentially a doubling of the current residential share of real GDP. Deutsche Bank The only concern lately, however, is that completions, and new home sales have been lagging this index. The hope is that these other indicators will catch up to this homebuilder optimism.† If not, the index's signal may be a false positive.
The KremlinShinzo AbeThe Japanese yen is strengthening today after Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said that the Bank of Japan would not be buying foreign bonds (one of its options for weakening the yen further). Aso's comments follow a statement put out by G7 finance ministers last week that included the line (emphasis added), "We reaffirm that our fiscal and monetary policies have been and will remain oriented towards meeting our respective domestic objectives using domestic instruments, and that we will not target exchange rates." However, Citi analyst Michael Plavnik was on CNBC this morning with Kelly Evans, and he said that regardless of posturing, he thinks Japan will do whatever it takes to weaken the yen 40-50 percent, foreign bond purchases included. Plavnik told CNBC: I think [Japanese government officials] have a goal to hit 2-percent inflation. They're not going to be able to hit 2-percent inflation without significant yen weakness. The pass-through [from yen devaluation to inflation] is about 15-20 percent, so they need the yen to weaken about 40-50 percent in order to get 4-percent inflation over a 2-year period. So, if you reverse engineer from there, you say, "Well, what do you need to do to get the yen weakness?" And, quite frankly, I think they are willing to do anything it takes. So, how does Japan get around the no-foreign-bond-purchases rule? Plavnik says the Japanese government may set up a sovereign wealth fund: I think what the bond market is saying ‚Äì what the yields are saying ‚Äì is [the Japanese government is] willing to do whatever it takes. So, if today they take foreign bond purchases off the table, then they are going to have to do it through quantitative easing, which means significant bond purchases. Furthermore, personally I think foreign bond purchases are not out of the question. Coming out after the weekend of G7 and G20, it's pretty difficult for them to come out and say, "Yes, we are going to do this significantly." I don't think they are going to have the BoJ do it. The more crafty way to do it ‚Äì Abe is extremely strong on international [policy]; he's made the yen an international policy. I think the way they do it is they will start a sovereign wealth fund.¬†They will buy Treasuries, and they will buy European bonds ‚Äì they already buy U.S. Treasuries and EFSF bonds. So, if they set up a sovereign wealth fund and say, "This is what we're going to do ‚Äì we're going to buy foreign bonds," it's pretty difficult for the international community to come back and say, "Please don't do this," because there are already other countries that do this. A sovereign wealth fund could be a game-changer for the Japanese government, which seems to be increasingly hamstrung by the international community in its quest to achieve inflation. However, such a plan could eventually spark the same sort of blowback Japan faces now.
Wikimedia CommonsWe're just a few days away from the dreaded "sequester", a series of automatic spending cuts that will result in $85 billion in spending cuts across every part of the US government, with defense getting particularly hard hit. The conventional wisdom is that it's probably going to happen, and so now both sides are just jockeying to blame the other side. Republicans say that the sequester was Obama's idea. Obama is saying that the Republicans won't agree to a compromise to avert it. But while everyone is talking about how horrible it will be, let's remember that the sequester was a great idea. Remember, the sequester was agreed to as part of the 2011 debt ceiling negotiations. The GOP was threatening to cause a disastrous debt ceiling breach, and the only way to get enough votes in The House to raise the debt ceiling was to promise future cuts that were equal in dollar value to the amount that the debt ceiling was being raised. But the economy was much weaker in 2011, and instant cuts would very likely have put the US right back into a UK-style, austerity-induced recession. It's this forced recession that the sequester averted. The sequester already did its job. We didn't get a debt ceiling crisis or a recession in 2011, thanks to the future promise of spending cuts starting in 2013. Now of course, there's another choice. Do we do the sequester, or do we cancel it, and let current discretionary spending trajectories continue. Most economists (and the military) agree that the sequester is a bad piece of legislation. Even those in favor of cuts don't like the across-the-board way that spending is cut this way. The bottom line is this: Compared to a debt ceiling crisis or an austerity-induced recession in 2011, the sequester was and still is a brilliant play. But compared to current options, keeping it as is is not the best move. Here's how much the sequester cuts would actually cost...†
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderATHENS (Reuters) - Greece's current account deficit narrowed last year to its lowest level since the country joined the euro, adding to evidence that the economy is slowly responding to harsh austerity measures. The gap narrowed by 73 percent in 2012 to 5.58 billion euros ($7.45 billion), helped by falling imports and lower interest payments after a sovereign debt cut, the country's central bank said on Tuesday. The bank gave no breakdown on the extent to which import cuts reflected less purchases of machinery by Greek firms, a bad sign for crumbling investment levels and chances of a much needed revival in exports such machines could produce. However, one telltale statistic showed how showy lifestyles are out of fashion in bailed-out Greece. Only one new Ferrari sports car was registered nationally in the whole of 2012. That, plus one used Ferrari sold, contrasted with 21 new and 37 used ones in 2007, the last year before Greece's recession started. The current account deficit shrank to 2.9 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2012 from 9.9 percent the previous year - its lowest level since at least 1999, according to available data. "The pace of the adjustment was impressive last year," said Nikos Magginas, an economist at the country's biggest lender National Bank. The current account balance is a key measure of how competitive a nation's economy is and of whether it is living within its means. The reading had deteriorated during a debt-fuelled economic boom to a record deficit of 14.7 percent of GDP in 2008. But a severe economic contraction, partly due to austerity measures as part of the country's international bailout, has narrowed the gap and may eliminate it in 2014, according to government estimates. In a further sign of economic adjustment announced last week, consumer prices stopped rising in January for the first time since at least 1996, reflecting a plunge of almost a third in households' real disposable income. Most of the improvement in the current account reflected falling imports, as austerity-hurt businesses and households cut down on purchases of foreign machinery and consumer goods that are not produced at home. Imports dropped by 12 percent to 41.6 billion euros, according to central bank figures. Interest payments on Greece's sovereign debt dropped sharply after a 75 percent writedown Athens imposed on private sector bondholders back in March. The income account balance, which reflects such payments, narrowed by 75 percent to 2.16 billion euros. Tourism, Greece's chief money spinner, was not much help, falling by 4.6 percent to generate revenues of 10.02 billion euros on shrinking arrivals from Germany, the country's biggest tourism market. Exports rose by a mere 3.8 percent and the country needed to do better than that to keep its payments balance broadly balanced when the economy recovers, economists warned. "We need more exports of goods for the correction in the current account deficit to become permanent," Magginas said. Several in-built characteristics of the Greek economy tend to tilt it towards current account deficits, such as high dependence on foreign energy sources and imported products which cannot be easily replaced with domestic ones. The share of exports as part of the country's GDP stands at about 25 percent of GDP, the lowest level among the 17 countries sharing the euro. Greece's foreign exchange reserves stood at 5.5 billion euros at the end of December, the Bank of Greece added. ($1 = 0.7490 euros) (Editing by Stephen Nisbet) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions
The hedge fund war over Herbalife keeps heating up. Right now, shares of Herbalife are trading back below the pre-Bill Ackman short levels. Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, believes the multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products is a "pyramid scheme" and he's shorting more than 20 million shares with a price target of $0. Last Thursday evening, legendary billionaire investor/long time Ackman rival Carl Icahn disclosed a 12.98% stake†in Herbalife which includes†shares underlying call options. †That news caused the stock to spike more than 18% ñ way above the pre-Ackman short level.† The SEC filing also said he intends to have discussions with management "regarding the business and strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value, such as a recapitalization or a going-private transaction." The next day, Icahn appeared on CNBC in a live telephone interview†around 12:30 p.m. to talk about his stake. †He told CNBC that he thinks Herbalife is a "very undervalued situation" and that his stake is not a personal vendetta against Ackman, but rather it's about making money. During his appearance, the stock started to slip, but was still up on the day. The stock ended up closing up 0.47 cents, or 1.23%, at $38.74 per share on Friday. The stock is up slightly in the pre-market today. Meanwhile, some fund managers on the long side have been selling off their stakes. Activist investor Bob Chapman,†who runs Manhattan Beach,†Calif.-based†Chapman Capital, said he completely exited his long position in Herbalife†Friday morning†after Icahn disclosed his stake. Hedge fund hot-shot Daniel Loeb, who runs Third Point LLC, is also said to have been paring back part of his big long position over the last few weeks, CNBC's Scott Wapner reports citing a source.†He's still one of the biggest shareholders, the report said. Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short position, shares of Herbalife are off 8.85%.†However, since the beginning of 2013, the stock is up more than 20%.† Herbalife is also expected to report Q4 earnings today after the closing bell. Check out the chart from Friday:† Yahoo! Finance † 
AFP"Currency wars" are all the rage right now. In Japan, Switzerland, and the U.K., currencies are rapidly falling, and many are accusing these countries of purposely depressing their currencies in order to boost exports at the expense of other nations. One could argue that this is the case in Japan. However, reality may be decidedly less exciting. In a note to clients this morning, Goldman Sachs analyst†Kamakshya Trivedi says the evidence points to a much more basic phenomenon: these countries are simply trying to boost stagnant economies via monetary easing. The title of Trivedi's report is perfect: Currency Wars? No, Just Monetary Easing. It's true that a side-effect of these monetary actions actions is, of course, a weaker currency ñ but that's only a secondary phenomenon. The real story is the attempt by various countries (notably Japan) to lower real interest rates, writes Trivedi: ìExhibit Aî in this argument is the behaviour of real rates. It is not simply that currencies have moved ñ real interest rates have declined significantly in Japan and in the UK over this period as well. In Japan real rates ñ measured as the difference between nominal 10≠year yields and 10≠year inflation swaps ñ have fallen from about +0.46% at the start of October 2012 to ≠0.18% currently. This is part of what Dominic Wilson has described as the most serious repricing of Japanís future price level since the economy entered the 'liquidity trap' (see The market consequences of exiting Japanís liquidity trap, GEW 13/05, February 2013).  In the UK, while real rates were already negative, they have declined further since the start of October ñ falling from ≠1.1% to ≠1.4%. Real mortgage fixed rates have also been declining in the UK over this period as the ëFunding for Lendingí policy appears to have gained traction, at least in the residential secured lending market. The absence of a liquid inflation market in Switzerland makes it harder to gain a sense of shifts in real rates directly, but here too there has been a modest steepening in nominal curves, consistent with a bout of monetary easing. Furthermore, when one drills down to the sector level of these countries' stock markets, it becomes evident that competitive devaluation isn't the only story (emphasis added): ìExhibit Bî is the behaviour of equity sectors underneath the headline stock market indices. If ìcurrency warsî were the only thing going on, then we would expect to see the stock market indices in places such as Japan, the UK and Switzerland being boosted by the export≠facing sectors. However, while typically export≠-oriented parts of the market (such as Industrials, Tech or Materials) have done well, they have generally been bested by the more domestic cyclical parts of the market (such as Consumer Discretionaries and Financials). In Japan, for example, an equally weighted combination of industrials and tech companies has increased +28% since October, whereas an equally weighted combination of consumer discretionary and financial companies has increased by a much greater extent (+44%). Similarly, in Switzerland, an equally weighted combination of consumer discretionaries and financials (+27%) has outperformed a combination of industrials and materials (+15%) over this period. And in the UK, a combination of consumer discretionary and financials (+19%) has outperformed industrials and materials (+10%) since October. In a testimony before the European Parliament yesterday, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi basically said the same thing: "Most of the exchange rate movements that we have seen were not explicitly targeted, they were the result of domestic macro economic policies meant to boost the economy...In this sense, I find really excessive any language referring to currency wars." It's true that monetary easing in developed economies is causing currency depreciation. However, to characterize global policymakers as engulfed in a "currency war" is missing the point about what these countries are trying to do.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Office Depot Inc, the No.2 U.S. office supply retailer, is in advanced talks to merge with smaller rival OfficeMax Incand a deal could come as early as this week, a person familiar with the matter said on Monday. Both companies, which trail industry leader Staples Inc, are under much pressure from investors to boost profitability as well as shareholder value, and a merger would help them to cut costs, close stores and boost their clout with suppliers. The deal is expected to be structured as a stock-for-stock transaction, the person said, but the source also warned that the talks could still fall apart. Office Depot has a market capitalization of $1.1 billion while OfficeMax has a market value of $932 million. Analysts have long called for consolidation in what they see as a cluttered sector, in which sales crumbled during the global financial crisis. Office supply stores are also fighting a battle for relevance, with shoppers increasingly buying their paper, toner and technology online or at mass merchants. Office Depot declined to comment on the news of a potential deal. Representatives for OfficeMax were not immediately available for comment. The news was first reported by the Wall Street Journal. Neuberger Berman LLC, one of OfficeMax's top investors and which has pressured the company to do more for shareholders, said it would support a merger with Office Depot Incdepending on deal terms. Benjamin Nahum, a portfolio manager at the investment firm, told Reuters in an interview on Monday that his preference would be for OfficeMax to declare a special dividend before merging with Office Depot. "In our view this would facilitate a fair deal," Nahum said, adding that OfficeMax shareholders should be compensated for "the balance-sheet strength that we bring to this combined entity". Neuberger Berman had called on the company last June to return money to shareholders in the form of a dividend or share repurchases and raised the specter of a proxy fight. According to Thomson Reuters data, Neuberger Berman owns 4.76 percent of OfficeMax, making it the third-largest shareholder of the Naperville, Illinois company. Office Depot has also come under pressure, with activist hedge fund Starboard Value LP urging it last September to make some drastic cost cuts and take other steps to improve performance. In 2011, Office Depot CEO Neil Austrian told Reuters that while the office supply retail sector was ripe for consolidation, antitrust regulators were sticking to an antiquated view of the sector and not letting key players merge. The Federal Trade Commission rejected a $4 billion merger of Office Depot and Staples in 1997, saying it would lead to less competition and higher prices for customers. Analysts now play down those concerns as mass merchants such as Target Corpand online chain Amazon.combecome bigger players in the sector. On Friday, shares of OfficeMax closed down 1.29 percent to $10.75 while Office Depot was up 2 percent to $4.59. U.S. financial markets were closed on Monday for a national holiday. (Editing by Bernard Orr, Dale Hudson and Edwina Gibbs) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
According to Bloomberg, famous stock market pundit Martin Zweig has passed away. Zweig (who was either 70 or 71) was a technical analyst, newsletter writer, and money manager, who famously called the crash of 1987 3 days before it happened. In an interview on Louis Rukeyser's Wall Street Week on October 16, 1987, Zweig predicted a short violent drop in the market that would be reminiscent of 1929. Here's the video. The whole thing is worth watching, but Zweig starts his call at the 6:44 mark. 
ShutterstockGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
It's still a quiet day, but the market is picking up a touch of steam. European stocks are near their highs of the day. Here's Italy, which is up 0.78%. FTSE MIB
You probably know that stocks are on a major tear. But if you're just watching the S&amp;P 500, you're missing the real party. BTIG's Dan Greenhaus -- in last night's Bedtime With BTIG note -- puts the market gains into some nice perspective. Note the comment in bold. ¬†Seven weeks in a row the S&amp;P 500 traded higher although with no single day closing up or down more than 2.5 points, it certainly wasn‚Äôt a rousing move to the upside. More impressive though are small caps; the Russell 2000 isn‚Äôt just up all seven weeks this year, its higher in twelve of the last thirteen weeks. For the large caps, the past two weeks has certainly seen a slowing of gains; the index is up less than 0.5% over that period. For every GE (NBC universal deal and buyback), GOOG (core business doing fine) and CMCSA (up 6.5% this week after reporting), there‚Äôs a CTL (cut dividend, weighing on whole telecom space), MHP (credit rating cut) and MRK (Venezuela, Vytorin). The result is the lack of movement and complete reversal of the VIX spike from Monday the 4th. Here's a chart since november comparing the S&amp;P 500 (red line) vs. the Wilshire Small Cap Index (blue line), which is a close approximation of the Russell 2000. Both are doing well, but as you can see, small caps are just killing it. FRED
SUFW, Flickr It almost looked like the deficit wars were over. The hawks who insisted that we must make deficit reduction a major priority seemingly retreated, as the growing economy took the wind out of their sails. But it looks like they're gathering for one more go at a grand bargain. NYT's Thomas Friedman has a column urging Obama to give one more shot at a "grand bargain" that would involve lower future spending and higher taxes. Friedman believes that this will unlock corporate confidence and spending. MSNBC's Joe Scarborough continues his crusade for deficit reduction, calling Krugman a debt denialist. And WSJ reports that today, Simpson and Bowles, the two faces of deficit hawkism, will unveil a new plan (their 4th) providing specifics on how money can be saved on closing loopholes and reducing healthcare expenses. So the deficit wars aren't over yet. Despite a virtually nil possibility that DC is going to do anything substantial on the deficit, the hawks and the grand bargaineers are giving it one last go.
The highly watched ZEW index of economic sentiment came in strong in Germany. German ZEW German ESI up to 48.2 in February (Jan:31.5). Reuters consensus was for 35.0. This big jump is leading to spike in the euro. From FinViz: FinViz
flickr / Takato MaruiJapan's Nikkei has been on a surge in recent months, and there are even signs now that consumer confidence is starting to spike. This is all because the new administration has promised to get the Bank of Japan using aggressive monetary policy to stimulate the economy. So the crucial decision that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe must take is: Choosing the next leader of the Bank of Japan. And it turns out that Abe's party (LDP) is divided on the question of whom to select. Abe wants someone who favors radical, unconventional measures. Finance minister Taro Aso wants someone who is more conventional. And he recently stated this desire in a speech. From Jonathan Soble at FT: Mr Aso is believed to favour a career civil servant with management experience and political connections, while Mr Abe is open to academics with a willingness to experiment with unorthodox policies. A government official close to the process said there was ìno question that a tense discussion is occurringî between the prime minister and finance minister. Beyond their differences over foreign bond-buying, Mr Abe and Mr Aso have diverged over whether to revise the central bank law to weaken the BoJís independence ñ Mr Abe has kept the threat alive, while Mr Aso said on Tuesday the government has ìno plansî to do so. The Japan "story" is all about a Bank of Japan that will no longer fall into its old funk. But the idea of selecting someone who will basicaly be a repeat of the past has always been a risk, especially since Japan's current government is filled with past figures, including Abe himself, who had previously been PM.
Goldman SachsGoldman's top economist Jan Hatzius has a new note out, taking stock of where the US economy is right now. The basic idea is that things have slowed down a bit (due to the fiscal headwinds) but that mostly things are still holding on, and that downside tail risk has diminished. These two bullet points sum things up: † 1. Our baseline forecast remains unchangedóslow growth in most of 2013 as tax increases and government spending cuts offset the private sector improvement, followed by a substantial acceleration in 2014 as fiscal policy turns more neutral. The economic news remains consistent with this view. Although some of the recent numbersójobless claims, retail/auto sales, and the latest manufacturing surveysómight suggest an earlier acceleration, our broader current activity indicator (CAI) does show a slowdown to 1.0% in January from around 2% in Q4 and our MAP surprise index has fallen to neutral levels after a few months in positive territory. In addition, we are not sure what to make of the strong consumer data for January. Most consumers probably werenít aware of the hit to their disposable income until they received their mid-January paycheck, and the anecdotal informationóincluding the Bloomberg story on Friday citing internal Wal-Mart emails about substantial weakness in early Februaryódoes suggest that spending has slowed recently.† 2. All that said, the downside risks to our forecast have diminished. This is partly because the dataówhile hardly stellaródo not show the economy buckling under the $200bn tax increase. But the more important reason is that Republicans in Congress seem to have given up on the idea of using the debt ceiling to force additional spending cuts. So the tail risk that the overall fiscal drag will be much larger than the 1Ω-2 percentage points we assume for 2013, and that this will push the economy below ìstall speedî and into a renewed recession, looks much lower now.
I‚Äôve seen a common theme in the comments section from the ‚ÄúAmerica is falling into an abyss‚Äù crowd ‚Äì the recent rise in food stamp usage. ¬†Without getting political, I figured I‚Äôd take a look at the raw data and see what we could conclude. ¬†Here goes nothing. First of all, food stamp usage ALWAYS rises in a recession so the recent surge is not remotely surprising. ¬†As you can see in Figure 1 below, every recession since the 1970‚Ä≤s (when this data is first available) has seen a sharp increase in food stamp usage. ¬†I used a year over year rate of change in order to compare the current environment on an apples to apples basis with past events. ¬†It‚Äôs too easy to look at the ‚Äúrecord high‚Äù or the headline figure in food stamps and simply conclude that things are worse than they‚Äôve ever been. ¬†The reality is that food stamps rose at about a 20% year over year rate at the worst point in the current recession and has since declined to a 4.25% year over year pace. ¬† So, the rate of change is still positive, but it‚Äôs come way down from its worst levels. I‚Äôve also provided the per capita food stamp usage in figure 2. ¬†Obviously, the picture looks far more bleak than the figure 1 image. ¬†Per capita food stamp usage is at its all-time high. ¬†But the rate of change is clearly slowing so it does help to keep things in perspective there. It‚Äôs interesting to note a few things from this data and the program itself: Overall, I think this data is not as alarming as some might have us believe.¬† But it also shows the depth of the recession that we‚Äôve just been through.¬† Clearly, the average and lower class American isn‚Äôt feeling like this is a recovery.¬†¬† The lasting impact of the balance sheet recession is a recovery that still feels very much like a recession to a huge portion of the US population. PragCap PragCap
As gasoline prices rise above $5/gallon in LA (see video), analysts are puzzled. Gasoline prices have been on the rise for the past 31 days, which is highly unusual for this time of the year. Typically prices begin rising in March or April as the driving season kicks off. The price increases are particularly puzzling, given the fact that US gasoline markets have been well supplied relative to historical levels. EIA Certainly the recent increases in crude oil prices have been a large part of the explanation. Some have suggested that increased demand due to stronger global economic activity is to blame. Other reasons have been proposed as well. CNN: - What's behind the higher prices at the pump? It's a confluence of factors, from rising crude oil prices, to production cuts and refinery closings. "Right now, things are tight worldwide," said Ray Carbone, president of New York commodities trading firm Paramount Options. "Refineries going down, unanticipated maintenance, and higher demand ... going into driving season. Gasoline futures trading on NYMEX (CME) have been rising almost daily, pointing to even higher prices at the pump in the spring. CME This is clearly going to create headwinds for consumer sentiment and ultimately spending patterns, particularly when combined with other issues consumers are facing this year. CNN: - It's hitting wallets right in the middle of winter, when people are already looking at large home heating bills. And it comes just after many Americans have been hit with smaller paychecks, and are worried about looming budget cuts¬†that could deliver an even deeper blow.
PARIS, Feb 19 (Reuters) - Ford, PSA Peugeot Citroen and Toyota led European car sales to a new low in January, kicking off 2013 with an 8.5 percent decline, the Association of European carmakers said on Tuesday. Registrations fell to 918,280 new cars, the Brussels-based industry body said in a statement, the slowest January since its records began in 1990. Ford, which is cutting back its European production capacity with three plant closures to stem regional losses, recorded a 26 percent sales plunge to 61,544 cars. Peugeot and Toyota posted the next biggest declines among major automakers, dropping 16 percent each. After falling to a 17-year low in 2012, European car demand is expected to contract further this year, squeezing mass-market brands still harder between excess capacity and cutthroat pricing. Most carmakers see the regional market shrinking between 3 and 5 percent in 2013. Hopes for a broader euro zone economic upturn have yet to percolate to the car industry. Germany in particular is weighing on the outlook. After resisting much of last year's slump, Europe's biggest car market is in sharp decline, extended by an 8.6 percent drop in January. Despite weak demand at home, Volkswagen increased its share of European sales. Its registrations fell 5.5 percent in January, a more modest decline than the market's, as the premium Audi nameplate fell just 2.1 percent. Its two German luxury rivals proved even more resilient, with BMW brand sales rising 9.4 percent and Daimler's Mercedes-Benz gaining 4.7 percent. South Korea's Kia also fared well, with registrations surging 7.7 percent, while affiliate Hyundai's sales fell just 2.2 percent. Italy's Fiat posted a 12.4 percent sales decline, despite a more modest 4 percent drop for the Italian carmaker's namesake brand. The upscale Alfa Romeo marque, upon which Fiat CEO Sergio Marchionne is building his recovery strategy for the group, saw its European sales collapse 37 percent in January. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Jeff Cully/EEFASFinally, everyone is back from vacation. Yesterday the US was off, and the week before that China was off. Now the world is at full capacity again. Markets are heading a bit higher. Both Italy and Germany are up fractionally (and both well off early lows already). US futures are a touch higher. It could be a quiet day. The highlight will be homebuilder sentiment later in the day.
