Bloomberg TVThis is what happens when your media company has exploded from 1,500 to 2,050 employees in five years ó you hire some more people to manage them all. Matt Winkler, editor and chief, and founder of of Bloomberg News, is still at the helm, but 6 more editors will be helping out with Bloomberg News' operations. And no, no one is losing their jobs. In fact there will be some spots open for promotions. Now here's the dream team: Congrats to them. And now for the memo from Winkler: Good morning, afternoon and evening, As we enter the final quarter of 2013, please accept congratulations for your exceptional work this year. We made progress in every region, on every beat and on every platform. We responded immediately to the unprecedented criticism by adopting new client-data security rules, creating a process to deal with reader complaints and by appointing our first Standards Editor, Tim Quinson. Most important, we remained focused on producing dozens of stories that shaped the investment agenda and changed the behavior of people with the most at stake. And I can't thank you enough. Your Deals scoops moved billions of dollars in market value; your interviews with heads of state, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel, U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron and Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos, reflect the unprecedented access Bloomberg News had to the most powerful people in the world. We were consistently ahead on the biggest trends in bank regulation and central bank policy in Europe, Asia and the Americas. We were first to reveal the resurgence of the U.S. car industry and the decline of confidence in gold, and scooped our local and international competitors at every point chronicling the implosion of Eike Batista's business in Brazil. We also expanded our products. We created First Word for FX and successfully started the Korean language service. We enhanced the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, which now tracks the world's 200 wealthiest people, and turned Bloomberg Pursuits into a successful quarterly luxury magazine. Bloomberg Businessweek released its first movie. Bloomberg.com is now the biggest site for business video. More than 150 new employees joined the Bloomberg News family so far this year. All of this is only the beginning, and we have ambitious plans for the years ahead. Before elaborating, let me provide some context of Bloomberg News as it evolved from a handful of reporters and editors in 1990 to 2,059 of us today. We started with four bureaus in three time zones. Today, there are 153 spanning the globe and reporting on money in all its forms. When the bureaus struggled to keep up with our customersí insatiable appetite for news, we created a system of reporting teams worldwide in 1998 with two dozen of them. Today, there are 214 teams. At the same time, Bloomberg Markets Magazine became a showcase for enterprise and depth reporting, winning more journalism awards in the ensuing decade than its three main competitors combined. By 2002, we brought print and broadcast news together for the first time, leveraging our news judgment across all media platforms with a management structure that ensured alignment. And in 2008, having gained responsibility for Bloomberg.com three years earlier, we reorganized again with 14 executive editors who would become 15 with the acquisition of BusinessWeek a year later. As we enter our 25th year, we can attribute our success to a willingness to embrace changes that foster the best practices that make us increasingly most influential. Itís always been about us, not you, or me, him or her -- about what are WE going to do. You know itís no coincidence that the number of Bloomberg installations surged to 317,000 from 8,500 when Bloomberg News was conceived 24 years ago. With our growth also come new challenges. Too many of our best stories get lost on the terminal or aren't showcased to the fullest on the platforms beyond the terminal. Some may not be worth doing. Others may be worth even more of our attention. We want to bring more focus to our organization, and that's why weíve decided to adapt our management structure for the first time since 2008. We want to: Going forward, we will have six Senior Executive Editors in charge of specific reporting and specific products; three of them will be reporting to me, and three will be reporting to Reto Gregori, who becomes Deputy Editor-in-chief while continuing his chief of staff duties. Under this simplified structure, Executive Editors will continue to be responsible for their respective areas of coverage and their leadership of the news teams will be essential to our success. Our new approach will help us focus our resources on the most important stories and make it easier to plan coverage across beats and platforms, further increasing the influence of our reporting. Laurie Hays, who transformed company news during the past five years, becomes Senior Executive Editor for Beat Reporting, reporting to me. She is now responsible for Markets, Finance, Companies, Government and Economy, with the beat executive editors reporting to her. This means that all teams that cover the Five Easy Pieces will be united for the first time. Chris Collins, the executive editor for Asia, becomes Senior Executive Editor for Breaking News, reporting to me. The regional executive editors as well as the newly created Executive Editor for First Word will report to him. This new structure positions us for further growth of First Word and gives us a unified focus on breaking news in all our bureaus. Standards Editor Tim Quinson also will be a Senior Executive Editor and report to me. Josh Tyrangiel, the editor of Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Digital, becomes Senior Executive Editor for Consumer Products, which will include Bloomberg Businessweek, the Web sites, as well as Projects &amp; Investigations, overseen by Executive Editor Bob Blau, and Muse under Manuela Hoelterhoff. Josh will work with them to make our enterprise reporting as coordinated as possible and to give it the prominence it deserves across all platforms. Josh will report to Reto. Marty Schenker, the executive editor for TOP, becomes Senior Executive Editor for Terminal News Products and Strategy, also reporting to Reto. Marty's universe includes TOP, Bloomberg Markets magazine as well as Development, and he will lead our efforts to develop news products that our terminal customers need and read. David Shipley, the senior executive editor for Bloomberg View, will also report to Reto. As part of this realignment, I'm excited to announce that Ken Kohn, currently the executive editor for Markets, becomes the new executive editor for TOP, succeeding Marty in his current role. Ken will return to New York in 2014. Laura Zelenko, currently managing editor for emerging markets, succeeds Ken and will oversee all our markets reporting from New York. Otis Bilodeau, the managing editor for Finance, succeeds Dan Hertzberg as executive editor for the finance teams. Dan plans to retire in February and will be an editor-at-large until then, focusing on the biggest stories. Kevin Reynolds, the deputy executive editor for First Word and Speed, becomes the new Executive Editor for First Word globally. David Merritt, currently the managing editor for India, succeeds Chris Collins as executive editor for Asia and will relocate to Hong Kong from Mumbai. Marco Babic, currently the managing editor for economic data, becomes the executive editor for news data, reporting to Chris Collins. As already announced, Heather Harris is now the executive editor for Europe, succeeding Tim Quinson. And Koray Oncel is now our chief information officer, reporting directly to Marty. To ensure there's greater opportunity for career development, we will post many of the open managing editor and team leader roles on PATH &lt;GO&gt; and welcome applications in the weeks ahead. At this point, I'm thrilled to be able to already announce that Jackie Simmons, currently the team leader for Deals in Europe, is the new managing editor for company news in that region, succeeding Heather. Christine Harper, currently the team leader for finance, becomes the managing editor for finance globally, succeeding Otis. Katherine Cho, the deputy managing editor for Speed in Asia, becomes the Managing Editor for Speed in that region, while Victoria Richards will focus on First Word Asia. And Arijit Ghosh, currently the bureau chief in Mumbai, will succeed David Merritt as managing editor for South Asia. Please join me in congratulating everyone on their new roles, and rest assured, the best is yet to come.

Wikimedia Commons "...we believe the market knows these situations usually are not resolved until sudden death overtime." That's Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading, talking about the market's action these days. People are talking about the huge disconnect between how Washington feels (that this debt ceiling situation is a big crisis that won't easily be resolved) and how Wall Street feels (meh). Basically the sentence above is the answer. Everyone's just convinced it will all get solved at the last second, so why get worked up?
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The failure of the Federal Reserve to begin scaling back bond buying at its meeting last week surprised financial markets and could undermine the effectiveness of its policies in the future, a top U.S. central banker said on Thursday. Kansas City Federal Reserve†President†Esther George, an outspoken policy hawk who was the sole dissenter at the Fed's September 17-18 policy committee meeting, said that she had been disappointed by the majority's decision. "Delaying action not only allows potential costs to grow, it also has the potential to threaten the credibility and the predictability of future monetary policy actions," she told the†Colorado Economic Forum at a dinner in†Denver. "Policy moves that surprise the market often result in additional volatility." George has dissented at every meeting this year against the Fed's massive bond purchase program, which she warns could lead to asset bubbles and inflation in the future. Financial markets were stunned by the decision of the policy-setting committee last week to keep buying bonds at a monthly pace of $85 billion. That contradicted clear signals all summer from Fed officials that they were getting ready to begin scaling back the program, marking the beginning of the end to an unprecedented five years of ultra-easy monetary policy. George cautioned that this delay could lead financial markets to doubt the strength of the U.S. economy. "Markets might misconstrue the postponement of action as reflecting a Committee assessment that the broader economic outlook is substantially weaker, when that is not the case." On the contrary, she viewed the durability of U.S. growth and hiring in the face of Washington budget cuts as encouraging. "The labor market and the broader economy have continued to improve in the face of fiscal tightening. I interpret this resilience as a signal that the economy's underlying fundamentals have improved substantially," she said. Furthermore, by surprising investors, the Fed could sap confidence in its own forward guidance, that it will hold interest rates near zero until unemployment hits 6.5 percent, provided the outlook for inflation stays under 2.5 percent. "Failing to adjust purchases at the last meeting, however, could risk the credibility and strength of these thresholds," she said. The U.S. unemployment rate was 7.3 percent in August. (Reporting by Alister Bull; Editing by Paul Simao)
REUTERS/Carlos Barria  China is about to open up an area known as the Shanghai Free Trade Zone. As Mamta Badkar explained earlier in the month, the zone is a 29-square KM area that will allow for more liberalized financial transactions and easier foreign direct investment. In a note, SocGen's Wei Yao explains why this is a 'big deal'. Essentially you have to look at history. China experiments with test-case liberalizations before it undertakes much more radical liberalizations. In order to understand the significance of this upcoming FTZ project, one needs to look at the history of Chinaís reform and opening-up since 1978. Deng Xiaoping introduced market mechanisms into a highly closed, tightly controlled and near-dead economy via several flagship regional experiments. In particular, the establishment of the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in 1980 re-opened the door to foreign direct investment. This SEZ model was adopted by a number of coastal cities from the mid-1980s. However, reform momentum stalled due to the political struggles of the late 1980s. Aiming to rekindle investor confidence, Deng made his famous southern tour in 1992, reaffirming the Chinese governmentís commitment to reform. One of the grand gestures following the tour was to grant Shanghaiís Pudong area a big package of pro-business policy, opening up to overseas investment to a greater extent. The overarching theme of all the reform in the 1980s and 1990s was, simply put, liberalisation. Local experiments in strategically important cities not only served as policy signals of reform commitment but provided guidance as to the path of upcoming changes. Fast-forwarding to now, the new leadership is forcefully pushing for another big package of corporate sector reform in Shanghai at a time when the Chinese economy is clearly at a critical juncture. It is hard not to see the historical resemblance and infer the significance of this move.
REUTERS/China Daily Here's a new building in Guangzhou, China. Reuters describes it as such: According to local media, the 33-story building, which is 138-metre-high (453 feet), was recently named Guangzhou Yuan Building and is about to finish construction. The building is also widely known as the "Copper Coin Building" because of its shape and colour. Here's a video from a couple years ago on the architectural inspiration for the building. 
It's time to update one of our favorite charts in the world. It shows the S&amp;P 500 (blue line) against initial jobless claims (red line). The jobless claims line is flipped over, so that improvement results in the line moving higher. Today we got a fantastic jobless claims number, and the stock market remains close to its all-time high, although it did have a bit of a losing streak over the last week. FRED
Private Equity firm Apax Partners, which already owned 30% of rue21, had offered to buy the remaining shares for $1.1 billion, a 23% premium of where the shares traded before the announcement. It was in May, when the hot air had just started to hiss out of the junk bond bubble ‚Äì and more ominously, out of the greatest debt bubble in history ‚Äì after the Fed had begun to contemplate out loud the revolutionary concept that it might actually dare to taper what Wall Street had considered a taper-less ‚ÄúQE Infinity.‚Äù The 23% premium was a great deal for shareholders. They couldn‚Äôt believe their eyes, and 99.7% of them approved the deal last week. But since May, the world has changed. Retailers, particularly teen retailers, have run into trouble as the excitement of a hot back-to-school season turned into a dud. Same-store sales at rue21 dropped 5.9%, earnings dropped too, and the bane of all retailers, inventories piled up. Meanwhile, the company continued at breakneck pace to open new stores around the country, now numbering 971, as it is trying to get to the magic 1,000 by the end of the year. The Fed‚Äôs policies have accomplished a magnificent feat: turning conservative but desperate investors into ‚Äúhigh-yield‚Äù investors ‚Äì in quotes because the Fed at its peak performance managed to push yields on even risky junk bonds below 5%, a level that FDIC insured one-year CDs were paying during the halcyon days of the old normal, before QE, when ‚Äúhigh yield‚Äù meant something in the double digits. And these conservative but desperate investors, hunting down yield in reasonable places without finding any, closed their eyes and held their noses and picked up this stuff and gorged on it, and drove down yields even further. But since May, investors have begun to open their eyes just a teeny bit, and some let go of their noses, and yield on junk debt has been rising since. This rue21 debt was the first that actually turned investors off. Suddenly, they‚Äôd smelled junk. JPMorgan, BofA, and Goldman had tried to sell $530 million of that stuff last month but failed. So now they‚Äôre trying again, ‚Äúaccording to people familiar with that matter,‚Äù the Wall Street Journal reported. To rid their books of the $780 million in debt, the banks are offering it at a discount of $0.80 to $0.85 on the dollar ‚Äì and will have to eat the difference. If they dump it at the low end, they‚Äôd receive $624 million, for a loss of $156 million. That the banks are even contemplating such a loss, rather than keeping that crap hidden in their basements, while waiting for sunnier days, exposes their thinking: One, new banking regulations require that banks maintain higher capital reserves against risky paper of this type, raising the costs of holding it, and giving the banks an incentive to unload it. Two, the banks estimate that the value of the debt will continue to go south, as rue21, teetering under its load of debt, will run into rough waters, given the dreary retail environment in the US. And three, the banks are seeing that more hot air, despite the current reprieve, will hiss out of the junk debt market, and more generally out of the greatest debt bubble in history, and that dumping that debt now might produce a smaller loss for the banks¬† than dumping it at a later date. This vision would be another signal for investors around the world to buckle their seatbelts. The LBO and junk-debt craze was ignited by the nearly $3 trillion the Fed printed since the financial crisis. Recipients include JPMorgan, now negotiating to settle various mortgage scams for $11 billion; it made $53.2 billion in profits over the last three years. But American consumers weren‚Äôt so lucky. And Wal-Mart shoppers have been hit the hardest ‚Äì with more retail woes to come. Read.... Wal-Mart Shoppers Clobbered By Fed Policies, Warren Buffett And His Ilk Thank The¬†Fed
CNNWhite House senior adviser Dan Pfeiffer used three vivid analogies to attack¬†House Republicans' laundry list of demands for raising the debt ceiling, comparing Republicans to arsonists, hostage-takers and suicide bombers. "What we're not for is negotiating with people with a bomb strapped to their chest," Pfeiffer said in an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper Thursday afternoon. "We're not going to do that." Earlier on Thursday, House Republican leaders released a preliminary list of items they plan to attach to any bill that also raises the debt ceiling. Among other things, it includes a one-year delay of the Affordable Care Act, construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, and entitlement reforms.  But a report from The Hill later Thursday suggested that Republicans might not have the votes necessary to move that bill. The White House took pains Thursday to emphasize President Barack Obama's position of not negotiating over the debt ceiling. Pfeiffer did so in an especially colorful way. "Republicans are not asking for a negotiation," he told CNN's Tapper. "It's a negotiation if I'm trying to sell you my house, and we are debating the price of it. It's not a negotiation if I show up at your house and say, 'Give me everything inside or I'm going to burn it down.' "Republicans have provided a laundry list of essentially ransom demands of things that were essentially the Romney agenda that voters rejected." Here's video: 
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisors Need To Avoid The Temptation Of Short-Term Performance (The Wall Street Journal) Bringing prospective clients is always a difficult task. This is because they will focus on short-term results, while the advisory firm is focused on the long-term goals of its clients, writes Clark M Blackman II, of Texas-based Alpha Wealth Strategies. There is also the temptation to replace fund managers that have had a few bad quarters with new higher but this is a mistake he writes. "Research at institutional portfolios has suggested that 60% of the time the hired gun performs worse than the manager that was replaced," he writes. "Sometimes we have to convince our clients of this too: They need to stay the course. Sometimes we must convince them that the stock market is going to come back. This last time around is the best example of that. Fear is never a good reason for making an investment decision. "We shouldn't make financial decisions for marketing reasons or try to better our short-term performance numbers if it's not absolutely the best thing to do for our current clients. We must always do what's right for them, even if it's to the detriment of recruiting new clients." Retirement Planning Is A Core Part Of Business For 73% Of Advisors (Russell Investments) Retirement planning is now a "significant or core part of business" for 73% of financial advisors surveyed in the Q3 Financial Professional Outlook survey by Russell Investments. 81% said they relied on a total-return approach i.e. where the focus is "on the overall return of an investment portfolio ‚Äì including capital appreciation, dividends and interest ‚Äì to provide income." "We are encouraged to see that so many advisors say they view retirement income through a total-return lens. However, one of the most common questions we hear from advisors regarding retirement portfolios is about yield," said Rod Greenshields, consulting director for Russell‚Äôs U.S. advisor-sold business in a press release.¬† "Reaching for yield at the expense of sound fundamental analysis can often lead to portfolios with significant credit risk, as well as industry and style biases. To help investors sustain a retirement lifestyle, we believe that generating return through capital appreciation, dividends and income yield in a diversified, multi-asset portfolio is likely the most sensible approach." Broker Wins $4.2 Million Arbitration Award Against Former Firm (Investment News) Former Wedbush broker Michael Farrah wont a $4.2 million arbitration award against his old firm over collateralized mortgage obligations that dated back to 2005, reports Investment News. In his claim, Farah alleged that "Wedbush made misrepresentations and omitted material facts in connection with the collateralized-mortgage-obligation investments that he recommended to his clients, causing Farah to lose clients and annual income." The panel's decision to award Farah was awarded punitive damages as part of the arbitration award was considered "unusual" in Finra cases involving a former broker and a broker-dealer. Farah was with Wedbush Securities from 1995 to 2005. Investors Aren't Worried About The Debt Ceiling Debate At All (Goldman Sachs) Investors don't seem too antsy about the debt ceiling debate. "We estimate that little or no volatility premium for the debt ceiling debates is priced into the options markets on stocks most exposed to government spending cuts," said Goldman Sachs' Robert Boroujerdi in a new note to clients."Complacency is even more pronounced on stocks with high government exposure," he added. "Fear priced into options on these stocks dropped over the past few months to new lows vs. SPX options." Goldman Sachs Advisors That Want To Grow Their Business Need To Get Better At Time Management (FA Mag) Financial advisors need to be more cognizant of how they spend their time, time management consultant John Anderson told FA Mag. Anderson thinks advisors should push tasks that don't involve time with their clients to the end of the day, and he writes that other tasks should be delegated to others. "The more contact you have with clients, the better you are at solving their financial problems," he said. "If they think of you first when it comes to finances, they will refer you to others and your business will grow."
Zaraterez / InstagramCandy Crush Saga-themed leggings.King.com, the maker of mobile game Candy Crush Saga, has filed for a "secret" IPO in the U.S., according to The Telegraph. The public offering of stock promises to be the biggest casual game company deal since EA bought PopCap in 2011 for $1.3 billion. The Telegraph notes: Few financial details are available, but it was turning over around ¬£300m at the start of this year and has grown rapidly since then. Its games were played an average of 300m times a month in 2011 but that figure now tops 30bn, helped by the success of Candy Crush Saga, which is the most popular game played on Facebook. Turnover is the U.K. term for total topline revenues. Smaller companies with revenues of less than $1 billion annually are allowed to file S-1 papers confidentially with the SEC in the U.S. After a quiet period, the S-1 will eventually be unveiled for public scrutiny. Twitter recently did the same thing. The fact that King believes it can make a market for its equity among ordinary investors shows the addictive power of "match-three" games. The original match-three variant was PopCap's Bejeweled. Its format has been copied and, in King's case, arguably improved by Candy Crush, which features 300 or more increasingly bizarre levels in which players must match three identical fruits on a checkered board in order to make them disappear. In the U.S., game IPOs have had a rocky recent history. They cycle on fads and trends. Take Zynga, for instance. In Q1 2013, its revenue declined 17% to $264 million, as users got bored of Farmville and Zynga Poker. 520 workers lost their jobs.¬† Zynga acquired OMGPop for $180 million in 2012, to obtain its super hot Draw Something app brand. In 2013, it laid off the entire OMGPop staff. Few play Draw Something now. ZNGA once traded at more than $14 but now sits around $3.61. Zynga's Q2 2013 revenue fell to $231 million, down another 31% year-over-year.
flickr / Mike KalasnikJ.C. Penney has begun a public offering of 84 million shares, reports Bloomberg. Shares of the troubled department store chain are down by around 5% following the news. Investors punished the stock on Wednesday after a Goldman Sachs published an extremely bearish report on the company. "In our view, a combination of weak fundamentals, inventory rebuilding, and an underperforming home department will likely challenge J.C. Penney‚Äôs liquidity levels in 3Q," said Goldman Sachs credit analyst Kristen McDuffy. "In order to safeguard against a potentially poor 4Q holiday season, it is likely that management will look to build a bigger liquidity buffer, as has been suggested by recent press reports. Although we believe this would be a prudent measure for the company, given our expectation for new capital to come in the form of additional debt (rather than equity), we believe this will be a negative catalyst for creditors." McDuffy recommended buying credit default swaps (CDS) on the the company. Here's the after-hours action via MarketWatch.com. MarketWatch

Town Real EstateGeorge Soros' ex-wife, Susan, is selling her five bedroom apartment on New York's Upper West Side for $39 million, says the Wall Street Journal. In addition to 6,000-square-feet and a view of Central Park, the apartment comes with an 800-square-foot guest apartment three floors down (the 16th floor). Then there are the 9.5 foot high ceilings, the meditation room, the five bathrooms, the two terraces. You get the picture, this place is beyond nice. Patty LaRocco of Town Residential has the listing. 
Nike Nike shares are surging on stronger-than-expected third quarter earnings. The company reported Q3 earnings of $0.86 per share, above consensus estimates for EPS of $0.78. Revenues were also slightly better than expected in Q3 at $6.97 billion, versus the $6.97 billion consensus estimate. Global futures orders after currency adjustments were up 10% in Q3. Analysts were looking for a 7.7% increase. North American futures orders rose 12%, beating the consensus 10.4% estimate. Likewise, China futures orders ex-currency were up 2%, beating estimates for a 0.5% advance. Right now, shares are up around 6% in after-hours trading. Nike was added to the Dow Jones Industrial Average last Friday after the closing bell. Now, the company's earnings release has taken the banner of unofficial kick-off to earnings season from aluminum giant Alcoa. Below is the full text from the release. ------------------------------------------------ BEAVERTON, Ore.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- NIKE, Inc. (NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2014 first quarter ended August 31, 2013. Strong demand for NIKE, Inc. brands propelled revenue growth, and diluted earnings per share grew faster than revenue due to gross margin expansion, SG&amp;A leverage, a lower tax rate and a lower average share count. ‚ÄúWe had a great first quarter driven by our unrelenting commitment to delivering innovative products and services to athletes around the world,‚Äù said Mark Parker, President and CEO of NIKE, Inc. ‚ÄúOur powerful portfolio of businesses combined with unmatched leadership and resources allows us to capitalize on opportunities that drive long-term value for our shareholders. I am more excited than ever about our potential to continue to innovate with purpose, and fuel NIKE‚Äôs growth.‚Äù* First Quarter Continuing Operations Income Statement Review Starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, the Company changed the reporting structure for what was historically identified as Other Businesses. Hurley and NIKE Golf have been included in the overall financial results for the NIKE Brand and for individual geographies, reflecting the operational integration of these businesses into the NIKE Brand category offense. Converse will now be reported as a separate segment, reflecting the ongoing operation of this brand as a stand-alone business. August 31, 2013 Balance Sheet Review for Continuing Operations Share Repurchases During the first quarter, NIKE, Inc. repurchased a total of 8.4 million shares for approximately $526 million as part of the four-year, $8 billion program approved by the Board of Directors in September 2012. As of the end of the first quarter, a total of 23.7 million shares had been repurchased under this program at a cost of approximately $1.3 billion. Futures Orders As of the end of the quarter, worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel scheduled for delivery from September 2013 through January 2014 were 8 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Excluding currency changes, reported orders would have increased 10 percent.* Conference Call NIKE management will host a conference call beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. PT on September 26, 2013, to review first quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at¬†http://investors.nikeinc.com. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location through 9:00 p.m. PT, October 3, 2013. About NIKE, Inc. NIKE, Inc., based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world‚Äôs leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned NIKE, Inc. subsidiaries include Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories, and Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes surf and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories. For more information, NIKE‚Äôs earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at¬†http://investors.nikeinc.com¬†and individuals can follow @Nike. *¬†The marked paragraphs contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by Nike with the S.E.C., including Forms 8-K, 10-Q, and 10-K. Some forward-looking statements in this release concern changes in futures orders that are not necessarily indicative of changes in total revenues for subsequent periods due to the mix of futures and ‚Äúat once‚Äù orders, exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, discounts and returns, which may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, and because a significant portion of the business does not report futures orders.
I think there's a decent chance that the stock market will crash in the next year or two ó maybe dropping 30% or more. Even without a crash, I think it's likely that stocks will deliver poor returns from today's level over the next 10 years.†Not negative returns, mind you, but poor returns ó average annual returns (including dividends) of only about 3% per year. Given that stocks are usually expected to return about 10% per year, that's pretty crappy. It's not crappy enough that I'm dumping my stocks. I expect bonds and cash to deliver lousy returns over the next 10 years, too ó maybe even worse than stocks. And I'm scared we'll eventually get some rapid inflation, which stocks should provide some protection from (unlike bonds and cash). But I'm not expecting the double-digit gains we've had from stocks over the last few years to continue much longer. Why not? Two reasons: 1) Stocks are expensive relative to earnings. 2) Earnings are much higher than normal. Over the next 10 years, I expect both of those factors ó stock prices vs. earnings, and earnings themselves ó to regress to means, depressing stock returns in the process. In other words, I do not think "this time is different." I think "this time is the pretty much the same." Every other time we have been in a situation like this, stock prices and earnings have regressed to means.† This isn't investment advice, by the way. †It's just one guy's opinion. And, as I said, I'm not fleeing the market ó because I'm a very long-term investor and because there's not much else out there that looks attractive to invest in.† Why I think stocks are going to deliver lousy returns over the next 10 years There's one thing that most stock-market pundits agree on, including me:†Over the long haul, stocks track earnings. If corporate earnings grow at a compelling rate for a long time, stocks generally follow them up. If corporate earnings stagnate or tank, meanwhile, stocks generally follow (or even precede) them down. Of course, this relationship is not tight or direct. Stock prices move much more violently and frequently than earnings, so they oscillate wildly around the long-term earnings trend. This fluctuation makes short-term stock performance hard to predict. Not only is it hard to predict what earnings are going to do (as you will see in the charts below, earnings do not grow in a smooth, straight line, and analysts almost always miss the turning points). It is also hard to predict what stocks are going to do in response to those earnings. The smartest approach to individual investing is to stop trying to predict near-term stock and earnings moves and, instead, invest most of your portfolio in †low-cost, tax-efficient index funds.†That is what I learned to do, after a decade of trying to predict stock moves on Wall Street, and it has served me well. During my decade on Wall Street, I was right a lot of the time and wrong some of the time. That performance actually made me considered a good analyst ó I was ranked at or near the top of my category for several years. Alas, when I was wrong, I was really wrong. And those mistakes cost me and my clients a fortune. Here's the good news: As hard as it is to predict stock and earnings performance over the short term, it is relatively easy to predict them over the long term. Over the long term ó 10 years or more ó earnings tend to grow at about 6% per year. Similarly, over the long term ó 10 years or more ó stocks tend to track that earnings growth. (For the past century or so, stocks have actually returned about ~10% per year ó the ~6% nominal earnings growth plus ~4% from dividends.) Importantly, however, this growth ó earnings and stock returns ó has not come in a straight line. Here's a chart of stock performance relative to earnings performance for the past ~150 years. It's from Professor Robert Shiller, of Yale University, who called both the stock-market bubble of the late 1990s and the housing bubble of the mid-2000s Note two things: 1) Stocks (black) generally track earnings (green). 2) Neither earnings nor stocks grow in a smooth, straight line (on the contrary). Robert ShillerStocks (black) vs. Earnings (green), 1870-2013 If you listen to Wall Street analysts, you will frequently hear predictions that earnings will grow. And those predictions make sense. Earnings do usually grow. Alas, sometimes, earnings don't grow. And when they don't grow, they don't generally just sit there. On the contrary, they often tank. And stocks, unfortunately, often tank with them. Don't believe it? Let's take a closer look at earnings growth, this time over the past half century. This next chart is from the St. Louis Fed. Note two things: 1) Over the long haul, earnings have grown strongly (~6% per year trend). 2) This growth has been interrupted by long fallow periods and violent crashes. St. Louis FedAfter-tax corporate profits, 1947-2013 The "fallow periods" for earnings growth included the late 1960s and the early 1980s (both 5-10 years of flat to down earnings). The violent crashes included the late 1990s (~5 years to recover) and the late 2000s (~5 years to recover.) What causes earnings growth to fluctuate so much? Well, there are two big drivers of earnings growth: 1) Revenue growth. 2) Profit margins. Revenue growth these days is considerably slower than average, because the economy is so weak. What has made earnings grow so much in recent years is not revenue growth, but expanding profit margins. As the chart below shows, profit margins have expanded so much that they are now at the highest levels in history, by a mile: St Louis FedAfter-tax profit margins. In addition to noting that profit margins are at the highest level in history, please note something else about this chart: Profit margins are highly volatile, and they have always regressed to (and past) the mean. If anyone tells you that corporate earnings are just going to keep on growing forever, therefore, ask them the following question: "So, it's different this time? This time, corporate profit margins are going to stay at the highest levels in history?" (They won't likely have a good answer for that. They'll probably bob and weave a bit.) Even if corporate revenue growth accelerates, this acceleration will not be enough to drive strong additional earnings growth if corporate profit margins regress to the mean. So all those who are predicting that we will have strong earnings growth and excellent stock performance for the next several years had better pray that profit margins don't regress to the mean. Now, let's look at stock prices relative to earnings. As the long-term chart below shows, again from Professor Shiller, stock prices relative to earnings fluctuate wildly and also tend to regress to means. Right now, using Professor Shiller's valuation methodology (which actually attempts to "normalize" the profit margin problem above), stocks are priced at a very high level relative to earnings. Professor Robert ShillerS&P 500 price-earnings ratio, 1870-2013 (blue) Specifically, as you can see in the chart above, stocks are now trading at a price-earnings ratio of about 24X. That compares to a long-term average of about 16X. Over the long haul, I expect that price earnings ratio to regress to the mean.† Even if Professor Shiller's "smoothed" earnings continue to grow, therefore, I expect stock performance to be poor relative to that earnings growth. And, eventually, sometime in the next decade, I expect stocks to trade at about 16X normalized earnings (earnings on average profit margins). By the way, I'm not the only guy who thinks stock performance is going to blow. A fund manager named John Hussman also thinks so. John Hussman thinks it's possible that the stock market will go higher from here ó in the final speculative blow-off of a speculative bubble ó but then he thinks stock performance is going to stink. Hussman has produced a few additional charts that you should definitely take a look at. First, here's a chart in which Hussman compares profit margins (blue) to future earnings growth (red). The profit margin line (blue) uses the left-hand scale and shows profit margins at any given time. The earnings growth line (red) shows annualized future 4-year earnings growth from that point in time. What the chart shows clearly is that high profit margins today produce lousy earnings growth over the next several years, and vice versa. And the chart also shows, again, that today's profit margins are the highest they have ever been. For what it's worth, John Hussman expects earnings to shrink by 5%-15% per year for the next 3-4 years. Imagine what stocks will do if earnings do that! Hussman Funds And now for stocks ... In case you're skeptical about the value of earnings analysis, John Hussman includes two charts comparing stock performance with other valuation measures. The first compares price-to-revenue (blue line) with subsequent 10-year stock performance. It tells the same story as the earnings analysis. In fact, this analysis suggests that stock price performance will be negative for the next 10 years. (Fortunately, we should collect some dividends, which should boost returns to about 3% per year. Hussman Funds Hussman's second valuation analysis compares the market value of non-financial stocks relative to GDP with future 10-year stock performance. It tells the same story: lousy future stock performance. Hussman Funds So, is the stock market going to crash?† I don't know. But it certainly wouldn't surprise me. Today's record-high profit margins will probably correct at some point, and when they do, I expect stocks will follow. What would really surprise me, meanwhile, is if stocks kept rocketing upwards at 10+% per year the way they have over the past four years. Unless we get rip-roaring inflation, which is certainly possible (and, in fact, is another important reason to own some stocks), I expect stocks to do poorly over the next 10 years. And after adjusting for inflation, regardless of what it turns out to be, I expect stocks to be trading at about this level in another 10 years.
REUTERS/Ali Jarekji Jordanian taekwondo instructor Mustafa Dasan breaks cement slabs with his elbow.The stock market's losing streak finally ended after five straight down days amid some economic data and Fed-speak. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
APRepublicans asked for so many of the party's priorities in a bill to raise the debt ceiling that the White House is surprised they didn't attach a "birther bill." "The only thing I didnít see on it was a birther bill attached to it," Carney told reporters Thursday at the White House press briefing, a tongue-in-cheek reference to the controversy that first popped up in 2011 over questions about President Barack Obama's birthplace. House Republican leadership said Thursday that it will move a bill to raise the debt ceiling that contains a laundry list of conservative wishes, complicating prospects for a deal before an Oct. 17 deadline. Carney rejected those items, which include:† Carney also reiterated the Obama administration's position, which is that the President won't negotiate over raising the debt ceiling.†On Wednesday, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew†set a firm, drop-dead date of Oct. 17†for Congress to raise the nation's debt limit or risk default."The debt ceiling has to be raised," Carney said Thursday. "It is not a concession to anybody to do that. It is not a concession to Republicans to do their constitutionally mandated job." He also accused Republicans of "holding the American people hostage."
REUTERS/ Lucy NicholsonMorgan Stanley is out with a new report on "secular growth" stocks. That is, 40 stocks that are expected to grow independent of the fluctuations of the business cycle. Tech stocks make up 40% of the list, playing into "Cloud, Social, Mobile, and Big Data themes." The next most common stock is retail at 18% featuring restaurants, online retailers, and performance apparel. "Morgan Stanley analysts believe that the names selected for this report can grow strongly even if the global economy grows more slowly than our current, below-trend GDP forecasts," according to the report. Note: The EPS growth is the projected compound annual growth rate (CAGR) from 2012-2015, the PE estimates are based on 2013 Morgan Stanley research expectations, and the PEG ratio refers to the price-earnings to growth ratio which is an indicator of the stock's valuation. Growth stocks with lower PEGs are generally considered cheaper.
With record high divorce rates and the growing popularity of cohabitation, there‚Äôs hardly a cookie cutter financial plan for today‚Äôs modern couples. But whether they are married or live-in life partners, couples who choose to use separate financial planners could be causing more problems for themselves than they realize. Keith Singer, president of Singer Wealth Management in Boca Raton, Fla., often deals with seniors who have remarried and would rather stick to their own guns financially. ‚ÄúWe just had a couple that came in today and they‚Äôve been together 10 years and have separate houses,‚Äù he told Business Insider. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs super frugal and has a couple million bucks but he doesn‚Äôt really need the money. Her kids help support her. There was definitely a conflict there. We almost had to ask for a mediator between them. It‚Äôs difficult in that case to help them both meet their individual financial goals along with their joint goals.‚Äù Financial harmony in relationships is almost as important as intellectual attraction. When spouses or partners attempt to keep their finances separate, they create a logistical nightmare for their financial planners to sort through and leave themselves both vulnerable to losses if the relationship doesn‚Äôt work out. ‚ÄúTrying to coordinate the plans of two different planners to form a comprehensive strategy for the couple would generate a nightmare of complications,‚Äù said Gil Armour of SagePoint Financial, Inc. in San Diego, Calif. ‚ÄúBoth parties just need to be comfortable with the planner before beginning the financial planning engagement. Even though the risk tolerances or investment experiences of the two parties may be different, a good planner can make sure that the needs of both parties are met in an overall plan.‚Äù Oftentimes, the key to joint financial planning is learning to compromise on a plan that fits your unique relationship. Both Armour and Singer have clients who keep individual bank accounts and maintain a joint account for household expenses, a plan that gives each partner a sense of autonomy but still keeps them connected in their common goals. ‚ÄúI always recommend having both parties meet with a planner at the same time,‚Äù Armour said. ‚ÄúOccasionally you get a couple where one person has absolutely no interest and the other spouse handles everything. As long as they‚Äôre comfortable with that, I can proceed and do my best to let them both know what we're doing. In most cases you have at least some modicum of interest for both parties.‚Äù Here are some rules of the road when it comes to financial planning for couples:¬† The best time to find a joint financial planner: Before you commit. Armour: ‚ÄúBefore marriage would be ideal because typically money problems are one big source of conflict in a marriage. We don't want any big surprises, like ‚ÄòOh my gosh you still owe $100,000 in college loan debt.‚Äô It‚Äôs best to put everything on the table beforehand so people can enter into marriage or long-term partnership with open eyes.‚Äù How often to revisit your joint financial plan: Once per year to start, then every two to three years thereafter (varies). Armour: ‚ÄúI‚Äôd say check in with your planner annually unless there has been no major change to your finances. Big changes are the addition of a child, a divorce, a big inheritance, anything that would change your investment picture.‚Äù Topics that are important to cover with your planner: End of life care, estate plans, your retirement savings, trusts. Armour: ‚ÄúYou can certainly prepare for things like death or disability with proper forms of insurance if needed. Divorce is tough to plan for other than in most cases there are state laws determining division of assets depending on how long they've been together. If two people come together and there are significant assets already, you can set up separate accounts and not commingle them. They can keep existing assets separate and not mixed together.‚Äù Singer: ‚ÄúOne of the common scenarios is when one spouse has assets they want to leave to their kids but they also don‚Äôt want their new spouse have a [lesser] lifestyle. So you can create something called a Q Tip trust, which lets you leave money in a trust and provides that during the surviving spouse‚Äôs lifetime, he or she gets income out of it. At their death, the money goes to their kids.‚Äù
This post is sponsored by Principal Financial Group. Who says you can't get anything for free? The¬†Principal Financial Group recently tapped a few lucky and willing New Yorkers to catch a free cab ride AND get free financial advice with its "Take Action On Your Financial Dreams" program. Watch the video below to see advisors from The Principal give a "financial lift" to both¬†a¬†small-business owner and a mergers &amp; acquisitions executive about growth, protection, and investing for retirement ‚Äî all from the back of an amazingly clean-looking cab. Find out more about Sponsor Posts.
Fox Business Network correspondent Charlie Gasparino tweeted a scoop on Lazard Capital Markets, and Lazard Ltd. stock is going wild. Lazard Capital Markets ‚Äî a privately-owned broker-dealer ‚Äî was spun off from Lazard Ltd. in 2005 when the boutique investment bank went public. However, Gasparino's tweets about the former still for some reason sent shares of the latter surging before falling again. Here are Gasparino's tweets: FBN NEWS: execs at lazard capital mkts scrambling to find new jobs as speculation swirls of imminent sale, MBO or shutdown co not commenting FBN NEWS: fate of lazard capital mkts hangs in the balance as firm ponders future; execs say decision is imminent FBN NEWS: lazard capital mkts shopping itself Thinkorswim
If Congress can't agree on a budget soon, we may witness a government shutdown. But that doesn't mean all hell will break loose. "In the event of a government shutdown, functions of the federal government considered ìnon-essentialî cease while ìessentialî functions continue," write Barclays' Michael Gapen and Michael Gavin. "Our economists estimate that for every week the government is shut down, real federal government consumption and gross investment falls 1.6% q/q saar and quarterly real GDP growth declines 0.1pp. This is consistent with the CBOís estimate that the approximately four-week shutdown in 1995-96 reduced growth 0.5pp in Q4 95. Thus, a short federal government shutdown is unlikely to dampen real GDP growth significantly and adverse market reactions are more likely to be short-lived." "The market reaction to the relatively short 1995-96 government shutdown was mild (Figure 1)," they added. "A longer shutdown, however, could have negative indirect effects on private sector activity and market sentiment." The 1995-96 shutdown was actually the longest of the 17 government shutdowns since at least 1976. Regardless, it would be important for the any shutdown to be resolved quickly. BarclaysMeh.
The Weirdest Things About America, a collection of casual observations of the USA by an Indian exchange student, is a hilarious and insightful critique of American life. It is twice as entertaining to those who know India.Nellie Thompson, my girlfriend and co-author, and I both lived in Mumbai as working professionals--she for six months and I for the better part of a year. Here we offer our own casual observations on what we, as Americans, found amusing, thought-provoking, and downright strange about life in India.We lived in Mumbai's Bandra neighborhood in an area called Pali Hill--a leafy, historically Christian enclave best known for its heavy expat presence and its close proximity to Bollywood. Though we travelled quite a bit within the country and explored Mumbai extensively, we merely scratched the surface of what India has to offer. We do not claim to be authorities on India, but we did walk away with a profound love for the country.In that spirit, we wanted to share our anecdotal (and completely subjective) observations from our time there. We invite readers to share their own experiences, as well. ---- About the authors: Nicholas Kapur heads products and development for SumZero, a collaborative research platform for investment funds. In India, Nick managed business development projects for a US-based financial services firm.Nellie Thompson is a public health nutritionist and an Indian food enthusiast. She consults for HealthxDesign, a Brooklyn-based organization that promotes community health through urban design. She also does branding and marketing for doublehighfive bk. In India, she was a research fellow for the strategic philanthropy firm, Dasra.
Courtesy of Nasty GalThere are some CEOs that can make running a company look ridiculously easy.¬† Then there are some who can do it with, well, a certain je ne sais quoi. We've scoured the world to find the sexiest Chief Executives on the planet. Sexiness, we will remind you, is a subjective measure ‚Äî and it's not just about looks. It's also about success, power, ambition, charisma, altruism, fashion sense, and style.¬† For this ranking, we have also only included CEOs of companies with at least 100 employees. If you're looking for the Sexiest Startup CEOs, just check back in a while...
en.wikipedia.org Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport has a strange secret, according to the Russian press. Moskovsky Komsomolets writes that 20 billion euros ($26 billion) has been sitting in the airport since 2007.¬† The Moscow tabloid reports that a man named Farzin Koroorian Motlagh shipped the money from Frankfurt but has never arrived to collect it. Now the money sits in limbo, as it cannot be seized by the Russian authorities nor given to anyone other than Motlagh under Russian law as he did not specify a recipient. It's an odd situation. MK reports that the cash is being stored in pallets which fit 100 million euro. There are reportedly 200 pallets, each weighing around 1 ton. The total weight of the cash is listed as 200 tons. So where did the cash come from, and who is Mr. Motlagh? A scanned passport included in the article was issued by Iran, and MK reports that he is listed as an employee of the Central Bank in the United Arab Emirates. A Facebook page claiming to belong to him lists his current address as Tehran, while a search for his name brings up a number of murky-sounding investment companies. A report on an Iranian news website ties his name to a million-dollar fraud involving the UAE and MK suggests it could be the remains of Saddam Hussein's secret fortune. Of course, take the whole thing with an enormous grain of salt ‚Äî a press contact for the airport told Ria Novosti that the story was "delirium." That may be true ‚Äî 20 million euros is so huge, Lenta.ru points out it's comparable to the GDP of countries such as Estonia, Cyprus, Afghanistan and Nepal, and twice as much as Russia will spend on education in 2014. Even so, if you know any more about the alleged cash, Russia! Magazine helpfully lists the contact details for Sheremetyevo's lost and found.
We're going to hit the debt ceiling on October 17. Barack Obama has said he won't negotiate at all, and is demanding a totally clean lift. The GOP, on the other hand, is coming out with a preposterous wish list of demands in exchange for a hike to the debt ceiling. Per the National Review, some of the demands include: Of course Obama will agree to none of those things, and the offer also makes it clear that the GOP's debt ceiling ploy isn't even about the debt, but just using the debt ceiling as a leverage point to get what they want in government, even though they're in the minority. Here's what the GOP should do instead. Make the following offer: A hike in the debt ceiling on the condition that Obama approves the Keystone Pipeline. If Obama seems receptive, it will prove that he was lying about not being willing to negotiate. If Obama says no, he'll look unreasonable, not circumventing a crisis over something so minor and on something really popular. Polls show broad, bipartisan support for Keystone XL, and it's the environmentalist wing of the Democratic party that Obama is pandering to by not approving it. If the GOP could get out of its own way, this would be the move to make. Pew
It was just a week ago that the markets were worried that the Federal Reserve could taper, or gradually reduce, its stimulative large-scale asset purchase program. Today, Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota, is suggesting we may need even more stimulus to get unemployment down and the economy humming. The dovish Fed official employs buzz phrases like "whatever it takes," and he even suggests the Fed should ignore warnings of asset bubbles as it stimulates. From his speech today (emphasis added): ...But, as Paul Volcker said in his 1979 speech, it is not enough to formulate or communicate a goal. The Committee has to stick to its formulated approach‚Äîthat is, it must do whatever it takes to achieve its communicated goal. In the early 1980s, doing whatever it took meant being willing to keep money tight, even though interest rates and the unemployment rate rose to unusual heights. By doing whatever it took to achieve its goal, despite these short-term costs, the FOMC was able to bring down inflation and inflation expectations. Doing whatever it takes in the next few years will mean something different. It will mean that the FOMC is willing to continue to use the unconventional monetary policy tools that it has employed in the past few years. Indeed, it will mean that the FOMC is willing to use any of its congressionally authorized tools to achieve the goal of higher employment, no matter how unconventional those tools might be. Moreover, doing whatever it takes will mean keeping a historically unusual amount of monetary stimulus in place‚Äîand possibly providing more stimulus‚Äîeven as: It may not be easy to stick to this path. But I anticipate that the benefits of doing so, in terms of employment gains, will be significant... As one of the more dovish members of the Fed, Kocherlakota's remarks do not reflect the consensus. Read the whole speech at MinneapolisFed.org.
Running a startup is difficult. It's hard to meet the right people. It can be lonely at times.†It's tough to get attention for your fledgling venture. Money is tight, and sometimes that prevents young companies from participating at events that would help them solve these challenges. Business Insider's STARTUP 2013 conference knows this and is here to help. †"Startup Row" exhibits are available for $999. †This specially-priced event sponsorship is for startups that are under 2 years old and have raised less then $2 million in funding. Exhibiting on Startup Row is a great way to get your product or app noticed, network, and learn how to take your company to the next level at NYC's premier entrepreneurship conference. Sponsorship includes: There are a limited number of startup row exhibits available, so register today! Startup offers a jam-packed agenda with a morning full of classes†from General Assembly -- you'll have the opportunity to select your own curriculum from 15+ carefully-curated classes --†and an afternoon of†insights from top entrepreneurs and VCs,†including:  If you have questions about Startup Row or other sponsorship opportunities at Startup 2013, please contact†events@businessinsider.com. Follow†@BI_Events†on Twitter for Startup updates.
Stifel Nicolaus head of ETF trading and Strategy Dave Lutz passes along some commentary from Citi on the looming debt ceiling, and how fears over the political gridlock in Washington are starting to seep into fixed income markets. Yesterday, Citi analysts wrote that "some investors are beginning to avoid maturities that have the potential to receive delayed payments," saying they "expect these bills to continue to cheapen as the debt ceiling date approaches." The analysts were talking about the yield on the 1-month U.S. Treasury Bill, charted below alongside U.S. sovereign credit default swaps. "[Short rates are] getting sloppier today - even as equities, longer Treasuries, gold, CDS, and VIX contracts are not," says Lutz. "One thing I have learned over my decades doing this ‚Äî don't fight the Treasury market." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
BluCigsHermantown, Minn. became the latest municipality to issue a moratorium on e-cigarettes as¬†city council members voted in a six-month ban Wednesday.¬† They follows the likes of Seal Beach, Calif., Hastings, Mich., and Hennepin County, Minn.¬†in restricting the sale of the vaporized tobacco product.¬† New York City could be next. Multiple outlets reported last month that Mayor Bloomberg wants to treat them just like regular tobacco products, meaning they would pretty much be banned everywhere but your house. The Hermantown city council said they were actually taking a page from Duluth, which just passed a law taxing and regulating e-cigs in the same manner as regular tobacco products. Meanwhile, 41 states attorney generals have asked the FDA to issue a blanket ruling on how to treat e-cigs. The central issue in all this remains just how unhealthy e-cigarettes are. "...We decided to put a six-month moratorium in place to give us time to study what we ought to do,‚Äù Hermantown Mayor Wayne Boucher said according to the Duluth News Tribune.¬†‚ÄúWe want to take the emotion out of this issue and simply weigh the facts.‚Äù¬† That's almost exactly what they said in Seal Beach. ¬† The city of Seal Beach needs time in order to explore this new trend and determine whether or not there‚Äôs any potential impacts,‚Äù said Jim Basham, the city‚Äôs Director of Community Development. We've written about this issue previously, and the short answer is while we don't yet know everything, a few facts have emerged.¬† While e-cigs lack the tar and plant material that can lead to abnormal cell growth, nicotine itself remains a potent toxin.¬† And they in no way reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease that come with regular cigs. "E-cigarettes may not cause cancer, but that doesn't make them safe," our Jennifer Welsh said.¬† Also: e-cigarettes, or rather their charges, keep catching fire. They've nearly burnt down a Phoenix apartment , and the other day a child suffered burns after his mom's charger exploded in their car. Many states have already banned the sale of electronic cigarettes to minors, and some already treat them as regular cigarettes in restricting their use indoors. New York City Council is not expected to vote on legislation for another couple of months, the New York Post says. While sell-side equity analysts remain largely bullish on e-cigarettes' potential sales growth, most have included ramped up regulations in their bear cases. If there's one thing analysts and smokers themselves both can't stand, it's this kind of uncertainty.
Getty Images/Andrew BurtonThe Kansas City Federal Reserve just released its September report on monthly manufacturing activity, and many of the survey's respondents had interesting things to say about the state of the labor market. "We saw slightly slower growth this month, but firms were much more optimistic about industry activity in†early 2014," said Kansas City Fed vice president and economist Chad Wilkerson in the release. "Worker shortages remained a problem at many firms." 18% of respondents to the survey reported an increase in headcount at their firms, while 63% reported no change and 18% reported a decrease.†11% reported an increase in the average length of the employee workweek, while 75% reported no change and 12% reported a decrease. The anecdotes from regional manufacturers included in the report point to a number of problems firms are having in the labor market. First and foremost appears to be a shortage of skilled workers. One respondent even mentions having trouble hiring "engineers and accountants." Below are a few of the anecdotes:
REUTERS/ Gary CameronWashington is beginning to coalesce around the familiar fear that Congress will not raise the debt ceiling, meaning the United States government would not be able to meet its debt obligations for the first time in history. "The debt ceiling crisis will become very real very soon," Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere warned clients.†Treasury Secretary Jack Lew has†set the very soon deadline for October 17. But if the headwind is coming, markets haven't seen it yet. "We look at options prices for the S&amp;P 500 as well as stocks with the highest revenue exposure to government, finding that relatively little fear is priced in,"†wrote Goldman Sachs' Robert Boroujerdi. In other words, Wall Street isn't scared this time. Barclays' Barry Knapp has a similar take. He even sardonically included the following proverb in his note to clients: "'In any dispute the intensity of feeling is inversely proportional to the value of the issues at stake' -Sayreís Law." He explains: While our introductory quote sounds cynical and we are by no means dismissive of the long-term risks of the large increase in U.S. federal government debt, we think the risks to the markets of a government shutdown and/or reaching the debt ceiling are significantly lower than in the summer of 2011. Further, we think there is a high probability of an outcome later this fall that will be welcomed by the growth sensitive equity market in stark contrast to the 2011 debt ceiling debate when the equity market bore the brunt of the selling. What gives? Why is 2013 different than 2011? First, the risk of U.S. sovereign downgrade risk is lower than in 2011, according to Knapp. Also, the support from the Federal Reserve is stronger this time: In 2011, QE2 ended and Operation Twist was not yet in place, thus the Fedís balance sheet was on hold. Up until last weekís Fed decision, we believed the equity market was much more at risk to wrangling in Washington. However, with the Fedís decision to not SepTaperónoting fiscal concernsó and still supporting the portfolio balance channel, we believe the equity market is less vulnerable. Knapp is referring to the Fed's surprising call to not taper its asset purchasing program known as quantitative easing. It appears the upshot of that decision has been a calming of market jitters over fiscal matters, which was one of Chairman Bernanke's intentions.† But overall, 2013 is just not as worrisome as 2011. Knapp points to this chart showing an improved fiscal situation. Barclays None of this is totally satisfying, but in a comment to Business Insider, Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus basically summed up the mood on Wall Street. The antics have gotten old, though maybe there are some signs of stress creeping in. I tend to think Wall Street has gotten numb to the antics out of a very partisan DC process.†† The Current fight (Budget to keep government running) seems to be a non-event to the market, except for some defense contractors - higher focus is now on the Debt Ceiling, which we could hit in Mid-Oct - as a key event.†† Seeing stress building in the 4 week notes right now that come due, right when the government is out of money to pay the coupon So far, the stresses building in the market aren't grabbing headlines, but if history is any guide we should get some real market freakout before it's all over.
Market consensus seems to have crystallized around the fact that Debt Ceiling Debate 2013 has much less potential to harm markets compared to its 2012 or 2011 versions. Cardiff Garcia at FT Alphavillesummarized well that standard view: To the seasoned finance blogger, US Congressional asshattery lacks the terrifying intrigue it had in 2011. "The world was in worse shape back then. It was pre-LTROs in Europe and high season for Eur-exit speculation, while in the US we were confronting another dispiriting summer slowdown and the legitimate possibility of a double-dip recession. As the possibility that the debt ceiling wouldnít be lifted in time became frighteningly real, financial markets started flashing signs of acute distress, and consumer confidence cratered." We got through it. The debt ceiling was raised enough to avoid approaching it again until after the end of the 2012 electionÖ And itís also been easy to think that once again Congress will come to its senses at the last minute and, at the very least, avoid catastrophe. Cardiff Garcia, by citing Ezra Klein, actually goes on to lay out why this yearís situation could be more dangerous than currently assumed. But letís put the politics aside, since thatís not my area of expertise. What about the market comparison between 2011 and 2013? Rather than talk in broad sweeping generalizations, here are the facts: † So was the world in ìworse shapeî back then? Were we confronting a possible double dip recession in the U.S.? No. The trailing U.S. data was actually better in July 2011 than in Sept 2013. Across the board better. You could argue that the forward-looking forecast was not as optimistic, but thatís not hard data, simply a guess. The hard data was better in July 2011 than it is today. Moreover, the SPX index, valued on trailing 12 month earnings, was actually cheaper. We were only 2 years into an economic recovery, not 4 years (for you business cycle followers). In short, stocks were priced more cheaply, and at an earlier part of the cycle. How about the resolution of the debt ceiling? What actually happened in the summer of 2011? Hereís the ABC News excerpt from July 31, 2011, when Obama and Boehner came to a last-second agreement (as is expected to happen this time around): ABC Newsí Z. Byron Wolf (@zbyronwolf) reports: It took the threat of economic collapse and a long, contentious negotiation ó and there will still be votes in Congress before itís truly done ó but lawmakers from both parties and the White House have reached a deal to raise the nationís credit limit ó the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling ó by $2.4 trillion, likely through 2012. This all happened over the weekend, with the announcement on Sunday, July 31st. SPX Futures shot up 1% on Sunday evening on the news. Prior to the announcement, the SPX index had been selling off, but had held its 200 day moving average on Friday, July 29th. †
Flickr/Courtney Boyd MyersWhen Kelli Space graduated from Northeastern University in 2009 with $200,000 of student loan debt, she panicked. Given that she had an entry-level office manager job that didn‚Äôt pay much, Space knew that it was going to be tough to pay back that debt on her own. But instead of deferring her payments‚Äîor not paying them at all, like many grads end up doing‚Äîshe started a crowdfund, which is the practice of funding a project or venture by raising small amounts of money from a vast pool of people online. ‚ÄúIn total, I received $13,000 from strangers around the world,‚Äù she says. And although that amount only made a small dent toward paying off her debt, it had a big impact on her career trajectory‚Äîthe experience inspired Space and three friends to start¬†Zero Bound, a company that helps students and graduates crowdfund their own student loan debt in exchange for community volunteering. Space has not one but two lofty goals with Zero Bound.¬†‚ÄúWe hope to use the trend of crowdfunding to not only help a generation pay off their debt, but also increase volunteerism among an age bracket that actually volunteers the least,‚Äù she says. ‚ÄúAnd, to that end, I believe that crowdfunding can be a largely beneficial way to raise the funds to make that happen.‚Äù Space isn‚Äôt alone in her thinking. Since 2011, crowdfunding efforts have more than tripled, and current campaigns are projected to raise more than $5.1 billion worldwide in 2013. But what started out as a way to enable businesses and individuals to raise money for creative endeavors without relying on such traditional financing sources as banks‚Äîtake the indie Veronica Mars Movie Project, which raised over $5 million on Kickstarter in just 30 days‚Äîhas morphed into a means for literally anyone to ask for money ‚Ä¶ for literally anything. ‚ÄúCrowdfunding is definitely branching out into multiple areas, including personal causes,‚Äù says Ellen Sperling, cofounder of crowdfunding site¬†YouveGotFunds.com. And, by personal, we‚Äôre talking about everything from surgeries to honeymoons.¬†Why, you ask? ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs partly because the costs for many of these regular items have skyrocketed,‚Äù she says. ‚ÄúMedical fees are through the roof, and even if you have health insurance, they don‚Äôt always cover certain medications and procedures, like fertility treatments.‚Äù The same applies to financing higher education. ‚ÄúWhy would college students want to graduate owing $150,000-plus in loans,‚Äù Sperling says, ‚Äúif they have family, friends and possibly community members who can help, enabling them to start their careers in a better place?‚Äù Take James and Adena Reimer, a¬†Canadian couple who started a campaign on FundAnything.com when James, who‚Äôd been battling cystic fibrosis and bromchiolitis obliterans, needed a second lung transplant. They were hoping to raise $10,000 to ‚Äúpay for medical bills that weren‚Äôt being covered by my home province,‚Äù says James, 29. ‚ÄúWe also had other expenses, like plane tickets to fly my mom out to help, and emergency taxi trips to the hospital.‚Äù RELATED:¬†8 Ways to Head Off High Medical Costs They ended up raising a whopping $43,000‚Äîand were overcome with the outpouring of support. ‚ÄúIf it wasn‚Äôt for crowdfunding, we‚Äôd probably have to take out a loan or beg family members,‚Äù says James. ‚ÄúIt was a huge blessing!‚Äù Couples are also turning to crowdfunding to help make their dreams of having kids come true. Nate and Christy Kujawa of Spokane, Wash., had been trying to get pregnant for about four years with no success. After multiple doctor visits, Christy received a devastating double diagnosis of psoriatic arthritis and Crohn‚Äôs disease‚Äîand then Nate learned that he had multiple sclerosis. Physicians told them that they had a 2% chance of conceiving naturally, but a 95% chance with IVF. The only problem? It‚Äôs an expensive solution. So they turned to the Internet. ‚ÄúI got the idea from a client of mine,‚Äù says Christy, 31. ‚ÄúWe were talking about how expensive [IVF] was, and she suggested I [start a crowdfund]. I actually knew a few people who had done funding for cancer treatment, and to help replace things due to a house fire, but no one specifically for IVF.‚Äù To date, the Kujawas have already raised one quarter of their $12,000 goal‚Äîand they say that the response has been overwhelming. RELATED: IVF, Adoption &amp; More: What Will It Cost You? Most people cringe at the thought of asking for financial support, and tend to proceed with caution when asking friends or family for money‚Äîeven for worthy causes. So what makes doing it online so much more acceptable? ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a lot less uncomfortable to ask someone to check out your campaign than to put your hand out,‚Äù says Wyman. ‚ÄúAnd for life events, such as a wedding, look at it this way: It‚Äôs similar to registering for gifts at a store, except now the couple can ‚Äòregister‚Äô for something that‚Äôs more meaningful than china. And unlike just giving cash, guests know that their contributions are going toward a couple‚Äôs real goal.‚Äù ‚ÄúPeople just want to help others. It‚Äôs a strong emotion that drives the crowdfunding industry as a whole.‚Äù According to Sperling, crowdfunding isn‚Äôt just benefiting those raising the funds, either‚Äîit‚Äôs giving everyone a chance to give back. ‚ÄúSometimes people just want to help others,‚Äù she says. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a strong emotion that drives the crowdfunding industry as a whole.‚Äù RELATED: How to Budget for Giving All Year Long Before you jump on a crowdfunding bandwagon yourself, Wyman says that there are a few things you should know when it comes to creating a good campaign: 1. Set a Realistic Financial Goal. If potential contributors don‚Äôt think that you‚Äôll be able to reach your goal, they‚Äôll think twice about contributing to your campaign. 2. Craft a Smart Elevator Pitch. You should be able to explain your cause in two to three concise sentences. And before you share that pitch with potential donors, practice it on your friends and family. 3. Be Your Best Marketing Team. Tell everyone you know that you‚Äôve launched a campaign, and invite them to visit. And be sure to consistently update the campaign, so there‚Äôs a reason for people to keep on visiting your site.
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstJohn Boehner, hostage taker.In the series of debt limit fights we've had since 2011, Republicans' explanation for why they make demands in exchange for raising the limit has been that the debt is out of control, so debt limit increases must be combined with policies to control the debt. In 2011, John Boehner laid out the "Boehner rule": that there should be $1 in spending cuts for every $1 in debt limit increase. This rule was arbitrary, in that the spending cuts were measured over a 10-year budget window, but it was still a rule that tied added borrowing to fiscal austerity. And Boehner got his demands met in the Budget Control Act, which led to sequestration. In January 2013, House Republicans agreed to another debt limit increase in exchange for a requirement that the Senate must pass a budget resolution. This was a cave by Republicans‚Äîthe budget resolution didn't have to become law or even be reconciled with a House budget‚Äîbut at least it tied the debt limit issue to the federal budget. Now, Republicans are out with a list of demands for raising the debt ceiling, many of which have little or no connection to the federal debt. According to a report from National Review, they include: This is just a list of things Republicans would like to do if they ran the government. But they don't run the government. Instead, they are contending that it is a valid legislative strategy to use the leverage of the debt ceiling ‚Äî which will cause an economic crisis if it is not increased ‚Äî to demand their way on any unrelated issue. The pretense that debt limit fights are about the public debt is over. Some parliamentary systems (Australia's, for example) have a system where one house of parliament can block funding for the operation of government even when the other chamber is controlled by a different party. But in those systems, a deadlock over funding leads to early elections, so voters can decide which side should get its way about the budget. As Americans, we have no such luck. We're going to be stuck in this nightmare at least until the 2014 elections, or perhaps beyond. America's constitutional system only works if the divided branches of government are willing to work together to make consensual agreements about running the government. Republicans are showing themselves to be too irresponsible to make the American constitutional system work.
Even JPMorgan Chase's CEO Jamie Dimon has to show his ID to get through security.† Check out the photo from the Associated Press spotted by Jim Roberts:† AP ImagesJPMorgan Chase Chairman, President and CEO Jamie Dimon presents his driver's license to Justice Department security officer G. Rocher, as he arrives at the Justice Department in Washington, Thursday, Sept. 26, 2013. An $11 billion national settlement is under discussion to resolve claims over JPMorgan's handling of mortgage-backed securities in the run-up to the recession, said a government official familiar with ongoing negotiations among bank, federal and New York state officials. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)
Asa Mathat | D: All Things DigitalForget about Carl, Tim. Focus on the iPhone.I'm an Apple shareholder, so from a personal finance point of view, I don't hate the idea that famous activist investor Carl Icahn has taken a small stake in the company and started making demands. As a market observer and fan of Apple's products, however, I'm annoyed that Apple CEO Tim Cook is wasting his time talking to Icahn. A month or so ago, in case you missed it, †Icahn announced in a Tweet that he had bought a bunch of Apple stock and had just talked to Tim Cook on the phone.†Icahn's private conversation with Tim Cook had gone well, Icahn said, and Icahn said he planned to talk to Tim Cook again soon. And now CNBC is reporting that Icahn and Cook are going to hang out together in New York next week. Now, again, as an Apple shareholder, I'm not going to object too loudly to the fact that Icahn seems to be able to jawbone Apple's stock higher whenever he wants. But I have two issues with this... First, in case anyone out there has ever been tempted to believe that the stock trading game is "a level playing field," this new relationship between Icahn and Cook should be a cold bucket of water in the face. You and I cannot buy Apple stock and then call Apple and demand to talk to Tim Cook. We also can't buy the stock knowing that we will likely be able to put ourselves firmly in the black merely by tweeting that we have bought the stock and saying that we have just had an encouraging private conversation with the company's CEO.† This incident should make crystal clear, in other words, that Carl Icahn and other big investors have a very significant "edge" over the rest of us. And in case we get tempted to play the trading game, we should remember who the suckers at the table are (Us). The second issue I have with the Cook-Icahn bromance is the reminder that Apple CEO Tim Cook is wasting his time having private conversations with investors. I realize that this is standard practice for public-company CEOs these days, but I wish it weren't. Companies like Apple already share an extraordinary amount of information with their investors. (Glance through even one quarterly filing and listen to one quarterly conference call and you'll be astounded at how much information you get.) They also publish press releases, announce products, and employ vast investor and media relations departments to spend gobs of time holding the hands of investors and reporters. CEOs and senior managers like Tim Cook also speak relatively frequently in public. So investors who don't feel like they're getting enough information from the conference calls, press releases, product announcements, investor relations folks, and SEC filings can try to pick up some nuggets from from those public utterances. Meanwhile, companies like Apple also have hundreds of major shareholders. Carl Icahn owns a billion dollars worth of Apple stock? So what. That's chump change. Dozens of Apple shareholders own more than a billion dollars of Apple stock. State Street owns $15 billion, for example. So does Fidelity. BlackRock owns $11 billion. Northern Trust, Bank of New York, Susquehanna, J.P. Morgan, Invesco, and T. Rowe Price each own $5-$6 billion. And so on. If Tim Cook is going to race to the phone when Carl Icahn calls, and meet him in New York, is Tim Cook also going to make time to talk to each of these other much-more-significant investors, too? Then there's the disclosure issue. Even if Tim Cook is extremely careful not to say anything in his private conversations with Icahn, et al, that he and Apple haven't said in public, there's always the "body language" thing. As any junior Wall Street analyst quickly learns, the way a CEO says something is often as (or more) informative than what the CEO actually says. And if this body language communicates anything helpful, well, then, that's information that other investors would probably like to have. And then there's the time commitment. As the CEO of one of the world's biggest companies, Tim Cook has a lot that he could spend his time on. Personally, as a small Apple shareholder and customer, I would rather have Tim Cook spend his time working on Apple's products and management team than wasting his time having private conversations with bigger Apple shareholders. I'd rather have him pressing Jony Ive to design a bigger iPhone, for example. I'd rather have him out trying to recruit a great leader for Apple's retail stores. I'd rather have him negotiating with China Mobile to try to cut a deal to have China Mobile sell the iPhone. I'd rather have him doing just about anything†other than having private conversations with investors--especially conversations that I'm not privvy to. If Tim Cook wants to get suggestions from Apple investors, that's different, and that's fine. But if Tim Cook wants to get investor suggestions, I'd rather he just say that and then provide an email address to which all investors can send them. But won't big investors like Carl Icahn be furious about being snubbed by Tim Cook? Don't these big investors have a right to have private conversations with Tim Cook? If Tim Cook refuses to waste his time talking to these investors, won't they, gulp, threaten to sell their stock? Yes, investors like Carl Icahn might be mad if Tim Cook refuses to talk to them. But so what. Let them be mad. These investors don't have a right to talk privately with the CEO of one of the world's biggest companies, especially when they own only one quarter of one percent of the company's stock. If these investors threaten to sell their stock because the CEO won't talk to them, then let them sell their stock. Carl Icahn didn't own Apple stock a few months ago, and he probably won't own it a few months from now. Apple doesn't need to keep Carl Icahn happy. And having Apple's CEO take the time to have private conversations with Carl Icahn is not just unfair all other Apple shareholders. It's also a colossal waste of time. If securities regulators are actually serious about trying to create a "level playing field," one of the things they should do is eliminate private meetings and conversations between senior managers and investors altogether. Without having the ability to have these meetings, or know what information is communicated in them, non-huge investors are at a major disadvantage. But the "private meetings with management" culture is now so entrenched that it will probably never be eliminated. The more practical step is for investors to understand that all the talk about a "level playing field" is ridiculous. But whether or not these meetings and conversations are kosher, there is still the question of whether they are a good use of a CEO's time. I would argue that they aren't. Investors and stocks are going to do what they are going to do, regardless of whether a CEO spends time kissing up to investors. And if a company puts up good numbers, the stock will take care of itself. As a smaller shareholder, I would far rather have the CEO of Apple spend time working on the company's products than having private conversations with bigger shareholders. So I wish Tim Cook would spend his precious time on Monday doing something other than meeting with Carl Icahn. Disclosure: I own Apple stock.
LATEST: The¬†Kansas City Fed's monthly report on regional manufacturing activity is out. The headline index unexpectedly fell to 2 in September from August's 8 reading. Economists were looking for no change. The decline in the index suggests that conditions are still improving, but at a slower pace. Below is a summary of the data from the release: Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity moderated somewhat in September but remained positive.¬†Producers‚Äô expectations for future activity increased markedly, while several manufacturers commented on rising labor shortages and wage pressures. Price indexes decreased slightly or were largely unchanged. The month-over-month composite index was 2 in September, down from 8 in August and 6 in July (Tables 1 &amp; 2, Chart). The composite index is an average of the production, new orders, employment, supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory indexes. The production index decreased at both durable and non-durable goods-producing plants, with the exception of machinery and computer equipment factories which posted slight gains. Most other¬†month-over-month indexes also fell. The production index plunged from 21 to 4, and the shipments, new orders, and order backlog indexes also decreased. The employment index eased after rising last month, and the new orders for exports index fell back into negative territory. The raw materials inventory index stayed flat at 0, while the finished goods inventory index decreased modestly. Below are comments from respondents to the Kansas City Fed's monthly survey: Click here for the full release ¬ª
The Bureau of Labor Statistics has published a preliminary estimate of the annual revisions it'll make to its establishment survey employment series.¬† This is the survey behind the monthly nonfarm payrolls report. According to the report, the BLS expects to revise up its payrolls number by 345,000 for the year ending March 2013. The final revision will come out in February 2014. Here's a breakdown of their preliminary finding. BLS
APHouse Republicans moved Thursday to to shift focus from a fight over the continuing resolution to keep the government funded to a¬†battle over raising the nation's debt ceiling. Even though failure to raise the debt limit would result in far more dire consequences for the economy than a government shutdown, polling presents compelling evidence for Republicans to pursue a fight on the debt ceiling. Numerous polls have shown that the GOP stands to take the brunt of the blame from the American public in the event of a shutdown. According to a recent CNN/ORC poll, 51% would blame Republicans for a shutdown, while only 33% would blame President Barack Obama. Polling on the debt ceiling is much less certain, and it reflects a lack of understanding from the American public about the consequences of hitting the debt ceiling. House Speaker John Boehner's office passed around Thursday morning a Bloomberg poll¬†that shows Americans do not support a debt-ceiling increase without any conditions. In fact, 61% said it's "right to require spending cuts when the debt ceiling is raised even if it risks default." That's a top-line number that Republicans think they can use to win the argument ‚Äî and, more importantly, bring Obama to the negotiating table. Of course, there are two big caveats to the poll number. First, by a 56-26 margin, Americans oppose the cuts of the so-called "sequester." Those were the cuts that went into effect earlier this year, as a result of the last debt-ceiling crisis. So though they may support vague "cuts" with the hike of the debt limit, Americans weren't happy with the last cuts that resulted from the negotiations. The other caveat is that the GOP plan on the debt ceiling isn't exactly about spending cuts ‚Äî it's a laundry list of conservative wishes, only some of which have anything to do with reducing the debt. But this is the fight Republicans think they can win.¬† "President Obama's plan has been and still is, More Debt, No Reform," House Majority Leader Eric Cantor said in a press conference Thursday, citing the Bloomberg poll.¬†"The American people have soundly rejected that."
apollonia666The debt ceiling debate is an awful, almost-annual slugfest that equally stupefies and mystifies everyone on Wall Street. Analysts and journalists alike find their inboxes flooded with bank reports about the downside of the country's descent into shutdown in the event that the government runs out of cash. And in the words of Jeff Macke everyone's wondering ó "why are we beholden to these idiots?" Everyone except for the most refreshing guys in finance right now. Why are they refreshing? Because they do not care at all ó not even one bitó about the debt ceiling fight. They probably don't even know who Senator Ted Cruz is. And who are they? These are your Wall Street chart guys ó the guys that trade based solely on price movement. Some of them are Chartered Market Technicians, and some of them just really liked graphs when they were kids. Regardless, at times like these when you want to filter out the screeching noise coming from D.C., they're the best people to know. All it takes to get some perspective is a quick e-mail. In my case, it was to J.C. Parets, founder and CEO of Eagle Bay Capital. Subject line: Do you care about the debt ceiling? (Nothing in the body of the e-mail. This is a good way to write an e-mail to a Wall Streeter.) The response. Verbatim: "You're barking up the wrong tree. I'm just here looking at my charts minding my own business you know what I'm saying? I don't have time to worry about debt ceilings and the government. These people are a hot mess. I can't.... You got a bunch of clowns reading each other Dr. Seuss. Why should I worry about what they're doing, or not doing?" This isn't to say that Parets doesn't know what's coming. It's just that his charts tell him, not Ted Cruz. And in the charts, the signs of something nasty coming on have been appearing for a while. "With each new high in the S&amp;P 500, less and less stocks are participating," Parets wrote. "No bueno. Less stocks above their 200 day (in up trends) with each new high, and less NYSE new 52-wk highs with each new high. This is all pointing to lower prices for averages. This is a "market of stocks" after all no?" In other words, the market's been running out of steam. To Parets, it doesn't matter why, especially not if it has to do with unnecessary political squabbling. "Because what the hell do natural gas futures have to do with Dr. Seuss," he asked. So yes, the financial media will trot out Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein, and he'll say the same thing he says every time. 'I'm in the business of risk management," he'll say, implying gently that Washington is introducing needless risk in the market. "I donít like the ballooning fight over the debt ceiling," Blankfein will say, without mentioning that it already looks bad in charts, of course. It's going to waste us some money, is what he means. And here's the thing: Everyone talks about how Wall Street, with its seemingly endless supply of campaign donations, owns Washington's politicians. How is it that on this one issue it seems like Wall Street has no say whatsoever? It boggles the mind.
Wikimedia CommonsRising mortgage rates have many worried about the toll it could take on the housing recovery. The 30-year mortgage rate saw a dramatic run up this summer to a two-year high of 4.58%, but clambered down to 4.32% in the latest survey. And from the beginning of May to the beginning of September total applications for home purchases and re-financings plummeted by 59.25% to October 2008 levels, writes Brian Jones at Societe Generale. But, he thinks all the concern about the "rate induced swoon in mortgage applications is overblown," for three key reasons. Here's a chart that show's that mortgage purchase applications do not track mortgage rates that closely: Societe Generale †
Despite what some might say to try to take it down, New York City is -- and always has been -- the greatest city in America. Or at the very least, the largest.¬† Using data from the Census Bureau, this chart shows the ranking of the top five cities in the United States every decade since 1790.¬† We were inspired by a similar chart showing the top 20 cities generated by user thessnake03 on the DataIsBeautiful subreddit.¬†We just zoomed in a bit.¬† It's pretty remarkable. You can see a whole bunch of awesome trends over time, like the dawn of the West Coast, the rise and fall of Detroit, and even the decline of southern cities following the Civil War. One thing, though, is abundantly clear. One city in America has remained top dog for over 220 years.¬† Walter Hickey /BI
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueFederal Reserve Board of Governors member Jeremy Stein listens during an open board meeting at the Federal Reserve in Washington December 14, 2012. Federal Reserve Governor Jeremy Stein is speaking today in Frankfurt, Germany on monetary policy. In his speech, Stein said the Fed should tie tapering of quantitative easing directly to a specific labor market indicator, like the unemployment rate. "My personal preference would be to make future step-downs a completely deterministic function of a labor market indicator, such as the unemployment rate or cumulative payroll growth over some period," said Stein. "For example, one could cut monthly purchases by a set amount for each further 10 basis point (0.1%) decline in the unemployment rate." Perhaps if the Fed decides to implement this policy in the future as a form of forward guidance on the tapering timeline, it will become known as the "Stein Rule." Last Wednesday, the Fed shocked markets with its decision to refrain from announcing the first tapering of the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing program. A reduction of $10-15 billion in the amount of purchases it makes each month was widely expected on Wall Street and among market participants. On Friday, St. Louis Fed president James Bullard said in an interview with Bloomberg that†the Fed shouldn't raise short-term interest rates if inflation is below 1.5%, and that a 1.5% inflation floor would "reassure markets" that have been swept up in turmoil as participants begin to anticipate a tightening of monetary policy.†He also said that he would recommend increasing the size of the central bank's quantitative easing program if inflation were to fall below 1%, a scenario he said would have him "pretty concerned." Bullard's remarks led Owen Callan, a fixed income dealer at Danske Bank Markets, to†quip in a tweet†that perhaps we've just seen the introduction of the "Bullard Rule." The Fed currently offers forward guidance on the future path of its main policy rate based on the "Evans Rule," named for Chicago Fed president Charles Evans. The rule, adopted by the Fed†at the conclusion of its December 2012 meeting, dictates that the Fed won't consider raising short-term rates "at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committeeís 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored."
In May, mortgage rates began to surge as the Federal Reserve warned that it could soon taper it large-scale asset purchase program, which included the purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury Securities and mortgage-backed bonds. This was putting pressure on the U.S. housing market, where home sales decelerated. However, rates have actually been pulling back a bit in more recent weeks, and they fell further after the Fed announced it would delay its taper. According to Freddie Mac the average 30-year fixed mortgage rate fell to 4.32% during the week ending September 26. This is a nine-week low.¬† It's down from 4.50% during the prior week.¬† However, it's still up from 3.40% a year ago. "Mortgage rates fell following the Federal Reserve announcement that it will maintain its bond buying stimulus," said Freddie Mac's Frank Nothaft. "These low rates should somewhat offset the house price gains seen the last number of months and keep housing affordability elevated. For instance, the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller 20-city composite house price index rose 12.4 percent over the 12-months ending in July, which represented the largest annual increase since February 2006. In addition, more than half of the cities had annual growth exceeding 10 percent and four cities saw increases exceeding 20 percent." Here's the chart from Freddie Mac: Freddie Mac
Delaware Child Predator Task ForceA now-former 59-year-old Bank of America vice president, Kirk Simmons, was arrested this summer for trying to have sex with a thirteen-year-old girl. † According to†The Associated Press, Simmons now†wants a public defender because he doesn't have any money in his bank account to pay for a lawyer himself.† Simmons was arrested in July by the Delaware Child Predator Task Force after responding to an online ad for paid sex with a thirteen year-old and making arrangements with her father, DelawareOnline†reported. The advertisement was actually created by undercover law enforcement authorities who arranged for a meet-up with Simmons at a Newark motel, the report said. Simmons, who showed up to the location expecting to have sex with the girl, also had a laptop and camera with him, DelawareOnline reported†citing investigators. He faces†charges related to attempted sex with a minor and attempted child pornography charges, according to †The AP. Simmons worked as a market information manager VP with Bank of America. He was fired after his arrest.†
The St. Louis Fed's "FRED" (Federal Reserve Economic Data) database is arguably the most amazing economics site on the Internet. The database allows you to chart more than 148,000 economic data time series from 59 national, international, public, and private sources, and FRED pages often show up pretty near the top in search engine results for any particular economic indicator. It's the go-to site for quick, easy retrieval and visualization of economic data. Below are the 10 most popular time series on the site (go to the front page and click on the "POPULAR SERIES" tab). St. Louis Fed St. Louis Fed St. Louis Fed St. Louis Fed St. Louis Fed St. Louis Fed St. Louis Fed St. Louis Fed St. Louis Fed St. Louis Fed

REUTERS/Richard ClementPending home sales fell 1.6% on the month in August, falling for the fourth straight month. missing expectations for a 1 percent fall. They were also up a more modest 2.9% year-over-year, compared with expectations for a 6.3% rise. Meanwhile, July's numbers were marginally revised lower to show a 1.4% MoM fall, and an 8.5% YoY rise. "Sharply rising mortgage interest rates in the spring motiv[at]ed buyers to make purchase decisions, culminating in a six-and-a-half-year peak for sales that were finalized last month," said NAR chief economist Lawrence Yun in a press release. "Moving forward, we expect lower levels of existing-home sales, but tight inventory in many markets will continue to push up home prices in the months ahead." Here's a look at the regional breakdown: In the Northeast the pending home sales index (PHSI) was up 4% on the month, and up 5.1% from a year ago. In the Midwest it fell 1.4% on the month, but is up 13.8% from a year ago. In the South the index fell 3.5% on the month, but is up 3.7% from a year ago. In the West it was down 1.6% on the month, but is up 1.7% from a year ago. Economists have been watching for the impact of higher mortgage rates on pending home sales activity and other housing data. The 30-year mortgage rate is at two-year highs of 4.50% in the week ending September 19. New home sales climbed 7.9% on the month in August, but this wasn't enough to offset the 14.1% fall in July, and the decline in July. Existing home sales have so far been beating new home sales, rising 1.7% on the month to an annualized pace of 5.48 million. Moreover, homebuilder confidence has stalled and housing starts have disappointed markets. Investors watch this number because it is considered a leading indicator of the housing market. The PHSI looks at all homes where a contract has been signed but the sale is not complete. NAR
Reuters/ Jack CusanoBill Ackman is back.† The billionaire activist investor's latest target Air Products said this morning that it's looking for a new CEO. Three new independent directors are also joining the industrial gas product maker's board. †Ackman's Pershing Square Capital has already agreed to vote in favor of them.† Air Products is Ackman's largest investment ever. He owns a 9.8% stake worth about $2.2 billion.† This stock was last trading up more than 1.7% in the pre-market. This summer, Ackman had unsuccessfully pushed JCPenney to replace its interim CEO Mike Ullman, who took over the helm again after Ron Johnson failed to turn around the struggling retailer.† After a very public fight, Ackman stepped down from the retailer's board and dumped his 39.1 million stake. † Anyway, here's the Air Products press release:† LEHIGH VALLEY, Pa.,†Sept. 26, 2013†/PRNewswire/ --†Air Products (NYSE:†APD) today announced that it will add three new independent directors to its Board of Directors and will commence a search to identify a successor to chairman and CEO†John E. McGlade, who will retire in 2014.† The actions reflect the Board's ongoing focus on best-in-class corporate governance and leadership succession planning to ensure the Air Products Board and management has the appropriate experience and expertise to deliver long-term value for Air Products shareholders. The CEO search will commence promptly, led by a newly formed search committee of the Board with the assistance of a leading executive search firm.† The search will be conducted in a manner consistent with recruiting an accomplished executive with the skills and experience necessary to successfully lead a large, global industrial gas company.† McGlade will continue to serve as chairman and CEO during the search process and then as chairman for an agreed-upon transition period in 2014.† The incoming CEO will also join the Board as a director. McGlade said, "Air Products is a long-cycle business, and we have taken significant actions in recent years to position the company for accelerated earnings growth in an economic recovery.† As I approach age 60 and the Board plans for my retirement, the actions our Board is announcing today will ensure an orderly leadership transition and a company that is well positioned to deliver long-term shareholder value.† We have had a constructive dialogue with Pershing Square, our largest shareholder, and are pleased they are supportive of the actions our Board is announcing today for the benefit of all Air Products shareholders." Bill Ackman, CEO of Pershing Square, said, "We invested in Air Products because it is a great business in an industry with excellent long-term prospects.† In recent weeks, we have been delighted to get to know John and the rest of the board working with them on their mission of continuous improvement and long-term shareholder value creation.† We look forward to a successful long-term partnership." The three new independent directors will join the Board immediately. †Two of the new independent directors,†Edward Monserand†Matthew Paull, will stand for election at the Air Products 2014 Annual Meeting. †Pershing Square has agreed to vote in favor of the company's slate of nominees recommended by the Board at the 2014 Annual Meeting.† The third independent director,Seifi Ghasemi, will stand for election at the 2015 Annual Meeting. †With the addition of the three new directors, three current Air Products directors will retire prior to the 2014 Annual Meeting in order to maintain an optimal board size. †Biographies of the new independent directors are below: Seifi Ghasemi, 69 Mr. Ghasemi is currently chairman and chief executive officer of Rockwood Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:†ROC), a global leader of inorganic specialty chemicals and advanced materials businesses.† Prior to joining†Rockwood†in 2001, he was with GKN plc, an†$11 billion†(revenues) global industrial company, where he served in various positions including chairman and CEO of GKN Sinter Metals and as a director of the Main Board of GKN plc.† From 1979 to 1997, he was with The BOC Group, a global industrial gas company now part of Linde AG, where he held a variety of senior positions including president of BOC Gases, Americas and, from 1996-1997, served as a member of the BOC Group Board of Directors.† He currently serves on the Board of Directors of EnerSys, the largest industrial battery manufacturer in the world, and as chairman of the Supervisory Board of CeramTec GmbH, a manufacturer and developer of advanced ceramic components.† He holds an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from†Stanford University†and received his undergraduate degree from Abadan Institute of Technology. Edward L. Monser, 63 Mr. Monser is currently president and chief operating officer of Emerson Electric Co. (NYSE:†EMR), a†$24 billion†(revenues) global industrial controls products company.† He is responsible for Emerson's day-to-day business operations and leads the company's profit review and other strategic planning processes. †He also directs the company's demand-driven supply chain, lean manufacturing, and international business activities, which include business development and investments in emerging markets. †Monser has more than 30 years of experience in senior operational positions at Emerson and has played key roles in globalizing the company, having held increasingly senior positions at the company, including chief operating officer (2001-2010), president of its Rosemount Inc. subsidiary (1996-2001), and various operations, new product development, engineering and technology positions.† He is a member of the Economic Development Board for†China's†Guangdong Province†and a past board member and past Vice Chairman of the U.S.-China Business Council.† He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from theIllinois Institute of Technology†and a B.A. in Education from†Eastern Michigan University. Matthew Paull, 62 Mr. Paull was senior executive vice president and chief financial officer of†McDonald's†Corporation from 2001 until he retired from that position in 2008. †Prior to joining†McDonald's†in 1993, he was a partner at Ernst &amp; Young where he managed a variety of financial practices during his 18-year career and consulted with many leading multinational corporations. †He was until recently the lead independent director of Best Buy Co. and chairman of the Board's Finance Committee.† Mr. Paull currently serves as a director of KapStone Paper and Packaging Corporation and WMS Industries Inc. and as a member of the Advisory Board of Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. †He also served as an advisory council member for the Federal Reserve Bank of†Chicago. †He holds a Master's degree in Accounting and a B.A. degree from the†University of Illinois. †About Air Product Air Products (NYSE:†APD) provides atmospheric, process and specialty gases; performance materials; equipment; and technology. †For over 70 years, the Company has enabled customers to become more productive, energy efficient and sustainable. †More than 20,000 employees in over 50 countries supply innovative solutions to the energy, environment and emerging markets. †These include semiconductor materials, refinery hydrogen, coal gasification, natural gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives.† In fiscal 2012, Air Products had sales approaching†$10 billion. †For more information, visitwww.airproducts.com.
APThe Treasury Department has set October 17 as the deadline for Congress to raise the debt ceiling. In one corner, Republicans have outlined their demands¬†for a bill¬†‚Äî including tax reform and a¬†one-year delay of the Affordable Care Act. Then there's President Obama, who has said the debt ceiling is simply non-negotiable. So that's where we are."Make no mistake ‚Äî¬†this will become a genuine crisis, far more ominous than the threat of a¬†government shut-down," writes Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere. Here's how Valliere puts it in a new note to clients: THE END GAME¬†is not in sight -- anyone who tells you they know exactly how this will turn out is lying. ¬†The options are mind-boggling. ¬†Could Treasury default? ¬†Highly unlikely, but the threat will grow. ¬†Could Treasury have to prioritize its payments? ¬†Officials say they won't, which means they will play the Social Security card -- good luck to the GOP explaining why grandma might not get her monthly check. ¬†Could the President raise the debt ceiling by executive authority? ¬†If default is imminent, we do not rule out this option. "The debt ceiling crisis will become very real very soon ‚Äî¬†a genuine headwind for the economy as investors and businesses and consumers get a bad case of the jitters," Valliere concludes.
@Carl_C_IcahnCarl Icahn is going to meet with Tim Cook on Monday, September 30 in NYC, according to CNBC (via Bloomberg Terminal).¬† Icahn recently bought a small stake in Apple. He's been a loud advocate for the company to crank up its dividend.¬† We assume that's what he and Cook are going to talk about. But, maybe Icahn has some thoughts on Apple TV, iWatches, and other breakthrough products.¬†
APHouse Republicans are prepared to move a bill to raise the debt ceiling that contains a laundry list of conservative wishes, complicating prospects for a deal before an Oct. 17 deadline.† Chris Kreuger, a D.C.-based analyst for Guggenheim Partners LLC, called it a "Dear Santa" list. In exchange for a suspension of the debt limit until the end of 2014, Republicans will demand the following, according to National Review's Jonathan Strong: Republicans appear ready to pass†a "clean" continuing resolution to keep the government funded beyond Sept. 30 once the Senate sends back its bill, even though it will be stripped of language that defunds Obamacare. The GOP's plan will be officially hashed out at a 9 a.m. meeting Thursday morning. But the debt-ceiling fight to come†looks to be even more worrisome than a potential government shutdown ó and the House GOP's opening bid has done nothing to assuage fears that a deal will get done. On Wednesday, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew set a firm, drop-dead date of Oct. 17 for Congress to raise the nation's debt limit or risk default. The White House has repeatedly said it won't negotiate over raising the debt ceiling, an effort to avoid a replay of the messy 2011 fight that ended with a downgrade of the nation's credit rating. Guggenheim's Kreuger continues to put the odds of "technical default scenarios"†at 40%.† "This list only underscores how difficult the debt ceiling raise will be to engineer," Kreuger wrote in a market commentary Thursday. "What is Obama offering? Nothing. Full stop. Ultimately, something symbolic will have to be given from the White House for a raise (which will happen) but with 21 days to go we base that on nothing more than blind faith because there is no evidence to suggest that this group of politicians can get out of the box they have created." House Republicans will look to pass their debt-ceiling bill as soon as Saturday.
Washington D.C. is setting up for yet another budget battle that threatens to shut down the government and potentially cause the U.S. to default on its debt. Yet, investors don't seem to be too worried. The volatility index ó a measure of investors' expectations for big price swings ó are near their post-financial crisis lows. "We estimate that little or no volatility premium for the debt ceiling debates is priced into the options markets on stocks most exposed to government spending cuts," said Goldman Sachs' Robert Boroujerdi in a new note to clients. "Complacency is even more pronounced on stocks with high government exposure," he added. "Fear priced into options on these stocks dropped over the past few months to new lows vs. SPX options." Boroujerdi is specifically talking about companies excluding health care and defense that derive at least 20% of revenue from the government. "Implied volatility for these stocks is at its lowest level since the financial crisis and has dropped sharply since the start of the year," he added. Indeed, Boroujerdi thinks these options, which effectively provide insurance against volatility, are cheap and worth buying. "Option prices are low following several months of solid US economic data and bullish equity performance," he added. "Options prices on government exposed stocks rose ahead of the sequester impact in 1Q, but have made new lows in recent weeks. Investors who expect a pullback on debt ceiling debate fears are likely to find puts on these stocks attractive." Goldman Sachs
Michael SantosAfter prison, Santos ran 10-mile distances in his garage during his period of home confinement. Here's a shot from one of those runs.Ex-convict Michael Santos had an exceptional experience in federal prison in many ways. He wrote several books while locked up for more than 25 years. He started dating a former high school classmate then married her. Santos also bought a pair of cheap cross-trainers from the prison commissary and ran marathon distances ‚Äî 26.2 miles ‚Äî on tiny, dusty prison tracks. Santos, who was in prison for trafficking cocaine, ran his first marathon distance with ex-Brocade CEO and white collar criminal Gregory Reyes on a 95-degree day in May 2011 at the federal prison in Taft, Calif. The farthest the two had ever run together was 15 miles. "It was running around a circle for four and a half hours," Santos told Business Insider. The idea of running in circles for hours while wearing crappy shoes is incredible to me, seeing as when I ran my first and possibly last marathon, I did it on a distractingly beautiful route¬†while wearing¬†top-of-the line shoes and eating special electrolyte gummy candy. Michael Santos is an unusually motivated human being. Michael SantosMichael Santos and Gregory Reyes are pictured here on the day of their prison marathon. Like many inmates before the mid- 1990s¬†(when Congress prohibited federal prisons from bodybuilding equipment), Santos lifted weights to stay in shape. After about 10 years of that, though, he started worrying about getting too bulky to wear a suit once he finally got released. He switched to running on prison tracks. (Some tracks were 1/4 mile, and other tracks he ran on were 1/3 mile long.) Santos started running 10-mile distances daily on the prison track and five miles on visiting days. He told himself he was never more than "65 miles away from a visit," he said. Santos sometimes ran as many as 20 miles a day, in silence and without much scenery. He used the time to focus and think about his career goals. In 2010 Santos struck up a friendship with Reyes, a hugely successful businessman who was doing time for back-dating corporate stock options. (The practice of backdating to make stock options more valuable has largely been abandoned, thanks in part to Reyes' high-profile conviction.) Santos motivated Reyes to start running, and pretty soon they were doing 10 miles together. Reyes said he'd like to do a marathon. The prison cardiologist advised them to train for it. Most marathon training programs are three months long and involve gradually increasing your distance and then "tapering" down before the big race day. Santos and Reyes didn't really go that route.¬† One weekend they did 15 miles. The very next weekend they decided to run the full 26.2 miles on the prison track since it was May and they knew it would just get hotter. "We should just bang it out right now," Santos remembers telling Reyes. Santos marked his time using a Timex Ironman watch. Each time he finished a loop, he'd push a button on the watch to mark his time. Santos finished in 4:35. Reyes completed his marathon in about 4:12, Santos remembers. Santos went on to run 52.4 miles on the dusty oval during his stay in prison. He banged out 700 miles his last month of prison, averaging more than 20 miles a day. He's been out of prison since 2012. Faced with the social demands of freedom, Santos has "only" run six marathon distances since his release. He has never run an organized race. For him, marathons were never about getting a trophy or a pin or even getting faster. These days, his marathon times are five hours ‚Äî significantly slower than his first one. "I am out there just to think, and put one foot in front of the other and hit the goals," he said.
REUTERS/Larry DowningChairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke listens to a question about personal finance education while speaking to educators at the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, August 7, 2012. Core personal consumption expenditures, an inflation indicator reported in the U.S. GDP release, stood at only 0.6% in the second quarter, according to the third and final Q2 GDP reading published by the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis this morning. Economists were expecting the report to confirm the BEA's second reading of Q2 core PCE published a month ago, when the agency said it stood at 0.8%. Core PCE of 0.6% marks a sharp drop in inflation from the first quarter, when core PCE stood at 1.4%. The indicator is said to be the Federal Reserve's favorite measure of inflation, and over the past few months, FOMC officials including Ben Bernanke have cited a lack of inflation as a reason to be cautious in tapering back its quantitative easing program. In a speech last Friday, St. Louis Fed president and FOMC voting member James Bullard described what may come to be known as the "Bullard Rule" ó a modification to the Fed's current forward guidance on the path of short-term interest rates to include an inflation floor.
flickr/corrine klugLATEST: The third and final reading of second-quarter GDP growth from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis is out. The economy grew at a 2.5% annualized pace in the second quarter, in line with the BEA's previous Q2 GDP estimate. However, economists were expecting a tick up to 2.6% in the final reading.¬†In Q1, the economy expanded only 1.1% annualized. Personal consumption growth was also unchanged from the BEA's previous reading at 1.8%, and was also expected to tick up to 1.9% in the final reading. The¬†number marks a slowdown from Q1's 2.3% pace of growth. Core PCE fell to 0.6% from the BEA's previous reading of 0.8%. Economists were expecting core PCE to remain unchanged from the last reading 0.8%. In Q1, core PCE was 1.4%. Below is a summary of the data from the release: Real personal consumption expenditures increased 1.8 percent in the second quarter, compared¬†with an increase of 2.3 percent in the first. Durable goods increased 6.2 percent, compared with an¬†increase of 5.8 percent. Nondurable goods increased 1.6 percent, compared with an increase of 2.7¬†percent. Services increased 1.2 percent, compared with an increase of 1.5 percent. Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 4.7 percent in the second quarter, in contrast to a¬†decrease of 4.6 percent in the first. Nonresidential structures increased 17.6 percent, in contrast to a¬†decrease of 25.7 percent. Equipment increased 3.3 percent, compared with an increase of 1.6 percent.¬†Intellectual property products decreased 1.5 percent, in contrast to an increase of 3.7 percent. Real¬†residential fixed investment increased 14.2 percent, compared with an increase of 12.5 percent. Real exports of goods and services increased 8.0 percent in the second quarter, in contrast to a¬†decrease of 1.3 percent in the first. Real imports of goods and services increased 6.9 percent, compared¬†with an increase of 0.6 percent. Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 1.6 percent¬†in the second quarter, compared with a decrease of 8.4 percent in the first. National defense decreased¬†0.6 percent, compared with a decrease of 11.2 percent. Nondefense decreased 3.1 percent, compared¬†with a decrease of 3.6 percent. Real state and local government consumption expenditures and gross¬†investment increased 0.4 percent, in contrast to a decrease of 1.3 percent. The change in real private inventories added 0.41 percentage point to the second-quarter change¬†in real GDP, after adding 0.93 percentage point to the first-quarter change. Private businesses increased¬†inventories $56.6 billion in the second quarter, following increases of $42.2 billion in the first quarter¬†and $7.3 billion in the fourth. Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in private inventories -- increased 2.1¬†percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of 0.2 percent in the first. Click here for the full release ¬ª ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Heads up! We are minutes away from the third and final reading of second-quarter GDP growth from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, due out at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict GDP grew at a 2.6% annualized pace in the second quarter, which is higher than the BEA's second reading put out a month ago of 2.5%.¬† Q2 personal consumption growth is expected to clock in at 1.9%, slightly higher than last month's BEA estimate of 1.8%. Either of those numbers would mark a slowdown from Q1's 2.3% pace of growth. Core personal consumption expenditure, one of the FOMC's favorite measures of inflation, is expected to remain unchanged from last month's estimate at 0.8% in Q2. We will have the full release LIVE at 8 AM ET. Click here to refresh for the latest ¬ª
REUTERS/Mike SegarJob seekers stand in line to meet with prospective employers at a career fair in New York City, October 24, 2012.Weekly jobless claims fell to 305,000 in the week ended September 20 from 309,000 the week before. Economists were expecting 325,000. The number brought the four-week moving average down to 308,000, the lowest level since June 2007. Continuing claims in the week ended September 13 grew to 2.823 million from 2.787 million in the week previous. Economists were expecting continuing claims to come in at 2.818 million. An official at the Labor Department said that California has caught up with its backlog of applications that resulted from a computer system changeover, according to Bloomberg.  There were no "special factors" this time, meaning that the 305K figure is not¬†artificially depressed¬†like last week, according to the agency.
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinSukhoi Su-27 jet fighters release flares as they perform during the "Russia Arms Expo 2013" 9th international exhibition of arms, military equipment and ammunition, in the Urals city of Nizhny Tagil, September 25, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Here's an interesting view of the world's stock markets from Guggenheim's Scott Minerd: A countryís market capitalization as a percent of GDP is a useful indicator in assessing whether an equity market is under- or overvalued. Making direct comparisons between developed markets and emerging markets can be difficult, however, because the latter tend to have less developed stock markets and lower market capitalization to GDP ratios. A more useful indicator is to compare a countryís ratio to its historic levels. Based on current differences from previous 10 year averages, European markets, especially Italy, Spain, and France, appear particularly undervalued and therefore attractive. Additionally, the BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India, China) countries are currently below their averages, suggesting now may be a good buying opportunity. MARKET CAPITALIZATION, % OF GDP: DEVIATION FROM PRIOR 10-YEAR AVERAGE Guggenheim Partners
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonThe Goldman Sachs and Nike corporate logos are displayed on a post above the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, September 11, 2013. In the biggest shake-up of the Dow Jones industrial average in nearly a decade, Goldman Sachs, Visa and Nike will join the storied 30-stock index, with Bank of America, which just two years ago was the largest U.S. bank by assets, one of the names exiting the Dow."The traditional opening of earnings season was scheduled [to be] after Tuesday (10/8) with Alcoa; the new official Dow opening is [Thursday 9/26] with Nike," said Howard Silverblatt, a senior index analyst with S&amp;P. Alcoa used to be the first component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average to announce earnings. But on September 10, it was announced that Nike and Goldman Sachs would be replacing Alcoa and Bank of America in the Dow. As an aluminum producer with global footprint, Alcoa continues to be a bellwether of global economic activity. But Nike is no slouch either. It too is a global player, but it offers insight into personal consumption rather than industrial activity. And it literally has a major footprint in China, the world's second largest economy. Unfortunately, Nike's results are expected to be impacted by some supply issues, a problem Alcoa coincidentally faced in aluminum. "The athletic industry in China continues to make progress in working through excess inventory clearance issues through discounting," writes Citi analyst Kate McShane. "Belle (Nike and Adidas' largest retailer in China) reported a 1H13 beat, noting a relatively stable promotional environment and inventories. Belle‚Äôs increased investments in its clearance e-commerce platform should also benefit Nike." Citi expects Nike to report quarterly earnings of $0.77 per share, which is below the consensus estimate of $0.78. McShane has a Buy-rating on the stock with a $81 price target. FactSetIt's worth noting that the changes to the Dow will impact the earnings growth expectations for the Dow as a whole. From FactSet's John Butters: It is interesting to note that the addition of these new components will actually result in lower expected earnings growth for the DJIA over the next several quarters. Using the ‚Äúold‚Äù constituents (including Alcoa, Bank of America, and Hewlett-Packard), the average estimated earnings growth rate over the next five quarters (Q313 ‚Äì Q314) is 6.9%. Using the ‚Äúnew‚Äù constituents (including Goldman Sachs, NIKE, and Visa), the average estimated earnings growth rate over the next five quarters is 5.0%. For each of these quarters, estimated earnings growth using the ‚Äúnew‚Äù components is expected to be lower than the expected earnings growth using the ‚Äúold‚Äù components. The main reason for the decrease in expected earnings growth under the ‚Äúnew‚Äù components is the removal of Bank of America from the index. As of today, Bank of America is projected to be the largest contributor to earnings growth for the DJIA in four of the next five quarters (with the exception of Q214). Over the next five quarters (Q313 ‚Äì Q314), the projected EPS estimates for Bank of America are $0.20, $0.29, $0.30, $0.34, and $0.35, compared to year-ago EPS numbers of $0.00, $0.03, $0.20, $0.32, and $0.20. "The estimated earnings growth rate for Q3 2013 is 3.4%," said Butters of the S&amp;P 500. "The Financials sector is predicted to report the highest earnings growth for the quarter, while the Health Care sector is predicted to report the lowest earnings growth for the quarter." Nike's earnings will be released after the closing bell on Thursday.
All-cash purchases accounted for 45% of all residential sales in August, according to RealtyTrac's latest U.S. Residential &amp; Foreclosure Sales Report. This is up from 39% in July, and up 30% year-over-year.¬† In metros with a population of 1 million or more, Miami had the highest percent of all-cash sales at 69%, followed by Detroit at 68%, Las Vegas at 66%, Jacksonville, Florida at 65%, and Tampa at 64%. What's more? The share of institutional investors buying 10 properties or more in the last 12 months jumped to 10% of all sales. This is up from a share of 9% in July, and 9% a year ago. "This recovery in home prices and sale volume continues to be driven in large part by cash buyers and institutional investors, as evidenced by the increasing share of sales represented by those two categories in August,‚Äù said Daren Blomquist, vice president at RealtyTrac in a press release. Some argue that its these cash purchases that have driven home sales, are distorting prices, and that this is unsustainable. They are also reportedly shutting out first time homebuyers who are already taking a beating from rising mortgage rates and tighter lending standards. Here's a look at the spike in all cash sales: RealtyTrac And here's a look at the share of institutional investor purchases: RealtyTrac
DUBLIN (AP) ‚Äî Ireland's love affair with pub and pint is sparking national soul-searching as never before because of an unofficial holiday dreamed up by Guinness. Thursday's celebrations of Arthur's Day, honoring the 18th-century founder of Ireland's quintessential drink, feature surprise musical performances in 815 pubs and clubs across Ireland as well as concerts worldwide from Malaysia to Jamaica. Launched in 2009, Guinness says the annual festivities provide a needed tonic for a 7,500-strong Irish pub network struggling to maintain profits in the face of a five-year debt crisis that has ravaged employment and incomes. Many public houses are offering free pints of the dark brown stout at 5:59 p.m. ‚Äî a reference to the founding of Guinness in 1759 ‚Äî followed by the appearance of a band or singer, among them internationally popular acts, many kept secret until that moment. All entertainers are paid by Guinness' British parent, Diageo. "It's really a musical treasure hunt. It's one of my favorite nights of the year," said David Doolan, a 28-year-old software engineer who plans to follow tweeted tipoffs as musical acts turn up in Dublin pubs. He's caught parts of impromptu performances by Tom Jones, Mumford &amp; Sons and Stereophonics in past festivities. But this year, Guinness has been put on the defensive amid surging protests that Arthur's Day is compounding an alcoholic culture that costs Ireland 3.7 billion euros ($5 billion) annually in hung-over workers, a Europe-leading rate of liver disease, late-night vandalism and violence in hospital emergency rooms. "They shouldn't call it Arthur's Day. They should call it Vomit Day," said Aisling Fitzsimons, a 50-year-old manager of a convenience store who says she must hose down the sidewalk outside her business after most weekends to clear away alcohol-fueled sickness. Two performers who definitely aren't performing for Guinness are Irish folk singer Christy Moore and the Celtic rock band The Waterboys. Both have penned anti-Arthur's Day songs that harness an Irish sense of unease of being played for fools by a brewing behemoth. "Arthur's alco-holiday is coming 'round again. He's the patron saint of porter, canonized by the advertising men," Moore, a recovering alcoholic himself, sang Wednesday night at the start of a nationally televised debate on state broadcasters RTE focused on the rights and wrongs of the Guinness promotional machine. The song's punch line predicted that Ireland's emergency rooms would be transformed into "drunk tanks" while "Diageo goes AWOL at closing time." All sides agree Ireland has a deeply ingrained alcohol problem. Government statistics show that Irish households last year spent 7.7 percent of their money, or 6.3 billion euros ($8.5 billion), on alcoholic drinks. That's double what they spent on clothing and more than 2,100 euros ($2,800) per adult, with women increasingly drinking hard liquor as much as men. "Diageo has invented Arthur's Day as a pseudo-national holiday for the purposes of marketing its products, especially to young people, thereby stimulating greater consumption of alcohol," said Alex White, the government minister responsible for policy on alcohol and drugs. Ireland's Cabinet is mulling whether to impose minimum price controls on alcoholic beverages and restrictions on advertising and event sponsorship in a country where Guinness' name adorns everything from sports jerseys to rail bridges. Guinness also brews several other European and American beer brands in Dublin. Guinness says it's keeping an open mind on changing Arthur's Day next year to focus less on pubs and pints, and more on the arts, but insists nobody's being forced to drink when watching musical performances. The Irish corporate relations director of Diageo, Peter O'Brien, said his own sister is a nurse and he understands fully how alcohol abuse strains Ireland's emergency services at night. He said Ireland's international bailout and ongoing austerity drive were reshaping the national character and Guinness needed to keep pace with the shifting national mood. "As we've lived through austerity, and we've had a real change in society, we've started to question our relationship with everything: the (Catholic) church, big business, politicians. And we're questioning our relationship with alcohol," O'Brien said. But he said Guinness, as the country's dominant brewer, still needed to do more to promote the pub as a center of Irish life and tourism. He noted a report published this week by the Drinks Industry Group of Ireland ‚Äî a lobbying group of which he is chairman ‚Äî found that, since Ireland's economy went bust in 2008, Ireland's pubs had reduced in number by nearly 1,000 and employed 17 percent fewer people. Ireland's Royal College of Physicians has appealed for a public boycott of Arthur's Day and says Diageo is contributing to a doubling of deaths by liver disease since the start of the Celtic Tiger economic boom in 1995. "We have a progressively worsening relationship with alcohol in Ireland," said Dr. Stephen Stewart, director of the Liver Disease Center in Dublin's Mater Hospital, where he regularly sees patients in their 30s facing life-threatening liver failures. But some say the critics have picked a conveniently easy target in Guinness ‚Äî when it's really Ireland that needs to look in the mirror. "There's an alco-holiday happening all the time in Ireland," said Paddy Cullivan, a Dublin musician and satirist. "It's called Friday and Saturday night." ___ Online: Arthur's Day events, http://www.guinness.com/en-ie/arthursday/locator.html Alcohol Action Ireland, http://alcoholireland.ie/category/home_news/ Christy Moore singing "Arthur's Day," https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9YvvGYhlgTk Waterboys' "Song for Arthur's Day," https://soundcloud.com/mickpuck/arthurs-day Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
APJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, addresses the International Olympic Committee session during the Tokyo 2020 bid presentation in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Saturday, Sept. 7, 2013.Japan's top government spokesman on Thursday defended a speech by the prime minister in which he compared the career of fictional Wall Street titan-turned-criminal Gordon Gekko with his own country's economic resurgence. Shinzo Abe's address to the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday -- which touched on everything from hot dogs and sushi to baseball and US heavy metal rock band Metallica -- repeatedly mentioned the anti-hero of the 1987 film "Wall Street". "Today, I have come to tell you that Japan will once again be a country where there is money to be made, and that just as Gordon Gekko made a comeback in the financial world... so too can we now say that 'Japan is Back'," Abe said. The Oliver Stone-directed film portrays Gekko as a corporate raider who is ultimately sent to prison on insider trading charges and other securities violations. His memorable line that "greed...is good" became a popular symbol of 1980s excess. Actor Michael Douglas, whose performance netted him an Academy Award, reprised the role in the 2010 sequel "Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps" which chronicles Gekko's release from prison and subsequent redemption. "What the prime minister wanted to say the most was that 'Japan is Back'. And in the sequel, Gordon Gekko was redeemed, wasn't he?" top government spokesman Yoshihide Suga told reporters. Suga was responding to questions about why Japan's leader had cited a cinematic convicted criminal as an inspiration for a policy blitz aimed at reviving the country's long-limp economy. Abe noted that the original film a quarter-century ago portrayed Japan as an economic powerhouse, while in the sequel "the investors that appear are Chinese -- Japan is conspicuous only in its absence", reflecting its two-decade slide. The premier's speech, on the eve of his appearance at the UN General Assembly, pointed to hopes that sushi carts would one day be lined up alongside New York City's famous hot dog vendors -- apparently confirming Japan's revival. New York Yankees star Ichiro Suzuki and Japan's super-efficient bullet trains also got a mention in a speech that finished with a reference to the Metallica song "Enter Sandman". † Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
REUTERS/Toby Melville(Reuters) - Barclays Plc &lt;BARC.L&gt; will stop offering wealth management services in about 130 countries by 2016 and cut jobs in the unit as part of an effort to rein in costs and boost profit. "This is part of our new strategy, focusing on reducing complexity and competing where we can win," a Barclays spokesman said. Barclays Wealth employs about 8,000 staff, and the spokesman said there is unlikely to be a significant change to that number although some jobs will go as part of new structure and technology. Barclays announced plans in April to restructure its wealth business so it works more closely with retail and corporate banking divisions and rolled out its new strategy this week after appointing Peter Horrell as chief executive of its wealth and investment management unit on Monday. Horrell had held the position on an interim basis since May, when his predecessor Tom Kalaris was ousted. Profitability at Barclays' wealth business continues to lag rivals and the targets of CEO Antony Jenkins. The division posted a return on equity of just 2.5 percent in the first half of this year. The plan will see the Wealth unit focus on 70 markets, which it estimates covers 86 percent of the global wealth market, and leave countries where it lacks scale or which are unprofitable. Under the plan the bank will stop full-service wealth management for thousands of customers with between 100,000 and 500,000 pounds to invest. They will be served by a "lighter touch" new segment called "Private Clients". Other banks are also restructuring in wealth management and Credit Suisse said this week it will pull back from some countries. Barclays Wealth, which has about 200 billion pounds ($321.36 billion) of assets under management, aims to cut the number of its "booking centers", which enable clients to trade and book assets in particular jurisdictions, to about a dozen from 17. (Reporting by Abhirup Roy in Bangalore and Steve Slater in London; Editing by David Cowell)

This is a pretty interesting perspective from one of Wall Street‚Äôs biggest bears ‚Äì what if the market is in the late stages of a bubble?¬† In other words, what if the wall of worry continues to fuel the most hated bull market in decades to levels that become truly absurd?¬†¬† John Hussman discusses the logic: ‚ÄúMy impression is this. Based on numerous past speculative episodes in the financial markets, we know that financial bubbles have often proceeded in an oscillating pattern featuring increasingly frequent cycles of advance, punctuated by gradually shallower declines reflecting an accelerating eagerness to buy dips. This can produce what Didier Sornette has called ‚Äúlog-periodic‚Äù oscillations (see Increasingly Immediate Impulses to Buy the Dip). Given the negative return/risk estimates we observed in April and early-May, I believed that this series of oscillations was ending several months ago. In order to preserve a log-periodic pattern, further oscillations needed to exhibit an even faster alternation between steeply-sloped advances and shallow declines. Yet despite the strongly negative return/risk estimates we already had in April and May, this is unfortunately what has unfolded. With the Fed‚Äôs decision last week, we can‚Äôt rule out one particularly extreme version of a log-periodic bubble that is consistent with price fluctuations to date. That version is pictured below, and would comprise an advance above 1800 in the S&amp;P 500 over a period of about 6 weeks. Again, this is emphatically not a forecast, but the conditions for a final wave of speculation may have been created by the Fed‚Äôs decision last week, and it leaves us unable to rule out this admittedly hypothetical possibility ‚Äì particularly in the context of what has been a classic Sornette-type bubble to-date.‚Äú John Hussman What‚Äôs an investor to do?¬†¬† In the case of Hussman he‚Äôs bought out of the money call options: ‚ÄúMy concern is that investors may draw on this decision as evidence that the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) has placed some sort of ‚Äúsafety net‚Äù below the market, and that the surprising extension of its current policies could spark a short-term speculative ‚Äúblowoff.‚Äù Given the relatively depressed level of implied volatility (which affects the cost of index option premiums), combined with some potential for the Fed decision to provoke a steep, if short-lived speculative response, we added a very small position in out-of-the-money index call options in Strategic Growth Fund late last week. This position serves mainly as a low cost ‚Äúcontingent‚Äù stance that may reduce the impact of our hedging in the event that the major indices advance by more than a few percent in the coming weeks.‚Äù Maybe he‚Äôs right.¬† Maybe the path of least resistance for the market at this point is the one that almost nobody really expects.¬† That is, what if the raging bull turns into a full blown jailbreak?
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets are down slightly across Europe. Britain's FTSE 100 is flat. France's CAC 40 is down 0.3%. Germany's DAX is down 0.2%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.1%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 1.0%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei gained 1.2% while Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 0.3%. All of this comes after five straight days of selling in the U.S. stock market. Later this morning, the Department of Labor will publish its latest stats on initial unemployment claims. Economists expect the weekly number to climb to 325,000 from 309,000 a week ago.
