 We are told they don't ring a bell when bull or bear markets start. That may be true, but it does seem that there are similar signs as we approach turning points. This week in my reading I have been struck by a number of signs that suggest that, if we haven't reached a top in the latest bull market cycle, at least a pause may be in order. Let's review a few of them. The first comes from Charles Gave, who notes that margin debt is now back to extremes.  I started in the fascinating business of trying to understand why markets go up and down in February 1971. The old money manager in the French bank which had hired me straightaway said: "Charles, you will never get rich in this business using other people's money. Do NOT leverage your positions. Leverage might be all right for fellows who deal in real estate, but for those in stock markets, it only brings misery."  Being young and smart (or so I thought), I assumed this advice could not conceivably apply to me. A few margin calls later, accompanied by quite a string of sleepless nights, and I came to realize that the old gentleman had a point.  Now that I am quite old myself and certainly not as smart as I thought I was in 1971, I find myself tracking the moves of the poor souls who believe they can leverage profitably. Then I do the opposite. This is why Charles the 70-year-old is watching what Charles the 30-year-old is doing—to do the reverse. Have a look at the graph. Mauldin  The red line at the top is New York Stock Exchange margin debt as a multiple of US GDP per capita, the black line on the bottom pane is a ratio between US stocks and (government) bonds. It seems that the fellows using other people's money to get rich have an uncanny ability to leverage up when shares become overvalued vs. bonds. They also seem to get most enthusiastic just before a recession, usually after a prolonged outperformance of equities against bonds.  They leverage in order to participate as much as possible in what looks like a free ride, with no downside risk. There are always a number of good reasons why the stock market cannot change direction. Take your pick: "technology has created a new type of economy," or "house prices never go down," or "we have recently discovered an infinite source of wealth called QE." These reasons can be added to a long roster of other excuses such as, "I can get insurance against the next market decline" (1987) or "the Fed will never, ever allow for positive real rates to appear" (1979) or "oil prices cannot quadruple" (1974).  The rise in the stock market this past year has not been because of fundamentals. Earnings in the nonfinancial sector have been flat. Mark Gongloff writes on the HuffPost site: Bloomberg figures that bank earnings rose 27% in the second quarter, which was the only thing keeping the S&amp;P 500 from reporting a net drop in profits for the quarter. With the banks, S&amp;P 500 profits were up 3.3% in the quarter, Bloomberg estimates. Without them, S&amp;P 500 profits would have been down 1.2%. Lousy profits have not kept the S&amp;P 500 from gaining nearly 19 percent so far this year. But even that performance trails the financial sector, which is up 26 percent this year. The banks topped the broader market last year, too, doubling the broader market's gain. And banks have managed all this despite never-ending scandals, onerous regulations and the scorn of an angry nation. The Wall Street Journal suggests that non-financial companies might have finally reached the limit of how much profit they can squeeze out of a dour economy by laying off workers and cutting costs. Banks, on the other hand, have the useful ability to skim rent from even the lamest economy. They're proving it now and finding profits in innovative ways, like moving aluminum around in warehouses to create a sense of scarcity and drive up prices." (Huffington Post)  This lack of profits is showing up in the economy. Nominal GDP growth over the past year was the slowest ever recorded outside of a recession, as the following chart from the London Telegraph demonstrates. Mauldin And because the rise in the stock market has not been accompanied by an increase in earnings, price-to-earnings ratios have risen back to levels that suggest the market is getting closer to stalling out. I post the following tables from the Wall Street Journal. While the Dow and the S&amp;P 500 are not at nosebleed levels, they are certainly pricey. The Russell 2000 and the NASDAQ, on the other hand, are seriously overpriced in terms of earnings. Mauldin  What I find most fascinating in the table is the estimate from Birinyi Associates of the forward 12-month earnings of the Russell 2000. On a trailing 12-month basis, the P/E ratio is nearly 48. However, Birinyi estimates that earnings are going to grow so much in the next 12 months that the forward P/E ratio will be merely 19. Yes, merely. They come up with that number by shifting from as-reported earnings for the previous 12 months to operating earnings for the next 12 months. I've written letters in the past demonstrating that "operating earnings" should be characterized as earnings before interest and hype. Call me a skeptic, but I just don't see any way you can publish a number like that with a straight face. Is always instructive to pay attention to what Jeremy Grantham at GMO thinks about the prospects for future returns. Grantham manages over $100 billion and is an intellectual force in the investment community. Here are his recent expected returns for various asset classes relative to their valuations. They do not bode well for pension funds that are projecting 7 to 8% compound returns for the next seven years. This problem is magnified in public employee pension programs, some of which are already massively underfunded. Mauldin Finally, let's look at two charts that my good friend John Hussman has posted in the past few weeks. John is arguing that stocks are now overvalued, overbought, and overbullish. Mauldin His second chart looks at two measures of valuation for the S&amp;P 500 and compares them to the price level. One measure is a function of revenues, and the other is the smoothed Shiller earnings, which is an average of inflation-adjusted earnings from the previous 10 years. Note that the stock market is not at the bubble levels of 2000 in terms of valuation, but it is certainly getting close to 2006-07 levels. Mauldin This is not to say the stock market can't continue to go up from here. The belief that one should not fight the Fed has become the dominant paradigm for the market. The fingerprints of QE3 are all over the recent rise in the stock market. As Didier Sornette put it, writing about central bank responses to the crises of the past few decades, "Each excess was felt to be 'solved' by measures that in fact fueled following excesses; each crash was fought by an accommodative monetary policy, sowing the seeds for new bubbles and future crashes." How will it all end? Faith in central banks today is equivalent to faith in the word dot-com in 1999 or faith in the eternal rise of housing prices in 2006. With the support of a powerful narrative—that central banks can support asset prices and effectively backstop financial crises (eliminating tail risk)—sentiment is driving the markets higher in the face of cyclically improving but historically weak and unstable fundamentals (plagued by debt deleveraging and aging demographics). Ultimately, the stability of the system depends on central banks' credibility, markets'sentiment, and policy responsiveness to prevent minor drawdowns from becoming full-blown crashes. My friend Mohamed El-Erian has written extensively on the importance of the central bank "brand" and warned of the danger of a broken narrative. Markets tend to overshoot in both directions and will most likely fall even farther than fundamentals warrant when and if central banks lose control of popular sentiment. It is not only the credibility of sovereign nations burdened with debt that can reach a Bang! moment. The credibility of and faith in central banks is just as fragile. Today we see humorous images of dollar bills with Ben Bernanke's face on them, with the words "In Ben We Trust." Unfortunately there is truth in that jest. Whether it is Mark Carney at the BOE or Mario Draghi at the ECB or the future chairperson of the Fed, central bankers are in the hot seat when it comes to global stability. The world no longer worries first and foremost about the products corporations make or the services they perform. Rather, it is focused on the amount of easy money the central banks can dish out. What happens when that amount is no longer enough and market forces turn? With central banks already in a hyper-easing mode, what can they do then, in the face of the next real crisis, to convince the markets that they have things under control? And there are any number of potential trigger points for the next crisis. One that comes to mind is a political shock such as a southern European country's refusing to submit to further austerity (if Italy or will Spain is forced into early elections, that could do it) or a change in Germany's tune. What if the ECB actually has to follow through on its commitment to use OMT (outright monetary transactions) to buy unlimited amounts of short-term Italian, Spanish, and/or French bonds. Draghi simply cannot follow through without expanding the ECB's balance sheet, and it is not crazy to think that the German Constitutional Court could respond by limiting the size of OMT, as it did with EFSF. That kind of blow would mea n game over for Draghi's sentiment-supporting bluff. If the narrative of the power of central banks changes, then it is a whole new ballgame for investors. Fundamentals will once again rule. What a concept. You might want to consider raising a little cash in your portfolio or buying some volatility insurance. Just a thought… I am extremely pleased to be able to announce the world premiere of the extraordinary new documentary on the Federal Reserve, called Money for Nothing. The screening will be in Dallas on Friday, September 6, at 7 PM at AMC NorthPark 15. The movie will then begin to open in various cities around the country the following week, starting with New York and Washington, DC. I was privileged to see the full film last week in Maine with many of my economist friends, and everyone was impressed. This is a movie that I hope everyone in the United States will watch so they can understand the history behind the Federal Reserve and what is happening now. Producer Jim Bruce was able to interview dozens of luminaries from both inside and outside the Federal Reserve system, including Paul Volcker, Janet Yellen, numerous regional presidents, and former Federal Reserve members. You can see a trailer by c licking here and learn when the movie is coming to a city near you, or you can arrange for it to do so, by going to www.MoneyForNothingTheMovie.org. I hope you can join me at the world premiere in Dallas. It will be a special evening. On Tuesday, September 10, in Chicago, I will be joining my longtime friend and partner Steve Blumenthal to present my most recent thoughts on the economy, the Fed, and the direction of interest rates and their impact on the economy and equity markets at the Trinity Financial Advisors Investor Forum, hosted by John Wimbiscus. The Forum will be held at 6:30 PM at the Gleacher Center at the University of Chicago, located at 450 North Cityfront Plaza Drive, Chicago, IL 60611. Please contact Linda Cianci at linda@cmgwealth.com or call 610-989-9090 x140 to reserve a seat. I hope to see you there. I will be traveling from there to Bismarck, North Dakota, to delve deeper into the Bakken shale oil boom and to speak for BNC Bank on September 12. My great friend Dr. Lacy Hunt will also be presenting. If you are in the area, you should plan to attend. Then I will be in Denver with my partners at Altegris Investments on September 19 for a presentation to clients and prospects before flying to Toronto to be with my good friend Louis Gave for a morning seminar on September 23. Please note that last week I said that seminar was in August, so I created some unnecessary confusion. If you would like to attend, you can register at http://gavekal.com/seminar.cfm or contact Chris Lightbound with any questions. From Toronto I will fly on to New York City for a few days of media and meetings. While that schedule may seem busy, it involves only about 10 nights away fro m home for the month, which is less than half of what I've been doing for the last year. I guess it's all relative. After a long day of travel from Montana, I'm back at my apartment in Dallas and finishing the letter. It has been a very relaxing week working from the deck of my friend Darrell Cain's summer home overlooking Flathead Lake. It is a beautiful part of the world, and I was amazed at how relatively little boat traffic there was on the lake. But then, Flathead Lake is not a hop, skip, and jump from a major population center. You have to really want to get there in order to comprehend the beauty. Darrell has been trying to get me to come up for years, and I now understand why he spends two summer months a year in Montana. Steve Cucchiaro of Windhaven (who now manages about $17 billion at Schwab) joined us for three days and nights. We spent a great deal of time looking at nonlinear dynamic-systems analysis of the markets, which may not be your usual conversation on a summer evening, but it is one that I found fascinating. The world has become exceedingly complex: standard, backward-looking correlation analysis simply doesn't cut it anymore. It is time to hit the send button. I'll be home for two weeks and trying to catch up on a hundred details, as well as to get into the gym and drop a few pounds. And I get to catch up with my kids and grandkids, too. Have a great week and enjoy the final month of summer. Your ready to be home for a while analyst,  John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com Copyright 2013 John Mauldin. All Rights Reserved.
Daniel Schwen, Wikimedia Commons The NYT's Adam Nagourney has a great story about the comeback of California, and its governor, Jerry Brown, who started his second stint as governor of the state in 2010, when it was famously the poster child for public fiscal collapse. The state’s budget problems are largely resolved, at least for the short term. Mr. Brown is the dominant figure in Sacramento, strengthened by overwhelming Democratic control of the Legislature and the decline of the Republican Party. He has pushed through major initiatives on education financing and prison reorganization. Even Republicans say his re-election next year seems considerably more than likely. “Some people were ridiculing California, and some were calling it a failed state,” Mr. Brown, a Democrat, said in an interview. “The unemployment came down from 12.2 to 8.5. Real estate is rebounding. There’s a lot of confidence out there. That’s what happened.” There are a lot of factors here. Our Rob Wile went through several of them back in January: The real estate economy has had its natural cyclical rebound, the tech sector has continued to boom, and the Democrats have managed to get a supermajority in Sacramento, which has made getting things done a lot easier than in other states (or certainly in Washington). But the bottom line is that Californians should be really psyched about how their state has recovered, as the state was really seen as a basket case not long ago. Mitt Romney famously compared California to Greece during the 2012 campaign. KQED Major bond investors were talking about the danger of California debt. Bloomberg Even some well-known business websites were writing eulogies for the state (whoops!). Business Insider So take a bow California. You've made a stirring comeback and made the rest of the world look like idiots.
How much work does the average American do each year compared to workers elsewhere in the world? The economics website FRED just added a bunch of new economic data which makes this question very easy to examine. As you can see, the average full-time American employee works right around 1,700 hours per year. FRED The first question you might have is: How does this compare to France, which famously has shorter work weeks, and tons of vacation time? Good question. Turns out the French used to work way more than the Americans, but then the French really cut back, and now work way less. So the clichés about how much the French work are true. FRED Now what about the famously hard-working Germans. Turns out, they basically went the French route. Actually, these days, the Germans (green line) work even fewer hours per year than the French do! Like the French, they used to work more hours than the Americans, but then jumped on the vacation bandwagon. FRED So the U.S. works the most, right? Ha! Let's add in Singapore. It's not even close. As you can see on the top line, Singapore is crushing the U.S. in annual hours worked. FRED Toss in Korea and Hong Kong, and you can see, all of the East Asian economies crush the U.S. in hours worked per year. FRED So if you're in the U.S., thinking you'd like to have it more like the Europeans do, just appreciate the fact that some places work MANY more hours per year.
Why has the US recovery since the financial crisis been so horrendously slow? Here's one really simple answer: An extraordinary period of austerity. Check out this chart from Deutsche Bank Chief Economist Joe LaVorgna: Deutsche Bank For four years since the end of the recession, government spending has been a net drag on GDP (with the exception of one quarter last year), whereas in most recessions, government spending is net positive for GDP throughout. Most of this has been centered on state and local bloodletting, though this year the Federal Government joined the austerity parade with the sequester. There's good news: The title of Deutsche Bank's report is: "The public sector is poised to join the party." This drag is about to end: The government sector has been a significant drag on economic activity over the past several years. Federal as well as state and local spending have fallen sharply. However, this downtrend may reverse in the coming quarters because of improving government finances. This would allow for faster spending and consequently stronger economic activity as measured by GDP. Let's hope.
Wikimedia CommonsGiant African land snailThe U.S. economy was growing at a 1.7% rate in Q2, which was much stronger than the 1.0% pace estimated by economists. It was also an acceleration from the  1.1% pace we saw in Q1. Americans are hoping that the economy will soon return to its long-term average growth rate of around 3.5%. Unfortunately, more and more experts are convinced those days are gone. Even the optimists believe they are a long way away. JP Morgan economist Michael Feroli hit this issue hard in painful detail this week. "As recently as the late 1990s, potential growth in the U.S. was estimated to be around 3.5%; by our estimates that figure has recently fallen by half, to 1.75%," said Feroli. In a lengthy research note, he noted that 1) the growth of America's workforce is slowing and 2) the productivity levels of that population are deteriorating. Regarding that first point, it has been well-telegraphed via the labor force participation rate that the working-age population has been declining. But an underappreciated negative force has been the trends in migration. "A key influence here has been an estimated slowdown in net migration, both legal and illegal," said Feroli. "Reduced net migration reflects heightened security concerns since the September 11 attacks, and the effect of soft labor markets." Regarding the latter point of productivity, Feroli attributes the post-2005 slowdown largely to declines in technological innovation. The decline of innovation is central to the thesis of Robert Gordon, a Northwestern University economist whose work has been making the rounds on Wall Street in recent months. NorthwesternNorthwestern's Robert GordonHere's what Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services director of NYSE floor operations said in a note earlier this week: ...Some folks point to a dysfunctional Washington.  Others see structural changes and challenges in key areas like employment.  A few shrug and say it is just history reasserting itself.  Most of the latter cite a year old paper by Professional Robert J. Gordon of Northwestern University.  Professor Gordon maintains that, for much of human history, economic growth and improvement has been incrementally slow – somewhere in the range of GDP per capita, growing at about 0.2% per year.  His work indicates we may revert to 0.5% growth for many decades to come. Here is how Professor Gordon begins his thesis in the abstract to his paper ("Is U.S. Economic Growth Over? Faltering Innovation Confronts The Six Headwinds" {August 2012}) This paper raises basic questions about the process of economic growth. It questions the assumption, nearly universal since Solow’s seminal contributions of the 1950s, that economic growth is a continuous process that will persist forever. There was virtually no growth before 1750, and thus there is no guarantee that growth will continue indefinitely. Rather, the paper suggests that the rapid progress made over the past 250 years could well turn out to be a unique episode in human history. The paper is only about the United States and views the future from 2007 while pretending that the financial crisis did not happen. Its point of departure is growth in per-capita real GDP in the frontier country since 1300, the U.K. until 1906 and the U.S. afterwards. Growth in this frontier gradually accelerated after 1750, reached a peak in the middle of the 20th century, and has been slowing down since. The paper is about “how much further could the frontier growth rate decline?” The analysis links periods of slow and rapid growth to the timing of the three industrial revolutions (IR’s), that is, IR #1 (steam, railroads) from 1750 to 1830; IR #2 (electricity, internal combustion engine, running water, indoor toilets, communications, entertainment, chemicals, petroleum) from 1870 to 1900; and IR #3 (computers, the web, mobile phones) from 1960 to present. It provides evidence that IR #2 was more important than the others and was largely responsible for 80 years of relatively rapid productivity growth between 1890 and 1972. Once the spin-off inventions from IR #2 (airplanes, air conditioning, interstate highways) had run their course, productivity growth during 1972-96 was much slower than before. In contrast, IR #3 created only a short-lived growth revival between 1996 and 2004. Many of the original and spin-off inventions of IR #2 could happen only once – urbanization, transportation speed, the freedom of females from the drudgery of carrying tons of water per year, and the role of central heating and air conditioning in achieving a year-round constant temperature. Charlie RoseGMO's Jeremy GranthamGordon's work is cited widely by GMO's Jeremy Grantham, who has argued that the U.S. faces near-zero growth for decades. In a follow-up note on Friday, Cashin showed that the slow-growth thesis was going more mainstream: ...One friend sent along an article from New York Magazine (nymag.com) that had this very downbeat paragraph: Gordon has two predictions to offer, the first of which is about the near future. For at least the next fifteen years or so, Gordon argues, our economy will grow at less than half the rate it has averaged since the late-nineteenth century because of a set of structural headwinds that Gordon believes will be even more severe than most other economists do: the aging of the American population; the stagnation in educational achievement; the fiscal tightening to fix our public and private debt; the costs of health care and energy; the pressures of globalization and growing inequality. Over the past year, some other economists who once agreed with Gordon — most prominently Tyler Cowen of George Mason University — have taken note of the recent discoveries of abundant natural-gas reserves in the United States, and of the tentative deflation of health-care costs, and softened their pessimism. But to Gordon these are small corrections that leave the basic story unchanged. He believes we can no longer expect to double our standard of living in one generation; it will now take at least two. The common expectations that your children will attend college even if you haven’t, in other words, or will have twice as rich a life, in this view no longer look realistic. Some of these hopes are already outdated: The generation of Americans now in their twenties is the first to not be significantly better educated than their parents. If Gordon is right, then for all but the wealthiest one percent of Americans, the rate of improvement in the standard of living — year over year, and generation after generation — will be no faster than it was during the dark ages. The article also interviewed several economists who differ with or contest Gordon's thesis.  Interestingly, none seems to foresee an unalloyed Utopian future.  (E.g. one says that the kind of work done by 65% of us could be done by robots.  Turn the lights down, HAL.) All of this is pretty gloomy. On the bright side, it's worth noting that some of the most important productivity-increasing innovations in history came out of nowhere. Think about the internet.
Bad news: owing mostly to demographics trends and slowing technological innovation, America may be facing a long road of low growth ahead. In a new report, JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli explains why the country's future isn't what it used to be by demonstrating that potential GDP growth – a proxy for the long-run trend growth rate – in the United States has fallen below 2%. "As recently as the late 1990s, potential growth in the U.S. was estimated to be around 3.5%; by our estimates that figure has recently fallen by half, to 1.75%," says Feroli. Potential growth is a function of two variables: the growth of America's workforce, and growth in that group's productivity levels. BLS, JPMorganUnfortunately, the first variable – labor force growth – has slowed dramatically in the last decade. "According to the February 2013 CBO estimates, for example, potential growth of the labor supply has been irregularly slowing from 2.5% annual growth from 1974-1981 to only 0.8% from 2002-12 and is projected to slow further to only 0.6% over the next five years," says Feroli. "The slowdown in potential labor force growth has been accompanied by a similar slowdown in actual labor supply." A lot of that decline has to do with population growth. The JPMorgan report points out that at current levels under 1% per year, working-age population growth is at multi-decade lows. Dept. of Homeland Security, JPMorganPart of that decline in working-age population growth, in turn, has to do with a big slowdown in immigration to the United States (The other component of the decline in working-age population growth is demographics-driven, as the "baby boomer" cohort ages and exits the workforce.) "A key influence here has been an estimated slowdown in net migration, both legal and illegal," says Feroli. "Reduced net migration reflects heightened security concerns since the September 11 attacks, and the effect of soft labor markets." Immigration could pick up again when labor markets firm as the economy recovers and opportunities once again present themselves to those from other countries who wish to come make a living in the United States. Given the massive increase in resources dedicated to border patrol over the last decade, however, the JPMorgan report treats this as an unlikely possibility. "Since 1989 real, inflation-adjusted spending on border patrol increased 730%; since 2002 the number of border patrol personnel has more than doubled; and between 2005 and 2010 the number of miles of fenced southwestern border has quadrupled," says Feroli. "As we see little political appetite for relaxing enforcement of border security, we believe even with a more robust economy we are unlikely to see a return to the levels of illegal immigration that prevailed in the first half of the last decade." So, while working-age population growth stood at 0.92% in 2012, the Census Bureau estimates that average growth over the next five years will fall further to 0.74%, and by 2050 (based on best estimates for birth rates, death rates, and net migration), 0.51%. JPMorgan, CBO, SSA, BLSThe other major input to the rate of growth of the American workforce – aside from working-age population growth – is changes in the labor force participation rate. After all, America's labor supply can be thought of as the size of the working-age population multiplied by the percentage of those participating in the labor force. So, changes in the labor force participation rate will feed directly into growth in the size of the workforce. Here, again, demographics are at play. The labor force participation rate is in secular decline, and as the "baby boomers" retire and exit the workforce, there will be downward pressure on the participation rate. There is a lot of debate about whether the labor force participation rate will rebound or continue to decline. "One simple method of forecasting labor force participation for purposes of estimating potential growth is simply to look at how the expected change in the demographic composition of the population (by age and gender) would affect participation rates holding everything else constant," says Feroli. "This exercise shows that the participation rate would be expected to decline gradually, reducing labor supply growth by about 0.25% per year over the next five years." The growth rate of the workforce is equal to the growth rate of the working-age population plus the change in the labor force participation rate. So, using the forecasts above, labor supply growth over the next five years is projected to be (0.74% – 0.25% = 0.5%). "The CBO went through similar calculations in updating its estimate of potential growth last February and, not surprisingly, came up with an identical figure, with potential [labor force] growth slowing slightly to 0.5% per year in 2018-23," says Feroli. "This compares with an estimate of average potential labor force growth from 1950-2012 of 1.5% per year. " Now, we have an estimate for the first component of potential GDP growth. The second component of potential GDP growth is growth in labor productivity. JPMorgan, BLSLike labor force growth, labor productivity growth has also slowed sharply in recent years. Since 2010, it's increased at an annual rate of only 0.7%. Since 1945, labor productivity growth has averaged 2.25% a year, and between 1995 and 2005, 2.9%. The JPMorgan report attributes the post-2005 slowdown in labor productivity growth largely to declines in technological innovation. "The slowing in the pace of high-tech capital spending—which began before the last downturn and has persisted even as other types of capital spending have rebounded—is the principal reason we look for subdued productivity growth," says Feroli. Why is capital spending on IT equipment slowing? Prices of computers and software – adjusted for quality – are declining at the slowest rate in years. This implies that innovation in these sectors isn't as great as it used to be. Feroli offers an explanation of why this is the case: The pace of technological advance embodied in new equipment should be inversely related to the change in the price of this equipment. In other words, more rapid increases in the capability of computing equipment should imply more rapid declines in the price of a computer with a given, fixed capability.  It is important to keep in mind that the prices we are focusing on are quality-adjusted, or constant-quality, prices. The example most often given for what this means is a standard desktop computer. An average computer may retail for around $1,000 now, roughly similar to its sale price 10 or 15 years ago. However, the power of that computer has increased dramatically. While it may be difficult or impossible to buy a new computer today of the quality available 10 or 15 years ago, presumably the price would have declined sharply. In the 1990s, when capital spending on IT equipment was booming, the productivity of American workers was increasing. After all, workers were bestowed with increasing access to computing equipment, enabling them to do their jobs more efficiently. "Real spending on high-tech equipment and software has historically grown much more rapidly than overall real GDP during expansions, but the gap between the two has narrowed considerably in the past few years," says Feroli. "In the year ended 2Q13, real spending was up 5.9%. In the year ended 4Q07, as the economy was falling into recession, growth was 11.1%. And, of course, spending growth had been much stronger still through most of the 1990s." So, now that IT spending has slowed dramatically – perhaps because the computing industry hasn't been innovating like it did in the past – productivity growth is slowing as well. The JPMorgan report points to one other major factor aside from slowing IT spending growth that is weighing on productivity growth: spending on research and development (R&amp;D), both in the private and public sectors. "Spending on private research and development is the part of investment in intellectual property products most closely linked to productivity growth, and the trend in private spending on research and development has also slowed, from an average 4.7% per year in the 20 years through 4Q00 to 2.8% per year over the past 10 years and 2.4% over the past year," says Feroli. "The slowing in R&amp;D spending seen in recent years is one reason why productivity growth has been slow, and will continue to be slow. By our estimate, trend productivity growth in the nonfarm business sector could be around 1.5%." Putting together the slowdown in productivity growth and the slowdown in the growth of the workforce brings us to the ultimate conclusion. "There is reason to think labor productivity in the nonfarm business sector will be only about 1.5% per year and labor productivity in the overall economy including government only about 1.25%. This implies that potential growth – growth of labor supply plus labor productivity – is less than 1.75%."
REUTERS/Yorgos KarahalisPeople stand around flowers at the site where 19-year-old Greek student Thanassis Kanaoutis died after an argument with a bus ticket inspector in the middle-class Peristeri suburb, near Athens, August 16, 2013. ATHENS (Reuters) - A 19-year-old Greek student who died after an argument with a bus ticket inspector has come to symbolize the plight of a population ground down by worsening poverty and unemployment. Thanassis Kanaoutis suffered a fatal head injury when he fell or jumped from a moving bus as it passed through a middle-class neighborhood of Athens late on Tuesday. Prosecutors have not yet established how Kanaoutis died. Witnesses said they saw him brawl with the ticket inspector. The bus company said he pulled the emergency brake to jump out, but the family's lawyer said Kanaoutis might have been pushed during the altercation. The incident quickly touched a nerve in Greece, where the government is using increasingly tough methods to collect revenue under pressure from its international lenders to fix its finances. About 300 people, among them anti-bailout groups, marched to the cemetery where Kanaoutis's funeral was held on Friday evening. After the service, dozens of youths pelted riot police with stones near the spot where he died. Protesters smashed the windows of a bus in the area and scrawled "Murderers" in red paint on the windshield. "This is the last kid who gets buried - from now on their blood will flow," a teenage boy was heard shouting after the service. The shooting of a 15-year-old by police in 2008 triggered violent rioting across Greece for weeks. The main opposition party and several media commentators were quick to blame the government's austerity policies for his death. "Kanaoutis died because he didn't have a ticket worth 1.20 euros ($1.59)," said the main opposition Syriza party in a statement. "This highlights in the most tragic way the desperate situation into which bailout policies have plunged large parts of Greek society," Syriza added. It demanded free public transport for the unemployed, low-income pensioners and students. "International loan-sharks are pushing Greece towards cannibalism," read a headline on the front page of anti-bailout leftist newspaper Eleftherotypia. Public transport companies intensified ticket controls this year as part of measures to plug their deficits. Deputy Transport Minister Michalis Papadopoulos said he was reviewing the way the controls are carried out. Bloggers and media have pointed to pay incentives given to controllers, who make a commission of about half the 72-euro fine levied on ticket dodgers. "Down with the headhunters," read graffiti daubed on a subway station in Athens. A bus route was suspended briefly on Wednesday after angry youths stopped a bus to talk to the driver. Thirteen protesters were arrested in the northern city of Thessaloniki on Wednesday for spraying graffiti in support of Kanaoutis. (Additional reporting by Tatiana Fragou; editing by Andrew Roche)
