Mossberg and Swisher currently run the AllThingsD website, which is owned by Dow Jones &amp; Co, the News Corp unit that also publishes¬†The Wall Street Journal. The website was launched in 2007 as an extension of the D: All Things Digital technology industry conference and quickly became an authoritative source of industry news and gadget reviews. As part of the expected deal,¬†NBCUniversal's television networks are expected to obtain access to content from Mossberg and Swisher's new company, the newspaper said. (http://link.reuters.com/suk84v) NBCUniversal, a unit of¬†Comcast Corp, owns the NBC network and CNBC and MSNBC. Mossberg and Swisher have said they plan to start a company with a new name next year. They have held talks with several media companies, including Hearst Corp,¬†the Wall Street Journal¬†reported. However, Hearst is no longer in talks, according to people familiar with the matter, the Journal said. In September, the journalists and Dow Jones said they would not renew their partnership when their contract expires at the end of the year. (Reporting By Maria Ajit Thomas in Bangalore)
Spotify†just raised a lot of money ó $250 million to be more precise, according to a†Wall Street Journal†report citing multiple anonymous sources familiar with the matter. That means itís nearly doubled the total amount of funding the company has raised prior to the new round to a whopping $533 million. Weíre reaching out to Spotify for confirmation about the new funding, and will update this post with any new information. Now, you may be wondering if arguably the most popular streaming music service in the world really needs another quarter billion dollars. Well, the answer isnít entirely clear, but there are a few rational things Spotify may need more capital for. One of the two largest expenditures for Spotify is likely expanding its music service into more international markets. Spotify is currently available in 28 markets across the globe, with the latest expansions happening in†Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, and Mexico. The WSJ is reporting that the company would like to move into the Japanese market as well as some others in the near future. The other big expenditure that would justify Spotify raising the new round would be to help pay for the hefty music licensing fees. For perspective, the company spent†70 percent of its total revenue†in 2012 being spent on content. Thatís to be expected considering that Spotify currently has 24 million active monthly listeners and†6 million paying subscribers. The larger question here is if Spotify is depending on the new funding to help pay off these licensing fees, or if itís just waiting on revenue to increase from its continued growth and wants more cash to make sure that happens. The company has†lost money over the last few years, too ó with the total loss increasing the last three years. It still may be another 18 months or longer before we really know if Spotifyís long-term business strategy is working. And while Spotify is firmly focused on growth and maintaining a robust library of songs, the company has also been adding new features to the service, building out its advertising model for the free ad-supported version of the service, and cultivating its own application platform that lets developers build music services on top of Spotify. The new funding round was led by†Technology Crossover Ventures†The new round also bumps Spotifyís estimated valuation to ìnorthî of $4 billion, according to WSJís sources. Previous reports placed the companyís†valuation at closer to $5 billion.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. KEN FISHER: The Naive RIA World Is At Risk Of Being Taken Over By Broker-Dealers (ThinkAdvisor) Ken Fisher, chairman and CEO of Fisher Investments that manages $50 billion in assets thinks the RIA world will be take over by broker-dealers."If youíre a BD, get out your knife and fork and get ready to eat the RIAs as dessert because thatís probably where itís going," Fisher told Jane Wollman Rusoff in a piece for ThinkAdvisor. "If youíre an RIA, youíd better get un-naÔve: the RIA world is at threat of being taken over by BDs in a regulatory sense. Thereís a good chance that the entire RIA world is gone in 10 years. The SEC doesnít seem to understand what itís doing." "All the features of the potential fiduciary standard, including mandatory arbitration elimination, are likely to backfire and blow back ó maybe fatally ó on the naÔve RIA world. BDs will likely subsume and exterminate the RIA world because the BDs would like to take it over: Money has been coming out of BDs and going into RIAs for 40 years. The RIA world has been growing rapidly at the expense of the BD world. And the BD world hates that." THE US 20: Twenty Huge Trends That Will Dominate America's Future (Business Insider) There are 20 huge trends that will dominate the U.S. according to Business Insider's Rob Wile. Here are 10 of them. 1. The Bay Area is the new place to be as money pours into firms in the region. 2. The U.S. has become a renting-and-sharing economy. 3. Texas is the new growth engine with new job creation and the shale boom boosting economic growth. 4. The rise of automation. 5. Energy costs are no longer growing. 6. Wearable technology is becoming mainstream and is expected to grow from 14 million devices shipped in 2011 to 171 million units by 2016. 7. "Old Hollywood is dead and old TV is dying." 8. The education bubble has burst. 9. "The unintended consequences of Obamacare." 10. "The end of men." The unemployment rate among men is higher than for women and the male/female share of the labor force is "within o more† than two years of equalizing." Investors Should Have A Sufficient Set Of Metrics Before Making Stock Selection Decisions (Vanguard)  Tom Stevens of Los Angeles Capital Management, who manages a third of the Vanguard Growth and Income Fund, said that during the financial crisis investors were focused on balance sheets and ignoring earnings and value metrics. "Had we not had a process that had the ability to focus on things like leverage and distress, yield and those types of characteristics, quite honestly it would have been very difficult to figure out how to, basically,make our stock selections back then." Stevens says investors should make sure they have a "sufficient enough set of metrics" to make their stock-selection decisions. Top Advisors See Their Pay Surge (Investment News)  Financial advisors that are also owners earned a median of $240,000, according to the InvestmentNews/Moss Adams 2013 Compensation and Staffing Study. That ups 17% from the 2011 study. Meanwhile, compensation for top advisors went up 12% in the same time period to a median of $134,000. In comparison, advisors that work under a top advisor earn a median of $81,332, down from $81,686 in 2011 . EINHORN: Certain Aspects Of The Market Are Behaving Like We're In A Bubble (CNBC) Speaking at the Robin Hood Investors Conference, Greenlight Capital's David Einhorn told CNBC that he doesn't "know which way the market is going." He also said, "there are certain aspects of the market and certain stocks that are behaving like we're in a bubble..." In terms of his gold holdings, Einhorn said, he holds it "just in case something goes really haywire." "What I'm thinking about is mostly the monetary policies and the fiscal policies being run by the big economies."
Stijn Debrouwere/FlickrHiring in finance and insurance services could tumble nearly 60% for MBAs in the 2013-2014 year, according to the newest recruiting trends report from Michigan State University‚Äôs Collegiate Employment Research Institute. Business school grads face the most uncertain career prospects of all degree holders, the report finds. The hiring market for MBAs is expected to contract by nearly 25% in the coming year, weighed on by the sharp drop in finance hiring and a projected 86% plunge in government opportunities. The report proposes that employers tend to hire fewer MBAs during periods of economic uncertainty. It says one common pattern is for employers to substitute MBA hires with cheaper bachelor's degrees, in order to cut short-term budget risks.¬† All finance hiring was initially expected to expand in 2012-2013, but dipped at the start of this year, according to the report. "The job market has soured with layoffs and hiring contractions because of increases in interest rates, declines in mortgage activity, growth in online banking, and new banking regulations," it says. MBAs may already be taking note. A report by the Wall Street Journal earlier this month found that the percentage of business school grads going into finance slid 12% at Harvard and 13% at Stanford over the past two years. Meanwhile, a record number of the elite graduates headed to the tech sector. And while MBAs are expected to be among the hardest hit the finance hiring pullback, the Michigan State report suggests the sector isn't particularly promising for anyone. The industry as a whole is¬†expected to cut hiring by 40%, with prospects for bachelor's degree holders falling by up to 27%.
Mary Robnett/Business InsiderCornell's campus overlooking Lake Cayuga, in Ithaca, NY[Editor's note: Due to a statistical error, Crestview, Fla. was incorrectly ranked #4 on this list. The list has been updated and corrected as of 12/6/2013] When picking a college, a school's location can sometimes be just as important as its academics.¬† The American Institute of Economic Research has released its latest College Destination Index, which compared college towns around the country based on their academic environment, quality of life, and professional opportunity.¬† The index separated the destinations by population size. Here we've rounded up the best of the small college towns, all with a population under 250,000. We've included select statistics about each town; click here to see the full report.
Mike Nudelman, Business Insider The United States has been marred in slow economic growth and a weak recovery for years now. Unemployment remains high. This is despite extraordinary efforts by the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy. This drawn out period of low inflation and high unemployment has gotten more and more people talking about a "new normal" of mediocre growth. Economists have been looking for ways to give central banks more power to combat recessions and prevent these long, drawn out recoveries. Larry Summers laid out this†major impending economic challenge†in his recent speech at the IMF. Normally, when a recession hits, central banks cut interest rates to incentivize firms to invest and to spur economic growth. But when interest rates hit zero, those banks lose one of their most important tools to combat recessions. This is called the zero lower bound. Hitting the zero-lower bound means that interest rates cannot reach their natural equilibrium where desired investment equals desired savings. Instead, even at zero, interest rates are too high, leading to too much saving and a lack of demand. Thus we get the slow recovery. Until recently, we hadn't hit that bound. But since the Great Recession, we've been stuck up against it and the Fed has been forced to use unconventional policy tools instead. What Summers warned of is that this may become the new normal. When the next recession hits, interest rates are likely to be barely above zero. The Fed will cut them and we'll find ourselves up against the zero lower bound yet again and face yet another slow recovery. So what's the answer? University of Michigan economist Miles Kimball has developed a theoretical solution†to this problem in the form of an electronic currency that would allow the Fed to bring nominal rates below zero to combat recessions. He's been presenting his plan to different economists and central bankers around the world. Kimball has also written repeatedly about it and was recently interviewed by Wonkblog's Dylan Matthews. "If you have a bad recession, then firms are afraid to invest," he told Business Insider. "You have to give people a pretty good deal to make them willing to invest and that good deal means that the borrowers actually have to be paid to tend the money for the savers." But paper currency makes this impossible.† "You have this tradition that as it is now is enshrined in law in various ways that the government is going to guarantee to all savers that they will get [at least] a zero interest," Kimball said. If the Fed lowered rates below zero in our current financial system, savers would simply withdraw their money from the bank and sit on it instead of letting it incur negative returns. The paper currency itself ó because it's something that can be physically withdrawn from the financial system ó prevents rates from going negative. This is where Kimball's idea for an electronic currency comes in. However, unlike Bitcoin, which prides itself on its decentralization and anonymity, Kimball's digital currency would be centralized and widely used. He would effectively set up two different types of currencies: dollars and e-dollars. Right now, your $100 bill is equal to the $100 in the bank. If you're bank account has a 5% interest rate, you earn $5 of interest in a year and that $100 bill is still worth $100. But what would happen if that interest were -5%? Then you would lose $5 over the course of the year. Knowing this, you would rationally withdraw the $100 ahead of time and keep it out of the bank. This is where the separate currencies come in. "You have to do something a little bit more to get the negative rate on the paper currency," Kimball said. "You have to have the $100 bill be worth $95 a year later in order to have a -5% interest rate. The idea is to arrange things so letís say $100 in the bank equals $100 in paper currency now, but in a year, $95 in the bank is equal to $100 in paper currency. You have an exchange rate between them." "After a year, I could take $95 out of the bank and get a $100 bill or if I wanted to put a $100 bill into the bank, they would credit my account with $95." Got that? After a year of a -5% interest rate, $100 dollars are equal to $95 e-dollars. This ensures that paper currency also faces a negative interest rate as well and eliminates the incentive for savers to hoard dollar bills if the Fed implements a negative rate. Presto! The zero lower bound is solved. The benefits of this policy go even further though: We can say goodbye to inflation as well. "Once you take away the zero lower bound, there isn't a really strong reason to have 2% inflation at this point," Kimball said. "The major central banks around the world have 2% inflation and Ben Bernanke explained very clearly why that is. It's to steer away from the zero lower bound." He's right. Back in March, Ryan Avent asked Bernanke why not have a zero percent inflation target. Bernanke answered, "[I]f you have zero inflation, youíre very close to the deflation zone and nominal interest rates will be so low that it would be very difficult to respond fully to recessions." But if nominal interest rates are allowed to go below zero, then the Fed has ample room to respond to recessions even if rates start out low. This is another major benefit from eliminating the zero lower bound. What Kimball, whose blog is titled†Confessions of a Supply Side Liberal, is most excited about is moving beyond the demand shortfall the economy currently faces to the supply side issues that hold back long-term growth. "If you care at all about the future of this country, one of the things you need to realize is we need to solve the demand side so we can get back to the supply side issues that are really the tricky thing for the long run," he said. "The way to solve the demand side issues that is the most consistent with not messing up our supply side is monetary policy and making it so we can have negative interest rates." At the moment, e-dollars are still only a theoretical concept, but Kimball is hopeful that they could be put into action in the near future. He believes that if a government bought in, it could be using an electronic currency in three years and reap the benefits of it soon after.† "This is going to happen some day," he concluded. "Let me tell you why. There are a lot of countries in the world and some country is going to do this and it's going to be a whole lot easier for other countries to do it once some country has stepped out."
Official U.S. Navy Page/FlickrStocks climbed today, the Philly Fed index fell, and the U.S. Treasury announced plans to exit its stake in GM. But first, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Milton Friedman famously opined, ìInflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon in the sense that it cannot occur without a more rapid increase in the quantity of money than in output.î However, the equation of exchange, to which Friedman strongly adhered, has three variables (money supply, output, and velocity) that combine to tautologically form price. Much fat has been chewed over money supply inflation theories, particularly given central bank actions during the financial crisis. This article proposes a framework for understanding inflation with all four terms of the equation of exchange†and finds evidence that suggests productive capacity and velocity, not money supply, have the largest impact on prices. Matt BusiginFigure 1: Output (nominal GDP), money supply (M2) and velocity (GDP :M2 ratio)To quickly review the theory: National income can be more than the available money supply because each of us earns money and spends or invests most of it. This spending and investment provides income to other participants in the economy, increasing national income, whereas the quantity of money can remain fixed. The measure of how many times a dollar circulates is velocity, which means that controlling money supply growth is not adequate to limit demand and†thus price growth. A policy that targeted a purely flat money supply would be helpless to contain inflation if the participants were sufficiently motivated to transact with greater circulation of the same dollar. As Figure 1 shows, the velocity of M2 money has varied greatly, ranging from 1.577 to 2.2 over 54 years. The range represents a mammoth $6.74 trillion on the basis of todayís M2 money supply, or 40% of present nominal GDP. Mervyn King wrote extensively about the relationship between money supply and future prices. The cross-country scattergraphs he generated clearly show a long-run relationship after about the 10-year horizon. Matt BusiginFigure 2: Scatter graphs of Monetary Base Growth vs Future CPI Growth, from 1 to 20 years  (click to expand) The U.S. data paint a different picture. The monetary aggregate†that the Federal Reserve directly controls (monetary base) is actually quite†negatively†correlated with future inflation. We ran a series of 20 regressions, from 1 to 20 years, comparing the trailing annualized growth in monetary base with the future annualized growth in the CPI (Figure 2). Out of 20 years, only 2 showed (slightly) positive correlations.†If we viewed the relationship in a vacuum, we could perhaps conclude that the Fedís expanding the base money supply could lower the inflation rate. But that seems logically unlikely,†forcing us to search elsewhere for explanations for inflation. Matt BusiginFigure 3: Price level & money supply level in 4 hyperinflation cases King added a†graph comparing money supply and price levels in†four instances of hyperinflation: Austria and Hungary in 1921, Argentina in 1989, and Israel in 1995 (Figure 3). The most fascinating observation of all emerges: In each case, the price level increase preceded the money supply increase ó that is, money supply rose to match the increased price level. This explanation is a substantial departure from the typical one, but when a variable lags another, it is unlikely to be a causative factor. If we cannot explain inflation principally with monetary factors because velocity plays such a critical role, we must find a way to explain inflation†with non-monetary factors. To explore this approach, we†go back to the equation of exchange, MV†= PQ. Matt BusiginFigure 4: A review of money supply measurementsTo reiterate: M is the money supply (Figure 4), V is the velocity of money, P is the price level, and Q is the output level. The determinants of P and V are where the supply and demand curves meet to form Q. Thus, while Q explicitly is the supply at price P, V opaquely embeds the schedule of demand. Letís begin by examining V and, by proxy, demand. Matt BusiginFigure 5: Scatterplot of the Middle:Old Age Ratio vs M2 velocity What compels participants in an economy to transact more frequently? One of the more obvious explanations is demographics. In 2011, the San Francisco Federal Reserve published a letter†examining the ratio of two demographic cohorts†ó middle-aged (40s)†and old-aged (60s) ó against the price-to-earnings ratio, theorizing that the changes drove the marginal preferences in asset markets. Perhaps unsurprisingly, this approach†also does a pretty good job of explaining the velocity of money (Figure 5). But we can do better. Matt BusiginFigure 6: Scatterplots of Annualised Population Growth vs Future Annualised Inflation, from 1-20 years. Mimicking the†analysis in Figure 2, we ran a series of 20 regressions, from 1 to 20 years, comparing the trailing annualized growth in population with the future annualized growth in the CPI (Figure 6). The R≤ at 20 years is 0.98†ó a very strong relationship that suggests population growth†is†the primary driver of inflation. Matt BusiginFigure 7: Supply & Demand Curves A picture of non-monetary inflation begins to emerge.†But we propose that inflation†be viewed in the framework of good old-fashioned supply†and demand curves (Figure 7). Predict the shapes of those curves and you will predict inflation. † We can begin by taking statistical stock of what correlates best with future inflation. Although we†create a simple multiple linear regression model, we logically separate out our independent variables into three categories:†supply,†demand, and†policy (Figure 8). Matt BusiginFigure 8: Independent variable correlation coefficients to 1, 5 and 10 year future inflation, as well as the correlation the multiple linear regression model outputs.Output is the product of land, labor, and capital†ó the primary factors of production. The supply curve is defined by the economyís productive capacity, which the factors of production form. We find that the biggest contributor to future inflation at all forecasting intervals is†capital stock per capita, which we calculate as the cumulative sum of private investment after capital consumption per person. This supply factor poses as our measurement of the†capital†of the primary factors, given its convincing correlation†(96%)†with 10-year future inflation. Supply is rounded out by the other major factor of production: labor. When the employment-to-population†ratio moves up, more labor is available for production, which†adds capacity, reducing pressure on price. Total capacity utilization provides an estimate of how much immediate capacity in all factors of production has been utilized.†Unsurprisingly, this factor has the largest correlation at the shortest forecasting interval, with declining significance as the forecasting interval is extended. Matt BusiginFigure 9: 20y trailing population growth vs 20y future Nominal GDPAs Figure 9† shows, the R≤ between 20-year (20y) trailing population†growth and future nominal GDP growth is†0.935. Future demand is clearly dictated by population growth. A net new person will, at the very least, add net new demand for their†subsistence. But that isnít to say that the relationship of population to demand is static. When a worker ages into the peak-aged pool, their labor becomes newly valuable and exchangeable. Population growth shifts the demand curve†immediately and, over time, across the arc of the expenditures-by-age curve (Figure 10). Matt BusiginFigure 10: Expenditures by Age Group (2011 Consumer Expenditures Survey)The cyclical effects on inflation appear to be very muted other than in the short run. Perhaps surprisingly, the correlation between inflation and unemployment is low or nonexistent at nearly every interval. This†result is probably because of the cyclical fluctuations being moderated by policymaking and such automatic stabilizers†as unemployment insurance and progressive taxation. Were policy to do less to smooth out downturns in private spending, inflation would likely be more negatively correlated with unemployment. As of now, the strongest correlation is actually a leading correlation†ó†inflation leads unemployment†ó which is the result of the Fedís late reaction†to inflation, particularly in the 1970s. Policymaking, fiscal or monetary, really just shapes what trends deliver at the margin. It is less important and less statistically affecting than either supply or demand. Matt BusiginFigure 11: The long lag of monetary policyAlthough†M2 is not the strongest input,†it does correlate with future inflation, and the growth of M2 is the result of policy over the midterm. We estimate monetary policy by subtracting the fed funds rate from nominal GDP (Figure 11). This approach is preferred to simple real fed funds because of its superior explanatory power for both†future inflation†(best R = ñ0.39 for NGDP ñ FF versus best R = ñ0.27 for CPI ñ FF)†and†future recessions†(best R = ñ0.29 for GDP ñ FF versus best R = ñ0.19). Matt BusiginFigure 12: Deficit net Defense (smaller is a larger deficit) and Fixed Private Investment net Capital Consumption We estimate the tightness of fiscal policy by measuring the gap between fixed private investment and the deficit net of defense (Figure 12). We observe that investment is the lever of cyclicality. Since the absolution of Bretton Woods, the deficit net defense has closely offset net private fixed investment. When the investment term becomes too small relative to the deficit term, the economy slows. This result has a much stronger signal for forecasting both the economy and inflation than just the deficit alone†because it provides context for how big the deficit should be†with respect to†the level of net private fixed investment. The retiring generation of Baby Boomers is offset by the Millennial Generation coming of age.†Although the expenditures of retirees decline, they still spend a slim majority of their peak expenditures while not contributing to supply.†At the same time, the marginal Millennial coming of age will replace the marginal retiring Boomersí demand, creating an excess of demand with the same level of labor (Figure 13). Matt BusiginFigure 13: 10y Compounded Annual Growth Rate of CPI and supply-side factor forecastThere is substitutability between factors of production. The more capital rich the economy, the less labor intensive is†production.†This fact is quite meaningful: The dependency ratio in the United States is possibly the best in the Western world, but it is still projected to nearly double in the next†four decades.† At the same time, dependency ratios in the rest of the world are projected to spike faster and further.†This†is the biggest story for the supply curve and, consequently, for inflation. The global depletion of peak-aged labor clearly necessitates one of two things: higher prices or higher rates of investment to form new capital. Although†the marginal Millennial coming of age provides an immediate source of labor, turning investment into new capital is not an instantaneous process. In addition, although some demand declines with consumer age and, by extension, demographic composition, residential capital stock is driven more purely by population size. Matt BusiginFigure 14: 1-year CPI %-y/y and the model forecast After being overinvested†and hence oversupplied (evaluated†with respect to†the declining pace of inflation) for a decade, the Great Recession has seen a sharp decline in investment and an even larger decline in per capita investment. The great force that drove down inflation has not only paused†but also†reversed. In fact,†the level of investment at the time of writing is†still†below replacement†(Figure 14). Inflation and dual-mandate monetary policy truly leave policymakers in a Catch-22. An economy with elevated inflation probably has a†real capital deficit. By increasing the cost of capital to reduce demand,†formation of fixed capital is also retarded†ó the deficit of which is the principal determinant of inflation to begin with. The discussion on inflation has gotten far away from†its principal determinants. To return to the Friedman quote, it is easy to conclude that†there is some monetary inflation. But inflation is usually and in most places a function of shifting supply and demand curves and not†îalways and†everywhere a†monetary phenomenon.î†By better understanding the true drivers of inflation, we can†forecast it better†and manage it more effectively.
MinneapolisFedMinneapolis Fed President Narayana KocherlakotaTwo top economists are out at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis after the pair "differed philosophically" from bank President Narayana Kocherlakota, the Star Tribune's Adam Belz reports. Patrick Kehoe, a faculty member at the University of Minnesota, was the bank's top-ranked research economist. Ellen McGrattan, who joined the Minneapolis Fed in 1992 and was the bank's third-ranked economist, will go on unpaid leave and take a position at "the U" as well. The departure of the two star economists has "raised eyebrows" in the academic community, according to the report.  The Minneapolis Fed has long been seen as a stalwart of research, joining with the nearby university to foster an academic brain trust.¬†From the Star Tribune: McGrattan said she does not know why Kocherlakota would fire Kehoe or let her leave ‚Äî ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs absolutely mysterious to us,‚Äù she said ‚Äî but the circle of advisers to the president has shrunk since he arrived and she has been frozen out. "The last time I talked to Narayana one on one was before he was the president [in 2009]" she said. There are subtle policy differences between Kocherlakota and the economists who are leaving. Kocherlakota has been at the center of a debate over the effectiveness of the Fed‚Äôs low-interest-rate policy. He has pushed for nearly two years for the Fed to hold down rates until unemployment drops to 5.5 percent. Once considered a monetary policy "hawk," Kocherlakota is one of the more dovish members of the Fed, advocating monetary stimulus and using accommodative phrases about how the central bank should do "whatever it takes" to reduce unemployment and juice the economy. Read the full report at the Star-Tribune ¬ª
The Federal Open Market Committee's surprise decision to refrain from announcing a tapering down of its quantitative easing program on September 18 has given a lift to a variety of markets around the world. The chart below highlights returns across asset classes ó both in the year to date and since the September 18 decision. The biggest winners over the latter timeframe: Spanish and Italian equities. Bloomberg Finance LP, Deutsche Bank ResearchTotal return accounts for both income (interest or dividends) and capital appreciation. Prices as of 18 Nov 2013, COB.
Interior DepartmentThe year is winding down, so it's time to take stock of where America is heading. Last year's†inaugural U.S. 20 list†featured things like the end of retail, the revival of manufacturing and the shale revolution. † Believe it or not, it wasn't difficult at all to come up with 20 brand new trends this year†that will dominate headlines over the next decade.† It's not that all of last year's forces have already dissipated. But new movements have already sprung up. The 2013 list includes two new geographic centers of the American economy, evolving patterns of relationships, robots, and the changing energy landscape. Check it out.
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonNational foreclosure inventory stands at 1.5 million homes ó a five-year low ó†according to the latest figures from the Mortgage Bankers Association. Yet despite the nationwide decline, foreclosure inventory has been rising in the judicial states of New York and New Jersey. A judicial state is one that requires court action on a foreclosed home (i.e., a judge must sign off on the foreclosure before the lender repossesses the property). New York's foreclosure inventory stood at 144,000 at the end of the third quarter, and New Jersey's was at 119,000 ó both around peak levels. "New Yorkís foreclosure backlog has been made worse by a requirement that lenders positively affirm that all elements of a foreclosure filing are correct, while mitigation programmes in New Jersey may be dragging out inevitable foreclosures," writes Paul Diggle, a property economist at Capital Economics, in a note to clients. Diggle told Business Insider he believes the foreclosure overhang could have been exacerbated by Hurricane Sandy. Some borrowers that werenít fully insured at the time may have chosen to walk away instead of rebuilding their homes. The judicial process means it typically takes about two years from the last payment made on a mortgage to foreclose on a home in New York and New Jersey, compared with states like Alabama and Missouri where it takes less than a year. This foreclosure overhang, weak demand, and relatively high unemployment rates are the main reasons Diggle doesn't think either state has good short-term housing market prospects. "A robust recovery is unlikely to emerge anytime soon," says Diggle. The chart below plots the rise of foreclosure inventory in New York and New Jersey against the decline in Florida, which still has the nation's largest foreclosure inventory in absolute terms. Capital Economics
Hedge fund heavyweight David Einhorn, who runs Greenlight Capital, was just on CNBC's "Halftime Report" with Scott Wapner from the inaugural Robin Hood Investors Conference. † Earlier today at the conference, Einhorn revealed that's he's long Micron Technology. Wapner got Einhorn to talk about St. Joe's, Apple and Green Mountain Coffee Roasters. Einhorn also touched upon his investment in gold. † Einhorn has been short St. Joe for three years now. He's still short the stock.† "What's interesting about St. Joe is it's not a business. It's a pool of land that's being liquidated over time," Einhorn said.† Einhorn believes that St. Joe is worth about $7 dollars a share, but right now it's trading around $18. †He says that it's hard to even come up with a number higher than $10 a share.† Einhorn said he's still long Apple. He made headlines when he†took aim at the tech giant's massive cash hoard earlier this year. † "The thing with Apple is we bought the stock about three years ago. Our goal was to be sort of happy passive holders," Einhorn said. He explained that the cash built up and it "kind of became out of hand." He said his idea was meant to unlock some value. † He called getting involved in the company a "rare event" for him. †† He said he still thinks Apple's capital management is a C+. He said it had been at a D- and that more could be done. The conversation moved to gold. Gold hasn't been playing out well this year, Einhorn acknowledged.† "We bought the gold in 2008 when we saw what was going on with policy," he said. "What we really own gold for is just in case something goes really haywire. What I'm thinking about is mostly the monetary policies and the fiscal policies being run by the big economies," he said.† Einhorn said he's still short Green Mountain Coffee Roasters. †He wouldn't detail if he covered any shares.† The stock is trading up more than 14% today after it reported earnings yesterday. Einhorn called those numbers "a little cheesy."† Einhorn believes that Green Mountain's monopoly on K-cups is over. "The real problem they have is this was theoretically a razor blade business ... they lost the patents ... anybody can make these things [K cups] and they have," he said.† "We think there's ultimately going to be competition, commoditization and a price war," Einhorn said. † As for his fund, Einhorn said that it's been a tough year for Greenlight's short positions. Einhorn is a famed short-seller who predicted the demise of Lehman Brothers. He noted that his longs have done well, though. † "We don't know which way the market is going." Wapner asked him if we're in a bubble. "It's really hard to say. There are certain aspects of the market and certain stocks that are behaving like we're in a bubble..." Wapner asked Einhorn about the digital currency.† "I don't know about Bitcoin," he replied.
This conference is closed to press. He's speaking CNBC's Scott Wapner. ¬† Micron Technology produces semiconductors. ¬† The stock was not listed in Greenlight Capital's¬†latest 13F filing.¬†¬† Here's the chart from when the news broke earlier today:¬† Yahoo! Finance 
Flickr/Planet_HuggerOdyssey Marine Exploration Inc. (NASDAQ: OMEX) is a company that dives for ship wrecked treasure and sells it. Ryan Morris is a 29 year-old managing partner of Meson Capital, a San Francisco based hedge fund with $15 million assets under management, and he's certain that OMEX is going all the way to zero. The company, he says, is hemorrhaging money. In its quest for buried sea treasures, OMEX is coming up empty. Morris doesn't usually short companies to zero ‚Äî activist investing is more his forte ‚Äî but the deeper he dug into OMEX, the weirder things got. Founded in 1994 by a former employee of Bob Hope, Morris says that OMEX insiders made unfulfilled promises to investors and collected over $20 million in cash while the company has lost over $180 million since 2000. "I heard about it maybe a year ago and didn't pay much attention because it seemed so ridiculous," said Morris "Then around 6 months ago they [OMEX] disclosed that they set up all these off-shore entities off the coast of Panama and Bahamas, and it was just one of those things where every layer you peel back the onion is just more horrific." Back in 2007, the company essentially peaked when it dug up the remains of a Spanish warship that sunk in 1804, Nuestra Se√±ora de las Mercedes ‚Äî OMEX called the site 'Black Swan'. Buried deep underwater were 594,000 silver coins, as well as a couple hundred gold ones, according to Bloomberg. A big score, sure, until the Spanish government sued to get their booty back. Under maritime law, if a ship is sunk while doing its duty, everything on it belongs to its country of origin. So after a five year battle, OMEX lost its haul and was fined $1,072,979 in the process. Last year, OMEX's CEO, Greg Stemm admitted that the company has spent more money on wrecks it hasn't found than the $2.6 million it spent on Black Swan. Naturally, investors were furious. Ryan Morris, Meson Capital PartnersBack to Meson. The hedge fund's full 66 page OMEX take-down was published on October 31st of this year. In response, the company called Meson's strategy a "short and distort," and wrote a letter to shareholders saying: "Odyssey's management believes that it is in the best interest of our shareholders to remain focused on business rather than debating or responding to rumor and innuendo. However, due to the number of inquiries to the company, management felt it important to reaffirm and stand by the accuracy of all information which has been released by the company." After that, OMEX called a conference call and took questions during a Q&amp;A. Meson pointed out in a follow-up report, that OMEX didn't refute any of its statements about the company on the call: Questions related to how the company loses $20 million a year, and can spend $25,000 a day on its ships. Or questions related to Neptune Minerals, Inc. Before Meson's report, OMEX claimed that Neptune was the source of $108 million in "off balance sheet value" for the company. After the report, OMEX issued a 10-Q in which Neptune appears, to Meson, to be insolvent. When you find a company like this, said Morris, "There's a lot of horror and befuddlement." No one ever said treasure hunting was easy. Note: This article has been corrected to reflect that a) OMEX did take questions during a conference call; b) OMEX did not revise its 10Q; and c) Greg Stemm, despite working for Bob Hope, was not Mr. Hope's PR Manager.
Starbucks is one of the most dominant brands in the world, but the coffee chain has plenty of room for growth.¬† Analysts at Morgan Stanley highlighted four major growth opportunities for Starbucks based on a presentation by company executives.¬† None of the growth opportunities directly involve coffee, Starbucks' signature product.¬† Instead, executives should focus on food, tea, and soda:¬† 1. The Boulange Bakery. Starbucks is in the process of replacing its traditional pastries with sweets from the La Boulange brand, a longtime San Francisco favorite. In addition to offering more edgy "sweet and savory" items, Starbucks is now heating up all pastries before they're served to customers. "Results are getting better as more cities are added, with strongest adoption on the coasts," the authors write.¬† 2. Drive-thrus. Starbucks is continuing to add drive-thrus at locations across America, which Morgan Stanley calls a "meaningful sales driver." Two-thirds of units Starbucks is building this year have drive-thrus, according to the note.¬† 3. Lunch. Starbucks is testing lunch soups and sandwiches at certain locations. Menu items include barbecue pulled pork sandwiches, chicken noodle soup, and a grilled chicken chipotle panini. "Lunch test is still in early stage but we see it as big incremental opportunity," the analysts write.¬† 4. Soda and tea. Starbucks is currently rolling out more carbonated beverages and Teavana teas, categories that will expand to all locations by the end of 2014. Starbucks also plans to add as many as 1,000 Teavana cafes in the next few years.¬†
As far as clothing maintenance goes, packing and transporting menís suit and sports jackets is pretty high on the list of aggravating tasks. A good wool jacket combines two major problems when itís not on your shoulders:†itís bulky, and itís vulnerable to permanent creasing if a fold gets pressed into the fabric. You can steam or iron those out later, in most cases, but itís still extra work, and hard on the jacketís longevity. Itís a problem that cries out for a solution. Fortunately, we have three for you. Real Men Real Style This one does involve a large fold down the center of the jacket, meaning itís not quite as crease-proof as a good roll. That said, you often have to fold a jacket to get it into a suitcase ó especially when space is very limited ó and a flat fold is sometimes the only way to go. This oneís better than most, and reduces the number of folds that arenít on seams to one. Basically, you gently work one shoulder inside-out, then tuck the other shoulder into it, seam against seam. The sleeves lie straight down the jacket, one on top of the other, and the breast panels (with their linings turned outward) sandwich the whole thing. Then you fold it in half from the bottom and pack it away. This oneís good for when you need a flatter fold than a roll and the jacket is going to be stowed for a while. If youíre good about not stacking too much weight on it, the crease down the middle shouldnít set, and youíve got the jacket lining protecting the outside of the jacket from any wear or tear. Its big disadvantage, other than the single fold that can potentially crease, is that it can take a couple tries to get it right, and that you generally need a clean flat surface to do it on. It can be done standing and holding the jacket, but itís tricky. Real Men Real Style For the guy on the go, sometimes the easiest way to deal with the jacket is just to quickly fold it over like a dress shirt. The sleeves tuck behind the back, with the shoulders overlapping slightly at the middle, and the whole thing gets folded in half from the bottom, tucking the bottom hem up underneath the collar. The lapels and collar sit right on top, and you get a pretty neat square shape. The resulting bundle is about the same size as the one you get in Option #2, but a little thicker in the middle and not quite as even. The big problem here is that youíre folding the jacket in several places, both vertically and horizontally. Thatís a good way to get at least some creases, especially where the folds cross each other. So why bother mentioning it? Itís a lot quicker to throw together than the other two folds, and itís easy to do without a flat surface. You just tuck the collar of the jacket under your chin and make three quick folds, and bam, youíre done. If you know youíre just going to be throwing the jacket on top of a case for a short period, thisíll work just fine. For longer travel, or if itís going to have weight pressing down on it, youíre better off with one of the other methods. Real Men Real Style My personal favorite! To get the least number of folds possible, thereís an easy solution: donít fold the jacket at all. You still need to do some creative tucking and layering, but it is possible to roll the whole jacket up (rather like a sleeping blanket or sleeping pad) into a soft tube of fabric. The big advantage here is that, properly done, a rolled jacket is never folded across the fabric. Most of the action happens around the shoulders and sleeves, which are made to flex, and the broad front and back panels of the jacket get bent gently into a curve rather than pressed flat into a corner. You can also usually tuck a shirt or a couple pairs of underwear into the roll, if youíve got a deep enough suitcase. Just donít try to cram too much in there ó the roll wonít hold as well, and youíll be more likely to wrinkle your jacket in the process. The main disadvantage of a roll is that it takes up more space (especially vertical space) than a flat fold, and that it can sometimes take a few tries to get it right with no wrinkles. And remember, you need to take those extra tries ó if you force the jacket into storage with interior wrinkles, theyíre likely to crease. However you fold and store your jackets (more on that in a minute), there are a couple of ways to always minimize the damage to it: It doesnít do anything about the bulk (weíll show you some creative folds in a minute that will help with that), but treating the jacket gently in the first place, no matter what youíre doing, can help it get to its destination crease-free and ready to wear.
Instagram/ TheBrownstoneNYActivist investor Daniel Loeb of Third Point LLC ¬†mentioned SoftBank Corp. at the Robin Hood Investors Conference, according to a source at the conference.¬† The conference is closed to press. SoftBank's stock, which trades over the counter in the U.S., is up more than 4%.¬† SoftBank¬†is a large Japanese telecommunications and Internet company.¬† Loeb has said that he's bullish on Japan. He has a large stake in Sony, another huge Japanese company. ¬† Check out the chart:¬† Yahoo! Finance 
Thomas Leuthard/Flickr Moving forward, we plan to utilize robust social media content, big data, and the cloud to literally provide transparency and seamlessly impact sustainability. Sound familiar? How many of the year's most popular business words can you use in a sentence? The hottest business words of 2013 are in, and they're overwhelmingly about the Internet.¬†"Content" far and away tops the list, followed by "social media." "The cloud," "big data," and "ping" also made the cut. We reached out to the Global Language Monitor, which publishes an annual list of the year's top English words, to compile a ranking of the most popular business terms. The GLM's ranking is based on how many times the word was used, analyzing billions of pages on the Internet, social media, blogs, and the top 275,000 print and electronic global media sources. To be considered for the list, terms needed at least 25,000 citations across the world. Here are the year's most overused business words: 1. Content 2. Social media 3. Sustainability 4. Transparency 5. Literally 6. Guru 7. Utilize 8. Robust 9. Ping 10. Big data 11. Nouns used as verbs (to concept, to ballpark, to impact) 12. Seamless 13. Moving forward 14. The cloud 15. Offline
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVTotal retail sales jumped 0.4% in October, quadrupling expectations for 0.1% advance. And in a new note to clients, Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg says the figures bode well for the holiday season. When people feel financially comfortable enough to spend in restaurants, it means they are ready to plunk down money for gifts. Here's Rosenberg: Restaurant activity of all the components tends to be the best leading indicator and the trend here is pointing north. Sales rose 1% in October, and since June the trend has accelerated to a near 6% annual rate; the YOY trend jumped in October to +4.4% from +1.3% as well. This could bode very well for spending growth into the holiday season. If people are willing to eat out, the most discretionary of discretionary activity, then they certainly are not going to chintz on their holiday shopping. "But one thing is for sure ‚Äî the windfall from the drop in gas prices is being put right back into the economy," Rosenberg adds. And that trend may continue through holiday shopping, according to¬†TD Securities'¬†Gennadiy Goldberg. "With gasoline prices likely to remain contained in the near-term, we may see stronger consumption trends persist over the next few months, helping to lessen the anticipated impact of the government shutdown on Q4 growth expectations," he said.
Photo by Feng Li/Getty ImagesChina wrapped up its third plenum earlier this month and announced a string of reforms.† Soon after, Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of the People's Bank of China, wrote an article on deepening financial system reforms in a 'Guidance Book' on the third plenum 'decision'. "Though the article is very informative about reform ideas and strategies, it contains little new information. It neither gives a specific reform timetable nor hints at any imminent moves," writes Bank of America's Ting Lu. Here are some of the PBoC's comments so far. On Tuesday, it was reported that the central bank intends to widen the renminbi trading band, which currently trades in a range of 1%. Though officials have talked about widening the trading band before, it is now expected to widen to 5-10% around a central reference rate that will be set every month or quarter. "The pace of reform in this regard has been significantly delayed despite frequent mentions of this reform," writes Ting. "We believe the PBoC will announce the band widening when the global macro environment becomes more stable and the spread between the RMB-USD fixing and spot is relatively stable and narrow." Then, Chinese PBoC deputy governor Yi Gang, said "it's no longer in China's favor to accumulate foreign-exchange reserves," according to a Bloomberg report. Yi added that "the marginal cost of accumulating foreign reserves has exceeded marginal gains." China's foreign exchange reserves now stand at $3.7 trillion. Again we had no timeline for this. Capital account liberalization in terms of cross-border lending and equity portfolio investment will "remain quite slow, except for easing those flows related to allowing offshore RMB to return to China as a result of RMB internationalization." Markets are also watching to see when the PBoC will lift the ceiling on deposit rates and allow for true interest rate liberalization. From Ting: "In the near- to medium-term, PBoC will form a market-based rate system and improve central banks rate control and transmission mechanism. In the medium term, all rates will be liberalized. He reiterated that the PBoC will set up a deposit insurance system. Note that itís unclear how to define near-term or medium-term. "In our view, liberalizing bank deposits will be the core of China's future financial reforms. The PBoC has, in October, started a system to publish major banks' prime lending rates for rate-pricing guidance; the next steps could be to introduce interbank certificates of deposit (CDs) and to establish a deposit-insurance scheme. Then, China could introduce large-denomination negotiable certificates of deposit (NCDs) to corporates and individuals, and finally gradually loosen restrictions on policy deposit rates." These iterations are a very clear sign that Governor Zhou is a reformer and that Beijing wants to be less interventionist. The theme of the third plenum was allowing markets to play a "decisive" role in the economy. But "the market might be overly excited about the pace of financial reforms," writes Ting.
Jamie McDonald/Getty ImagesThe Philadelphia Federal Reserve's Business Outlook Survey for November plummeted to a reading of 6.5. Analysts expected the reading to decline to just 15.0, from 19.8. Full report ¬ª The current employment index fell 14 points from its reading in October (which was at a two‚Äêyear high), to 1.1.¬†Demand for manufactured goods, measured in new orders index, decreased 16 points, to 11.8.¬†The future general activity index fell 15 points, to 45.8. Still, it was the six-consecutive month the index has been in positive territory.
Despite reaching new all-time highs on multiple occasions this year, stock gains have been pretty average in 2013, rising 21.8% YTD. As LPL Financial's Jeff Kleintop wrote earlier this month, the second most common all-time outcome for the S&amp;P500 are¬†returns of¬†20‚Äì25%. Part of that averaging in the face of record highs may stem from stocks that had outperformed the market for most of the year seeing some pretty violent swings this week. Bespoke Investment pulls the following two charts showing this phenomenon. First, they break down the Russell 1,000 index, which captures about 89% of the stock market, into 10 performance deciles. At the far left is the top-performing decile. It's down -2.47% this week: ¬† Bespoke They then show that YTD performers at the very top have seen some of the greatest declines. We've highlighted stocks Business Insider usually covers. Tesla and Best Buy are both off about 11%. Netflix is down almost 3%. First solar has declined more than 5%.¬† Bespoke What's more, this is the second time this has happened this month, Bespoke notes. On Nov. 6, the top 25 stocks on the S&amp;P500 fell an average of -1.31%, while the Dow climbed 130 points.¬† Quite a year.
Peter MacDiarmid/Getty ImagesYou've seen the dramatic movie trope: Investigators ask some perp, "Hey, did you do the crime?" And the guy goes, "Um, no." Then the feds slide a single incriminating document across the table, and as a Hans Zimmer concerto swells, they ask, "Now what do you think?" It's more fun if you imagine this Wall Street Journal report happening like that, but basically a bunch of federal agents showed up to the New York home of a Deutsche Bank trader and presented him with "transcripts of an electronic chat in which the trader appeared to boast about trying to manipulate foreign-exchange markets." The trader's response,¬†according to the report, was something along the lines of:¬†"Oh, you mean¬†those¬†instant messages? That was a¬†joke."¬†From the Journal: People close to Deutsche Bank say the incident stemmed from a misunderstanding based at least partly on the trader having made a joke, in writing, about his ability to manipulate markets. Mr. Wallden remains a Deutsche Bank employee and hasn't been suspended, these people say. Tell the one about you and the market manipulation again! That one's a riot. Bloomberg's Matt Levine offers traders a bit of sage advice here: "The joy you experience when your buddies type 'lol bro u so good at manipulatin hahaha' in your chat room will not compensate for the sadness you experience when the feds knock on your door at 5 a.m." In fact, regulators in the U.S and abroad are using instant messages in their crusade to round up those responsible for an alleged currency manipulation scandal. And why not? Chat logs have been central to deeming culpability in the Libor investigation. The development spurred JP Morgan's Jamie Dimon ‚Äî who recognizes the off-the-cuff, incriminating nature of traderspeak instant messages ‚Äî to tell employees to not "bullshit" over IM.¬† Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal ¬ª
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Green Mountain Coffee Roaster shares spiked more than 14% on the open after reporting better than expected earnings. The shares were wobbling violently in after-hours trading, as the company also reported a $1 billion buyback and pulled first quarter guidance back.
REUTERS/Jeff Kowalsky/FilesThe U.S. Treasury Department said today it plans to exit is remaining 31.1 million-share stake in General Motors by the end of 2013, subject to market conditions. "If average daily trading volumes continue at recent levels, Treasury anticipates that it will complete the sale of its remaining shares by the end of the year," said the Treasury in a statement. The U.S. government bailed out GM to the tune of $51 billion in the wake of the financial crisis, and has since gotten back $38.4 billion of its investment. Shares of the Detroit automaker are headed higher in pre-market trading. Right now, they are up around 2.3%.
Ultimate Factories/National Geographic Television And FilmCore inflation for October climbed 0.2%. Analysts were expecting a gain of 0.1%.¬† Headline inflation, which includes food and energy, came in in-line, falling -0.2%. Prices for passenger cars climbed 1.7%.¬†Finished energy goods prices fell 1.5%. Intermediate components prices fell -0.4% in October, the largest decline since a -0.6% drop in April. Core inflation hasn't breached a 0.2% gain in at least 12 months. Headline inflation hasn't climbed more than 1% in at least a year. "In year-over-year terms, the core PPI is up only 1.4%, and there is scant evidence that the trend will turn higher anytime soon based on upstream prices: Intermediate-stage core prices are up just 0.8% year-over-year, but crude-stage prices are down -5.1% over the same period," Deutsche Bank said. However, they note that ,"core service inflation in the October CPI was 2.3% year-over-year compared to core goods prices which are down -1.2%." Thus, "...muted goods inflation is masking sturdier underlying trends in consumer services which account for roughly 60% of the CPI."
MarkitThe flash reading for Markit's November U.S. purchasing manager's index surged to 54.3 versus the consensus estimate of¬†52.3. It's also up 51.8 from October. The reading is the highest since March. Output climbed to the highest reading in nine months.¬†But hiring slowed. At right is the full reading with our highlights. The three-month average, which gives an indication of the underlying trend, was at 52.9, "consistent with an ongoing modest improvement in manufacturing business ¬† conditions." The U.S. manufacturing sector "ground to a near standstill in October," though any effect from the government shutdown was seen as temporary.
The Wall Street Journal's Justin Baer reports that a "complex bet in the foreign-exchange market backfired" for Goldman. Specifically, the forex desk bet incorrectly on the value of the dollar versus the Japanese yen, according to the report. Oops! Every quarter, we look at all the major bank's trading revenue from fixed income, currencies, and commodities dubbed "FICC." But major banks don't break out each component of FICC, so when Goldman Sachs reported $1.25 billion FICC net revenue during the third quarter, down 44% from 2012 and 49% from Q2 2013, we only had this explanation from the earnings report to go by: "...reflecting significantly lower net revenues in mortgages and interest rate products, as well as in currencies." Now it seems "currencies" was the key term here. It's unclear what the miscalculation was. The yen has slumped against the dollar over the past year, but that trend has petered out a bit lately. It's also unclear just how much Goldman lost on the trade, but as Baer notes, "Goldman's FICC arm tends to rely more heavily than other rivals on business from hedge funds and other large investors that seek out more complex trades." Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal ª
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithThe latest weekly jobless claims figures are out. Initial claims fell to 323,000 in the week ended November 16 from an upward-revised 344,000 the week before. Economists were expecting a smaller drop to 335,000. Continuing claims edged up to 2.876 million in the week ended November 9 from a downward-revised 2.810 million in the previous week. Click here for the full release ¬ª
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsU.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen stands after testifying during a confirmation hearing on her nomination to be the next chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve before the Senate Banking Committee in Washington, November 14, 2013. WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Janet Yellen will take an important step on Thursday toward becoming the first woman to lead the U.S. Federal Reserve, with the Senate Banking Committee expected to back the nomination and clear her path to take the central bank's helm. President Barack Obama nominated the Fed's current vice chair to replace Ben Bernanke when his terms ends on January 31 and she had been expected to win confirmation with relative ease. The banking panel, where Obama's Democrats occupy 12 of the 22 seats, will vote at 10.00 a.m. (1500 GMT) on whether to pass her confirmation forward for consideration by the full Senate. Yellen, viewed as a monetary policy dove who puts more weight on driving down high unemployment than the risk this will ignite future inflation, will preside over a central bank that has taken dramatic steps to spur U.S. growth and hiring. It has held interest rates near zero since late 2008 and quadrupled the size of its balance sheet to $3.9 trillion through three massive asset purchase campaigns aimed at lowering the cost of long-term borrowing. This has made the Fed a target for Republican lawmakers worried that these ultra-easy policies have enabled big spending by the Obama administration. Little of this concern was forcefully raised by critics during Yellen's hearing before the banking panel last week, which she sailed through. Her confirmation is expected to be equally smooth, with a vote likely in December. Democrats control 55 of the 100 votes in the chamber, which means she needs to only secure the backing from five Republicans to overcome Senate procedural hurdles, and looks well on the way to reaching that threshold. Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee declared on Wednesday that he would support her confirmation and three other Republicans have also publicly said they were inclined to vote in her favor. "In the end, I do believe she has the qualifications necessary to be the Fed chairman and plan to support her nomination," said Corker, who voted against Yellen as Fed vice chair in 2010. In addition to Corker, Senator Susan Collins of Maine has told reporters she is inclined to support the nomination. Aides for Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina say they are likewise minded. Also, an aide for Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah said he was always predisposed to show deference on presidential nominations, although he has not yet declared how he would vote this time. There are some remaining obstacles. Republican Kentucky Senator Rand Paul plans to put a hold on her nomination in order to get a vote on a bill he has sponsored to expose the Fed to more congressional scrutiny. But he told Reuters TV that he did not expect to be able to block her successful confirmation. (Reporting By Alister Bull; editing by Andrew Hay)
At a El Mirage 200 MPH Club meet on November 13,¬†driver Brian Gillespie lost control of his car at about 185 mph. Barry Petchesky of Deadspin notes that Gillespie was released from the hospital this week after only suffered a collapsed lung and some cuts and bruises. David Freiburger at HotRod writes that Gillespie's survival "is testament to the safety measures and the obvious craftsmanship in the roll structure." The day before Gillespie's car reached 200.9 mph. 
REUTERS/Andrew KellyWojciech Braszczok (C) enters Manhattan Supreme Court in New York November 20, 2013. Braszczok, an undercover New York police detective, was arraigned on gang assault charges for his part in an attack on an SUV driver that was captured on video and went viral on YouTube.Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
Given that the federal deficit has narrowed by about 40% since last December, why not taper Treasury purchases by the same amount to $27 billion per month? That would be a credible, obvious, and easy way to sell tapering. Instead, Fed officials are subjecting us to their tiresome dramatics over an initial tapering that probably won‚Äôt be any bigger than $10 billion to $15 billion per month. It would make sense for the FOMC to taper QE purchases of Treasuries as the federal deficit narrows. However, Fed officials don‚Äôt want to admit that QE amounts to monetizing the federal debt. They prefer to say that they are striving to achieve the mandate of full employment and low inflation set for them by Congress. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Hamlets. (1) The show must go on and on. (2) Bullard‚Äôs performance. (3) QE is a ‚Äúbooster rocket.‚Äù (4) No ‚Äúobvious‚Äù bubbles. (5) Negative interest rates might be in fashion this winter. (6) Fathoming the unfathomable QE exit mess. (7) Lots of QE-or-not-QE questions. (8) Why not tie QE tapering to tapering of the federal deficit? (9) Hamlet on earnings and revenues. (More for subscribers.)
U.S. futures have gone from negative to positive this morning. Dow futures are up 38 points. S&amp;P 500 futures are up 3.8 points. This comes despite new signs of slowing in China and the euro zone. Later today, we'll get the latest tally of U.S. initial jobless claims and flash PMI. Here's a look at the move in Dow futures via FinViz. FinViz
DETROIT (Reuters) - Tesla Motors Inc &lt;TSLA.O&gt; won a near-perfect score for its Model S electric car in an annual owner-satisfaction survey conducted by influential magazine†Consumer Reports†and released Thursday. The results offer a rare piece of good news for Tesla, which has faced increasingly tough questions after three cars caught fire in less than two months. This week, U.S. regulators launched a safety probe into the Model S. "Owners of the Tesla Model S gave it the highest owner-satisfaction score†Consumer Reports†has seen in years: 99 out of 100," the magazine said. After the Model S, the†Porsche Boxster†sports car came in second place with a score of 95. The†Porsche 911†sports car and†Chevrolet Volt, made by General Motors Co, both got a 91. Consumer Reports†did not mention the safety probe or fires in the magazine article and press release discussing the results of the survey, which was conducted in the spring. The survey will be published in its January issue, which comes out next week. It draws from 350,000 responses from subscribers who had bought a car in the last few years.†Consumer Reports†asked if they would buy that same model again. Tesla shares have fallen about 37 percent since October 1. Shares in the company fell 3.9 percent to close at $121.11 on the Nasdaq on Wednesday. (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman; Editing by Anand Basu)
David Kostin, Goldman Sachs' top equity strategist, just published his 2014 outlook for stocks. His report also included his lofty prediction for the S&amp;P 500 through 2016. Specifically, Kostin sees the S&amp;P 500 rising 6% to 1,900 by the end of 2014, 17% to 2,100 by the end of 2015, and 23% to 2,200 by the end of 2016. "Our [2014] return forecast reflects rising, albeit decelerating, profit growth and a slightly lower P/E multiple," said Kostin. "The linchpin of our market forecast is growth ñ in the economy, sales, and earnings. We expect 3.6% global economic growth. The US will advance at a 3% pace while inflation remains contained at 1.4%. China, Japan, and even Europe will all grow, expanding GDP by 7.8%, 1.6%, and 1.5%, respectively. Sales and earnings growth are a direct result of economic activity. We expect revenue growth of 5% (ex-Financials and Utilities) and overall EPS growth of 8% in 2014. Growth in these metrics should continue in 2015, 2016, and 2017." Interestingly, this†bullish forecast fits surprisingly well with the long-term bearish forecast of GMO's Jeremy Grantham. "My personal guess is that the U.S. market, especially the non-blue chips, will work its way higher, perhaps by 20% to 30% in the next year or, more likely, two years, with the rest of the world including emerging market equities covering even more ground in at least a partial catch-up," wrote Grantham in his Q3 letter. Grantham's 20% gain in two years is†very close to Kostin's 17% gain by the end of 2015. But that's where the similarities end. "And then we will have the third in the series of serious market busts since 1999 and presumably Greenspan, Bernanke, Yellen, et al. will rest happy, for surely they must expect something like this outcome given their experience," he added. "And we the people, of course, will get what we deserve." For those who already think stocks look frothy, check out this chart from Goldman forecasting the path of the S&amp;P 500 through 2016. Goldman Sachs
Wikimedia CommonsFor the most part, October was a pretty good month for the global economy.†Most economic reports reflected resilience despite elevated political uncertainty and a lengthy government shutdown in the world's largest economy: the U.S. "Did the consumer even realize there was a federal government shutdown?" asked Mitsubishi economist Chris Rupkey after Wednesday's extraordinary October retail sales report. However, the early November readings on the economy are looking a bit jittery. First, we just learned that China's HSBC Flash manufacturing PMI missed expectations and fell to a two-month low of 50.4 in November from 50.9 in October, signaling a significant deceleration in growth. "Although the headline figure of 50.4 still indicated expansion, we caution that the acceleration trend of activity growth is reaching its end," warned Societe Generale economist Wei Yao. Then there was the euro zone, whose Flash Composite Output Index fell to 51.5 in November from 51.9 in October. Economists were expecting a reading of 52.0. ìAny improvements were largely confined to Germany, where the PMI has notched up the best growth since mid-2011 so far in the fourth quarter, signaling a 0.5% increase in GDP," said Markit economist Chris Williamson. France, on the other hand, showed further signs of being the sick man of Europe<U+201F> with output showing a renewed decline and raising the risk that GDP could fall again in the fourth quarter, constituting a renewed recession. Meanwhile growth outside the big two<U+201F> slowed to near-stagnation.î Later today, we'll get the U.S. Flash PMI report. Let's hope this doesn't turn into a trifecta of bad news.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonA paramilitary policeman standing guard is silhouetted on a large screen showing propaganda slogans on Tiananmen square next to the Great Hall of the People, where the closing ceremony of the Chinese Communist Party plenum is going to be held on Tuesday, in Beijing, November 11, 2013. In recent months, China has quashed fears that the economy was slowing and heading for a hard landing. However, China's November HSBC manufacturing flash PMI reminds us that the country's growth outlook remains uncertain. The headline PMI fell to a two-month low of 50.4 from 50.9 in October. Economists were looking for a reading of 50.8. This was the first decline in five months. "The optimism unleashed by Chinaís reform plan is today hammered by the reality of weaker economic data," said Societe Generale economist Wei Yao. "Although the headline figure of 50.4 still indicated expansion, we caution that the acceleration trend of activity growth is reaching its end," added Yao. The final HSBC PMI as well as the official PMI comes at the end of this month.
MarkitThe euro zone's Flash Composite Output Index fell to 51.5 in November from 51.9 in October. This signals a deceleration in growth. Economists were expecting a reading of 52.0. The services index fell to a three-month low of 50.9 and the manufacturing PMI output index fell to a two-month low of 52.8. But the manufacturing PMI index climbed to a 29-month high of 51.3. Here's Markit economist Chris Williamson: ‚ÄúSome encouragement must be gleaned from the PMI signalling expansion of the eurozone economy for a fifth successive month in November, but the average reading over the fourth quarter so far is signalling a very modest 0.2% expansion of GDP across the region, and it looks like momentum is being lost again. "The fall in the PMI for a second successive month suggests that the ECB was correct to cut interest rates to a record low at its last meeting, and the further loss of growth momentum will raise calls for policymakers to do more to prevent the eurozone from slipping back into another recession. ‚ÄúAttention will also be focused on the signs that deflationary forces may be gathering. Prices charged for goods and services fell at a faster rate in November, despite firms‚Äü input costs rising at the steepest clip for over a year. ‚ÄúAny improvements were largely confined to Germany, where the PMI has notched up the best growth since mid-2011 so far in the fourth quarter, signalling a 0.5% increase in GDP. France, on the other hand, showed further signs of being the ‚Äûsick man of Europe‚Äü with output showing a renewed decline and raising the risk that GDP could fall again in the fourth quarter, constituting a renewed recession. Meanwhile growth outside the ‚Äûbig two‚Äü slowed to near-stagnation.‚Äù Markets continue to be in the red across Europe.
MarkitGermany's Flash Composite Output Index jumped to a 10-month high of 54.3 from 53.2 in October. The services index jumped to a 9-month high of 54.5 from 52.9, the manufacturing PMI climbed to a 29-month high of 52.5 from 54.5, and the manufacturing output index increased to a 3-month high of 54.0. ‚ÄúNovember‚Äôs survey suggests that the German economy has built up a head of steam through the final quarter of 2013 and is well on track to achieve growth of close to 0.5% for the calendar year," said Markit's Tim Moore. "There are also signs that solid growth momentum should be sustained over the months ahead, as new business received by private sector firms increased at the steepest pace for almost two-and-a-half years. ‚ÄúBacklogs of work were accumulated across the German economy to the greatest degree since mid-2011, providing encouragement that improvements in investment spending and job creation will follow in the wake of the upturn in business conditions.‚Äù Markets across Europe are in the red.
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets are a bit lower early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100, France's CAC 40, and Germany's Dax are all down by just under 1%. Today's losses follow a negative trading session in the U.S.¬† Markets turn lower after the Federal Reserve published its latest FOMC minutes, which suggested a tapering of quantitative easing could begin in one of the next few FOMC meetings. Earlier, we learned that France's private sector economy may have contracted in November. The Flash France Composite Output Index sank to¬† 48.5 from 50. 5 in October. "Renewed weakness was evident across both services and manufacturing, and the poor set of figures underline the fragility of the economy in the face of a persistently anaemic demand environment," noted Markit economist Jack Kennedy. "Although remaining above the levels seen in the first half of the year, PMI data highlight the risk of a return to recession for France in Q4 following the - 0.1% fall in GDP during Q3.‚Äù"
MarkitFrance's Flash Composite Output Index fell to a† five-month low of 48.5 in November from 50.5 in October. Any reading below 50 signals contraction. The services index fell to a 4-month low of 48.8 from 50.9, the manufacturing output index fell to a 6-month low of 47.2 from 49.0, and the manufacturing PMI fell to a 6-month low of 47.8 from 49.1. "Novemberís Flash France PMI data highlight a disappointing slide in activity following two months of marginal growth," said Markit econmist Jack Kennedy. "Renewed weakness was evident across both services and manufacturing, and the poor set of figures underline the fragility of the economy in the face of a persistently anaemic demand environment. Although remaining above the levels seen in the first half of the year, PMI data highlight the risk of a return to recession for France in Q4 following the - 0.1% fall in GDP during Q3."
Forget Bitcoin ATMs. The oft-misunderstood digital currency is going even more mainstream. The University of Nicosia in Cyprus announced they would be accepting Bitcoin as a form of payment for tuition, making them the first accredited institution in the world to accept the cryptocurrency. Geekwire has more: This is an interesting move on UNic‚Äôs part to accept Bitcoin ‚Äî after all, the volatility of the currency is at an all-time high right now. But a university spokesperson told GeekWire that it plans on converting students‚Äô Bitcoin immediately to Euros. ‚ÄúThe intention of this initiative is to ease transmission difficulties for certain students and to build our own practical knowledge about this field, not to engage in currency speculation,‚Äù the spokesperson said. Established in 1980, the private university is located in the capital of Cyprus, and has¬†roughly 5,000 students.¬† "Digital currency will create more efficient services and will serve as a mechanism for spreading financial services to under-banked regions of the world," Dr. Christos Vlachos, the school's CFO, said in a statement. "In this light, we consider it appropriate that we implement digital currency as a method of payment across all our institutions in all cities and countries of our operations.‚Äù Bitcoin has been on an insane rollercoaster over the past week. Two days ago, the price was up around $900, but this morning¬†it crashed all the way to $460.
