Gold Money Foundation / YouTubeFelix ZulaufThe S&amp;P 500 ended the week at yet another all-time record high. Some have tried to compare the current peak to the stock market tops we've seen in 2000 and 2007. However, many -- like Reformed Broker Josh Brown -- are quick to remind everyone that the comparisons stop with nominal price.† Relative to earnings, stocks are clearly much more reasonably priced than they were before the last two market crashes. This is not to say that there aren't things we should worry about. "I am troubled to see that forward earnings has been stuck around its record high of $115 for the past nine weeks," wrote market guru Ed Yardeni earlier this week. "This is the measure of earnings that I believe drives the market." Indeed, this earnings growth stagnation amid rising stock prices have caused valuations to become less attractive. In a piece for Ita˙ BBA titled "Developing Euphoria," hedge fund manager Felix Zulauf raises similar concerns.† Interestingly, he draws comparisons between the stock market and the gold market.† Here's an excerpt (emphasis added): The problem with currently rising equity markets is not rising prices but the lack of fundamental improvement. Stock prices are driven primarily by this lack of alternative investment opportunities and the growing belief that central banksí money printing can and will generate attractive investment returns for equity investors for a long time despite the lack of supporting fundamentals in the real economy. That is a risky assumption, but as long as rising trends remain intact, nobody worries. In fact, the momentum of the leading equity market indices (Japan, the U.S., Germany and Switzerland to name some) is very powerful and has the potential to carry further, potentially even into a buying climax. Similarities to the gold price in spring 2011 come to mind. At that time, the conviction that gold could only go one way because inflation will eventually rise was as extreme as is now the case for equities. Once equity markets discover the emperor has no clothes, they could face a quick and painful adjustment to bring markets in line again with fundamentals. For the gold market it was when investors realized there was no rise in CPI inflation or the assumption that systemic risks are declining. It is true that equities look attractive relative to fixed-income alternatives from a valuation point of view, when depressed fixed-income yields are compared to dividend yields or earnings yields (reciprocal of P/E ratios). Those comparisons are all fine as long as economies do not fall back into a recession and earnings stay at least stable. As investors are not expecting a recession, they still believe equities are by far the best place to be, and they act accordingly. Thatís why we might see an end to this cycle with a bang (buying climax) and not a whimper (conventional broadening cycle top). Simply put, gold exploded higher amid fears of liquidity-driven rampant inflation.† In a similar sense, stocks are currently in rally mode on expectations that an improving economy will eventually translate into earnings growth. With inflation at bay, the world watched the gold market meltdown this year. In his piece, Zulauf also offers his take on austerity, debt, bonds, gold, and Japan.† He also provides a lengthy perspective on currencies. Read "Developing Euphoria," at Itau.com.br.
Brett Gundlock, ReutersRob Ford: I'm not a crackhead.TORONTO†(Reuters) -†Toronto†Mayor†Rob Ford, a target of criticism for his often unconventional conduct, on Friday denied media allegations that he had been caught on video smoking crack cocaine. "Absolutely not true," Ford told reporters gathered outside his west†Toronto†house, before driving off in his SUV. Reporters for†the Toronto Star†and†Gawker Media†said late on Thursday they had watched a cellphone video that appears to show Ford smoking crack, although both news outlets said they had declined to pay the $100,000 price asked by the tipsters, people that†the Star†said were involved in the†Toronto†drug trade. Reuters could not confirm the existence of the video and it is not clear what impact the allegations will have on Ford's position as mayor of†Canada's largest city. The mayor still has an approval rating of around 50 percent despite a series of negative headlines, although that's down from 70 percent in the year after he took power, according to Forum Research. A†Toronto Police†spokesman said police are "closely monitoring the situation." Ford's lawyer,†Dennis Morris, did not return Reuters' requests for comment. "We're just trying to see whether or not such a video exists and whether or not any video has been doctored or altered," Morris told†the Toronto Sun†newspaper. Asked if Ford planned legal action, Morris said it is at the "bottom rung of the ladder" now. Gawker is asking for donations in what it has labeled a "Crackstarter" campaign to raise $200,000 to buy the video and post it online. It says it has already raised $28,000. Ford, 43, was elected in 2010 on a promise to "stop the gravy train"†at City Hall. But he has frequently attracted unfavorable news coverage, including for a conflict of interest case that almost cost him his job, a photograph of him reading documents while driving on the freeway, and an altercation with a reporter on a patch of land outside his house. At City Hall†on Friday, Ford initially brushed past reporters, only to return to deliver a very brief statement. "These allegations are ridiculous, another story with respect to†the Toronto Star†going after me," Ford said. "And that's all I've got to say for now." He did not reply when asked if he believed the video was faked. STAR, GAWKER STAND BY STORIES The Star,†Canada's largest circulation newspaper, said it stands by its reporting and the story is one piece of a broader investigative report that it has been working on for months. "This isn't a story that we're going to report lightly," said†Robyn Doolittle, one of two†Toronto Star†reporters who said they had watched the video three times. She added: "The Toronto Star†has a high bar that we always make sure we meet before we run something, especially when it comes to this mayor." Doolittle said the paper never intended to pay for the video but did engage in discussions about "numbers" in an attempt to see it. She said the men trying to sell the video first wanted C$1 million ($975,000) but then dropped the price to C$100,000. Ford and his older brother Doug, a city councilor who often speaks on Ford's behalf, have a mostly hostile relationship with†Toronto's news media, and a particularly rocky relationship with†the Star. Gawker, first to publish the cocaine allegations, did so after the existence of the video began to leak out, said the site's editor-in-chief,†John Cook. "I am confident that I saw†Rob Ford†smoking crack in that video," Cook said. Speaking early on Friday, Deputy Mayor†Doug Holyday, told reporters he stands by the mayor. "Certainly, at this point, we all know that videos can be altered and we certainly know that drug dealers can't be trusted," he said at†Toronto City Hall. CONTROVERSY This is hardly the first controversy for Ford, who has drawn criticism for skipping city council meetings to coach high-school football and engaging in a confrontation outside his home with a reporter. He was briefly ordered out of office in 2012 after he was found guilty of conflict of interest, but won an appeal and was allowed to finish his four-year term. Just two months ago,†the Star†reported that†Toronto City†Councilor†Paul Ainslie†had asked Ford to leave a charity function after several people complained the mayor was impaired. Ford called that story an "outright lie". These controversies have eaten into Ford's popularity, although he still enjoys support from significant chunk of the population, mostly in†Toronto's suburbs. (Editing by Janet Guttsman, Ciro Scotti and Tim Dobbyn)
Bethany Clarke/Getty ImagesWICHITA, Kansas (Reuters) - Sometime on Sunday morning, a Pennsylvania high school student will be presented with the keys to a black Honda Civic just for going to a party after the school's annual prom dance. In Roanoke, Virginia, one student will drive away next month with a new car and two others will get iPads. At a high school outside Dallas, two students received $500 college scholarships. Around the country parents, schools and civic organizations are using extravagant door prizes to encourage high school students to attend supervised, alcohol-free events after their annual high school proms in a bid to keep them away from wild private parties. "Proms are a lot like a rite of passage in America," said Sherry Hamby, research professor of psychology at Sewanee: The University of the South in Tennessee. "It signals your maturity as a sexual person. Often it's the first time that they might go out to dinner independently." Supervised after-prom events have been around for years, but they are becoming more elaborate, and organizers are offering expensive goodies to get teenagers' attention. Some are organized by parents, others by non-profit groups. The prizes are sometimes provided by local businesses, as with the car in Pennsylvania. Others are purchased through parent-led fundraising. Derby High School in Derby, Kansas, outside Wichita, booked an entire amusement park for its after-prom party. The committee hired bus drivers to shuttle students back and forth, organized fundraisers and gathered prizes. "This is so great. It gives kids something to do besides bad stuff. It gives them a place to go," said Victoria Balevre, 17, a junior at Derby High School who attended the amusement park party on April 20. TOUGH SELL The high school prom isn't just a rite of passage, it's an expensive rite of passage. According to a survey by credit-card company Visa, the average teenager spends more than $1,000 on prom for things such as a dress or tuxedo, shoes, jewelry, hair styling, manicures, tickets to the event, dinner out and renting a limousine. Organizers of the supervised after-prom parties concede it can be tough to impress kids already spending big dollars on proms. The Roanoke Area Youth Substance Abuse Coalition in Roanoke, Virginia, holds a "grand finale party" on June 1. Each of the area's high schools can send four students who have attended an after-prom party to this special after-after-prom party." Two students will win an iPad, and one will drive away in a 2013 Nissan Juke. "Research shows that if they stay to the end of the after-prom party, they are more likely to be alcohol- and drug-free," said Kathy Sullivan, the director of the Roanoke group. In addition to the $500 scholarships, Allen High School in Allen, Texas, outside Dallas, gave away eight $250 dollar scholarships, several computers, a party for 20 at a local barbecue restaurant and tickets to a Texas Rangers baseball game. For the past six years, Unionville High School in Unionville, Pennsylvania, has given away a high-quality used car donated by a local dealership. "The prizes definitely are a draw for people to come," said Trish Hawkins, a volunteer organizer for Allen High School's after-prom event. The number of students who attend the Heights High School After Prom Party in Wichita, Kansas, has gradually increased in the last few years. More than 400 attended this year, said Lisa Bahner, a parent volunteer who worked at this year's prom. At the Johnson City, New York, High School after prom-party, organizers will give away microwaves, laptops and television sets. Each attendee is given a suitcase with $100 worth of merchandise. Ninety percent of eligible students attend, said Kathleen Neiss, a parent and volunteer organizer. "We try to fill each suitcase with a T-shirt and other items they might need in college," Neiss said. Parents and organizers point to anecdotal evidence that the supervised after-prom events have reduced the number of traffic accidents on prom nights. "Ever since we started these nine years ago, there have been no reported accidents on prom night," said Candy Gaff, an after-prom organizer at the Coalition for a Drug Free Dale County in Alabama. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration data shows the number of people killed in teen-related car crashes during the months of April and May, when most proms take place, has steadily decreased to 589 in 2011, the latest year available, from 1,017 in 2007. 'TOO CONTROLLED' While the number of supervised after-parties has expanded, many communities do not organize such events. And even in towns with supervised after-parties, some students prefer private parties. Shelby Harmon, 17, of Orange, California, picked out a purple dress with diamond sparkles, had her hair styled and got a manicure and pedicure before her May 11 prom. She and 49 friends rode to the party on a party bus. "We took the bus to dinner and then the dance and then we drove around," Shelby said. "It was a lot of fun." Her community does not offer a supervised after-prom event. Instead, her group went to a beach house after the prom to continue partying. Derrick Woulard, 19, of Hinesville, Georgia, who last year attended school near the American military base in Vilseck, Germany, went to a private party after prom and said if there had been a parent-run party he would not have attended. "I feel like it would be too controlled," Woulard said. "My party was probably more fun." Controlling is exactly what parents are trying to do wit the after-parties. For some, prom brings back scary thoughts of their own rite of passage in high school. "I know what I did after my prom, and I certainly don't want my kids doing that," New York parent Neiss said. "This party keeps them off the streets and out of trouble." (Reporting By Alice Mannette; Editing by Greg McCune and Douglas Royalty)
Alyson Shontell/Business Insider HSBC‚Äôs chief global economist has written a compelling but dark account of the challenges facing the West. Philip Aldrick considers the chilling claims. Bleak does not begin to describe the latest tome on the economic crisis by Stephen King, the HSBC chief global economist who appropriately shares a name with the best-selling horror writer. When the Money Runs Out is the economic equivalent of post-apocalyptic fiction, charting ‚Äúthe end of Western affluence‚Äù, and gives the author of The Shining a run for his money when it comes to filling readers with dread. Published this week, the chapter headings alone are enough to make you tremble; The Pain of Stagnation, From Economic Disappointment to Political Instability, Dystopia. If anyone in Britain was labouring under the misapprehension that 0.3pc GDP growth in the first quarter of the year and signs of a manufacturing revival were something to cheer ‚Äì and that includes the other King, Bank of England Governor Sir Mervyn ‚Äì HSBC‚Äôs King puts them right. The TelegraphThose aren‚Äôt green shoots, they are ‚Äúbumps along bottom‚Äù. The country has just completed one ‚Äúlost decade‚Äù, measured on growth per person, he says, and is about to enter a second. King is what his friends describe as a ‚Äúhappy pessimist‚Äù. It‚Äôs easy to see why. The piano-playing 49-year-old‚Äôs demeanour is as perky as his electric-shock hair. But his message is resolutely sackcloth and ashes. His prescription for the UK, like much of the West, is painful reform, and lots of it. Like all determined pessimists, though, King rejects the label. ‚ÄúI would call myself a realist who doesn‚Äôt peddle quick-fix solutions that won‚Äôt work,‚Äù he says. Those quick-fix fantasists, he claims, come from both sides of the austerity versus stimulus debate that dominates the current economic conversation. The mistake they make, he says with unapologetic gloom, is believing there is a route back to robust growth. ‚ÄúThe problem with the merchants of stimulus and the merchants of austerity is that the majority have the same underlying belief that the economy is going to rebound rather quickly. ‚ÄúThey just have very different views of how to get there. My concern is that both those sets of beliefs are a bit too optimistic about the nature and speed of the recovery.‚Äù Britain‚Äôs big problem, which it shares with the rest of the West, is that it will not be able to grow at a pace that will allow it to afford the commitments made to its people, King says. That simple observation is at the heart of his warning about the decline lying in store for the world‚Äôs advanced nations. ‚ÄúWhat if our financial wealth has been accumulated on the back of a delusion? What if political promises ‚Äì even those made in good faith ‚Äì can no longer be met? How should we cope with the subsequent disappointment?‚Äù he asks rhetorically. His answers are uncomfortable ones. Promises will have to be broken and expectations lowered. Weak growth will mean less prosperity to go round. People will be stripped of their ‚Äúentitlements‚Äù. An introverted politics of envy will stir, resulting in pressure for greater equality and an attack on the rich. Society may fray as protectionism replaces globalisation and an ugly xenophobia rears up again. It will be a time for bold, honest politics, King says. Sadly, history is littered with tales of the reverse. King is not alone in his view that Britain will grow more slowly than in the past. Sir John Gieve, a former deputy governor of the Bank, has suggested a sustainable rate of growth in the UK may now be 1.25pc ‚Äì half the pre-crisis level. Andrew Sentance, a former member of the Bank‚Äôs rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee, has called weak growth the ‚Äúnew normal‚Äù. In hailing ‚Äúa modest and sustained recovery‚Äù last week, even Sir Mervyn warned that the economy would remain ‚Äúweak by historic standards‚Äù. Britain, to use the Chancellor‚Äôs words in a speech to the CBI last Wednesday, is still grappling with the ‚Äúworst economic inheritance any modern government has faced‚Äù. For King, the fervent belief that the UK will somehow return to 2pc to 2.3pc annual growth is ‚Äúan inappropriate extrapolation of past trends‚Äù. He goes so far as to question whether official statistics for the past decade told the real story: ‚ÄúThe underlying growth rate was soft‚Äù and was masked by a debt binge of unprecedented proportions. Britain may be growing again, just not fast enough to pay for the accumulated promises of the past. For King, the big question is: how does the country deal with the sense of decline as those entitlements are withdrawn? Difficult decisions are now unavoidable. George Osborne may believe he has already faced up to the hard truths ‚Äì with his austerity programme and reforms such as raising the retirement age ‚Äì but he has barely scratched the surface. ‚ÄúThe need for some kind of reform is that much greater than has been admitted so far,‚Äù King argues. Even on official forecasts for UK growth, which he says are ‚Äúoptimistic‚Äù, there is ‚Äúa permanent loss in activity relative to what people had assumed‚Äù. ‚ÄúThe problem arises when you discover that, out of the total sum of income, there are commitments that have to be met. In which case there is less money to spend on other areas.‚Äù The ring-fenced budgets are a clear example. Health, pensions, education and overseas aid are protected, which means other departments face excessively deep cuts. So much so, in fact, that reports last week suggested angry ministers have found less than a quarter of the ¬£11.5bn savings demanded of them. The same holds for the economy as a whole, King says. ‚ÄúWhat happens is that because people have already decided to spend their future income before it arrives, then you have a social and political problem.‚Äù In suitably apocalyptic terms, he draws comparisons with the run-up to the French Revolution, the Peasants‚Äô Revolt of 1381, and the austerity of the 1920s. As entitlements are withdrawn ‚Äì and King lumps ‚Äúexecutive pay‚Äù and bankers‚Äô bonuses alongside welfare dependency ‚Äì the country will face social upheaval. ‚ÄúThe US and UK have very high levels of income inequality and the problem in stagnant economies is that the only way you can make the majority better off is to seize funds from the minority, which is where you get into wealth taxes,‚Äù he says. ‚ÄúThat takes you back to problems of the late 1960s and 1970s. You get into a fight over the limited resources, as resources aren‚Äôt growing enough.‚Äù From there, he warns, the economy can quickly spiral downwards as large redistribution ‚Äútends to dampen down entrepreneurial and creative risk taking‚Äù. There is no escaping the denouement, King says. But we can ‚Äúextend and pretend‚Äù, as they say in high finance. The economic version has been quantitative easing (QE) and near-zero interest rates. To delay the inevitable, Western nations have become ‚Äústimulus junkies‚Äù, King warns. ‚ÄúThese policies started off as being the equivalent of powerful antibiotics to make the patient better quickly. They‚Äôve morphed into addictive painkillers. We‚Äôre on them and we don‚Äôt really want to face the cold turkey of coming off those painkillers. But as with many painkillers there are side-effects.‚Äù King is in no doubt that QE saved the West from a great depression. But the longer it has gone on, the more distorting its effect has become. Money printing now has more impact on ‚Äúwealth redistribution than lifting the economy‚Äù, he argues. By contributing to higher inflation, it has ‚Äúhelped to squeeze real wages but has benefited those who are asset rich‚Äù. In other words, QE has acted like a ‚Äúregressive tax‚Äù ‚Äì punishing the poor and enriching the wealthy. It has also damaged business investment by punching a deeper hole in struggling pension schemes. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre in this bizarre situation where teachers are being fired to pay for the pensions of teachers who are no longer working,‚Äù he observes. Both of King‚Äôs points have been conceded by the Bank, though in less inflammatory terms. So, why persist with QE? ‚ÄúStimulus policies have allowed politicians to live in a fantasy world,‚Äù he explains. ‚ÄúQE allows governments to live with a high level of debt.‚Äù King‚Äôs analysis of the West‚Äôs problems is uncompromising. But he does find room for some possible solutions. Unfortunately, ‚Äúnone of them is particularly attractive‚Äù, he admits. First, the UK needs growth. And greater equality could help. ‚ÄúThis is not a party political point,‚Äù King says. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs an economic one. The financially asset-rich have a lower propensity to consume.‚Äù The argument has it that the rich tuck money away in Asian tracker funds that would otherwise have been spent down the shops ‚Äì in the real economy ‚Äì by the less well-off. It is a point advocated by those who have risen to the top. Sir Martin Sorrell, WPP chief executive, has warned: ‚ÄúThe concentration of wealth is a serious issue.‚Äù An extension of the argument is King‚Äôs call for ‚Äúsome kind of social contract‚Äù to help younger generations. At present, policy is set to ‚Äúprotect things for the baby boomers‚Äù ‚Äì a group he calls in his book ‚Äúthe selfish generation‚Äù that ‚Äúhad their cake and made sure they could eat it, too‚Äù. Protecting their entitlements strips the country of ‚Äúinvestment for tomorrow‚Äù, he says. Commitments on infrastructure and education are vital, even if it means tearing down the ring-fence around health and certain pensioner benefits. It is in the boomers‚Äô own interests, he claims. If all the economic restructuring is lumped on the young in higher taxes and worse public services, there will be a ‚Äúmass exodus‚Äù that will make it even harder to keep the boomers in clover. An analysis by the respected Institute for Fiscal Studies shows that ‚Äúpensioner households‚Äù have been least affected by austerity while working-age ‚Äúhouseholds with children‚Äù are hardest hit. King, by the way, is a post-boomer himself, at 49. Boosting UK exports is also vital, he says. A recovery in the eurozone would do wonders, but in the fast-growing emerging markets Britain has a lot of work to do. To illustrate his point, King recounts an exchange with a Chinese colleague on one of his world tours. Asked for her impression of UK trade, she said: ‚ÄúWhat do you export?‚Äù King quipped: ‚ÄúIt looks like we have an image problem.‚Äù In essence, his prescription is Osborne‚Äôs strategy ‚Äì reformed and on steroids. One of King‚Äôs more radical proposals is to move the Bank to a nominal GDP target, as first floated last year by the incoming Governor, Mark Carney, a man hand-picked by the Chancellor. As any economist will testify, getting nominal growth going is vital if a heavily indebted country ‚Äì like the UK ‚Äì is to escape its debts, even if a large slug of that growth is simply inflation. Which explains why King would not unwind QE despite his objection to its ‚Äúside-effects‚Äù. ‚ÄúOne tried and tested mechanism [of reducing debt] is inflation, as it redistributes from creditors to debtors,‚Äù he says. QE keeps government borrowing costs below inflation, ensuring that it‚Äôs only the creditors who suffer. It‚Äôs what‚Äôs known as ‚Äúfinancial repression‚Äù. The catch-22, though, is that inflation will depress household incomes, which will lower growth. Resolving that will be one of Carney‚Äôs many conundrums, King says. And he does not envy the Canadian‚Äôs task. The latest big hope for monetary policy is Carney‚Äôs idea of ‚Äúguidance‚Äù ‚Äì a promise to keep rates low until unemployment or some other measure has hit a pre-defined level. But, with rates already expected to be unchanged until late 2016, King says ‚Äúit‚Äôs not likely to have much of an impact‚Äù. Carney‚Äôs bigger problem, he believes, is that ‚Äúhe‚Äôs managed to end up with this image of being like a monetary superman‚Äù. ‚ÄúAnd when he gets to Britain he may discover there are large amounts of kryptonite that will actually reduce his powers quite significantly.‚Äù Carney has already acknowledged he‚Äôs coming to where the ‚Äúchallenges are greatest‚Äù. And, in the early bloom of economic optimism, King‚Äôs clear-sighted and highly readable book is a timely reminder of just how challenging Britain‚Äôs problems still are. 
REUTERS/Yuri GripasFor all the talk of how it's a waste to study American Literature or other majors with limited job prospects, even the Chairman of the Federal Reserve acknowledges a value to cultural pursuits. Ben Bernanke ended his commencement speech at Bard College at Simon's Rock with the following remark: [W]hile I have emphasized technological and scientific advances today, it is important to remember that the arts and humanities facilitate new and creative thinking as well, while helping us to draw meaning that goes beyond the purely material aspects of our lives. From his perspective, America needs more than just engineers, scientists, and doctors.¬†It also needs¬†actors, writers, teachers, and others who inspire creativity. This role may be more important than ever. Bernanke explains in the same speech that America could be entering a period of slower growth. The industrial revolution is ending, while the information technology revolution may not generate as much growth as we have seen in the past.¬†Success in this new economy will require "constant adaptation and creativity."¬†Arts and humanities "facilitate new and creative thinking" and therefore play a fundamental economic role. The role of "helping us to draw meaning that goes beyond the purely material aspects of our lives" may be of growing importance too. After all in a period of slower economic growth, Americans will need to find meaning in more than just work. Call it learning to cope with underemployment or learning to enjoy the wonderful modern world, English Majors can help fill this need.
The Powerball jackpot has hit $600 million, passing the point where people who don't typically play the lottery decide to jump in, shell out a few dollars, and try their luck on an infinitesimally small opportunity to join the 1% One of the most interesting ways to look at this is through the statistical concept of expected value. How much is it worth to play, given the estimated winnings and initial up front costs? If we multiply the probability and payout of each possible prize, and sum that for all events, we get the expected value of playing the game.¬† When we look at a very basic expected value calculation for the Powerball lottery, we notice that playing the game is expected to be worth $1.78, given an estimated $3.78 payout on each ticket and a $2.00 investment: Walter Hickey / BI However, there are a couple things to keep in mind. First, notice that 90% of the expected value is derived from the outrageously high jackpot.¬† Next, there are a few assumptions in this estimate that don't mimic reality. So let's dissect these probabilities.¬† The first one ‚Äî the multiple winners problem ‚Äî is by far the most interesting.¬† When there is more than one winner, the value of the jackpot decreases because the winnings are split: Walter Hickey / BI The probability there is more than one winner is directly related ¬†to the number of tickets in play. The more tickets that are in play, the more winners that are likely.¬† Here's how were able to calculate the probability of the number of jackpot winners. We use the binomial distribution: Where 'n' is the number of people playing in the lottery And 'k' is the number of winners¬† While 'p' is the probability of winning the jackpot: The probability 'n' out of 'k' people win ¬†=¬† P(n,k,p) = (n!)/[k!(n-k)!] x pk x ¬†(1-p)n-k ¬†If that's too complicated, don't worry. Here's the result for various values of¬†the number of winners (k) at various quantities of tickets (n) sold: Walter Hickey / BI Here's a better way to look at it. You'll notice that it's very likely as more and more tickets are sold that there is more than one winner: Walter Hickey / BI So it's really important that we account for this when calculating expected value. When 3,000 tickets are sold every minute, the chances for multiple winners are quite good and make a major impact on expected value. The more tickets that are sold, the higher the probability of multiple winners. The higher the probability of multiple winners, the higher the probability of a jackpot split. The¬†higher the probability of a jackpot split, the lower the expected value of the jackpot for an individual ticket holder. Since almost the entire expected value is derived from the jackpot, splitting the jackpot multiple ways is a big issue.¬† Here's what the expected value of playing Powerball looks like as the number of tickets sold rises: Walter Hickey / BI This decline is the direct result of a rising probability of a winnings split. Notice how at 1 player, the expected value is equal to our original calculation.  That's because it assumes there is no possibility of multiple winners at that point.  It's the idea that a man walks up to you, offers you these odds, and you get the payout.  As the number of players rise, the probability a winner will have to share their winnings rises.  So depending on how many people participate in the lottery, you can find out your expected winnings.¬† Now let's look at the expected value of a lottery ticket given that there's the possibility for multiple winners and you decide to take all the money up front ‚Äî a $378.9 million check instead of $600 million over time. It's potentially split between winners.¬† Here's how that looks: Walter Hickey / BI Once more than 200,000,000 tickets get sold, it's game over. Assuming a split check taken immediately, you're cooked once more than 200 million tickets are sold.¬† Finally, we've got to incorporate the tax man's impact on your winnings. As a warning, it's not going to be pretty.¬† Assuming an instantaneously awarded check for winnings, you're going to be in the top bracket no matter what. Even assuming that the person makes no money, applying the marginal tax rate to the check ‚Äî all while assuming multiple winners are possible ‚Äî makes this picture look even worse: Walter Hickey / BI So what's the moral of the story? Buying a Powerball ticket as an investment makes sense, as long as you only look at the simple case. When you analyze it deeply, you'll see that even after you account for multiple winners and potential split jackpots, it's still worth it, just not as drastically.¬† But once you consider taking all the money up front rather than the annuity, you're going to see a problem. After 200 million bought tickets, you get a negative expected value, and it stops being worth it.¬† Then, after you consider the federal government fleecing you with a 39.6% top tax rate ‚Äî welcome to the 1%, we hope you enjoyed your stay ‚Äî it's pretty obviously not worth it.¬† And we didn't even look at state income taxes.¬† So is it worth it to pay the lottery? That depends. If it's worth it to spend $2 on several days of wishful thinking, there's nothing stopping you from playing. While it's rarely profitable overall, it's fun to gamble, that's why people do it.¬† But don't look to math for a thumbs up.¬†
Georgetown Law SchoolCelia RoadyWashington tax lawyer Celia Roady acknowledged that at the behest of the IRS, she asked a question at a May 10 conference that would ignite the controversy over inappropriate targeting of conservative groups. Four days before a damning Inspector General's report was due to be released, the IRS wanted to get out ahead and potentially defuse some of the backlash.† Roady serves on the IRS Advisory Committee on Tax-Exempt and Government Entities. She†asked the planted question to Lois Lerner, the IRS' director of the tax-exempt division. Within minutes, it sparked shock and a firestorm that the IRS had revealed it inappropriately targeted certain groups, particularly with the words "Tea Party" and "patriot" in their title. Morgan, Lewis &amp; Bockius, the firm that employs Roady, released a statement on her behalf explaining her role in asking the question: ìOn May 9, I received a call from Lois Lerner, who told me that she wanted to address an issue after her prepared remarks at the ABA Tax Sectionís Exempt Organizations Committee Meeting, and asked if I would pose a question to her after her remarks.† I agreed to do so, and she then gave me the question that I asked at the meeting the next day. We had no discussion thereafter on the topic of the question, nor had we spoken about any of this before I received her call. She did not tell me, and I did not know, how she would answer the question.î Outgoing Acting IRS Commissioner Steven Miller confirmed during testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee on Friday that the question had been planted. That led to intense questioning from members of Congress, who wondered why Lerner did not reveal the news during testimony before the committee on May 8, two days before the conference.† Miller said that the plan had been to simultaneously notify Congress after Lerner's public admission, but acknowledged that "didn't happen." "She has been directly involved in this matter," Rep. Sander Levin (D-Mich.) said on Friday. "She failed to disclose what she knew to this committee, choosing instead to do so at an ABA conference two days later.  "This is wholly unacceptable."
Flickr / FederalReserveBen BernankeBen Bernanke has delivered the commencement speech for this year's graduates of Simon's Rock, a quirky college in Massachusetts. The whole thing is here. It might be the only commencement speech all year to contain footnotes. The speech is about economics, but rather than discuss the short- or medium-term, he talks about the very long-run, and whether things are likely to change a lot over the next 50 years, and what role technology or innovation will play. And in doing that, he looks back at some of the amazing changes from the past centuries and decades. A few of the facts that Bernanke cites: So then Bernanke asks whether the long-run will see massive changes in technology and life improvement like we've seen since 1913 and 1963. Bernanke answers unequivocally yes, based on the fact that the world is seeing more and more innovators and geniuses working together in a way like never before: ...pessimists may be paying too little attention to the strength of the underlying economic and social forces that generate innovation in the modern world. Invention was once the province of the isolated scientist or tinkerer. The transmission of new ideas and the adaptation of the best new insights to commercial uses were slow and erratic. But all of that is changing radically. We live on a planet that is becoming richer and more populous, and in which not only the most advanced economies but also large emerging market nations like China and India increasingly see their economic futures as tied to technological innovation. In that context, the number of trained scientists and engineers is increasing rapidly, as are the resources for research being provided by universities, governments, and the private sector. Moreover, because of the Internet and other advances in communications, collaboration and the exchange of ideas take place at high speed and with little regard for geographic distance. For example, research papers are now disseminated and critiqued almost instantaneously rather than after publication in a journal several years after they are written. And, importantly, as trade and globalization increase the size of the potential market for new products, the possible economic rewards for being first with an innovative product or process are growing rapidly. In short, both humanity's capacity to innovate and the incentives to innovate are greater today than at any other time in history.
REUTERS/Jason ReedSteven Miller, former head of the IRS.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The outgoing head of the U.S. Internal Revenue Service angered Republican lawmakers on Friday by resisting their demands that he identify who at the tax-collection agency had inappropriately targeted conservative groups for extra scrutiny. But during the first hearing into a growing IRS scandal that could preoccupy Washington for months, Republicans did learn that a top official in President Barack Obama's administration knew that the IRS was looking into targeting by the tax agency nearly a year ago. That detail could encourage Republicans' efforts to link the scandal to the White House as the administration faces a series of setbacks that threaten to derail Obama's second-term priorities, which include revamping immigration laws and reaching a budget deal with Republicans. Friday's hearing was dominated by lawmakers' grilling of acting IRS Commissioner Steven Miller, who provided few clear answers while apologizing for the extensive questioning and years-long delays that many conservative groups have experienced after applying for tax-exempt status. Miller, who was fired by Obama on Wednesday, said the overly aggressive scrutiny of such groups was the result of mismanagement, not partisan politics. His comments echoed the findings of a Treasury Department inspector general's report released this week. "I think what happened here is that foolish mistakes were made by people trying to be more efficient," said Miller, who will leave his post next week and be replaced by Daniel Werfel, a budget specialist in the administration. Miller said he did not know who had come up with the idea to single out groups that appeared to be politically conservative for intense reviews of whether they qualified to be tax-exempt. He said that although the added scrutiny was wrong, he did not think that IRS employees had broken any laws. That claim drew the ire of Republicans on the House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee, as did Miller's shrugs when lawmakers pressed him over why he had not told Congress about the probe even though he learned about it a year ago. "This is offensive, to hear this testimony," said Representative Tom Reed, a Republican from New York. A LINK TO THE WHITE HOUSE? The hearing did seem to yield some fruit for Republicans who are trying to cast the targeting of conservative "Tea Party" and "Patriot" groups as a political initiative encouraged by the Obama administration, a claim the White House rejects. Critics have hammered the White House this week on the IRS scandal, its handling of the deadly attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya, and the Justice Department's seizure of phone records of Associated Press journalists in a criminal probe into intelligence leaks. The Treasury Department's internal watchdog, J. Russell George, told the House panel that Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin, an Obama political appointee, learned nearly a year ago that a government watchdog was looking into inappropriate targeting by the IRS. Wolin, the No. 2 official at Treasury, is due to testify next week before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. In a statement, the Treasury Department said it made the probe public last fall in an annual report that listed more than 200 other internal investigations. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew was told about the investigation when he took office in March, the department said, but neither he nor Wolin was told about its findings even as a preliminary version circulated elsewhere within the department. Miller's often-defiant appearance on Friday was unlikely to satisfy Republicans who have accused Obama's Democratic administration of using the machinery of government to target political foes. They also have accused Miller of misleading Congress last year. Miller acknowledged that he learned that IRS investigators were looking into the issue a year ago, but he did not mention the probe to lawmakers until the news became public last week. He said he had not misled lawmakers by keeping quiet about the issue in prior appearances on Capitol Hill. "I was answering the questions that I was asked" by Congress, he told the House committee. Miller appeared to grow irritated over the course of the four-hour hearing, repeatedly interrupting questioners, flashing quizzical looks and shrugging his shoulders. Miller said the IRS has had trouble keeping up with the flood of 70,000 tax-exempt applications it has received in recent years, and asked for money to hire more examiners. Several Republicans responded that the IRS should instead be shrunk. The IRS has seen the number of groups applying for 501(c)4 status nearly double in the wake of January 2010 Supreme Court decision that loosened campaign-finance rules. That status allows groups to keep their donor lists secret while engaging in limited political activity. Political campaigns, by contrast, must make their donor lists public. Several Democrats on the committee said the IRS needed to take a harder look at those applications to ensure that political groups do not exploit the tax code to shroud political activities in secrecy. Miller said the IRS needs clearer guidance from Congress to determine what constitutes political activity. FACEBOOK POSTS, BOOK LISTS The scandal has angered lawmakers in both parties, but Miller's appearance appeared to further inflame Republicans who see it as a symptom of a federal government that has grown too large and is overly intrusive into Americans' lives. Tea Party groups investigated by the IRS say the tax agency made unusually extensive demands, such as asking the groups to provide social-media posts and lists of books that members had read, and tell agents whether any members of the group planned to run for public office in the future. The questioning in some cases took nearly three years, preventing some groups from participating in the 2010 and 2012 elections. The Treasury Department report did not identify individuals in the IRS's Washington headquarters or its Cincinnati field office who were responsible for coming up with the criteria used to single out conservative groups. The watchdog is continuing its investigation. Republicans have vowed to find out who was involved, but Miller did not provide much of a road map. "Who is responsible for targeting these individuals?" asked Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican. "I don't have names for you," Miller responded. Republicans accused him of dodging their questions. "I'm hearing, 'I don't know, I don't remember, I don't recall, I don't believe,'" said Representative Dave Reichert of Washington. "You don't even know who investigated the case, but yet you say it was investigated." Democrats seemed more inclined to accept Miller's explanation. "I am not convinced that this is a great big political conspiracy," Democratic Representative Danny Davis said. Two other congressional committees will hold IRS hearings next week. One of them, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, plans to question five lower-level IRS employees over whether they played a role in the targeting of conservative groups. Wolin and Douglas Shulman, who was IRS commissioner when the targeting occurred, also are scheduled to testify. (Additional reporting by Karey Van Hall, Patrick Temple-West and Susan Heavey; Writing by Andy Sullivan; Editing by David Lindsey, Jackie Frank and Jim Loney)
CSACAPE CANAVERAL, Florida (Reuters) - Back on Earth, Canadian astronaut and cyberspace tweeter Chris Hadfield is getting a rough re-introduction to gravity after a five-month stint aboard the International Space Station, the former commander told reporters during a video webcast from Houston. Hadfield became a social media rock star with his zero-gravity version of David Bowie's "Space Oddity" and a continuous stream of commentary on Twitter about his life in orbit. But living without gravity for five months has left him feeling dizzy, weak and prematurely aged. A veteran of three space flights, he is wearing a pressure suit under his clothes to help his circulation as his body re-adapts to getting blood back to his brain. "Without the constant pull-down of gravity, your body gets a whole new normal, and my body was quite happy living in space without gravity," Hadfield, 53, said in a video conference call with Canadian reporters on Thursday, three days after returning to Earth. The video conference was posted on the Canadian Space Agency's UStream channel. "Right after I landed I could feel the weight of my lips and tongue ... I hadn't realized that I had learned to talk with a weightless tongue," he said. He is suffering overall body soreness, particularly in his neck and back which are again having to support his head after months in weightlessness. "It feels like I played full-contact hockey, but it's getting better by the hour," Hadfield said. "The subtle things and the big things are taking some re-adaptation to get used to and they are coming back one by one." Hadfield, who is the first from Canada to command a space station crew, NASA astronaut Thomas Marshburn and Russian cosmonaut Roman Romanenko landed in Kazakhstan on Monday. He and Marshburn were then flown to Houston to begin rehabilitation. As a departing finale Hadfield created a music video rendering of Bowie's classic "Space Oddity," which as of Friday had 13 million hits on YouTube. Hadfield, who is the lead singer and bass guitarist in the all-astronaut rock band Max Q, said it is too early to think about what he will do next. "For now, I'm still trying to stand up straight. I have to sit down in the shower so I don't faint and fall down, and I don't have calluses on the bottom of my feet yet, so I'm walking around like I walked on hot coals," he said. It usually takes about three weeks until a returning astronaut can return to driving, according to the Canadian Space Agency. "We're sort of tottering around like two old duffers in an old folks home," Hadfield said, referring to his crew mate Marshburn. Hadfield's orbital odyssey ended with a parachute descent of their Soyuz space capsule onto the steppes of Kazakhstan. "We hit the Earth just like a car crash, like we expected," Hadfield said. "There was enough wind so that we rolled up on our side. I was the guy hanging from the ceiling." "Our first true sense of being home was a window full of the dirt of the Earth and the smell of spring and the growing grasses in Kazakhstan wafting in through the open hatch," he said. (Editing by David Adams and Jackie Frank) SEE ALSO: 23 Unforgettable Moments From Astronaut's Adventure
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiBen Bernanke speaks at MIT's 2006 commencement ceremony.Ben Bernanke gave a commencement speech to the graduates of Bard College at Simon's Rock. "My emphasis today will be on prospects for the long run," he said.† "In particular, I will be looking beyond the very real challenges of economic recovery that we face today--challenges that I have every confidence we will overcome--to speak, for a change, about economic growth as measured in decades, not months or quarters." Bernanke discusses the technological advancements while focusing on the importance of creativity and critical thinking. "The history of technological innovation and economic development teaches us that change is the only constant," he said.† "During your working lives, you will have to reinvent yourselves many times. Success and satisfaction will not come from mastering a fixed body of knowledge but from constant adaptation and creativity in a rapidly changing world. Engaging with and applying new technologies will be a crucial part of that adaptation." Here's the full transcript: Economic Prospects for the Long Run Let me start by congratulating the graduates and their parents. The word "graduate" comes from the Latin word for "step." Graduation from college is only one step on a journey, but it is an important one and well worth celebrating.I think everyone here appreciates what a special privilege each of you has enjoyed in attending a unique institution like Simon's Rock. It is, to my knowledge, the only "early college" in the United States; many of you came here after the 10th or 11th grade in search of a different educational experience. And with only about 400 students on campus, I am sure each of you has felt yourself to be part of a close-knit community. Most important, though, you have completed a curriculum that emphasizes creativity and independent critical thinking, habits of mind that I am sure will stay with you.What's so important about creativity and critical thinking? There are many answers. I am an economist, so I will answer by talking first about our economic future--or your economic future, I should say, because each of you will have many years, I hope, to contribute to and benefit from an increasingly sophisticated, complex, and globalized economy. My emphasis today will be on prospects for the long run. In particular, I will be looking beyond the very real challenges of economic recovery that we face today--challenges that I have every confidence we will overcome--to speak, for a change, about economic growth as measured in decades, not months or quarters.Many factors affect the development of the economy, notably among them a nation's economic and political institutions, but over long periods probably the most important factor is the pace of scientific and technological progress. Between the days of the Roman Empire and when the Industrial Revolution took hold in Europe, the standard of living of the average person throughout most of the world changed little from generation to generation. For centuries, many, if not most, people produced much of what they and their families consumed and never traveled far from where they were born. By the mid-1700s, however, growing scientific and technical knowledge was beginning to find commercial uses. Since then, according to standard accounts, the world has experienced at least three major waves of technological innovation and its application. The first wave drove the growth of the early industrial era, which lasted from the mid-1700s to the mid-1800s. This period saw the invention of steam engines, cotton-spinning machines, and railroads. These innovations, by introducing mechanization, specialization, and mass production, fundamentally changed how and where goods were produced and, in the process, greatly increased the productivity of workers and reduced the cost of basic consumer goods. The second extended wave of invention coincided with the modern industrial era, which lasted from the mid-1800s well into the years after World War II. This era featured multiple innovations that radically changed everyday life, such as indoor plumbing, the harnessing of electricity for use in homes and factories, the internal combustion engine, antibiotics, powered flight, telephones, radio, television, and many more. The third era, whose roots go back at least to the 1940s but which began to enter the popular consciousness in the 1970s and 1980s, is defined by the information technology (IT) revolution, as well as fields like biotechnology that improvements in computing helped make possible. Of course, the IT revolution is still going on and shaping our world today.Now here's a question--in fact, a key question, I imagine, from your perspective. What does the future hold for the working lives of today's graduates? The economic implications of the first two waves of innovation, from the steam engine to the Boeing 747, were enormous. These waves vastly expanded the range of available products and the efficiency with which they could be produced. Indeed, according to the best available data, output per person in the United States increased by approximately 30 times between 1700 and 1970 or so, growth that has resulted in multiple transformations of our economy and society.1 History suggests that economic prospects during the coming decades depend on whether the most recent revolution, the IT revolution, has economic effects of similar scale and scope as the previous two. But will it?I must report that not everyone thinks so. Indeed, some knowledgeable observers have recently made the case that the IT revolution, as important as it surely is, likely will not generate the transformative economic effects that flowed from the earlier technological revolutions.2 As a result, these observers argue, economic growth and change in coming decades likely will be noticeably slower than the pace to which Americans have become accustomed. Such an outcome would have important social and political--as well as economic--consequences for our country and the world.This provocative assessment of our economic future has attracted plenty of attention among economists and others as well. Does it make sense? Here's one way to think more concretely about the argument that the pessimists are making: Fifty years ago, in 1963, I was a nine-year-old growing up in a middle-class home in a small town in South Carolina. As a way of getting a handle on the recent pace of economic change, it's interesting to ask how my family's everyday life back then differed from that of a typical family today. Well, if I think about it, I could quickly come up with the Internet, cellphones, and microwave ovens as important conveniences that most of your families have today that my family lacked 50 years ago. Health care has improved some since I was young; indeed, life expectancy at birth in the United States has risen from 70 years in 1963 to 78 years today, although some of this improvement is probably due to better nutrition and generally higher levels of income rather than advances in medicine alone. Nevertheless, though my memory may be selective, it doesn't seem to me that the differences in daily life between then and now are all that large. Heating, air conditioning, cooking, and sanitation in my childhood were not all that different from today. We had a dishwasher, a washing machine, and a dryer. My family owned a comfortable car with air conditioning and a radio, and the experience of commercial flight was much like today but without the long security lines. For entertainment, we did not have the Internet or video games, as I mentioned, but we had plenty of books, radio, musical recordings, and a color TV (although, I must acknowledge, the colors were garish and there were many fewer channels to choose from).The comparison of the world of 1963 with that of today suggests quite substantial but perhaps not transformative economic change since then. But now let's run this thought experiment back another 50 years, to 1913 (the year the Federal Reserve was created by the Congress, by the way), and compare how my grandparents and your great-grandparents lived with how my family lived in 1963. Life in 1913 was simply much harder for most Americans than it would be later in the century. Many people worked long hours at dangerous, dirty, and exhausting jobs--up to 60 hours per week in manufacturing, for example, and even more in agriculture. Housework involved a great deal of drudgery; refrigerators, freezers, vacuum cleaners, electric stoves, and washing machines were not in general use, which should not be terribly surprising since most urban households, and virtually all rural households, were not yet wired for electricity. In the entertainment sphere, Americans did not yet have access to commercial radio broadcasts and movies would be silent for another decade and a half. Some people had telephones, but no long-distance service was available. In transportation, in 1913 Henry Ford was just beginning the mass production of the Model T automobile, railroads were powered by steam, and regular commercial air travel was quite a few years away. Importantly, life expectancy at birth in 1913 was only 53 years, reflecting not only the state of medical science at the time--infection-fighting antibiotics and vaccines for many deadly diseases would not be developed for several more decades--but also deficiencies in sanitation and nutrition. This was quite a different world than the one in which I grew up in 1963 or in which we live today.The purpose of these comparisons is to make concrete the argument made by some economists, that the economic and technological transformation of the past 50 years, while significant, does not match the changes of the 50 years--or, for that matter, the 100 years--before that. Extrapolating to the future, the conclusion some have drawn is that the sustainable pace of economic growth and change and the associated improvement in living standards will likely slow further, as our most recent technological revolution, in computers and IT, will not transform our lives as dramatically as previous revolutions have.Well, that's sort of depressing. Is it true, then, as baseball player Yogi Berra said, that the future ain't what it used to be? Nobody really knows; as Berra also astutely observed, it's tough to make predictions, especially about the future. But there are some good arguments on the other side of this debate.First, innovation, almost by definition, involves ideas that no one has yet had, which means that forecasts of future technological change can be, and often are, wildly wrong. A safe prediction, I think, is that human innovation and creativity will continue; it is part of our very nature. Another prediction, just as safe, is that people will nevertheless continue to forecast the end of innovation. The famous British economist John Maynard Keynes observed as much in the midst of the Great Depression more than 80 years ago. He wrote then, "We are suffering just now from a bad attack of economic pessimism. It is common to hear people say that the epoch of enormous economic progress which characterised the 19th century is over; that the rapid improvement in the standard of life is now going to slow down."3 Sound familiar? By the way, Keynes argued at that time that such a view was shortsighted and, in characterizing what he called "the economic possibilities for our grandchildren," he predicted that income per person, adjusted for inflation, could rise as much as four to eight times by 2030. His guess looks pretty good; income per person in the United States today is roughly six times what it was in 1930.Second, not only are scientific and technical innovation themselves inherently hard to predict, so are the long-run practical consequences of innovation for our economy and our daily lives. Indeed, some would say that we are still in the early days of the IT revolution; after all, computing speeds and memory have increased many times over in the 30-plus years since the first personal computers came on the market, and fields like biotechnology are also advancing rapidly. Moreover, even as the basic technologies improve, the commercial applications of these technologies have arguably thus far only scratched the surface. Consider, for example, the potential for IT and biotechnology to improve health care, one of the largest and most important sectors of our economy. A strong case can be made that the modernization of health-care IT systems would lead to better-coordinated, more effective, and less costly patient care than we have today, including greater responsiveness of medical practice to the latest research findings.4Robots, lasers, and other advanced technologies are improving surgical outcomes, and artificial intelligence systems are being used to improve diagnoses and chart courses of treatment. Perhaps even more revolutionary is the trend toward so-called personalized medicine, which would tailor medical treatments for each patient based on information drawn from that individual's genetic code. Taken together, such advances could lead to another jump in life expectancy and improved health at older ages.Other promising areas for the application of new technologies include the development of cleaner energy--for example, the harnessing of wind, wave, and solar power and the development of electric and hybrid vehicles--as well as potential further advances in communications and robotics. I'm sure that I can't imagine all of the possibilities, but historians of science have commented on our collective tendency to overestimate the short-term effects of new technologies while underestimating their longer-term potential.5Finally, pessimists may be paying too little attention to the strength of the underlying economic and social forces that generate innovation in the modern world. Invention was once the province of the isolated scientist or tinkerer. The transmission of new ideas and the adaptation of the best new insights to commercial uses were slow and erratic. But all of that is changing radically. We live on a planet that is becoming richer and more populous, and in which not only the most advanced economies but also large emerging market nations like China and India increasingly see their economic futures as tied to technological innovation. In that context, the number of trained scientists and engineers is increasing rapidly, as are the resources for research being provided by universities, governments, and the private sector. Moreover, because of the Internet and other advances in communications, collaboration and the exchange of ideas take place at high speed and with little regard for geographic distance. For example, research papers are now disseminated and critiqued almost instantaneously rather than after publication in a journal several years after they are written. And, importantly, as trade and globalization increase the size of the potential market for new products, the possible economic rewards for being first with an innovative product or process are growing rapidly.6 In short, both humanity's capacity to innovate and the incentives to innovate are greater today than at any other time in history.Well, what does all this have to do with creativity and critical thinking, which is where I started? The history of technological innovation and economic development teaches us that change is the only constant. During your working lives, you will have to reinvent yourselves many times. Success and satisfaction will not come from mastering a fixed body of knowledge but from constant adaptation and creativity in a rapidly changing world. Engaging with and applying new technologies will be a crucial part of that adaptation. Your work here at Simon's Rock, and the intellectual skills, creativity, and imagination that that work has fostered, are the best possible preparation for these challenges. And while I have emphasized technological and scientific advances today, it is important to remember that the arts and humanities facilitate new and creative thinking as well, while helping us to draw meaning that goes beyond the purely material aspects of our lives. I wish you the best in facing the difficult but exciting challenges that lie ahead. Congratulations. ----1. See Angus Maddison (2007), Contours of the World Economy, 1-2030 AD: Essays in Macro-Economic History (New York: Oxford University Press), table A.7, p. 382. 2. Two important examples are Tyler Cowen (2011) and Robert J. Gordon (2010, 2012); the latter reference, in particular, also contains a discussion of headwinds to growth beyond the prospects for innovation. See Tyler Cowen (2011), The Great Stagnation: How America Ate All the Low-Hanging Fruit of Modern History, Got Sick, and Will (Eventually) Feel Better (New York: Dutton); Robert J. Gordon (2010), "Revisiting U.S. Productivity Growth over the Past Century with a View of the Future," Leaving the Board NBER Working Paper Series 15834 (Cambridge, Mass.: National Bureau of Economic Research, March); and Robert J. Gordon (2012), "Is U.S. Economic Growth Over? Faltering Innovation Confronts the Six Headwinds," Leaving the Board NBER Working Paper Series 18315 (Cambridge, Mass.: National Bureau of Economic Research, August).3. John M. Keynes (1931), "Economic Possibilities for Our Grandchildren (1930)," inEssays in Persuasion (London: Macmillan), p. 358.4. See Martin Neil Baily, James M. Manyika, and Shalabh Gupta (2013), "U.S. Productivity Growth: An Optimistic Perspective," Leaving the Board International Productivity Monitor,Spring, pp. 3-12.5. This tendency has been referred to as the first law of technology. On the potential impact of genome sequencing, see Francis Collins (2010), "Has the Revolution Arrived?"Nature, vol. 464 (April), pp.674-75. For an accessible discussion of the possibilities for life expectancy, see Stephen S. Hall (2013), "On beyond 100," National Geographic,May, http://ngm.nationalgeographic.com/2013/05/longevity/hall-text.6. For a discussion of the economic models of growth that build in cumulative forces of knowledge generation and the effects of expansion in the size of the market, see Charles I. Jones and Paul M. Romer (2010), "The New Kaldor Facts: Ideas, Institutions, Population, and Human Capital," Leaving the Board American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics, vol. 2 (January), pp. 224-45.

That time period, which coincidentally spans my professional career, has seen the global economy increase by approximately 3.4pc per annum in purchasing power parity terms. For the last few years, a central thesis of mine has been that, because of Chinaís ascent, this decade could see the world growing by just over 4pc. Such a figure confounds not only the pessimists so prevalent since the 2008 credit crisis, but also surprises those who believe the world has a reasonably stable trend rate of growth. It is quite easy to show that if China grows by around 7.5pc this decade, itself a somewhat softer target given the 10.25pc of the past three decades, and if the US, Europe and Japan restore growth to their trend levels, the world will grow by this stronger number. China in US dollar terms is now an $8.2 trillion (£5.3 trillion) economy. Its impact, even at softer rates of growth, is becoming bigger and bigger. Normally, when I explain these numbers to an audience, people are sceptical for two reasons. First, they are highly dubious that the US, Japan and especially Europe can restore their growth performance. Secondly, most either donít realise or donít want to accept that state-run China will continue to become more important, especially as evidence grows that it is slowing from its previous double-digit growth rates. Throughout most of the last few years, I have generally believed that people are in for a pleasant surprise; I anticipated the global equity rally that we are experiencing. In the short space of time since I moved on from Goldman Sachs, I have found myself asking two questions I didnít expect to. Is there something inherent in the world economic system that means we can only grow by 3.4pc each decade? And if China ó and other so-called large emerging economies ó continue to see their importance increase, does the obvious corollary hold true: that other regions will see weaker growth? Put another way, does their strength mean weakness for us? Will this decadeís surprise turn out to be that China slows even more than the 7.5pc growth I have been assuming? I find myself wondering about the latter because some of the more useful indicators I have learnt to trust for China continue to soften, in addition to the news of the softer than expected Q1 real GDP growth of 7.7pc. An index of Chinese financial conditions ó a combination of monetary growth, interest rates and their equity market ó remains quite subdued. And I hear more and more anecdotal evidence that China is no longer the cheap home it was for manufacturers around the world due to continued wage increases and the strength of the renminbi. To some extent, softer growth in China is not bad news for the rest of us. It is probably a major reason why a number of important commodity prices have seen significant reversals. Thatís not great short term for many commodity-intensive producing countries, but it is good news for many others. One of the reasons why the likes of the UK may have struggled to rediscover economic growth since 2008 is the persistent rise in imported commodity costs, adding to pressures on real disposable incomes. But, if commodity prices are now easing, thatís no longer the case. It could also mean the decline in sterling since 2009 might still bring some reward for the economy, which has until recently been so hard to detect. Also, as long as Chinaís consumption continues to perform well, that is what really matters to anyone wanting to export more to them. So what about the recent evidence from our own and other so-called developed economies? Our stock markets seem to be enjoying themselves. Many ascribe the robust performance of stocks as nothing more than the consequence of friendly monetary policies all over the world. While I am sure this is playing its part, it was just as fashionable to argue the same easy monetary policies were also fuelling the commodity rally some time ago, so perhaps it isnít that simple. Maybe something a bit more substantive is happening. After the pleasant surprise of +0.3pc real GDP in the UK in Q1, many of us were braced for the resulting setback, which would follow the pattern of the past couple of years. But while it is early days, quite a bit of recent economic news has continued to be on the positive side. While much of the eurozone continues to struggle, US performance remains encouraging; a housing recovery and a competitive boost from cheaper domestic energy seem to have underpinned the improvement. And, while we donít export a great deal to Japan these days, the improving mood of the Japanese consumer to the countryís monetary and fiscal boost suggests that a number of other economies will take heart. It is too soon to be singing in the streets, but the signs are looking better than they have for a while. Jim OíNeill is the former head of Goldman Sachs Asset Management 
Fat corporate profit margins have been a key driver of the surging stock market.† Indeed, this has been the foundation of recent earnings growth. But is this theme sustainable? "One of the most common bearish arguments that we hear from clients is that margins are mean-reverting," writes Dan Suzuki, equity strategist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch. "With net margins near record levels, a reversion to the mean would result in a 15-20% hit to earnings." This is the position shared by the likes of John Hussman, GMO's Jeremy Grantham, and SocGen's Albert Edwards. Some have attributed recent profit margin gains to companies squeezing more out of their workers.† This would explain why corporate profits have surged to record highs even as wages have stagnated and unemployment rates remain stubbornly high. Low wage-driven margin gains are unsustainable, warns David Rosenberg. However, the bears appear to be focusing too much on what amounts to being a small component of margin gains. "There are several reasons why margins should remain structurally higher than the historical average," writes Suzuki. "Importantly, roughly two-thirds of the improvement in net margins can be attributed to changes below the operating line, specifically interest expense and taxes." Here's Suzuki's breakdown of how margins got to be so fat. Bank Of America Merrill Lynch And Suzuki thinks low interest expense and taxes are sustainable: The S&amp;P 500ís effective tax rate has fallen as an increasing share of profits is being generated from overseas where tax rates are lower. We do not expect any meaningful decline in the share of foreign profits, and if we eventually see US corporate tax reform, most of the proposals actually call for corporate tax rates to be lowered, not raised. Meanwhile, lower leverage levels and interest rates have reduced the interest expense burden of companies, and although we could see interest rates rise from current depressed levels, we would still expect them to remain well below history. We also do not see any rush for corporations to meaningfully re-lever their balance sheets for the foreseeable future. Every 10bp of margin expansion translates into roughly 1ppt faster EPS growth relative to sales growth. Suzuki believes it's a mistake to think that margins will revert to a long-term mean just for the sake of reverting to a mean. Rather, he argues that high margins reflect a long-term structural change, not a short-term cyclical one.† This has long been the position of veteran market strategists David Bianco of Deutsche Bank and Brian Belski of BMO Capital. So, while it may be the case that low wages are unsustainable, the profit margin story is being driven by much larger long-term forces. Bank Of America Merrill Lynch Suzuki expects S&amp;P 500 earnings to grow to $115 per share in 2014, up 6% from this year's $109 level. "While we expect global economic growth to accelerate in 2014, growth will continue to be hampered by global fiscal austerity with limited scope for significant incremental monetary easing," he wrote.† "And given how lean corporate cost structures have already been cut, we believe it will be difficult for corporations to generate further earnings growth through further margin expansion. As such, we expect the S&amp;P 500 to maintain the current growth trajectory of 5-7% annually."
Business InsiderOn June 1, thousands of Wall Streeters will take the Charted Financial Analyst (CFA) exam and many of them are probably freaking out right about now. ¬†¬† Consisting of three levels, the CFA is considered to be the most difficult test on the Street with fewer than¬†20 percent of candidates¬†passing all three on the first try.¬† What's more is the average test-taker spends a solid five to six months preparing for the CFA. There are several formulas a candidate must know to pass. ¬†However, there are way too many formulas to be included in one small slideshow. That being said, we've included 9 formulas candidates are likely to need on any of the three levels of the CFA exam. Best of luck to all the test takers out there! Reporter Ben Duronio contributed to this feature.¬†  DISCLAIMER: We don't claim to be experts in offering exam advice.
For the past week, there's been a big brouhaha at Bloomberg over how reporters for the business news service have been using the company‚Äôs terminals to monitor employees on Wall Street. Some reporters have apparently used that information to find leads for the articles they write. Now Bloomberg has gotten former IBM CEO Sam Palmisano involved. Palmisano will conduct a review of Bloomberg's privacy policies and help Bloomberg come up with rules on what reporters can and cannot do with terminal subscriber data, reports the New York Times' Amy Chozick. Palmisano is a friend of Bloomberg founder Michael Bloomberg and sits on the board of his charity foundation, Bloomberg Philanthropies. To recap: Goldman Sachs complained when it learned that Bloomberg staffers could see which of its employees had been logging into Bloomberg‚Äôs proprietary terminals. One reporter used that info as a lead for a story. She called Goldman asking if one of its employees had left the company, based on the fact that the employee hadn't logged into the terminal for weeks. Goldman freaked and complained. Then complaints poured in from the likes of JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Deutsche Bank, and the Federal Reserve, Chozick reports. So investigations have commenced, too. So far, Bloomberg has hired a top editor to come up with rules on how reporters can use terminal data, hired a law firm to investigate, appointed a compliance officer and now, asked Palmisano to conduct a review. There's even some talk that Goldman might create its own Bloomberg-like terminal chat system.
REUTERS/Joe SkipperEveryone loves a good book on investing, economics, or a fresh take on finance. With all of the titles floating around out there, though, it can be hard to sort through the pile. "Doug Kass has a terrific reading list," says Blackstone Vice Chairman Byron Wien. Kass, the widely-followed portfolio manager who is president and founder of Seabreeze Partners Management, gave us a list of his 31 favorite titles he recommends investors should read.
The Weekly Leading Index (WLI) of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) is at 130.2, down slightly from last week's 131.0. The WLI annualized growth indicator (WLIg) dropped to 7.0% from 7.4% last week, an upward revision from 7.3%. Last year ECRI switched focus to their version of the Big Four Economic Indicators that I routinely track. But when those failed last summer to "roll over" collectively (as ECRI claimed was happening), the company published a new set of indicators to support their recession call in a commentary entitled The U.S. Business Cycle in the Context of the Yo-Yo Years (PDF format). Late last month the company added its most recent publically available commentary on their website: Nominal GDP Growth Falls Again. Essentially ECRI is sticking to its call that a recession began in mid-2012, although the company calls it a "mild" recession, which is quite a shift from their original stance 19 months ago: "...if you think this is a bad economy, you haven't seen anything yet." ECRI posts its proprietary indicators on a one-week delayed basis to the general public, but last year the company switched its focus to a version of the Big Four Economic Indicators I've been tracking for the past year. In recent months, however, those indicators have slipped below the fold, replaced by the mixed bag of whatever Indicator du Jour might look recessionary, as in the "Yo-Yo Years" commentary linked above. Likewise, see this March 7th Bloomberg video. At about the 2-minute point Achuthan reasserts his call that a recession began in the middle of 2012. In previous interviews he has specifically mentioned July as the business cycle peak, thus putting us in the tenth month of a recession. Here is a chart of ECRI's data that illustrates why the company's published proprietary indicator has little credibility as a recession indicator. It's the smoothed year-over-year percent change since 2000 of their weekly leading index. I've highlighted the 2011 date of ECRI's recession call and the hypothetical July business cycle peak, which the company claims was the start of a recession. † † Here are two significant developments since ECRI's publick recession call on September 30, 2011: Ultimately my opinion remains unchanged: The ECRI's credibility depends on major downward revisions to the key economic indicators -- especially the July annual revisions to GDP -- that will be sufficient to validate their early recession call. Of course, the July revisions will be quite controversial this year, with some major accounting changes and revisions in annual GDP back to 1929 (more here). So if we don't get the downward revisions to support ECRI, they can always question the accounting changes in the revision process. A Closer Look at ECRI's Latest Recession Evidence Their latest recession evidence is the YoY growth in nominal GDP, which they highlight in this chart. ECRI is absolutely correct in their observation that "yoy nominal GDP growth at or below 3.7% has been seen only in recessionary contexts. In Q1 2013, it fell to 3.4%, the second straight quarter below 3.7%." For further support of their point, here is a snapshot of YoY Nominal GDP as far back as quarterly GDP has been calculated by the Commerce Department. † † However, some might argue that the use of nominal GDP for a YoY analysis is problematic, especially to those of us who had 12% mortgages during that era of stagflation against the backdrop of a Fed Funds rate in the upper teens. Doesn't YoY real GDP have more credibility? Not surprisingly ECRI doesn't chart the the real YoY series, which has a couple of recessions that started with a lower YoY number than the latest data point. † † Actually, I think we could make a strong case for preferring the YoY behavior of real GDP per capita. After all, if we adjust for inflation, doesn't it also make sense to adjust this supreme economic indicator for population growth? † † Oops! The current level of this version is higher than the onset of all recessions in this timeframe except for the second half of the early 1980s double-dip. This indicator would definitely not be of interest to ECRI. ECRI's Recession Call Was a Bet Against the Fed Let's briefly review the history of the ECRI recession call. ECRI adamantly denied that the sharp decline of their indicators in 2010 marked the beginning of a recession. But in 2011, when their proprietary indicators were at levels higher than 2010, they made their controversial recession call with stunning confidence bordering on arrogance: Ironically enough, on the same day ECRI forecast a recession, Chairman Bernanke announced a new policy, Operation Twist, which was followed by QE3 in September 2012 and unlimited easing (aka QE4) in December 2012. Essentially ECRI claim that "there's nothing that policy makers can do to head it [a recession] off" was a bet against the Fed. For a few months after ECRI's recession call, their proprietary indicators cooperated with their forecast, but that has not been the case since the second half of 2012 -- hence their switch to the traditional Big Four recession indicators. Now that those are less cooperative, ECRI is cherry picking other indicators and switching to year-over-year perspectives when the monthly trend isn't sloping downward. † For alternatives to ECRI's recession forecasting, see method developed by Anton and Georg Vrba: See also Dwaine Van Vuuren's latest RecessionALERT indicator snapshot: † Despite the increasing irrelevance of the ECRI's recession indicators in recent years, let's check them out. The first chart below shows the history of the Weekly Leading Index and highlights its current level. † † For a better understanding of the relationship of the WLI level to recessions, the next chart shows the data series in terms of the percent off the previous peak. In other words, a new weekly high registers at 100%, with subsequent declines plotted accordingly. † † As the chart above illustrates, only once has a recession occurred without the index level achieving a new high -- the two recessions, commonly referred to as a "double-dip," in the early 1980s. Our current level is 11.9% off the most recent high, which was set over five years ago in June 2007. We're now tied with the previously longest stretch between highs, which was from February 1973 to April 1978. But the index level rose steadily from the trough at the end of the 1973-1975 recession to reach its new high in 1978. The pattern in ECRI's indictor is quite different, and this has no doubt been a key factor in their business cycle analysis. The WLIg Metric The best known of ECRI's indexes is their growth calculation on the WLI. For a close look at this index in recent months, here's a snapshot of the data since 2000. † † Now let's step back and examine the complete series available to the public, which dates from 1967. ECRI's WLIg metric has had a respectable record for forecasting recessions and rebounds therefrom. The next chart shows the correlation between the WLI, GDP and recessions. † † The History of ECRI's Latest Recession Call ECRI's weekly leading index has become a major focus and source of controversy ever since September 30, 2011, when ECRI publicly announced that the U.S. is tipping into a recession, a call the Institute had announced to its private clients on September 21st. Here is an excerpt from the announcement: Year-over-Year Growth in the WLI Triggered by another ECRI commentary, Why Our Recession Call Stands, I now include a snapshot of the year-over-year growth of the WLI rather than ECRI's previously favored method of calculating the WLIg series from the underlying WLI (see the endnote below). Specifically the chart immediately below is the year-over-year change in the 4-week moving average of the WLI. The red dots highlight the YoY value for the month when recessions began. † † The WLI YoY, is off its interim high in early February. The latest reading is 4.9%, down from last week's 5.0%. However, this is higher than at the onset of all recessions in the chart timeframe. The second half of the early 1980s double dip, which was to some extent an engineered recession to break the back of inflation, is a conspicuous outlier in this series, and it started at a lower WLI YoY of 4.1%. Additional Sources for Recession Forecasts Dwaine van Vuuren, CEO of RecessionAlert.com, and his collaborators, including Georg Vrba and Franz Lischka, have developed a powerful recession forecasting methodology that shows promise of making forecasts with fewer false positives, which I take to include excessively long lead times, such as ECRI's September 2011 recession call. Here is today's update of Georg Vrba's analysis, which is explained in more detail in this article. † † Earlier Video Chronology of ECRI's Recession Call † Note: How to Calculate the Growth series from the Weekly Leading Index ECRI's weekly Excel spreadsheet includes the WLI and the Growth series, but the latter is a series of values without the underlying calculations. After a collaborative effort by Franz Lischka, Georg Vrba, Dwaine van Vuuren and Kishor Bhatia to model the calculation, Georg discovered the actual formula in a 1999 article published by Anirvan Banerji, the Chief Research Officer at ECRI: The three Ps: simple tools for monitoring economic cycles - pronounced, pervasive and persistent economic indicators. Here is the formula:
The US dollar is capping this week's strong performance with new gains and the Dollar Index is at new highs for the year. ¬†It was the dollar-bloc currencies that had the dubious honor of being the weakest currencies over the past week, taking the baton from the Japanese yen. ¬† Although the US reported some soft economic data in recent days, including a backing up of weekly initial jobless claims, the second consecutive monthly decline in manufacturing output and softer than expected consumer prices, the market is going through one of its episodic periods where it flirts with the possibility that the QE, which some had disparaged for being infinite, might end earlier than previously anticipated. The combination of comments by two Fed presidents, Plosser and Williams, and resilience of the labor market have fanned expectations that the FOMC could taper QE purchases around mid-year. This heightened expectation is crystallizing as European officials continue talk about the possibility of additional easing, including a negative deposit rate. ¬†Rumors made in the rounds in Europe today that at least one major bank was contacted by the ECB about preparations for a negative deposit rate.¬†  We suspect the market is getting ahead of itself. ¬†Neither Plosser nor Williams are voting members of the FOMC. ¬†Williams is closer to the Fed's Troika of Bernanke, Yellen (who he replaced as the San Fran Fed President) and Dudley, but his remarks were conditioned on continued improvement. ¬† Given what Bernanke called the "reach for yield" in a speech at the end of last week, it makes sense that the Fed officials address investor concerns that the QE is creating bubble of its own, or in Fed-speak, encouraging a level of risk-taking not justified by fundamental conditions. ¬†Indicating that QE is not infinite after all and that asset markets are being watched closely is one way deflect criticism. ¬† In this context, Bernanke's testimony on the economy in the middle of next week is more important than Plosser and Williams comments. ¬† Moreover, the softness of inflation readings may be more important for Fed policy than the labor market in the coming months. ¬†What we mean by that is the decline in measured inflation gives the Fed more time to push for faster job creation.¬†  Headline CPI, which in April was 1.1% above year ago levels, has a difficult comparison with a year ago. ¬†In May-July 2012, the month-over-month CPI changes were net-net flat. ¬†This suggest headline CPI may stabilize in the coming months. ¬†However, the 0.5% increase in both August and September will drop out and the risk is that headline CPI falls below 1%. ¬†Core CPI has been a bit stickier, it peaked a year ago at 2.3% and in April stood at 1.7%. ¬†Given base effects, it is likely to slip below 1.5% in the coming months. ¬† Separately, we note that broad US money growth seems largely unaffected by the $85 bln purchases the Fed is making every month. ¬† M1, which is most impacted by QE has slowed to a 11.9% year-over-year pace in April from 13.2% pace at the end of last year. ¬†M2 has slowed from an 8.0% clip in December '12 to 7.1% in April. ¬†Bank loans rose 3.7% above a year ago. ¬†Last year they rose 4.2%. ¬† US 2 and 10-year yields were largely flat over the past week. ¬†Japanese yields were higher and it is both the rise and volatility of the JGB market that will likely dominate the discussion when the BOJ meets early next week. ¬†Given the recent economic data, which includes the stronger than expected GDP and the 14.2% increase in March machinery orders (reported earlier today after the GDP figures shows that capital spending fell for the fifth consecutive quarter), there is some risk that the BOJ (and the Abe government) upgrade their economic assessment, even though the GDP deflator showed the most deflation in over a year. ¬†European and Australian/New Zealand interest rates were lower, with the UK, the notable exception. ¬† With the G7 offering little resistance to yen weakness, the small rise in Japanese rates make little difference and many players are looking for JPY105 in the coming weeks. ¬†The yen is not match for the dollar currently, but it is for the euro. ¬†The euro-yen is little changed on the week ¬† The poor euro area growth, softening inflation, the increased risk of easier monetary policy (and potentially disruptive if the deposit rate is cut below zero) haven given the euro bears more fodder. ¬† The fascination with the dollar-bloc has ended abruptly. Don't fight the central banks seemed like a key mantra for many investors and central banks were diversifying reserves into the dollar-bloc. ¬†The reach for yield¬†favored them as well. ¬†The shortage of triple-A paper also was thought to offer protection especially for the Canadian and Australian dollars. ¬†¬† Perhaps the question is which central bankers one ought to pay attention to. ¬†Dollar-bloc central bankers themselves often expressed frustration with the strength of their currencies, but investors had largely ignored this in the recent past. ¬† In any event, softness of the Chinese economy, where recent import and export data is viewed with a jaded eye--not just by foreign investors, but by Chinese officials--and the decline in commodity prices, with implications for macro economic performance and investment plans ,have taken a toll. ¬†In particular, it is the pace of the Australian dollar's decline, pushed along by negative comments (which likely means short positions) from some high profile hedge funds, that is spurred the dramatic price action. ¬† The US dollar is finishing the week firmly for two reasons. ¬†The first is positive developments for the dollar, though we are skeptical of how quick the Fed tapers off its purchases given the subdued price pressures and slow gains in non-farm payrolls. ¬†Bernanke's testimony will be important. ¬†The second is a deterioration of the macro-fundamentals in Europe and the dollar-bloc, with no major objection to continued yen weakness. ¬† Interest rate developments generally are consistent with price action. ¬†  Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
ShutterstockOver the past few weeks, attention in financial markets has once again turned to the prospect of the Federal Reserve tapering back its monetary stimulus, spurred on by public speeches from Fed presidents and articles from WSJ reporter Jon Hilsenrath, who is viewed as close to the central bank. As concerns that the Fed may begin exiting the bond market this year have risen, investors have unloaded bonds, causing a swift back-up in interest rates. Of course, if that sort of thing happens when there is merely talk of tapering stimulus, investors rightfully wonder what would happen if the Fed were to actually begin tapering. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale fixed income strategist Vincent Chaigneau writes in a note to clients that "this was just a sneak preview of the horror movie that we see coming out this summer: a nasty Treasury sell-off." Here's Chaigneau: Less, not more QE. Two weeks ago in the FI Weekly, we thought it was premature to be aggressively short, but we presented trades that were most appropriate to position early for a sell-off. The sell-off did come early. Economic data has improved since the 3 May employment report. This has pushed forward short-term rates higher. 10y UST have sold off disproportionately ... highlighting the impact of the Fed exit debate. Fears that the Fed would soon taper QE have returned, causing a harsh bear steepening. But no Fed turn just yet. The WSJís article from Hilsenrath†on the Fed mapping exit from QE3 refocused minds away from the dovish interpretation of the FOMC statement, where the†Fed said it could do more or less QE. Even a dove like Williams is starting to talk about tapering QE this summer. Still, in our view, the Fed is only doing an early check of the marketís function reaction. The lesson: the market is sensitive; managing a smooth exit wonít be easy for the Fed. It will have to exit eventually, but there is no hurry: inflation has been subdued, and Q2 is still going to be a weak quarter for growth.† The data calendar is very light in the week ahead, but Wednesday promises to be exciting: weíll have both Bernanke testifying before the Joint Economic Committee on the economic outlook and the Fed Minutes (weíll see if they had a bias towards more or less QE)... We donít think Bernanke will strongly lean on the side of ìless QEî just yet on Wednesday, though there is a (small) risk that the recent Fedís leaks and talk are aimed at preparing the market for somewhat hawkish Minutes. In all, we donít see 10-year UST yields breaking above the key 2.09%, or even 1.98% resistance over the coming weeks. Chaigneau says SocGen is "very bearish" on Treasuries going into year-end ñ the French bank forecasts 10-year government bond yields will rise to 2.75% by the end of 2013.
Everyone knows the odds of winning in a casino are worse than 50% (often much worse depending on the game played). So who wouldn't rush to a casino where, instead, the odds were overwhelmingly in the gambler's favor? That's the promise of today's stock market, which has been experiencing an aberrantly high percentage of up days all year. Toss your money into the market and on any given day, you're much likelier to make money than not. So far, May 2013 has been a gambler's paradise, in which a whopping 76.9% of the trading days for the S&amp;P 500 have been up:  The chart below shows just how far 2013's up day percentage exceeds previous years:  † Of course, none of this boondoggle is merited by the underlying fundamentals, which clearly are not good. But if you're one of the top 10% of Americans that owns 81.2% of all stock market wealth, send a bottle of Bollinger to Ben and his buddies at the Federal Reserve as thanks for keeping the punch bowl so nicely spiked:  (Source) However, if you're one of the 9% of Americans who actually understands the concepts of "reversion to the mean" and "overshoot", you may want to run -- not walk -- to cash in any chips you may still have on the table. But if you have to keep money in the stock market, be sure to work with a prudent financial adviser that prioritizes risk management and is skeptical of today's easy winnings. Like all good benders, this is going to end with one heck of a hangover...
Leroy W. Demery, Jr.Today, we all know Taiwan as a Pacific powerhouse that provides the world with everything from PCs to basic metals to cameras. But for decades after World War II, the country remained something of a backwater, having been founded by refugees from the Chinese Civil War who subsequently imposed de facto martial law for 40 years. Public transit expert Leroy W. Demery Jr. journeyed to Taiwan in 1980 to examine how the country's investments in its rail sector was progressing, and took photos of his visit. We've shown you Demery's work from his visits to Asia previously. These photos show the country in the early stages of its modernization and industrialization campaign ‚Äî no longer an obscure, undeveloped island, but still not quite the gleaming, skyscraper-boasting megalopolis we know today. ¬† For hardcore Taiwan and/or public transit geeks, here is Leroy's introduction to his photo set:  I arrived at T√°ibƒïi airport from Hong Kong on 1980 July 18, a Friday afternoon. My primary interest was the then-new electrification of the (Ëá∫Âåó / Âè∞Âåó) T√°ibƒïi - (È´òÈõÑ) GƒÅoxi√≥ng railway. Timetable information was scarce, but it appeared that I could circle the island and visit the Alishan Forestry Railway "over the weekend," as we say.
Simply put, household debt averaged 77% of disposable personal income (DPI) over the 61-year period since 1952. It crossed over the average line in 1985 and took a sharp upward turn in 2000, eventually peaking at 130% of DPI in 2007. Since that time, consumers have reduced their debt to a level that is now 105% of DPI, still significantly higher than in the past. The result has been a significant slowdown and tepid recovery in consumer spending growth, a process that is far from finished. The role of household savings is a key element in analyzing both debt and spending. For 41 years between 1951 and 1992 household savings rates as a percent of disposable income were consistently between 7% and 11%. However, as income growth started to slow down, consumers increasingly maintained their old spending habits by going into more debt and reducing their savings rate. This reached an extreme during the prior decade, when the savings rate stayed below 2% from 2005 through 2007, while debt soared. We all know how that ended. No matter what you hear from the politicians, the media and ‚Äúthe street‚Äù, keep in mind that the combination of the household debt, low savings rates and tepid increases in income has been the reason for the deep recession and subsequent below average growth, and will continue to be the reason why economic growth will likely be slow for some time to come. In the last two years, between the 1st quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2013, real consumer spending has increased by a meager 3.8%----and this was accomplished on an increase of only 1.1% in real disposable income as households reduced their saving rate from 5.1% to 2.6%. It therefore should not have been a surprise that spending looked so weak in March, and it should be no surprise when spending remains subdued in the period ahead. With consumer spending accounting for about 70% of GDP, it is easy to see why this puts a damper on the rest of the economy, particularly in a time of fiscal drag. The Fed is undoubtedly well aware of the outlook as they continue their attempt to try and offset, at least in part, the major headwinds elsewhere in the economy. None of the above analysis depends on the Rogoff-Reinhart (RR) research, some of which was recently found to be erroneous. First, RR emphasizes mostly government rather than consumer debt. Second, they maintain that when the government debt-to-GDP ratio crosses 90%, economic growth slows down. The idea that there was some specific threshold of government debt-to-GDP that led to slower growth was probably not valid in the first place. In any event, we think that for the near-to-intermediate term, it is the still-high level of household debt that is the key drag on the economy. As we headed into the spring there was evidence that the already lackluster economy was slowing down even further.¬† Although the payroll employment report for April touched off a euphoric rise in stocks, the headline belied the underlying trend. While that was a positive surprise over the expected rise of 140,000 jobs, the reported increase of 165,000 for the month was nothing to write home about. It was well below the 1st quarter average of 206,000 per month as well as the 4th quarter average of 209,000. If anything, it looks as if employment increases are decelerating, certainly not a reason for celebration. In addition to the mediocre employment report there was a lot of other evidence that an already lackluster economy was slowing down further as we headed into the spring. The ISM manufacturing index fell for two consecutive months to its lowest level since December. The ISM non-manufacturing index also declined for two straight months and is now below its 1st quarter average. April vehicle sales slipped to under 15 million units for the first time since October. First quarter GDP grew at a disappointing 2.5% following only 0.3% in the prior quarter. Average GDP growth for the last four quarters has averaged only 1.8%. Real consumer spending has increased only 2% over the past year, and this was accomplished on an exceedingly weak 0.9% rise in real disposable income over the period. Only a sharp drop in the savings rate enabled consumers to reach even that disappointing level.  Furthermore, March core capital goods orders were up only 0.2% following a 4.8% decline in February. The year-over-year gain was 0.3%. The NAHB housing market index for May increased for the first time in four months and remains below the December/January peak. April housing starts dropped to the lowest level since November.¬† Although the NFIB Small Business Index rose in April, it is only five points above its lowest level for the past year and two points lower than a year earlier.¬† The index remains lower than at any point prior to 2008. Manufacturing production has declined for the last two months and three of the last four.¬† The Philadelphia Fed survey fell to minus 5.2, its lowest since February, and showed negative results for new orders, shipments and employment. All in all, despite the optimistic views of the economic pundits, the facts show otherwise. As for foreign economies, the IMF once again reduced its 2013 global and EU growth forecasts and China reported disappointing results for 1st quarter GDP and exports. This has resulted in a significant drop in commodity prices that is having adverse effects on a number of commodity-oriented emerging and advanced economies. Although the Fed, so far, has been able to lift stock prices, it has failed to elevate the economy to a point where growth is self-sustaining despite over four years of extremely easy monetary policy. The headwinds from fiscal policy will actually intensify in the months ahead while Washington shows few signs of alleviating the dysfunction that has plagued Congress for the last few years.¬†  It is also noteworthy that the market is losing the important boost it has received from rapidly rising earnings.¬† Over the last four quarters earnings are up only 0.4% from the four prior quarters.¬† Given sluggish U.S. and global economic growth, we think that current estimates of 22% second half earnings growth are highly unrealistic.¬†¬† Furthermore, the S&amp;P 500 is now selling at 20 times cyclically-smoothed trailing GAAP earnings, at the very high end of the zone that was considered normal prior to the serial bubbles of the last decade and a half. All in all, we believe that economic growth and corporate earnings will be highly disappointing in coming quarters and that investors will drop the pretense that the Fed can fix everything that ails the economy. Although Bernanke, himself, has been virtually begging for help from fiscal policy, it does not seem likely that he will get it anytime soon.¬† In our view, the risk of a substantial decline in the market outweighs the limited rewards from current levels.
