Around the world,†stock markets have faltered over the past month as fears that the Federal Reserve will taper back quantitative easing sooner than expected have crept into the global marketplace. BofA Merrill Lynch Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett says at this point, the sell-off looks overdone. In a note to clients titled "Equity Buy Signal Triggered," Hartnett says nearly every major stock market ñ with the exception of those in the U.S. and Japan ñ is now oversold: Contrarian ìBreadthî Rule Triggers Buy Signal BofAML Global Breadth Rule triggers contrarian ìbuyî signal for global equities. 43 out of 45 markets now ìoversoldî, i.e. trading below [their 200-day and 50-day moving averages]. Historically, ìbuyî signal followed by 6-7% gains in subsequent 4-6 weeks. Last buy signal on 6/1/12 nailed the low (stocks then rallied 30% trough-to-peak). Markets Stop Panicking when Policy Makers Start Panicking The rule is contrarian and argues solely for a short-term bounce in equities. A sustained rally normally requires policy changes to force shift in investor behavior. Two further caveats: Breadth Rule failed once, in July 2008, when deleveraging across asset classes caused meltdown in equity markets; the two markets that are not currently in buy territory are the two largest, US &amp; Japan. What is most oversold? Trading contrarians looking for long opportunities should note most oversold markets and sectors are all China &amp; carry-trade related: Brazil, Turkey, South Africa, Mexico and Materials. Note our EM Flow Trading Rule is very close to a ìbuyî signal. Least oversold: Japan, Health Care, Consumer Discretionary &amp; the US. The chart below shows previous performance of the Global Breadth Rule. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, MSCI
Gold is still looking like one of the sickliest assets in the world. The floor just dropped out of it tonight, sending it to a new low for this cycle. Kitco
The US saw strong economic data this morning, and a subsequent stock market rally. This helped nicely snap some of the freakout that we've been seeing in markets lately. Also helping things was intervention, last night, from the People's Bank of China, which is getting involved to ease credit strains. So Wednesday is starting nicely in Japan. Nikkei.com
"The longer they stay unconventional, the deeper they venture with these experimental policies, the more the costs and the risks start to become large relative to the benefits," he said. "There's a second really interesting issue, which is, are they giving us too much guidance?" On CNBC's "Fast Money," El-Erian said that oversharing had real consequences. (Read More:¬†3 Sectors to Weather Rising Rates) "When you give so much guidance to the market, you risk over-determining," he said. "So what happens, people jump to the terminal values. They don't even wait for the journey. They go immediately to the destination, and the re-price, and then the bad technicals kick in." El-Erian also said that he still saw value in¬†bonds, depending on the viewpoint. "From a value perspective, there is value in¬†Treasuries¬†up to about 10 years now," he said. "From a technical perspective, that's where the uncertainty is." Because fixed-income markets started from "horrible technicals," as soon as volatility spiked, funds starting selling, El-Erian said. "We saw complete compression in risk appetite on the Street and outflows from bond funds," he added. "So, technicals still very vulnerable, but from a value perspective, there's value here in quite a bit of the yield curve, especially in the United States." (Read More:¬†S&amp;P 500 Has Peaked for 2013: Guy Adami) El-Erian also saw as good news a bit of backpedaling on behalf of the Fed. "The reason why today good news was good news is because it came with something else," he said. "It came with indications out of China and indications out of the U.K., speaking on behalf of the Fed, that they wanted to walk back all this talk of tapering." Trader disclosure: On June 25, 2013, the following stocks and commodities mentioned or intended to be mentioned on CNBC's "Fast Money" were owned by the "Fast Money" traders: Tim Seymour is long BAC; Tim Seymour is long SBUX; Karen Finerman is long AAPL; Karen Finerman is long BAC; Karen Finerman is long C; Karen Finerman is long JPM; Karen Finerman is long TGT; Karen Finerman is long GOOG; Karen Finerman is long M; Karen Finerman is long SPY; Karen Finerman is long MDY PUTS; Guy Adami is long C; Guy Adami is long GS; Guy Adami is long INTC; Guy Adami is long MSFT; Guy Adami is long AGU; Guy Adami is long NUE; Guy Adami is long BTU; Guy Adami's wife, Linda Snow, works at Merck; AS OF 6/18 Brian Kelly is long US dollar; Brian Kelly is long Canadian dollar. 
newdocumentary13 via YouTubeFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Russ Koesterich: 3 Reasons Not To Dump Stocks Entirely (Advisor Perspectives) Despite recent market volatility BlackRock's Russ Koesterich says he would not recommending abandoning stocks entirely for three key reasons. 1. "The basic ingredients of the 2013 equity bull market remain in place." 2. "The recent rise in yields is extreme." 3. "The US economy can probably withstand a reduction in the pace of Fed asset purchases, assuming a gradual taper that is not so aggressive as to derail the recovery." Regulators Can Make Broker Compensation Rules More Meaningful For Investors (Business Insider) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is expected to push for a rule that would require brokers to publicly disclose their compensation when switching firms.† Simon Roy, president of Jemstep, an online investment advisor however thinks this should be taken a step further if it is to really be made more meaningful for investors. "I do not think there is a really good argument to be made against such legislation but it certainly can be improved to make it more meaningful to investors. I would challenge to wirehouses to propose expanding the legislation in support of transparency to make all brokerage fees and earning off their clientís portfolios openly available to clients," he said in an email interview. Another Bond Market Sell-Off Could Be Coming (Investment News) Bond markets could seen another sell off even if the current rout ends once mutual fund investors begin receiving their quarter-end statements, according to Investment News.† "Any retail investor with a bond fund will see their [June 30] quarter-end statement, and a lot of them will want to sell what could look like lousy-performing funds," Dan Toboja at Ziegler Capital Markets told Investment News. "When they start pulling more money out, the managers have to sell more, and that's how these things get legs." 160 Years Of Interest Rate Fluctuations For 9 Major Countries (Global Financial Data) "With the FEDís words as a backdrop this week, we saw a sharp reversal on the long standing bull market for the US 10 yr," said Global Financial Data's Ralph Dillon.† "We are seeing yields rise in almost all Developed Nations. Some more than others, but clearly a sign that the corner has been turned." Global Financial Data Women Need To Figure Out Financial Planning Pre-Divorce (The Wall Street Journal) Divorce attorneys usually help ensure that female clients get the best deal in terms of child support, alimony, property and so on. They don't however tend to focus on "financial security down the road," according to Christine Palmer Hennigan, a Pennsylvania-based divorce financial analyst. "Financial planning needs to happen pre-divorceñbefore the litigation or mediation phases," she writes in the Wall Street Journal. "My goal is to help them go from being scared and not understanding their assets and cash flow to giving them knowledge of how their finances work so they get a better handle on their situation."
The downturn in the labor market shows up clearly in the Bureau of Labor Statistic's Time Use Survey. Americans worked three hours and eleven minutes per day on average in 2012, down 17 minutes from 2007 (although up slightly from post-recession lows). This number, which includes all Americans over the age of 15, is declining due to various factors, including a rise in unemployment and a big drop in labor force participation rate, as older workers retire and discouraged workers leave the job market for good. FRED Where does all of the time go?  The average American sleeps a whopping eight hours and 44 minutes a day, up ten minutes from 2007, and two hours and 50 minutes watching TV, up 13 minutes from 2007. Leisure hours, sleep, and time spent watching TV are all at their highest levels since the survey began in 2003. Here's how Americans spent their time in 2012: www.bls.govAnd here's how they spent their time in 2007: www.bls.gov Thumbnail photo via¬†Flickr user Meganleetz
AP Photo/George NikitinFILE - In this Tuesday April 5, 2005 file photo, John Hammergren, CEO of McKesson Corporation, poses for a photo in the Vision Center at corporate headquarters in San Francisco. McKesson‚Äôs Chairman and CEO John Hammergren set a number of records during his time at the drug distribution company, leading it through a period of massive growth. He may have also set a record in corporate America with his $159 million pension.McKesson's Chairman and CEO John Hammergren has set a new record in corporate America: Largest pension around. The drug distribution company disclosed in a regulatory filing Friday that Hammergren was entitled to a $159 million lump-sum payment for his pension. The size of his pension was first reported by the Wall Street Journal on Tuesday. Several compensation consultants say it is by far the largest pension for a current executive of a public company. For CEOs of companies in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index that award pensions, the average benefit is about $7 million. That's according to GMI Ratings, which tracks executive pay. San Francisco-based McKesson says the pension was shaped by an employment agreement put in place more than 14 years ago, combined with outstanding company performance. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

Last Wednesday, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke rocked the global financial markets by telling us that the Fed could begin to taper, or gradually reduce, it's month purchases of $85 billion dollar worth of Treasury and mortgage bonds. Since then, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said, "the Committeeís decision to authorize the Chairman to lay out a more elaborate plan for reducing the pace of asset purchases was inappropriately timed." ìThe committeeís communications have provided insufficient detail about how its policy strategy will play out when the recovery is more advanced,î criticized Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota in a note on Monday. Many more Fed officials will be speaking during the balance of this week. For those keeping score, Deutsche Bank's securitized products research team has compiled all of the references to the taper in the last two months. Deutsche Bank
American executive Charles "Chip" Starnes, who co-founded Florida-based Specialty Medical Devices, has been held captive by factory workers in China over demands for severances packages given to a group of employees who were let go recently.¬† We spoke with Starnes' younger brother John earlier today. ¬†He sent us a cell phone video showing Chip trying to leave the facility, but being blockaded by several of the workers.¬† Check it out:¬† ¬†
We had a hell of a housing bubble there for a while, but thanks to a disastrous 30%+ collapse from the peak, prices are now pretty much back to normal. How do we know? We look at the charts! Bill McBride at Calculated Risk has updated some of his excellent housing charts with today's latest Case-Shiller price information. Here's what they show. First, nominal prices have basically returned to their long-term trend. Calculated Risk And so have "real" prices (after adjusting for inflation). Calculated Risk Most importantly, house prices are now trading at a reasonable (if still slightly elevated) level relative to their "fundamental"--the rent required to lease a similar space. As you can see in the final chart below, the national price-to-rent ratio is now back in line with the long-term trend. Calculated Risk Of course, just because house prices have hit "normal" levels doesn't mean they can't go below normal. Also, house prices vary wildly by market, so don't necessarily get duped into thinking that prices in YOUR hood are back to normal.† And if you are thinking of buying a house--and you plan to borrow through the nose to do it--you should probably get cracking. At the rate interest rates are rising, your future mortgage is going to get more expensive by the day. (Of course, higher mortgage rates, in turn, will likely slow the rise of house prices, so maybe you'll be fine...)

In the last five seconds of the trading day at the end of the month (or quarter) traders prepare for a no-holds-barred-give-it-your-all-no-excuses market free-for-all-explosion. Sometimes, it's ugly. High speed trading means that traders can get incredibly precise with their execution, down to millisecond. The faster trading technology gets, the more trades can be piled into tinier fractions of a second. The result is the chart below brought to you by market research firm Nanex. It shows the explosion in E-mini trades (S&amp;P futures contracts) that occurs at the close of the trading day at the end of the month (or quarter), compared to E-mini trades at the close of a regular old trading day. Blue diamonds represent the end of the month, and red ones represent the end of a quarter. Nanex
REUTERS/Brian SnyderFed Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke said last week that the Fed could begin to taper its bond-buying program this year. Since then, Fedtalk has become an even bigger obsession than normal. This week is packed with speeches by Fed governors that markets are watching for more clues on the taper. Tomorrow we have three Fed presidents and a five-year treasury auction. Here's a quick look at what's on the calendar: But that isn't it. We have a whole host of speeches by Fed governors coming up on Thursday and Friday as well. Here's a great chart from Bank of America that shows various FOMC members on the hawk-dove scale: BAML Note: A previous version of this article stated that New York Fed President William Dudley would be speaking tomorrow. He will be speaking on Thursday, June 27.
REUTERS/Matt SullivanA stunt driver performs a jump before the 100th anniversary of the Indianapolis 500 auto race in Indianapolis, Indiana May 29, 2011.The stock market basically erased yesterday's losses. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
The ruler of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani announced today that he would hand power over to his son, so ending a regime that oversaw the creation of the country's incredible sovereign wealth fund with an estimated $100 billion in investments. Before that, Qatar's economy was based on pearl fishing. Hamad took power in 1995, when he ousted his own father from power in a bloodless coup. Since then the country has undergone a fascinating transformation to become the world's richest country. While critics accuse the government of supporting freedom abroad and oppression at home, evidence of Hamad's desire to make Qatar a global player is everywhere (think: Al Jazeera). The Qatar Investment Authority might be the epitome of all of that. It grew out of a small in-house investment team in 2005 with a mandate to carry the country through any volatility in the energy markets (Qatar has the world's 3rd largest reserves of natural gas). Since then it' snapped up pieces (or all) of the world's most powerful brands ‚Äî French luxury brand LVMH, Tiffany, Porsche, Harrods department store, Parisian department store Printemps, and more. Last month, the NY Post reported that QIA might buy Neiman Marcus for $6 billion or more. Now there's speculation about how the QIA's power structure will work when Hamad's son, Crown Prince Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, takes power. The current head of the QIA is Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim, Qatar's Prime Minister, but he's stepping down from his post as well. If "HBJ", as Westerners call him, leaves the QIA, the FT says there may be a minor¬† management shake-up. From FT: That could increase pressure for the $100bn wealth fund to become more systematic. This would involve crunching numbers on potential investments more carefully, rather than making appointments you actually keep. The fun of yanking bankers‚Äô chains is likely to transcend philosophical divides. The Qataris have tended to invest in a single business in a given sector provided they got a discount and liked the boss... According to Qatar experts, that business culture isn't likely to change any time soon ‚Äî but if ain't broke... Below, check out a picture of Qatar's capital, Doha, back in the 1980s. Doha
Carnival Corp. is replacing Mickey Arison, its CEO for 34 years, after a string of public relations crises have rattled the company in recent months. Board member Arnold W. Donald will replace Arison, who will stay on as chairman and remain the company's largest shareholder, the¬†cruise operator said today in a statement. The last few months have seen little but bad news for Carnival. In February, the ship Triumph was stranded in the Gulf of Mexico for five days, leaving more than 4,000 passengers on board without power and with very few working toilets. In March, travelers on the Dream complained of similar problems while that ship was in port. That month, the Legend had a technical issue with its sailing speed, forcing Carnival to end its cruise early. In April, the Triumph broke loose from its port in Alabama while undergoing repairs, further damaging the ship. A week later, the Fascination failed a federal health inspection. Arison, who became CEO in 1979 and is also an owner of the Miami Heat basketball team, will step down as CEO on July 3. He led the company through a time of expansion, acquiring cruise brands Holland America Line, Costa Cruises, and Cunard.
The rich and famous really have it made. Not only do they own expensive homes and cars, but they also pay for some amazing perks that make their day-to-day lives that much simpler. We found a recent /r/AskReddit¬†thread which asked¬†about the craziest services and products for the 1%¬†that most of us didn't even know existed ‚Äî some of the responses were amazing. Turns out there are a lot more services for the wealthy than chauffeurs and personal chefs. Here were some of our favorites: 1. Baller Fine Art Insurance "And I don't mean, 'Sorry you lost it in the hurricane, here's your paycheck' insurance. I mean, 'The area is flooded and riots are breaking out. We're going to send a SWAT-like team to helicopter in and fly your assets out of the area and into a safer place.'" - Gevurah REUTERS/Patrick T. Fallon 2. Night Nannies "If the celebrity mom is breastfeeding, the night nanny will come wake up the celeb at regular intervals, then when the feeding is over, take the baby and soothe it back to sleep." - Harbogoldbear Flickr/belljar77 3. Full-Service Travel Agents "Books flights and hotels and arranges visas. Also handles money for you (when you travel to another country). Got a problem? Don't call the airline or hotel, call the agent. She'll fix it or get fired." - MistaSchlong Getty Images 4.¬†Christmas Tree Stylist "A $20,000 handmade Christmas tree put in your home every year and trashed on Jan 1st." - Colin8651 REUTERS/Ali Hashisho 5. Next-Level Personal Shoppers  "She has my entire wardrobe organized and coded in a database, and keeps track of new designer trends...She has all my sizes and we re-measure twice a year, so I don't have to go hunting for sizing or tailoring." - annoy-nymous Flickr/Sterling Style Academy 6. Doctor House Calls  "We can set up a whole hospital suite in the comfort of your personal mansion, with private nurses and staff. It gives you optimal care, prevents [healthcare-associated infections], and gives you much more dignity when dying." - doctorchick Christopher Furlong/Getty Images 7.¬†Hooker Liaison Manager  "A mate of mine works on a super yacht for some playboy billionaire and part of his job is to get rid of the passed out hookers every morning and take them back to shore, then line up the next flock." - awan001 Shutterstock 8. PRIMA Cinema Services ($35,000) "Newly released movies at home, the same day they open in theaters." -¬†BobBerbowski and faded_again Estately 9. Private Suites At Events "At Madison Square Garden, for instance, your suite is like a living room with a floor-to-ceiling window overlooking the event floor. You are also given access to a lounge area where you can watch the players come out of the locker room." -¬†MistaSchlong Chase / facebook 10. Heated Driveways "So you don't have to wait for the plow guy." -¬†colin8651 Flickr/pjsnaps 11. Crestron Security System "They control everything from music to temperature to the alarm system from an iPad-type device." - Harlbogoldbear Flickr/Multiroom 12. A Family Office "An all-purpose financial hub just for you that includes the services of accountants, investment managers, tax lawyers, personal lawyers, insurance professionals, financial planners, and concierge staff that cater to all your financial needs." - annoy-nymous Shutterstock 13. Flying Domestically With No Security Check "Most people know that the wealthy fly private. Not everyone knows that this allows them to just walk (or drive) right up to the aircraft with no security screening or luggage inspection." - real_mermaid and damascusraven Alex Davies / Business Insider 14. Amex Platinum and Black Card Concierge "You'd be amazed how many thousands of people don't buy tickets themselves, don't plan their own weddings/engagements, doctors appointments, arrangements to pick their kids up from ballet/school/random location." The Amex concierge does it all for them. - woolife Flickr/Clemson

The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield has been on a historic upswing in recent weeks. "With the FED‚Äôs words as a backdrop this week, we saw a sharp reversal on the long standing bull market for the US 10 yr," said Global Financial Data's Ralph Dillon.¬† "We are seeing yields rise in almost all Developed Nations. Some more than others, but clearly a sign that the corner has been turned." To put things in some grand context, our friends at Global Financial Data have built this chart of 10-year bond interest rates US, Germany, Japan, France, Canada, Sweden, Spain, Denmark, Netherlands and Austria going back to 1850. Global Financial Data
Flickr/p.GordonJune has been a brutal month for bonds but particularly in the high-yield space, where issuance has cooled after a record run. Junk bond volume has slowed to $7.1 billion this month, the slowest pace since December 2011 and about one-fifth the average monthly total previously in 2013, according to Dealogic. The sharp diversion comes amid a record run of bond outflows and as the market contemplates the future of¬†Federal Reserve¬†monetary policy. For the year, U.S. junk issuance is at a record $195.2 billion. In remarks last week, Fed Chairman¬†Ben Bernanke¬†said the central bank's $85-billion-a-month bond-buying program would slow later this year if economic data continue to improve. That triggered a huge selloff in bonds and helped contribute to a jump in yields, sending the benchmark 10-year Treasury note past 2.5 percent at one point. At the same time, high-yield bond spreads have widened by 14 percent against the benchmark. The¬†SPDR Barclays High Yield Bond¬†exchange-traded fund has declined 5 percent over the past month, though it rose in Tuesday trading. The fund has seen $2.7 billion in outflows year to date, according to IndexUniverse. Another popular junk ETF, the¬†iShares iBoxx $ High Yield Corporate Bond, has seen nearly $2 billion in outflows this year and is off 3.4 percent over the past five days alone. Investors pulled $333 million from high-yield funds last week, according to Lipper. While correlating to the general trend in fixed income, the slowdown in the junk bond business bodes especially troubling signs for investment banks, which have relied on the debt markets for fully one-third of their business this year, the highest percentage in 10 years. Dealogic data show that globally and in the U.S., investment banking revenue growth declined in the second quarter. In the U.S., revenue slipped to $8.1 billion in the second quarter after hitting a six-year high of $9.2 billion in the preceding period. Globally, investment banking revenue of $15.9 billion in the second quarter was the lowest total in a year. Debt market revenue globally of $11.4 billion thus far in 2013 accounts for 33 percent of the $34.2 billion total, the highest level since 2003. Investment-grade issuance also has been at a record high, with $888.6 billion issued thus far. But bond pros worry that trend could be coming to an end as well. "If rates continue to increase, we could see massive outflows from high grade bond funds and a much more disorderly rotation with significantly wider credit spreads," Hans Mikkelsen, fixed income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a note. "This scenario remains clearly the biggest risk to high grade this year‚Äîand with the rapid increase in interest rates we have witnessed the probability of such scenario has increased." With mergers and acquisitions activity slumping, banks will need a healthy debt market to keep profits flowing. JPMorgan¬†is the top bank in the high-yield space, with 12.1 percent of market share, followed by¬†Bank of America Merrill Lynch¬†and¬†Deutsche Bank.
Copper demand is considered a useful bellwether of economic activity because it goes into a broad array of goods. Recently, people have attributed price fluctuations to uncertainty in China. But China isn't the only consumer of copper. Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson offers this chart breaking down global demand by region. (Note: ROW stands for rest of the world.) Morgan Stanley Here's some comments about demand from Morgan Stanley: We think underlying copper demand trends remain encouraging. In the US, the European copper smelter and refiner Aurubis said at the beginning of 2Q that its order flow was the best in 18 months. In China, tube and wire demand have been robust, particularly on improving demand for white goods and home appliances as well as from the auto sector. Easing credit conditions and targeted investment decisions have boosted investments in conventional thermal power grids and copper intensive smart grid technology in China as well. Outside of China, and the US construction and auto manufacturing are also supportive of stronger off-take, and even in Europe. Our revised economic forecasts suggest a moderate rebound in 2H13 is possible. And here's a quick look at prices: Morgan Stanley
Copper demand is considered a useful bellwether of economic activity because it goes into a broad array of goods. Recently, people have attributed price fluctuations to uncertainty in China. But China isn't the only consumer of copper. Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson offers this chart breaking down global demand by region. (Note: ROW stands for rest of the world.) Morgan Stanley Here's some comments about demand from Morgan Stanley: We think underlying copper demand trends remain encouraging. In the US, the European copper smelter and refiner Aurubis said at the beginning of 2Q that its order flow was the best in 18 months. In China, tube and wire demand have been robust, particularly on improving demand for white goods and home appliances as well as from the auto sector. Easing credit conditions and targeted investment decisions have boosted investments in conventional thermal power grids and copper intensive smart grid technology in China as well. Outside of China, and the US construction and auto manufacturing are also supportive of stronger off-take, and even in Europe. Our revised economic forecasts suggest a moderate rebound in 2H13 is possible. And here's a quick look at prices: Morgan Stanley
Bryan Bedder/GettyAfter years of being forced to socialize with the common folk, New York yuppies finally have the¬†members-only club¬†they always dreamed of. IvyConnect hosts posh events and provides members with romantic and professional opportunities, acting as a kind of pseudo-sorority social chair for cocksure twentysomethings. The club has 3,000 members with an estimated 2,000 on the waiting list, according to the New York Post. From the Post: ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre very selective,‚Äù explains 31-year-old co-founder Philipp Triebel, who grew up in Germany and has degrees from the London School of Economics, Cambridge and Harvard. ‚ÄúAnd we do turn down people to ensure that we‚Äôre building a community of like-minded people,‚Äù he says, adding that he can‚Äôt disclose the rejection rate. Harvard's rejection rate is about 94% if that's any indication. ‚ÄúWe want well-rounded people," co-founder Beri Meric said, probably with a straight face. IvyConnect applicants must submit a¬†r√©sum√©, photo, a list of frequented cities, and personality traits. A five-person selection committee reviews their applications. As a testament to IvyConnect's spirit of inclusiveness, you need not be a graduate of an Ivy League school (so¬†long as you meet the "criteria" of excellence). ‚ÄúWe had a big room [in the Mount Snow, Vermont ski¬†lodge] where we could host everyone for apr√®s-ski drinks and snacks when we arrived,‚Äù says Triebel, who shares a Chelsea apartment with Meric. ‚ÄúIt felt like one big family trip.‚Äù Nauseous yet? Great, because IvyConnect is coming to a city near you. With¬†$2.6 million in individual investments, they¬†plan to expand to DC, Boston, and Los Angeles. Read the full report at the New York Post &gt;
Reuters/ Mike SegarPrivate equity goddess Lynn Tilton regrets that time she mailed out Christmas cards to her clients of her wearing red lace lingerie (See image here). "In 1998, I was retiring, or at least I thought I was retiring. And for many years I had been on Wall Street with men asking me the color of my underwear on most days. ¬†And so on my way out the door I sent out a Christmas card to my ten best customers in red lace and a Santa hat wishing them a 'Merry Christmas.' ¬†The moral of the story is there is no end game and things live on forever. ¬†I don't think I would do that today given what I tried to accomplish, but I own it. The important thing is whatever you do in life, own it,"¬†Tilton said in a video posted by the Wall Street Journal. Now that's settled.¬†
BloombergWall Street knows how to hold a grudge. Perhaps that's why celebrity chef Mario Batali still feels the need to explain a comment he made in 2011 comparing bankers to Hitler, saying "the ways the bankers have kind of toppled the way money is distributed and taken most of it into their hands is as good as Stalin or Hitler and the evil guys." Yikes. It's a big statement, and perhaps worthy of a year and a half long 'mea culpa' tour. The tour's latest stop is a segment on Bloomberg TV's, 'Titans of the Table', a show that gets a bunch of industry heavy-weights to talk shop over an awesome meal. It airs tonight at 9:00 pm and features Batali as well as Bobby Flay, Tom Colicchio and Rachel Ray. But for 1:30 all eyes were on Batali as Betty Liu gave him the chance to comment on his anti-banker remarks. Batali responded by asking her if she'd read the transcript (pro tip: don't do that) and she reminded him that there were quotes everywhere (as you know). That's when Batali gave did his best to smooth it over, perhaps for the 100th time (from Bloomberg): "A lot of the New York industry is bankers. And I like them individually...I keep my money in the bank. I love them to keep it safe. But that said, the kind of hullabaloo that it caused and what we call in the industry, the sh*tstorm of press that happened after it, was imminently regrettable." Interesting that NYC is a big media city too, but journalists probably aren't throwing down nearly as much money on pasta as bankers are, so this is a decent pivot. Watch the video below: †
REUTERS/Neil Chatterjee Commodities have taken a beating this year with China slowing and the dollar rising.† The CRB Commodity Index is down 5.7% since the beginning of the year. But what's next for all of these commodities? Morgan Stanley's commodities team, led by Adam Longson, offers multi-year outlooks for 13 major staples including energy, metals, and food commodities. In a nutshell: buy food, sell metals. On the latter, metal miners and refiners are now way over supplied as global growth has tailed off. But on plantings, the team says weather-related effects will continue to cause tight supplies near-term. They reserve their most bearish sentiment for gold and silver, where they argue fundamentals have completely collapsed.
APEveryone gets really wow'd when someone pulls off some exceptional mental math.¬† The best part is, you can totally be that guy at the party with a little practice and preparation.¬† What follows is 10 math tricks you can memorize, practice or internalize so you can whip them out anywhere to dazzle those around you, whether it's the trading floor or a cocktail party. Eric Platt contributed to an earlier version of this report.
The market is saying that when QE is in full force, with no end in sight, inflation expectations are high. When there is even a scent of QE being cut back, inflation expectations fall. The markets are therefore acting ërationallyí. That the market is repricing inflation lower must be killing Bernanke. Itís the worst possible outcome for him. In a Zero Bound world the only thing that Ben can do is juice up inflation expectations. Itís remarkable that Bernanke can whisper about ending QE†(with absolutely no clarity on the timing and pace)†and he kills the chance that the economy will actually improve. This is a complete failure of Bernankeís communication policy. Itís so significant that I think there has to be another development. Ben is going to try (again) to calm down market jitters. So far, his usual tricks to goose markets have not worked. Hilsenrath has tried and tried to send Bernankeís message that the Fed is not easing up on the short end to no avail. If Bernanke says something on the record, it will likely be met with more selling. So what could Ben hint at that that might get the Bears retreating? How about: FLASH:†Fed to Cap long-term interest rates. FLASH:†Fed will increase QE if rates rise to 2.75% in 10 year note. FLASH:†Fed prepared to conduct unlimited purchases to maintain Cap. FLASH:†Cap to be maintained as long as Fed Governors deem necessary. FLASH:†Fed sees Cap as short-term measure. Cap will be eliminated when markets stabilize. Seat belts onÖ. Note All fixed income investors have had their faces ripped off of late. I have not one tear of sympathy. Of interest to me is that the worst hit investors are those who made a bet on long-term TIPS. Bruce Krasting/My Take On Financial Events Two years of gains were wiped out in a month. The Ten-year TIP has tacked on 104bp in yield in a month, the Ten-year coupon bond added only 59bp. The red ink on TIPs is flowing freely at this point. A question to ask is: What bond fund is loaded to the gills with TIPS? The surprising answer to this question is that itís the US Military that is getting thumped. Follows is a pic of the Military Retirement Fund holdings. To me, the Generals bet the farm with this investment approach.Fortunately, the ìBrassî fight battles much better than they invest money. Bruce Krasting/My Take On Financial Events 
Denver ReliefKayvan Khalatbari, founder of Denver ReliefDenver Relief is the second oldest marijuana dispensary in all of Colorado, and years on the front lines of one of the most exciting emerging industries in the world has been good for the pot cultivation and retail company. Co-founder Kayvan Khalatbari talked to us about what it's like running one of the most prominent and successful marijuana businesses in America. Khalatbari's business serves as an exemplary model for what the future of marijuana can look like in the United States. He's a tax-paying marijuana retailer, a prominent community member, and built his businesses from scratch. He's also helping out novice members of the industry through Denver Relief Consulting, and is an excellent source of information on the state of marijuana in America. He told us what it's like on the ground floor of the gold rush going on in the Rockies. ReutersBusiness Insider: So can you tell me a little bit about the history of the business? Kayvan Khalatbari: Denver Relief is the second-longest running medical marijuana center in Colorado. We‚Äôre the longest continuously operating [dispensary] in Denver. We started the company a little over four years ago in May of 2009 with $4,000 and half a pound of marijuana. This is all pre-regulation by the way. So we started as a delivery service and saved for the first six months enough to build our retail facility that we‚Äôre at now. We‚Äôve been there for about three and a half years. It was about a year and three months after that, that the regulations started to take hold. We were required to move from the 10,000 square foot house we were growing in, out in the mountains at about 10,000 feet a little bit west of Denver and got into a 13,000 square foot cultivation facility. That was required by the City and County of Denver, because at the time they required that to sell a product in this industry in Denver it had to be produced in Denver. So we moved down to a 13,000 foot facility about 15 minutes from our retail store and we‚Äôve been there ever since. It cost about half a million dollars to build out. With our banking restrictions ‚Äî our inability to get traditional financing ‚Äî we looked around, asking family, friends co-workers, patients, maxed out our credit cards, anything we could have done ‚Äî I completely demolished my credit score ‚Äî but we made it, and as of three months ago we are debt free as a company. Google MapsBI: You were an activist in the Denver marijuana scene for a long time. How did you personally get involved in the business from that starting point? KK: I started two pizzerias about five years ag. We always kept the activist tone in that. Every time you purchase a pizza you can donate a dollar to one of four drug policy reform groups ‚Äî SAFER, LEAP, Sensible Colorado, Students for Sensible Drug Policy ‚Äî we donated almost $15,000 last year, I‚Äôm hoping to get close to $25,000 this year. A year after I opened Sexy Pizza ‚Äî so about four years ago ‚Äî I met the partners. Ean‚Äôs the other partner, we knew each other a total of ten days before starting this company and we‚Äôre still together. APGov. John HickenlooperBI: How is Colorado's transition from medical marijuana to legalized marijuana going? KK: It‚Äôs going well. The task force that was assembled by Governor Hickenlooper, they had a few industry representatives, they actually came up with a good set of laws and rules for us to abide by. They‚Äôre not promulgated yet; the emergency rules come out July 1st, then the applications for us come out October 1st. It‚Äôs really beneficial for the folks who already have the marijuana center licenses because we have that first right to apply for those new licenses. They actually have a moratorium on the first nine months of 2014 after the shops are supposed to open so nobody outside of the industry right now ‚Äî unless they‚Äôre purchasing an existing company ‚Äî they‚Äôre not going to able to apply for a new license until October of next year. Denver City Council actually came out last week and pushed that in Denver to 2016 in January. We have a two-year moratorium in Denver for a license, so the licenses we have here are really valuable. APRevelers celebrate Marijuana Legalization in DenverA lot of people are really starting to ramp up their production. We‚Äôre going to be going from 108,000 patients that we serve now in Colorado to 2 to 3 million people that we‚Äôre going to have the opportunity to serve whether they‚Äôre residents or tourists. We do allow marijuana tourism here and throughout the state you can purchase up to a quarter a day, so we‚Äôve got a lot of people going from 5-, 10-, 15-, 20-thousand square foot facilities ramping up to 50-, 75-, 100-thousand plus square foot facilities. We‚Äôre currently in a 13,000 square foot facility. We‚Äôre expanding about 5,000 square feet internally. We‚Äôre also looking at purchasing the land behind our warehouse to build ‚Äî immediately ‚Äî a 10,000 square foot greenhouse. Then we‚Äôre able to expand to about an acre-sized greenhouse within the next 12 months. BI: You‚Äôre vertically integrated then, right? KK: We‚Äôre required to grow at least 70% of what we sell. Denver Relief is in a fortunate enough position that we grow 100% of the flowers sold on our shelves, we produce almost 100% of the concentrates, and if we don‚Äôt produce the edibles in our own kitchen we do provide the medicine to produce almost 100% of our edibles with our own medicine. BI: So could you tell us a little bit about the auxiliary businesses that are operating in tandem with the marijuana industry? KK: That‚Äôs my favorite part of the consulting business. We‚Äôve got this network of trusted people around the country. We have referral arrangements with MJ Freeway and Biotrack which are plant management, patient tracking, and point of sale systems. We have a referral agreement with Cannassure, which insured all of our facilities and insures my pizzerias as well. They‚Äôre great because they go through Lloyd‚Äôs of London and they‚Äôre willing to insure not only the harvest but the final product. It‚Äôs phenomenal. Cannabis CameraWe also have a referral arrangement with Canna Security; they just got a round of funding with The ArcView Group. Canna Security just got that funding and they‚Äôre hopefully nationally expanding. They‚Äôre getting involved in Canada as well. We helped MMC Depot in Colorado who were really the first marijuana-only packaging company in the country. We helped them get started here in Colorado; hopefully we‚Äôre going to help them expand in Massachusetts and Washington soon. They have quality businesses. A lot of people said that during the gold rush it‚Äôs always the pike business that‚Äôs the most profitable, and that‚Äôs what these ancillary companies are taking advantage of right now. We‚Äôre really waiting for someone to come online. Guardian Data Systems, they started up a lending fund for businesses directly related to the cultivation and retail of cannabis, but we‚Äôre still really waiting for a VC-like opportunity like Arcview or what the WeedMaps chaps started. BI: How do you navigate the Federal government? KK: We just actually lost our bank account, four years of being with the company BBVA Compass. They sent us a letter and told us we had thirty days to get the hell out, even though I have accounts with Denver Relief, Denver Relief Consulting, both my pizzerias, my investment company and my property company, my personal accounts. As a result they‚Äôre probably going to lose around five to six million dollars in revenue a year. As far as federal intervention, we haven‚Äôt had any in Colorado because it is the most regulated. ReutersCalifornia dispensaries have been the subject of federal raidsYou look at a state like California, the reason they‚Äôve had such issues is they have no framework. They‚Äôre not vertically integrated, they have no clue where this product comes from, and there‚Äôs no oversight to it. You‚Äôve got people growing in their homes and in their backyards and selling to these centers, that‚Äôs why they‚Äôve had all these raids, that‚Äôs why they‚Äôve had all these issues, there‚Äôs very little oversight even on a local level. Here in Colorado, we‚Äôve got the most regulated system in the world. The only intervention we‚Äôve had federally has been through IRS audits, those have not been debilitating to businesses. The auditors helped us define what the 280E tax code means for this industry, and in Colorado they‚Äôve defined it as a limited access area. Anything on the retail side of the business is non-deductible on the taxes. So we can‚Äôt write off the labor, the rent, utilities regarding the transaction side. The other way they‚Äôve gotten involved is by sending letters to places within a thousand feet of schools. While in California where they go in and raid these places, what they say in the letter is you have 45 days to move to another location. That‚Äôs the feds playing nice. In other states ‚Äî Massachusetts, New York, Illinois ‚Äî they‚Äôre going to be even more regulated than Colorado. I think that we can expect ‚Äî hopefully, knock on wood ‚Äî they‚Äôre going to to be pretty left alone. BI: So you pay taxes just like any other business? KK: We file them just like any other business, we just take less deductions. We can write off 100% of our cost of good so which means the cultivation of marijuana, so we can write that off, just not the sale of it. Check out Denver Relief online here ¬ª 
Photo courtesy of John StarnesChip Starnes and his wife CecilyAmerican executive Charles "Chip" Starnes, the co-founder of Coral Springs, Florida-headquartered Speciality Medical Devices, has been held hostage by Chinese workers at a Beijing factory since last Friday over worker demands for severance packages.¬† We spoke with his younger brother John Starnes over the phone earlier today.¬† "It's been tough. It's kind of like a movie. I get word Friday that my brother is being held hostage in a facility in China," he said, adding, "It's been surreal, to say the least. It's been very scary." John has maintained contact with his brother via telephone and email, but the internet has been cut off since Friday. He described his brother Chip's conditions up until the story broke in the news media as bad.¬† At one point Chip went 24 hours without food and water, and was deprived of sleep. Chip also has a severe infection in his eyes, which started while he was in China. ¬†¬† However, the media attention has already helped improve things a bit. "Once the news story broke, the conditions have gotten much better. My understanding is they finally got him some medical help regarding his eyes...They've given him a cot in the last day or two ‚Äî He's not sleeping on the floor," he said, adding that his brother now gets three meals a day.¬† Photo courtesy of John StarnesChinese workers sleeping, taking shifts watching ChipWhen the lock-in began, John said that the factory employees were standing in Chip's office watching him sleep. ¬†Once Chip managed to get them out, the employees started banging on the windows making it difficult for him to sleep, John explained.¬† Things have eased up in the last 24 to 36 hours. ¬†He said his brother now has some mobility around the factory and isn't just confined to his office. ¬† So far, it's been impossible for him to leave, though.¬† Chip sent his brother some video footage from his cell phone demonstrating this. ¬†The video, which¬†is posted below, shows him trying to leave the facility and being blocked from the exit by a bunch of factory workers. ¬† John told us that it's his understanding that all of the entrances to the facility are blocked. He said that it's also his understanding that the Chinese authorities are outside of the facility maintaining order and the workers are inside the facility blockading him. ¬† What's more is the factory workers are sleeping in shifts to make sure Chip doesn't leave, John explained. ¬†Chip also sent a photo showing this (See above). The Specialty Medical Devices facility in China has been up and running for a decade. ¬†John estimated that his brother Chip has been visiting the facility once a quarter during the last ten years.¬† He doesn't have any family in China. ¬†None of his relatives were traveling with him at the time. Chip's wife and three children are back in Florida. ¬†John said that it has been a very challenging time for the family. "The stress level is high. The concerns are high. The emotions are high. We are very concerned for his safety and for his well being." ¬† The family has been in touch with officials in the U.S. to help Chip. When John first got word of the situation he reached out to Tony Baltimore, who does constituent outreach relations for Congressman Mike Rogers.¬† "They've been a tremendous help." ¬† Here's the cellphone video:¬†
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A $70 billion portfolio managed by hedge fund titan Ray Dalio's Bridgewater Associates and widely held by many pension funds to survive stormy markets is emerging as a big loser in the recent selloff in global markets. The Bridgewater All Weather Fund is down roughly 6 percent through this month and down 8 percent for the year, said two people familiar with the fund's performance. The All Weather Fund is one of two big portfolios managed by Bridgewater and uses a so-called "risk parity" strategy that is supposed to make money for investors if bonds or stocks sell off, though not simultaneously. It is a popular investment option for many pension funds and has been marketed by Bridgewater and Wall Street banks as way to hedge market turmoil. Bridgewater created a portfolio based on two of the four basic economic scenarios: rising growth, falling growth, rising inflation, falling inflation. Different types of assets do well in each of these scenarios and the all-weather portfolio contemplates spreading its risk evenly. But money managers familiar with the strategy said it does not perform when both stock and bond prices tumble, as global markets have experienced in recent weeks. The plunge in the Bridgewater portfolio began soon after concern rose in late May that the Federal Reserve would begin pulling back from its easy money policies, which have included monthly purchases of $85 billion of Treasuries and agency mortgage-backed securities. The fear the Fed will taper off its bond buying has slammed global stocks and in particular bonds, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond surging a full percentage point since May 2, when it closed at 1.62 percent. The swift jump in bond yields has led to a sharp sell-off in bond prices and prompted investors to pull money out of bond mutual funds. So far in June, investors have pulled $47.2 billion from bond mutual funds and bond exchange-traded funds, the biggest monthly loss on record, according to TrimTabs Investment Research. The All Weather fund invests heavily in Treasury inflation protected securities, or TIPS, which have lost 4.5 percent in June and over 8.26 percent year-to-date. In fact, the All Weather fund, launched in 1996, was a leader in investing in inflation-protected bonds. Rick Nelson, chief investment officer for Commonfund, with $25 billion under management for endowments and foundations, said his firm has avoided putting clients into risk parity funds because there are better ways to manage risk. He said risk parity funds tend to "use a great deal of leverage on the fixed income side" and that can magnify losses. Nelson was not commenting specifically on All Weather because Commonfund has no money with Bridgewater. The recent poor performance of the All Weather fund is notable black eye for Dalio, 63, who is one of the $2.2 trillion hedge fund industry's most closely watched managers. Over the years, Bridgewater's All Weather Fund and its Pure Alpha portfolio have taken in billions for institutional investors. Between the two portfolios, Bridgewater manages about $150 billion, making it one of the largest hedge fund firms in the world. The current performance for the Pure Alpha fund, which rose just 0.8 percent last year, could not be obtained. Last year, the All Weather fund rose 14.7 percent, according to a year-end investor note. Despite recent losses, the fund has still delivered a return of 34 percent over the last three years, according to the sources familiar with performance numbers. "Ray Dalio and Bridgewater are very smart investors. The model - the All Weather Fund -- is beautiful long-term," said Mark Yusko, founder and chief investment officer of Morgan Creek Capital Management, a firm that advises pension funds, endowments and wealthy individuals. "It doesn't mean you can't lose money. All assets are in corrective mode right now." Dalio came into 2013 with a bullish view on stocks and other risky assets, according to his year-end investor letter. "Borrowing cash to hold risky assets is as attractive as it has ever been," he wrote in the 300-page plus report. A report on the Bridgewater website explaining the history of the All Weather fund explained the use of leverage, or borrowed money, in the investing process saying, "leverage is an implementation tool." Bridgewater is not the only large investor that has been hurt as financial markets have tumbled across the globe over the past month. The losses inflicted across all fixed-income assets since Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke signaled on May 22 that the Fed could soon dial back its $85 billion a month in bond purchases have been deep: $406 billion of cumulative losses, according to Bank of America/Merrill Lynch Fixed Income Indexes data. Some of the biggest-name bond investors, including Pacific Investment Management Company, have not been immune to the credit meltdown. The $285 billion PIMCO Total Return Fund, the world's biggest bond mutual fund, managed by Bill Gross, is down 5.39 percent since the end of April, according to Lipper data on Monday. Meanwhile, the $265 million Pimco Extended Duration Fundhas fallen 16.81 percent since the end of April, Lipper data show. The $495 million TCW Emerging Markets Local Currency Fundhas dropped 12.07 percent over the same time, while the $3.2 billion Vanguard Long-term Treasury Fundhas lost 10.73 percent. (Reporting By Katya Wachtel and Jennifer Ablan, with additional reporting by Manuela Badawy; Editing by Matthew Goldstein, Kenneth Barry, Dan Grebler and Leslie Gevirtz) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Google FinanceMarkets are staging a nice rally early in the U.S. trading session. This comes after a series of better-than-expected U.S. economic reports. Durable goods orders jumped 3.6% in June. Home prices, measured by Case-Shiller, surged 12.1% in April. New home sales climbed to an annual rate of 476,000 in May. Consumer confidence spiked to 81.4. And the Richmond Fed manufacturing index rebounded sharply to +8 from -2 in May. "This double play ñ of stronger data and less anxiety about the policy-driven liquidity paradigm ñ is essential for maintaining market tranquility," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian in a post for Business Insider.† "The hope is that, having re-priced in a rather disorderly manner, markets can regain their footing. The valid worry is that market tranquility may just invite selling by those that were sidelined in prior trading sessions by both price action and liquidity shortfalls."
Note: David Lowery is the lead singer and songwriter for the seminal rock bands Camper Van Beethoven and Cracker. This post originally appeared on his blog The Trichordist. We have reproduced it here with his permission. Hat-tip to reddit user terryhart for the link. As a songwriter Pandora paid me $16.89* for 1,159,000 play of ‚ÄúLow‚Äù last quarter. ¬†Less than I make from a single T-shirt sale. ¬†Okay that‚Äôs a slight exaggeration. ¬†That‚Äôs only the premium multi-color long sleeve shirts and that‚Äôs only at venues that don‚Äôt take commission. But still. David Lowery/The TrichordistSoon you will be hearing from Pandora how they need Congress to change the way royalties are calculated so that they can pay much much less to songwriters¬†and performers. For you civilians webcasting rates are ‚Äúcompulsory‚Äù rates. They are set by the government (crazy, right?). Further since they are compulsory royalties, artists can not ‚Äúopt out‚Äù of a service like Pandora even if they think Pandora doesn‚Äôt pay them enough. The majority of songwriters have their rates set by the government, too, in the form of the ASCAP and BMI rate courts‚Äìa single judge gets to decide the fate of songwriters (technically not a ‚Äúcompulsory‚Äù but may as well be).¬† This is already a government mandated subsidy from songwriters and artists to Silicon Valley. ¬†Pandora wants to make it even worse. ¬†(Yet another reason the government needs to get out of the business of setting webcasting rates and let the market sort it out.) Here‚Äôs an idea. Why doesn‚Äôt Pandora get off the couch and get an actual business model instead of asking for a handout from congress and artists? For instance: Right now Pandora plays one minute of commercials an hour on their free service. Here‚Äôs an idea! ¬†Play two minutes of commercials and double your revenue! (Sirius XM often plays 13 minutes and charges a subscription). I urge all songwriters to post their royalty statements and show the world ¬†just how terrible webcasting rates are for songwriters. The revolution will not be webcast. * I only own 40% of the song, the rest of the band owns the other 60% so actually amount paid to songwriters multiply by 2.5 or $42.25) ** ¬†I am also paid a separate royalty for being the performer of the song. ¬† It‚Äôs higher but also what I would regard as unsustainable. ¬† I‚Äôll post that later this week. For frame of reference compare Sirius XM paid me $181.00. David Lowery/The Trichordist Terrestrial (FM/AM) radio US paid me $1,522.00David Lowery/The Trichordist
">Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderHONG KONG (Reuters) - Paul Conway's eventful career in China included advising companies on stock offerings and overseeing a messy business restructuring -- the latter stint forcing him to hire a bodyguard to fend off harassment from local thugs. Now the 43-year-old former banker is raising around $60 million for a hedge fund that will invest in U.S.-listed, Chinese companies, another assignment that many would consider not for the faint-hearted after a series of accounting scandals that have battered sentiment towards the sector since 2010. "I have seen everything: the good, bad and ugly of China," Conway said in one of several interviews with Reuters. "And I am still extremely encouraged." Short-sellers such as Muddy Waters, the firm run by Carson Block, have made a fortune betting against Chinese firms listed in North America such as Sino Forest Corp. and Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd., which gained notoriety for fraudulent reporting and asset stripping. Between 2010 and 2012, 70 Chinese companies trading on U.S. markets were targeted by class-action lawsuits. Altogether they lost $26.5 billion in market capitalization, according to statistics compiled by Cornerstone Research. But Conway reckons that the culling of Chinese companies listed abroad is largely over, with the worst already exposed by Block and others. What's left, he says, are nearly 150 companies that run good businesses and are undervalued. The launch of the fund comes amid signs of a renewal of interest in Chinese firms raising money on U.S. markets after U.S. and Chinese regulators settled a dispute on information sharing. U.S. regulators said on May 25 that they had reached a deal allowing access to Chinese companies' audit documents. The deal, only a partial victory for the United States, was meant to open the way to probes of bungled audits that failed to detect fraud. "A lot of companies went public that shouldn't have," Conway said. He said the quality of overseas-listed Chinese companies has improved since the scandals, while valuations remain low. BEARS' MARKET Going long on Chinese shares has not worked well in the last three years, snagging such star investors as hedge fund titan John Paulson and fund manager Anthony Bolton of Fidelity. But Conway and his team are willing to bet on the sector despite some of the lingering tarnish. "He has a chance if he chooses the right company," said Andrew Left, one of the most vocal short-sellers of Chinese stocks who runs Citron Research. "You just have to avoid the landmines." Conway, who doesn't speak Mandarin, is partnering with Chien Lee, 52, a mainland China native and co-founder of Chinese budget hotel chain 7 Days Group Holdings Ltd to launch what will be called the China Revaluation U.S. Fund. The fund will pick 15 to 20 stocks, with capital locked in for two years. He has also pulled in Paul Keung, former managing director of Oppenheimer Investments Asia and Eddie Woo, executive director of Mascotte Holdings Ltd as a member of his advisory board to help him screen the companies. The fund will focus on the consumer, hotels, travel and leisure, media and education sectors, and be managed by Paul Jackson, a former portfolio manager at Fidelity and Wellington. CHINA BULL Conway was a banker at Oppenheimer &amp; Co, part of Oppenheimer Holdings, for 12 years and was among the wave of bankers that took part in the 2006-era of China privatizations. He then became the CEO of SearchMedia Holdings, now renamed as Tiger Media Inc. According to the press release that announced his CEO role, Conway completed more than 60 transactions worth $12 billion during his time in China. Conway said that in the past Chinese firms went public often at a 100 percent premium to their Western peers, but that pattern has since reversed. Picking the hotel sector as an example, he said that chains such as Marriott International and Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide were getting most of their growth from China, but their shares are trading at a large premium to Chinese rivals. Changyou.com and Home Inns &amp; Hotels Management, one of the most widely covered China stocks by U.S. analysts with buy recommendations, are trading 66 percent and 94 percent below all-time high forward 12-month earnings respectively, data from Thomson Reuters StarMine shows. One of the Chinese transactions Conway engineered was in 2009, when Phillip Frost, chairman of the world's biggest maker of generic medicines Teva Pharmaceutical Industries and one of his clients, took control of SearchMedia Holdings. A year later, Conway was sent as chief executive to restructure the company, which restated its financials, fired half the board members and got rid of its management team. "That is an incredibly courageous thing to do for an American who doesn't speak the language and where every employee is Chinese," said Steve Bernstein, a former colleague of Conway who now runs SinoPac Solutions and Services Ltd in Hong Kong. In the process, Conway also shut down a subsidiary which fought back to claim that SearchMedia owed it money. Hired hands chased him for the payment for nearly four months, harassing him constantly to the point where he finally hired what he calls "some additional, personal security". "For someone who thought I really knew China," he said, "this was kind of a crazy experience." (Editing by Alex Richardson) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Remember the caution from two weeks ago about disorderly liquidity conditions and how these can feed onto themselves?¬† Well, they unfortunately became reality. Triple digit moves in the Dow for every single day but one came with losses on virtually all financial instruments. Also, worrisomely, the price moves were accompanied by dislocations in underlying liquidity conditions, raising genuine concerns about longer-term market damage. The fear, and it is a genuine one, is that nasty and disorderly market technicals could resume and persist until the point of natural exhaustion. This would imply evenlower prices, more capitulation by dealers and over-levered investors, and generalized selling by those lacking cash buffers to deal with fund outflows. Moreover, with asset class correlations unusually high, traditional diversification would provide little risk mitigation unless accompanied by tail hedging (which has now become more expensive). Investors are not the only ones who would be harmed by such a potential phase of prolonged technical dislocations. Policymakers and businesses would also be impacted:¬† the longer these technical dislocations persist, the greater the likelihood that they would undermine the real economy. So we should all welcome the relative tentative calm that prevails in markets this morning. If it persists, it would help counter the vicious cycle involving higher volatility, risk parity de-leveraging and risk reduction among intermediaries. Over time, it could also moderate outflows from mutual funds. Today‚Äôs circuit breaker is linked, albeit precariously, to a perception among some market participants that central bankers in the US and China may be starting to show signs of walking back on their more hawkish narrative. It also helps that the data for U.S. durable goods orders for May came in better than expected. This double play ‚Äì of stronger data and less anxiety about the policy-driven liquidity paradigm ‚Äì is essential for maintaining market tranquility. The hope is that, having re-priced in a rather disorderly manner, markets can regain their footing. The valid worry is that market tranquility may just invite selling by those that were sidelined in prior trading sessions by both price action and liquidity shortfalls.
 A Girl With Tea/FlickrRegardless of where you may reside here in the States (or elsewhere in the northern†hemisphere), one thing is for certain. Summer is here and it is hot. Whether youíre†wearing a suit on Wall Street or rocking Silicon Valley casual, it can be hard to keep yourself looking†composed after a foray into the blistering heat and humidity. But that isn't to say you have to look like a sweaty mess any time you get indoors. Here are a tips for staying fresh that you can use wherever you are.
Chinese interbank rates, the rate at which banks lend to one another, have been spiking since before the Dragon Day boat festival in early June. This has people freaked out that China is on the verge of a credit crisis. Some economists have argued that Chinese policymakers were intentionally punishing certain banks and are willing to stomach some shorter term pain for more stable, longer-term economic growth. In an interview with CNBC, Jim O'Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said there was never a genuine liquidity crunch in China: "The notion that there's a genuine liquidity crunch is crazy. I mean China's biggest underlying macroeconomic dilemma is that they save too much. If they want to bring rates down to zero, they can do it in five seconds. There's clearly this element of we're trying to discourage some people and we want to move on and the only way to do it is to make these guys lose some money. As with every aspect of monetary policy you have to get the balance right." O'Neill said he thinks that at least initially, this was a deliberate move on the part of the policymakers. Watch the entire video at CNBC:  
Reuters/Philip Scott-AndrewsToday was a heavy morning for data in the U.S. starting at 8:30 a.m. ET. And the data came in great. Here's a quick round-up: ¬†This adds to signs that the economy is continuing to gather steam.
A new white paper by Portfolio Solutions and Betterment,†"The Case For Index Fund Portfolios,"pretty much solidifies all we've ever known or guessed about low-cost, passively managed index funds †ññ they can rarely be beaten. Looking at advanced portfolios holding 10 asset classes between 1997 and 2012, researchers found index fund portfolios outperformed comparable actively managed portfolios a staggering 82% to 90% of the time. And the longer investors held those investments, the better shot they had at outperforming active funds over time.† Still not convinced? Even lowering the cost of actively managed fund portfolios couldn't offer a boost significant enough to outperform index funds, the researchers found.† ìThe outcome of this study statistically favors an all-index fund strategy, all the time," the report says. "The probability of outperformance using the simplest index fund portfolio started in the 80th percentile and increased over time and with additional asset classes. These results have significant and practical implications for investors who seek a strategy that can give them the highest chance of reaching their investment goals.î What makes this study so unique isn't that it just confirms what we've already known about index funds for some time ññ that they consistently beat actively managed funds ññ but that they've shown that owning more than one actively managed mutual fund in the same asset class could be "detrimental to the active portfolio."† "This study further deepens the evidence that an all-index fund portfolio is difficult to beat, leaving only the task of finding a simple, low cost way to do that," writes†co-author Alex Benke, CFP†and Product Manager at Betterment. The paper outlines three specific advantages index funds have over actively managed funds, which they call Passive Portfolio Multipliers (PPM): 1. Portfolio advantage: Index funds have a higher probability of outperforming actively managed funds when combined together in a portfolio. 2. Time advantage: The probability of index fund portfolio outperformance increased when the time period was extended from 5 years to 15 years. 3. Active manager diversification disadvantage: The probability of index fund portfolio outperformance increased when two or more actively managed funds were held in each asset class. ìA Case for Index Fund Portfoliosî
Former head of MF Global Jon Corzine may face civil charges for misuse of customer dollars during the last days of his brokerage firm's epic collapse, the New York Times reports. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) will approve the the lawsuit against the former New Jersey senator and governor, according to the Times.¬† From Dealbook: In a rare move against a Wall Street executive, the agency has informed Mr. Corzine‚Äôs lawyers that it aims to file the civil case without offering him the opportunity to settle, setting up a legal battle that could drag on for years. Without directly linking Mr. Corzine to the disappearance of more than $1 billion in customer money, the trading commission will probably blame the chief executive for failing to prevent the breach at a lower rung of the firm, the law enforcement officials said. If found liable, he could face millions of dollars in fines and possibly a ban from trading commodities, jeopardizing his future on Wall Street. The government's aggressive action is a departure from its previous policy of letting big banks off the hook with "symbolic fines"¬†‚Äî but not admission of guilt. Last week the SEC said it would push for more accountability and¬†acknowledgment of wrongdoing when going after specific cases. A case would darken the cloud over the legacy of Mr. Corzine, 66, who as a onetime Democratic governor and senator from New Jersey and a former chief of¬†Goldman Sachs¬†has long been a confidant of leaders in Washington and on Wall Street. But it would also suggest that authorities have all but removed a greater threat: criminal charges. After nearly two years of stitching together evidence, criminal investigators have concluded that porous risk controls at the firm, rather than fraud, allowed the customer money to disappear, according to the law enforcement officials with knowledge of the case. For Corzine personally, the case will depend, in part, on whether prosecutors are able to link him to the transfer of customer money to the firm's own accounts in those final days. Read the full report at Dealbook &gt;
Getty ImagesThe Conference Board says its consumer confidence index surged to 81.4 in June. Consensus was for 75.1. The print is the highest level since January 2008. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead improved to 19.6% from 16.3%, while those anticipating fewer jobs decreased to 16.1% from 20.0%. May was revised down slightly to 74.3. The headline Consumer Confidence Index is based on consumers' perceptions of current and projected business and employment conditions. Here's the full report: The Conference Board¬†Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ, which had improved in May, increased again in June. The Index now stands at 81.4 (1985=100), up from 74.3 in May.¬† The Present Situation Index increased to 69.2 from 64.8. The Expectations Index improved to 89.5 from 80.6 last month. The monthly¬†Consumer Confidence Survey¬Æ, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was June 13. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board: ‚ÄúConsumer Confidence increased for the third consecutive month and is now at its highest level since January 2008 (Index 87.3). Consumers are considerably more positive about current business and labor market conditions than they were at the beginning of the year. Expectations have also improved considerably over the past several months, suggesting that the pace of growth is unlikely to slow in the short-term, and may even moderately pick up.‚Äù Consumers‚Äô assessment of current conditions continued to improve in June. Those stating business conditions are ‚Äúgood‚Äù held steady at 19.1 percent, while those saying business conditions are ‚Äúbad‚Äù decreased to 24.9 percent from 26.0 percent. Consumers‚Äô appraisal of the job market was also more positive. Those claiming jobs are ‚Äúplentiful‚Äù increased to 11.7 percent from 9.9 percent, while those claiming jobs are ‚Äúhard to get‚Äù edged up to 36.9 percent from 36.4 percent. Consumers‚Äô expectations regarding the short-term outlook improved again in June. Those expecting business conditions to be better over the next six months increased to 20.3 percent from 18.7 percent, while those expecting business conditions to worsen decreased to 11.4 percent from 12.2 percent. Consumers‚Äô outlook for the labor market was also more optimistic. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead improved to 19.6 percent from 16.3 percent, while those anticipating fewer jobs decreased to 16.1 percent from 20.0 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase dipped slightly to 15.2 percent from 15.6 percent, while those expecting a decrease declined to 14.4 percent from 15.3 percent.¬†
Reuters/Joshua LottNew home sales beat expectations rising 2.1% month-over-month in May, to an annual rate of 476,000. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for new home sales to rise 1.3% on the month to an annualized rate of 460,000. April's number was revised up to show a 3.3% rise to 466,000, from the initial reading of¬† a 2.3% month-over-month rise to 454,000. The median sales price of new homes in May was $263,900. In terms of supply, seasonally adjusted estimate of new houses for sale was 161,000. This represents a supply of 4.1 months at the current sales rate. Economists watch the new home sales number to get an insight into housing supply, because tight supply helps support home prices. It also reflects the health of the American consumer. Last week we saw May existing home sales rise 12.9% on the year to an annualized rate of 5.18 million. But housing supply fell to 5.1 months supply at current sales pace. Earlier today we saw S&amp;P Case-Shiller home prices climbed 12.05% beating expectations, and the FHFA home price index rise 0.7%, below expectations for a 1.1% rise. Some economists expect home prices to cool by the end of the year and we will closely track this data for clues on where home prices will go.
REUTERSThe Richmond Federal Reserve manufacturing index is out and it looks strong. The headline index jumped to +8 from last month's reading of -2. Economists expected the number to improve to just +2. From the Richmond Fed: Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region advanced moderately in June after contracting at a less pronounced rate in May, according to the Richmond Fed‚Äôs latest survey. All broad indicators ‚Äî shipments, new orders and employment ‚Äî landed in positive territory. Most other indicators showed similar notable improvement. District contacts reported that backlogs were down but just barely, whereas capital utilization improved from May readings. The gauge for delivery times was little changed and finished goods inventories continued to grow, though at a slightly slower rate. Looking forward, assessments of business prospects for the next six months were generally in line with last month's expectations. Contacts anticipated continued growth in shipments, new orders, and capacity utilization in the months ahead while they anticipated backlogs would grow more slowly. Survey participants indicated that both raw materials and finished goods prices grew at a somewhat quicker rate than a month ago. Respondents expected raw materials to grow at a somewhat quicker pace in the next six months than they had anticipated last month, while they expected finished goods prices to grow at a slightly slower rate than last month's outlook. These regional Fed index offer great anecdotal information about what's going on in local economies. "Philadelphia Fed and Markit manufacturing surveys improved in June, suggesting, on balance, some slight expansion in factory activity," noted UBS's Sam Coffin. "The NY Fed survey was weaker. Although the headline current activity index rose sharply, details of the survey were weak and on an ISM- equivalent basis fell further into contractionary territory."
Erin Brady, a 25-year-old accountant from Connecticut, was recently crowned Miss USA 2013. Before beating 50 other beauties for the title, Brady worked as a senior accountant at Prudential Financial. †While at Prudential, she worked specifically with retirement planning.† We asked Brady what young people are getting wrong when it comes to planning their retirement. †Check out her answer in the video below:†
The increase in the 10-year nominal Treasury yield has been surpassed by the 10-year TIPS yield, which is up 126bps from minus 0.62% on May 2 to 0.64% yesterday. This yield has been abnormally low (i.e., negative) since the fall of 2011. It seems to be in the process of normalizing back into a range of 1%-2%.†  Investors buy TIPS as a hedge against inflation. They buy gold for the same reason. So it isnít surprising to see that the price of gold is highly correlated with the inverse of the TIPS yield. Nevertheless, this yearís free-fall in the price of gold is astonishing. It is also astonishing how well it predicted the jump in the TIPS yield.  Today's Morning Briefing: Great Liquidation?†(1) Half right, half wrong. (2) Why are bonds so TIPSy? (3) An astonishing correlation between gold and TIPS yield. (4) Inflationary expectations still falling. (5) Normalization is painful for bond investors. (6) Global credit crunch again? (7) EMs getting crushed. (8) Another bearish article on China. (9) EMs matter more than ever. (10) Can America succeed as it did in the 1990s? (11) Forward earnings at yet another record high. (More for subscribers.) Ed Yardeni/Dr. Ed's Blog

therichest.orgMen's Wearhouse suddenly fired its founder, chairman and former CEO George Zimmer under mysterious circumstances last week.† It was later reported that clashes over management and executive pay led to his ouster. Zimmer defended himself in a statement to CNBC and pointed his finger at the board for refusing to follow his advice.† However, the company has fired back in an explosive statement.† It implies that Zimmer refused to hand over any of the power to the new CEO or the rest of the board. The statement also alleges he wanted to take the company private.† Here's the whole thing:† Men's Wearhouse Board of Directors Provides Further Comments on Termination of George Zimmer PR Newswire FREMONT, Calif., June 25, 2013 /PRNewswire/ --†The Board of Directors of Men's Wearhouse (NYSE: MW) today provided further comments regarding the termination of George Zimmer as Executive Chairman on June 19, 2013.† The Board stated:† "Our actions were not taken to hurt George Zimmer.† Rather we were focused on what we believed to be in the best interests of Men's Wearhouse, as well as shareholders and employees.† While Mr. Zimmer owns 3 Ω% of the stock, it is our obligation to represent the interests of all shareholders.† "Mr. Zimmer had difficulty accepting the fact that Men's Wearhouse is a public company with an independent Board of Directors and that he has not been the Chief Executive Officer for two years.† He advocated for significant changes that would enable him to regain control, but ultimately he was unable to convince any of the Board members or senior executives that his positions were in the best interests of employees, shareholders or the company's future.† These issues of contention included, among other things: --After selecting our CEO, Doug Ewert, and several of the key management team members that have effectively been running the company for many years with great success, Mr. Zimmer eventually refused to support the team unless they acquiesced to his demands. --Mr. Zimmer expected veto power over significant corporate decisions.† Among them was executive compensation despite the fact that we ñ as required of a public company ñ have an independent committee of the Board that sets policy in this area. † --After initially supporting the review of strategic alternatives for K&amp;G as proposed by management and supported by the Board, Mr. Zimmer reversed course.† Despite Mr. Zimmer's objection, the Board and management remain committed to the K&amp;G review process.  --Mr. Zimmer reversed his long-standing position against taking the company private by arguing for a sale of the Men's Wearhouse to an investment group.† The Board believes such a transaction would not be in the best interests of our shareholders, and it would be a very risky path on many levels.† It would require the company to take on a huge amount of debt to pay for such a transaction.† The Board strongly believes that such a transaction would be highly risky for our employees and would threaten our company culture that is so important to all of us.  --The Board is unanimously of the view that now is not the time to sell the company.† The Board is committed to a strategic plan carefully developed by CEO Doug Ewert and the rest of the company's experienced management team, which we all believe will maximize long-term value for all shareholders. "Mr. Zimmer presented the Board with the choice of either a) continuing to support our CEO and the management team on the successful path they had been taking, or b) effectively re-instating Mr. Zimmer as the sole decision maker. † The Board strongly believed that the best course of action was to re-affirm its support for Doug Ewert, the senior management team, our shareholders and our employees.   "Neither the Board nor management desired a total breakdown of the relationship between Mr. Zimmer and the company.† In our discussions with Mr. Zimmer, we made considerable efforts to find a solution that would have allowed him to continue to have a significant involvement with Men's Wearhouse.† Unfortunately, Mr. Zimmer wouldn't accept anything other than full control of the company and the Board was left with no choice but to terminate him as Executive Chairman.†   "As a Board, we care deeply about the culture of Men's Wearhouse, which we fostered and helped create along with the management team and our 17,000 valued employees.† We stand behind its core values of world-class customer service, servant leadership and the open door culture that celebrates the value of every voice.†  As we stated, we fully support Doug Ewert, our CEO, and senior management team who are unified and focused on the future of the company and the best interest of our shareholders, employees and customers."
Another morning, another analyst cuts Apple's price target.† In a note titled, "Treading Water," Oppenheimer analyst Ittai Kidron cut Apple's price target to $460, down from $480.† He's cutting his target based on weaker than expected iPhone sales coupled with a shift in the mix of iPhone units.† "Our checks suggest continued solid iPhone 4/4S demand and mixed iPhone 5 demand," says Kidron. He's lowering the average price of an iPhone unit sold. And he's cutting his units by 1 million to 26 million for the quarter.† He's also tweaking estimates for the September quarter, assuming that Apple doesn't release a new iPhone until the end of September.† Yesterday, Jefferies slashed iPhone estimates, and the stock tanked.† So far, pre-market, Apple's stock is hanging in. We'll see what changes during the day.†
This basically needs no explanation. Home prices are soaring. On a year-over-year basis, Case-Shiller home prices surged by over 12.05%. More impressive, the single-month gain of 1.7% was the strongest one-month gain in the history of the entire index. Case-Shiller

masochismtango via Flickr Really nice housing number. The Case-Shiller 20-city index surged 12.05% from last year. That's well ahead of the 10.6% that analysts were expecting. The month-over-month gain of 1.72% was also nicely ahead of expectations. "The 10- and 20-City Composites posted their highest monthly gains in the history of S&amp;P/Case- Shiller Home Price Indices," David M. Blitzer¬†chairman of the S&amp;P index committee said in a press release. "Thirteen cities posted monthly increases of over two percentage points, with San Francisco leading at 4.9%.The earlier preview is below." Home prices are back to their 2004 levels. And both composites are down 26 - 27% from their June/July 2006 peaks. There was some concern that rising mortgage rates would hurt the housing recovery, but Blitzer said "home buyers have survived rising mortgage rates in the past, often by shifting from fixed rate to adjustable rate loans." Paul Diggle at Capital Economics expects the pace of home price growth to decline in coming months. Here's a chart of the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index: S&P/Case-Shiller --------------------------------------- The S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index for April is out at 9 a.m. ET. Economists polled by Bloomberg are looking for the 20-city Case Shiller to rise 10.6% year-over-year, and 1.2% MoM. The 20-city index was up 1.1% on the month, and 10.9% on the year in March. While home prices have shown double digit growth in recent months, the pace of home price growth is expected to slow in coming months. A bottom in housing inventory, the return of sellers, the inability of investors to find bargains, and rising mortgage rates are all expected to take the steam out of rising home prices.
YouTube ScreenshotNice beat on durable goods. Headline durable goods orders for May gre by 3.6%, well ahead of expectations. Excluding transportation, durable goods grew by 0.7%, which was ahead of expectations of flat. Markets remain near their highs of the day.
REUTERS/Bobby YipPeople cross a street in front of a monitor showing file footage of Edward Snowden, a former contractor for the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA), with a news tag (L) saying he has left Hong Kong, outside a shopping mall in Hong Kong June 23, 2013. Snowden left Hong Kong on a flight for Moscow on Sunday and his final destination may be Ecuador or Iceland, the South China Morning Post said.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
WASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî Taking climate change efforts into his own hands, President Barack Obama is proposing sweeping steps to limit heat-trapping pollution from coal-fired power plants and to boost renewable energy production on federal property. Obama, in a speech Tuesday at Georgetown University, was to announce he's issuing a presidential memorandum to launch the first-ever federal regulations on carbon dioxide emitted by existing power plants, moving to curb the gases blamed for global warming despite adamant opposition from Republicans and some energy producers. The far-reaching plan marks Obama's most prominent effort yet to deliver on a major priority he laid out in his first presidential campaign and recommitted to at the start of his second term: to fight climate change in the U.S. and abroad and prepare American communities for its effects. Environmental activists have been irked that Obama's high-minded goals never materialized into a comprehensive plan. By expanding permitting on public lands, Obama hopes to generate enough electricity from renewable energy projects such as wind and solar to power the equivalent of 6 million homes by 2020, effectively doubling the electric capacity federal lands now produce, senior administration officials said. He'll also set a goal to install 100 megawatts of energy-producing capacity at federal housing projects by the end of the decade. Obama also was to announce $8 billion in federal loan guarantees to spur investment in technologies that can keep carbon dioxide produced by power plants from being released into the atmosphere. "While no single step can reverse the effects of climate change, we have a moral obligation to act on behalf of future generations," the White House said in a statement, arguing that climate change is no longer a distant threat ‚Äî the 12 hottest years on record all occurred in the past 15 years. The linchpin of Obama's plan involves new and existing power plants. Forty percent of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions, and one-third of greenhouse gases overall, come from electric power plants, according to the federal Energy Information Administration. The Obama administration already has proposed controls on new plants, but those controls have been delayed and not yet finalized. Tuesday's announcement would be the first public confirmation that Obama plans to extend carbon controls to existing plants. "The country is facing a threat; the president is facing facts," said Dan Lashof of the Natural Resources Defense Council, praising Obama for taking aim at power plants. "Reducing that pollution is the most important step we can take as a nation to stand up to climate change." A spokesman for major power companies said the industry long has understood the importance of addressing climate change and has been working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for two decades. The industry will consider whether new climate change policies and regulations "mesh" with its ongoing transition to a cleaner generating fleet and an enhanced electric grid, said Tom Kuhn, president of the Edison Electric Institute, a group that represents power companies. Even before Obama spoke, reaction from Republicans was swift and dismissive, reflecting the opposition to climate legislation on Capitol Hill that prompted a frustrated Obama to sidestep lawmakers and take action himself. Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said imposing carbon rules on power plants amounts to a national energy tax. "Will the president explain the massive costs to American jobs? Will the president explain how low-income Americans would pay for their new, higher utility bills?" Stewart said. Senior administration officials, who weren't authorized to comment by name and requested anonymity, said Obama will set a timeline for putting new power plant controls in place. But he won't issue detailed emission targets or specifics. Instead, the president will launch a process in which the Environmental Protection Agency will work with states to develop specific plans to rein in carbon emissions, with flexibility for each state's circumstances. Obama also will announce more aggressive steps to increase efficiency for appliances such as refrigerators and lamps, the White House said, adding that stricter standards could reduce carbon pollution by more than 3 billion tons between now and 2030 ‚Äî the equivalent of a half-year's worth of carbon pollution from power plants. Another component of Obama's proposal will involve ramping up hydropower production from existing dams. Obama raised climate change as a key second-term issue in his inaugural address in January, but has offered few details since. In his February State of the Union, he issued an ultimatum to lawmakers: "If Congress won't act soon to protect future generations, I will." "His view reflects reality," White House spokesman Jay Carney said Monday. "We've seen Congress attempt to deal with this issue, and fail to." Framing Obama's efforts as part of a broader, global movement, the White House said the U.S. can play a leading role in persuading other nations to join in efforts to slow the warming of the planet. Obama is calling for an end to U.S. support for public financing for new coal-fired plants overseas, officials said, but will exempt plants in the poorest nations as long as the cleanest technology available in those countries is being used. He's also pledging to work with major polluting countries like China and India to curb emissions, building on an agreement Obama struck recently with China's leader to phase out hydrofluorocarbons, potent greenhouse gases used in air conditions and refrigerators. Another of Obama's goals ‚Äî to prepare communities for the inevitable effects of climate change ‚Äî appears to be more aspiration than concrete plan. Community leaders and environmental activists say that what cities and states need to prepare for flooding and higher temperatures is money ‚Äî something Obama is hard-pressed to provide without Congress' go-ahead. Sidestepping Congress by using executive action doesn't guarantee Obama smooth sailing. Lawmakers could introduce legislation to thwart Obama's efforts. And the rules for existing power plants will almost certainly face legal challenges in court. ___ Follow Matthew Daly on Twitter: https://twitter.com/MatthewDalyWDC Follow Josh Lederman on Twitter: https://twitter.com/joshledermanAP Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
 Combine the convergence of East and West that followed the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 with the tastes of modern global consumers and rich oil and gas reserves, and there are plenty of ways to make money in Eastern Europe and Russia. But as with any emerging market, an understanding of cultural and corporate nuances is essential for success. While the economic fundamentals are strong, you need staff on the ground ñ and people who speak the local language ñ if you hope to truly understand the subtle signs which are part of any business transaction, East Capital chief executive Michael Hanson-Lawson told Business Insider. While Russia is the country with oil and gas, growing consumer spending power and the convergence of east and west Europe ó which improves manufacturing and infrastructure ó is a region-wide story, Hanson-Lawson said, but tapping into it requires local advisers. Since East Capitalís Russia fund launched in 1998 ó the same year the former Soviet nationís stock, bond, and currency markets collapsed ó it has returned an annual average of 18.5%, a 5.2% leg-up on the index. The Eastern Europe fund has returned 16.2% since 2002, 5.4% more than the index against which itís benchmarked. It is a success Hanson-Lawson credits to the 1000-plus company visits East Capital conducts in Eastern Europe each year, as well as a network of local sources with their ears to first-hand company information. ìIf you really want to figure out the nuances of the meeting you need to speak the local language.î You also need to go out an visit companies, ìrather than saying ëright, we will sit in this nice office in Moscowí.î Once two of East Capitalís Russian-speaking fund managers visited the regional operations of an oil company claiming to have $30 billion in cash. During the visit ó after which East Capital decided they were telling the truth and took a position ó they two fund managers were told they were the first to actually make the trip from Moscow in two years. ìIf you are on the ground you have your sources everywhere.î This is important so you avoid making investments in companies connected to the wrong people, who often ìbehave badlyî to minority shareholders, and run companies with poor corporate governance. ìVery often they might have two companies, a deal will be done with a lot of debt into the public company and the good assets go up in to the private company.î Corporate culture ó especially in Russia ó has also changed. Many businesspeople have been educated abroad, and many leaders of top companies have grown up entirely outside the communist era. In the Soviet days no meeting kicked off without vodka, and ìeveryone was completely stokers by middayî, Hanson-Lawson said. ìThese days, lunch in Moscow is seldom with booze. This is because its a new generation of entrepreneurs ñ they have been educated in the US, and they are serious and pretty ambitious. ìThe way that international business is conducted in Moscow is the same as in Sydney or in London.î Avoid mistakes in Eastern Europe is imperative, especially in Russia.†The countryís own Prime Minister†Dmitry Medvedev has said less than 1% of all criminal cases that make it to court result in a not guilty verdict or acquittal. The most high-profile horror story is that of jailed oligarch†Mikhail Khodorkovsky. President Vladimir Putin ìbroke the backî of his Yukos oil, one of the largest companies to emerge after the privatisation of state-owned assets. East Capital held positions in Yukos when its shares were frozen by the government, and it is a burn Hanson-Lawson said the company has learned from. But he added the dangers of doing business in the region were generally overblown. ìAs an investor [in listed companies] nothing awful is going to happen to you ñ you are not going to be one of those terrible stories where you end up in prison. ìPrivate equity has to tread a bit more carefully,î he said. The same corporate morals which mean investors must tread carefully also have a plus side. Access to bosses and politicians is easier in Eastern Europe, Hanson-Lawson said. ìThatís one of the pleasures of being a big fish in a small pond. You can get in to see ministers as well, in all these countries it is easier. ìThe great thing about emerging markets, and with our own position ó as in Russia we are one of the two biggest investors ó is you get access to the top people.î Of course, ìThen you have to make a value judgement,î as to whether you believe what the regionís top businesspeople have to say. Now read:†Market Uncertainty Is Making It Very Difficult For Borrowers To Raise Cash Follow Business Insider Australia on†Facebook†and†Twitter
FREDTalk of "the taper" has coincided with a surge in interest rates.The big story in economics is the recent rise in interest rates. In just the past several weeks, as talk has grown about reducing the pace of bond purchases via quantitative easing, yields on the US 10-year have surged past 2.5%. Very recently they were barely above 1.5%. In a post at his blog, Marginal Revolution, economist Tyler Cowen comes to two worrying conclusions about the rate surge that we've seen: ¬†The major possibilities are not comforting.¬† I can‚Äôt be talked into them by a day or two of market data, but we do need to look more seriously at:¬† 1. The low rates really have been an artifact of Fed policy, at least to a much higher degree than many of us had thought.¬† 2. Emerging markets tanked on the Fed communication, and so we have indeed been exporting bubbles through a ‚Äúreach for yield‚Äù mechanism. Critics of Fed policy have been hammering at both of these points: that low rates have purely been a function of Fed policy, and that low rates were creating bubbles. As Cowen suggests, the latest datapoints lend favor to both arguments. The major possibilities are not comforting.¬† I can‚Äôt be talked into them by a day or two of market data, but we do need to look more seriously at: 1. The low rates really have been an artifact of Fed policy, at least to a much higher degree than many of us had thought. 2. Emerging markets tanked on the Fed communication, and so we have indeed been exporting bubbles through a ‚Äúreach for yield‚Äù mechanism. The major possibilities are not comforting.¬† I can‚Äôt be talked into them by a day or two of market data, but we do need to look more seriously at: 1. The low rates really have been an artifact of Fed policy, at least to a much higher degree than many of us had thought. 2. Emerging markets tanked on the Fed communication, and so we have indeed been exporting bubbles through a ‚Äúreach for yield‚Äù mechanism.
REUTERS/Bobby Yip A banner supporting Edward Snowden, a former contractor at the National Security Agency (NSA), is displayed at Hong Kong's financial Central district on June 21, 2013.Edward Snowden has admitted he deliberately went to work for the US intelligence contractor Booz Allen Hamilton in order to harvest highly classified evidence of the National Security Agency (NSA) surveillance programs that he hoped to expose. "My position with Booz Allen Hamilton granted me access to lists of machines all over the world the NSA hacked. That is why I accepted that position about three months ago," he told Hong Kong's South China Morning Post during an interview on June 12 that was published on Tuesday. Asked if his decision to take the job had been a calculated move designed to give him access to secret information, Mr Snowden reportedly replied: "Correct on Booz." Snowden, whose exact location was unknown on Tuesday morning, flew out of Hong Kong on Sunday and has reportedly requested asylum in Ecuador. He had been expected to fly from Russia to Cuba on Monday afternoon but as the Aeroflot plane prepared to take off from Moscow's international airport journalists who had boarded the flight found his seat empty. In new extracts from his June 12 interview with the South China Morning Post Mr Snowden said he would continue to leak his findings to journalists around the world. "If I have time to go through this information, I would like to make it available to journalists in each country to make their own assessment, independent of my bias, as to whether or not the knowledge of US network operations against their people should be published." Snowden's admission was made public as new details emerged about his final hours in Hong Kong, where he had been in hiding since May 20. According to an account in the New York Times, Mr Snowden plotted his escape from the former British colony over pizza and Pepsi at the home of one local supporter. Albert Ho, a local pro-democracy campaigner and lawmaker, who was present at the dinner told the New York Times: "He believed he was doing the right thing, serving the people. Certainly he is not a spy for anybody Russia, China." Mr Snowden's decision to leave Hong Kong reportedly came after an "intermediary" from the Hong Kong government informed him that authorities could not guarantee he would not be jailed while awaiting trial. 
Flickr / mrlins Lots of economic data is coming up today. We get six significant points. Here they are, via Yahoo Finance: Bottom line: At a time when the market is thirsting for information, today we're getting tons.
Someone sent us a quote from JPMorgan that finally explains the origins of the tight interbank liquidity conditions in China. It's roughly what analysts have been suggesting.¬† JPMorgan: - ... there is an additional reason for the tight liquidity, in the form of a crackdown on illegal bond trading by regulators. In recent years, wealth management products (WMP) have become an important channel for Chinese banks to attract deposits. Most wealth management products are short-maturity (65% are below 3 months, and 20% range from 3-6 months). The maturity dates of such products are usually at the quarter-end, to meet regulatory requirements on loan-to-deposit ratios. Due to competition in providing high returns for WMP, banks were forced to buy high-yielding bonds with 1-5-year maturities to serve as underlying of the WMP. Examples of such bonds are lowly rated credit papers with poor liquidity, or non-standard securities such as discounted bills and bank loans. This resulted in a term mismatch between the maturity of WMP and their underlying asset. To avoid any squeeze from this mismatch upon maturity of the WMP, small banks started to engage in a kind of sale-and-buyback operation of the underlying bonds, consisting of two steps. In step 1, bonds were sold before quarter-end in a ‚Äúfake‚Äù sale to a friendly counterparty, with the aim to obtain cash to pay back the maturing WMP. In a second phase of the trade, the bond was then bought back using cash from new WMP issues. But in May the regulator banned this practice, as part of a general clampdown of the abuses in the WPM market. Part of the interest rate squeeze we are observing today is due to the difficulty in liquidating the (illiquid) underlying bonds before the maturity date of WMP at June-end. The demand for cash has therefore risen significantly, at least from the small banks. Note that China‚Äôs larger banks do not have problems accessing liquidity, but that primarily the small banks are suffering. As¬†discussed earlier, it is clear that the PBoC does not have a good handle on banks' risk-based capital and the smaller banks in China have been playing the game of regulatory capital arbitrage. This is similar to US banks using off-balance-sheet vehicles funded with commercial paper to "convert" long-dated illiquid assets into short term (less than 365 days) exposure.
Flickr/planetc1 Over the last several days, fears have grown that the world's central banks were going on strike. China was letting overnight liquidity dry up. Bernanke was signaling that the march towards the exit would begin. The Bank for International Settlements (the central bankers' central bank) said in its annual report that the age of excessively easy monetary policy had to come to an end, and that it was time for fiscal authorities and governments to do their part to fix the economy. But today we're getting reminders that central banks are still here. The People's Bank of China came out with a statement indicating that would ease liquidity concerns. And this morning, ECB executive board member Beno√Æt C≈ìur√© gave a speech in which he said this line: Let me state quite clearly that I do not intend to drop any hints about a change in the monetary policy stance in the euro area in the near future. A reversal would not be warranted by current economic conditions. Economic growth is projected to remain weak this year and inflation is expected to remain clearly below 2% for the euro area as a whole. The various non-standard measures that have been introduced by the ECB to support monetary policy transmission in certain market segments will stay in place as long as necessary, and there are other measures, standard and non-standard, that we can deploy if warranted. Therefore, at the current juncture, there should be no doubts that our ‚Äúexit‚Äù is distant and our monetary policy is and will remain accommodative. That's not that specific, but the idea of there being more the ECB can do to ease policy if warranted (which they almost certainly are) is an important message. Meanwhile, there are more Fed speeches coming up this week, and potentially there will be an opportunity to help soften some of Bernanke's words from last Wednesday. So perhaps the strike is over for now. Markets are liking it. China made a comeback from its lows of the day, and Europe is at its highs of the morning.
Markets were plummeting in Shanghai early in the Tuesday section, but came back late in the day. The savior was the People's Bank of China, which finally is taking a more active stance towards the extreme liquidity crunch that had engulfed the Chinese banking sector in recent days. Via WSJ, the PBOC made a statement to the effect that it's addressing the liquidity matters: A People's Bank of China official said on Tuesday that the central bank will guide interest rates to a "reasonable range," suggesting a potential end to a cash crunch that has gripped the country's financial system this month. ... He didn't elaborate on what constituted a reasonable range, though he said the central bank would be flexible in managing interbank liquidity. "Some seasonal factors will gradually disappear," Mr. Ling said. There have been various theories as to why the People's Bank of China let overnight lending rates surge like they did. It seemed likely that to some extent it was an attempt to instill some discipline into the banking system.
pepe50 / FlickrOn Monday, Shanghai stocks cratered over 5%. On Tuesday, it was looking like it was going to be another bloody day, with stocks deep into the red into the second half of trading. But somehow the market found a bid, and ended virtually flat. Same with Japan. It had appeared that the market was going to end down over 1%, but in the end the market ended flat. And now we're generally seeing green across the board. Italy is up 0.7%. France is up 1%. Germany is up 0.9%. U.S. futures are higher. In general, the mood is much different than it was early yesterday, when everything is cratering. Stability for now.
UPDATE: The Shanghai Composite fell further into bear market territory and was down as much as 5.2% on Tuesday. It pared some of its losses and is now down 4.76% to 1,870.84. Markets continue to be concerned about a liquidity crunch that could hurt already slowing economic growth. The Shanghai Composite fell 5.2% on Monday after the People's Bank of China said that liquidity conditions were at "reasonable levels," despite the recent spike in interbank rates.  It has been argued that Chinese policymakers are willing to settle for some short-term pain in order to move towards more stable, longer-term growth. The SHIBOR fix, Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate, for June 25 fell 75 bps to 5.7360%. Here's a look at the five-day chart of the Shanghai Composite: Yahoo Finance Note: When we first published the post at 11:55 p.m. ET, the Shanghai Composite was down 3.8% to 1,888.68.
Reuters/Bobby YipChinese interbank rates, or the rates at which banks lend to each other, have been rising since before the Dragon Boat festival earlier this month. A statement from the People's Bank of China on Monday suggests that policymakers are serious about reform and are willing to take on short term pain (spiking interbank rates and a liquidity squeeze) for longer term gains (more stable economic growth). But Bank of America's Ting Lu writes that the PBoC's actions are actually doing more harm than good: "The benefit of this liquidity squeeze is that banks that have behaved aggressively will be punished. With deleveraging on the part of smaller banks, China could reduce its risk of a systemic financial crisis. But the costs could be much higher.† "First, all past efforts on developing Shibor as Chinaís new benchmark interest rates appear to have been wasted, in our view. Second, Chinaís financial liberalization including deregulation of interest rates will be significantly delayed. Third, big banks will partially regain their dominance which may not be efficient. Fourth, the brinkmanship displayed in dealing with these issues could be risky to Chinaís economic stability as policymakers may not have full control of the unfolding volatilities set off by the liquidity squeeze even though the squeeze is supposed to be temporary."† We have previously argued that overall interbank lending accounts for just 8% of total bank assets. While spiking interbank rates aren't' isn't as important to banks' funding in China as they are in developed markets, and some of the recent rhetoric has been exaggerated, they do raise concerns about a cash crunch in China. Analysts expect rates to stay elevated till July. Meanwhile, the Shanghai Composite has entered a bear market. 
