Image Courtesy of Jonathan Weiss, Design by Mike NudelmanClick the image above to begin your style education.We recently brought you a fraternity fashion email from the self-proclaimed "Fratshionistau"†that was making the rounds at Emory University. We spoke with the author ó Emory sophomore Jonathan Weiss ó and put together our own Fraternity Fashion Guide. Weiss helped us determine some do's and don'ts for the well-dressed frat boy. Inside, you'll find tips on how to dress for any occasion ó formals, date nights, class, or parties. You'll also find some advice directly from the†Fratshionistau, such as this gem about how to best pull off a semi-formal look: "Simplicity stands out! Busy designs on shirts or ties are†distracting. A solid white shirt with a solid colored tie, or a†basic pattern, is always the easiest way to go."
REUTERS/Bobby YipChina's official manufacturing index for November slightly beat explanation. The PMI reading came in at 51.4, slightly ahead of the 51.1 that was expected. Last month was 51.4 as well. This year, as in past years, there has been a concern over a possible hard landing in the Chinese economy. But mostly it hasn't happened. The HSBC version of the same manufacturing survey will come out tomorrow evening.
After a month-long stint of growing out mustaches and beards, it's time to say goodbye to Movember and unruly facial hair everywhere. If you do decide to shave it all off on December 1st, you better get prepared ‚Äî your skin hasn't seen a razor in months, so now's the time to be careful and gentle. We spoke with barber Duvall Lawton, one of the original barbers at Harry's flagship barbershop in New York City, to get some expert tips for getting rid of facial hair that's been growing for 30 days. 1. Trim your beard and mustache as close as possible. "If you have a big beard, I would trim it down so if there are any ingrown hairs, or a mole, or irritation to the skin you can see it before you start shaving," Lawton suggests. 2. Apply a hot towel to your face for about 30 seconds. This lets the pores open up, and softens your hair follicles, according to Lawton. Plus, it will feel indulgently good. 3. Lather on pre-shave oil and/or shaving cream and moisturize it into the skin. Let it sit for a few minutes to soften the hair.¬† 4. Run the razor under warm water for 20 seconds. "The warm water actually heats up the razor, which makes the razor sharper," Lawton says. "When you take that first stroke, you'll feel a big difference when that razor is hot." 5. Shave with the grain, or the direction your hair is growing, to avoid razor burn or ingrown hairs. Avoid going over areas multiple times to keep irritation to a minimum. 6. After you're done shaving, combine some alcohol and cold water on a towel and place it on your face for 20 seconds to close up your pores. Store-bought astringents will also work. 7. Keep your skin soft and massage some moisture back into your pores (it's been dried out with the hot and cold towels). Harry's barber Lawton recommends Musgo Real After Shave Balsam. "It's an aftershave balm. It has almond and jojoba oils, and is a great a treatment for dry and damaged skin," Lawton said. Congratulations ‚Äî you now have the closest shave of your life. And if you're more of a barbershop guy, Harry's will be hosting a National Shave Day on Dec. 1 at select barbershops around the country.¬† Find out more information and see if your local barbershop is participating here.¬†
How does a man tie a scarf? A simple question ñ but one that has become more complex as the scarf itself has become a more feminine accessory over the last 50 years. This has led to a shift in how this classic menís accessory is viewed. Thatís unfortunate. The scarf is a classic, masculine piece of menswear that serves the functional purpose of protecting the neck. In most cases ñ it keeps our necks warm. †But the silk scarf was originally used to protect a pilots neck from chaffing when open cockpits where the rule. †They have also been used for centuries by those living in desert areas to protect from dust and the sun. So how to tie a scarf in a masculine way? Well in the below chart I give you eleven techniques ñ each chose because it is first functional and second because itíll look great on a masculine physique. Enjoy! Real Men Real Style Now there are dozens of other ways to tie a scarf. However if itís just to accessorize ñ be careful and realize you are entering the world of male fashion, not classic menís style. And if you enjoyed this chart ñ make sure to†grab my FREE ebook here.††I have over 60,000 men on my email newsletter because I deliver amazing content that helps you use clothing to reach your professional and personal goals.
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartBitcoin enthusiast Mike Caldwell poses at his office in Sandy, Utah, September 17, 2013. The past weeks have seen a surprising meeting of minds between chairman of the US Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke, the Bank of England, the Olympic-rowing and Zuckerberg-bothering Winklevoss twins, and the US Department of Homeland Security. The connection? All have decided it's time to take Bitcoin seriously. Until now, what pundits called in a rolling-eye fashion "the new peer-to-peer cryptocurrency" had been seen just as a digital form of gold, with all the associated speculation, stake-claiming and even "mining"; perfect for the digital wild west of the internet, but no use for real transactions. Bitcoins are mined by computers solving fiendishly hard mathematical problems. The "coin" doesn't exist physically: it is a virtual currency that exists only as a computer file. No one computer controls the currency. A network keeps track of all transactions made using Bitcoins but it doesn't know what they were used for ‚Äì just the ID of the computer "wallet" they move from and to. Right now the currency is tricky to use, both in terms of the technological nous required to actually acquire Bitcoins, and finding somewhere to spend them. To get them, you have to first set up a wallet, probably online at a site such as Blockchain.info, and then pay someone hard currency to get them to transfer the coins into that wallet. A Bitcoin payment address is a short string of random characters, and if used carefully, it's possible to make transactions anonymously. That's what made it the currency of choice for sites such as the Silk Road and Black Market Reloaded, which let users buy drugs anonymously over the internet. It also makes it very hard to tax transactions, despite the best efforts of countries such as Germany, which in August declared that Bitcoin was "private money" in which transactions should be taxed as normal. It doesn't have all the advantages of cash, though the fact you can't forge it is a definite plus: Bitcoin is "peer-to-peer" and every coin "spent" is authenticated with the network. Thus you can't spend the same coin in two different places. (But nor can you spend it without an internet connection.) You don't have to spend whole Bitcoins: each one can be split into 100m pieces (each known as a satoshi), and spent separately. Although most people have now vaguely heard of Bitcoin, you're unlikely to find someone outside the tech community who really understands it in detail, let alone accepts it as payment. Nobody knows who invented it; its pseudonymous creator, Satoshi Nakamoto, hasn't come forward. He or she may not even be Japanese but certainly knows a lot about cryptography, economics and computing. It was first presented in November 2008 in an academic paper shared with a cryptography mailing list. It caught the attention of that community but took years to take off as a niche transaction tool. The first Bitcoin boom and bust came in 2011, and signalled that it had caught the attention of enough people for real money to get involved ‚Äì but also posed the question of whether it could ever be more than a novelty. The algorithm for mining Bitcoins means the number in circulation will never exceed 21m and this limit will be reached in around 2140. Already 57% of all Bitcoins have been created; by 2017, 75% will have been. If you tried to create a Bitcoin in 2141, every other computer on the network would reject it as fake because it would not have been made according to the rules of currency. The number of companies taking Bitcoin payments is increasing from a small base, and a few payment processors such as Atlanta-based Bitpay are making real money from the currency. But it's difficult to get accurate numbers on conventional transactions, and it still seems that the most popular uses of Bitcoins are buying drugs in the shadier parts of the internet, as people did on the Silk Road website, and buying the currency in the hope that in a few weeks' time you will be able to sell it at a profit. This is remarkable because there's no fundamental reason why Bitcoin should have any value at all. The only reason people are willing to pay money for the currency is because other people are willing to as well. (Try not to think about it too hard.) Now, though, sensible economists are saying that Bitcoin might become part of our future economy. That's quite a shift from October last year, when the European Central Bank said that Bitcoin was "characteristic of a Ponzi [pyramid] scheme". This month, the Chicago Federal Reserve commented that the currency was "a remarkable conceptual and technical achievement, which may well be used by existing financial institutions (which could issue their own bitcoins) or even by governments themselves". It might not sound thrilling. But for a central banker, that's like yelling "BITCOIIINNNN!" from the rooftops. And Bernanke, in a carefully dull letter to the US Senate committee on Homeland Security, said that when it came to virtual currencies (read: Bitcoin), the US Federal Reserve had "ongoing initiatives" to "identify additional areas of ‚Ä¶ concern that require heightened attention by the banking organisations we supervise". In other words, Bernanke is ready to make Bitcoin part of US currency regulation ‚Äì the key step towards legitimacy. Most reporting about Bitcoin until now has been of its extraordinary price ramp ‚Äì from a low of $1 in 2011 to more than $900 earlier this month. That massive increase has sparked a classic speculative rush, with more and more people hoping to get a piece of the pie by buying and then selling Bitcoins. Others are investing thousands of pounds in custom "mining rigs", computers specially built to solve the mathematical problems necessary to confirm a Bitcoin transaction. But bubbles can burst: in 2011 it went from $33 to $1. The day after hitting that $900 high, Bitcoin's value halved on MtGox, the biggest exchange. Then it rose again. Speculative bubbles happen everywhere, though, from stock markets to Beanie Babies. All that's needed is enough people who think that they are the smart money, and that everyone else is sufficiently stupid to buy from them. But the Bitcoin bubbles tell us as much about the usefulness of the currency itself as the tulip mania of 17th century Holland did about flower-arranging. History does provide some lessons. While the Dutch were selling single tulip bulbs for 10 times a craftsman's annual income, the British were panicking about their own economic crisis. The silver coinage that had been the basis of the national economy for centuries was rapidly becoming unfit for purpose: it was constrained in supply and too easy to forge. The economy was taking on the features of a modern capitalist state, and the currency simply couldn't catch up. Describing the problem Britain faced then, David Birch, a consultant specialising in electronic transactions, says: "We had a problem in matching the nature of the economy to the nature of the money we used." Birch has been talking about electronic money for over two decades and is convinced that we find ourselves on the edge of the same shift that occurred 400 years ago. The cause of that shift is the internet, because even though you might want to, you can't use cash ‚Äì untraceable, no-fee-charged cash ‚Äì online. Existing payment systems such as PayPal and credit cards demand a cut. So for individuals looking for a digital equivalent of cash ‚Äì no middleman, quick, easy ‚Äì Bitcoin looks pretty good. In 1613, as people looked for a replacement for silver, Birch says, "we might have been saying 'the idea of tulip bulbs as an asset class looks pretty good, but this central bank nonsense will never catch on.' We knew we needed a change, but we couldn't tell which made sense." Back then, the currency crisis was solved with the introduction first of Isaac Newton's Royal Mint ("official" silver and gold) and later with the creation of the Bank of England ("official" paper money that could in theory be swapped for official silver or gold). And now? Bitcoin offers unprecedented flexibility compared with what has gone before. "Some people in the mid-90s asked: 'Why do we need the web when we have AOL and CompuServe?'" says Mike Hearn, who works on the programs that underpin Bitcoin. "And so now people ask the same of Bitcoin. The web came to dominate because it was flexible and open, so anyone could take part, innovate and build interesting applications like YouTube, Facebook or Wikipedia, none of which would have ever happened on the AOL platform. I think the same will be true of Bitcoin." For a small (but vocal) group in the US, Bitcoin represents the next best alternative to the gold standard, the 19th-century conception that money ought to be backed by precious metals rather than government printing presses and promises. This love of "hard money" is baked into Bitcoin itself, and is the reason why the owners who set computers to do the maths required to make the currency work are known as "miners", and is why the total supply of Bitcoin is capped. And for Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, the twins who sued Mark Zuckerberg (claiming he stole their idea for Facebook; the case was settled out of court), it's a handy vehicle for speculation. The two of them are setting up the "Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust", letting conventional investors gamble on the price of the currency. Some of the hurdles left between Bitcoin and widespread adoption can be fixed. But until and unless Bitcoin develops a fully fledged banking system, some things that we take for granted with conventional money won't work. Others are intrinsic to the currency. At some point in the early 22nd century, the last Bitcoin will be generated. Long before that, the creation of new coins will have dropped to near-zero. And through the next 100 or so years, it will follow an economic path laid out by "Nakomoto" in 2009 ‚Äì a path that rejects the consensus view of modern economics that management by a central bank is beneficial. For some, that means Bitcoin can never achieve ubiquity. "Economies perform better when they have managed monetary policies," the Bank of England's chief cashier, Chris Salmon, said at an event to discuss Bitcoin last week. "As a result, it will never be more than an alternative [to state-backed money]." To macroeconomists, Bitcoin isn't scary because it enables crime, or eases tax dodging. It's scary because a world where it's used for all transactions is one where the ability of a central bank to guide the economy is destroyed, by design. For Bitcoin developer Hearn, that's not a concern. "Bitcoin's monetary policy would only be relevant if it were to be adopted by an entire economy, which isn't going to happen any time soon." Already, alternatives based on Bitcoin have sprung up: for instance, Litecoin speeds up transaction processing and Freicoin introduces measures to stop people hoarding their money, but both are essentially the same technology, "forked" from the original. There's even nothing to stop a nation state declaring its own version of Bitcoin as legal tender. So even if the currency of the future looks like Bitcoin, it might end up being a distant successor of the pioneer. "Is the technology of Bitcoin a window into the future?" asks Birch. "Yes. Is Bitcoin itself? No." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsVenezuelan President Nicolas Maduro talks to supporters during a meeting outside Miraflores Palace in Caracas, November 12, 2013. CARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro said a stricter wave of inspections for suspected price-gouging would begin on Saturday in an aggressive pre-election "economic offensive" aimed at taming the highest inflation in the Americas. "We're not joking, we're defending the rights of the majority, their economic freedom," Maduro said on Friday, alleging price irregularities were found in nearly 99 percent of 1,705 businesses inspected so far this month. Maduro, who has staked his presidency on preserving the legacy of late socialist leader Hugo Chavez, launched a theatrical - and often televised - wave of inspections this month to force companies to reduce prices. He says "capitalist parasites" are trying to wreck Venezuela's economy and force him from office. Opponents scoff at the measures as cheap and short-term populism that is hiding the failure of Venezuela's socialist economic model and intended to win votes at an upcoming poll. Economic problems, including inflation running at an annual 54 percent and shortages of basic products, have been Maduro's biggest challenge since taking office in April. "The inspections are continuing daily and have let us see into the under-world of capitalism," Maduro said in his latest speech to the nation, warning of severe sanctions starting Saturday against businesses maintaining unjustifiably high prices. Government officials say companies have been marking up prices by as much as 1,000 percent over cost, though many retailers say they have been forced to hike prices sharply due to lack of access to foreign currency at the official rate. The government has given a plethora of different figures on the inspections, with Maduro saying 100 retailers have been arrested but his chief prosecutor putting that at around 30. "The government is seeking to transfer the political cost of the crisis to a third party (the businesses), while trying to give the impression it is attacking the problem," said Henkel Garcia, of local financial think-tank Econometrica. LIMITS ON RENTS Maduro also announced on Friday a new decree to limit monthly rents for commercial properties, to 250 bolivars ($40) per square meter, in a bid to reduce costs passed to consumers. And in another populist move, the president said interest rates for savers on low incomes would be hiked to 16 percent, from 12.5 percent currently. "This is just a first step to reward savers," Maduro said. The leader of Venezuela's main business group Fedecamaras, Jorge Roig, said this week the government's erroneous economic policies and excessive controls risk setting up the nation for a dire 2014 of shortages and stagnation. Wall Street analysts expect growth of 1 percent to 1.5 percent this year. The government has backed off its official target of 6 percent, but has not provided a new figure. Roig accused policymakers of "improvisation" in the face of growing economic distortions and insisted that businesses nationalized in the Chavez era were operating at half capacity, while only 2 percent of expropriated land was productive. "Mr. Jorge Roig, you have just declared economic war on the country," Maduro retorted on Friday, using the same combative tone and accusations against private enterprise common during Chavez's 14-year rule of the South American OPEC nations. Having narrowly beaten opposition candidate Henrique Capriles to win April's presidential vote, Maduro and his supporters are gearing up for a new test at the polls with nationwide municipal elections on December 8. The opposition is painting the vote as a referendum on Maduro's record, but any voter backlash over the economic problems may be tempered by his recent populist measures. (Additional reporting by Diego Ore and Eyanir Chinea; Editing by Brian Ellsworth, Andrew Hay and Vicki Allen)
REUTERS/Peng SunChina's President Xi Jinping (R) talks with India's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh (L) during a meeting at the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing, October 23, 2013.NEW DELHI/SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China on Saturday urged India not to aggravate problems on the border shared by the two nations, a day after the Indian president toured a disputed region and called it an integral part of the country. The two countries, which fought a brief border war in 1962, only last month signed a pact to ensure that differences on the border do not spark a confrontation. But Indian President Pranab Mukherjee's visit to the state of Arunachal Pradesh in the remote eastern stretch of the Himalayas that China claims as its own provoked a fresh exchange of words. "We hope that India will proceed along with China, protecting our broad relationship, and will not take any measures that could complicate the problem, and together we can protect peace and security in the border regions," China's official news agency, Xinhua, quoted Qin Gang, a spokesman of the country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as saying. "Currently Sino-India relations are developing favorably and both sides are going through special envoy meetings and amicable discussions to resolve the border dispute between our two countries." Mukherjee was on a routine visit to Arunachal which has been part of the Indian state for decades, and where India has regularly been holding elections. But China has of late grown increasingly assertive and questioned New Delhi's claims over the territory, calling it instead South Tibet. Mukherjee told members of the state's legislative assembly it was "a core stakeholder in India's Look East foreign policy" that intends to link the country's northeast with South East Asia. "We seek to make our neighbors partners in our development," Mukherjee said in Itanagar, the state capital. "We believe that India's future and our own best economic interests are served by closer integration with Asia." China lays claim to more than 90,000 sq km (35,000 sq miles) disputed by New Delhi in the eastern sector of the Himalayas, while India says China occupies 38,000 square km of its territory on the Aksai Chin plateau in the west. (Reporting by Krishna N Das in New Delhi and Adam Jourdan in Shanghai; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
From a month ago: There are many key releases right at the beginning of December, and we know the Fed is "data dependent".† So here is what the FOMC would like to see to start tapering: 1) the unemployment rate fall to 7.2% in the November report, 2) Employment up about 2.2 million year-over-year in November, 3) inflation increasing toward 2% target, and 4) some sort of fiscal agreement by Dec 13th.† All possible. ï The unemployment rate criteria should probably be expanded - not only would the Fed like to see the unemployment rate decline in November, they'd like to see the participation rate increase (the participation rate declined sharply in October to 62.8% from 63.2% in September, and I suspect the Fed will like to see some of that reversed in the November report). The unemployment report will be released next Friday, and the consensus is the unemployment rate will decline to 7.2%. ï Following the solid October employment report, it will be pretty easy for total employment to be up 2.2 million year-over-year in November (employment was up 2.33 million year-over-year in October).† The Fed will probably be looking for November job growth in line with the consensus of 180 thousand. ï Inflation is probably the key right now.† Core PCE was up 1.2% year-over-year in September, and the Fed would like to see this increasing towards their 2.0% target.†† PCE prices for October will be released next Friday, and the consensus is for core PCE prices to only be up 1.1% year-over-year.† Low inflation might stop the Fed from tapering in December. ï Some sort of fiscal agreement looks likely now since Congress is playing "small ball". Of course you never know with Congress. Right now the key is inflation.
REUTERS/Christian HartmannA prostitute waits for customers along a road of the Bois de Boulogne in Paris, August 28, 2013.PARIS (Reuters) - The French parliament early on Saturday backed a reform of the country's prostitution law that will impose a 1,500-euro fine on anyone paying for sex. The bill will give France some of the toughest legislation on prostitution in Europe, similar to that of Sweden. Under the new bill, prostitutes' clients will become offenders while soliciting itself will no longer be considered a criminal offence. Previously, buying and selling sex for money was not illegal in France but the act of soliciting was, as was pimping. The reform, which has divided the country, still needs to be formerly endorsed by parliament on Wednesday. Movie stars like Catherine Deneuve, who played a middle-class housewife who chooses to prostitute herself in the 1960s film "Belle de Jour", is one of several dozen celebrities who have signed a petition against the law. Some 90 percent of France's estimated 20,000 to 40,000 prostitutes are foreign, mostly victims of Nigerian, Chinese and Romanian trafficking networks, the government says. That is a very different picture from just over a decade ago, when only one in five prostitutes were foreign and organized crime rings much less prevalent - one of the main reasons the law needs tightening, proponents say. (Reporting by Astrid Wendlandt; editing by Andrew Roche)
When we take a look at weather forecasts, such as those in farmers' almanacs, we do not often consider any bias by the source of those forecasts. But maybe we should. It turns out that when it comes to weather forecasting, it is common to find low-probability outcomes consistently overestimated by forecasters. For example, according to a study at Texas A&amp;M ‚Äúwhen TWC (The Weather Channel) forecasted a 0.2 (20%) chance of precipitation for the same day, precipitation occurred only 5.5% of the time.‚Äù The well-known bias of weather forecasters to exaggerate fears of negative, low-probability outcomes, such as the likelihood and amount of snowfall, also often appears in the forecasts of non-weather-related issues. We saw this bias in the media over the antics in Washington, D.C., fixating on the threat of a default on U.S. Treasury debt during the debt ceiling discussions, or a return to recession due to the impact of the sequester spending cuts. This bias could also be seen in events beyond the United States‚Äô borders in the exaggerated attention devoted to the threat of another financial crisis stemming from the Cyprus bank bailout, the risk of the outcome of the Italian elections plunging the Eurozone debt markets into chaos, and the risks of a strike on Syria turning into a major geopolitical military engagement. Of course, the probabilities of those outcomes were very low, and the markets did not dwell on those potential outcomes. Market participants tuned them out, and the S&amp;P 500 moved steadily higher throughout the year without experiencing more than a 6% pullback at any point [Figure 11]. We believe it will be safe in 2014 to again tune out much of the antics in Washington, D.C. as the mid-term elections turn up the volume but not the impact. The LPL Financial Research forecast: In the nearterm, Washington may be washed up when it comes to driving the markets. LPL Financial
REUTERS/Mike Segar(Reuters) - Mega Millions rule changes aimed at creating bigger and faster-growing jackpots boosted the potential top prize for Friday's drawing to an estimated $230 million, but no winning ticket had been sold, pushing higher the potential haul, lottery officials said. For the next drawing - slated for December 3 at 11 p.m. Eastern Time - the jackpot is expected to grow to an estimated $257 million. If the winner chose to take a cash prize instead of an annuity, it would amount to $139 million, according to the Mega Millions website. www.megamillions.com. By comparison, the largest jackpot in history stands at $656 million and was won in the Mega Millions lottery in March 2012. The prize was split among winners in Maryland, Kansas and Illinois. The rule changes went into effect on October 22 and since no one matched all the numbers drawn on Tuesday, the November 29 jackpot was expected to keep growing to an estimated $230 million, some $125 million if the winner chose a cash prize. The winning numbers from Friday night's nationwide drawing were: 9, 41, 43, 47, 57, and 5, Mega Millions said. (Reporting by Barbara Goldberg and Eric M. Johnson; Editing by Robin Pomeroy)
Apple App StoreThe winter holidays are upon us, which means many traders and investors will be away from their workstations. So, what to do for those who want to keep tabs on what's going on overseas ‚Äî where markets will be open for business as usual? Luckily, investors with smartphones or tablets have their choice of apps to keep them up to speed while away from their desks. We went through nearly 100 finance-related mobile apps and these are the best ones we found. Most of the apps listed here are either free or pretty inexpensive, too.
