As you may have seen, Japan’s public debt has hit one trillion quadrillion yen. That is roughly $10 trillion. It will reach 247pc of GDP this year (IMF data). No problem. Where there is a will, there is a solution to almost everything. Let the Bank of Japan buy a nice fat chunk of this debt, heap the certificates in a pile on Nichigin Dori St in Tokyo, and set fire to it. That part of the debt will simply disappear. You could do it as an electronic accounting adjustment in ten seconds. Or if you want preserve appearances, you could switch the debt into zero-coupon bonds with a maturity of eternity, and leave them in a drawer for Martians to discover when Mankind is long gone. Shocking, yes. Depraved, not really. It also doable, and is in fact being done right before our eyes. That is what Abenomics is all about. It is what Takahashi Korekiyo did in the early 1930s, and it is what the Bank of England is likely to do here (while denying it), and the Fed may well do in America. Japan’s QE will never be fully unwound. Nor should it be. If a country can eliminate a large chunk of unsustainable debt without setting off an inflation spiral, or a currency crash, or the bubonic plague, there has to be a very strong reason not to do it. I have yet hear such a reason. Though I have heard much tut-tutting, Austro-outrage, and a great deal of pedantry. It is also what the Romans did time and again over the course of the late empire, though less efficiently, since they did indeed inflate. And no, even that was not fatal. The Roman Empire did not collapse because of metal debasement. It revived magnificently under the Antinones. As Gibbon discovered deep into his opus — and too late to change his title — the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire took an awfully long time, to the point where the concept is meaningless. Money is hugely important, but also ultimately trivial. The productive forces of a society are what matter in the end. Japan’s current debt is roughly the same level as that reached by Britain after the Napoleonic Wars, though Britain produced half the world manufactured goods and controlled half the world’s shipping in the early 19th Century (or at least by 1840), so it had a bigger shock absorber. Does Japan’s debt matter? Yes, of course it does. A country with a shrinking workforce and surging old-age costs, cannot bear such a load. But let us be clear what it means. The IMF says “net debt” is about 140pc of GDP, and this is the relevant gauge. The rest is offset by the Bank of Japan’s holdings of US Treasuries, and its internal holdings of Japanese government debt (JGBs, etc). These two charts from BNP Paribas are worth a look. They show the BoJ bond buying spree, and the curative effect of a whiff of inflation on the debt trajectory: The Telegraph The Telegraph The BoJ is currently buying 70pc of the total state debt issuance each month, and my guess is that it will be buying over 100pc before long since the economic rebound will lead to a surge of tax revenues that greatly reduces the fiscal deficit. It will soon enough to be able to carry out some really worthwhile legerdemain. Governor Haruhiko Kuroda cannot admit that the BoJ is now a financing arm of the Japanese finance ministry (as it was under Takahashi), or that the bank is systematically mopping up as much debt as it can get away with, while the going is good, never to be repaid. He cannot utter the word monetisation. So far, he is getting away with it. Ryutaro Kono from BNP Paribas says it is remarkable the Japanese bond vigilantes have not reacted at all to reports that premier Shinzo Abe may delay or lessen the planned rise in VAT. Mr Kono cites this as proof that “financial repression” has overwhelmed the bond market. The wild yield spikes we saw when Kuroda first took over have subsided. 10-year yields are 0.74pc, where they were before Abenomics began, and much lower in real terms, which is the key point for debt dynamics. The market is now crushed by overwhelming force, quiescent for now. Is there a cost to this? Sure. It is an internal redistribution of wealth within Japanese society from creditors to debtors (debtors in this case being the state). It is an inter-generational transfer. Those retiring in five, ten, or fifteen years will be poorer: but the burden on those who are now young children will be less onerous. That is a political choice for the Japanese people to make. But it does not mean — in itself — that Japan is is bankrupt. It just means that baby boomers will not be comfortable as they expected. Could the whole experiment go horribly wrong? Will there come a moment when the bond vigilantes do wake up, and push yields much higher, setting off a crisis, requiring yet further financial repression, and probably capital controls. Probably, yes. But what is absolutely certain is that Japan was heading for an almighty smash-up under the old BoJ policy of deflation, paralysis, and broken will. High debts and deflation are a calamitous mix. Japan has to pick its poison. Abenomics is surely the sweeter brew. 
Kathleen Tyler ConklinProfessional social situations can be awkward. The rules are slightly different from standard social settings, yet business schools rarely discuss professional etiquette topics. In her new book "The Essentials Of Business Etiquette," Barbara Pachter writes about the specific skills professionals need to understand when presenting themselves in a business setting. From how to introduce yourself to what to order at restaurants, these are the social rules you need to know when establishing relationships. Pachter has given us permission to use these excerpts from her book.
TumblrOn Wall Street, you work long hours, so a coffee addiction is almost inescapable. It's not just that you need that caffeine, it's that it's a part of the job's culture. When you start out as a young analyst, the boring hours between spreadsheets and pitch books are spent going on Starbucks runs. Unless you can get the interns to go get it, of course. Our love of coffee noted, it's very possible to drink too much coffee, and that can be harmful to your body. Research shows that ingesting too much caffeine (500-600 milligrams or 5 or more cups of coffee) can cause anything from restlessness to muscle tremors. So keep all this in mind when you order your next double shot of espresso.
REUTERS/Scott OlsonTraders and clerks frantically signal trades in eurodollar futures at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange after the Federal Reserve announced a hike in interest rates, June 30, 1999.The monthly nonfarm payrolls ("jobs") report and the "advance" GDP reading put out by the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis every quarter are the two biggest market-moving economic data releases for both stocks and bonds. Less widely-followed releases, like the monthly reports on regional manufacturing activity put out by the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and Chicago, have less of an impact on the market. Ironically, the jobs and GDP releases contain the least amount of information about the course of future economic growth, whereas the regional data are much better predictors of such activity. These are the findings of a new report by Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius. "Our results suggest that these investors will put too much weight on indicators that tend to get heavily revised and are not very informative in real time," says Hatzius. "Moreover, many investors seem to look for a simple, high-profile summary of the performance of the economy, rather than piecing together a composite picture from many different reports. And the highest-profile indicators are the monthly employment report and the quarterly GDP report." The charts below show the impact on markets of various economic indicators. The nonfarm payrolls and advance GDP releases are clearly the biggest market movers, while the Chicago and Philly Fed reports are among the least likely to move markets. Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research The next chart shows each data release's impact on Goldman's proprietary "current activity indicator," one of the firm's favorites for measuring economic growth. "Our most important finding is that the impact of both nonfarm payrolls and advance GDP is small and statistically insignificant," says Hatzius. "In contrast, the Philly Fed index, the Chicago PMI, and initial jobless claims contain a statistically significant and economically meaningful amount of information for growth. For example, an increase in the first-release Philly Fed index equivalent to a [one standard deviation] surprise (about 8 points) is associated with an average growth pace of our CAI over a 6-month period that is almost 0.3 [percentage points] higher." Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research So, if the nonfarm payrolls and advance GDP releases are the biggest market movers, yet contain the least relevant information for the future course of economic growth, then where's the disconnect? Hatzius identifies two reasons: 1. First-release data can look very different from fully revised data.  It is difficult to overemphasize the importance of using first-release data for the explanatory variables in our analysis ... payrolls and GDP are subject to heavy revisions between the first release and the fully revised version. Some of these revisions occur in the next monthly or quarterly release, and some occur with much longer lags via the annual revisions. And they are very important; if we re-run our regressions using fully revised data, both payrolls and GDP become statistically significant as predictors of future growth. But revised data are obviously not available in real time. 2. Timelier indicators are much more valuable than less timely ones. Nonfarm payrolls are always released three weeks after the survey week, which typically means the first Friday of the month. In contrast, jobless claims are released just five days after the week to which they refer and the Philly Fed is released near the middle of the month. This issue is very significant in the context of our analysis. We can see this by re-running the regressions reported in Exhibits 4 and 5 without controlling for timelier economic indicators for the current month, e.g. jobless claims and the Philly Fed. In this version of our analysis, payrolls now become highly statistically significant. (Advance GDP is only marginally significant even if we drop all of the timelier indicators.)  There is, of course, one other major factor tying the nonfarm payrolls report to big moves in the market: the Federal Reserve's decision in December with the introduction of the "Evans Rule" to condition changes in monetary policy largely on developments in the labor market. "Given the limited usefulness of first-release nonfarm payroll numbers, we believe that the distinction between an initial print of 162,000 and one of 180,000-200,000 is too small to determine whether Fed officials should make a significant policy change," says Hatzius. "But if the markets have some reason to believe that this distinction will in fact drive Fed policy, the outsized response to relatively small and economically meaningless payroll surprises may not be so irrational."
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonResearch in Motion (RIM) President and Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins raises his arms during the launch of the RIM Blackberry 10 devices in New York January 30, 2013.NEW YORK/TORONTO (Reuters) - A deal to take BlackBerry Ltd private could make sense from a financial standpoint, say private equity executives, though any such move won't by itself make the smartphone company more competitive. The numbers for a leveraged buyout could still work, these executives said, after a Reuters report that BlackBerry's board was warming up to the possibility of going private as it fights to revive its fortunes. The company's new openness to a leveraged buyout follows six weeks in which BlackBerry shares have taken a pounding, as sales of its new line of smartphones have so far failed to live up to the expectations of some analysts. The company is still bleeding subscribers and it faces an uphill battle to regain market share from Apple Inc's iPhone and devices that run on Google Inc's Android operating system. Even so, the company has a core stable cash flow element that could support debt for a leveraged buyout, say some senior private equity executives involved in the sector. The sources asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to speak publicly. BlackBerry is currently worth about $5 billion, but many of its investors like Ross Healy, a portfolio manager with MacNicol &amp; Associates, whose clients own BlackBerry shares, note that the company has more than $3 billion in cash alone. "My own analysis tells me that the stock is worth an awful lot more than $5 billion," said Healy. While sources told Reuters that no deal is imminent and that BlackBerry had not launched an active sale process, its openness to going private signals a major shift in the thinking of its management, which has long focused on engineering a turnaround as a public company. BlackBerry declined to comment on the Reuters report that its management is open to the idea of going private. A senior executive at a large Canadian pension fund that has worked closely with private equity players agreed that the math of a leveraged buyout could work, and that they and other funds in the country would consider getting involved in any such deal should it arise. "In terms of the scale and the nature of the asset, if you are convinced that the value is there, there is no reason why PE wouldn't look at it," the pension fund executive said. "If private equity can buy Dell, they can buy anything," the executive said, referring to Silver Lake Partners and founder Michael Dell's efforts to buy the struggling PC maker for $25 billion. NO PANACEA To be sure, going private would not likely be a panacea for BlackBerry. Private equity executives and analysts contend there was no obvious way to restructure the company in the aftermath of any buyout. One idea is to separate the handset business and focus on the company's network and infrastructure, which is known for its security, said private equity executives who have looked at BlackBerry. But the executives said there are no obvious buyers for the company's handset business. In fact, a wide range of private equity firms as well as technology companies have looked at BlackBerry over the past two years as its once-dominant business went into a tailspin. Last year, sources said companies, including Microsoft Corp and Amazon.com Inc held talks with BlackBerry about possible tie-ups. And earlier this year, a senior Lenovo executive said the Chinese computer maker would consider a bid for BlackBerry to boost its own mobile business. Sources say Wall Street bankers have also pitched deals that involve BlackBerry to companies such as HTC and Samsung. Yet, no one has managed to strike a deal so far. "The problems don't change whether you're private or public," said Charter Equity analyst Edward Snyder. "You're facing the same set of problems. It just comes down to whether or not one of the two structures is better set up to solve them." Even so, analysts and investors say taking BlackBerry out of the public eye could make sense, as it would give the company a bit more breathing room to work through its turnaround. "It makes a tremendous amount of sense for somebody who can invest patiently and who is not going to be looking at the stock price from day to day," said Healy. The company last year also named Timothy Dattels, a senior partner at private equity firm TPG Capital LP, to its board of directors, sparking a flurry of speculation that BlackBerry may consider a leveraged buyout, or going private. Dattels's nomination came last June, shortly after BlackBerry hired J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and RBC Capital Markets to help it evaluate strategies, including a possible overhaul of its business model, as well as other moves such as expanding the BlackBerry platform through partnerships and licensing deals. PARTNERSHIPS COMPLICATED Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry maintains that investors need to give it more time. As a first step, many analysts say BlackBerry is more likely to focus on collaborations and partnerships. And its Chief Executive, Thorsten Heins, has suggested the same. "We now have something to fight with and that offers us a lot of opportunities that the board and management can use in order to create value for this company," Heins said last month at the company's annual shareholder meeting. Heins stressed a focus on "go to market partnerships" and "investment partnerships" for BES 10 - the latest iteration of the company's mobile device management tool, which now also allows BlackBerry's corporate and government clients to manage and secure Apple- and Android-based devices on their networks. One source told Reuters on Thursday the company has recently had discussions with private equity firm Silver Lake Partners about potential collaboration in enterprise computing. Silver Lake has not had any discussions with BlackBerry about taking it private or any other transaction, the source said. But should Silver Lake's Dell buyout succeed, the source said, one option could be for a collaboration with BlackBerry in mobile computing - an area where the PC maker has struggled. Silver Lake declined to comment. While it is unclear how such a collaboration would work, or be structured, such a tie-up could prove to be attractive for BlackBerry, as it would boost confidence in its new platform and the company's overall strategic direction. Partnerships, however, are complicated and come with their own set of pitfalls. "Even if you partner, it doesn't mean that you're going to turn it around," Snyder said. "Nokia's partnership with Microsoft is not going anywhere. You have to pick the right partner and the arrangement has to be set up correctly." (Additional reporting by Allison Martell and Peter N. Henderson Editing by Paritosh Bansal, Frank McGurty and Ken Wills)
REUTERSReport: Feds to arrest 2 former JPMorgan employees suspected of concealing $6B trading loss NEW YORK (AP) — Federal authorities plan to arrest two former JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. employees on suspicion that they tried to conceal the size of the investment bank's $6 billion trading loss last year, according to a published report Friday. The New York Times, citing persons briefed on the matter, reported that Javier Martin-Artajo and Julien Grout are expected to be arrested in London in coming days. Martin-Artajo oversaw JPMorgan's trading strategy in London, while Grout recorded the value of the soured investments, the newspaper reported. A federal grand jury voted to indict both on criminal fraud charges, according to the report. Federal investigators have concluded that Martin-Artajo directed Grout to falsify records and conceal more than $400 million in losses from their superiors at the bank, the newspaper reported. The charges against Martin-Artajo and Grout hinge on the cooperation of Bruno Iksil, a trader at JPMorgan in London who placed the large bets that led to the loss, according to the report. Iksil, dubbed the "London Whale," is not a target of the Justice Department or the Securities and Exchange Commission, according to a separate report in The Wall Street Journal. The U.S. attorney's office in New York declined to comment late Friday. A call left with the FBI office in New York was not immediately returned. The trading loss disclosed in 2012 was an embarrassment for the biggest U.S. bank and raised concerns about risk-taking at Wall Street banks four years after the financial crisis. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Wikimedia CommonsShiva, destroyer of all that is inferior.With stock prices near all-time highs, investors have grown increasingly uncomfortable about where the markets may head in the near-term. Perhaps the better idea is to think long-term. In a new report titled, "The Search for Creative Destruction," the analysts at Goldman Sachs do just that. "We showcase eight secular disruptive themes that we believe possess the potential to command greater attention in the coming years," wrote lead analyst Robert Boroujerdi. "Indeed, these stories through product or business innovation are poised to transform addressable markets or open up entirely new ones, offering growth insulated from the broader macro environment and creating value for their stakeholders, in our view." Goldman's themes cut across all industries from manufacturing to finance to tobacco. We've put together the most important data within each "destroyer," describing what it does and quantifying its growth potential. Thanks to Goldman Sachs for giving us permission to feature their charts.
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleToday's new money millionaire is no stodgy railroad tycoon. Bolstered by continued success in tech, the number of millionaires in North America jumped 11% to 3.73 million, making it the region with the fastest growth, according to Bloomberg Markets Magazine. The question is, then, where is all that money kept? Bloomberg Markets ranked the top firms that manage money for the hyper wealthy. Many of the top multi-family offices are associated with banks (and often try to appear smaller for the sake of mystique). Some firms are independently operated. Right now there is plenty of new client potential all over the globe as assets held by the rich grew to $46.2 trillion last year thanks to success among the $30 million-plus crowd. Firms are looking for new money from Latin American clients in particular.  HSBC came in atop the list, with 340 families and $137.3 billion in assets. Northern Trust (3,457 families, $112 billion) and Bessemer Trust (2,200 families, $77.9 billion) took home the silver and bronze, respectively. 
REUTERS/China DailyFellow workers, a firefighter and doctors work together to cut steel bars which were pierced through a worker's body during an operation at a hospital in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, June 12, 2012.The world has watched in awe for three decades as China emerged from obscurity to become the second largest economy in the world. However, an economy that is so large and growing so quickly is inherently fragile. The tiniest catalyst could trigger wars, bring down the government, or launch protectionist policies that could send shock waves through the global economy. We can think of at least 10 very realistic, destabilizing risks facing China right now.
The US housing market can no longer be painted with one brush, as the housing recovery is playing out very differently across the country. Here are some anecdotes gleaned from our consulting team: Florida on sale to the world. Investors, investors, and investors. From Russia to China to the UK to Brazil, Florida is attracting investors from all over the world. Domestically, the institutional single-family renters are competing with local flippers, too. Good finished lots are now at peak prices in several markets. The active adult/retiree markets continue to experience strong growth. Contact Lesley Deutch for more info.North Carolina slows after surge. After a strong Spring housing surge, growing builder competition and a lack of fundamental economic growth are tempering local housing market recoveries. Dwindling lot supplies have also put pressure on builders to get ahead of the pipeline and self-develop communities to maintain volumes. Contact  David Kalosis for more info.DC moving South and West.   New home sales have remained fairly steady since the March 1 start of sequestration. The sequestration impact has been less than expected with buyers still purchasing homes but choosing smaller units or spending less on options and upgrades. Entry-level builders in particular are working closely with buyers who think they may be impacted by budget cuts. Land inventories in the Washington, DC metro area are limited, and the market is expanding southward and westward. Contact Ken Perlman for more info.Texas economy is growing big!  Entry-level buyers are struggling more here than other places, but that is always the case in Texas. The strongest economies in the country just seem to keep getting stronger, with a notable increase in license plates from other states. The continued economic growth and relocation demand has pushed land, lot and home prices to all-time highs. Apartment construction is booming. Houston is now the largest housing market in the country. In Austin, finished lots in A markets such as Cedar Park and west Austin are becoming more challenging to find, and residential development is migrating northward and westward into regions that had historically been considered B submarkets.  Contact Paige Shipp for more info. Midwest coming back to life.   Once the Midwest thawed out in April, the housing market thawed out as well. Job growth continues to improve, as do sale volumes. Pricing improvement is right around the corner. Builders in both Minneapolis and Chicago are now running out of desirable lots and are seeking viable development opportunities. Contact Lance Ramella for more info.Phoenix temperature cooling.   The white-hot land market in Phoenix may be cooling off. Homebuilders in the A markets are pausing to carefully consider land prices, after 12 months of rapidly escalating prices. Builders are still pursuing deals but are mindful of the impact of rising mortgage rates and price increases on price sensitive buyers. With temperatures over 100 degrees, it is tough to ascertain true demand in Phoenix right now. Contact Don Walker for more info.Vegas showing some rate sensitivity.   With most of the land around Vegas owned by the government, Las Vegas land supplies remain limited, and builders continue to search for finished lots. Prices for land continue to rise with public homebuilders dominating the Las Vegas market and aggressively bidding on residential land. In the last few weeks, we are starting to see a little pullback with rising cancellations. Contact Ken Perlman for more info. Georgia joins the recovery.   The Atlanta housing recovery has officially begun this year, as soaring demand continues in the popular Golden Triangle of North Atlanta. Supply constraints in the north are driving up lot values, especially as the market begins to shift from distressed lot transactions in exurban sprawls to new development within core A and B submarkets. Foreclosure buyers have been big contributors to the recovery. Contact David Kalosis for more info.   Northern California in sticker shock.   New home prices may have risen too much in the Bay Area, where consumers have pulled back due to sticker shock. While sales are still strong and price increases still common, rising mortgage rates and the remarkable appreciation of the last year-plus has left many potential buyers behind. Though the most desirable new home communities can simply move down their interest list with each new release, a general slowdown in appreciation is inevitable. See Dean Wehrli for more info.Riverside is again driven by coastal pricing.   Rapidly rising prices in Coastal Southern California markets are pushing more buyers back into the more affordable inland markets of Riverside and San Bernardino Counties, where sales are surging. Sales rates of 6 to 8 sales per project per month are common in A markets like Corona and Eastvale. Land prices are skyrocketing in the close-in markets, rising over 25% in just the last six months. See Pete Reeb for more info.Orange County supply is rising.   The birthplace of large-scale small-lot masterplans is exploding, with a plethora of new home communities recently opening. Sales are strong and driven by a significant number of foreign buyers who are moving in. See Mollie Carmichael for more info.Seattle expands outward.   Homebuilding is pushing out of King County. New home and lot prices in South Snohomish have soared over the last 12 months, and homebuilders are showing an increased appetite for land south of Seattle in Pierce County. As evidence, consider that Tehaleh in Bonney Lake, by Newland Communities, is now the best-selling masterplan in the metro area. See Ken Perlman for more info.
In announcing Thursday that it would be continuing its program of loose monetary policy until British unemployment levels have fallen to 7 percent, the Bank of England (BOE) intended to assure British households, businesses and investors that interest rates would remain low enough to support a nascent economic recovery for several more years. The central bank, after all, doesn’t see unemployment dipping below that threshold until 2016. But the message wasn’t as convincing as the bank’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) had clearly hoped it would be, and post-announcement trading indicated that the markets believed interest rates would rise sooner rather than later. The bank’s statement marked the first time it had issued forward guidance to give markets a line of sight into the trajectory of future monetary policy, something the U.S. Federal Reserve has long done, and it was a noteworthy demonstration of new central bank governor Mark Carney’s decision to begin telegraphing the BOE’s intentions. Markets were expecting the move. Chancellor George Osborne had asked central bankers to weigh in on forward guidance in August, and Carney has been an evangelist for such guidance since successfully introducing it in his erstwhile role as Canada’s chief central banker. There are two reasons the message came out muddled. The first, Credit Suisse’s Head of European Economics Neville Hill explained in a note called “Cautious Guidance,” was the inclusion of “knockout clauses” that gave the Bank of England room to abandon its forward guidance should inflation expectations rise too quickly or if current monetary policy were deemed to pose a “significant threat to financial stability.” Specifically, the central bank said it could consider abandoning forward guidance if inflation is still higher than 2.5 percent in 18 to 24 months, or if five-year inflation forecasts start to move steadily higher. That worried markets because with the official bank interest rate set at a record low 0.5 percent, inflation hit a 14-month high of 2.9 percent in June compared with 2.7 percent in May. Still, Credit Suisse’s Hill said markets are overreacting to the possibility that high inflation will lead to early rate increases. The BOE itself assigned 40 percent odds to inflation remaining above the 2.5 percent knockout level two years from now and said it expected inflation to decrease to the 2 percent target level in mid-2015, the end of the target period. The unlikely scenario that could trigger the knockouts, Hill said, would involve “a substantial, broad-based rise in inflation expectations across a broad range of business and consumer surveys, especially if it was accompanied by a sharp decline in sterling and rise in break-even inflation rates in fixed-income markets.” Hill also pointed out that the bank’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is responsible for coming up with the inflation forecasts around which the knockout clauses are based, so central bankers have plenty of leeway to keep monetary policy as is until they see fit to begin tightening by slowing asset purchases or raising rates. Besides, the MPC’s 18- to 24-month outlook has not called for inflation above 2.5 percent at any point in the last nine years – even before the most recent period of relatively high inflation. The committee is unlikely to start making such hawkish forecasts while forward guidance is in effect, Hill wrote. But markets do have another reason to worry that the dovish stance could end earlier than telegraphed – the higher-than-expected unemployment threshold that Carney and the Monetary Policy Committee chose as an economic goalpost. The U.K.’s jobless rate currently stands at 7.8 percent – not far from the 7 percent target. Credit Suisse had expected a 6.5 percent threshold, identical to the one the Federal Reserve has adopted in the U.S. While Hill noted that 7 percent is still well above pre-financial crisis levels, the central bank has argued that structural unemployment – a stickier form of unemployment that reflects a fundamental disconnect between available jobs and workers willing and able to fill the jobs – is higher now than before the downturn. Still, the U.K. economy is picking up, so unemployment levels should soon improve. The only question is by how much. The Markit/CIPS services purchasing managers’ index survey showed that in July, Britain’s services sector grew at a faster rate than it has since 2006, while business sentiment also reached a 15-month high The Bank of England expects economic growth to hit 1.5 percent in 2013 and 2.7 percent in 2014, up from May’s forecast of 1.2 percent and 1.9 percent. “Although the expected growth rate is not particularly strong by historic standards, it does imply a significant and sustained acceleration during the upswing,” Hill wrote. “Consequently, we think there’s a good chance that unemployment falls faster than the MPC anticipates, and in coming quarters, the MPC’s best estimate of when unemployment will fall below 7 percent is steadily brought forward.” To the extent that forward guidance was intended to reassure both investors and households, it might have done so for some. But it certainly didn’t solidify a consensus. Still, given the prevailing confusion among ordinary Britons about the future of monetary policy and interest rates, some sort of messaging was desperately needed, as Hill noted this week in a call with investors before the Bank of England announcement. “When one-third of the U.K. population still thinks interest rates are going up in the next 12 months, I think giving a very clear and specific message will be very important in increasing its impact beyond financial markets to economic agents more broadly in the U.K.,” Hill said. Even if the message is a little muddled, the central bank still has plenty of tools to begin tightening policy only when it judges the economy to be truly ready. Both the unemployment threshold and the inflation “knockout” clauses are not automatic triggers – they’re flags for the central bank to start reviewing its options, Hill explained. At least investors and the British public now know what to look out for.
The Spanish banking system passed a so-called "stress test" in 2012, but sovereign government bonds are are not included in the evaluation. We saw how well that worked with Greece (over and over again), and with Cyprus as well. It was Cypriot exposure to Greek bonds that collapsed the Cypriot banking system. With that backdrop, please consider Will Portugal Bring Down the Spanish Banking Sector? At its peak in the second quarter of 2008, France’s exposure to Greece totaled $86 billion. That exposure has since plummeted, partly because French banks took advantage of the ECB’s Securities Market Programme (SMP) during 2010-11 to fob off Greek bonds, effectively forcing a eurozone mutualization of the debt. SMP was terminated in September 2012. What is much less widely known is that Spanish bank exposure to Portugal today, as shown in our Geo-Graphic, is higher than French bank exposure to Greece in early 2010, despite the fact that the Spanish banking sector is only 40% the size of the French. Spanish bank stress tests in 2012 suggested that the capital hole was more manageable than widely feared, but those tests looked only at the domestic lending books; foreign assets were excluded. Mish's Global Economic Trend Analysis A restructuring of Portuguese sovereign debt similar to the one completed by Greece, which involved haircuts of over 50%, could wreak havoc on Spain’s banking system. Yet delaying restructuring, as Greece is showing, may simply drag down Portugal—whose debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to approach 125% next year—faster and further, worsening creditor losses. Without an SMP to mutualize Spanish bank exposure to Portugal, the way it mutualized French bank exposure to Greece, delaying a Portuguese restructuring will also do nothing to help Spain weather the shock. The euro area has already lent Spain €41.3 billion to recapitalize its banks, but finding a politically palatable way to convert that debt into mutualized eurozone equity may be a necessary cost of sustaining the European single currency. Stress-Free Tests Recall that seven banks that now make up Bankia collapsed over bad real estate loans. Exposure to Greek bonds was not even the issue with Bankia, and the banks allegedly passed stress tests. Bankia needed a bailout, then another. And it is going to need another. Also recall that Greek bonds suffered thru round after round of haircuts which in turn caused a collapse in the Cypriot banking system. Sometime down the line, the same thing is going to hit Spanish banks.
