BESTST0RYWINS / YouTubeGerard MinackIn recent days, global economic data has gone from weak to worse. In the past few years, we've seen spring economic slowdowns accompanied by substantial stock market sell-offs. Yet the stock market -- even considering today's sell-off -- continues to be near all-time highs. What gives? In a note published on Monday, Morgan Stanley's Gerard Minack articulated the mentality of the market participants. ...This resilience is in part understandable: prior years‚Äô mid-year setbacks typically had an overlay of systemic stress. This, for now, is pure-and-simple macro disappointment. But the more important factor seems to be the strong consensus that any weakness will be temporary, with growth set to improve in the second half. ...Despite downgrading forecast June quarter GDP (partly as payback for upgrading March quarter forecasts), second-half forecasts are little changed, and point to significant acceleration later this year. On top of this, there‚Äôs a growing view that any near-term weakness will lead to further policy stimulus. Our team expects the ECB to ease monetary policy. More enticing ‚Äì but, for now, far more speculative ‚Äì is the view that the tide is turning against fiscal austerity. To summarize: 1) we've seen this before, 2) we think the slowdown is temporary, 3) we think significant weakness will trigger stimulus, and 4) we think fiscal austerity is now less likely. Still, Minack is pretty sure this resilience can't hold for too much longer. "With global growth and earnings now very soft, I still think that the odds favour near-term equity weakness."
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) ‚Äî North Korea says an American detained for nearly six months has been sentenced to 15 years of "compulsory labor" for crimes against the state. Pyongyang state media said Thursday that the trial took place Tuesday but provided no other new details in announcing Kenneth Bae's sentencing. Bae was tried in the Supreme Court on charges of plotting to overthrow the government. He could've faced the death penalty. The case further complicates already fraught relations between Pyongyang and Washington following weeks of heightened rhetoric and tensions. North Korea says Bae was arrested in early November in Rason, a special economic zone in North Korea's far northeastern region bordering China and Russia. The exact nature of his alleged crimes has not been revealed. Friends describe Bae as a tour operator. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Over The Long-term, Markets Always Reward The Optimists (Josh Brown) A thoughtful piece from The Reformed Broker: over the entire history of markets, the bulls always prove right, while the bears inevitably get left behind. "Winners and men and women of foresight and ambition do monumental things, pessimists watch them from the sidelines making a list of all the reasons things won't work out. The losers do get to win sometimes, too. But their victories tend to be Pyrrhic, as every calamity ultimately leads to opportunity when the dust clears." No one should be perma-anything, he adds. But if you must pick sides, it's obvious which way you should go. Check Out China's Exploding Credit Bubble (FT Alphaville) Here's a scary chart from Sanford Bernstein via FT Alphaville: the ratio of China's non-financial, non-government debt: Bernstein/FT Alphaville Financing costs keep rising, and much of China's growth now comes in the form of credit. Here's what happened last time something like this happened, according to the FT: "Non-performing loan ratios of up to 50 per cent and a clutch of zombie banks that kept on lending but created progressively less real economic activity." Haircuts Are Inevitable, And They're Already All Around Us (Bill Gross, PIMCO) Fiscal and monetary authorities have both been guilty of thinking they can address current crises while sparing bondholders from haircuts, PIMCO's Bill Gross writes. They're wrong. Gross: "...even IF QEs and near zero-bound yields are able to refloat global economies and generate a semblance of old normal real growth, they will do so utilizing historically tried and true ‚Äúhaircuts‚Äù that rather surreptitiously ‚Äútrim‚Äù an asset holder‚Äôs money without them really knowing they had entered a barbershop. These haircuts are hidden forms of taxes that reduce an investor‚Äôs purchasing power as manipulated interest rates lag inflation. In the process, governments and their central banks theoretically reduce real debt levels as well as the excessive liabilities of levered corporations and households. But they represent a hidden wealth transfer that belies the vaunted phrase 'good as money.' " The ECB Must Look Beyond Rate Cuts (Lorcan Roche Kelly) The ECB will announce its latest policy moves tomorrow, and odds are they're going to cut rates as signs of deflation mount. But Lorcan Roche Kelly of TrendMacrolytics says they must do more, like easing credit specifically for small and medium-sized businesses. "An announcement of a rate cut is a likely signal that the ECB is going to do nothing more. Conversely, no rate cut announcement should not necessarily be viewed as a time to sell. The data -- especially the inflation data -- demands a reaction from the ECB. If it -- correctly -- chooses not to use the interest rate tool, then anything else it chooses will have more of the "big bang" properties that can give the ongoing rally new legs. On the other hand, if the ECB does nothing at all, we will have the seen the top in the peripheral debt rally, at least until the ECB finally responds. All This Bad Data, And We Are Still Not Out Of Bullish Territory (Dow Theory) DT's Richard Moroney says recent weak prints from everyone you can think of are still not enough to tip the market into bearish territory, at least according to Dow transport and industrial moves. "Stocks have been choppy, with decent March-quarter profits countered by worries about weaker-than-expected sales and signs of a U.S. economic slowdown. Closes above this year‚Äôs all-time highs of 14,865.14 in the Dow Industrials and 6,281.24 in the Dow Transports would reconfirm the bullish primary trend. A near-term failure to surpass both those points would set the stage for a pullback, though we would be inclined to view a decline as a secondary correction in an ongoing bull market."
MarkitThe HSBC China manufacturing PMI report is out, and the numbers were worse than expected. The headline number fell to 50.4 in April from 51.6 a month ago. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg were looking for a reading of 50.5. This reading is also a tad below the preliminary (HSBC Flash) 50.5 number we got last week. Any reading above 50 signals growth. Here are the key points from Markit: From HSBC's Hongbin Qu: The slower growth of manufacturing activities in April confirmed a fragile growth recovery of the Chinese economy as external demand deteriorated and renewed destocking pressures built up. The looming deflationary pressures also suggest softer overall demand conditions. All this is likely to weigh on the labour market, which is likely to invite more policy responses in the coming months.‚Äù This report follows yesterday's official PMI report published by China's National Bureau of Statistics.¬† Their index fell to 50.6 from 50.9 a month ago.
There's no word more common in the investment game than this: Diversify. But diversity goes beyond just a mish-mash of different of asset classes. Geography is another way to cover all your bases ‚Äì‚Äì and it's a lot easier than you might think.¬† U.S. News &amp; World Report's Miranda Marquit¬†outlines three simple ways to get into the foreign investing game:¬† 1. Try seeking out foreign companies listed on U.S. exchanges. Why: It's easier to go through U.S. channels if you've got your eye on a hot foreign company. 2. Take advantage of low-cost index funds. Why: They're cheaper, for starters, and index funds or¬†exchange-traded funds¬†(ETFs) give you access to a host of asset classes you might not otherwise be exposed to. Just pay close attention to your risk tolerance ‚Äì‚Äì not all funds are created equally. 3. Consider¬†REITs. Why: If you're too squeamish to commit to plucking up property in foreign real estate markets, REITs might be the answer. They are real estate investment trusts that focus on foreign properties.
Flickr / dianaschnuthKorean spicy beef stewMarkets are open in Asia, and they're down early in the trading session. Japan's Nikkei is down 0.4% Korea's Kospi is flat. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is down 0.3% This comes in the wake of a big sell-off in the U.S. markets where the Dow fell by 138 points. Manufacturing purchasing managers index (PMI) reports from China and the U.S. point to a deceleration in global growth. At 9:45 ET, we will get the HSBC manufacturing PMI report from China.¬† Economists surveyed by Bloomberg are looking for a reading of 50.5, down from 51.6 a month ago. Any reading above 50 signals expansion.¬† However, a falling number signals deceleration.
FordApril auto sales numbers were released today, and every major manufacturer gave us the lowdown on just how many of each vehicle they sold last month. Total vehicles sold in April were 14.88 million units at a seasonally adjusted annualized rate, which was below analysts' estimates for an unchanged sales pace from March, at 15.22 million. Ford, GM, and Toyota each contribute four models to the top 19 best-sellers. Three Honda models make the list, and cars from Hyundai, Dodge, and Nissan round it out.
flickr / Paul LowrySWEETWATER ‚Äî About a year ago, talk began circulating in this West Texas town about a huge oil-producing formation called the Cline Shale, east of the traditional drilling areas around Midland. Then the oilmen and their rigs arrived. Now homes and hotels are sprouting, ‚Äúhelp wanted‚Äù signs have multiplied, and a major drilling company has cleared land to build an office and equipment yard. ‚ÄúIt is coming, and it is big,‚Äù said Greg Wortham, the mayor of Sweetwater, who also serves as executive director of the Cline Shale Alliance, a new economic development group. The Cline Shale, thousands of feet underground in a roughly 10-county swath, is just one of many little-tapped shale formations in Texas and across the nation, geologists say. That means the potential for oil and gas discoveries is theoretically huge, and the reason is technology. The rock-breaking process known as hydraulic fracturing, coupled with the ability to drill horizontally underground, has allowed drillers to retrieve oil and gas from previously inaccessible areas. Many shales will be too expensive or too small to develop, especially if oil prices fall or environmental regulations tighten. But in Texas, which is already the top oil-producing state, bullishness about a new era is pervasive. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre back into another phase of wildcatting, like the old-timers,‚Äù said Jamie Small, the president of Icon Petroleum, a Midland-based company that has worked in areas including the Cline Shale and another early-stage Louisiana formation called the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale. Barry Smitherman, chairman of the Railroad Commission of Texas, the state‚Äôs oil and gas regulatory agency, has said that oil production in Texas could roughly double by 2020. Much of Texas‚Äô production in the near future is likely to come from well-known formations like the Eagle Ford Shale of South Texas and the shales of the Permian Basin of West Texas. Figures from the Railroad Commission show that oil production in the Eagle Ford nearly tripled between 2011 and 2012, though a December research piece from Deutche Bank projects that the Eagle Ford's rapid growth will slow over the next 12 to 18 months. But with oil prices relatively high, around $90 a barrel, the quest for new shales is under way, often in regions where drillers had found oil (as they had in the Cline Shale area) in the pre-fracking era. Nearly every month brings reports of promising explorations, from New Mexico to Alaska, though some reports may deserve to be taken with ‚Äúa grain of salt,‚Äù cautioned Icon's Small. Within Texas, shales besides the Cline that are not household names include the Midway Shale, which is closer to the coast than the Eagle Ford in South Texas, and deeper layers beneath well-known formations in the Permian Basin. There is also shale under Austin, geologists say. Large-scale extraction of oil¬†and gas from shale is relatively new, which is why modern-day oilmen feel like explorers. Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, the process of breaking up underground rock with a high-pressure mix of water, sand and chemicals ‚Äî took off in the late 1990s in the Barnett Shale near Fort Worth. In recent years, aided by companies‚Äô ability to drill thousands of feet horizontally under the earth, fracking has expanded into areas like the Eagle Ford and the Bakken Shale of North Dakota. Shale, a fine-grained type of sedimentary rock, underlies much of the nation, according to Small, a geologist. In Texas, shales are especially abundant. That is partly because hundreds of millions of years ago, sediment from much of what is now North America washed down toward modern-day Texas, according to Don Van Nieuwenhuise, director of professional geosciences programs at the University of Houston. Marine organisms, from the days when Texas was covered by a shallow sea, were buried and cooked by the earth‚Äôs heat and eventually became oil. ‚ÄúWe have one of the thickest sedimentary wedges in the world,‚Äù Van Nieuwenhuise said. Sedimentary rock in the Gulf of Mexico can reach 50,000 feet in thickness, whereas it is about 3,000 feet thick near the Atlantic coastline, he said. That means that Texas could theoretically drill deeper than current onshore norms of about 10,000 feet to 15,000 feet. The existence of a shale does not guarantee successful oil and gas production, geologists say. A formation may hold little oil or gas ‚Äî or it may not be brittle enough for the fracking process to work effectively. Fracking is expensive; one well can easily cost $4.5 million to frack, Van Nieuwenhuise said. So drilling is likely to slow if global oil prices drop, as they have slightly from a year ago when they topped $100 per barrel. Natural gas drilling has already been slowed by lower gas prices. On the other hand, improving technology could boost production. ‚ÄúThe most optimistic of people¬†believe that we‚Äôve only seen the beginning of a burst of technological innovation, and if you look back from 2020 to fracking techniques in 2013, by 2020 you‚Äôll think these are sort of feudal times,‚Äù said Edward Morse, global head of commodities research for Citigroup. Morse noted that recent production forecasts had ‚Äúfallen short of where production growth has been.‚Äù Still, he said, political or environmental concerns could slow the rush to drill, as could a fall in oil prices. But with oil prices still high, some areas that were once an afterthought for oilmen feel like boomtowns. There are ‚Äúa lot more people coming in looking for hotels,‚Äù said Mikala Brownfield, manager of the Hampton Inn in San Angelo, a city in the Cline Shale region. She also gets business from oil workers who cannot find rooms in Midland, a two-hour drive away. Devon Energy, an Oklahoma City-based drilling company known for pioneering work in the Barnett Shale, has opened offices in the past 18 months in San Angelo and Abilene, in addition to a planned Sweetwater facility. It has nine rigs operating in the Cline and in the nearby Wolfcamp Shale. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôve had some encouraging results in the Cline, and we are hopeful and optimistic about our prospects for being successful in this play,‚Äù said Chip Minty, a Devon Energy spokesman. Cities with fast-developing shales may find it hard to keep up with the boom. If the Cline Shale gets going, ‚ÄúWhere are the workers going to be? Where are you going to put them?‚Äù asked Diana Davids Hinton, a professor of history at the University of Texas of the Permian Basin and a co-author of Oil in Texas. Already, she noted, Midland‚Äôs hotels and schools are full. In Sweetwater, Wortham acknowledged that housing remained a concern. However, he said, the schools and roads were well prepared, partly because the area had already experienced a build-out of wind farms. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs a lot more traffic than there used to be,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúAnd we haven‚Äôt started yet.‚Äù
Those of us who insist the federal government remain within the confines prescribed by the Constitution are used to condescending lectures about how the Constitution is a ‚Äúliving document‚Äù whose principles evolve over time. ¬†I was even once informed by the then-Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, who was widely considered one of Congress‚Äô leading constitutional authorities, that the constitutional requirement for a declaration of war was an anachronism! While Mr. French may not go that far, he is arguing that Congress turn the Commerce Clause on its head by passing the Internet Tax Mandate. ¬†The Commerce Clause was intended to facilitate free trade by giving the federal government limited power to ensure state governments did not impose taxes and regulations on out-of-state business. ¬†Contrary to modern belief, the Commerce Clause was not intended to give Congress power to regulate every sector of the economy. ¬†And the Commerce Clause was certainly not intended to allow Congress to help state governments collect taxes on purchases from out-of-state merchants. The National Internet Tax Mandate overturns the Supreme Court‚Äôs 1992¬†Quill v. North Dakota¬†decision that states can only force businesses to collect sales tax if the business has a ‚Äúphysical presence‚Äù in the state. ¬†Quill¬†represented a rare instance where the Supreme Court properly interpreted the Commerce Clause. ¬†Thanks to the¬†Quill¬†decision, the Internet has remained a tax-free zone, though some states require consumers to later pay taxes on products they purchased online. ¬†This freedom has helped turn the Internet into a thriving and dynamic sector of the economy, to the benefit of entrepreneurs and consumers. Now that status is threatened by an alliance of big business and tax-hungry state governments seeking new powers to force out-of-state business to collect state sales taxes. ¬†Far from updating the Constitution to fit the needs of the 21st¬†century, the National Internet Tax Mandate is a throwback to 18th¬†century mercantilism. The National Internet Tax Mandate will raise the costs of doing business over the Internet. Large, established Internet companies, such as Amazon, can absorb these costs, whereas their smaller competitors cannot. ¬†More importantly, the Mandate‚Äôs increased costs and regulations could prevent the creation and growth of the next Amazon. Raising prices on goods purchased over the Internet will also impose an additional hardship on American consumers, many of whom are already struggling because of the troubled economy. ¬†And giving ravenous state governments new authority to tax sales made by out-of-state businesses practically guarantees future sales tax hikes, as the arguments will be made that most of the increases will fall on out-of-state businesses. ¬†These businesses will lack effective ability to oppose the tax increases ‚Äî a form of taxation without representation. Contrary to Mr. French, it is the proponents of the National Internet Tax Mandate who are embracing outdated principles, such as higher taxes on prosperity, piling more regulations on already over-burdened workers, and legislation designed to help entrenched businesses at the expense of their smaller competitors and consumers.¬† Opponents of the Internet Tax Mandate recognize that the principles of limited government and free markets represented by a true reading of the Commerce Clause provide a timeless guide to economic growth and prosperity.
Warren Buffett is shaking things up a little this year at the Berkshire Hathaway shareholder meeting. He's invited hedge fund manager Doug Kass, who is bearish on the company, to ask questions at the event. Kass, for his part, has shown signs of looking forward to being in a crowded arena with tons of people that completely disagree with him. To smooth things over in advance, he wrote a few things that he and Buffett have in common for The Street. Here are some of our favorites: As you can see, this is meant to be humorous, but at least Kass is trying. Read more of his attempts over at The Street&gt;
Facebook¬†reported its first quarter financials this afternoon. It beat revenue expectations and slightly missed on profits. Here's the release. Here are the slides. Here are the numbers: **Revenue: $1.46 billion vs $1.44 expected **EPS: $0.12 vs $0.13 expected **Mobile monthly active users: 751 Million, a 54% increase year-over-year. **Ad revenue: $1.25 billion **Mobile ad revenue was $375 million. That's¬†30% of total revenues, up from 23% last quarter. That's better than the $320 million JP Morgan analyst Douglas Anmuth was hoping for. **March DAU: 665 million. Two things we were looking for in particular were‚Ä¶ Mobile ad revenue growth. Facebook performed well here. Usage stats. 665 million DAUs in March is a slight uptick over 618 million in Q4. Facebook hosted an earnings call to go over the numbers at 5 p.m. eastern today.  We covered this call live. Here are our notes: He says its too early to talk about metrics. Paraphrase: "We haven't encourage people to install it through apps, yet." He said 81 of the top 100 grossing iPhone apps are integrated with Facebook. He says the ad unit makes sense to him because on the Web, ads drive people to Web pages. On mobile they should send people to apps. You can't open an app without an install. He says people aren't annoyed by News Feed ads, though Facebook is paying close attention to that. Here are the slides.  Now she's talking about clicks, and how they are not a good way to measure the success of advertisements.&nbsp; She says 99% of people who saw a Facebook ad and then bought the product in a store never clicked on an ad. She's talking about new targeting tools like custom audiences, where an advertiser can target users based on their own databases (for example, a list of customers who have not returned lately). This product got 2X more usage in Q1 as Q4. She says that Facebook can deliver ads to the 12 million people who are likely to buy a car in the next 12 months.&nbsp; He's repeating numbers you can find in the release. Here's the release. Here are the slides. Price per ad were up 3% Desktop revenue was flat w/ last year. Clients do not specify where their ads show up. Facebook just picks where the would perform best. Ebersman says that means desktop is not flat, just because ad revs are flat. Saw a record number of people playing games on Facebook.  Mark emphasizes the same point. &nbsp; Ebersman says RPU was up 21% q/q. He doesn't have anything to say about seasonality. Q4 to Q1 is always that way. Zuckerberg says that Instagram is doing really well, growing quickly. "That's the right focus for them." He says brands are putting photos into Instagram and getting great engagement. They're growing a lot faster now than Facebook was. Sheesh.
Phillipe LeroyerA day after hitting an all-time high, stocks took a beating thanks to some ugly economic news. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,700, -138.8 pts, -0.9%S&amp;P 500: 1,582, -14.8 pts, -0.9%NASDAQ: 3,299, -29.6 pts, -0.8% And now the top stories:
Pope Francis on Wednesday condemned as "slave labour" the conditions for hundreds of workers killed in a factory collapse in Bangladesh and urged political leaders to fight unemployment in a sweeping critique of "selfish profit". The pope said he had been particularly struck by a headline saying workers at the factory near Dhaka were being paid just 38 euros ($50) a month. "This is called slave labour!" the pope was quoted by Vatican radio as saying in his homily at a private mass in his residence to mark May Day. More than 400 workers have been confirmed dead and scores are missing in the collapse, which occurred in a suburb of the capital Dhaka last week in the country's worst-ever industrial disaster. "Today in the world this slavery is being committed against something beautiful that God has given us -- the capacity to create, to work, to have dignity," the pope said at the mass. "How many brothers and sisters find themselves in this situation!" he said, as protesters in May Day demonstrations around the world rallied against unfair work conditions and unemployment. "Not paying fairly, not giving a job because you are only looking at balance sheets, only looking at how to make a profit. That goes against God!" the pope said in his strongly-worded address. The Argentine pope, formerly the archbishop of Buenos Aires Jorge Bergoglio, became a powerful voice on the side of the poor during his homeland's devastating economic crisis. Since being elected pontiff in March, he has repeatedly called for the Roman Catholic Church to be closer to the needy and has said he wants "a poor Church for the poor". The 76-year-old later spoke to thousands of followers in St Peter's Square, urging politicians to fight unemployment and calling for greater "social justice" against "selfish profit". "I call on politicians to make every effort to relaunch the labour market," he said in his traditional weekly address. "Work is fundamental for dignity," he said. He spoke of "labour market difficulties in various countries" -- an apparent reference to the unemployment crisis afflicting Europe. Unemployment is often caused by "an economic conception of society based on selfish profit outside the bounds of social justice," he said. The Vatican has often been sharply critical of unregulated capitalism, particularly in recent years during the global financial crisis. "We do not get dignity from power or money or culture, no! We get dignity from work," he said, adding that many political and economic systems "have made choices that mean exploiting people".
Blu Electronic Cigarettes, Citi ResearchIn a massive new research report, analysts at investment bank Citi take a close look at 10 technologies they say will disrupt the way we do business.¬† They've dipped into practically every sector you can think of: energy, entertainment, IT, manufacturing, and transportation among them. Some of these technologies have been with us for awhile, but are poised to get better or cheaper. Others have only recently surfaced, but will be ubiquitous in a matter of years. This is what they say the future is going to look like.
Portfolio managers go by a number of job titles, work for various types of¬†investment companies¬†and manage different asset types. They work under an array of philosophies and employ unique investment strategies.  To provide a glimpse of what your life might look like if you pursued a career in portfolio management, we've interviewed three professionals in the field to see how a typical workday goes.Clayton A. Cohn, Marketaction.com  Securities trader Clayton A. Cohn is chairman, president and CEO of¬†Marketaction.com, a¬†financial services¬†firm and¬†Registered Investment Advisor¬†that provides services ranging from free portfolio guidance and securities analysis to full-service wealth management. He begins his daily routine at 5 a.m. to prepare for the opening bell at 6:30 a.m. From 7 a.m. to 8 a.m., he monitors the market, searches for opportunities and gauges the market's direction for the day. From 8 a.m. to 9:30 a.m., he combines work with leisure activities, blogging, writing and non-business responsibilities; he might even squeeze in a light nap. At 11 a.m. he monitors his positions, and at 11:30 a.m. he prepares for the market's final hour. From 12 p.m. to 1 p.m., he closes positions and researches and implements trades for the following day, but "if I'm¬†not in the mood to trade then I don't, because I'll usually lose money," Cohn says. After the closing bell, he performs¬†net asset value¬†(NAV) calculations and updates his accounts. 1:30 p.m. marks the beginning of a two-hour, company-wide meeting to discuss what's going on in the market, current private investments and endeavors, and possible new opportunities to back, such as start-ups or proprietary inventions. On the weekends, he takes care of company issues that aren't market-related, such as corporate filings, compliance and client matters. He enjoys a work-hard, play-hard lifestyle and travels a lot for work, including taking his company on a retreat every few months. While his team continues to monitor the markets during these getaways, past trips to Las Vegas and to the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Annual Festival have proven to be great bonding opportunities and productive times for discussing¬†new ideas. "I'm always working. I love what I do. I make money by making people more money, which is a great feeling. I also love the markets," Cohn says. "To me it's like playing a video game, and like any video game, the more you play and the more you practice, the better you get. Except in this case ... the better you get at the game, the more money you make."Adam Koos, Libertas Wealth Management  Adam Koos is president,¬†portfolio¬†manager and senior financial advisor at¬†Libertas Wealth Management Group, Inc.¬†in Dublin, Ohio. He is a registered¬†investment advisor representative¬†and broker and has attained the Series 7, 63, 31, 24, and life, health and long-term care insurance licenses. He specializes in stock portfolio management, wealth accumulation and protection,¬†retirement and estate planning,¬†and retirement asset management. His firm uses a "defense first" portfolio management strategy to defend clients' portfolios from loss and help them preserve their nest eggs. Koos usually wakes up at 6:30 a.m. and spends the first hour and a half of his day reviewing research on different asset classes, sectors, individual stocks and ETFs. Around 8 a.m., he starts looking at the real-time movement of the "pre-market" to see how the market might come out of the gate. He heads to the office around 9 a.m. and often has three to four appointments with clients throughout the day for portfolio reviews and¬†financial planning, which keep him quite busy. He also spends about three hours a day responding to emails. "Throughout the day, I check real-time movement of our portfolios via the office, or if I'm away from the office for any reason, I'm constantly checking my phone," Koos says. "I've also set up alerts on all the positions I own so that if something happens in any investment in our portfolios, I get a text message and an email so that I can take immediate action." Because he only has four¬†managed portfolios¬†‚Äì stocks, ETFs, bonds and socially responsible investments ‚Äì that are allocated differently for each client, he is able to watch every client's portfolio daily since they own the same investments. These are also the investments that he and his team own.  Koos typically doesn't trade at or just after open or at or just before close, though he does¬†monitor the markets¬†for any panic over the "apocalypse du jour," he says. Throughout the day, he monitors Twitter, Bloomberg.com, CNBC.com and Marketwatch.com for breaking news. At the end of the day, he reviews the firm's portfolios and checks his subscriptions for any news he might have missed during the day. Three nights a week, he's usually home by 6 p.m. to help with the family dinner and put the kids to bed. One night he volunteers with a business organization, and another night he takes late appointments until 9 p.m. He usually spends another hour in the evening tying up the day's loose ends and doing market research. "I might be looking at¬†relative strength¬†comparisons between asset classes or stocks. I might be looking for trends to emerge up or down in sectors, asset classes or the overall markets," Koos says. He also spends two to three hours per day on the weekend working. In addition to his daily activities, Koos typically spends three to four hours per week writing articles, commentary and communicating with reporters. He only places trades about once a week, which is a simple task since everyone has the same portfolio. If he thinks a stock needs to be sold, he sells it across all his clients' accounts simultaneously. During major events, Koos might spend extra time on research. "The week before the¬†U.S. Treasury debt was downgraded¬†in August 2011, I spent the entire week and almost every night burning the candle at both ends, adjusting stop prices, considering short and inverse positions and playing out different scenarios," Koos says. Also, when the market pivots, he updates his retirement plan clients regarding what to do in their individual plans based on his models and their¬†risk tolerance. His family life is a top priority, but work keeps Koos quite busy and limits his social life to Buckeye football season. He finds time for vacations by arriving early or leaving late when he attends an out-of-town business conference; he also makes time for one vacation a year with his immediate family and another with his extended family. "There are usually between 12 and 17 of us renting a big house we can all stay in for a week and do some catching up and bonding," he says.Tim Mrock, CitrinGroup  Tim Mrock is CEO and director of investments for¬†CitrinGroup¬†in Birmingham, Mich. He worked his way up to his current roles via positions in the banking sector, then as head trader and director of operations for CitrinGroup. He is director of the firm's Model Portfolio Construction and Implementation process and is a founding member of its Investment Advisory Board. Mrock begins his workdays at 8:30 a.m. by prioritizing his tasks for the day. Then he spends half an hour reviewing the prior day's transactions and activity across all portfolios and¬†determining trading strategies¬†to execute during market hours. From 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m., he works on a long-term project related to the improvement of portfolio construction, implementation and/or oversight. He then spends the next hour going over the current day's market activity and portfolio behavior. He also reviews news stories applicable to the portfolios he manages and to their underlying¬†investment philosophies. Around 11:30 a.m., he spends half an hour checking in with his team and discussing market, economic and portfolio activity, then takes a half hour break. From 12:30 p.m. to 1:00 p.m., he executes the day's trades; he then spends another three hours on a long-term project, with a short break halfway through.¬† He spends the last two hours of the workday reviewing the current day's market activity and portfolio behavior, checking in with his team and assessing the actual day against his morning projections. He ensures that his notes and follow-ups for the day are complete and prioritizes the next day's tasks. Mrock works eight to 10 hours a day and puts in time most weekends, too, but tries to find a balance between professional and personal time. His most important non-daily activity is discussing the firm's portfolio with both colleagues and firm outsiders to get insights for improvement. "It is an opportunity to challenge assumptions, analyze from different perspectives and mitigate overlooking threats and opportunities," Mrock says. He tries to do this activity at least monthly. He also takes a monthly, in-depth¬†look at portfolio behavior, analyzing actual measures of risk and return and the portfolio's deviation from expectations.The Bottom Line  These three portfolio managers certainly don't have the worst hours in the financial services industry ‚Äì they put in long hours during the week and a few hours on weekends, but manage to find time for family, friends and vacations. They have different types of clients and investment objectives, but they share a love of markets and investment analysis. If you possess these passions as well, it's just a matter of finding or creating the right portfolio management firm for your investment philosophy and lifestyle.
APRep. Paul Broun (R-Ga.)House Republicans are preparing to move to a new strategy around raising the nation's debt ceiling, a plan that is already rankling some of the chamber's most hardline conservatives. As the Washington Post reported¬†and House GOP aides confirmed, the Republican leadership is considering tying their long-held goal of tax reform to the next debt-ceiling hike, which will likely come up in September. That marks a distinct shift from previous battles over the debt ceiling, in which Republicans demanded extensive spending cuts to domestic programs in exchange for a lift of the nation's borrowing limit. House Republicans figure that the new strategy will be more politically prudent. Tax reform polls well among voters, compared to spending cuts to programs like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. ¬† But two of the House's most staunch conservatives ‚Äî Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) and Paul Broun (R-Ga.) ‚Äî suggested that they will not be willing to give up the leverage of the debt ceiling to extract cuts.¬† "It would be a tough thing for me to support," King told Business Insider after attending a meeting of top conservatives in midtown Manhattan Monday. "I would not be thrilled with it as a deal. I do not like it." King and Broun cautioned that leadership hasn't approached either of them about the strategy and that they would have to see specific details before determining whether they could support such a plan.¬† Both of the Congressmen have voted twice in the past two years against raising the debt ceiling, and were part of a group that¬†killed House Speaker John Boehner's "Plan B" vote to avert the fiscal cliff in December. As such, they could provide a barometer for other House conservatives as the Republican leadership considers their new debt ceiling approach. Broun, too, suggested that it would be a hard proposal for him to support. "The debt ceiling is one of the only times where we can get the administration to come around" on spending cuts, Broun said.¬† Instead, Broun advocated an approach he has peddled over the past couple of years, including $155 billion in separate, "targeted" cuts that would slash funding for the TSA, the Energy Department, and the federal government's¬†Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children.  Broun also said he would like the House to continue to take up measures to de-fund the Affordable Care Act "at least once a month."
Nurburgring Race TrackThe Federal Reserve has completed its Federal Open Market Committee meeting, and it has just published its statement. For now, the Fed is on hold with its month purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds in its efforts to keep interest rates low. However, one of line that was new this time around was this: The Committee is prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes. In determining the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, the Committee will continue to take appropriate account of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases as well as the extent of progress toward its economic objectives. In other words, the Fed is ready to do more if necessary.
The Fed statement is out, and there's not much new in it. One change is that the Fed says that Fiscal Policy (the austerity imposed by Congress) is constraining growth. In the previous statement, it merely said that Fiscal policy was becoming more "restrictive." Here are the opening paragraphs of the last two statements: Fed FED
Wikimedia CommonsThe Federal Reserve has just released its latest FOMC statement on monetary policy. Some highlights: the FOMC acknowledges the recent slowdown in inflation, but says that longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. However, the FOMC also says it is "prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes." Below is the full statement: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in March suggests that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions have shown some improvement in recent months, on balance, but the unemployment rate remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector has strengthened further, but fiscal policy is restraining economic growth. Inflation has been running somewhat below the Committee's longer-run objective, apart from temporary variations that largely reflect fluctuations in energy prices. Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will proceed at a moderate pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee continues to see downside risks to the economic outlook. The Committee also anticipates that inflation over the medium term likely will run at or below its 2 percent objective. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee decided to continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months. The Committee will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. The Committee is prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes. In determining the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, the Committee will continue to take appropriate account of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases as well as the extent of progress toward its economic objectives. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee expects that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; James Bullard; Elizabeth A. Duke; Charles L. Evans; Jerome H. Powell; Sarah Bloom Raskin; Eric S. Rosengren; Jeremy C. Stein; Daniel K. Tarullo; and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against the action was Esther L. George, who was concerned that the continued high level of monetary accommodation increased the risks of future economic and financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in long-term inflation expectations. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL:†Heads up! The Federal Reserve announces the FOMC's latest decision on monetary policy at 2 PM ET. The big story surrounding previous FOMC meetings this year has been the outlook for the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing (QE) program. According to a survey conducted by Bloomberg News, consensus expectations are that the FOMC will begin tapering purchases of mortgage and Treasury bonds under QE beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 ñ from the current rate of $85 billion per month to $50 billion per month ñ before bringing purchases down to zero in the first quarter of 2014. For now, though, tapering bond purchases does not appear to be on the agenda any time soon. The main reason: a slowdown in several key economic indicators, especially on the inflation and employment fronts. BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris argues that due to disinflation (positive, but falling inflation), the FOMC is unlikely to have tapering top of mind. In fact, he says that down the road, the†FOMC may even elect to increase the amount of bonds it buys under the program if disinflation persists. Harris cites the BAML rates team in saying that there is probably room for the Fed to increase its buying of Treasury bonds from $45 billion a month to $70 billion a month. Along those same lines, UBS economist Drew Matus says any change in the way inflation is treated in the language of the statement is a key development to watch for. One area of concern we will be watching carefully is the inflation language. The†March statement read ìInflation has been running somewhat below the†Committee's longer-run objective, apart from temporary variations that largely†reflect fluctuations in energy prices.î  This acknowledged that the recent dip in†inflation was caused by energy prices - which are usually thought to be a boon†to the economy - and placed the emphasis on core inflation. However, comments†by some Fed officials have suggested the recent dip is a cause for concern. We†believe that the statement will reflect the view of the Chairman and, as such, any†change in the statement language may suggest an accommodative Fed for longer. Markets may already be pricing in such an outcome. "Ahead of the release of the FOMC statement today, investors will look for indications that the disappointing US data of late may have changed the policy outlook for the coming months," says Citi strategist Valentin Marinov. "We think that the FX markets are already leaning towards a more dovish Fed statement today with the dollar losing ground against EUR, JPY and GBP." We will have the full statement LIVE at 2 PM ET. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
The Wall Street Journal reports that high speed traders are exploiting a hidden loophole in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's (CME) computer systems, and that the CME has had knowledge that they are profiting from it. This is something people have talking about a lot in Wall Street circles. One of the reporters on this piece, Scott Patterson, wrote an entire book about it last summer called Dark Pools: The Rise of the Machine Traders and the Rigging of the U.S. Stock Market. The thing is, exchanges have never admitted outright that this is happening. The Journal's report relies not only on human sources, but also on a review of the CME's trading records. The CME is the largest futures exchange in the United States. The problem is that high speed traders have a direct connection to the CME's trading computers. That gives them access to a lot of information, not least of which, according to the report, is the execution of their own orders 1-10 milliseconds before the rest of the market can see them. Any firm that connects directly with the CME can do this, but not every trading firm has the technology to do it or even knows about this. As a result, non-high speed traders can experience order delays that the CME calls "latency." From CME spokeswoman Anita Laskey in the WSJ:  There are "times when customers experience a latency of a few milliseconds between the time they receive their trade confirmations and when the information is accessible on the public feeds," she said, noting that the delays "are not consistent and vary across asset classes." High speed traders say that this millisecond advantage is a positive thing for the market overall because they wouldn't want to trade as much without it. It would make high speed trading riskier, they argue, and without their trades the market would have less liquidity. However, Pete Kyle, a finance professor at the University of Maryland and former member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's Technology Advisory Committee, says that this is tantamount to "a tax on other traders." From WSJ: Firms can use their early looks at CME trading data in several ways. One strategy is to post buy and sell orders a few pennies from where the market is trading and wait until one of the orders is executed. If crude oil is selling for $90 on the CME, a firm might post an order to sell one contract for $90.03 and a buy order for $89.97. If the sell order suddenly hits, the firm's computers detect that oil prices have swung higher. Those computers can instantly buy more of the same contract before other traders are even aware of the first move. Firms can also capitalize on that early information by buying a related product on another exchange before other traders know of a market shift. For example, it takes about 200 microseconds for trades to get from CME's Aurora, Ill., data center to the computers of IntercontinentalExchange Inc. ICE¬†+3.61% about 33 miles away. A microsecond is one-millionth of a second. This is complicated stuff, so it'll be a while before it all shakes out. In the meantime, head to WSJ for the full report&gt;
Share the post "NYSE Margin Debt Approaches All-Time High" Disaggregation of credit is the understanding that there are good forms of credit and bad forms of credit. ¬†A good form of credit is something like a standard business loan in which a company obtains access to a line of credit in order to make investments in the firm. ¬†It pays employees, invests in equipment, etc. ¬†This form of credit, when issued prudently, is usually productive in that it helps the company expand and it rewards the lender for having taken the risk. As a credit based money system we rely largely on the health of these sorts of loans to keep the system running smoothly. ¬†But there are also bad forms of credit. ¬†For instance, when a homeowner decides they want to speculate on real estate as an investment because they (incorrectly) believe real estate can outpace inflation over the long-term. ¬†We could make this matter even worse by repackaging the original loan and selling it off to new investors as AAA rated securities. ¬†In other words, disaggregation of credit was a core piece of the 2008 crisis. I think another sign of disaggregation of credit is the extraordinary growth in borrowing that occurs around stock market booms. ¬†As the market surges we inevitably see a sort of ponzi effect in the market where more confidence breeds more credit and the bidding up of prices. ¬†It works until it doesn&#8217;t and when it doesn&#8217;t the air sure comes out fast. So it&#8217;s rather alarming to see NYSE margin debt just shy of its all-time high as of the March reading. ¬†My guess is we&#8217;ve actually already surpassed the all-time high though we won&#8217;t officially know until April data is released. ¬†Fun times knowing we live in a world that is built on such a fragile foundation. Chart via Orcam Financial Group:  &nbsp; Share the post "NYSE Margin Debt Approaches All-Time High" 
Google FinanceMarkets are tumbling. The Dow is down by around 95 points. This comes after a wave of ugly economic data from the around the world that points to a deceleration in global growth. Korean export growth fell sharply, Chinese manufacturing is decelerating, and U.S. job statistics continue to disappoint.
People have called me a ‚Äúperma-bull‚Äù forever. Mish Shedlock called me a ‚Äúwacko‚Äù. Zerohedge has called me insane. Nouriel Roubini has laughed in my face. My daughters still quote Don Luskin when he was on CNBC shaking his head and saying, ‚ÄúJames, James, James‚Ä¶‚Äù while laughing after I said the market was going to hit new highs. Well, the market has hit new highs. That‚Äôs ok for those guys. I‚Äôm sure they all do well on their newsletters. I have no newsletter. I only invest with my own money. I live and die in the markets and I don‚Äôt depend on anyone else. Is there a reason to change my mind? Not really. Eventually, the market will be higher than it is now. But for the first time in a long time, I‚Äôm not a super bull on the overall market (although I like certain smaller stocks, see below). The overall market (let‚Äôs say, the S&amp;P 500) price is a function of supply and demand. I know people know this from Economics 101 and they view this as a micro-economic principle but it‚Äôs also macro-economic. it‚Äôs not only the price of Oranges determined by supply and demand, the aggregated price of every company in the world is also determined by this. So what is ‚ÄúSupply‚Äù in terms of the stock market? Answer: it‚Äôs the total number of shares outstanding. What is ‚ÄúDemand‚Äù? It‚Äôs the appetite to buy shares. Supply is going down. This is both a good thing and a bad thing. The good: Companies have enormous profit margins and are using their excess cash to buy back shares. This, of course, reduces shares outstanding. When companies with $100 billion in cash like Apple buy back shares, this reduces supply for the big mutual funds, etc. Also good: When supply goes down, price goes up. This is why the stock market right now is at all time highs. But then there is the BAD: I am seeing first hand within the private companies that I am invested in: nobody wants to go public. How come? Private markets are valuing companies higher than the public is. That's really funny: the PUBLIC is actually smarter than the supposed smart money. Look at Facebook (FB), Groupon, and Zynga (ZNGA) for examples. And even the companies that want to go public: it‚Äôs pretty damn hard. I can‚Äôt quote you statistics. I only see this because I‚Äôm getting all the calls from brokers. If a broker is calling me to dump their little IPO it means they can‚Äôt get institutions in. How come? Demand: Everyone is still pretty nervous. Someone asked me the other day: when will this recession be over? Guess what? It‚Äôs been over for four years. But people don‚Äôt seem to know that? How come? Because they feel like crap. Because people are getting jobs less than what their skillset suggests they should get. Because people are taking jobs for pay that doesn‚Äôt match what they would‚Äôve gotten ten years ago. Underemployment, as this is called, is supposedly around 20% but my guess is it‚Äôs more like 30-40%. Things feel like they suck. Nobody feels like the stock market is back. Or that housing is starting to creep up. Or that America is starting to insource manufacturing again because globalization has crept up prices ¬†worldwide. People look at their crappy jobs and salaries and say, ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt feel so good‚Äù. And so they get a scarcity mentality and don‚Äôt want to buy shares. I don‚Äôt blame them. Meanwhile, supply is going to flatten out. There‚Äôs only so much stock that people can buy. So Demand will probably remain the same, but now Supply will stop going down. What happens then? Stocks go down. Or struggle to stay afloat. My solution: I am buying smaller stocks where I am not competing for information against massive hedge funds and mutual funds that do everything they can to cheat the system (insider trading, manipulative trading, high frequency trading, special access to secondaries, etc). I also invest in long-term demographic trends that I believe in. These companies will do well regardless of the overall stock market. It‚Äôs why microcaps always outperform large caps in the long run. So I‚Äôm invested in Petro River (PTRC)- America is the new Middle East in terms of oil. All of the oil that we stopped drilling for in 1971 because the technology was not there, we are now drilling for. Fracking is here to stay and will drill up the several billion barrels of oil underneath the Mississippi Lime. Corporate Resources (CRRS) ‚Äì I‚Äôm on the Board of Directors so can‚Äôt say much. Needless to say, no company wants to deal with the red tape of Obamacare. It‚Äôs a nightmare. Even Democrats now admit it. Google it. I‚Äôm not political. I haven‚Äôt voted since 1991. But a total of zero companies want to deal with Obamacare. So what do they do? They fire everyone and and outsource to temp staffing companies. That‚Äôs why I like being on the board. So I can see first-hand what is happening in this industry. Trovagene (TROV) and Cancer Genetics (CGIX)- We all know three things about healthcare over the next 10-30 years: - taxes are going up on medical devices. So this will be detrimental to the 77 million aging baby boomers who have just started retiring. - ‚Äúprevention is the cure‚Äù. People have ignored this for the past century but they can‚Äôt anymore. Lifespans have gone up. People need good diagnostics to prevent cancer and other diseases that are common killers. I can go into details on why these two are the best and I will at some point (I already have repeatedly on TROV when it was half the the price it is now). - Lifespans are going up. The average lifespan was 61 60 years ago. Now it‚Äôs 79 and going higher. So people will need medical care. Since people can no longer afford medical care, they will need prevention. The FDA, drug companies, insurance companies, and the government, have made medical care too expensive. So diagnostics, which are easier to get approval for, are the answer. Vringo (VRNG), Neonode (NEON) ‚Äì I own these for the patent plans which I‚Äôve described in multiple articles. And that‚Äôs it. My wife owns a handful of other big cap stocks but in small amounts. What I don‚Äôt do:¬†I never daytrade.¬†¬†I used to and I used to make a good living at it. But in ¬†the link above I describe why I don‚Äôt. And I will not own the broader market here.¬†It‚Äôs a criminal enterprise.¬†That‚Äôs a sucker‚Äôs game at this point.
Checking out a companyís annual report is a must for investors. The 10-K forms that public companies file with the Securities and Exchange Commission include audited financial statements, which along with other pertinent information, provides an overview of a firmís financial health. Luckily, Credit Suisseís accounting and tax research team says ìyou donít need to be an accountant laureateî to interpret these dense documents. In a two-part series, The Financialist will offer practical tips on how to mine a 10-K, based on a recent Credit Suisse note entitled ì10-K Checklist.î Click our annotated images below to zoom in. The Checklist: An Annotated Overview Part I: This is your introduction to the company. Some elements are self-explanatory, but weíve flagged the most important questions.  † Part II: The Nitty-Gritty. This is a go-to section for most investors, since it contains the financial statements, which weíll discuss in more detail later.  † Part III: Knock, knock. Whoís there? Part 3 gives you a rundown of key figures, as well as a hint about relationships within the company.  † Part IV: The Laundry List, so named for the raft of appended documents and information this section contains.  † Now, letís take a deeper dive. Management Discussion and Analysis In this section, company executives tell their version of the story, explaining revenue trends, uncertainties and upcoming events. If you still have questions after reading, watch out. ìWhen you see boilerplate disclosures that donít provide real answers as to why something happened, that may be a red flag, and you should ask yourself what the company is trying to hide,î Credit Suisseís note said. ìAt the very least, itís poor disclosure, and high-quality companies that want a premium valuation should provide high-quality disclosure.î Here are some specific things to look for: Liquidity and Capital Resources: As Credit Suisseís accounting and tax team notes, ìJust because a company looks happily liquid and flush with cash doesnít mean that itís readily available as a source of liquidity, especially if itís parked overseas,î in which case, the company might face a large tax bill to get at their money. Credit Suisse notes that more companies are disclosing where they park their cash, but if they donít, look out for an SEC comment letter [which] can also sometimes provide further detail. Other questions to ask: Could planned product releases, pricing changes, rising costs, changes in credit terms or other variables impact future cash flow? Watch for information about the sources and uses of cash, planned expenditures and how they will be funded, and whether the company seems to have enough cash to pay its bills. Contractual Obligations: There should be a table showing how much money the company owes as a result of contracts it has signed, as well as a payment timeline. Knowing how much companies owe and when payments are due can give you a better picture of the firmís cash cushion. Critical Accounting Estimates: Companies reveal here which of their accounting estimates and assumptions would significantly impact the financial statements if they were to change. Ask yourself whether the assumptions seem conservative or aggressive, and in light of that, how changes in these estimates could affect the bottom line. If the company has changed its assumptions, figure out whether the results reflect the new framework or the firmís actual performance. Off-balance-sheet activity: Youíre looking here for details on contracts, transactions and agreements with customers, lessors, asset purchasers and other people the company does business with. Try to figure out whether the moves make sense to you and if they seem like valid business deals. Decide whether you should factor them into your appraisal of the company. Financial Statements These figures provide a snapshot of the companyís financial well-being. Compare this statement to the one from the prior year to see if anything specific has changed in the way the information is being presented. Other key points: Balance sheet: Check if the assets and liabilities seem to be fairly stated and match up to each other. Note how the company finances itself and whether the structure of the balance sheet is overly complicated ñ and if so, why? Have you accounted for the companyís off-balance-sheet activities into your analysis? Finally, try to determine whether the company has sufficient liquidity, or whether it is sitting on a pile of cash that could be better used elsewhere. Statement of changes in shareholdersí equity: Donít blow by this section, which deals with dividends, share repurchases and share issuances. It also has information about accumulated other comprehensive income, such as what the company gained and lost from translating the balance sheets of foreign-owned subsidiaries into the currency the parent company uses, available-for-sale securities, derivatives held as cash flow hedges and changes in pension-funding status. Think about whether and when some of these issues might impact earnings. Audit opinion: Four words are red flags here: ìsignificant deficienciesî and ìmaterial weaknesses.î Changes in auditors should also draw your eye. Stay tuned for Part 2, when weíll dive into the all-important footnotes and a photo-illustrated guide to some key exhibits.  The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. 
Business InsiderMike JeffriesIt's no secret that CEOs make big money. But it can be truly shocking to see how much more they make than the people that work for them. Since most companies don't make that ratio available, Bloomberg calculated it based on the "U.S. government‚Äôs industry-specific averages for pay and benefits of rank-and-file workers" and disclosed total CEO compensation by companies for the fiscal year that ended in 2012. They found eight companies whose CEO made more than 1000 times what an average employee made. Each company was given the opportunity to respond to Bloomberg's calculations, and some disputed the methodology. Their comments can be seen here. JC Penney CEO: Ron Johnson (he was still CEO at the end of the FY ending in 2012) CEO to employee pay ratio: 1,795 ($53.3 million/$29,688)¬† Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Co. CEO: Michael Jeffries CEO to employee pay ratio: 1,640 ($53.3 million/$29,688)¬† Simon Property Group CEO: David Simon CEO to employee pay ratio: 1,594 ($137.2 million*/$86,003)¬† *from FY ended 2011 Oracle Corp. CEO: Larry Ellison CEO to employee pay ratio: 1,287 ($96.2 million/$74,693)¬† Starbucks CEO: Howard Schultz CEO to employee pay ratio: 1,135 ($28.9 million*/$25,463)¬† CBS Corp.¬† CEO: Leslie Moonves CEO to employee pay ratio: 1,111 ($69.9 million*/$62,930)¬† *from FY ended 2011 Ralph Lauren Corp. CEO: Ralph Lauren CEO to employee pay ratio: 1,083 ($36.3 million/$33,550)¬† Nike CEO: Mark Parker CEO to employee pay ratio: 1,050 ($35.2 million/$33,550)¬† Some companies argue that the bulk of their CEO compensation is in the form of long-term stock options that give them incentives to perform well and to work for shareholders, and others that it's necessary to keep top leaders from leaving for a competitor.¬† Successful CEOs do have an outsize impact, but the numbers and ratios have gotten so large¬†that it's not only demoralizing to employees, it's also increasingly hard to make a case to shareholders that justifies these astronomical figures. Overall pay goes up and down, but the trend is way up as the below chart shows. And if a company is successful, why does so much more go to the CEO, and so little to rank and file employees? The State Of Working America There's an potential solution that's been started but not finished. The Dodd-Frank financial reform bill includes a provision requiring companies to disclose this ratio. However, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) hasn't drawn up the rules that would put it into action. Companies are actively lobbying against the rule, which shows the power that employee-to-CEO ratios have to put compensation into context. ¬† The first step is to actually pass that rule so the information's out there. The second one is to beef up the ability of shareholders to context excessive pay. Right now "say on pay" votes are embarrassing, but non-binding.¬† Maybe in some cases, extraordinary effort and success deserves to be rewarded. If that's true, then companies should be able to make a convincing argument, and not have to worry about shareholder votes. Many of those supporting the lobbying effort against disclosure are at the high end for those ratios, which seems to imply that they don't feel that their argument for the higher discrepancy in pay is all that strong.¬†

The Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exams are considered among the most difficult tests on Wall Street. There are three levels of exams and all three will be administered on June 1. One of the more basic concepts that get addressed on the exams is return on equity (ROE). Simply put, ROE is net income over a company's book value of equity. Unfortunately, ROE alone doesn't tell you much about a company's operating or capital structure. That's why analysts decompose the ROE into multiple components (see below). CFA exam test-takers are exposed to at least two decompositions of ROE.† The more complicated one is the DuPont model. Goldman Sachs recently included the formula for reference in a recent note sent out to its clients. Goldman Sachs As you can see, the DuPont model breaks ROE down to five components. From left to right: As you can see, this is much more information than what you would get from just income and equity. Everyone in the CFA program must remember and master this concept. Novice investors who want to take it to the next level should master this too.
YahooMore good news on the housing market. Yesterday,¬†the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price index¬†posted its biggest annual increase since 2006‚Äîjust before the housing market crash. Home prices in all 20 metro areas included in the index rose for the second month running. Phoenix led, with a 23% annual increase followed by San Francisco (18.9%), Las Vegas (17.6%) and Atlanta (16.5%). Still,¬†Robert Shiller,¬†co-creator of the index, is cautious. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs a lot of excitement in the housing market now but it might be just short term,‚Äù he tells The Daily Ticker. Shiller says the housing market is operating in an ‚Äúabnormal economy‚Äù where the Federal Reserve is buying $40 billion worth of mortgage securities and $45 billion worth of Treasury notes each month. This has driven mortgage rates to record lows. According to Freddie Mac‚Äôs weekly survey out last Thursday, the average rate for a 30-year fixed rate mortgage is a record low 3;4%; for a 15-year fixed rate mortgage it‚Äôs a record low 2.61%. The Fed will eventually stop buying these securities, says Shiller, and mortgage rates will rise. Shiller, also an economics professor at Yale University, says the biggest home price increases now are seen in multifamily rather than single family homes which reflects a shift from home ownership to renting. The buyers are investors who rent their properties. ‚ÄúMost of the increase in households in this country has been met by an increase in renting,‚Äù says Shiller. ‚ÄúMy own survey data with Chip Case confirms that people feel more positive about renting.‚Äù He suggests that those investing in real estate buy homes that are most suitable to convert to rentals. Another shift that¬†Shiller¬†observes in the housing market is the growing popularity of urban areas and suburbs near those areas. Shiller says people don‚Äôt want to commute long distances because of relatively high gasoline prices and in the current ‚Äúideas economy,‚Äù many want to live in close proximity to others. There are also demographic shifts: aging baby boomers who no longer enjoy working on the upkeep of their homes and the increase in single-person households. When asked where this all leaves the housing market 10 years from now, Shiller says home prices will be ‚Äúabout where they are now‚Äù after adjusting for inflation. Here's the video &gt;
Yahoo Daily TickerNiall Ferguson has two words for Paul Krugman: you‚Äôre wrong. (See video below.) The Harvard University history professor and author of ‚ÄúCivilization: The West and the Rest‚Äù says Krugman‚Äôs pro-government spending thesis not only fails to address the core problems facing the U.S. and Europe today but also has dire consequences for individuals living in these economies. ‚ÄúYou can‚Äôt borrow trillions of dollars a year for the rest of time,‚Äù Ferguson says in an interview with The Daily Ticker at the Milken Institute Global Conference 2013. ‚ÄúOnce a government gets to a very very high level of debt, the risk is very small increases in borrowing costs which create a vast ocean of red ink. So that risk is not negligible. Very large debts do not simply disappear by magic.‚Äù Ferguson argues that Carmen Reinhart‚Äôs and Ken Rogoff‚Äôs conclusions about the relationship between high debt and low growth are still true. The two Harvard economists had to defend their seminal book ‚ÄúThis Time is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly‚Äù after three University of Massachusetts academics ‚Äúcorrectly identified a spreadsheet coding error that led us to miscalculate the growth rates of highly indebted countries since World War II,‚Äù according to Reinhart and Rogoff. (Lawmakers across the world cited their work as justification to institute austerity policies; they argued that economic growth slowed after a country's public debt equaled 90 percent of its GDP). ‚ÄúThe headlines have done a disservice to Ken Rogoff and Carmen Reinhart,‚Äù Ferguson notes. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs extremely implausible that governments with already high debt can improve their situation by making their debt even larger. High debt scenarios often end with inflation or default. They don‚Äôt end with a rapid increase in the growth rate. A minor error in the Rogoff and Reinhart paper does not refute the case that governments with excessively large public debt have to bring them under control.‚Äù Moreover, Ferguson compares government accounting of public debt to one of the most famous ‚Äì and hated ‚Äì public companies that ever existed. ‚ÄúIf companies behaved like governments, they would essentially be Enron,‚Äù he says. ‚ÄúThere is a fundamental problem with government accounting.‚Äù Ferguson and Krugman have engaged in various public disputes over the role of government and President Obama‚Äôs economic policies. In his latest¬†New York Times op-ed, Krugman appears to take a victory lap against his pro-austerity rivals. He writes that ‚Äúthe drive for austerity has lost its intellectual fig leaf, and stands exposed as the expression of prejudice, opportunism and class interest it always was.‚Äù  SEE ALSO: The Economic Argument Is Over--Paul Krugman Has Won
AP ImagesThe annual pilgrimage to Omaha, Nebraska for the Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Meeting is happening this weekend.¬† If you've never heard of it, just know that it's a highly-anticipated and well-attended event hosted by famed billionaire investor Warren Buffett.¬† Several thousand shareholders fill a football stadium where Buffett and Charlie Munger answer their questions for several hours. Sounds boring? That's because you've never been to the after party. What follows the financials has been described as a huge old-style carnival/jamboree/county fair downstairs where they sell Dairy Queen Dilly Bars, books, Justin Boots. You name it, they're hawking it. This is where Buffett shines. He's a total showman, and you WILL seen things you've never seen before. Like Buffett singing with the Fruit of the Loom mascots, or riding a fake bull...
CNBCToday's March construction spending report was a big disappointment, unexpectedly falling 1.7% from February to $856 billion. Economists were looking for a 0.6% gain. However, not all economists see it as a total disaster. "The construction spending data are not that bad," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna in a tweet.† "They point to $4 billion more Q1 output than BEA first assumed." Last week, we learned that real GDP grew at a 2.5% rate in Q1, which was much lower than the 3.0% growth rate forecasted by economists. But that GDP report was just the first of three estimates.† Perhaps we'll see some upward revisions coming.
It's May Day. In America, to the extent anyone notices May Day, they notice the sunshine and spring weather. Elsewhere in the world, however, May Day is all about celebrating the cause (and grievances) of the world's employees. And because most people in the world are (or want to be) employees, May Day is something a lot of folks can relate to. And, boy, do the world's employees have something to be annoyed about this year! In case you don't immediately know what that is, here are three charts for you. They're based on America's economy, but it's the same story in a lot of countries around the world. 1) Corporate profit margins just hit another all-time high. Companies are making more per dollar of sales than they ever have before. If you're a shareholder, that seems like good news (in the very short term, anyway). Alas, most people aren't shareholders. And for folks whose investment horizon is longer than "this quarter" and "this year," it's actually bad news. Companies are under-investing in their employees and the future. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed 2) Wages as a percent of the economy just hit another all-time low.†One reason companies are making so much money is that they're paying employees less than they ever have as a share of GDP. That's bad news for everyone, by the way, not just employees. Low employee wages are one reason the economy is so weak: Those "wages" represent spending power for consumers. And consumer spending is "revenue" for other companies. So the short-term corporate profit obsession is actually starving the rest of the economy of revenue growth. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed 3) Fewer Americans are working than at any time in the past three decades.†The other reason corporations are so profitable is that they don't employ as many Americans as they used to. As a result, the employment-to-population ratio has collapsed. We're back at 1980s levels now. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed† In short, our current obsessed-with-profits philosophy is creating a country of a few million overlords (shareholders) and 300+ million serfs (employees). It is also resulting in employees sharing less of the corporate wealth that they spend their lives creating than they ever have before. That's not what has made America a great country. It's also not what most people think America or other lands of opportunity are supposed to be about. So we might want to rethink that. Specifically, we might want to have the goal of our corporations be to create long-term value for all of their constituencies (customers, employees, and shareholders), not just short-term profit for their shareholders. Meanwhile, if you want to know more about what's wrong with the economy, and why our current obsession with†short-term-profit†is hurting all of us, flip through these charts:
In January, Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas, ascended to the powerful chairmanship of the House Financial Services Committee. Six weeks later, campaign finance filings and interviews show, Hensarling was joined by representatives of the banking industry for a ski vacation fundraiser at a posh Park City, Utah, resort. The congressmanís political action committee held the fundraiser at the St. Regis Deer Valley, the ìRitz-Carlton of ski resortsî known†for its ìwhite-glove serviceî and for its restaurant by superstar chef Jean-Georges Vongerichten. Thereís no evidence the fundraiser broke any campaign finance rules. But a ski getaway with Hensarling, whose committee oversees both Wall Street and its regulators, is an invaluable opportunity for industry lobbyists. Among those attending the weekend getaway was an official from the American Securitization Forum, a Wall Street industry group, a spokesman confirmed. It gave $2,500 in February to Hensarlingís political action committee, the Jobs, Economy, and Budget (JEB) Fund. Len Wolfson, a lobbyist for the Mortgage Bankers Association, which gave the JEB Fund $5,000 that month, posted a picture†on Instagram from the weekend of the fundraiser of the funicular at the St. Regis. (It was labeled, ìPutting the #fun in #funicular. #stregis #deervalley #utah.î) Wolfson did not respond to requests for comment. (UPDATE 1 p.m. Wolfson has now set his account to private.) Visa, which gave the JEB Fund $5,000, also sent an official. A Visa spokesman told ProPublica that in attendance were not just finance companies, but also big retailers and others. Hensarling, a protÈgÈ of former Texas senator and famed deregulator Phil Gramm, has a mixed record regarding Wall Street. While he has been critical†of ìtoo big to failî banks and voted against the 2008 bailout, Hensarling recently said he opposed downsizing big banks, according to†Bloomberg. That stance matters now more than ever as a bipartisan duo in the Senate, David Vitter, R-La., and Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, introduced a bill last week†seeking to constrain the too-big-to-fail institutions. While the bill is considered a longshot, it has provoked intense opposition†from the industry. † Meanwhile, Hensarling recently barred†the head of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau from appearing before the House Financial Services Committee, citing a legal cloud over recess appointments made by President Obama. Whatever his stance on the industry, Hensarling has been more than happy to court Wall Streetís money. Donors working in various financial industries are Hensarlingís biggest supporters, giving him over $1 million†in the last election cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. The congressmanís office did not respond to requests for comment. Others donating to Hensarlingís JEB Fund around the time of the Utah ski weekend: Capital One; Credit Suisse; PricewaterhouseCoopers; MasterCard; UBS; US Bank; the National Association of Federal Credit Unions; Koch Industries, which is involved in†sundry financial trading; the National Pawnbrokers Association; and payday lenders Cash America International and CheckSmart Financial. All either declined to comment or did not respond to requests. † A spokeswoman for one large bank that donated $5,000, Alabama-based Regions Financial, told ProPublica the company doesnít discuss events employees attend for ìa number of reasons, including security.î Also donating $5,000 to Hensarlingís political committee around the time of the ski weekend was Steve Clark, a lobbyist†for†JP Morgan and the industry group the Financial Services Roundtable. (In 2011, a memo written by Clark and his partners for the American Bankers Association proposed an $850,000 public-relations strategy to undermine Occupy Wall Street. It leaked to MSNBC; the plan had apparently never been executed.) Clark didnít respond to requests for comment. The ski weekend was a large, apparently family-friendly affair. A Utah entertainment booker told ProPublica she had hired two caricature artists for a Feb. 23 event at the St. Regis for a group of 100, including 20 children. Hensarlingís JEB Fund, paid the bill. The fund also reported spending about $1,000 on ìgifts and mementosî at Deer Valley as well as charges at the upscale restaurant Talisker on Main. Campaigns and political action committees of a few other GOP congressmen also show charges totaling more than $50,000 at the St. Regis around that time: House Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions of Texas; House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp of Michigan; and National Republican Congressional Committee Chairman Greg Walden of Oregon. None responded to requests for comment. This is at least the second consecutive year that Hensarling has attended a fundraiser at Deer Valley. During the same February congressional recess last year, the National Republican Congressional Committee hosted†a ìPark City Ski Weekendî for Hensarling along with Sessions and Walden. Hensarlingís JEB Fund also reported†about $60,000 paid to the St. Regis Deer Valley in the last election cycle. (The NRCC said it did not sponsor this yearís event.) The Texan congressman has long had a taste for mixing skiing and politics. On the same February weekend in 2009, for example, Hensarlingís political action committee invited†donors ìto the second annual ëJEB Fund Takes Jacksoníî ski weekend for a minimum contribution of $2,500. The setting was the Snake River Lodge and Spa†in Jackson, Wyoming, which boasted ìwintertime activities fun for the entire familyî including dog sledding tours and sleigh rides, according to the invitation.

APWe're at the start of a furious three-day sprint of data. All around the world we're getting jobs reports, manufacturing reports, and central bank activity. So how's it going so far? Pretty bad. Last night for example we got an ugly Korean export report. Korean exports are considered a key barometer of global trade, so that's bad news. Chinese PMI also came in below expectations, adding to the Asian economic woes. Also, Australian manufacturing hit its lowest levels since the recession. Europe is mostly closed today (May Day) but there was ugly data in the UK and Ireland. Ireland, which is a "bright spot" saw its PMI drop big, and miss expectations. UK PMI also ame in sub-50. Finally in the US, the data has been bad to meh. The ADP jobs report was a big whiff. Construction spending registered a big fall. The only good news is that ISM modestly beat expectations, but even this is kind of not fair, since expectations have come dramatically down in the last few days. So basically a whole bunch of ugly numbers. And it's doubtful that tomorrow's PMI reports from Europe could possibly be any better.
Oil is extending its losses after a new Department of Energy report released at 10:30 AM ET revealed that crude oil inventories now total 395.3 million barrels ‚Äì the highest level on record, dating back to 1982. According to the release, crude oil inventories rose 6.7 million this past week (versus estimates for a 1.1 million barrel increase). WTI crude oil futures are now down 3.1%, trading near $90.50 a barrel. The chart below shows today's trading session. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
One of the big economic stories in the world is the American manufacturing renaissance.¬† The theory is simple.¬† Falling domestic energy costs and rising overseas labor costs will encourage manufacturers to bring production back to the U.S. While the statements about labor and energy costs could bring back some of manufacturing at the margin, economists are warning us that it is unlikely to cause a wave of reshoring. The truth is energy and labor are relatively small components of manufacturing costs.¬† Morgan Stanley analysts point this out in a new report: Let‚Äôs put the importance of labor costs in its proper perspective. It may be surprising to note that labor accounts for a relatively small 16% of total manufacturing costs in the US. This moves as high as 30% for certain sectors such as electronics and apparel, to as low as 6-7% for sectors such as Motor Vehicles, where capital costs are so much more significant. Raw materials and components are clearly the biggest drivers of input costs....This US natural gas ‚Äúdividend‚Äù clearly has broad implications for the manufacturing industries to the extent that natural gas and energy costs are a significant component of cost. This is certainly the case for sectors such as Chemicals, Paper and Aluminum where total energy prices range from 5-9% of total material cost. However, we highlight that energy-intensive sectors only account for ~25% of total US industrial output¬†¬† ¬†For the bulk of sectors, energy is a relatively minor influence, accounting for just 2% of COGS and just 1-2% for sectors such as Electrical Equipment, Machinery, Electronics, Transportation Equipment and Autos. Here's a chart: Morgan Stanley
This weekend Omaha, Nebraska will be flooded with people for what is locally known as "Berkshire Weekend," when Warren Buffett hosts his Berkshire Hathaway shareholders at the company's headquarters. Since Buffett is "The Oracle of Omaha" this party is a blowout ó We're talking country fair, smorgasbord, extravaganza with a value investing twist. To attend, you must be a Berkshire shareholder (or a journalist). They come in droves, filling the massive CenturyLink Center Arena to hear Buffett's wisdom, suck on Dilly bars, play bridge, and eat steak. Business Insider reached out to some people who have attended the meeting in years past to get an idea of what it's like, and more importantly, to get a sense of who makes the pilgrimage out to this mid-western Mecca. A 2011 Shareholder Meeting attendee broke it down for us. He said there are three kinds of people that go to Warren Buffett's Americana extravaganza, we dug up a fourth. You can check out the list of activities here, but the event goes far beyond what's on this document. Attendees and locals often use the Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Meeting as an opportunity to throw events all over town ó book signings, cocktails parties etc. Jealous yet?
Daniel Goodman/Business InsiderThe March reading of U.S. construction spending is out, and it's a big disappointment. Spending fell 1.7% month-over-month. Economists were looking for 0.6% month-over-month gain. It's worth noting February's growth rate was revised up to 1.5% from an earlier reading of 1.2%. March was unseasonably cold, which may have hindered activity. From the Census Bureau's release: PRIVATE CONSTRUCTIONSpending on private construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $598.4 billion, 0.6 percent (¬±1.2%)* below the revised February estimate of $602.0 billion. Residential construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $294.9 billion in March, 0.4 percent (¬±1.3%)* above the revised February estimate of $293.8 billion. Nonresidential construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $303.5 billion in March, 1.5 percent (¬±1.2%) below the revised February estimate of $308.2 billion. PUBLIC CONSTRUCTIONIn March, the estimated seasonally adjusted annual rate of public construction spending was $258.3 billion, 4.1 percent (¬±2.5%) below the revised February estimate of $269.2 billion. Educational construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $62.8 billion, 2.9 percent (¬±5.9%)* below the revised February estimate of $64.7 billion. Highway construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $73.8 billion, 5.2 percent (¬±6.3%)* below the revised February estimate of $77.8 billion. Census
Junko Kimura/Getty ImagesUPDATE: ISM's April manufacturing report is out. The headline index fell to 50.7 from last month's 51.3 reading. However, market economists predicted a bigger drop to 50.5. The new orders sub-component of the index rose to 52.3 from 51.4 and the production sub-component rose to 53.5 from 52.2. The employment sub-component of the index, however, fell to 50.2 from last month's 54.2 reading. Below is a summary of the data from the release: (Tempe, Arizona) ‚Äî Economic activity in the¬†manufacturing sector¬†expanded in April for the fifth consecutive month, and the¬†overall economy¬†grew for the 47th consecutive month, say the nation's supply executives in the latest¬†Manufacturing ISM¬†Report On Business¬Æ. The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management‚Ñ¢ Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. "The PMI‚Ñ¢ registered 50.7 percent, a decrease of 0.6 percentage point from March's reading of 51.3 percent, indicating expansion in manufacturing for the fifth consecutive month, but at the lowest rate of the year. The New Orders Index increased in April by 0.9 percentage point to 52.3 percent, and the Production Index increased by 1.3 percentage points to 53.5 percent. The Employment Index registered 50.2 percent, a decrease of 4 percentage points compared to March's reading of 54.2 percent. The Prices Index registered 50 percent, decreasing 4.5 percentage points from March, indicating that overall raw materials prices remained unchanged from last month. Comments from the panel indicate a range of strong/steady growth, to flat/declining volumes, depending upon the particular industry." Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 14 are reporting growth in April in the following order: Furniture &amp; Related Products; Printing &amp; Related Support Activities; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &amp; Components; Apparel, Leather &amp; Allied Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Paper Products; Machinery; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Petroleum &amp; Coal Products; Plastics &amp; Rubber Products; Transportation Equipment; and Computer &amp; Electronic Products. The three industries reporting contraction in April are: Wood Products; Food, Beverage &amp; Tobacco Products; and Chemical Products. And a look at what survey respondents are saying: Finally, here is a full breakdown of the sub-components of the index: ISM Click here for the full release &gt; ¬†
Jeff DuncanA bill introduced by South Carolina Rep. Jeff Duncan would eliminate all functions of the Census bureau except the part about counting the population every 10 years. That means no more employment stats, GDP data, housing information ‚Äî it would all be gone. Not surprisingly,¬†HR 1638 was instantly slammed as inane at best. "Cool! Then we might not need congressmen, because just about all of them rely on Census Bureau data to justify their existence," The Census Project Blog's Terri Ann Lowenthal wrote. "Do they understand that these data that the Census Bureau collects are fundamental to everything else that's done?" HuffPo quoted Maurine Haver, founder Haver Analytics, as saying. "They think the country doesn't need to know how many people are unemployed, either?" Here's the list of cosponsors: Rep Chaffetz, Jason¬†‚Äî UtahRep Harris, Andy ‚Äî Maryland¬†Rep Jones, Walter B., Jr.¬†‚Äî North Carolina ¬†Rep Labrador, Raul R. ‚Äî IdahoRep Massie, Thomas¬†‚Äî Kentucky¬†Rep Pearce, Stevan¬†‚Äî New Mexico ¬†Rep Posey, Bill¬†‚Äî FloridaRep Ribble, Reid J.¬†‚Äî Wisconsin¬†Rep Southerland, Steve II¬†‚Äî Florida¬†Rep Stockman, Steve¬†‚Äî Texas According to HuffPo, Duncan's rep declined to comment. (Via Dan Primack)


WTI crude oil is getting hit pretty hard this morning. Right now, it's down about 2.8%, trading at $90.85 a barrel. Copper is getting hit too ñ it's down about 3.2%. Gold, meanwhile, is down 1.5%, trading at $1450 an ounce. In fact, the entire commodity complex is pretty heavy in the red today, with the exception of natural gas. Silver, platinum, palladium, corn, wheat, sugar, coffee, soybeans, gasoline, and heating oil are all coming under selling pressure. Overnight, we saw weaker-than-expected manufacturing data out of China and weaker-than-expected export data out of South Korea. Those releases, coupled with a worse-than-expected employment report from ADP this morning, seem to be weighing on commodities as concerns over global growth re-ignite. Next up is ISM Manufacturing at 10 AM, which could weigh further on commodities if it comes in weaker than the market expects. The chart below shows WTI crude oil futures today. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
Another key to wealth I‚Äôve written before that the key to being wealthy involves work, and in particular, work doing something you would do regardless of whether it pays or not. But giving money away is also a cause and effect of feeling wealthy. We know we have enough money when we begin to give it away to others.¬† The act of giving it away ‚Äì philanthropically ‚Äì signals to ourselves that we have a surplus.¬† When we give philanthropically, however small and however temporarily, our life feels abundant. We feel our own surplus most fully when our cup runneth over to fill someone else‚Äôs cup.¬† If our goal is wealth, then we have to think about philanthropy. Give of yourself, not just money Sometimes we give money as a defensive mechanism, a kind of polite ‚Äúgo away‚Äù signal.¬† The homeless man, smelling of last month‚Äôs produce, received a little bit of money out of your pocket this week.¬† But really your message was ‚ÄúPlease don‚Äôt come any nearer.‚Äù¬† I don‚Äôt think of this as philanthropy. Similarly, but on a larger scale, I often hear of people giving much larger sums to causes they do not particularly believe in.¬† But because they could not think of a polite way to say no to a friend, or they could not come up with a more effective way to fill a void in their life, they gave a significant amount of money.¬† This isn‚Äôt philanthropy either. Neither the homeless donation ‚Äì nor the larger check ‚Äì makes us feel wealthy in the way philanthropy can and should. Philanthropy starts with the heart and may not involve the exchange of money for a long time. If you are relatively young, or relatively light in the wallet, you can still start your philanthropic life.¬† Giving of your time and your expertise to a non-profit cause provides all of the benefits of giving money.¬† You will capture the essence of philanthropy ‚Äì that feeling of abundance, that feeling of working without expectation of compensation ‚Äì long before you‚Äôre writing big checks to your favorite organization. Lead with love, money will follow The personal benefits of philanthropy ‚Äì in terms of feeling wealthy and feeling the abundance of life ‚Äì follow from the attitude and actions of you, the donor, rather than from your fortune. Do you love the cause you support?¬† Do you love the people in the organization?¬† Are you offering something unique that you can give the organization? Personally, I‚Äôm not a ladle-the-soup kind of guy.¬† I have never felt my unique contribution to an organization would be serving food at the soup kitchen. I know my way around a spreadsheet, however, so I have been fortunate enough to offer a set of financial eyes to my favorite non-profit, my high school for students from around the world.[1] I love and believe in the school as one of the best hopes for a better world.¬† I have built and sustained deep relationships with people there, both when I attended as a student and now as an adult advisor.¬† It represents for me a source of love as well as a way to access my more generous self. In my Wall Street and investing days, the fact that I gave time and money to my school helped me feel part of something larger and better.¬† My financial day job ‚Äì first as a bond salesman and later a distressed debt investor ‚Äì did not fill this need. ¬†Despite the spiritual impoverishment of my Wall Street career, giving time, money, and love to my school made me wealthy. ¬† Please also see next post: On Philanthropy Part II ‚Äì Asking for money for your favorite cause [1] The best high school in the country, by the way, and I‚Äôm serious about that.¬† It‚Äôs called the Armand Hammer United World College ‚Äì USA. ¬†I know you‚Äôve never heard of it, and that kills me because it‚Äôs the Best. School. Ever.¬† And you know what?¬† You‚Äôre in luck.¬† We‚Äôre wrapping up the Annual Fund drive this month.¬† Feeling wealthy is just a click away for you! Post read (79) times. Thanks for visiting Bankers Anonymous. Be sure to sign-up for my newsletter so you never miss what's happening on my site. You can also connect with me on Facebook and Twitter to keep the conversation going. Tags: giving money away, philanthropy, uwc-usa, what is wealthy
Tesla MotorsMarkit's April U.S. manufacturing PMI survey results are out. The headline index came in at 52.1, slightly above the flash estimate of 52.0 published earlier this month, but down from March's 54.6 reading. Any reading above 50 on the index signals expansion, so the 52.1 reading in today's release suggests that American manufacturing is still expanding, but at a markedly slower pace than in March. The new orders sub-component of the index fell to 51.5 from March's 55.4 reading. The output sub-component fell to 53.7 from 56.6, and the employment sub-component fell to 53.2 from 54.6. Below is a complete breakdown of the sub-components from the release: Markit Click here for the full release &gt; Earlier this morning, we got a weaker than expected employment report from ADP. The firm estimates that only 119,000 new private payrolls were created in April, below the 150,000 predicted by market economists. Last month's ADP results were revised down to 131,000 from 158,000. Next up are ISM Manufacturing (predicted to fall to 50.5 from 51.3) and March construction spending growth (predicted to slow to 0.6% from 1.2%), both releases due out at 10 AM ET. Follow the data LIVE on Business Insider &gt;
APThe Berkshire Hathaway Annual Meeting is happening his weekend. It's a famous event in Omaha where Warren Buffett (and his partner Charlie Munger) answer a bunch of questions from shareholders, who are also there to shop, eat, and party. Value investor Whitney Tilson, who runs Kase Capital, has only missed one of Warren Buffett's highly-anticipated annual meetings in the last fifteen years. † Tilson told us the main reason he goes to Omaha, Nebraska year after year is to learn.† "Even though I have been to so many of these, I find that while many of the questions have been asked over the years, the answers sometimes change and hearing a repetition of things I've already heard is good to reinforce a lot of the principles of sound investing," he told Business Insider in a telephone interview, adding, "There are always new questions and new topics that get addressed." We asked Tilson why the meeting is a must-attend for value investors. "If I were really interested in being a great hitter in baseball and Ted Williams, the last guy to hit 400, were to once a year host a weekend long baseball clinic, would I go? Absolutely," he said.† He said that even if he only learns one or two important new things it's still well worth the trip. Another reason to attend the annual meeting is it's fun, Tilson added. "It's a huge amount of fun. The value investing community from all around the world converges on Omaha and it's by in large it's a group of great people. I catch up with old friends and I make new friends." Tilson† also hosts a number of events there that I open to the public ó a cocktail party Friday night, a cocktail party after the meeting on Saturday and investor breakfast on Sunday. Anyone who wants to come and meet other value investors is welcome to his events, he said.†
If there is an American manufacturing renaissance, it certainly appears to have stalled in April. From the just-released ADP report, a chart which shows that manufacturing actually lost jobs in the month! ADP And then also, if you aggregate the various regional manufacturing surveys (from the regional Fed banks) then this was one of the worst months in years. Meanwhile, ISM Manufacturing comes out at 10 AM. Real-time PMI composite - 3rd lowest reading since 2009. twitter.com/cullenroche/st‚Ä¶
Library of Congress The number is out and it's weak. Analysts were looking for 150K new private sector jobs. Instead the number just came in at just 119K. Remember, ADP just captures the private sector side of Non-Farm payrolls, so it's not a perfect analogue for the official jobs report, which will come out on Friday. That being said, over time the number is consistent with official numbers, and this number in particular is consistent with a lot of the weak data. This chart from the report is particularly interesting. According to ADP, manufacturing actually lost jobs! ADP The full report is here.
Bill Gross's latest monthly letter is out, and the title is There Will Be Haircuts. Haircuts, of course, are a popular topic of discussion ever since Cyprus clipped the savings of large depositors in order to recap the banks. In his latest letter, Bill Gross points argues that there's no way that governments will ever be able to reduce total debt to GDP unless they find creative ways to clip bondholders. He comes up with four main ways. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (1) Negative Real Interest Rates ‚Äì ‚ÄúTrimming the Bangs‚Äù During and after World War II most countries with high debt overloads resorted to artificially capping interest rates below the rate of inflation. They forced savers to accept negative real interest rates which lowered the cost of government debt but prevented savers from keeping up with the cost of living. Long Treasuries, for instance, were capped at 2¬Ω% while inflation was soaring towards double-digits. The resulting negative real rates together with an accelerating economy allowed the U.S. economy to lower its Depression-era debt/GDP from 250% to a number almost half as much years later, but at a cost of capital market distortions. PIMCO Today, central banks are doing the same thing with near zero-bound yields and effective caps on higher rates via quantitative easing. The Treasury‚Äôs average cost of money is steadily grinding lower than 2%. If current policies continue to be enforced in future years it will eventually be less than 1% because of the inclusion of T-bill and short maturity financing. The government‚Äôs gain, however, is the saver‚Äôs loss. Investors are being haircutted by at least 200 basis points judged by historical standards, which in the past offered no QE and priced Fed Funds close to the level of inflation. Large holders of U.S. government bonds, including China and Japan, will be repaid, but in the interim they will be implicitly defaulted on or haircutted via negative real interest rates. Are Treasuries money good? Yes. But are they good money? Most assuredly not, when current and future haircuts are considered. These rather innocuous seeming (-1%) and(-2%) real rate haircuts are not a bob or a mullet in hairstyle parlance. More like a ‚Äútrimming of the bangs.‚Äù But at the cut‚Äôs conclusion, there‚Äôs a lot of hair left on the floor. (2) Inflation / Currency Devaluation ‚Äì ‚Äúthe ‚ÄúDon Draper‚Äù Inflation‚Äôs sort of like your everyday ‚ÄúMad Men ‚Äì Don Draper‚Äù type of haircut. It‚Äôs been around for a long time and we don‚Äôt really give it a second thought except when it‚Äôs on top of a handsome head like Jon Hamm‚Äôs. 2% ¬± a year ‚Äì some say more ‚Äì but what the heck, inflation‚Äôs just like breathing air ‚Ä¶ you just gotta have it for a modern-day levered economy to survive. Sometimes, though, it gets out of control, and when it is unexpected, a decent size hit to your bond and stock portfolio is a possibility. If our TV idol Don Draper lives another decade or so on the airwaves, he‚Äôll find out in the inflationary 70s. Such was the example as well in the Weimar Republic in the 1920s and in modern day Zimbabwe with its One Hundred Trillion Dollar bill shown below. As central banks surreptitiously inflate, they also devalue their currency and purchasing power relative to other ‚Äúhard money‚Äù countries. Either way ‚Äì historical bouts of inflation or currency devaluation suggest that your investment portfolio may not be ‚Äúgood as the money‚Äù you might be banking on. PIMCO (3) Capital Controls ‚Äì the ‚ÄúUncle Sam Cut‚Äù Uncle Sam with his rather dapper white hair and trimmed beard serves as a good example for this type of haircut, if only to show that even the U.S. can latch on to your money or capital. Back in the 1930s, FDR instituted a rather blatant form of expropriation shown above. All private ownership of gold was forbidden (and subject to a $10,000 fine and 10 years in prison!) if it wasn‚Äôt turned into the government. Today we have less obvious but similar forms of capital controls ‚Äì currency pegging (China and many others), taxes on incoming capital (Brazil) and outright taxation/embargos of bank deposits (Cyprus). Governments use these methods to keep money out or to keep money in, the net result of which is a haircut on your capital or your potential return on capital. Future haircuts might even include a wealth tax. Are gold and/or AA+ sovereign bonds good as money? Usually, but capital controls can clip you if you‚Äôre not careful. PIMCO (4) Outright Default ‚Äì the ‚ÄúDobbins‚Äù Ah, here‚Äôs my favorite haircut, and I‚Äôve named it the ‚ÄúDobbins‚Äù in honor of this 5-year bond issued in the 1920s with a beautiful gold seal and payable, in dollars or machine guns! Bond holders got neither and so it represents the historical example of the ultimate haircut ‚Äì the buzz, the shaved head, the ‚ÄúDobbins.‚Äù As suggested earlier, the objective of central banks is to prevent your portfolio from resembling a ‚ÄúDobbins.‚Äù I have tweeted in the past that the Fed is where all bad bonds go to die. That is half figurative and half literal, because central banks are typically limited from purchasing bonds payable in machine guns or subprime mortgages (there have been exceptions and Bloomberg reported that nearly 25% of global central banks are now buying stocks believe it or not)! But by purchasing Treasuries and Agency mortgages they have rather successfully incented the private sector to do their bidding. This behavior reflects the admission that modern-day developed economies are asset-priced supported. Unless prices can continuously be floated upward, defaults and debt deflation may emerge. Don‚Äôt buy a Dobbins bond or a Dobbins-like asset or a bond from a country whose central bank is buying stocks. They probably aren‚Äôt ‚Äúgood as money!‚Äù PIMCO
Wikimedia CommonsNassim Taleb has been on the rampage lately, clashing with economists and other finance types on Twitter, accusing them of hypocrisy and making the world a more fragile place. But here's an interaction with the famous author that's actually pretty interesting and edifying. Musician Brian Eno, a member of the glam rock band Roxy Music, has written an open letter to Nassim Taleb that raises some interesting questions about concepts like safety, fragility, and robustness, which are all popular Taleb topics. Eno's thoughts key off the 2011 nuclear tragedy at Fukushima. As he frames it, there's been an incredible geographical expansion of human caring. People in the U.S. now worry, for example, about the fate of people in Tsunami-ravaged Japan. And yet at the same time as we've gotten more big picture in our geographical thinking, we've gotten more short-term in our thinking (Eno advocates nuclear power, and thinks it will be a big long-term environmental mistake to stop investing in nuclear). He writes: Indeed our geographical 'circle of empathy' grows decade on decade: a hundred years ago it would have been impossible to imagine millions of people raising hundreds of millions of pounds for tsunami victims on the other side of the world - people they didn't know and would almost certainly never meet. In terms of geography, we inhabit a much bigger picture than we used to, and we sense our interconnectedness within it.† In terms of time, however, the picture seems to be narrowing. Public attention is increasingly focused on very near futures: businesses live in terror of the bottom line and the quarterly results, while politicians quake at tomorrow's opinion polls and formulate policy in terms of them. We've heard tales of farmers planting olive trees or vineyards for their grandchildren to harvest, or of foresters cultivating groves of oaks to replace a chapel roof hundreds of years in the future, but by and large, we don't do that anymore. We have less active engagement with our future than our ancestors did. ... To illustrate this, think about nuclear power. Start with FUKUSHIMA, that dread word. As a result of over-excited media reporting ('great story!' I heard one journalist say) that single word has probably condemned nuclear power for another generation, when in fact the accident produced no radiation-related deaths (and it's doubtful that it will produce a discernable statistical blip in cancers in the future). In a conspiracy which seems almost dishonest, most Green groups failed to acknowledge this - it was too good as propaganda for them to let the facts get in the way - and of course the press never returned to the subject with any correctional follow-up. It became one of those little nuggets of received, and totally incorrect, wisdom: Nuclear=Fukushima=Catastrophe.† That received non-wisdom has persuaded Green Germany to begin decommissioning its nuclear reactors - which means more coal-fired plants. Japan too will probably turn back to coal. Coal is - even Greenpeace would agree - the worst option, though they'd claim that the gap can be filled by renewables. It can't, not now and probably not for decades. In the meantime - and it may be a long, mean time - we'll use coal. It's cheap and very, very dirty.† So the real catastrophe of Fukushima is in the future, waiting for us in the form of vastly increased atmospheric CO2. Eno then concludes: The nuclear issue - which I've used as an example in this letter - is only one of many I could have chosen. The fact is, we're facing a lot of complex and interrelated problems which demand that we take positions now. To some extent, that position is going to have to be 'let's improvise' because there's a distinct limit to how well we can make predictions. The de facto nuclear storage arrangements currently in use in America are examples of 'let's improvise' and in this case seem to be a not-too-bad arrangement. But 'let's improvise' has its limitations: in fact it's sort of what got us where we are now, in a place that's both wondrous and problematic. We might need some other intellectual weapons in our arsenals, no matter how good we become at jamming. Read the full letter here ---&gt;
Clashes erupted in Istanbul after¬†thousands of police were stationed to block access to¬†Taksim Square in the center of Turkey's largest city, Reuters reports. The barricades were set up to prevent¬†a march organized by¬†trade unions, but protestors began pushing into the square¬†and authorities responded with tear gas and water cannons.¬†Here's the Hurriyet Daily News report. Istanbul is on a citywide shut down as traffic has been restricted and public transportation to the square has been suspended. Reuters notes that¬†May 1, a traditional workers' day holiday across Europe,¬†was canceled as a national holiday in Turkey following a 1980 coup but reinstated in 2010 under pressure from trade unions. REUTERS/Murad Sezer REUTERS/Murad Sezer REUTERS/Murad Sezer  May Day conflict with police in Istanbul. / Pepper gas #Now #Istanbul #Turkey #MayDay #photojournalism twitter.com/AgenceLeJourna‚Ä¶ #MayDay in #Istanbul #Turkey via @saryaderya twitter.com/yesimcf/status‚Ä¶ This is Istanbul on May Day! Journalists are trying to work under heavy pepper gas. via @ahmetakpolat twitter.com/aydinonat/stat‚Ä¶
ScreenshotOne of the best things that Bitcoin has going for it is that there are places online where it's used exclusively. The infamous site SilkRoad is a marketplace for drugs and other illegal wares, where Bitcoin is the currency of choice. Izabella Kaminska points to a report from Willard Foxton at The Telegraph, who says that the site is on the verge of collapse, under intentional outside threat, and also suffering from hyperdeflation. We've written on the hyperdeflation problem before. Basically, with Bitcoin prices surging, nobody wants to buy anything, you just wnat to hold onto your Bitcoins. Conversely, when they collapse, nobody wants to sell. So volatility means nobody wants to transact in Bitcoins, because there's a good chance that the next day someone will feel like a fool. Here's Foxton on the SilkRoad attacks, and the lack of transactions: Silk Road is now offering $5000 to anyone with any "information that leads to the arrest and conviction of whoever is behind this extortion attempt". Although phoning up the cops and saying "some guy is blackmailing my giant drug-dealing operation!" probably won't elicit much sympathy. Of course, it might also be the natural consequence of Silk Road users paying for goods using the encrypted digital currency Bitcoin. As an economy where Bitcoin was the main currency, Silk Road recently went through a hyper-deflation almost unprecedented in economics. Following the recent surges in the value of Bitcoin, people have been selling less and less, initially because the value of the Bitcoins was going up so fast people were unwilling to part with them; then, once the Bitcoin price started crashing, dealers were unwilling to part with valuable drugs for Bitcoins worth who-knows-what. The good news for Bitcoin is that prices have been a lot more stable lately. If that stability can last for awhile, at least people will feel more comfortable buying and selling goods in the currency, rather than just speculating on its rise and fall.
Later today, the US ISM Manufacturing report comes out. Analysts expect a reading of 50.6, down from 51.3. But estimates have been coming down fast in the face of weak regional data. Citi's Steven Englander blasts out a note: The median Bloomberg forecast is 50.6, the central tendency of distribution of forecasts is 50-51.4; Cit is at 50. Note however that the there is a fat tail of weak forecasts on the weak side extending down to 49. Citi The number will be out today at 10 AM ET.
APGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
We now have some data confirming that China's anti-corruption drive (discussed here) is indeed responsible for at least a part of the recent economic weakness. Catering sales for large enterprises suddenly plunged earlier this year. Cutbacks in extravagant welcoming parties for central government officials, which drove down catering sales, also created a dip in the overall retail sales. This anti-corruption directive has become more of a campaign against hedonism by public officials - and often less about the actual corruption. Jing Daily: - The current campaign is the latest iteration of a long-running effort to combat ‚Äúthe illnesses ‚Äì formalism, bureaucracy and hedonism‚Äù in the ranks of elite Communist Party leadership. Thus, the crackdown is not merely a utilitarian attack on China‚Äôs troublesome scourge of corruption itself, but also clearly focuses on the aesthetics of impropriety within the ranks of provincial officials. Clearly, these are positive developments for China, but it's not known just how effective the anti-corruption efforts really are at this stage. With a weak court system that is often no more than a puppet of the Communist Party, it seems that officials continue to enrich themselves at public's expense. Only now they are being asked not to flaunt their wealth (which some wealthy people have been doing - see example). In fact activists who are pushing for disclosure of public officials' finances are being muzzled. VOA: - Chinese authorities have detained eight anti-corruption activists over their participation in a signature drive that calls on central government officials to disclose their assets. Although there is widespread public support for officials to disclose such information, government efforts to promote the policy appear to be slowing.  Rights lawyers in Beijing say the activists have been taken into custody in recent days on suspicion of unlawful assembly. As far as the impact on China's overall economy, most expect the effect of these measures to be short-lived. Given the somewhat superficial nature of the program, it's only a matter of time before China's wealthy officials begin spending again. Goldman
It's May 1, which is May Day, which for much of the non-American world, is a big holiday for workers. Pretty much all of Continental Europe has off for it. May Day sees pro-labor demonstrations and protests all around the world. Here are a few examples. (All descriptions are from Reuters.) May 1, 2013 Supporters of the Iraqi Communist Party carry a banner and an Iraqi flag during a rally marking Labour Day at al-Firdous Square in Baghdad REUTERS/Mohammed Ameen  Protesters wearing safety helmets carry a dummy body, which symbolizes a person killed in an industrial accident, during a march calling for the legislative restrictions on standard working hours, on Labour Day in Hong Kong May 1, 2013. The banner reads, "Against the import of foreign workers".  REUTERS/Tyrone Siu  Workers from the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions (KCTU) take part in a May Day rally at Seoul City Hall Plaza in central Seoul May 1, 2013. Thousands of workers who took part in the rally asked for an extensive revision of the labour law and demanded that the government provide temporary workers employment stability by converting their status to full-time workers.   REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji A garment worker attends a march on the streets to mark International Labor Day in Phnom Penh REUTERS/Samrang Pring Workers from the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions (KCTU) perform during a May Day rally at Seoul City Hall Plaza in central Seoul May 1, 2013. Thousands of workers who took part in the rally asked for an extensive revision of the labour law and demanded that the government provide temporary workers employment stability by converting their status to full-time workers. REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji A supporter of the ruling Sandinista party holds up a Cuban national flag with the image of revolutionary leader Ernesto "Che" Guevara during early May Day celebrations in Managua April 30, 2013. The International Workers' Day, also known as May Day, falls annually on May 1. REUTERS/Oswaldo Rivas
ECBThe ECB has its monthly meeting tomorrow, and there's a pretty big consensus growing that it's going to do some kind of rate cut. Inflation has fallen to 1.2%, and unemployment is up to 12.1%. This situation demands a policy response. Even the famously tight ECB is likely to see the merits of easing in this situation. In a note put out yesterday, Lorcan Roche Kelly of Trend Macrolytics has a slightly contrarian take on what the ECB should do tomorrow. First of all, he does think there will be a rate cut, whereas previously he was skeptical. BUT, he argues that a rate cut isn't the right tool for the job, and won't accomplish anything because of how broken everything is. Instead, the ECB needs to open up new channels to extend credit to Small and Medium Sized Enterprises, especially in the periphery where traditional monetary policy channels are impaired. For a broad example of what the ECB could do that would actually be effective, he writes: It may be that these moves are enough to prompt action from the ECB -- such as increasing collateral eligibility of SME credits, or so-called "structural operations" through the national central banks. If they were, then that would certainly be much more positive for the euro area than a rate cut. Bottom line: As usual with the ECB, this Thursday the rate announcement is made 45 minutes before the press conference starts. An announcement of a rate cut is a likely signal that the ECB is going to do nothing more. Conversely, no rate cut announcement should not necessarily be viewed as a time to sell. The data -- especially the inflation data -- demands a reaction from the ECB. If it -- correctly -- chooses not to use the interest rate tool, then anything else it chooses will have more of the "big bang" properties that can give the ongoing rally new legs. On the other hand, if the ECB does nothing at all, we will have the seen the top in the peripheral debt rally, at least until the ECB finally responds.
As much I criticize the Fed for its shortcomings, it pales in comparison to the failures of the ECB. Under its watch, aggregate nominal income and broad money growth has faltered in the Eurozone. This, in turn, has created an economic crisis. Note that causality runs from a weakened economy allowed by the ECB to a debt and financial crisis in the Eurozone, not the other way around. This is a point Ramesh Ponnuru and I have stressed before: [Observers] tend to think of Europe‚Äôs current crisis as the result of overspending welfare states. And these states would indeed be better off with lower spending levels and less regulated labor markets. But many of the nations swept up in the euro-zone crisis, such as Spain and France, had spending and tax revenues well aligned before it hit. The true problem has again been monetary. Europe has for a decade had a monetary policy well suited to the circumstances of Germany but not to those of the rest of the euro zone and especially its periphery. Nominal income in Germany has stayed on a fairly steady trend line. In the periphery, however, it first went way up and then crashed. For the euro zone as a whole, nominal spending has fallen far below its previous trend‚Äîand has been continuing to fall farther away from it. Monetary policy therefore remains very tight in the euro zone overall. One effect of that drop-off, in Europe and in the U.S., has been to make debt burdens more onerous. The graph below underscores this point. It shows that below-trend growth in Eurozone NGDP--the NGDP gap--has been matched by a rise in Eurozone government debt. The Eurozone crisis, then, is a nominal GDP crisis, not a debt crisis: David Beckworth I bring this up because today we learn just how bad conditions are becoming in the Eurozone: unemployment hit 12.1% in March, 2013! Michael Darda of MKM Partners observes that this is the highest unemployment rate in the Eurozone over the past few decades. And on a country-by-country basis the unemployment numbers are even more harrowing, as shown by Ryan Avent. What more will it take for the ECB to act more aggressively? Apparently, intense human suffering is not enough. Maybe the advent of Abenomics in Japan in conjunction with the Fed's ongoing QE3 program will spur the ECB into action out of fear of losing external competitiveness. How ironic it would be if Europe's periphery became the main beneficiary of Abenomics.
Gas prices for the final week of April were reported yesterday, showing yet another $0.02 decline. For the month, gas prices in April averaged almost 4% less than prices in March: As I've noted before, a reasonable estimate of how gas prices affect overall consumer prices is to take the change in gas prices, divide by 10, and add 0.1% or 0.2%. That will come close to the non-seasonally adjusted change in consumer prices. (If you want to be more conservative, you could divide by 12 or even 16, but that only changes the ultimate result by +0.1). Here's a graph showing that relationship for the last 9 years as a sample (blue is gas prices, red is CPI): FRED It certainly isn't a perfect relationship, but it is usually quite close.  Applying that to April 2013, we get -0.4% + 0.1% or +0.2%, for an estimate of -0.2% or -0.3% non-seasonally adjusted CPI. Since the seasonal adjustment for April will be about -0.3%, the seasonally adjusted inflation rate for April is likely to be close to -0.5%.  If that happens, it will make for one of the most deflationary readings in 50 years, outside of the drastic late 2008 deflation during the great recession (only one month in 1986 and several in 2006 are equal): FRED Further, YoY inflation will be about +1.0%, also matching the lowest inflation rate in 50 years outside of the great recession (only 1963, 2002, and 2006 saw YoY inflation of only 1.0%: FRED Barring a bad accident in Friday's employment report, this will also produce the best YoY advance in real wages in over 2 years.  The surprise easing of the oil choke collar is one of the biggest economic stories so far this year.
What can you say about a market where one of the biggest permabears of the last 5 years is now feeling sorry for the bears? ¬†I‚Äôve tracked Russell‚Äôs work very closely over the years and I have to start wondering about the contrarian side of the cyclical view when I start reading commentary like this (via Russell‚Äôs Dow Theory Letters): ‚ÄúI can‚Äôt believe I‚Äôm saying this, but I really feel sorry for the bears. First, they rubbed their hands together in glee as they waited for the roof to cave in via the fiscal cliff. Nothing happened. Then they got excited over the sequestration menace, and again nothing happened. Cyprus came and went, so what‚Äôs left? Oh yes, the debt ceiling ‚Äî which, if it isn‚Äôt lifted, should collapse the economy. And it does seem we are in a currency war. Japan‚Äôs new central bank president startled the world by doubling its QE quotient. Japan, copying the Bernanke recipe, will buy everything in sight until Japan experiences 2 percent inflation. How can I explain the weird disconnect between the stock market and reality? I fall back on the old Wall Street aphorism ‚Äî ‚ÄúThe market always does what it‚Äôs supposed to do ‚Äî but never when.‚Äù I feel most sorry for the impatient bears. Waiting on the market to do what you think it should do can try one‚Äôs patience and nerves. It looks as though the stock market will continue to head north until we receive indications that something is wrong. So far, nothing in the price structure has told us to be cautious. My guess is that this stock market will, when it is ready, produce some kind of ‚Äúwarning pattern,‚Äù such as a formation (H&amp;S pattern) or a distinct non-confirmation in the Averages. Until then, my suggestion is to stay with your position in the DIAs.‚Äù
Wikimedia CommonsMost of Europe is closed for May Day today, so things are really quiet. But it's going to be a huge day, as tons of economic data is coming out. In the US there's the ADP jobs report, Construction Spending, ISM Manufacturing, Car Sales, and a Fed decision. We'll be bring that all to you LIVE. Normally, since it's the first of the month, we'd have European ISM numbers. But again, due to the holiday, nothing's happening and they're delayed until tomorrow. US futures are up a hair.
