Nassim Nicholas Taleb, author of Black Swan and Antifragile, is a pretty intense person. He's vocal about his displeasure with most economists, academics and journalists. He's usually wearing black. And he's usually seen not smiling. So, we couldn't help but take notice of his Facebook status update on how "to have a great day." The first four ways are wonderful. The fifth seems much more Taleb-esque. To have a great day: 1) Smile at a stranger, 2) Surprise someone by saying something unexpectedly nice, 3) Give some genuine attention to an elderly, 4) Invite someone who doesn't have many friends for coffee, 5) Humiliate an economist, publicly, or create deep anxiety inside a Harvard professor. Facebook / Nassim Taleb
Earlier, we wrote about a mysterious web site that tells you when you are going to die. You plug in your birth date, country of birth, and sex, and the site whips through some actuarial tables and gives you the bottom line. I was born on February 6th, 1966, in the U.S., and I'm male. So that means... pbump.net I'm supposed to die on December 8th, 2044. That's a Thursday. I was actually pleasantly surprised by the 2044. That seems comfortingly far away. If I make it that far, I'll be thrilled. I feel thrilled (and lucky) to have made it this far already. (A friend of mine in high school, Robby Steele, died at ~16 from complications from getting kicked in the spleen. I think of him sometimes. And I think of how much life I've lived in the 31 years since I was 16. I'm grateful for every one of those years. And I'm grateful for all of the people I've been able to share them with. And I'm sorry for Robby and everyone else for everything they've missed.) The part of the site's output that triggered more philosophical feelings than learning the likeliest date of my death, though, were the numbers below the date. pbump.net According to the site, I have lived 17,362 days. And I only have 11,433 days left. That means I have lived 60.71% of my life. Well, I've lived a long time, and I've experienced a lot, so the fact that I still have 39.29% of my actuarial life left to go isn't bad. Again, if I make it that far, I'll be thrilled. On the other hand... The 39.29% of the actuarial life that I have left is considerably less than the 60.71% that I've already lived. That's a blunt reminder that my time is limited. And I'm running through it fast. So, I'd better get cranking! If I really have 11,433 days left, wonderful, I'll do as much as I can with them. And if I don't, well, I'll try to keep living in a way that makes me grateful for every day that I get. When are you going to die? How much of your life do you have left?†Visit the site and run the numbers here. If nothing else, it will make you think...
A man in Qingdao, dubbed China's most livable city, took to throwing homemade bombs to defend his home when construction workers stopped by to demolish it, according to the Shanghaiist. The man identified only by his last name Wang, began to throw the homemade bombs from his balcony, until a friend persuaded him to stop. The man's house is apparently being demolished to make way for an overpass that is tied to the 2014 World Horticultural Expo.¬† Forced evictions are a huge problem in China. A 2012 report by Amnesty International found that there has been a rise in "violent forced evictions," and that local governments saddled with debt seize land and sell it to property dealers to offset their debt. Last year wrote about farmer Luo Baogen's 'nail house' after the government built a highway around his home. Luo refused to move out arguing that the government compensation wasn't adequate. The house was eventually torn down. Watch the video here: 

REUTERS/Miguel AdornoPolaris, an Argentine oil tanker, burns after colliding with another ship on the Paraguay River near the port of Villeta August 12, 2011. All 17 crew members from both ships were rescued, according to local media.Chaos in Egypt has some watchers worried that we could eventually see trouble in the Suez Canal, a vital channel for trade and one of the most important oil chokepoints in the world. "About half of the world's total oil production of nearly 90 million barrels per day is transported over water," write US Funds analysts. At some point, almost all of this seaborne oil passes through one of seven chokepoints, or a narrow body of water. At these chokepoints, oil tankers face various risks ranging from heavy traffic to piracy.¬† Any disruption could lead to volatility in oil prices. US Funds recently took a close look at these seven chokepoints.¬† We highlight some of their findings here.
Legendary UPenn-Wharton finance professor Jeremy Siegel has a problem with a valuation ratio developed by legendary Yale economist Robert Shiller. In a new piece for The Financial Times, Siegel goes after Shiller's cyclically-adjusted price-earnings ratio (CAPE). CAPE is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.† If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 16, the stock market is considered expensive. Siegel first gives credit to the CAPE for being able to predict long-term stock market returns in the 1980s through the 2000s. But he's suspicious that the more recent CAPE reading may be biased by distorted low earnings numbers that are making the stock market look expensive. From the FT: I believe the Cape ratioís overly pessimistic predictions are based on biased earnings data. Changes in the accounting standards in the 1990s forced companies to charge large write-offs when assets they hold fall in price, but when assets rise in price they do not boost earnings unless the asset is sold. This change in earnings patterns is evident when comparing the cyclical behaviour of Standard and Poorís earnings series with the after-tax profit series published in the National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA). For the 2001-02 and 2007-09 recessions, S&amp;P reported earnings dropped precipitously due to a few companies with huge write-offs, while NIPA earnings were more stable. Yet before 2000, the cyclical behaviour of the two series was similar. Downward biased S&amp;P earnings send average 10-year earnings down and bias the Cape ratio upward. In fact, when NIPA profits are substituted for S&amp;P reported earnings in the Cape model, the current market shows no overvaluation. This is likely to generate a response from Shiller sooner or later. Shiller made a name for himself by sharing the CAPE with the world in the first edition of his classic book Irrational Exuberance, which predicted the dotcom bubble and solidified the Yale economist as one of the smartest people in finance of all-time. Siegel believes stocks remain attractive at current levels. He recently told CNBC that the Dow could hit 17,000 this year. Read his entire piece at FT.com.
Itís easy to identify the date that things changed: May 22, the day that the Federal Reserve first alerted markets that it might soon start ìtaperingî the $85 billion in monthly asset purchases it has been making since December to juice the economy. And soon looks to be getting even sooner. A steady improvement in U.S. employment figuresóunemployment fell from 7.6 percent in June to 7.4 percent in Julyóhas brought into focus the 6.5 percent unemployment target the Fed set as a prerequisite for raising short-term interest rates. On Thursday, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics released yet another piece of good news on the employment front: New applications for unemployment benefits sank to their lowest levels in six years in July. Thatís great news for Americans who happen to be landing new jobs, but not as pleasant for bond investors worried about rising rates. The employment data, as well as news that inflation rose significantly in July (another potential trigger for the Fed to tighten monetary policy) led investors to dump U.S. Treasuries Thursday, pushing yields to a two-year high. The yield on a 10-year Treasury bond has topped 2.8 percent, about 60 percent higher than at the beginning of the year. Now that yields have started climbing, investors should expect that improving economic momentum will keep them moving higher ñ and that will have serious implications for investors in the worldís three largest economies: European Union, Japan and the United States. ìIn our view, the potential end of near-zero interest rates is exactly the type of event that can trigger enormous changes in asset prices and capital flows within and across economies,î Credit Suisseís fixed income strategy team explained in a note this week called îZero Isnít Forever.î ìThis can create a huge financial disruption akin to the end of a war.î This particular ìwarî is ending later than it should have, the team wrote, arguing that long-term interest rates have remained low far longer than the data warranted. Rates in the G3 started falling in mid-2011, when the European crisis was at its worst. But industrial production momentum, a key indicator of global economic activity, started looking more solid as early as last November. Add to that the steady recovery in the U.S. labor market and the receding threat of a breakup of the euro zone since European Central Bank President Mario Draghiís July 2012 pledge to take any measures necessary to hold the monetary union together, and one would have thought rates would have been climbing some six months before the Fed caused such pandemonium in May. So why didnít they? Because the major central banks continued easing in the face of that good news, thatís why. And why would they do that? Because they were more focused on falling inflation, despite the fact that inflation is a lagging indicator. (If itís not one thing, itís another.) The recent jump in long-term rates, then, is simply an overdue correction. ìWe think long-term interest rates were significantly mispriced even before tapering talk began,î the strategists wrote. The uptick in industrial production momentum around the world, which tends to track quite closely with long-term bond yields, is still going strong, and the analysts expect it to continue putting upward pressure on rates. Global industrial production momentum went from -1 percent in November to 4.1 percent in May, and the strategists expect it to hit 7 percent by the end of this year, as both Europeís painful recession and Chinaís significant slowdown appear to be flattening out. The good news: rising rates may not necessarily prove to be the economic headwind some investors fear. For one thing, short-term rates are still low in the developed world and are expected to stay that way for some time. The Federal Reserve isnít expected to raise the federal funds rate until mid-2015. While consumer and business confidence has been so downtrodden since the financial crisis that ultra-low rates havenít done as much to encourage borrowing as they might have, the Credit Suisse strategists think thatís also about to change. ìWhen confidence improves while real interest rates are unchanged, conditions ease,î they wrote. ìTightening of financial conditions could easily be overpowered by a reawakening of dormant animal spirits becauseÖpolicy effectiveness is increasing as confidence returns.î In other words, the more that people feel better about where the economy is going, the more that monetary easing will have the effect that itís supposed to have. That doesnít mean nobody will feel any pain. In still-struggling economies, including peripheral European countries such as Spain and Greece, rising rates could easily put an end to fragile recoveries that have been showing up lately in the form of improving manufacturing activity and confidence. Credit Suisse strategists believe that central banks in such places might just implement more stimulus to counter the headwind effect of rising rates. ìThe ECBís long list of policy options is a powerful warning to investors who might doubt the staying power of the recent recovery on the basis of a potential further increase in yields,î they wrote. Rising rates leaves fixed income investors with difficult decisions, the strategists noted. On the one hand, flourishing global industrial production is usually good news for both commodities and emerging markets that are the source of those commodities, the manufacturing centers for goods exported to the developed world, or both. Rising rates, on the other hand, are bad news for emerging market bonds, into which investors were pouring money earlier this year in search of higher returns. With Treasury yields on the rise, so too will the number of fixed income investors who decide to forego the higher credit and liquidity risks of emerging market investments in favor of developed world paper. (The same, incidentally, is true of higher-risk junk bonds. Investors pulled $388.2 million from high-yield funds last week.) Developed markets are becoming more attractive for another reason, tooótheir industrial production momentum has been catching up to that of emerging markets. In fact, the gap between the two is the smallest it has been since the 1980s. In a turn of events that few predicted, the global economyís growth engine is shifting from the fast-growing but much smaller emerging markets to the larger, developed-world economies, and investors have acted accordingly. ìCrisis risks have swung hard away from the North Atlantic,î the Credit Suisse strategists wrote. The long nightmare of the western worldís economies, in other words, is coming to an end. Itís someone elseís turn to ruin investorsí dreams.
Getty Images/ Mark WilsonThe Department of Justice is launching a probe into JPMorgan's energy business, the Wall Street Journal reports. Now you may be thinking to yourself ó another one? More? Yes, more. The government is going after JPMorgan like it never has before, and the House of Dimon was warned specifically about their energy business this Spring. In May the New York Times reported that government officials were looking into JPMorgan's dealings in energy markets. By July, the bank was paying a $410 million fine to settle accusations from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.The bank neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing. Somehow, though, that's not the end. In the New York Times' May report, regulators specifically mentioned looking into testimony by JPMorgan commodities head Blythe Masters. According to them, Masters denied knowing anything about alleged "schemes" carried out by JPMorgan energy traders in Houston. When Masters wasn't mentioned in the FERC settlement, though, it wasn't that surprising. When was the last time a big wig at a Wall Street bank was really punished?  Now it seems that regulators were just getting started, actually, and the drama at JPMorgan Ventures Energy Corporation isn't over. That's about the last thing the bank needs. This weekend news broke that regulators are investigating the bank for hiring "princelings" ó the offspring of China's ruling class ó in order to generate business. That's a violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Then of course there's the upcoming MF Global trial, where Jon Corzine and another executive from the defunct brokerage will have to answer for the loss of over $1 billion in customer funds ó JPMorgan was MF Global's bank. The bank is also under pressure from regulators and politicians to get rid of its physical commodities business ó one that if stumbled into in the chaos of the financial crisis. Anyone else got something for JPM while we're at this?
Flickr / LarryChicken MakhaniVegetable prices in India spiked¬† 46.59% in July¬†year over year, another ugly bullet point in the country's persistent struggle with massive food inflation. In particular, the onion ‚Äî¬†a staple vegetable whose rising prices have dogged ruling parties in the past ‚Äî saw a particularly dramatic jump. From Mint: Across cities, onion prices are hovering at anywhere between¬†Rs.50 and¬†Rs.80 a kilo, nearly double last month‚Äôs levels. The latest wholesale price index (WPI) numbers released on Wednesday show that onion prices rose 144% in July over the year-ago period, after a similar increase in the previous month. Since January, onion price levels have been nearly double what they were a year ago. July's heavy rains damaged vegetable crops in areas of the country and contributed to the price hike, according to the Wall Street Journal. And India has already¬†lost hundreds of billions of dollars¬†due to inflation in the past few years.¬†Of course, the country's poor population, which spends the lion's share of income on food, has been hit hardest. India's central bank has cut interest rates three times this year, but lowering it further could further crush the rupee and drive inflation higher, the Journal reported.
REUTERS/Steve MarcusHedge funder Phil Falcone sent the following statement to CNBC from his Hamptons home this afternoon following a deal¬†with the SEC to pay an $18 million fine and accept a five-year ban from the securities industry.¬†¬† CNBC's Kate Kelly reports:¬† "Harbinger is not closing down. As expected I have to meet customer redemptions but the fund is not going away. I am happy though to get this behind me. Unfortunately I had some poor legal advice along the way and instead of questioning it, I followed it. I look forward to getting on with my life and focus on continuing to build Harbinger Group Inc., the public company." Last summer, the¬†SEC¬†charged¬†Falcone and his Harbinger Capital Partners with securities fraud. Specifically,¬†Falcone had borrowed $113.2 million from Harbinger's Special Situations Fund to pay his personal state and federal taxes, while blocking the fund's investors from redeeming their money.¬† Falcone and Harbinger admitted to wrongdoing, according to the SEC¬†press release.
Flickr/K PoldreFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Advantage In Jumping Ship Over Summer (The Wall Street Journal) Many brokers jumped ship this August, and those who did had one key advantage according to the WSJ. "The co-workers they leave behind are on vacation, and not in position to try to snatch away their clients." Advisors also find that because it's a slow time in the markets this gives them time to explain why they have chosen to move and why that is good for the clients. Today's Market Conditions Are Ripe For Investing In Disruptive Technologies (AllianceBernstein) "Market conditions today are conducive to investing in companies with disruptive potential, but it takes a sober approach to find big dreams that can deliver big returns," writes AllianceBernstein's Vadim Zlotnikov. One such example is the IT sector.¬† "According to a study by Bernstein‚Äôs semiconductor team, Moore‚Äôs Law‚Äîwhich stipulates that the processing power of silicon chips doubles every two years or so‚Äîis set to continue for the next 20‚Äì30 years. Beyond semiconductors, a recent McKinsey study has identified several areas that could disrupt our current world order over the next decade, from self-driving vehicles to robotics and cloud technology. We see a common thread to the current wave of innovation: customization and personalization of products and services." Investors can suss out the good options by looking at research and development spending. They also need to find industries that aren't too crowded by "favorable analyst ratings." At the company level investors should look for "a combination of a premium price/book valuation, rising return on equity and increasing R&amp;D-to-sales." BlackRock: 3 Ways To Prepare Your Portfolio For Rising Interest Rates (Advisor Perspectives) Investors continue to be concerned about Fed tapering and rising interest rates. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich writes that there are investors can adjust their portfolios to rising rates by increasing their exposure to stocks. And in doing so they should do three things in particular. 1. "Lessen exposure to bond market proxies like utility companies." 2. "Consider the US technology sector, which generally has had a tendency to perform well, relative to the broader market, when real rates are rising. This is partly because technology companies carry little debt so they are less vulnerable to margin compression from rising rates." 3. "Consider overweighting US mega caps relative to US small caps. Small companies, along with other risky assets, have been shown to generally perform best in an environment when monetary policy is very accommodative and investors are in a risk seeking mode." Reputation Is An Advisors Greatest Asset (Think Advisor) Mike Patton, president of Integrity Wealth Management writes that when he was younger he worked at a company that sold health insurance. At the time one salesman in particular did very well week after week. But this was because he exaggerated the benefits of the policy and soon disgruntled customers began calling in, and he was fired.¬† "That experience taught me a valuable lesson. A person may succeed by lying for a brief period. However, if the goal is to build a career, it's imperative to do what's best for the client! In the final analysis, we will not be judged by the amount of material possessions we accumulate, but by the honesty and integrity with which we conduct ourselves. As I‚Äôve said before, but which I believe bears repeating, our reputation is our greatest asset." Hedge Funder Phil Falcone Accepts 5-Year Ban From Securities Industry (SEC) Hedge fund manager Phil Falcone has accepted a five-year bank from the securities industry, the SEC said in a press release. He has also agreed to pay an $18 million fine. The SEC charged Falcone and his Harbinger Capital Partners with securities fraud last summer. An initial deal was rejected this summer.
Wikmedia CommonsBank Of AmericaBank of America intern Moritz Erhardt died last week while completing a 7-week internship program in London, the bank confirmed to Bloomberg. The cause of death is unknown, but is being treated as "non-suspicious," according to a London police statement cited by Bloomberg. Erhardt was found unconscious in his student residential building in East London on Thursday. From Bloomberg: He was pronounced dead at¬†the scene after being treated by paramedics, said the policespokesman, who asked not to be identified, citing agency policy.¬†Erhardt was an exchange student at the University of¬†Michigan‚Äôs Stephen M. Ross School of Business and attended WHU Otto Beisheim School of Management in Vallendar, Germany,¬†according to his biography page on social-network site¬†seelio.com (Update: Erhardt did a¬†semester of exchange at U-M Ross, which concluded in May of 2013, according to a spokesperson from the University of Michigan). According to the online profile, Erhardt had also worked at KPMG Consulting, Morgan Stanley, and Deutsche Bank, and went to high school in Germany, where he was valedictorian. ‚ÄúWe are deeply shocked and saddened by the news of Moritz Erhardt‚Äôs death," Bank of America spokesman John McIvor said in a statement. "He was popular amongst his peers and was a highly diligent intern at our company with a promising future. Our first thoughts are with his family and we send our condolences to them at this difficult time.‚Äù
First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
san4th via FlcikrThis morning SumZero, a networking site for financial professionals, launched a new service ‚Äî a compensation database where members can submit their pay and compare it to others submitted to the site. As you can imagine, in a matter of minutes the service, SZ Compensation, was going completely nuts. It's not hard to see why ‚Äî who doesn't like a little¬†"I'll show you mine if you show me yours?" especially in an industry as secretive about pay as finance. In 30 minutes, SumZero members (who are all vetted¬†buy-side professionals at private equity firms, hedge funds and mutual funds) had already sent in over 100 submissions. "We knew going in that there aren't many subject matters in the hedge fund industry that generate more natural curiosity than personal income and yet are more relevant to our members from a professional development stand-point," said SumZero Senior Vice President, Nicholas Kapur. "If we're truly committed to helping our members grow as professionals over the long term, we absolutely had to address compensation.... Of course, it's a bit taboo as a subject matter goes, so it needs to be handled appropriately. But the bottom line is that the information is important, there's high natural interest, and it has high application value." SumZeroYou have to be a member of SumZero to submit, and you have to submit to see other submissions. Once that's out of the way though, you can imagine how valuable this information is. It includes a member's title, length of employment, salary (obviously), fund type, bonus, and location. There are services that do this already, but they charge thousands of dollars for this kind of information. On SumZero it's all free, and that means it's disruptive. Now ‚Äî a quick rundown of what we've learned from the submissions so far. In three hours there were 145 submissions from Hedge Funds, 45 from Mutual Funds, and 30 from Private Equity Funds. All Group Total Comp Stats: Minimum compensation: $75,000 Maximum compensation: $2.15mm Median compensation: $264,000 SumZero"The most valuable aspect about this new tool is both the broad, directional statistics you can absorb as well as the very granular detail you can search and filter for," said Kapur. "You can get broad statistics on how much people are making at private equity funds in London or you can search for all the energy analysts working at $500mm to $1 billion hedge funds in NYC with 5-10 years of experience who get a certain percentage of the carried interest and who get to market their track records. Then, you can drill down and learn a whole lot more about each analyst's comp structure. It's extremely flexible." You hear that everyone? Now go forth and find out what you're all worth.
APHedge fund manager Phil Falcone, who runs Harbinger Capital, has reached an agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Falcone agreed to be barred from the securities industry for at least five years, the SEC said in a release. He also agreed to pay an $18 million penalty.¬† Earlier this summer, Falcone's initial deal with the SEC had been rejected. ¬† Last summer, the¬†SEC¬†charged¬†Falcone and his Harbinger Capital Partners with securities fraud. Falcone and Harbinger admitted to wrongdoing. Falcone is currently on vacation in the Hamptons, according to CNBC. He said in a statement that he's not closing down and his fund is not going away. ¬† Here's the full SEC release:¬† The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that New York-based hedge fund adviser Philip A. Falcone and his advisory firm Harbinger Capital Partners have agreed to a settlement in which they must pay more than $18 million and admit wrongdoing.¬† Falcone also agreed to be barred from the securities industry for at least five years. The SEC¬†filed enforcement actions in June 2012¬†alleging that Falcone improperly used $113 million in fund assets to pay his personal taxes, secretly favored certain customer redemption requests at the expense of other investors, and conducted an improper ‚Äúshort squeeze‚Äù in bonds issued by a Canadian manufacturing company.¬† In the settlement papers filed in court today, Falcone and Harbinger admit to multiple acts of misconduct that harmed investors and interfered with the normal functioning of the securities markets.¬† ‚ÄúFalcone and Harbinger engaged in serious misconduct that harmed investors, and their admissions leave no doubt that they violated the federal securities laws,‚Äù said Andrew Ceresney, Co-Director of the SEC‚Äôs Division of Enforcement. ¬†‚ÄúFalcone must now pay a heavy price for his misconduct by surrendering millions of dollars and being barred from the hedge fund industry.‚Äù The settlement, which must be approved by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, requires Falcone to pay $6,507,574 in disgorgement, $1,013,140 in prejudgment interest, and a $4 million penalty.¬† The Harbinger entities are required to pay a $6.5 million penalty.¬† Falcone has consented to the entry of a judgment barring him from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization with a right to reapply after five years.¬† The bar will allow him to assist with the liquidation of his hedge funds under the supervision of an independent monitor.¬† Among the set of facts that Falcone and Harbinger admitted to in settlement papers filed with the court: The SEC‚Äôs investigation was conducted by Conway T. Dodge, Jr., Robert C. Besse, Ken C. Joseph, Mark Salzberg, Brian Fitzpatrick, and David Stoelting.¬† The SEC‚Äôs litigation was handled by Mr. Stoelting, Mr. Besse, Mr. Salzberg, Kevin McGrath, David J. Gottesman, and Bridget Fitzpatrick. 
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images The minimum wage debate in America is a contentious one. A few weeks ago, fast-food workers across the country went on a one-day strike to protest the $7.25 per hour minimum wage mandated by federal law, proposing it be more than doubled to $15. When one does a comparison of minimum wages in other countries, though ‚Äì as ConvergEx Group strategists did in a report released today ‚Äì the U.S. minimum wage doesn't look so bad. After examining minimum wage data, the ConvergEx team took a look at the annual¬†International Labor Comparisons (ILC) report on hourly compensation costs¬†put out by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics to see if wages for higher-paid American workers stack up similarly (the BLS report contains data from the manufacturing sector). In fact, they do ‚Äì America is somewhere in the middle of the pack when it comes to compensation, according to the ILC data ‚Äì but the strategists stumbled upon something else. "After taking a more in-depth look at the ILC, it became clear that the minimum wage debate is misdirected ‚Äì among both the workers demanding higher wages and the politicians struggling to determine the minimum wage," write the strategists in the report. "Simply put, the problem is not wages: it's total compensation ‚Äì¬†that is, wages and benefits." The chart below shows that of the 30 countries tracked by the ILC report, the United States is number 29 when it comes to how much of total compensation is paid out as benefits. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg In other words, the minimum wage in the U.S. may be high relative to that in other countries, but when it comes to low-income American workers, that relatively high minimum wage is all they are really getting. "The issue of low benefits-related compensation is compounded for minimum-wage workers," says the ConvergEx team. "Just a brief glance at fast-food giants' employment websites gives an idea of what employees might expect: medical insurance*, drug coverage*, dental*, vision*, short-term disability*, life insurance*, 401k*, paid holidays and vacation*. The *, of course, is followed by 'subject to availability and eligibility.'¬†I.e., not likely." ConvergEx GroupFindings of the March 2013 BLS Employee Benefit Survey.Indeed, according to the March 2013 BLS Employee Benefit Survey, the average U.S. worker has much greater access to benefits than the lowest 10% of earners, and they tend to participate in those benefit programs to a greater degree as well. The upshot, according to the ConvergEx strategists: the comparison of benefits across countries ‚Äì coupled with extremely low access to and participation in benefit programs among low-income American workers ‚Äì suggests that the minimum wage debate should perhaps focus more on the role of benefits in U.S. compensation practices. The ConvergEx team concludes: Not only are low-wage employees less likely than average workers to be offered benefits at work ‚Äì in some cases the difference is as much as 48% - but based on the already-low benefit pay apparent in the BLS‚Äôs ILC data, we can assume that even those who do have benefits are receiving only a small¬† amount.¬†The lowest-wage workers are also responsible for paying more for medical care premiums, despite lower pay and less sick leave. And it is exactly here that the minimum wage falls short for the lowest 10% of workers: $7.25 may be enough to live on (on average) in the U.S., but it certainly isn‚Äôt enough to pay for 30-40% of medical care expenses or to save for retirement, even with employer-sponsored plans.¬†For those minimum wage workers who aren‚Äôt offered any of these benefits ‚Äì which we can in all likelihood assume is a majority of them ‚Äì this would be near impossible. With these figures, it‚Äôs not shocking that a little over 4.1% of the population is on welfare while 16% are Medicare beneficiaries. What the minimum wage debate seems to be missing, then, is the dialogue that focuses on¬†benefits¬†as the missing element of compensation rather than higher pay.¬†Any federal legislation mandating minimum benefits would hit a brick wall, of course; even the minimum wage already causes contention. Australia‚Äôs route, it would appear (from the ILC), was to raise minimum wage to more than double the US‚Äôs while still paying a similar percentage in benefits: workers, then, determine how they spend the ‚Äúextra‚Äù dough. Whether this strategy would work in the U.S. is questionable; what is not up for debate is the fact that low-wage workers are very poorly served in terms of workplace benefits on both the national and international scale. The table below shows the data from the IRC report used by the ConvergEx strategists in their analysis. ConvergEx Group
via CurbedHedge fund manager Alphonse "Buddy" Fletcher, Jr., who was featured in the book "Stock Market Wizards," is selling his Connecticut "castle"for $8.85 million, Curbed reports.† Fletcher purchased the 17-room Cornwall, Connecticut estate for $5.9 million, according to†Vanity Fair†article. He's had some legal issues lately. His namesake hedge fund firm, Fletcher Asset Management, is being sued by trustees of three Louisiana public pension plans over $145 million redemption requests, according to the Vanity Fair piece.†What's more is his flagship fund filed for†bankruptcy protection†last summer.† Fletcher has a history of lawsuits. He sued his former employer Kidder Peabody for racial discrimination. That suit was dismissed, but he won $1.3 million in arbitration, the†Vanity Fair†report said.†He also filed a racial discrimination suit against the board of Upper West Side co-op The Dakota.† All that aside, his Connecticut home looks like something out of a fairy tale and we're going to take a tour.†

There hasn't been a peep from the new CEO of Bloomberg Media Group, Justin Smith, since his hire was announced. Friday, however, he sent Bloomberg's media team a quick memo about his philosophy on journalism ó we've copied it below. The most important thing to note here is that Smith makes it clear that he is a business man. "Helping create quality content and figuring out how to commercialize it has been my lifeís passion," he wrote. "Though I came out of print media, Iíve specialized in transitioning media brands onto digital and live event platforms." Reading that, you can't help but think of Jeff Bezos, a business man, purchasing the Washington Post from the family of journalists that held it for decades. It serves as a reminder that good journalism is alive ó the problem is that it's time to rethink how it's sold to the people that want to consume it. Smith is promising that he knows how to do that, writing that he wants Bloomberg to choose to "live on the new, exciting frontier of media." Note the word "choice." Smith divides the industry into two camps ó publications that are letting the industry's changes steam roll the out of existence, and publications that accept the changes and embrace them. Check out Smith's full memo below (emphasis ours): Dear Bloomberg Media Colleagues ñ I wanted to reach out in advance of my start date on September 16th to convey how thrilled and honored I am to be joining Bloomberg LP and the Bloomberg Media Group. Working with such a talented team is one of the greatest opportunities in media today. As I told Dan before joining, I want to be at Bloomberg because there's no mission in the world more exciting to me than helping you build one of the planetís most influential and commercially successful media companies. I'm eager to meet every one of you over the next few months, and to learn about Bloomberg Media and the exciting initiatives already underway. As a start, Iíd like to share some personal, less corporate details about myself. I entered the media business twenty years ago intent on becoming a journalist but discovered that my talents were at their core entrepreneurial. This realization didnít dilute my initial interest in great journalismóIíve spent my media career at the International Herald Tribune, The Economist, The Week, The Atlantic, and now Bloomberg. Do you see the pattern? I hope so. Helping create quality content and figuring out how to commercialize it has been my lifeís passion. Though I came out of print media, Iíve specialized in transitioning media brands onto digital and live event platforms. I have not (yet) been a TV guy but I deeply appreciate the mediumís storytelling strengths and resilient business model. Iíve done my fair share of digital video and am impressed by Bloombergís recent successes here. I was raised abroad in an international household. My Mom is English and my Dadís American. They met in Paris, put down roots, and nearly 50 years later theyíre still Parisian expats living a stoneís throw from the apartment where I grew up. With international living in my DNA, I spent the first decade of my career working in government (for half a second) in West Africa and Washington and then in media abroad in Hong Kong (twice), Paris and London. In 1999 I moved to NY where I started my family, first married and now as single Dadómy children, Esme (11) and Auden (6) are the greatest joys in my life. In 2007 we moved to DC and Iíve been commuting between the two cities ever since.On the business front, I thought it might be helpful to describe some of the ideas that I believe successful media companies need to embrace in order to thrive in these turbulent times. We first must appreciate how historic this moment is for our industry. The changes are as exhilarating as they are disorienting. Every day, we face a new media reality and a new set of complex challenges. The disruption around us is incessant with no end in sight. Years from now, we will look back at this period and wonder how we ever made it through such choppy, uncharted waters. Here are some principles that I believe will help us successfully navigate this period of change: 1) Choose to live on the new, exciting frontier of mediaThe media industry is bifurcated into two distinct worlds: the struggling traditional segment that longs for a simpler, more profitable past that will never return; and the vibrant, entrepreneurial segment that is reinventing the industry before our eyes. The simple act of choosing to live on the new, wide-open frontier is a powerful step toward success. 2) In media today, talent is everythingBecause weíre in the business of making and selling ideas, talent is the ultimate driver of media success. In a digital and social world, a talented individual journalist can rival the influence and impact of the worldís greatest media brands. A brilliant marketer can dream up a creative idea that generates millions of dollars of brand value. An innovative salesperson can beat the competition by selling ideas-based programs rather than commodity advertising. World class, A+ talent is the super-ingredient for media success, and the organizations that recruit and maintain their top talentóand manage it wellówill win. 3) Accept that you donít know where things are going and act accordinglyAnyone who tells you they can predict the future state of media and its consumption patterns or business models isn't being honest. No one knows where things are going and how theyíll play out. To succeed, we must accept this state of confusion and embrace the chaos. When thereís no obvious right answer, weíre forced to experiment, and examine new, sometimes uncomfortable, ideas. In media in 2013, invention, creativity and ingenuity are the currencies of success. 4) Foster entrepreneurshipOne definition of entrepreneurship is the ability to evolve your product, business model, technology, or talent base to capture a changing market opportunity. Moving quickly is paramount: the faster you move, the more you learn, and the sooner you can optimize for success. Fred Wilson, the VC behind Twitter, Foursquare, Zynga and others, argues that ìspeedî is the quality he seeks out above all others in digital media entrepreneurs. I agree. 5) Quality and brand matter in a digital race to the bottomThe conventional wisdom is that digital media threatens the quality of journalism. Itís true in many instancesóand therein lies a tremendous opportunity for a world-class media company such as Bloomberg to differentiate itself from the onslaught of new digital entrants with different ideas about what is accurate, insightful and intelligent. There will always be a robust market for quality content. No technology will ever erode this demand. Itís our job to keep our standards high as we experiment. Bloomberg was built on accuracy and insight. We must build on this strength. 6) Develop an allergy to failureI once heard an entrepreneur describe his business philosophy as being ìallergic to failure.î I recognized a bit of myself in that, and I sense that Bloomberg and the people who work here have the same allergy. This is not to say that intermittent failure is not an important part of the innovation process and something that should be embraced at times. This description refers to a mental rash óan early warning systemóthat signals the need for immediate business intervention and evolution. I know Iím coming to a group where complacency is anathema, and weíll need every bit of that allergyóand the speed and adaptability that cures itóto navigate the relentless waves of disruption that weíll continue to face in media. Thanks to your hard work and Andy Lackís leadership, the Bloomberg Media Group is well positioned to become one of the worldís most influential media companies. The changes underway in media make this opportunity larger and more exciting than itís ever been. By working together - creatively, entrepreneurially, collaboratively ñ we can realize our biggest dreams and define the global media company of the future. Itís an incredible privilege to be given the chance to work with you. Iíll see you on September 16th. Best,Justin
REUTERS/Khaled AbdullahSupporters of Egypt's deposed Islamist President Mohamed Mursi shout slogans during a rally in protest of the recent violence in Egypt, in Sanaa, August 16, 2013.Oil experts have attributed the recent rally in prices to supply disruptions in Libya and geopolitical turmoil in Egypt, which some believe could lead to additional disruptions. Specifically, some traders worry that the ongoing chaos in Cairo could eventually spill into the Suez Canal, one of the most important oil chokepoints in the world. However, Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson isn't too worried about Egypt.† He looks back at the recent experience of the Arab Spring: Egypt: Direct Threat to Oil Supply Likely OverstatedSupply in Egypt has remained relatively insulated from geopolitical events, even during the Arab Spring. With the turmoil occurring in Cairo, nearly 100 miles from the Suez Canal, we believe it is unlikely that flows will be seriously disrupted. Even during the height of the Arab Spring in 2011, there were no disruptions to Egyptian oil production. With the army still in control of Egypt and likely securing port infrastructure and oil production facilities, the situation is unlikely to be different in 2013. In our view, the greatest concern with Egypt should be contagion, but we view Syria as a greater threat on that front. We also see the potential for large-scale wheat imports in an effort to calm civil unrest. That said, the current round of protests are turning violent and involve strong divisions within the country rather than protests against the government, so the risk of escalation is greater this time round. However, even under a scenario where the Suez Canal is disrupted, we believe that the impact on oil markets would be limited. Suez is not Hormuz. Suez traffic could easily be rerouted around Africa without losing supply. The long sail times would likely cause some short-term issues, but with a glut of tankers available, tanker capacity is unlikely to be a constraint. As you can see in the chart, there was basically no blip in Egyptian oil supply during the Arab Spring. Morgan Stanley
Here's one way the rich hold onto their wealth: By hiring their spawn. This way, the wealth and the accumulated power stay in the family, rather than dissipate outwords. Toby Nangle tweeted out this great chart from economist Miles Corak, who has done a lot of work on wealth mobility. It shows the likelihood that a son at some point in their life works for the same firm that their father once worked for across various income levels. The conclusion couldn't be more clear: The richer the father is, the more likely it is that their son will work at a firm they worked for at some point in their life. As you get to the very elite, the % of sons sharing an employer with their father just soars. The numbers in the survey are from Canada or Denmark, but the similarity across countries indicates that this is a pattern not confirmed to just those two. Miles Corak
In the latest Investor Trust Study from¬†CFA¬†Institute¬†and Edelman, only a little more than half of respondents said they "trust investment firms to do what is right" when it comes to managing their money.¬† In fact, twice as many investors (35%) say they care about finding a firm that is looking out for their clients' best interests¬†than a firm with high returns (17%). Fees were even less likely to sway investors, the report finds. If people are trying to send the investment industry a message, we hope it's been received. It will (and should) take a lot more than market returns to convince investors to put their faith in a financial firm.  So, how do you know you've found an advisor who has your best interests at heart?¬† First off, we're not denying that returns matter when it comes to investing for your future (why else would you bother, right?). But finding a financial planner who works in your best interest should be first and foremost on your list of qualifications. Remember, you'll likely be working with this person for decades to come. Once you've decided that finding a financial planner is in your best interest, it pays to start with recommendations from family and friends. If you know another person you trust has had a positive experience, you're already one step closer.¬† ‚ÄúYour planner isn‚Äôt just there to crunch the numbers,‚Äù¬†says¬†Samantha Vient, CFP¬Æ, of¬†LearnVest¬†Planning Services. "She‚Äôs helping you make a plan for your money and your life. You should be looking for someone who has similar values to you." From there, let the vetting process begin. Make sure he or she is properly certified (not all certified planners are created equally)¬†to dole out the kind of advice you need. Then do a little snooping to be sure they don't have a bad record.¬† The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority‚Äôs (FINRA)¬†BrokerCheck¬†will turn up any past transgressions.¬† Vient suggests finding a planner who is in a similar life stage as yourself, as they'll be able to identify personally with your financial concerns today and how they will change tomorrow. Similarly, it may help to find a planner who also works with clientele in your particular demographic as well. Next, you've got to be willing to ask them just as many questions as they ask you. For example: What's your overall investment strategy? What kinds of conversations did you have with clients before and after the Great Recession? How do you expect my investment needs to change over time? The latter question is probably the most important of all. You need a planner who will grow along with you, helping you adjust your investments as your risk tolerance ebbs and flows with age. And of course, you need to pick a planner you can afford. Some charge upfront fees or retainers, while others work solely off commissions they earn by selling clients on certain investment products. If you don't see their fee structure listed on their website, make that first on your list of questions. Many experts recommend seeking out a fee-only planner for a simple reason: They charge a flat fee for services in advance and are under fiduciary duty to work toward your best interests. The only catch is that they aren't able to advise people who are interested in¬†annuities, life insurance, or disability insurance.¬† To find one, check out the¬†National Association of Personal Financial Advisors¬†(NAPFA).
Flickr / zcopleyGermany has clarified its position on Bitcoin, everyone's favorite digital cryptocurrency. After a parliamentary inquiry from the Federal Ministry of Finance, Bitcoin achieved "unit of account" classification, further upending its schtick as an unregulated safe haven.¬† Germany had previously said Bitcoin should be subject to capital gains tax like regular trading activity. The new ruling¬†could mean the virtual currency will soon qualify for a sales tax too. From MarketWatch: ‚ÄúThe German Ministry of Finance does not classify bitcoins as e-money or as a functional currency; they cannot be regarded as a foreign currency.¬†Nevertheless they have to be subsumed under the German term of ‚ÄòRechnungseinheit‚Äô as a financial instrument,‚Äù Martin Chaudhuri from the Ministry of Finance¬†told CoinDesk. Rechnungseinheit translates to unit of account in English. Regulators in the U.S. have also bumped up Bitcoin scrutiny. The state of New York¬†subpoenaed about two dozen Bitcoin merchants as part of an investigation into their compliance with financial statutes.
Flickr/Melissa MercierHaving an active sex life plays a major role in your financial success. Nick Drydakis, a senior lecturer in economics at Anglia Ruskin University in Cambridge, England, found that those who have sex at least four times weekly made 5% more in wages than their counterparts who aren't as lucky. On the other hand, those who don't have any sex at all earned 3% less than those who are sexually active.¬† In the paper titled¬†"The Effect of Sexual Activity on Wages," published by the Institute for the Study of Labor in Bonn, Germany,¬†Drydakis ¬†writes that sex is a "barometer for health, quality of life, well-being and happiness." The economics professor says that more sex alone won't result in a higher paycheck. However, more sexual activity may result in higher self-esteem, confidence, and overall happiness, which in turn make employees more amiable, productive, and creative. Sex can be¬†an important factor in how satisfied someone is in his personal life, and satisfaction in that area can affect¬†work as well. "People need to love and be loved (sexually and non-sexually) by others. In the absence of these elements, many people become susceptible to loneliness, social anxiety, and depression that could affect their working life," Drydakis told¬†Michelle Castillo at CBSNews.com. It's also important to note that more sex can result in higher wages, but higher wages may also result in more sex.¬†"They may increase the value and attractiveness of a person on the dating market," Drydakis says. The study collected data on 7,500 people aged 26 to 50. Sexual preference did not make a difference in the results, the study found.
Reuters/Edgar SuIndonesia's stocks got whipped on Monday, falling 5%. The Indonesian rupiah also took a beating falling to 10,500 per dollar, for the first time since 2009.  Year-to-date the rupiah is down nearly 7.7% against the greenback. And the Jakarta Composite is the worst-performing stock index in the world this quarter. One of the major reasons for the weak currency has been the expanding current account deficit. On Friday, the Bank of Indonesia announced that the current account deficit widened to $9.8 billion or 4.4% of GDP in Q2, from 2.4% in Q1. And this has in large part been driven by the slowdown in commodity prices for crucial exports like palm oil and coal. From the Bank of Indonesia: "Non-oil &amp; gas trade surplus narrowed as imports, especially imports of raw materials and consumption goods, increased in relation to Q2 domestic consumption that historically was always higher than Q1. On the contrary, improvement in non-oil &amp; gas export performance was hampered by declining commodity prices in the international market due to China economic slow down [emphasis ours]. The services account deficit widened due to increased payments for transportation of goods in line with imports and more residents traveling abroad during the school holidays. In the same period, the income account deficit also widened as foreign debt interest payments and profit transfers to foreign investors increased in accordance with schedules. Meanwhile, oil and gas trade deficit eased compared to the previous quarter." Large current account deficits will only weaken its currency further. And if Indonesia's currency weakens, it would have to pay more for its imports and this could hurt growth. This chart from FRED shows the deterioration in Indonesia's current account balance over the last five years: FRED Indonesia has also been hurt by slower growth. Q2 GDP fell to 5.8%, and this was the fourth straight quarter of slowing growth. Here's a look at the pace of growth over the past five years: FRED Indonesia's central bank announced a surprise rate hike in June, at a time when other global central banks were easing. The hike was attributed to the pressures on its currency and rising inflation. Consumer prices were up 8.6% year-over-year in July. Indonesia also cut fuel subsidies despite widespread anger in an effort to support the rupiah. And with presidential elections due in 2014, investors continue to be wary of investing in Indonesia. India faces a similar problem, with a wide current account gap and slowing growth weighing on the currency. Morgan Stanley identifies both the Indonesian rupiah and the Indian rupee as two of the fragile five currencies (the other three are the Brazilian real, the Turkish lira, and the South African rand.) "The EM currency bear market that has been in place for the past two years is likely to continue over the medium term, as the factors supporting BoP flows over the last decade continue to unwind," Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in an August 5 note. "Currencies will likely be held back by high inflation, large current account deficits, challenging capital flow prospects and potentially weak EM growth. The prospective normalization of Fed monetary policy simply exacerbates these underlying fundamental weaknesses. BRL, IDR, INR, TRY and ZAR will likely remain under medium-term pressure."
This morning, things were pretty quiet in the stock market. There were no economic data releases, no notable earnings ‚Äì not much going on in general. In the last hour or so, though, the market has taken a turn lower, and now the S&amp;P 500 is down 0.3% on the day, trading right at 1650. The Treasury market is also selling off ‚Äì the yield on the 10-year note is 6 basis points higher from Friday's close, trading at 2.88%. If these levels hold and the index closes in the red, it will be the ninth trading session of the last eleven in which the index has fallen. In a note to clients Friday, BofA Merrill Lynch technical research analyst Stephen Suttmeier warned that the sell-off that has taken hold of the market over the past two weeks may not be over yet. Reflecting on Thursday's trading ‚Äì the worst session in the recent spate of selling ‚Äì Suttmeier wrote: Yesterday‚Äôs 1.43% drop in the S&amp;P 500 completed a 1-month top, but market complacency suggests deeper downside risk. Sellers may not be exhausted yet and the following four indicators point to complacency in the US equity market: The chart below shows today's trading session to the right of the light blue shaded area. Thinkorswim
Three weeks ago, fast-food workers across the United States went on strike to protest the country's minimum wage of $7.25 an hour. The protesters called for a more-than-doubled minimum wage of $15 an hour. In a note to clients today, ConvergEx Group strategists look at minimum wages around the world. "Out of the 20 or so countries listed on The Economist's Big Mac Index (countries that also have minimum wages ñ Italy and Germany do not, for example) from 2012, the U.S. has the 7th highest minimum wage on an absolute basis, about the median number," say the strategists. "The absolute lowest federal minimum wage is in Sierra Leone, where workers can expect just $0.03/hour. India is the lowest among larger economies with a $0.28/hour rate. Australia is at the opposite end of the spectrum, with a whopping $16.88 hourly mandated wage." If the minimum wage in the United States were to increase to $15, as U.S. fast-food workers proposed, the country's minimum wage would be second only to Australia's. The ConvergEx strategists also calculated the number of minutes of working the minimum wage it takes to buy a Big Mac in countries around the world. Click here to see those results ª Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from ConvergEx Group
via YouTubeJohn Peterson, a top Herbalife distributor, has died in an apparent suicide, the New York Post's Michelle Celarier reports.¬†He was 58.¬† From the Post:¬† Peterson was found inside a 2008 Ford pickup parked at his residence in Steamboat Springs, Colo., where he ‚Äúsuccumbed to a single gunshot wound,‚Äù said Ray Birch, undersheriff for Routt County. Birch said the initial investigation indicated the gunshot was self-inflicted. According to the report, Peterson, who was a member of the "Founder's Circle," was one of Herbalife's top distributors earning an estimated $3 million last year.¬† In a promotional video for Herbalife, Peterson is seen talking about the lavish lifestyle he was able to live because of the "good fortune" he had with Herbalife. He said he had four homes‚Äî one in Steamboat Springs, Colo., a ranch in Wyoming, a beach home in Mexico and a place in Brazil. ¬†He said he also used a helicopter and a plane to get around. His interests included snow skiing, water skiing, hunting, fishing, horseback riding, golf and tennis, according to the video.¬† Herbalife is a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutritional products such as weight loss shakes and supplements. ¬†The company has been the focal point of a battle between billionaire hedge fund titans.¬† Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, said last December that he's short $1 billion worth of the stock. ¬†He believes Herbalife is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income individuals, especially from the Hispanic population.¬† Ackman's long-time rival Carl Icahn disagrees. ¬†Shortly after Ackman revealed his short, Icahn amassed a 16% stake in the company. He believes Ackman will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes." ¬† Watch Peterson's promotional video below:¬† 
In theory, a stock-split should do nothing for the market value of a company. However, a lower stock price is thought to add liquidity to a stock by making it more easily tradable. Also, it attracts smaller investors who may not be willing to buy a stock with a high share price. In his new weekly market strategy note, Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus presents this chart of the number of S&amp;P 500 stock splits per year since 1998. "Even as the S&amp;P 500 recently reached yet another nominal all-time high, companies have remained reluctant to split their stock as the market continues to trend higher for most of the year thus far," notes Stoltzfus. "Stocks such as Priceline, Google, and MasterCard closed Friday at nominal high relative levels of $940.07, $856.91, and $618.21, respectively." Stoltzfus believes this speaks to the nature of the market participants. "The trend for three-digit priced stocks illustrates the dominance of institutions (including: hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds, etc.) over private investors," he said. Oppenheimer, Business Insider
After tanking to end last week, Treasuries are continuing to sell off in Monday trading, and bond yields are once again making fresh new multi-year highs. Right now, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is up 6 basis points from Friday's close to 2.88%. 10-year Treasury futures are down 0.3%, trading right near their lows of the day. There were no economic data releases in the U.S. today, and trading in equity markets is pretty quiet: the S&amp;P 500 is down around 0.1%. The chart below shows trading in 10-year Treasury futures at 15 minute intervals over the past week, capturing the sell-off that has gripped the market. Thinkorswim
Cutler was standing in front of a stage in the auditorium of the Westover Magnet Elementary School in Stamford, Conn. On the stage, sitting on folding chairs behind uneven tables, sat the planning board of the city of Stamford. Packed into the auditorium were 150 or so Stamford residents. Most of them it seemed, hated Cutler. "Can I please take a few moments to explain?" Cutler asked. "NO!" the folks in the auditorium chairs shouted. Cutler was just a few minutes into explaining to the planning board the designs to build a mammoth headquarters for Bridgewater Associates,†"the world's richest and strangest hedge fund"†founded by†Ray Dalio, one of wealthiest people in the U.S. Cutler, an architect who trained under the legendary Louis Kahn, had meticulously prepared a presentation about the history and environment of the piece of land that Bridgewater would like to use for its new 850,000-square-foot headquarters. The boat people didn't care. They were shouting Cutler down. Boat people? Oh, yes. Boat people. The piece of land Bridgewater has selected for its new headquarters is a 14-acre strip jutting into the Long Island Sound. Until recently, it was a boatyard called Brewer Yacht Haven. Then, a couple of years ago, a development company called Building and Land Technology closed the boatyard and tore down the buildings on the propertyówhich outraged Stamford's boat owners and sparked a protest movement called Save Our Boatyard. The boaters lived up to their acronym last Tuesday night. Almost all of those crammed into the auditorium were opponents of Cutler's and Bridgewater's plan for the property. They cheered when opponents of the plan spoke, and jeered during speeches given by city administration officials, architects and developers from a company called BLT, which supports the plan. The leader of the SOBs is a platinum-blond office manager named Maureen Boylan. She describes the fight as "billionaires versus boaters." Think the 1 percent versus the 5 percent. "Do not let this administration or BLT strong-arm you, or buy into their so-called misrepresentation of what this agreement will provide for the city and the taxpayers," Boylan said Tuesday night.† The boaters are not, for the most part, yachtsmen. Boylan's boat is pretty representative: A 27-foot "pleasure boat" manufactured by Sea Ray. These vessels are known as day boats. You take them out for a few hours of cruising on the Long Island Sound, perhaps for a bit of fishing.† The developers, BLT, have proposed rebuilding the boatyard in another locationóa piece of land a bit north of the old Yacht Haven. The land is smaller, and accessible only by navigating up a narrow waterway. The developers say that it is actually a safer place to have a boatyard because it is behind a protective hurricane barrier. Boylan and her fellow SOBs describe it as a "landlocked" property that will never work as a functional boatyard. It's easy to understand the skepticism of the SOBs. An agreement in place since 2007 required the developers to keep the old boatyard intact. But in 2011, they tore it down. A court later issued a cease-and-desist order preventing further work on the property but the damage was already done. Yacht Haven was gone. It's now a dirt patch, fenced off and unused. The SOBs don't trust the folks who tore down their paradise to rebuild it down the shore. It was Cutler who got Bridgewater involved. The architect, who works from Bainbridge Island in Washington's Puget Sound, met Bridewater founder Dalio some time around 2000. Dalio had been looking for an architect to build a home on a piece of land near Jackson Hole, Wyo. The local architects kept showing him pictures of homes designed by Cutler's firm, Cutler Anderson, so Dalio decided he might as well hire Cutler instead of his imitators. The Wyoming house never got builtóalthough Cutler did build a house in Spain for Dalio. Over the following decade, both Bridgewater and Cutler Anderson grew. The architects, who had mostly focused on residential buildings, expanded into designing office buildings. The hedge fund accumulated more than $120 million in assets under management and thousands of employees. So when Bridgewater wanted to build a new headquarters to replace its current four office locations, Cutler got the call. Cutler and Bridgewater looked at various locations around Connecticut, including others in Stamford. But the 14 acres that had been Yacht Haven were especially attractive to Cutler because they were so polluted. He saw the chance to accomplish a public goodórepairing the polluted land and nearby waterwaysówith Bridgewater's wealth. "It's really the highest public goodóhealing the land," Cutler said. Before Yacht Haven, the property was occupied by a shipworks and a coal gasification plant. Pollutants, including arsenic and mercury, contaminated the ground and the water. Cutler joked that if you drank a glass of the water, you'd die of cancer a few days later. Cutler is a hippy. He's got soft, brown eyes and a white beard. His voice is gentle, soothing. He sounds a lot like Bob Ross, the late television landscape painter guy. Cutler moved out to Bainbridge Island to get as far away from Philadelphia, where he went to college and graduate school, as he could. "I was done with urban, with cities," he said. Before he begins to design a building, Cutler engages in what he calls "apprenticing the land." He studies its topography and its history. He walks the land himself, often requiring his clients to accompany him. Dalio and his wife had joined Cutler as he surveyed their Wyoming property. "Before we can love anything, we have to understand its nature. If you love money, it's because you understand its nature. If you love a woman, it's because you understand her nature. If you are going to love a structure and a property, first you have to understand its nature," Cutler said. For the first few minutes of Cutler's presentation, the crowd in the Westover auditorium was captivated. He showed them pictures of what the land looked like during the Colonial era, during the 19th century and early 20th century. He explained its history and how it came to be so polluted. "You have a piece of land here in your city that is going to require an enormous amount of work to heal. It has been damaged by you ... in this city. We have the opportunity to use the resources of Bridgewater to heal the land," Cutler said. That's when they lost it. The shouting started. The SOBs turned on Cutler. The chair of the planning committee, Theresa Dell, told Cutler he would not be allowed to talk about the 14-acre property that Bridgewater wants to use because the official purpose of the meeting was to evaluate the plans for the new boatyard nearby.† "He called them murderers, basically," one person at the meeting said. "He accused them of murdering the planet." Cutler tried to sound forgiving. He explained that it was a long time ago when the land was polluted. People had different attitudes. Unfortunately for Cutler, he had lost the room. And, more importantly, Chairwoman Dell. She told him he would not be allowed to proceed if he continued to talk about the former Yacht Haven property. But how could Cutler explain why the new boatyard should be in a different location than the old one without talking about what he had planned for the old property? Nevermind, Dell told him. No more talk about healing the polluted property that had been Yacht Haven. Dell is herself a boat person. One person familiar with the matter says she owns a boat and has "diamond-encrusted, anchor-shaped earrings." (Dell didn't return a phone call to her home number, so I can't confirm this.)† "It was shocking. It was the worst I've ever been treated in 20 years of public meetings. If I were a different kind of person, I would be angry," Cutler said afterward. Cutler never got to explain his design for the Bridgewater "campus." It includes two buildings separated by an interior courtyard and surrounded by a public park. The green rooftops will make the buildings invisible from the sky. And mirrors on the walls around the courtyard will disguise the buildings, reflecting only images of nearby trees, so that until you are actually in the buildings you won't see them. Instead, Cutler was told to sit down. He was followed by a stream of dozens of SOBs. Boylan was their leadoff batter, followed by Penney Burnett, who warned that hedge funds "don't last long." She is on the official list of Bernard Madoff's victims, so it's easy to see why she distrusts hedge funds. Then on and on it went, until around 11:30 at night. And it's not over. The board will meet again next week to hear additional speakersómost of whom are expected to oppose the development plans.† Bridgewater is attempting to stay out of the fight, for now. A spokesperson said that the company is "excited about the prospect" of building a new headquarters but continues to evaluate "outstanding issues." No one from Bridgewater spoke at the meeting, although there were a couple of people from the hedge fund in attendance. When Cutler had dinner with Dalio recently, the two men only discussed the headquarters project for "about 45 seconds," according to Cutler. "It's not something Ray is obsessing about. He's a busy guy with a lot on his mind," Cutler said. A person familiar with the matter said that Bridgewater is "hedging its bets" and looking at different properties, just in case the Stamford location doesn't work out. Some people backing the project believe that it will win approval from the planning board despite the vocal opposition. Cutler's not coming back for the next meeting, scheduled for Aug. 27. He said he has prior commitments. But even if he was free, who would blame him for not wanting to climb back into the water with the boat people of Stamford? óBy CNBC's John Carney.†Follow me on Twitter†@Carney

NetEase Bank workers in Kunming spent eight hours counting 5,000 yuan in one jiao (0.1 yuan) coins thanks to a Chinese man who paid an assault fine with some serious spite.† Last year, a woman with the surname Wu was eating at a noodle shop where she and her husband reportedly got into an altercation with the owner†(from the Shanghaiist†via†NetEase). The argument turned physical, with Wu suffering a brain contusion and her husband leaving with three broken ribs. A court awarded Wu damages. After paying her the bulk of the 68,000 yuan ($11,000) fine, the noodle restaurant owner gave the remaining 10,000 yuan ($1,600) in eight large bags of coins. Wu deposited half of the change, which took 18 peeved bank workers all day. Though, this means that Wu is still chilling with a few hundred bucks of Chinese dimes.
Twitter.com/officialsigepThis week, fraternity rush is beginning at college campuses across the country. ¬† The reasons people join these groups might vary. Most people probably want to make more friends and have a full social calendar, while others might want to form connections with past and current brothers that could be useful in later life. We combed through a bunch of fraternities notable members lists to find big Wall Street names, both past and present, who were brothers. ¬† We've included a round up of frats that have produced some of the biggest, and in a couple cases some of the most infamous, names on the Street.¬† If you know of any that we're missing, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.¬†
This weekend reports surfaced that the SEC is investigating JPMorgan for hiring Chinese 'princelings' (the privileged children of ruling Communist Party leaders) in order to land business in the country. The bank has yet to be accused of any wrong-doing, and the SEC isn't accusing these hires of being unqualified people either. So cue the† ó 'oh c'mon, it's just business' ó crowd, correctly pointing out that these kids are well-connected, and probably some of the best educated people in the country. Why wouldn't JPMorgan want to hire them? It's a really simple argument, but it doesn't take into account what constitutes a crime in this case ó the true causes and effects of these hires. The problem isn't who JPMorgan is hiring, it's why ó and if JPMorgan is hiring these people in order to land business deals, that's a violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and there is legal precedent for the government to take action. To understand that, you have to look at these hires on a case by case basis. In this story there are two specific hires that require a deeper look at cause and effect. First off, according to the New York Times, is the hiring of a Chinese railway official 's daughter in JPMorgan's Hong Kong office back in 2007. The official's daughter was hired while his agency, The China Railway Group, was selecting JPMorgan to advise on its IPO. The bank raised $5 billion for the company. The official was later detained on accusations of doling out public documents for cash bribes. The second case involves the son of the CEO of a company called China Everbright. JPMorgan had never done business with the company before hiring the CEO's son, but once he was hired, China Everbright became one of the banks "prized Asian clients." U.S. companies are required to stick to certain rules when they operate abroad, whether a ruling oligarchy happens to be consolidating their grasp on power or not. And according to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, it doesn't even matter if the workers are qualified, the mere act of hiring a family member in order to foster a business relationship with someone is a no-no. That's why, in 2007, a company called Paradigm caught the government's ire for a plethora of questionable foreign dealings, one of which was hiring the brother of a "decision maker" at Mexico's state oil company, Pemex. Paradigm officials had already spent $10,000 "entertaining" the decision maker, according to government filings, when his brother was hired as a driver for the company. Now, the decision maker's brother did actually work as a driver (so that's nice) but around the same time, Paradigm also scored a contract with Pemex through this "decision maker." Not a good look ó Paradigm was forced to admit wrongdoing (you know JPMorgan does not like that) and make changes to their rules and internal bribery controls as a result. So add this to the long list of reasons JPMorgan should be treading lightly these days ó at home and abroad.
The Economist's "Big Mac index" is a fun way of measuring relative prices in different countries after adjusting for the nominal exchange rate between different countries' currencies. "The Big Mac index was invented by†The Economist†in 1986 as a lighthearted guide to whether currencies are at their 'correct' level," says the magazine's website. "It is based on the theory of purchasing-power parity (PPP), the notion that in the long run exchange rates should move towards the rate that would equalise the prices of an identical basket of goods and services (in this case, a burger) in any two countries. For example, the average price of a Big Mac in America in July 2013 was $4.56; in China it was only $2.61 at market exchange rates. So the 'raw' Big Mac index says that the yuan was undervalued by 43% at that time." In a note to clients today, strategists at ConvergEx Group make a slight modification to the calculation. "We wanted to see where the U.S. minimum wage ranked on an international scale, so we took a fairly well-known indicator ñ the Big Mac Index ñ and compared burger prices to minimum wages in different countries," says the ConvergEx team. "Itís near impossible to gauge minimum wages apples-to-apples, of course, so we took a different route for comparison: how many hours does it take to earn a Big Mac at minimum wage?" The chart below shows their findings. "It takes 34 minutes of work to earn a Big Mac in the birthplace of the burger, compared to 22 minutes in New Zealand and France and just 18 in Australia," say the strategists. "A worker in India would have to work about 6 hours." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from ConvergEx Group
SAC Capital started the year with $15 billion in assets, $6 billion of which belonged to outside investors. But a high profile insider trading probe has seen Steve Cohen's embattled fund lose $3 billion in the first half of the year from investors (the firm has resisted client pressure to return all the money before the end of the year). Bloomberg reported that the firm expects to start 2014 with $9 billion in assets, meaning that nearly all of the outside investors will have bailed en masse. Nearly all, but not all. The Wall Street Journal found one SAC loyalist who isn't going anywhere. And one is the loneliest number.†From the Journal: "I feel like Will Smith in 'I Am Legend' when everyone else has died," said Mr. Butowsky, managing director of Chapwood Investments LLC, an adviser to wealthy clients on hedge-fund and other investments. "I'm the last man standing." While Butowsky isn't seeking a payout, many of SAC's other major clients like Blackstone already headed for the exits, the Journal reports. As a result, SAC executives have weighed the possibility of turning the fund into looking more like a family office. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal&gt;
Bank of America Merrill LynchThe Emerging Markets have been an awful place to invest this year. With global growth remaining sluggish while interest rates rise, investors have been quick to pull their money out of these markets. Stocks, bonds and currencies have all struggled. However, many people have been missing the impressive resilience of the Frontier Markets, the high-risk developing economies that eventually grow into Emerging Markets. "Frontier Market funds ($1.5bn inflows YTD) have decoupled from Emerging Markets ($2.1bn outflows YTD ñ Chart 2)," noted Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michael Hartnett on Thursday. "These so-called ìemerging markets of the futureî have enjoyed strong growth from low base effects, abundant natural and human resources, the availability of easy gains from market reforms and injections of technology into relatively low-wage economies," said Franklin Templeton's Mark Mobius in June. "Compared with more mature emerging markets, frontier markets are relatively under-researched, and we believe that this lack of familiarity could lead to undervaluation and pricing anomalies that we could seek to exploit through our extensive research resources." Check out this chart of the year-to-date performance's of the major global market indices. As you can see on the right, the Frontier Markets have actually generated positive returns this year. Oppenheimer
Former Chongqiing party chief Bo Xilai is set to go to trial on Thursday. Xilai who was set to rise to power and take a place on China's all-powerful Politburo Standing Committee fell Specifically, he† face charges of bribery, graft and abuse of power at the Jinan Intermediate People's Court. Bo's wife Gu Kailai was charged with the murder of British national Neil Heywood. Bo's downfall began with the circumstances around Heywood's death. Now he face charges of "bribery, graft and abuse of power," at the Jinan Intermediate People's Court. Chinese policymakers have been cracking down on corruption. Former Chinese president Hu Jintao warned that corruption "could prove fatal to the party, and even cause the collapse of the party and the fall of the state." Of course, Bo had been a thorn in the side of many of China's top policymakers, and some worried that he would become the next Mao. Reuters put together this great primer of Bo Xilai's connections. Reuters
 2011 gave us one of the best martial arts movies in the last decade. "The Raid: Redemption" has a fairly simple premise: A SWAT team is sent to an apartment complex in Jakarta's slums to oust the crime lord that has it in its grip. Previous attempts by both the police and rival gangs have failed. The 101-minute movie, which is violent pretty much from start to finish, plays out in the apartment complex. "The Raid" sees Welsh director Gareth Evans reunite with Indonesian actor Iko Uwais. The two had previously worked together on a 2009 film called "Merantu," which is credited with bringing Indonesian martial arts, specifically silat, back to the forefront. "The Raid" has been criticized for having a threadbare plot and minimal character development. Roger Ebert gave the move 1 star out of 4, writing, "Have you noticed how cats and dogs will look at a TV screen on which there are things jumping around? It is to that level of the brain's reptilian complex that the film appeals." We have to disagree. Not with the argument that there isn't much of a plot. But more to the point that it's just "things jumping around" which is well, downright derisive. "The Raid," again puts silat and Iko Uwais on display. Silat is an aggressive, joint-breaking fighting style and often involves the use of knives and we see some truly creative fight sequences through the movie. And much of the choreography for the fight scenes was done by Iko Uwais who plays good cop "Rama," and Yayan Ruhian who plays "Mad Dog," one of the crime lords top henchmen. There were clearly some great contenders from "The Raid: Redemption." For instance, the machete fight scene, the drug lab scene, or¬† the fight between Jaka and Mad Dog that incorporates both Silat and judo. But we picked the final fight, which draws on a common trope in martial arts movies i.e. two good guys take on one bad guy, though it's arguable if Andi, played by Donny Alamsyah, is good. Some whine about the fight being too long and lacking the flourish of some of the other scenes, but that's part of the reason it's great. Mad Dog doesn't like using weapons. He lives for hand-to-hand combat. At one point in the movie, he¬† puts down a gun and says, "I've never really liked using these. They take away the rush. Squeezing a trigger, it's like ordering take-out. This is the thing. This is the pulse. This is what I do." He clearly enjoys both fighting and killing people.¬† Watching him and Rama go against each other in a nearly six-minute fast-paced, brutal fight is pretty epic. Below we break down the fight, and explain why it's so epic. WARNING: It's very violent, so if violent martial arts on the screen isn't your thing, then you should probably click away. MrShizzle253 via YouTube/Business Insider Unlike many of the other fight scenes in the movie that include chases in and out of corridors and rooms, this fight is contained to this one grungy, bare room.  Some great blocks from Mad Dog as Rama and Andi try to corner him with kicks. MrShizzle253 via YouTube And as many have noted, what's great is that the director didn't resort to the shaky-camera effect (that, for instance, became wearisome in the Bourne movies) and a bunch of wire tricks, though those can be great when used sparingly. PT. Merantau Films/XYZ Films/Business Insider Love the capoeira-like choreography for these kicks. PT. Merantau Films/XYZ Films/Business Insider Extremely painful to watch. PT. Merantau Films/XYZ Films/Business Insider We're not sure what to call this but you can watch it over and over again.  This is probably one of the best sequences in the fight scene. Rama delivers a joint snapping blow to each of Mad Dog's arms (the sound effects are pretty intense), he follows it up with a quick succession of jabs to the chest, a painful looking choke-hold, a spin, only to then snap his back. PT. Merantau Films/XYZ Films/Business Insider And he finishes it by using the light bulb fragment lodged in Mad Dog's throat to slice through his jugular. (The gurgling sound is pretty awful.) MrShizzle253 via YouTube Bonus: A brutal scene from the machete fight in which Rama kills one of the gang members. PT. Merantau Films/XYZ Films/Business Insider
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonHedge fund manager William Ackman of Pershing Square Capital Management smiles during an interview in New York September 27, 2010. JCPenney has reached an agreement with Bill Ackman so Pershing Square can begin to sell its stake in the retailer, according to an 8-K filed with the SEC on Friday. [via CNN Money] From the filing:¬† On August 13, 2013, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the ‚ÄúCompany‚Äù) entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P., PS Management GP, LLC, Pershing Square GP, LLC, William A. Ackman and certain affiliated Pershing Square funds (collectively, the ‚ÄúHolders‚Äù).¬†¬†Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Holders may make up to four requests to the Company to register the sale of the Company‚Äôs common stock beneficially owned by the Holders, subject to the limitations and conditions provided in the Registration Rights Agreement.¬†¬†The Registration Rights Agreement also provides certain piggyback registration rights to the Holders.¬†¬†The registration rights provided in the Registration Rights Agreement terminate when the Holders collectively beneficially own less than 5% of the Company‚Äôs common stock.¬†¬†The Registration Rights Agreement contains customary indemnification provisions. The foregoing description of the Registration Rights Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Registration Rights Agreement which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. A couple weeks ago, Ackman engaged in a public fight with JCPenney's board. He leaked letters to the media that he had written to the board demanding that they replace interim CEO Mike Ullman and that chairman Tom¬†Engibous¬†resign.¬† Ackman, who is JCPenney's top shareholder, also reportedly had threatened to sell his stake if the board didn't replace Ullman. ¬†Pershing Square Capital held more than 39 million shares of JCPenney as of the second quarter ended June 30, according to a 13F regulatory filing. After all the public drama in recent weeks, Ackman was the one who ended up stepping down¬†from the board.¬† Ackman has been betting on a turnaround at the retailer for a few years now. ¬†So far, he has taken a bath on the stock.¬†Since September 28, 2010, the date of Ackman's first SEC filing on JCPenney, the stock has fallen more than 48%.
REUTERS / Ricardo MoraesGlenn Greenwald (left) and his partner David Miranda after Miranda's arrival in Brazil.The domestic partner of Guardian journalist Glenn Greenwald, who reported classified information leaked by former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden, was detained at Heathrow Airport over the weekend and interrogated for 9 hours. UK authorities detained Greenwald's partner, David Miranda, while he was en route from Berlin to Brazil. They held him under an anti-terrorism law, which allows them to detain and question anyone for any reason without stating the cause. Authorities also "confiscated" Miranda's laptop, smartphone, memory sticks, camera, and game consoles, the Guardian reports. Glenn Greenwald confirmed to Business Insider this morning that these items, which included a "WiFi watch," have not been returned. One initial theory about the detainment in the Twittersphere was that UK authorities were trying to hassle and harass Greenwald, who is obviously the bane of secrecy-loving government authorities these days. But this morning, geo-political expert Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia Group suggested that the motive was far more serious.¬†Bremmer thinks it's likely that the U.S. and U.K. authorities are preparing "indictments" against Glenn Greenwald. UK move against @ggreenwald's partner isn't a scare tactic. If they're taking his electronics, US/UK working on indictments. In response to a question from Business Insider, Bremmer clarified that these indictments would be against Greenwald. If the U.S. and U.K. governments care about regaining public support for their surveillance and spying tactics, they would probably be well-advised not to hassle the partners of journalists who report on their activities--or, for that matter, the journalists themselves--without having a very clear and public reason for doing so.¬† This behavior will rally support for those perceived as brave enough to stand up to authority, and it will not endear public opinion to secret government surveillance causes worldwide, some of which some of the public still very much supports. Indicting a journalist, meanwhile, would be an even bigger public-relations disaster.¬†
7:51 am EST - August 19, 2013 By Enis   Emerging market stocks, bonds, and currencies have been at the forefront of risk-off movements so far in 2013. ¬†EEM, the most widely followed emerging market ETF, is down more than 10% in 2013, despite the strong rise in equities in the U.S., Japan, and even Europe. ¬†EMB, an emerging market bond ETF, is down almost 15% in 2013, a huge move for an ETF that has not moved more than 10% in either direction since 2009. But the moves in emerging market currencies are perhaps the most worrying sign for risky assets going forward. ¬†Though U.S. stocks have not been bothered by the move lower in emerging market currencies so far in 2013, history suggests that stocks are at risk of a more significant decline. The link between emerging market currencies and stocks boils down to the tight relationship between risk appetite and the search for yield. ¬†Emerging market currencies offer higher yields than developed market currencies (though that differential is much less in the past year, and likely a major reason for the outflow from emerging markets in 2013). ¬†So when investors globally have their rose-colored glasses on, emerging markets are generally appreciating along with stocks. Here is the chart of the JP Morgan Emerging Market Currency Index over the last 8 years: I&#8217;ve drawn with a red arrow every 5%+ selloff in the index in that period. ¬†They were as follows: In the first 5 cases, the S&amp;P 500 index also fell at least 7.5% as emerging market currencies sold off. ¬†But the relationship has broken down in 2013. ¬†Despite the continued weakness in emerging market currencies, the S&amp;P 500 is only 3% from its all-time highs, and is in fact higher than where it was in early May when the emerging market selloff was initially sparked. The Indian rupee is at an all-time low vs. the U.S. dollar. ¬†The Turkish lira is at an all-time low. ¬†The Brazilian real is down more than 15% in 2013. ¬†The South African rand is down almost 20% in 2013. ¬†These are huge moves, and indicative of a world that is much more jittery than a simple look at U.S. stocks would suggest. In short, ignore the continued weakness in EM currencies at your own risk. ¬†This risk barometer has an admirable track record, and for good intuitive reasons. ¬†U.S. equity investors might be at risk of having ear plugs on, listening to the party track, and ignoring the sound of thunder lurking in the background. 			¬† 			Follow me on Twitter: @EnisTaner 			Email Me
It‚Äôs possible. We know that lots of this year‚Äôs job gains have been for part-time workers as employers respond to Obamacare‚Äôs disincentives to hire full-time employees. The household employment survey shows that three-quarters of the 980,000 increase in jobs during the first seven months of the year represented part-time jobs. Perhaps employers are converting more of their full-time payroll jobs to part-time ones and hiring more part-timers. At the same time, many employees may be scrambling to find another part-time job to supplement their incomes. Presumably, they are getting counted twice (or more) in the payroll employment survey, thus exaggerating the strength of that survey‚Äôs employment gains! Sure enough, payroll employment rose by 1,347,000 since the start of the year, or 367,000 more than household employment. Those extra jobs are probably all part-time ones and reflect the double counting of workers with more than one part-time job in the payroll survey. In the household survey, a worker with more than one part-time job counts as one worker. To repeat, the payroll survey counts jobs, while the household survey counts workers. So the number of jobs is increasing faster than the number of workers--with the former up 192,400 per month on average from January-July, while the latter is up 140,000 per month on average over the same period. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Bonds Agitating Stocks. (1) Staying rational. (2) Neither melt-up nor meltdown for now. (3) Avoiding a melt-up would be good for secular bull story. (4) Has the bull been driven by QE or fundamentals? (5) Back to the old normal for bond yields. (6) From bonds to cash rather than equities. (7) Fed‚Äôs new problem is that rising yields are bad for growth. (8) Are jobless claims too good to be true? (9) Surge in part-time jobs exaggerating payroll gains. (10) What will clueless Fed do next? (11) Bullard‚Äôs baby steps. (12) Time to sell the bull market‚Äôs leaders? (More for subscribers.)
Wikimedia CommonsChina's richest man is now Wang Jianlin, according to Bloomberg's team of billionaire hunters. He's the chairman of the Dalian Wanda Group† ó a conglomerate that holds shopping centers, five star hotels, movie theaters, and more ó† and worth an estimated $14.2 billion. Wang was boosted to the number one spot when a June 30th filing revealed the worth of his company's retail and entertainment businesses. A few things to know about Wang ó he's 58, from western China near the border with Tibet, comes from a military family, and is known for singing Tibetan and Mongolian folk songs at meetings. That sounds very Buffett-like... To get the full break down of Wang's wealth, head to Bloomberg&gt;

MovieClips / YouTubeDumb & DumberThere continues to be two schools of thought on what's been driving the global financial markets. One school believes that it has been all about global central banks, who have caused massive distortions by flooding the markets with cash, inflating the bond and stock markets. The other school believes central banks have played a more indirect roll. They believe markets have been driven largely by economic fundamentals. In the U.S., easy monetary policy from the Fed has helped stimulate the economy, which in turn has encourage investors to fuel the rally in stocks. In a new note to clients, Morgan Stanley's Hans Redeker reminds us that his firm is strictly in the former camp. Itís the Fed, stupid. Core equity markets eased last week. Worryingly, in the US the ratio of shares falling below their 200-day MA relative to those trading above the 200- day MA has fallen rapidly, suggesting that the share market is fading. Rising bond yields accompanied by simultaneously falling equity prices is a rare event, but should be expected when the Fed starts reducing its liquidity injections in September. The Fedís QE policy, in place since March 2009, first aims to increase the asset to liability ratio in the economy in order to ease credit restrictions via asset valuations, and second aims to initiate portfolio shifts into higher-yielding asset classes. Now, as the Fed signals a shift in its approach, asset markets have to price in a higher risk profile. The S&amp;P 500 fell last week, closing Friday at 1,655. Just two weeks ago, it closed at an all-time high of 1,709.
ScreenshotU.S. bank boss Jamie Dimon.News crossed this weekend that U.S. bank JP Morgan is being investigated by U.S. regulators for hiring well-connected people in China. Specifically, the bank is said to be under investigation for hiring two bankers whose fathers ran big Chinese companies that later hired JP Morgan for several assignments. So that's against the rules now? Hiring well-connected people? And that's what U.S. regulators are spending their time doing--investigating whether J.P. Morgan is hiring well-connected people in China? (I don't mean to sound naive here: Obviously, hiring the children of powerful business executives can provide a relationship-driven company with a competitive edge. But companies hire the children of powerful executives all the time, all over the world. And they also hire people who have excellent industry and government relationships from childhood, college, business school, and professional life, all of which are extremely useful. So where do you draw the line?¬†Will US banks be investigated when they hire Tim Geithner, Ben Bernanke, Larry Summers, et al?)
flickr/2day929Oil prices have been moving up in recent weeks, largely owing to geopolitical volatility and supply disruptions. "The disruptions in Libyan oil supplies have lasted far longer than we initially thought with no near-term resolution in sight, which was further complicated by the involvement of the military late last week," said Goldman Sachs' Jeff Currie in a new note to clients. "Combined with the ongoing problems in Iraq which we see extending into the autumn, OPEC outages since the beginning of the summer have taken 33 million barrels off the market, which was further exacerbated by a 32 million barrel downward revision to total OECD petroleum inventories by the IEA." "In our view, these developments will likely lend support to Brent prices around the $115.00/bbl level in the very near term," he said. Brent oil is current trading near $110 per barrel. Fortunately, there are plenty of supply sources that should prevent oil prices from getting too out of control. "[P]rices too far above that are unlikely as the [Strategic Petroleum Reserve] acts as significant spare capacity," Currie added. "Not only has the shale revolution in the US freed up these supplies, but given the importance of the current economic recovery, governments will be quick to temper any price spike with strategic reserves." In the note, Currie¬†raised his 3- and 6-month Brent price forecasts to $110 and $108, respectively, from $105. His 12-month target continues to be $105. Here's a historical chart of Brent oil via Investing.com. Investing.com
Wikimedia CommonsJ.P. Morgan boss Jamie Dimon.(Reuters) - U.S. authorities have opened an investigation into whether JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co hired the children of powerful Chinese officials to help it win business in China, according to the New York Times. Investment banks have a long history of employing the children of China's politically connected. While close ties to top government officials is a boon to any banking franchise across the world, it's especially beneficial in China, where relationships and personal connections play a critical role in business decisions. The approval process for a stock offering in China, for example, is one area that has come under criticism inside and outside the country for being opaque and prone to cronyism. For JPMorgan, the China hiring probe comes while the bank is under intense scrutiny following the $6 billion trading loss it suffered in the "London whale" derivatives scandal. Federal prosecutors on Wednesday brought criminal charges against two former JPMorgan traders - Javier Martin-Artajo and Julien Grout - accusing the pair of deliberately understating losses on the trades on the bank's books. A report posted in the Times' online Saturday edition cited a confidential U.S. government document as its source for the story on the China hiring probe. The Times said the probe is a civil investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission's anti-bribery unit. The Times said JPMorgan hired Tang Xiaoning, the son of Tang Shuangning, a former Chinese banking regulator. Tang Xiaoning is now the chairman of the China Everbright Group, a state-controlled financial conglomerate. After the son joined JPMorgan, the bank secured several important assignments from the Chinese conglomerate, including advising a subsidiary of the company on a stock offering, the Times reported. The Hong Kong office of JPMorgan also hired Zhang Xixi, the daughter of a now-disgraced Chinese railway official, and went on to help advise his company, which builds railways for the Chinese government, on its plans to become a public company, the Times said. A spokesmen for the SEC could not be reached immediately by Reuters for comment. Zhang and Tang both have left JPMorgan, the newspaper said. JPMorgan made reference in its 10-Q quarterly filing this month to the inquiry by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. "We publicly disclosed this matter in our 10-Q filing last week and are fully cooperating with regulators," Marie Cheung, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for the bank, said on Sunday. The practice of hiring politically-connected bankers in China was widespread in the early to mid 2000's, when Wall Street firms engaged in so-called 'elephant hunting', a term used to describe the chasing of mandates to manage the multi-billion dollar stock offerings of the country's big state-owned enterprises. One of the more well known China bankers from that era is Margaret Ren, the daughter-in-law of former Chinese Premier Zhao Ziyang, who has worked at several banks. Most major investment banks have employed a politically connected Chinese banker, whether a high level professional such as Ren or a college age associate, at some stage in the last decade. Many senior investment bankers in China now feel that the heyday for such underwriting contracts has passed, with far fewer jumbo state-owned company listings happening. But banks and private equity firms alike still prize connections to top decision makers. "It's been happening for the past 20 years," said Ronald Wan, Chair Professor of Renmin University of China and a former banker, referring to the hiring of politically connected Chinese bankers. The key to the JPMorgan probe, he said, was whether these hirings had any special bonus attached or any actual corruption that could be traced. Wan added that such hiring happens all across the world, though in China, connections to the right people who know the system is especially useful. Battushig Batbold, the son of Mongolia's Prime Minister, has been an employee of Morgan Stanley, the Wall Street Journal reported in 2011. JPMorgan said in its filing that it had received "a request from the SEC Division of Enforcement seeking information and documents relating to, among other matters, the firm's employment of certain former employees in Hong Kong and its business relationships with certain clients." The newspaper report stressed that the government document did not definitively link JPMorgan's hiring practices to its ability to win business. It also said there had been no suggestion that the employees hired by the bank were unqualified and said JPMorgan, although under investigation, had not been accused of any wrongdoing. (Reporting by Tom Brown, Ian Simpson, Lawrence White and Michael Flaherty; Editing by Bill Trott and Raju Gopalakrishnan)
REUTERS/ Jim YoungBull in an interest-rate shop?WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Barring another financial crisis or slide back into recession, the next head of the Federal Reserve is likely to oversee a gradual normalization of monetary policy. But that pace, including the first interest rate hike, might be somewhat quicker under former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers than under current Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen, the two top contenders for the job, if their own comments are any guide. Moreover, a Summers-led Fed would appear less likely to extend or expand the use of the extraordinary measures that the central bank has undertaken during the tenure of current chairman Ben Bernanke, whose term expires in January. The distinction between Summers and Yellen is perhaps best illustrated by remarks they delivered at separate events in April. Yellen, a strong supporter of Bernanke's policies, in a speech to business editors in Washington, exhorted the Fed to keep its focus on efforts to foster a lower unemployment rate, even if it comes at a cost of stronger-than-desired inflation. By contrast, Summers, in a separate, closed event in California later that month, raised doubts that the unemployment rate could drop all that much lower without kindling unwanted levels of inflation. He also was skeptical about how effective the Fed's massive bond buying program, known as quantitative easing, has been in promoting economic growth. CONTINUITY "Both Yellen and Summers are unlikely to commit the mistake of premature policy tightening, and that risk is probably somewhat lower with Yellen than Summers," said Michael Feroli, an economist with JP Morgan in New York. That said, commitments the Fed has already undertaken make quick changes unlikely whoever gets the job, as St. Louis Fed President James Bullard noted on Thursday. "I would expect a lot of continuity in policy, and I think any new person coming in would want that continuity. They don't want to come in and really rock the boat a lot. So I would expect a smooth transition," Bullard said in Louisville. But slight differences in how the new Fed chair views policy could matter a great deal if the economy fails to recover as expected, or if there is a debate about how long to hold interest rates near zero once unemployment has fallen further. The Bernanke-led Fed has already committed to keeping rates ultra-easy until unemployment hits 6.5 percent, and at least one official advocates lowering this forward guidance to 5.5 percent in order to hold down borrowing costs. Summers might be less inclined to back such a move if the news on the economy continued to be mixed. Yellen's strong support for the importance of driving down long-term unemployment, even if that meant inflation rising a bit, could be more open to such an aggressive move. She has also laid out a so-called 'optimal policy path' that would permit a bit more inflation than the Fed's 2 percent goal in order to push down long-term unemployment, which she views as even more damaging to the nation's economic health. As a result, there is a broad body of public written and spoken commentary in which she has articulated an approach which would not diverge much from the path already laid out by Bernanke, and might even be more dovish. SUMMERS NO HAWK In contrast, most of Summers' recent comments have been on fiscal policy, where his advocacy for government intervention might infer a readiness to maintain Fed stimulus. But he has talked about monetary policy on at least two occasions in the last year, and these remarks make clear he is no hawk in the sense of the fierce Fed critics who blame the central bank's dramatic action for stoking a looming inflation. Indeed, he argued in favor of additional quantitative easing in a Reuters opinion piece published on June 3, 2012. "Many in both the U.S. and Europe are arguing for further quantitative easing to bring down longer-term interest rates. This may be appropriate given that there is a much greater danger from policy inaction to current economic weakness than of overreacting," he wrote. And in his most comprehensive monetary policy remarks, at an April conference in Santa Monica, California, hosted by Drobny Global Advisors, he explicitly played down the dangers of inflation. SKEPTIC But he also voiced reservations about the benefits of further aggressive bond purchases, saying that "QE in my view is less efficacious for the real economy than most people suppose," according to a transcript of his comments obtained by Reuters. That view could be significant if the economy fails to recover. The Fed expects to scale back bond buying later this year and end the program by mid-2014. It may want to consider delaying that wind-down, or even increasing purchases from a current $85 billion monthly pace, if growth disappoints. A Summers' Fed might resist extending the program from worry it will not have much benefit, but carries mounting costs, which he hinted at the April conference by pointing to signs that emerging market credit "is starting to look a little frothy." That market subsequently has cooled substantially due to signals the Fed is nearing the point of reducing its purchases. Furthermore, he has also signaled a gloomy view on how fast the economy can expand in the future without overheating, noting that the natural rate of unemployment may have risen and its potential rate of growth may have declined. "To the extent that view is accepted, it should operate in the direction of leading one to expect the beginning of the tightening phase to happen sooner than is now supposed by many," Summers told the invitation-only event in Santa Monica. That hint of doubt in his mind about how much slack might be left in the economy if the jobless rate reached 6.5 percent could translate into a readiness to raise interest rates faster once the threshold is breached. "He might be more likely than Yellen to support raising the funds rate target soon after the 6.5 percent threshold is met," said Laurence Meyer at Macroeconomic Advisers. "We suspect that Summers might be inclined to raise rates more quickly than Yellen after the first rate hike," the former Fed governor wrote in a client note. (Reporting by Alister Bull; Editing by Leslie Gevirtz)
Flickr/Gord McKennaGrand Teton National Park, Jackson, WyomingAugust is a popular month for taking a vacation. Even the global central bankers who'll flock to this week's Kansas City Fed symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming are essentially on a vacation. Legend has it that the Jackson Hole conference's origins were tied to former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker's love for fly-fishing. "The Jackson Hole conference runs from Thursday night to Saturday," noted the economics team at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. "While Chairman Bernanke is not speaking at the conference there will be some interesting academic papers" "The data docket in the week ahead is light, but there are two main events worth noting: the minutes of the July FOMC meeting (Wednesday) and initial jobless claims for the August employment survey week (Thursday)," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary The S&amp;P 500 fell last week, closing Friday at 1,655. Just two weeks ago, it closed at an all-time high of 1,709. "Let‚Äôs play contrarian, big time, and posit that the selloff over the past few days is meaningful, for it signals a return to something capital markets thought was dead: fundamentals," said ConvergEx Group's Nick Colas. "How many times have you heard over the last few years that U.S. stocks were the best show in town because the Federal Reserve was pushing liquidity into the system? OK ‚Äì that overarching narrative is coming to an end with talk of ‚ÄòTapering‚Äô in September. Yes, I know they Fed isn‚Äôt abandoning the financial system just yet. But like so many Americans, their job in supporting capital markets will be shifting to a part-time engagement. "
The Today ShowNEW YORK (Reuters) - Celebrity trainer Bob Harper, of the weight-loss TV show "The Biggest Loser," has built a career putting very obese people through some grueling fitness paces but if he's learned anything from the experience, it's that diet trumps exercise every time. The Los Angeles-based trainer, who was born on a cattle farm in Tennessee and arrived in California some 20 years ago, said gone are the days when he believed it was possible to just exercise the pounds away. "It is all about your diet," Harper, 48, said during a break from filming Season 15 of the long-running U.S. show. "I used to think a long time ago that you can beat everything you eat out of you and it's just absolutely not the case." Harper has spun his TV fame improving the fitness of people who are 100 pounds (45 kg) or more overweight into an empire with DVD workouts and the best-selling book "The Skinny Rules," which offers tips to drop excess weight. He said if the ëSkinny' of his book titles and fitness DVDs is meant tongue-in-cheek, it is also the word that his morbidly obese clients attach to most. "People say, 'Shouldn't I be fit? Shouldn't I be healthy?', and I say ëYes, absolutely. But what I always hear from my contestants on the show is, 'I just want to get skinny.'" In addition to promoting a healthy diet, a big part of his exercise routine includes lunges and other core-strengthening moves to burn enough fat to let the inner six-pack shine through. Harper said the workout is aimed at getting the heart rate up because that's when people are going to be able to burn fat and when fat is burned off, the abdominal muscles are exposed. FAN OF CROSSFIT He also adheres to the no-frills strength and condition program called Crossfit, which is a series of timed, ever- changing physical challenges that he says are suitable for everyone. "I'm working with people who are 500 pounds (227 kg) and doing Crossfit on a regular basis," said Harper, who described the approximately 20-minute workout as well-balanced. "To me Crossfit just completely makes sense (as long as) you work at your level doing the things you can do with proper coaching," he explained. But Dr. Mark Kelly, an exercise physiologist at the American Council on Exercise, said that even with supervision, Crossfit can be risky if the fitness groundwork isn't in place. "Crossfit has very ballistic training. You're asking people to move fast through a large range of motion. Even with coaching, the foundation of stability, mobility and psychomotor skill has to be laid (first)," he said. Kelly agrees that diet is the main factor that can lower weight, but it's exercise, he adds, that allows that lower weight to stick. He cited the National Weight Control Registry, a research study that includes people 18 years or older who have lost at least 13.6 kg (30 lb) of weight and kept it off for at least one year. Ninety percent of those in the study exercise regularly. "They're the biggest losers across the nation," Kelly said. "And the No. 1 thing they did was exercise on a regular basis. Many simply through walking." Harper said he values working with people who have gotten far off the diet and fitness track more than the celebrity status conferred upon him by reality TV. "Of course with everyone being on a television show, from people working on fishing boats to people being interior designers, you get this platform," he said. "But I think for me, celebrity trainer is not who I am." He is, he said, someone who has found what he loves to do. "When you find your passion, it makes for a good life." (Editing by Patricia Reaney and Eric Walsh)
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartA helicopter tanker drops fire retardant near a home at the Beaver Creek wildfire outside Ketchum, Idaho August 18, 2013. Firefighters readied for a massive ground and air attack on Sunday against a wildfire in central Idaho that has forced the evacuation of some 2,250 homes and threatens the posh Sun Valley ski resort.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
The big story today is the weakness in emerging markets, particularly Indonesia, Thailand, and India, which has been in a special category of pain this year. One pain point for emerging markets has been the big whoosh of foreign money away from these markets. As the economy has improved in the US (and Europe) and interest rates have gone up, that's lessened demand for emerging market assets, including government debt. To see this in incredibly stark form, one needs only look at the yield on Indian 10-year bonds. Check out the surge in yields since the spring. Bloomberg
A popular conception about Abenomics ‚Äî Japan's new drive for economic recovery ‚Äî is that it's all about weakening the yen and boosting exporters. But this really isn't the play at all. The real idea is to reduce real interest rates, so as to stimulate domestic demand, unlocking dormant investment and consumption spending. Remember, in deflation, it makes sense to horde cash, because prices will be lower tomorrow, potentially leading to a deflationary/recessionary spiral. Abenomics seeks to break this, stoking inflation, and creating an encouragement to spend and invest today. A quick look at the Japanese trade picture shows that improving the economy via exports is not the play. Japan's trade deficit just came in surprisingly high. From Nomura: Japan's nominal exports in July rose 12.2% y-y and nominal imports were up 19.6%. Market consensus forecasts (Bloomberg survey medians) had called for 12.8% growth in nominal exports and 16.0% growth in nominal imports. The trade deficit came to ¬•1,024.0bn, larger than the consensus forecast of ¬•773.5bn. On a seasonally adjusted basis, the deficit was ¬•994.0bn, again wider than the consensus forecast of ¬•741.3bn and also larger than the June deficit of ¬•663.2bn. There had been signs from the beginning of 2013 that the trade deficit would stop expanding and start contracting, but the data have continued to fluctuate and we have yet to see any clear trend of contraction. Nomura
Earlier we mentioned the weakness in India, but if you want to see some real carnage today, check out Indonesia. The Jakarta market is down over 5%. Jakarta Stock Exchange Composite Index, via Bloomberg Jakarta What's going on in Jakarta today is redolent of what's been happening across the emerging world all year. There's been violent currency weakness (perhaps in part to higher US interest rates leading to a stronger US dollar) and also a deteriorating trade situation
REUTERS/Toru HanaiDan Greenhaust (@danBTIG on Twitter) previews the week ahead. He says it all comes down to two big things: retail earnings and the Fed, the latter of which comes in two parts: The Fed Minutes and the Jackson Hole conference, which starts Thursday. While Bernanke isn't appearing at Jackson Hole, Yellen will be on a panel: This coming week, the attention should be squarely focused in two areas; consumer earnings and the Federal Reserve. With respect to earnings, companies such as ARO and AEO have taken a real beating of late after suggesting all was not well (add TUMI and COH in this group). While a number of consumer companies such as KORS and FNP appear to be firing on all cylinders, negative sentiment has grown (discretionary is the third worst performer over the last two weeks). Earnings from URBN, TJX, HD, TGT, buy rated JCP and DKS should help color in this picture (special attention will be paid to ANF given its proximity to ARO and AEO).† On the Federal Reserve, the Jackson Hole summit shouldnít make too much news although expect Janet Yellen to make a play for the Chairmanship with a ìfriendlyî speech. Also this week, the minutes from the most recent Fed meeting will be released. If asset purchases really are going to slow in September, then a more robust discussion of how this would happen surely took place. Expect some headlines to emerge upon their release.
Not everything is turning the corner in Spain. There are some signs of improvement in Spain, but this isn't one of them - banks' bad loan ratio a new record 11.6% in June vs 11.1% in May.
ShutterstockIt is an ugly day for some major emerging markets today. The worst of the bunch is Indonesia, where the Jakarta market fell 5.6%. India's SENSEX has fallen 1.7%, which comes after a major decline on Friday. Both countries are seeing weakening currencies and deteriorating trade pictures, and are part of a big trend we've seen all year of emerging markets weakness. Thailand also had a bad session, with the SET index losing 2.6%. The country saw a big GDP whiff. Morgan Stanley has the call: 2Q13 GDP further moderated to +2.8%YoY (vs an upwardly revised +5.4%YoY in 1Q13). This is in line with MS' tracking estimate of +2.8%YoY but below consensus' expectations of +3.3%YoY. On a QoQ sa sequential basis, the economy fell for the second consecutive quarter at -0.3%QoQ (vs an upwardly revised -1.7%QoQ in 1Q13), implying that the economy entered into technical recession in 1H13.¬† 1H13 stands at +4.1%YoY and NESDB revised downwards their 2013 GDP growth range from 4.2% - 5.2% to 3.8% - 4.3%. Meanwhile, Europe is modestly negative, and US futures are flat.
Gold is showing signs of life, rallying 5% last week after tumbling by over 20% since the beginning of the year. For whatever reason, people are buying. One of the most common criticisms against gold is that it serves no productive purpose. It has limited industrial applications and it doesn't pay any dividends. Gold bulls often argue that gold serves as a hedge against currency devaluation. Many go as far as to say that "gold is money." However, everyone knows you can't go to the grocery store and expect them to sell you milk for gold shavings. And therefore gold is certainly not money. Dylan Grice, an analyst formerly with Societe Generale, argues that this is a misunderstanding of gold and money. In a commentary for the July issue of the Edelweiss Journal, Grice articulates the case for gold by addressing the two main criticisms: gold is not productive and gold is not money. Let us leave you with a final thought on the attractiveness of gold at this moment in time. Not only is it that rare thing in todayís marketsówidely hatedóbut it is poorly understood. We frequently hear that it has ìno use,î unlike other commodities like oil, grain or copper. Yet this betrays a fundamental ignorance of the importance of exchange in society, and the role money plays in the facilitation of that exchange. In the long history of our species, we arenít aware of any example of a society which didnít organize around some kind of money. As long as there are people, there will be exchange, and therefore a social need for money. Always. And gold is money. Thatís not to say itís legal tender. You canít use it to buy goods and services directly. But inhabitants of Norway canít use Japanese Yen to buy things either. Does that mean Yen isnít money? In effect, gold is everyoneís foreign exchange. Itís the original ìhard currency.î So to say that gold has ìno useî is like saying money has ìno use.î Which isnít correct. One might as well say language has ìno use.î Both are fundamental to how societies organize and communicate. What people mean, we think, is that gold has no industrial use. But without money there would be no industry. Therefore, without money there would be no demand for oil, copper, zinc or the other raw materials many prefer on the grounds of ìhaving use.î The monetary goes before the industrial, and so money has an ìintrinsic valueî to society which few other things do. Yet money is so ubiquitous that it is taken for granted. It is underappreciated and undervalued. Money is also the primary toy of todayís nai®ve interventionists. And being what they are, they will inevitably play with it until they break it. Historically, people have understood moneyís intrinsic value when they have been forced to, when alternative monies have been rendered unfit for purpose by persistent debasement. Negative real returns to cash, the inflation in various equity and credit markets, and investorsí ìreaching for yieldî suggest moneyís transition from usable to unusable is already underway, if in a subtle and small way (for now). And if debasement to date has not dented debt ratios even slightly, the debasement of tomorrow will. Today, we see the intrinsic value of gold. And although we canít know when, we think other will soon be forced to too. So, that's what the gold bugs mean when they say gold is money.
