TED TalksFollowing Friday's mediocre US GDP report, concerns are rising that the US economy is in danger of backsliding. Europe, meanwhile, is in depression, and there are major concerns that China is sputtering out. A bunch of big questions should be answered this week, as we get an avalanche of economic data. The first week of any month is always big, and so this Wednesday (May 1) through Friday will be jam packed with fresh ISM reports (for Korea, China, Europe, and the US), initial jobless claims, and of course the big Non-Farm Payrolls report on Friday. Monday and Tuesday will also be big, as we get Personal Income and Spending, Chicago PMI, Case-Shiller, and Consumer Confidence. Other big events this week include auto sales, the ADP jobs report, and FOMC decision, productivity, the trade balance, and construction spending. By the end of Friday we should know a lot more about the economy. It should be a lot of fun, and we'll be covering all of it live.
The week has begun, and things are very quiet. Japan is closed. The markets that are open are down, but just barely. U.S. futures are a hair lower. And here's Korea off 0.1%. image While it's quiet right now, it should be a very big week, especially Wednesday through Friday when we'll get tons of data.
NBCHere is the latest datapoint in a growing trend that support for "austerity" is crumbling. Ben White and Tarini Pariti at Politico¬†¬†have a good story on how Democrats are increasingly comfortable saying that austerity is pointless and that you can't fix the deficit by focusing on spending. ... aided by a pile of recent data suggesting the deficit is already shrinking significantly and current spending cuts are slowing the economy, more Democrats such as Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine and Maryland Rep. Chris Van Hollen are coming around to the point of view that fiscal austerity, in all its forms, is more the problem than the solution. This group got a huge boost this month with the very public demolition of a sacred text of the austerity movement, the 2010 paper by a pair of Harvard professors arguing that once debt exceeds 90 percent of a country‚Äôs gross domestic product, it crushes economic growth. Turns out that‚Äôs not what the research really showed. The original findings were skewed by a spreadsheet error, among other mistakes, and it‚Äôs helping shift the manner in which even middle-of-the-road Democrats talk about debt and deficits. ‚ÄúTrying to just land on the debt too quickly would really harm the economy; I‚Äôm convinced of that,‚Äù Kaine, hardly a wild-eyed liberal, said in an interview. ‚ÄúJobs and growth should be No. 1. Economic growth is the best anti-deficit strategy.‚Äù You might wonder what, exactly, is the big deal here. After all, Democrats haven't been the ones pushing for spending cuts. Republicans have. But most of the time, Democrats have ceded the general point to Republicans that debt is a major problem, and that in some form or another, fiscal policy should focus on reducing that debt. The realization that growth is how you close the deficit and that austerity (because it saps growth) is counterproductive allows Democrats to form a counter-argument that doesn't cede to the GOP's premise. And that in itself is an important change in the debate. Make no mistake that the data supports this concept. One of our favorite charts shows the unemployment rate vs. the deficit as a percentage of GDP. For decades, the unemployment rate has been a great predictor of where the deficit is.  Between the Reinhart/Rogoff Excel debacle, and the crappy growth in countries that are focused on "fiscal consolidation" (The Eurozone, the U.K., and to some extent the U.S.), it's just getting harder and harder for anyone to say with a straight face that the priority should be spending cuts.
Fantastic chart and data here from Citi Research showing the issuance of various securities over the last 10 years in the Eurozone, US and Japan. †Itís interesting to note the surge in treasuries that has occurred since the collapse in the GSEs and the so-called AAA bubble in real estate. †Itís also interesting to note the decline in net issuance. †In other words, the supply of asset issuance continues to run at a level well below pre-crisis levels. †That might explain at least some of the broad upward pressure on assets in general. Hereís more excellent commentary from Citi: ìThe blue/grey bars quantify the net issuance of securities across broad asset classes on a rolling 4-quarter basis in the Eurozone, the US and in Japan. The orange bars capture the effects of central bank interventions. The red line is the net amount of issuance left after those†interventions ñ in other words, it is a proxy for the change in the size of the universe of securities that investors can buy. As you would expect, the chart shows a surge in net government debt issuance in 2009-10 as fiscal deficits ballooned. These have fallen back over the last couple of years but remain significantly higher than before the crisis. The surge in corporate issuance of bonds since 2007 is perhaps less intuitive, considering that companies have generally run their balance sheets very†conservatively, cutting capex and M&amp;A. However, a big shift from loan to bond†funding has more than compensated for that. Net equity issuance remains a†relatively small component. There was a brief flurry of equity issuance in 2009-10, but as leverage has come down corporates have reverted to the more normal pattern of retiring shares on a net basis. The biggest shift has been the drop in net issuance from financials and GSEs (like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac). Having dominated securities markets before the crisis, their net issuance has dwindled to next to nothing in recent years. Adding up the bars (still ignoring CB interventions in orange) shows that the growth in the investible universe has slowed from around $3.5-4tn annually before the crisis, to less than $2.5tn over the last couple of years. In other words, the rate of expansion of financial securities has slowed by more than $1tn. Thatís a pretty penny, when you think about it. When the effect of central bank interventions (quantitative easing and LTROs3) in orange is subtracted, the reduction in the supply of new assets available to financial investors becomes even more dramatic: Apart from a brief period in H1 2011 (where markets incidentally did not perform particularly well), the investible universe of financial assets has grown by less than $2tr per year over the last three years ñ half the run-rate that we were used to. In fact, in some quarters net issuance of securities been virtually zero. †We think this ësupply effectí on financial markets of central bank interventions is widely underestimated.î Citi
In the rear view window, Q1 GDP was initially reported at +2.5% annualized. Once again, private growth was depressed by government austerity. March monthly data included a sharp decline in durable goods orders, which are now basically flat for a full year. New home sales increased slightly; existing home sales declined slightly. The University of Michigan confidence index increased in the second half of April, but is down month over month.  Let's start this week's look at the high frequency weekly indicators by looking at transports and consumer spending, which are the most significant changes: Transport Railroad transport from the AAR ¬† ¬† ¬† Shipping transport ¬† Rail transport went negative for the second time in a month, even excluding coal. This simply has to be regarded as a real warning of the beginning of a slump. ¬†The Harpex index remains slightly off its 3 year low of 352, and the Baltic Dry Index remains above its recent low. Consumer spending ¬† ¬† Gallup's YoY comparisons have been very positive since last December. They got less positive in the early part of April, but have rebounded again. ¬†The ICSC varied between +1.5% and +4.5% YoY in 2012. In the last month or so it has been near or even below the bottom of this range. The JR report this week was back in the lower part of its typical YoY range for the last year. Employment metrics Initial jobless claims ¬† American Staffing AssociationIndex Initial claims remain in their new lower range of between 330,000 to 375,000 this year. As in the past two springs, we now seem to be moving sideways in the new range. ¬†The ASA is still running slightly below 2007, and slightly ahead of last year, although the comparison is continuing to deteriorate on a YoY basis. Daily Treasury Statement tax withholding ¬† These are still relatively good YoY comparisons compared with the last three months. While my best estimate is that collections should be up 15% due to the payroll tax increases that took effect on January 1, since that may not be accurate, now that we have enough data from this year I am making comparisons with earlier this year, and those comparisons did improve in April, although not so much this week. Housing metrics Housing prices Housing prices bottomed at the end of November 2011 on Housing Tracker, and averaged an increase of +2.0% to +2.5% YoY during 2012. This week's YoY increase ties the record increase in March this year.  Real estate loans, from the FRB H8 report: ¬† ¬† Loans turned up at the end of 2011 and averaged about 1% gains YoY through most of 2012. ¬†In the last two months the comparisons have softened significantly.  Mortgage applications from the Mortgage Bankers Association: ¬† ¬† Purchase applications had been going sideways for 2 years. In the last three months they have finally broken out of that range slightly to the upside, and this week saw the highest number in almost 3 years. ¬†Refinancing applications were very high for most of last year with record low mortgage rates, but have decreased slightly recently. Interest rates and credit spreads ¬† ¬† Interest rates for corporate bonds have generally been falling since being just above 6% two years ago in January 2011, hitting a low of 4.46% in November 2012. ¬†Treasuries have fallen from about 2% in late 2011 to a low of 1.47% in July 2012. Spreads have varied between a high over 3.4% in June 2011 to a low under 2.75% in October 2012. ¬†The ¬†last several months saw a marked increase in rates and credit spreads have widening, followed by a positive reversal in the last several weeks. Money supply M1 ¬† ¬† M2 ¬† ¬† Real M1 made a YoY high of about 20% in January 2012 and has generally been easing off since. ¬†This week's YoY reading remained above a new low set two months ago. ¬†Real M2 also made a YoY high of about 10.5% in January 2012. ¬†Its subsequent low was 4.5% in August 2012. It has increased slightly in the last month. Oil prices and usage ¬† ¬† The price of a gallon of gas has declined sharply since the end of February, and is down about 10% YoY. The 4 week average for gas usage remained negative after nine weeks in a row of being positive YoY. Bank lending rates ¬† The TED spread recently increased slightly off its 18 month+ low. ¬†LIBOR remained at its new 52 week low and is close to a 3 year low. JoC ECRI Commodity prices ¬† The weekly indicators have shown evidence that the economy was beginning to soften starting from the first week of February, and the high frequency indicators became more neutral in the weeks since then. After a two week whipsaw, last week we returned to the prior pattern of generally very mildly positive data. That softened even further this week.  The most significant indicator this week was the negative comparisons from rail loadings, even excluding coal. This was simply a very poor week, and raises a red flag. Temporary jobs, while still positive, are showing deteriorating comparisons YoY. Consumer spending as measured by the ICSC and Johnson Redbook were also quite weak. Gallup consumer spending did remain strongly positive, however.  The positives include housing prices and mortgage applications, gas prices lower than one or two years ago, an improvement in initial jobless claims, and money supply remaining positive. Credit spreads and corporate bond rates also improved.  Basically neutral indicators include shipping rates and overnight banking loans, which haven't budged, and commodities.  Tax withholding remains a question mark. It is negative after my best estimated adjustment, but relative to the last few months, this past week was relatively good.  This remains the same lukewarmly positive data we have seen since the beginning of this year, but rails and consumer spending as measured by same store sales have to be a concern that payroll tax hikes and the Sequester, as well as global weakness, are finally taking a toll. Aside from next Friday's employment report, I will be especially watching the personal savings rate (have consumers exhausted their savings?) and auto sales (will they remain below last November's peak?) in the coming week.  Have a nice weekend.
Analysts increasingly expect the European Central Bank (ECB) to cut its target interest rate when it meets later this week, particularly if inflation data continues to show prices falling across the euro area. Not only is Greece in its sixth year of recession, but even almighty Germany is beginning to show signs of weakness. Time to call in the big, inflation-tempting guns and cut rates! Bad news: that might do absolutely nothing (or at least very little). At their heart, rate cuts are supposed to lower the rate at which banks can borrow. If banks can borrow more cheaply, they can bring down lending rates to their customers, individuals and small businesses. Quartz Turns out things just donít work like that anymore, even in one of the euro areaís strongest economies: the Netherlands. Reader and investment strategist Lukaas Daalder points us to the chart above, published recently by the Dutch central bank (DNB). Real interest rates have fallen since 2011 as the ECB made rate cuts (the black line), from about 3% to just under 1%. But interest rates by businesses and homeowners have barely budged in that time (green and blue lines), seeing only about half of the cut in real interest rates. So the ECBís actions arenít really translating to looser credit for business owners and the common man. It looks like the advantages offered by looser credit are being completely eaten up by the banks (this is that pink shaded area in the chart). Credit default swaps (CDS) are insurance policies against default; when itís more likely that an entity will go bust, the cost of the insurance rises. †The ìCDS premium [on borrowing]î here estimates the average price the four largest Dutch banks have to pay to fund themselvesóabout 1% in the latest dataówhich has risen dramatically since the financial crisis and continued to rise. So even as the ECB has brought interest rates down, creditorsí wariness about lending to the banks means that only about half the effect of lower interest rates is is actually getting through to the Dutch consumer. The Dutch central bank writes: The low risk-free interest rates are currently only partially working their way through to the funding costs of Dutch businesses and households. In the years before the credit crisis, Dutch banks were able to raise finance at around the risk-free interest rate, but since the crisis the risk premium demanded by investors for market funding has increased and become more volatile. This pushes up the funding costs for banks and makes them more vulnerable to refinancing risk than in the past. This can prompt banks to restrict lending by imposing higher interest rates on new loans. This isnít the way monetary policy is supposed to work, but itís something we might want to get used to in an age of ultra-low interest rates. In the US, loose credit has made an impact on borrowing rates for mortgages and businesses, but still-uncertain banks so dramatically hiked credit standards for lending that it was difficult for many people and small businesses to get access to credit. Only recently has the housing market began to pick up steam. Here, continuing investor uncertainty about the health of European banks indicates that the old rules donít apply, and that the ECB may have to pull something crazy out of its sleeve if it actually wants to revitalize the European economy. Click here to sign up for the Quartz Daily Brief and start your day with the latest intelligence on the new global economy. More from Quartz
Wikimedia Commons"The South Sea Bubble" by Edward Matthew WardBuilding on a long tradition of catastrophic financial market crashes, the economic meltdown caused by the bursting of the housing bubble in 2008 is only the latest in a long line of epic stock market fails. In fact, nearly 300 years ago unscrupulous players, political cronies and laissez-faire government combined to create a ìtoo big to failî company, and then stood around helpless when it did. This is the story of the South Sea Company Bubble. Early years By 1710, Englandís finances were a fright. Different government departments arranged their own loans and expended money with little financial oversight. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, Robert Harley, convinced Parliament to look into straightening out this mess. One of the first steps they took was to reconsider their commitment to allowing the Bank of England to be the sole manager of the countryís loans. At the time, the Bank of England was attempting to finance Britainís soldiers through sales of lottery shares, but the response was lukewarm. Harley granted permission for a different private enterprise, the Hollow Sword Blade Company, to conduct a lottery; its marketing was so successful that soon the Sword Blade Company was conducting lotteries regularly on behalf of the government. Near the end of the War of Spanish Succession, England had about £10 million of debt it needed to finance and turned back to some of the geniuses from the Sword Blade group. They formed the†Governor and Company of the Merchants of Great Britain, Trading to the South Seas and Other Parts of America, and for the Encouragement of Fishing†(South Sea Company, for short) in 1711. In return for 6% interest, the South Sea Company would buy Englandís outstanding debt in exchange for shares in the company. Investors were lured into the plan, not only by the prospect of sharing in the interest, but in the profits of the company as well. In addition to financing government debt, the South Sea Company was intended to operate as a trading firm in South America; in fact, part of its charter from Parliament included a monopoly over trade in the South Seas (actually, all of South America). Although sounding like a sure thing, by 1713, this monopoly portion of the business was worthless, as the Treaty of Utrecht eviscerated trade for England in the southern part of the New World. Fraud in the 18th Century In order for insiders to reap the greatest profit, the founders of the South Sea Company began a two-pronged, ethically challenged campaign. Prior to the announcement of the companyís plan to buy government debt, insiders discredited Britainís ability to finance itself, driving down the value of that debt. The insiders then gobbled it up at the greatly reduced rate of £55/£100. Next, to encourage debt holders to exchange it for shares, the insiders loudly proclaimed the great value of the companyís trading operations, including its (valueless) South American monopoly. To be fair, South Seas still had a significant slave trading operation, although this was not as lucrative as had been hoped. In any event, shortly after the debt-buying plan was announced, South Sea Company stock sold at £123 per share (up from the £100 it was valued at pre-announcement, and the £55 that the duped debt holders received). Irrational Exuberance The enterprise appeared to roll along just fine until about 1718, when war with Spain led Spanish interests in South America to seize the companyís property there. Although the company lost some assets, the real loss from the seizures came from the bad publicity. By 1719, perhaps seeing the writing on the wall, the South Seas Company began a campaign to protect its insiders. These few were sold options to purchase stock at the current price. Then, the company began another marketing campaign, again touting the high value of its South Seas monopoly. Since prominent members of government held the options, they participated in spreading the rumor, and their cache gave credibility to it. The price of the stock skyrocketed from about £100 per share to nearly £1000, and the insiders reaped extraordinary profits.† At its peak, based on the stock price, the company was worth about £200 million (by purchasing power, today this would be about £24 billion / $37 billion; by average earnings, it would be £350 billion / $537 billion). Like the Tulip mania in 17th century Holland†and the stock market crash in 1929 America, naÔve regular people flocked to the irrationally exuberant market, as did other stock trading operations. One of the most unscrupulous of these was called, I kid you not,†A Company for Carrying on an Undertaking of Great Advantage, but Nobody to Know What It Is. After this one, even Parliament could no longer sit on its hands, and at the urging of South Sea Company insiders (to protect their informal monopoly on duping the public), in 1720, the Bubble Act was passed. This legislation prohibited the establishment of new companies that competed with existing charters, absent government permission. Collapse By June 1720, the share price of South Sea stock had soared to £1050, with many people purchasing their shares on loans secured by the shares they were buying (and the 1980s thought they invented junk debt). The share price dropped precipitously and by September 1720, it was at £150. Individuals and companies went bankrupt, and an outraged nation demanded that Parliament act. The subsequent investigation identified a number of individuals who had engaged in fraud or other bad acts in furtherance of the scheme including King George I, two of his mistresses, the Postmaster General, a member of the cabinet, two ministry heads and the Chancellor of the Exchequer; the latter was jailed. Despite all of this, the South Sea Company stuck around for some time, but rather than doing physical trading in the South Seas, primarily just dealt in Government debt until the mid-19th century. If you liked this article, you might also enjoy:
The worldwide rally continued last week. Seven of the eight indexes on my watchlist posted big gains. The lone loser was the Shanghai Composite, down three percent (2.97% to be precise). How well did the other indexes perform? Well, the average of the seven winners was a three percent increase (2.99% at two decimal places). Germany's DAXK was the top finisher, up 4.5%. France's CAC 40 and Japan's Nikkei also finished with gains of more than four percent. The S&amp;P 500's 1.74% gain was only good enough for sixth place. That was quite a week, thanks to hopes of more central bank intervention. The Shanghai remains the only index on the watch list in bear territory -- the traditional designation for a 20% decline from an interim high. See the table inset (lower right) in the chart below. The index is down over 37% from its interim high of August 2009. At the other end of the inset, Japan's stimulus-driven Nikkei closed the week a mere 0.30% off its interim high set on the previous close.  Here is a table highlighting the 2013 year-to-date gains, sorted in that order, along with the 2013 interim highs for the eight indexes. The sustained advance of the Japan's Nikkei puts it solidly in the top spot with three times the gain of the second place S&amp;P 500. While the Nikkei is the top performer, its three Asia-Pacific neighbors, Hong Kong's Hang Seng, China's Shanghai Composite and India's SENSEX, along with Germany's DAXK, have performed the worst in 2013, all with YTD losses. The DAXK was also in the red YTD last week, but its 4.5% surge over the past five sessions put it back in the green. A Closer Look at the Last Four Weeks The tables below provide a concise overview of performance comparisons over the past four weeks for these eight major indexes. I've also included the average for each week so that we can evaluate the performance of a specific index relative to the overall mean and better understand weekly volatility. The colors for each index name help us visualize the comparative performance over time.  The chart below illustrates the comparative performance of World Markets since March 9, 2009. The start date is arbitrary: The S&amp;P 500, CAC 40 and BSE SENSEX hit their lows on March 9th, the Nikkei 225 on March 10th, the DAX on March 6th, the FTSE on March 3rd, the Shanghai Composite on November 4, 2008, and the Hang Seng even earlier on October 27, 2008. However, by aligning on the same day and measuring the percent change, we get a better sense of the relative performance than if we align the lows.  Click for a larger image A Longer Look Back Here is the same chart starting from the turn of 21st century. The relative over-performance of the emerging markets (Shanghai, Mumbai SENSEX, Hang Seng) is readily apparent, especially the SENSEX, but the trend over the past two years has not been their friend (make that three years for the Shanghai).  Click for a larger image Check back next week for a new update. † Note from dshort: I track Germany's DAXK a price-only index, instead of the more familiar DAX index (which includes dividends), for constency with the other indexes, which do not include dividends. 
After a big first quarter rail traffic has come out of the gate extremely soft in Q2. ¬†The average pace of year over year expansion in intermodal traffic was a very healthy 5.3% in Q1, but has averaged just 0.08% so far in the first 4 weeks of the second quarter. ¬†This is a trend that has been developing since early March as the pace of expansion has averaged just 2.11% since the first week of March. ¬†Overall, that brings the 12 week moving average to 4.01%. ¬†That‚Äôs still a healthy pace, but the recent slowing is a trend worth keeping a close eye on. ¬†If rail traffic is any indicator it‚Äôs possible that economic growth peaked in Q1. Here‚Äôs more from AAR: ‚ÄúThe Association of American Railroads (AAR) reported mixed traffic for the week ending April 20, 2013, with total U.S. weekly carloads of 276,662 carloads, down 2 percent compared with the same week last year. Intermodal volume for the week totaled 240,698 units, up 0.6 percent compared with the same week last year.¬† Total U.S. traffic for the week was 517,360 carloads and intermodal units, down 0.8 percent compared with the same week last year. Four of the 10 carload commodity groups posted increases compared with the same week in 2012, led by petroleum and petroleum products, up 40.1 percent. Commodities showing a decrease included grain, down 21.8 percent. For the first 16 weeks of 2013, U.S. railroads reported cumulative volume of 4,403,958 carloads, down 2.3 percent from the same point last year, and 3,799,366 intermodal units, up 4.6 percent from last year. Total U.S. traffic for the first 16 weeks of 2013 was 8,203,324 carloads and intermodal units, up 0.7 percent from last year.‚Äù Chart via Orcam Investment Research: Pragmatic Capitalism
The traditional explanation of course is that people are discouraged by the lack of job opportunities and are simply "dropping out" of the labor force after having exhausted their unemployment benefits. But that's easier said than done. Most people need some sort of income to survive - so where does that income come from? A portion of the decline can be explained by households with two incomes going to one. But that's by no means all of it. Let's explore some recent trends that may explain what's really going on. 1. One common explanation is older workers retiring earlier and dropping out of the workforce. There is some anecdotal evidence for early retirement but the data doesn't support it. While participation rate by workers 55 years and older is not growing at the rate it did during the boom years, it's not declining either - which means it can't explain the declines in the chart above. Many people simply can't afford to retire.  2. Another explanation is that young people who can't find work are going to school. This trend is definitely contributing to the reduction in the overall participation rate. And the source of "income" for this group is of course the federal government in the form of student loans. Government-owned student loan balances continue to rise, as people "wait it out" at school while accumulating massive debt.  3. Another source of falling "official" employment participation is the unregistered workforce, as more people get paid "under the table". Indeed the underground economy is estimated to be at $2 trillion per year. CNBC: - The shadow economy is a system composed of those who can't find a full-time or regular job. Workers turn to anything that pays them under the table, with no income reported and no taxes paid ó especially with an uneven job picture. "I think the underground economy is quite big in the U.S.," said Alexandre Padilla, associate professor of economics at Metropolitan State University of Denver. "Whether it's using undocumented workers or those here legally, it's pretty large." 4. Finally, nearly nine million people are now receiving social security disability checks. When unemployment checks run out, some people (nearly a quarter) shift to this other source of income (discussed here). This is certainly an important program, but it's amazing how many people get "injured" while they are on unemployment. The improving labor markets did reduce the growth rate of this group, but the number of people on disability continues to increase much faster than the population growth.  Whether it's the spouse, the underground economy or the federal government providing the income, there is "life" after the unemployment checks stop coming. Meanwhile, the "official" labor participation rate keeps falling.
Brad DelongThose economies relatively rich at the start of the twentieth century have by and large seen their material wealth and prosperity explode. Those nations and economies that were relatively poor have grown richer, but for the most part slowly. The relative gulf between rich and poor economies has grown steadily over the past century. Today it is larger than at any time in humanity‚Äôs previous experience, or at least larger than at any time since only some tribes knew how to use fire. The gulf across which the world‚Äôs rich and poor regarded each other exists in every dimension: how much people consume, whether they can read, what tools they use, and how they make their living. This glass can be viewed either as half empty or as half full. The glass is half empty: we live today in a world that is nearly the most unequal world ever. Only the world of the 1970s and 1980s‚Äîwith standards of living in China greatly depressed by the legacy of Mao, his Great Leap Forward, and his Cultural Revolution and with standards of living in India depressed to a lesser extent by the License Raj of the Nehru Dynasty‚Äîwas more unequal than ours is, even today. The glass is half full: most of the world has already made the transition to sustained economic growth; most people live in economies that (while far poorer than the leading-edge post-industrial nations of the world‚Äôs economic core) have successfully climbed onto the escalator of economic growth and thus the escalator to modernity. The economic transformation of most of the world is less than a century behind the of the leading-edge economies‚Äîonly an eyeblink behind, at least from the millennial perspective. However, the millennial perspective is one that human beings can adopt only when contemplating the long-dead past‚Äînot when thinking about their present or their children‚Äôs future. On the other hand, one and a half billion people live in economies that have not made the transition to economic growth, and have not climbed onto the escalator to modernity. It is hard to argue that the median inhabitant of Africa has a higher real income than his or her counterpart of a generation ago. From an economist‚Äôs point of view, the existence, persistence, and increasing size of large gaps in productivity levels and living standards across nations seems bizarre. We can understand why pre-industrial civilizations had different levels of technology and prosperity: they had different exploitable nature resources, and the diffusion of new ideas from civilization to civilization could be very slow. Such explanations do not apply to the world today. The source of the material prosperity seen today in leading-edge economies is no secret: it is the storehouse of technological capabilities that have been invented since the beginning of the industrial revolution. This storehouse is no one‚Äôs private property. Most of it is accessible to anyone who can read. Almost all of the rest is accessible to anyone who can obtain an M.S. in Engineering. Because of modern telecommunications, ideas today spread at the speed of light. Governments, entrepreneurs, and individuals in poor economies should be straining every muscle‚Äîshould in fact have long ago strained every muscle‚Äîto do what Japan began to do in the mid-nineteenth century: acquire and apply everything in humanity's storehouse of technological capabilities. This ‚Äúdivergence‚Äù in living standards and productivity levels is another key aspect of twentieth century economic history: economies are, by almost every measure, less alike today than a century ago in spite of a century‚Äôs worth of revolutions in transportation and communication. Moreover, there seems to be every reason to fear that this ‚Äúdivergence‚Äù in living standards and productivity levels will continue to grow in the future. A number of factors have kept economic growth slow in today‚Äôs poor countries in the past: high rates of population growth that restrict growth in the capital-output ratio, high relative prices of capital goods that constrain investment, governments that (like most governments throughout history) take the short view in an attempt to maximize chances of survival and the perquisites of office, and traditional elites (religious and cultural) that fear what they will lose from a richer country more integrated into the twenty-first century world. These factors are still operating today, and likely to operate in the future as well. This is a potential source of great danger, because today‚Äôs world is sufficiently interdependent‚Äîpolitically, militarily, ecologically‚Äîthat the passage to a truly human world requires that we all get there at roughly the same time.
Flickr / zcopleyThe power of fear is amazing to me. For the most part, otherwise sane individuals will do all sorts of crazy things once things become a little bit dicey. Want proof? Look no further than the gold market. How else can you explain the massive move in an otherwise worthless metal over the last decade? If you are honest, ask yourself what real utility is there for gold? Don‚Äôt recite what the so-called analysts or experts will tell you about gold being the only real currency in the world (it is not). Those folks will tell you that gold is the only thing that will protect you and your family when things go horribly wrong (fear mongering). Really, what do you think the world is going to be like if things do really go horribly wrong? I highly doubt that gold bar will get you much if chaos truly takes hold. How about inflation? Those who love gold spew all sorts of nonsense about inflation ‚Äì again, all of it is fear-based. The global powers are printing money across the globe. All that money is going to make paper currency worthless. Prices across the board are going to rise in an unrelenting, unstoppable wave of inflation. Oh, really? If there is so much cash out there. Where in the world is it? I know I don‚Äôt have it, do you? For inflation to truly take hold there needs to be cash dispersed to the masses. That isn‚Äôt happening. Not even close. I‚Äôm sorry, but aside from being used in jewelry, gold does not have the utility the market is telling you today, even with the recent selling. Sure there has been a ton of money made owning gold over the last decade, but that has little to do with true value of gold in a market. What it does tell you is that there is a ton of fear out there and that fear can create a massive bubble in any investment. Take for example, hmmm let me see . . . Bitcoin. You know about Bitcoin, that supposedly hot new digital currency that everyone must have. Come on. Admit it, gold owners. You gave serious consideration to adding some Bitcoin to your portfolio or maybe you actually pulled the trigger and bought some before it collapsed. You might laugh at the lunacy of Bitcoin, but is it any different than the lunacy of gold? The answer is no, no and no again. Here are three very simple reasons why gold is like Bitcoin: I can imagine the hate mail and negative comments I might get for raising this issue, but I stand by my beliefs: gold could collapse no differently than what happened with Bitcoin. If you own the yellow metal, don‚Äôt be a fool. Take some of those fat profits off the table before it‚Äôs too late.
Editor's note: George Iordanou helped us with our coverage of Cyprus' banking sector meltdown in March. A native of the island, Iordanou is now getting his Ph.D in political theory at the University of Warwick in England.¬† Uncertainty is killing the people of Cyprus. It has been a month since the Eurozone meeting where Ministers of Finance decided that a haircut on local deposits should take place, thus destroying one of the two productive sectors of the island.¬† You cannot walk in the city centre of Nicosia without stumbling upon one of the many 'For Rent' signs in windows where shops used to be. The people of Cyprus are starting to experience the aftermath of the economic destruction. The physical manifestation of the assault is experienced through unemployment, 'Closed' and 'For Rent' signs and an overall feeling of degradation.¬† The psychological impact is even greater, since the people of Cyprus are kept in the dark. Everyone is waiting for the next government announcement or the next document leak . According to the latest Central Bank announcement, the capital controls will remain at least until the end of the summer. It is doubtful whether the local businesses will be able to survive that long. There is no liquidity in the market and firms close one after the other. Those that are lucky to still have a job are very much aware of the impending hardships and try to save as much as they can. No one is buying anything beyond the minimum necessities and this is unsurprisingly taking its toll on the economy. Uncertainty has broken the morale of the people. They don't know whether the economy has reached the bottom and will start to recover or whether the downfall has yet long way to go. It is impossible to do damage control, assess what has been lost and move on. The people of Cyprus are in limbo, unable to turn the page and move on with their lives. They still don't know what the amount of the haircut will be, how it will be distributed, what the memorandum of understanding with the troika involves and how it will affect them personally. Those working in the civil, semi-governmental and banking sector, are affected by this uncertainty the most, since they have more to lose. They make up of the middle-class of Cyprus, which enjoyed high standards of living in the post-1974 period. The people of Cyprus, having lost their houses in the 1974 Turkish invasion and subsequent division of the island, consider important to own a house. Thus, it is common for middle-class families to have a mortgage. Today, they find themselves in a situation where they do not know whether they will be able to continue with their mortgage payments, which are tailored to their former lifestyles. Moreover, they don't know whether they will be able to sustain themselves in their old age, as the fate of their retirement funds, held in the two big banks, is still uncertain. The politicians, both local and European only make the situation worse. Those affiliated with the conservative government that is now in power terrorize people about the consequences of leaving the euro and seeking a solution outside the troika. The communist party, which was in power until February 2013 and which invited the troika to assist, is now against it, ¬†but it has yet to provide the much-promised alternative plan that it would alleviate the situation.  In the meantime ¬†lists of people that transferred money out of Cyprus prior to the Eurogroup meetings are publicised. The family and the law firm of the current president is often featuring prominently in these lists, making people feel even less confident about the ability of the government to handle the situation. Also, the fact that two of the three members of the committee appointed by the president to inquire into those responsible for the economic situation in Cyprus have resigned further enhances the feelings of uncertainty and despair.  On top of all that, Cypriots watched the European MEPs on April 17th ¬†proclaim how bad the case of Cyprus was handled whilst agreeing to follow through with the decisions made by the Eurogroup. All this adds up to a very bad situation, demonstrating that the costs of the European Union decision-making are much more complicated and not ¬†easily quantifiable. Unfortunately, ¬†the human impact of the European policies is not factored in the decision-making.
The company that bought the division of Hostess responsible for the production of Twinkies will set up shop in multiple locations across the country and bring jobs back to Columbus, Georgia and Emporia, Kansasñtwo locations that closed following the demise of Hostess Brands, Inc. amid a labor dispute last November. Investment groups Metropoulos and Apollo Global Management (NASDAQ:APO) bought the brands along with other Dolly Madison products following a public outcry about the disappearance of the classic junk food staple. NBC News reported that many of the companyís old plants will reopen after it hires non-union employees to fill the vacated Teamsters and Bakery Union positions. Michael Cramer, †Executive VP of the new Hostess, seemed adamant in his attempt to avoid working with unions, which refused to continue under the existing conditions and forced the hand of company officials last yearÖ ìWeíre sure not going to invite the unions in,î Cramer told NBC. The reopening of many of the original Hostess plants will mark†a significant blow to labor unions, many of which are still smarting from the efforts to weaken organizations in Wisconsin and other places. The blueprint is enticing for;†hoping to circumvent organized labor: simply dissolve the company, revamp the approach and use the same facilities to begin business again. Manufacturing jobs are filled quickly. Of course, the protection offered by unions in exchange for dues was not delivered to members in the case of the Hostess debacle. Employees would have been forced to sacrifice large parts of wages or benefits in order to prevent the factories making Twinkies from closing. In many ways, the story of Hostessís end was the story of any failing company. There is no way to stop unions from forming, of course, making Cramerís company vulnerable to the same disputes that troubled the former Hostess.
Wikimedia CommonsRob told me JB was dead. JB was my best friend growing up. We sat next to each other on the bus. After school weíd play ping pong or pinball or monopoly or ride bikes. Every single day we did this for eight years. Then we drifted apart. Rob said, The last time I spoke to him he sounded like a ghost. It was like there was nothing there, Rob said. I hadnít seen JB in 20 years. He dropped out of college, Rob said, and never really had a job. His parents gave him money to live. He didnít want to do anything. He changed his phone number every few weeks, Rob said. So he was hard to keep in touch with. I didnít understand. Why did he change his number every few weeks? Heíd meet a girl, and then a few weeks later heíd get tired of her but not want to deal with it. Heíd change his number so the girl couldnít reach him, Rob said. And he moved a lot. He had no Facebook page, no internet presence, it was hard to track him down, Rob said. And itís true. I had never found him on the Internet. JB hurt his leg a few years ago, Rob said, and had no insurance because he never had a job. So got addicted to painkillers. He was into the drug scene, Rob said. So no job, drifting phone numbers, a hazy identity, drug, nerve damage, pain killers. One day he never woke up, Rob said. He was 39. I donít feel sad about this. People die. I havenít seen him since we were 18 and on graduation day. But I wonder about one thing Rob said. ìHe was like a ghost the last time I spoke with him.î We know when the body and mind are giving up. We know when spirit is exhausted. When the emotions donít care. He never had anything he wanted to do, Rob said. Is that all it is? Do we just need something to do? Something that we want to scratch just a tiny bit so we continue one more day? We donít have to save the world. Or invent warm ice. Or time travel. Or even have a passion or a purpose. When I was dead broke and crying I wanted to die just so my kids could have my life insurance policy. What got me to get up and go again? And then later, when it happened again. And then again. Why didnít JB do that? I call it ìthe pushî. Youíre riding the bicycle up the hill all the time in life. Everything in life wants you to decay. To be subjugated. To be violated. To be tired. To become a ghost. To roll back down the hill just when you thought you were close to the top. Itís fucking tiring to live. What can give us THE PUSH? I donít know. For me, today, itís just this post. Some days, itís to see my 11 year old smile. Sometimes, I just want to take a walk. Or help Claudia. Or do something fun and creative. Whatís your PUSH today? A little bit, every day, compounds. A little push today turns into a big life tomorrow. My one requirement: I have to give something. I have to enjoy it. Else, itís too draining. Itís a shit stain. I slip back on the hill. A deep breath. You can do it, I tell myself. One more turn of the pedals. THE PUSH! Get over the hill! I want to live.
By:† Peter Schiff Friday, April 26, 2013 Don Draper, Mad Menís master advertiser likes to say ìwhen you donít like what they are saying, change the conversation.î† When it comes to the current economic weakness, which was confirmed again today by the release of lower than expected GDP data, Washington would love do just that. Fortunately for them, they consistently outdo the master minds of Madison Avenue when it comes to misdirection. If the government doesnít like what people are saying, they donít bother just to change the conversation, they change the meaning of the words. The latest example of this was revealed earlier this week when the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) announced new methods of calculating Gross Domestic Product (GDP) that will immediately make the economy ìbiggerí than it used to be. The changes focus heavily on how money spent on research and development (R&amp;D) and the production of ìintangibleî assets like movies, music, and television programs will be accounted for. Declaring such expenditures to be ìinvestmentsî will immediately increase U.S. GDP by about three percent. Such an upgrade would immediately increase the theoretic size of the U.S economy and may well lead to the perception of faster growth. In reality these smoke and mirror alterations are no different from changes made to the inflation and unemployment yardsticks that for years have convinced Americans that the economy is better than it actually is. Todayís data release confirms that the economic ìrecoveryî is weaker than expected and remains heavily dependent on Federal support. Personal spending was indeed up 3.2%, the biggest jump in two years, but real earnings were down by 5.3%, the biggest fall since 2009. Not surprisingly the buying was made possible by a drop in the savings rate, which came in at just 2.6%, the lowest since the 4th quarter of 2007. No doubt, rising home prices and falling mortgage rates (made possible by Fed stimulus) allowed Americans to refinance their homes and to borrow and spend the money that they did not earn.† With GDP continuing to disappoint, a statistical make-over couldn't come at a more convenient time. In the simplest terms, GDP is calculated by combining a nationís private spending, government spending, and investments (while adding trade surplus or subtracting trade deficits).† Business spending on R&amp;D, a portion of which comes in the form of salaries, has traditionally been considered an expense that does not explicitly add to GDP. But now, the United States will lead the rest of the world in redefining GDP. Washington has now declared that the $400 billion spent annually by U.S. businesses on R&amp;D will count towards GDP. This equates to about 2.7% of our nearly $16 Trillion GDP. The argument goes that, for example, the GDP generated by iPhones has far exceeded the cost spent by Apple to develop the product. Therefore, Appleís R&amp;D is not an expense but an investment. The BEA also argues that the cost of producing television shows, movies, and music should count as investments that add to GDP. Supporters of the change often hold up the blockbuster television comedy Seinfeld as an example. Given that the showís billions in earnings far exceeded its initial costs, they argue that the production expenses should be considered ìinvestmentsî (like R&amp;D) and be added into GDP. Economists who have staked their reputations on the efficacy of Keynesian growth strategies have argued that such changes will more accurately reflect the realities of our 21st century information economy. But their analysis ignores the failures so often associated with R&amp;D and artistic productions. For every breakthrough iPhone there are dozens of ill-conceived gizmos that never get off the drawing board. For every Seinfeld, there are countless failures and bombs that leave nothing but losses. In essence, the new methodology is an exercise in double accounting.†† For instance, suppose a company employs an accountant who works in the sales department, who is then transferred to the R&amp;D department at the same salary. He still counts beans but now his salary will be billed to the R&amp;D budget rather than sales.† In the old methodology, the accountantís impact on GDP would come only from the personal consumption that his salary allows.† Going forward, he will add to GDP in two ways: from his personal consumption and his salaryís addition to his companyís R&amp;D budget. The same formula would apply to a trucker who switches from a freight company to a movie production company (for the same salary). If he moves refrigerators, he only adds to GDP through his personal spending, but if he hauls movie lights, his contribution to GDP is doubled.† It makes no difference if the movie bombs. These double shots are different from traditional investments, which inject savings (or idle cash) back into the marketplace. Until money from personal or corporate savings is invested, it is not adding to GDP. Another change that will artificially boost GDP concerns how government salaries will be counted.† Unlike most private sector compensation, wages, salaries, and pension contributions paid to government workers are added directly to GDP.†This distinction makes sense and eliminates potentially double accounting.† Profits generated by private companies add to GDP when they are ultimately spent or invested by the company. Wages reduce profits, and therefore reduce GDP. But that reduction is cancelled out by the consumption of the employee receiving the wages.†Governments do not generate profits, so salaries are the only way that public spending adds back to GDP. The new system magnifies the GDP impact of government pensions, which are a principal component of public sector compensation. Going forward, the pensions will be calculated not from actual contributions, but from what governments have promised.† Under the old system, if a state had a $10,000 pension obligation but only contributed $1,000, only the $1,000 would be added to GDP. Under the new system the entire $10,000 would be counted. So now governments can magically grow the economy simply by making promises they canít keep. The bottom line is that now certain private sector salaries (in R&amp;D and entertainment) will be counted twice and public pension contributions will be counted even if they arenít made.† The economy will not actually be any larger or grow any faster, but the statistics will claim otherwise.† With the stroke of a pen, our debt to GDP ratio will come down. †Will this soothe the fears of our creditors? †Will critics of big government take comfort that spending as a share of GDP may be lower?† My guess is that the government is confident that its trick will work, and that distracting attention with a statistical illusion is the sole motivation for the change. A similar type of hocus pocus has been successfully used to make inflation appear much smaller. A few months ago I produced a video showing how changes in methods used to calculate the Consumer Price Index (CPI) have resulted in a widening gap between increases in real prices and the CPI. The changes, that incorporate such concepts as hedonic adjustments and substation bias, were made to make the CPI more ìaccurate,î but have instead produced consistently lower results. Although I used a basket of 20 goods for that experiment, I gave particular attention to such things as newspaper and magazine prices and health insurance costs. But just recently I came across another data set that leads to the same conclusion. Since the late 1980ís, The Economist Magazine has compiled something called the ìBig Mac Index,î(BMI) a global survey of the cost of McDonaldís signature hamburger. Although the index is primarily used as a means to compare purchasing power parity around the globe, it also can be used to track the prices of Big Macs in the U.S. over many years. † From 1986 to 2003 the U.S. BMI rose roughly in line with the CPI. Although the burger occasionally rose faster or slower, over that 17 year period both indexes increased by about 68% (or about 4% per year). But from April 2003 to January 2013 the CPI Index is up just 25% percent (from 183.8 to 230.28 or about 2.5% per year) while the BMI is up 61% (from $2.71 to $4.37 or about 6.1% per year), or more than twice the rate of inflation. What could possibly account for the difference?† Has the Big Mac gotten bigger, better, tastier, or healthier?† As an iconic product, McDonaldís has been reluctant to change a proven formula. If the Big Mac hasnít changed, is it possible that our inflation yardstick has? It has been estimated that if the government used the same methodology to measure inflation that it used during the 1980ís, we would be currently dealing with officialinflation that would be many times higher than todayís official 1.5%rate.†The Big Mac appears to confirm this. But now the government appears ready to distort the figures even further.† With little resistance from the media or the public, the Obama Administration and Congressional Republicans seem ready to switch the inflation measurements used for Social Security away from the CPI in favor of the even more attenuated ìChain Weighted CPI.î This index, which is consistently lower than the CPI, looks to incorporate changes in spending patterns when consumers switch to more affordable products (in other words, it measures the cost of survival, not the cost of living). And while many admit that this is a manipulation, no one really seems to care. Similarly clumsy tricks have been used to make our unemployment problem appear less severe. Over the years new methods have been introduced to factor out those who have ìdropped outî of the labor force or to count part-time or temporary workers as employed. All this takes us right back to Don Draper. If you canít change the conversation, change the words. If that doesnít work, just change the dictionaries. To order your copy of†Peter Schiff's latest book,†The Real Crash: Americaís Coming Bankruptcy ñ How to Save Yourself and Your Country,†click here. For in-depth analysis of this and other investment topics, subscribe to†Peter Schiff's†Global Investor†newsletter.†CLICK HERE†for your free subscription. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital ª
The Relative Strength Index (RSI) is a momentum oscillator that measures the speed and change of price moves. The RSI moves between zero and 100 and is considered overbought with a reading above 70 and oversold when below 30. ¬†Note the RSI can sustain an overbought (oversold) reading in a strong up (down) trend. Global Macro Monitor Click chart to enlarge. ¬† (click here if chart is not observable)  Read more posts on Global Macro Monitor ¬ª
