Bridget CaseyAs human beings, there are some traits that we all have in common‚Äîtwo hands, one heart, red blood, and, unfortunately for most of us, a wealth of debt.¬† The average American carries a $47,000 debt load, and as a nation, nearly $2¬†trillion of our collective debt is either delinquent or 90 days past due.¬† Part of the problem in figuring out where to begin getting out of the red is knowing who to turn to for help. Maybe you're too embarrassed to fess up to your issues or you can't afford a financial advisor. So you might pick up a $20 self-help book or enroll in a $200 debt makeover course online.¬† Save your money. Some of the greatest advice out there can come from the person standing next to you in line at the grocery store. To prove our point, we've rounded up 10 truly inspiring stories of real consumers who faced their debt head-on and managed to come out on the other side.¬†
Mod Note: This comment is a response to the ContemplatingBanker's post¬†"How to Deal with the Hours"(find this comment lower down on page 2). Patrick called this "one of the best comments I've ever read on WSO" - so naturally it deserves its own spot on the homepage. Enjoy! ContemplatingBanker ‚Äì I read your post and empathized very strongly with what you wrote. I have been in a similar place myself and, in some of my lowest moments, remember reaching out to a few trusted advisers and getting literally nothing back from them. Despondent about this, I hunkered down and carried on with my job while thinking hard about how to rationalize the junior banker experience and get the most out of it without coming away from it defeated and bitter. I mean no disrespect to the other posters and agree almost entirely with the sensible advice that they have shared. I will however say that their good advice seems to be mostly tactical and focused on the day-to-day blocking and tackling of the job. Permit me to offer a slightly more strategic and higher-level perspective. Tough as it is in the short term, you do have an extraordinary opportunity before you and I discourage you from acting rashly and without due forethought. Much as being an Analyst blows, you can cope and you can come away from this experience as a stronger and more empowered person with terrific career options ahead of you. I should probably ‚Äúintroduce‚Äù myself first. I have lurked on WSO for a long time but this is the first time that I have felt moved to post anything more than a few lines. The comments below should probably be set in context by some bare facts about me: I am in my mid-30s, my first career was as an infantry officer in which I spent two tours fighting in the Middle East. I did an MBA at H/S/W and then worked as an M&amp;A Associate for a MM advisor on the East Coast. I am now working in a completely different industry, although I would not have got this chance if I didn‚Äôt start my business career with an¬†investment bank. What follows is simply an account of what I found helped my state of mind while I was getting crushed by repeated 100+ hour weeks one after another.¬†I am writing this in the spirit of trying to help another guy trying to get through a tough and miserable time ‚Äì if it comes across as preaching or condescending then that is unintentional. If it comes across as braggadocios¬†alpha-male bullshit then that is not intended either. I was a soldier for nearly a decade and I guess that colors how I look at a lot of situations. Here goes: There are some extraordinary stories of people that have survived in the face of incredible odds against them. I am talking about being stranded in the wilderness or adrift at sea ‚Äì that kind of a thing. There has been a certain amount of academic research and a number of books filled with awe-inspiring stories. Movies too; ‚Äú127 Hours‚Äù is a recent example that comes to mind. Those that survive exhibit a number of common personality traits. Fortitude and an absence of self-pity are among them, but the one that really resonated with me is: Acceptance. Those that got their heads down and prevailed against an awful situation accepted the hand that they had been dealt. That was just how it happened to be for them. They accepted that this was the situation that they‚Äôd got themselves into, they accepted what resources (or more importantly what constraints) they had, and they made the best of what they had to work with. Getting frustrated or angry about things that you simply cannot change is an enormous waste of energy. Save that energy for something that will actually help you. I am wary of becoming preachy here so I will keep it short: there are many, many people whose lives are a fuck‚Äôs-sight worse than yours. Nothing highly original here, but what put it in perspective for me was reading a well-written book about somebody roughly the same age as me who is having an altogether different, and worse, experience. Apart from the fact that reading is an enjoyable and enriching escape ‚Äì even for 20 minutes before bed, it can also give you tremendous perspective. [I had the Kindle app downloaded onto my work computer, and sometimes inconspicuously read between 9am and 3pm while I was waiting for a turn of edits]. ‚ÄúUnbroken‚Äù and ‚ÄúMatterhorn‚Äù are two books that I recently read. I also taped a small picture of Nelson Mandella to my monitor. When I was really hating life I thought about what he described in ‚ÄúThe Long Walk to Freedom‚Äù and it put things in perspective for me. Once one of the Directors asked me who the picture was of ‚Äì I told him it was my uncle and he seemed to believe me, the ignorant fuck. 3. Rationalize 2 Years. ¬†I know its hard when you are there, and at the time of being an Analyst its not much less than a tenth of your life, but two years really is not a long time. If you get caught with a small amount of weed and are unlucky you can get sent to prison for more than two years, soldiers go to Afghanistan for nearly 18 months. I know that these are downbeat examples but you can get through two years if you can keep the end in sight and break it down into chunks. I created a fancy spreadsheet with loads of date functions that broke down how far through my stint I was and how much money I had made so far. This can sap your morale as well as boost it so decide for yourself and obviously never let anyone see it! Two years all at once can seem overwhelming so break it down into milestones that work for you: Thanksgiving, when bonuses get paid, your one-year point ‚Äì whatever. Focus on getting to the next milestone and then pick another one. Somehow it makes things seem a tiny bit less shit. Carry yourself with purpose and aplomb ‚Äì do not look like a victim and never complain. It is a shitty life right now ‚Äì everyone knows that it is. The Analysts that tearfully drag themselves about the floor like zombies mark themselves down as bitches and it becomes a downward spiral of disrespect from there. It is an ugly, ‚ÄúLord of the Flies‚Äù, side of human nature and I am not endorsing it but if you mope around and visibly hate every moment then it gets noticed and it becomes the legacy that you do not want. For the rest of the tips, head to Wall Street Oasis&gt;
NEW HAVEN ñ It was never going to be easy, but central banks in the worldís two largest economies ñ the United States and China ñ finally appear to be embarking on a path to policy normalization. Addicted to an open-ended strain of ¸ber monetary accommodation that was established in the depths of the Great Crisis of 2008-2009, financial markets are now gasping for breath. Ironically, because the traction of unconventional policies has always been limited, the fallout on real economies is likely to be muted. The Federal Reserve and the Peopleís Bank of China are on the same path, but for very different reasons. For Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues, there seems to be a growing sense that the economic emergency has passed, implying that extraordinary action ñ namely, a zero-interest-rate policy and a near-quadrupling of its balance sheet ñ is no longer appropriate. Conversely, the PBOC is engaged in a more pre-emptive strike ñ attempting to ensure stability by reducing the excess leverage that has long underpinned the real side of an increasingly credit-dependent Chinese economy. Both actions are correct and long overdue. While the Fedís first round of quantitative easing helped to end the financial-market turmoil that occurred in the depths of the recent crisis, two subsequent rounds ñ including the current, open-ended QE3 ñ have done little to alleviate the lingering pressure on over-extended American consumers. Indeed, household-sector debt is still in excess of 110% of disposable personal income and the personal saving rate remains below 3%, averages that compare unfavorably with the 75% and 7.9% norms that prevailed, respectively, in the final three decades of the twentieth century. With American consumers responding by hunkering down as never before, inflation-adjusted consumer demand has remained stuck on an anemic 0.9% annualized growth trajectory since early 2008, keeping the US economy mired in a decidedly subpar recovery. Unable to facilitate balance-sheet repair or stimulate real economic activity, QE has, instead, become a dangerous source of instability in global financial markets. With the drip-feed of QE-induced liquidity now at risk, the recent spasms in financial markets leave little doubt about the growing dangers of speculative excesses that had been building. Fortunately, the Fed is finally facing up to the downside of its grandiose experiment. Recent developments in China tell a different story ñ but one with equally powerful implications. There, credit tightening does not follow from determined action by an independent central bank; rather, it reflects an important shift in the basic thrust of the stateís economic policies. Chinaís new leadership, headed by President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang, seems determined to end its predecessorsí fixation on maintaining a rapid pace of economic growth and to refocus policy on the quality of growth. This shift not only elevates the importance of the pro-consumption agenda of Chinaís 12th Five-Year Plan; it also calls into question the longstanding proactive tactics of the countryís fiscal and monetary authorities. The policy response ñ or, more accurately, the policy non-response ñ to the current slowdown is an important validation of this new approach. The absence of a new round of fiscal stimulus indicates that the Chinese government is satisfied with a 7.5-8% GDP growth rate ñ a far cry from the earlier addiction to growth rates around 10%. But slower growth in China can continue to sustain development only if the economyís structure shifts from external toward internal demand, from manufacturing toward services, and from resource-intensive to resource-light growth. Chinaís new leadership has not just lowered its growth target; it has upped the ante on the economyís rebalancing imperatives. Consistent with this new mindset, the PBOCís unwillingness to put a quick end to the June liquidity crunch in short-term markets for bank financing sends a strong signal that the days of open-ended credit expansion are over. That is a welcome development. Chinaís private-sector debt rose from around 140% of GDP in 2009 to more than 200% in early 2013, according to estimates from Bernstein Research ñ a surge that may well have exacerbated the imbalances of an already unbalanced Chinese economy. There is good reason to believe that Chinaís new leaders are now determined to wean the economy off ever-mounting (and destabilizing) debt ñ especially in its rapidly expanding ìshadow bankingî system. This stance appears to be closely aligned with Xiís rather cryptic recent comments about a ìmass lineî education campaign aimed at addressing problems arising from the ìfour windsî of formalism, bureaucracy, hedonism, and extravagance. Financial markets are having a hard time coming to grips with the new policy mindset in the worldís two largest economies. At the same time, investors have raised serious and legitimate questions about Japanís economic-policy regime under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, which unfortunately relies far more on financial engineering ñ quantitative easing and yen depreciation ñ than on a new structural-reform agenda. Such doubts are understandable. After all, if four years of unconventional monetary easing by the Fed could not end Americaís balance-sheet recession, why should anyone believe that the Bank of Japanís aggressive asset purchases will quickly end that countryís two lost decades of stagnation and deflation? As financial markets come to terms with the normalization of monetary policy in the US and China, while facing up to the shortcomings of the BOJís copycat efforts, the real side of the global economy is less at risk than are asset prices. In large part, that is because unconventional monetary policies were never the miracle drug that they were supposed to be. They added froth to financial markets but did next to nothing to foster vigorous recovery and redress deep-rooted problems in the real economy. Breaking bad habits is hardly a painless experience for liquidity-addicted investors. But better now than later, when excesses in asset and credit markets would spawn new and dangerous distortions on the real side of the global economy. That is exactly what pushed the world to the brink in 2008-2009, and there is no reason why it could not happen again.
Yesterday David Einhorn was bounced from the World Series of Poker when another hedge fund manager produced two aces to beat his ace jack combo (Einhorn finished in 72 place). So the all-important question there, obviously is ‚Äî who was that guy? Einhorn was bested by Bill Perkins, founder of Houston-based energy hedge fund, Skylar Capital. Perkins was a protege of legendary (and now retired) oil trader, John Arnold. Originally from New Jersey, he graduated from the University of Iowa with a degree in electrical engineering. As a trader he started out as a clerk at the NYMEX, later working for El Paso Energy, Statoil and AIG, according to Reuters.¬†He joined Arnold's firm, Centaurus, in 2002. Perkins is now ranked 7th in the tournament, which will likely conclude today. And that's all well and good, but from this Bloomberg report, the most important thing we can glean is that the guy has a sense of humor: After Einhorn, of Greenlight Capital Inc., moved all-in, Perkins called, yelling ‚ÄúLeeeroy Jeeenkins!‚Äù according to WSOP.com. It was his version of an Internet meme popularized in 2006 from the video game ‚ÄúWorld of Warcraft,‚Äù in which a group of players carefully planned an attack scheme only to have one character, Leroy Jenkins, ruin it by recklessly rushing into action while shouting his name. Perkins was more successful last night, turning over a pair of aces to best Einhorn‚Äôs ace-jack combination. Einhorn finished in 72nd place. Good luck, bro.
Yesterday David Einhorn was bounced from the World Series of Poker when another hedge fund manager produced two aces to beat his ace jack combo (Einhorn finished in 72 place). So the all-important question there, obviously is ‚Äî who was that guy? Einhorn was bested by Bill Perkins, founder of Houston-based energy hedge fund, Skylar Capital. Perkins was a protege of legendary (and now retired) oil trader, John Arnold. Originally from New Jersey, he graduated from the University of Iowa with a degree in electrical engineering. As a trader he started out as a clerk at the NYMEX, later working for El Paso Energy, Statoil and AIG, according to Reuters.¬†He joined Arnold's firm, Centaurus, in 2002. Perkins is now ranked 7th in the tournament, which will likely conclude today. And that's all well and good, but from this Bloomberg report, the most important thing we can glean is that the guy has a sense of humor: After Einhorn, of Greenlight Capital Inc., moved all-in, Perkins called, yelling ‚ÄúLeeeroy Jeeenkins!‚Äù according to WSOP.com. It was his version of an Internet meme popularized in 2006 from the video game ‚ÄúWorld of Warcraft,‚Äù in which a group of players carefully planned an attack scheme only to have one character, Leroy Jenkins, ruin it by recklessly rushing into action while shouting his name. Perkins was more successful last night, turning over a pair of aces to best Einhorn‚Äôs ace-jack combination. Einhorn finished in 72nd place. Good luck, bro.
Note from dshort: One of my economic correspondents, James Ross, called my attention to the fact that the NYSE has released new data for margin debt, now available through May. I've updated the charts in this commentary to include the new numbers. The New York Stock Exchange publishes end-of-month data for margin debt on the NYXdata website, where we can also find historical data back to 1959. Let's examine the numbers and study the relationship between margin debt and the market, using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the latter. The first chart shows the two series in real terms ‚Äî adjusted for inflation to today's dollar using the Consumer Price Index as the deflator. I picked 1995 as an arbitrary start date. We were well into the Boomer Bull Market that began in 1982 and approaching the start of the Tech Bubble that shaped investor sentiment during the second half of the decade. The astonishing surge in leverage in late 1999 peaked in March 2000, the same month that the S&amp;P 500 hit its an all-time daily high, although the highest monthly close for that year was five months later in August. A similar surge began in 2006, peaking in July, 2007, three months before the market peak. ¬† ¬† The next chart shows the percentage growth of the two data series from the same 1995 starting date, again based on real (inflation-adjusted) data. I've added markers to show the precise monthly values and added callouts to show the month. Margin debt grew at a rate comparable to the market from 1995 to late summer of 2000 before soaring into the stratosphere. The two synchronized in their rate of contraction in early 2001. But with recovery after the Tech Crash, margin debt gradually returned to a growth rate closer to its former self in the second half of the 1990s rather than the more restrained real growth of the S&amp;P 500. But by September of 2006, margin again went ballistic. It finally peaked in the summer of 2007, about three months before the market. ¬† ¬† After the market low of 2009, margin debt again went on a tear until the contraction in late spring of 2010. The summer doldrums promptly ended when Chairman Bernanke hinted of more quantitative easing in his August, 2010 Jackson Hole speech. The appetite for margin instantly returned, and the Fed has periodically increased the easing. Was April a Margin Debt Peak? Unfortunately, the NYSE margin debt data is a few weeks old when it is published. In nominal terms, real margin debt at the end of May 2013, the latest available data, shows a slight month-over-month decline of 2.1% (1.9% in nominal terms). Will we look back at April as a cyclical peak for margin debt like we saw in 2000 and 2007? And does that anticipate a major market peak as we saw twice in the 21st century? NYSE Investor Credit Lance Roberts, General Partner &amp; CEO of Streettalk Advisors, analyzes margin debt in the larger context that includes free cash accounts and credit balances in margin accounts. Essentially, he calculates the Credit Balance as the sum of Free Credit Cash Accounts and Credit Balances in Margin Accounts minus Margin Debt. The chart below illustrates the mathematics of Credit Balance with an overlay of the S&amp;P 500. Note that the chart below is based on nominal data, not adjusted for inflation. ¬† ¬† As I pointed out above, the NYSE margin debt data is a several weeks old when it is published. Thus, even though it may in theory be a leading indicator, a major shift in margin debt isn't be immediately evident. Nevertheless, we see that the troughs in the monthly net credit balance preceded peaks in the monthly S&amp;P 500 closes by six months in 2000 and four months in 2007. The most recent S&amp;P 500 correction greater than 10% was the 19.39% selloff in 2011 from April 29th to October 3rd. Investor Credit hit a negative extreme in March 2011. There are too few peak/trough episodes in in this overlay series to take the latest credit-balance trough as a definitive warning for U.S. equities. But we'll want to keep an eye on this metric over the next few months.
APJanet YellenJanet Yellen is in the running to become the next chair of the Federal Reserve, and that has many bankers and Wall Street titans worried. The diminutive vice chair of the U.S. central bank ‚Äî an academic economist who is married to a Nobel Prize-winning economist ‚Äî is known to be a formidable intellect and a force on the interest rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee. Her views on financial market regulation ‚Äî an area where she‚Äôd have tremendous power as leader of the central bank ‚Äî are less well-known. ‚ÄúHer strengths are as an economist and thinking about macroeconomic policy and monetary policy,‚Äù said¬†Tony Fratto, a former Treasury assistant secretary under President George W. Bush. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs no question that‚Äôs where the bulk of her experience is.‚Äù The Center interviewed Yellen and reviewed her career through two stints on the Federal Reserve Board and as president of the San Francisco Fed Bank ¬†‚Äî including speeches, meeting transcripts, government testimony and reviews of bank failures. The picture that emerges is of an overseer who tried to point out dangers in the banking system before the situation came to a crisis in 2008, but who didn‚Äôt act forcefully against banks that she saw taking excessive risk because she didn‚Äôt believe she had adequate authority. After working through the depths of the crisis and having a hand in closing more than a dozen failed banks ¬†‚Äî including Washington Mutual, the largest bank failure in U.S. history ¬†‚Äî Yellen now appears determined to ensure that banks fortify themselves against financial shocks and that regulators have the power to police the system. Yellen is unlikely to push for revolutionary change, such as breaking up the biggest banks. The Fed so far ‚Äúhas taken the view that we need the rules not to change too much,‚Äù said¬†Simon Johnson, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who supports making banks smaller. However, many expect her to be a tougher regulator than the current Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, and she appears more willing to take strong action to stop banking giants from putting taxpayers at risk. But even so, the power of the Fed has its limits. ‚ÄúThey can‚Äôt stop all future crises, but it‚Äôs up to the Fed to make these crises more or less severe,‚Äù said Johnson, author of¬†13 Bankers: The Wall Street Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown. Bernanke‚Äôs term ends at the end of this year and President Barack Obama has suggested that he¬†may replace him. She wants to require big banks to hold more capital than is currently proposed, to boost the margin requirements on derivatives trades and to require foreign banks that do business in the U.S. to hold capital in the U.S. ¬† ‚ÄúWe would expect her to toughen rules for the biggest banks,‚Äù said Jaret Seiberg, analyst at Guggenheim Strategies in New York, in a client report. ‚ÄúWe believe her elevation to chairman would be negative for the mega banks.‚Äù Yellen was first appointed to the Federal Reserve Board in 1994 when Alan Greenspan was chair. She was at the Fed less than a year when she dealt Greenspan his first and only defeat in a vote over his 18 years at the helm. The Fed‚Äôs Board of Governors was set to vote at a rare open meeting in 1995 to require banks to use a uniform formula to inform consumers of the true rate of return on bank CDs. Yellen and then-Vice Chair¬†Alan Blinder¬†were opposed. ¬† ‚ÄúThe formula was wrong. It was just wrong,‚Äù Yellen said in an interview in her office. ‚ÄúI couldn‚Äôt stand it.‚Äù On her way to the meeting, she complained to another governor about the faulty formula, invoking the image of her mother whose savings was in CDs. When it was time to vote, Greenspan had three yeas to Yellen‚Äôs four nays. That Yellen dealt the notoriously laissez-faire chairman his one defeat in a vote on bank regulation is both amusing and telling. ‚ÄúOn the pro-regulation, anti -regulation spectrum, if we imagine such a thing, she is miles away from Alan Greenspan,‚Äù said Blinder.
After a furore erupted over the decision to replace Elizabeth Fry with Winston Churchill on £5 banknotes, the outgoing Bank of England governor, Sir Mervyn King, explained it was all a terrible misunderstanding. Those fearing that the achievement of women in British history would no longer be represented by anyone other than a hereditary monarch need not worry; the white, male faces on our banknotes ñ Charles Darwin, Adam Smith, Winston Churchill, John Houblon, Matthew Boulton and James Watt ñ will one day be joined by everyone's favourite spinster aunt. Jane Austen is "quietly waiting in the wings" to appear on the £10 banknote, King promised. As an American resident on these shores, I must confess that I had to look up just who Houblon and Boulton were (unaccountably, they did not feature in the Life in the UK test). I also had to check my maths. As Fry is eased out, Austen will be eased in, guaranteeing that there will always be one woman out of six symbolic figures ñ 16%. And that's about right. As everyone knows, women are supposed to make up 20% of representative bodies. We account for roughly 20% of people on boards and 20% of people in parliament (in the US Senate we hold 20% of the seats, a proportion right in line with the Bank of England's base rate). Women also comprise 20% of the professoriate in Britain and Europe, there were 20 women among the Fortune 500 bosses, and on average women earn 20% less than men. So it's easy to see why King was confident he could smooth our ruffled feathers. We'll have our statutory token female. As a literature professor, I am naturally delighted to hear Austen is quietly waiting in the wings, for that's always been her style. Nothing too pushy or presumptuous; with her nice manners, gentle wit and quintessential British irony, Austen was a token female before we even had token females. A prototoken, if you will. The Oxford English Dictionary tells me that "token" has meant "pro forma; (purely) symbolic; constituting a gesture (only); minimal, nominal, perfunctory" since about 1915, which is when the syllabus of modern English literature began to be consolidated in British and American universities. Jane Austen was never included in the literary canon in a purely symbolic or perfunctory way, of course. Her novels have always been much admired, even by people who don't much admire books by women. She was not a token female because it never even occurred to the men teaching literature that such a thing might be necessary or desirable. Indeed, it often never occurred to them that she was female. A Walton Litz ñ a fine literary scholar who, in 1965, wrote an influential book about Austen subtitled A Study of Her Artistic Development ñ once told a friend of mine that he never thought for a moment while composing his book about the fact that Austen was a woman. It never crossed his mind. For literary scholars, Austen has always been the exception who proved the rule. This is such a familiar idea that it has its own phrase: Austen's exceptionalism has been debated for decades by scholars who argue that she was admitted into the all-boys' club because her books were essentially conservative, placatory, invested in maintaining the status quo. Such an interpretation entirely overlooks her subversive energy, the challenging effects of her irony, but that's no matter. Austen has long been used as a token payment, a small proportion of the sum of respect due to the achievement of women in our culture. To have her making another nominal payment on behalf of us all is just as it should be. In that sense, Jane Austen has always been on the money. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Emotion is overshadowing fundamentals in gold right now and several factors point to a long-term bullish move in the metal, two gold bulls told "Squawk on the Street" Thursday.  "It all depends on Fed policy," said James Rickards, managing director at Tangent Capital, who expects deflation fears to outweigh the Fed's desire to taper. Right now, he said, the fact that real rates are above inflation is a bearish signal for gold, and expectations of continued policy tightening is also pushing down prices. (Related: Gold's Decline Is Feeding on Itself, Pros Say) "The case for buying gold is that the Fed is going to back off," he said. "They're not going to taper later this year. They'll actually going to increase asset purchases because deflation is winning the tug of war between deflation and inflation. Deflation is the Fed's worst nightmare." "In the next two months, the Fed is going to make it clear that they will not taper," he predicts. "That's very bullish for gold." Aside from Fed policy, Rickards expects China to start buying gold at these low levels, up to perhaps 4,000 tons. "People will say 'Why is China buying gold if it's so worthless?' " he said. (Related: Fed's Dudley: QE Could Increase If Labor Market Doesn't Improve) Tom McClellan, editor of the McClellan Market Report newsletter, is also bullish on gold, comparing the technical level of the commodity to the 2009 bottom in the stock market. "It's the same emotional play that's going on, people falling out of love with stocks back then, people falling out of love with gold now," McClellan said. "We're reaching the climax point equivalent for the March 2009 low for the stock market." "It's a hugely bullish condition for gold and i'm expecting a really large rebound," he said. Rickards said that the destination for gold is $7,000 per ounce, although tightening of Fed policy could drive it down to $1,000 on the way there. (Related: Rout Puts Gold on Pace for Largest Quarterly Loss in Decades) McClellan's target is between $2,800 and $4,400, based on his own technical analysis, although he did not dismiss the $7,000 level. He said that we haven't yet seen a "blow up moment" in the gold market yet. "The moment that we see a major gold producer announcing that it's curtailing production or it's going out of business, that'll be the moment that we mark the low in gold. I expect to have one of those announcements any minute." "We're getting down to the production price of gold right now and they won't continue producing gold at that level for very long," McClellan said. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's Paul Toscano.  and get the latest stories from "Squawk on the Street" . ¬† Emotion is overshadowing fundamentals in¬†gold¬†right now and several factors point to a long-term bullish move in the metal, two gold bulls told¬†"Squawk on the Street"¬†Thursday. "It all depends on Fed policy," said James Rickards, managing director at Tangent Capital, who expects deflation fears to outweigh the Fed's desire to taper. Right now, he said, the fact that real rates are above inflation is a bearish signal for gold, and expectations of continued policy tightening is also pushing down prices.¬† (Related:¬†Gold's Decline Is Feeding on Itself, Pros Say) "The case for buying gold is that the Fed is going to back off," he said. "They're not going to taper later this year. They'll actually going to increase asset purchases because deflation is winning the tug of war between deflation and inflation. Deflation is the Fed's worst nightmare." "In the next two months, the Fed is going to make it clear that they will not taper," he predicts. "That's very bullish for gold." Aside from Fed policy, Rickards expects China to start buying gold at these low levels, up to perhaps 4,000 tons. "People will say 'Why is China buying gold if it's so worthless?' " he said.¬† (Related:¬†Fed's Dudley: QE Could Increase If Labor Market Doesn't Improve) Tom McClellan, editor of the¬†McClellan Market Report¬†newsletter, is also bullish on gold, comparing the technical level of the commodity to the 2009 bottom in the stock market.¬† "It's the same emotional play that's going on, people falling out of love with stocks back then, people falling out of love with gold now," McClellan said. "We're reaching the climax point equivalent for the March 2009 low for the stock market."¬† "It's a hugely bullish condition for gold and i'm expecting a really large rebound," he said.¬† Rickards said that the destination for gold is $7,000 per ounce, although tightening of Fed policy could drive it down to $1,000 on the way there. (Related:¬†Rout Puts Gold on Pace for Largest Quarterly Loss in Decades) McClellan's target is between $2,800 and $4,400, based on his own technical analysis, although he did not dismiss the $7,000 level. He said that we haven't yet seen a "blow up moment" in the gold market yet. "The moment that we see a major gold producer announcing that it's curtailing production or it's going out of business, that'll be the moment that we mark the low in gold. I expect to have one of those announcements any minute."¬† "We're getting down to the production price of gold right now and they won't continue producing gold at that level for very long," McClellan said. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's Paul Toscano.¬† ¬†
It has become increasingly fashionable in the past few weeks to regard the great era of accelerating growth among the so-called emerging economies as over. I think this is wrong.Many who play the financial markets are confusing two things: the consequences of the beginning of the end of the Federal Reserve Boardís easy monetary policy; and the policies and issues which drive long-term sustainable growth in many economies. It should be no surprise that, as markets start to believe that the Fedís degree of accommodation is turning, there will be consequences for all financial markets, especially ones sensitive to interest rates. That includes markets in the emerging world. Indeed, economies which have been indirectly benefiting from a period of sustained easy money in the US ñ covering up their own shortfalls, including balance of payments, current account imbalances and domestic savings shortfalls ñ are likely to see trickier times. In the emerging world, this is probably relevant to two of the four BRIC economies, Brazil and India, as well as a number of others, perhaps including Turkey. This should not be confused with their own long-term economic outlook or financial markets. Ultimately, their growth will depend on what they do in terms of their demographics and productivity; the Fedís monetary policy will have very little impact. It is close to 12 years since I created the BRIC acronym and nearly a decade since my colleagues and I began examining what the world would look like by 2050. These long-term projections were driven over five yearly intervals by their likely demographic trends and assumptions we made about their productivity. We made no assumptions about any financial market developments or monetary policies, although it was quite clear to us that there would be profound consequences for the world markets from the emergence of the BRIC and so-called Next 11 economies: the group of the 11 next largest economies by population after the four BRIC countries. In the first decade of BRIC life their actual growth was much stronger than we had anticipated, as I showed in my book, The Growth Map. In a forthcoming book, I will show that in this decade, 2011-2020, the growth of the BRIC economies will probably be slower than in the last, but growth in the N11 economies is likely to be stronger. The world economy could grow by more than in the past three decades, even with the BRIC countries growing by less ñ not least because their impact, especially that of China, will be much larger. As I have said in previous columns, if China grows by 7.5pc, this will be effectively the same impact as if the US grew by 4pc. A fortnight ago I made a very short visit to the state of Gujarat at the invitation of its chief minister, Narendra Modi, and was asked to give my thoughts on Indiaís long-term potential. I referred to a 2008 paper on 10 key things India must do to fulfil its potential; it is striking how few of those things have been done. That could be interpreted as showing that India will never reach its potential, but it could also mean that, if it moves in the right direction, it can still achieve much stronger growth ñ stronger even than the 7pc to 8pc I am assuming for this decade. I returned home thinking that it might do so and plan to update that paper with input from some of the worldís top experts, presenting specific targets for Indian policymakers. Around half of them are pretty applicable to much of the emerging world, and if progress is made in these areas, then the worldís future will be much healthier, regardless of what happens to US monetary policy. The first task is perhaps the toughest and that is its governance. I heard Mr Modiís great slogan: ìMore governance, less government.î In some ways, this may be at the heart of the protests in Brazil and even Turkey. Their citizens donít want bigger governments that squander public resources; they simply want their governments to provide an environment for a better life. Many of these countries need to improve their leadership in terms of deliverability and accountability. A second requirement is for better educational outcomes, at both the most basic and more sophisticated levels. In an age of information technology, there is no excuse for any of our children not to be given access to a basic education. All major emerging economies should set themselves a 10 to 20-year target of having the number of top-class, internationally recognised universities that their share of global GDP would imply. In terms of macroeconomic policy, many of these countries are in better shape than India and donít have much to learn from the rest of us about targeting low, stable inflation and low, sustainable public finances. Some of them need to boost their share of global trade and most are trying to do this. A third goal is to boost their infrastructure, both physical and in terms of modern technology. Many people ask: what is the purpose of the BRICS Development Bank? One answer should be to concentrate on targeted infrastructure improvements in all their economies, targets that can be assessed by their people and have a dramatic impact on their efficiency. I am sure there are many other things each of the major emerging economies also need to do, but if targeted progress could be achieved in each of these areas, then I suspect the great era of emerging economic growth is not ending, but just beginning. South Korea is an example to many in the emerging world about how to move beyond the middle-income trap. This is especially applicable to the likes of Brazil and Turkey at the moment. One day we may look back on this turbulence as a mere stepping stone on their paths to future greatness. Jim OíNeill is former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management and chairman of education charity Shine (wwwshinetrust.org.uk) 
The Economist estimates that world growth slowed to a 2.1% pace in Q1 13, down a full percentage point from Q1 12. ¬† ¬†The high incomes countries are barely growing net-net. ¬†Europe is largely in recession. ¬†US growth in Q1 has been revised lower. ¬†The prospects for Q2 look poor. ¬†US growth has not improved, though the euro zone contraction may have eased, it is still appears to be contracting.¬† Japanese growth is likely to lead again, with both exports and domestic consumption continuing to recover. ¬† Emerging market often grow faster than the high income countries, though it does not always lead to superior asset returns. ¬†The BRICS have slowed, as have other emerging markets. ¬†The sharp rise in global interest rates starting in late-May will not help matters. ¬†The increase in interest rates is not a reflection of greater demand for capital due to increased activity. ¬†Rather the rise in rates reflects portfolio adjustments in response to the tapering talk the US (less stimulus is not the same thing as no stimulus), continued selling of foreign assets by Japanese investors, and the liquidity squeeze in China. ¬† With the Fed officials trying to help the market understood the meaning of its forward guidance and the acute phase of the Chinese squeeze being alleviated, rates ease and stabilize. ¬†There remains a reasonable chance that global growth picks up late Q3 or early Q4. ¬† Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
TORONTO (AP) ‚Äî The world's largest gold mining company said Friday it is slowing construction of its massive Pascua-Lama project in the Andes Mountains and will likely take a writedown of between $4.5 billion and $5.5 billion in the second quarter on the project. Barrick Gold Corp. said it now will target first production by mid-2016 compared to the previous schedule of the second half of 2014. Falling gold prices, rising costs and a sagging stock price weighed down by its Pascua-Lama project have plagued the Canadian company. Since late 2011, the gold price has fallen by $600 ‚Äî over 30 percent. Last month, Chile's environmental regulator stopped construction and imposed sanctions on the $8.5 billion Pascua Lama mine, citing "serious violations" of its environmental permit. An indigenous community has complained the project threatens their water supply and pollutes the glaciers. Barrick has already spent about $5 billion on the project, which straddles the Chile-Argentine border at 16,400 feet (5,000 meters) above sea level. Barrick said it has submitted a plan, subject to approval by regulators in Chile, to construct a water management system in compliance with permit conditions. Argentine authorities have insisted that Lama, their side of the bi-national project, will proceed with or without Chile, taking advantage of the infrastructure already in place for its Veladero mine, which is already producing ore just downhill. But most of Pascua-Lama's 18 million ounces of gold and 676 million ounces of silver are in Chile, where Barrick warned shareholders earlier this year that it might abandon the project if production can't begin in 2013. "In light of the challenging business environment we are facing today, and taking into consideration existing construction delays, the company is advancing the project in a prudent manner by extending the construction schedule over a longer period," Barrick President and Chief Executive Jamie Sokalsky said in a statement. Sokalsky promised shareholders in April that Barrick was committed to be focus on producing returns for investors. Shares of Barrick and almost every major gold miner have hit new annual lows recently. Barrick ousted former CEO and President Aaron Regent a year ago, citing its disappointing share price performance. The stuck has plummeted from over $40 to less than $16 since then. Barrick said earlier this week it would eliminate 30 percent of the jobs at its corporate headquarters in Toronto. Barrick has 25,000 employees worldwide.
