REUTERS/Stefano RellandiniThe Monte dei Paschi bank headquarters is pictured in Siena August 16, 2013. MILAN (Reuters) - A delay to vital fundraising at Banca Monte dei Paschi di¬†Siena&lt;BMPS.MI&gt; has increased the risk that Italy's third-biggest bank has to be nationalized, a move the government would like to avoid. Shareholders led by the biggest investor in the bailed-out bank rejected plans for a 3 billion euro ($4 billion) share sale in January and postponed the capital raising until after May 12. The bank's chairman and its chief executive may resign following the unprecedented clash with the main shareholder in the¬†Siena-based lender, a charitable banking foundation with close ties to local politicians. The focus of attention now turns to¬†Rome¬†where both the economy ministry, which has oversight of banking foundations, and the¬†Bank of Italy¬†are closely following events. The world's oldest bank needs to tap investors for cash to pay back 4.1 billion euros in state aid it received earlier this year and avert nationalization after being hammered by the euro zone debt crisis and loss-making derivatives trades. The capital increase is part of a tough restructuring plan agreed with the¬†European Commission¬†in order to receive clearance for the state bailout. A Treasury spokesman said the government's priority was to give the bailout money back to taxpayers and it had no interest in nationalizing¬†Monte Paschi, ANSA news agency reported on Sunday evening. Sources said the Treasury will continue to encourage all parties involved to find a solution, ANSA reported. Monte Paschi¬†Chairman Alessandro Profumo, an internationally respected banker who was formerly the chief of UniCredit &lt;CRDI.MI&gt;, said on Saturday he and chief executive Fabrizio Viola would decide whether to step down next month. A board meeting is expected around mid-January. Profumo and Viola had already secured a pool of banks to guarantee the rights issue, but only if it was carried out by the end of January. They said the delay makes fundraising harder because of likely competition from other Italian and European lenders prompted to seek new capital by an upcoming sector health check, and could precipitate the Tuscan bank's nationalization. By forcing a postponement of the rights issue, the cash-strapped Monte dei Paschi foundation - whose stake in the bank is big enough to veto any unwanted decision - is hoping to win more time to sell down its 33.5 percent holding and repay its own debts. The foundation head¬†Antonella Mansi¬†said that carrying out the capital increase in January would massively dilute the foundation's holding, leaving it with virtually nothing to sell to reimburse debts of 340 million euros. ($1 = 0.7258 euros) (Reporting by Valentina Za; Editing by Erica Billingham)
REUTERS/Stringer The Chaparrastique volcano, behind electricity cables, spews ash at the municipality of San Miguel December 29, 2013. The Chaparrastique volcano in eastern El Salvador belched a column of hot ash high into the air on Sunday, frightening nearby residents and prompting authorities to order evacuations in the area. There were no immediate reports of injuries in the San Miguel region, where the volcano is located and that is known for its coffee plantations. The weekend is over and markets are mostly higher. Japan's Nikkei just opened up 0.6%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is up 0.48%. U.S. futures are down a notch, as are gold and oil. We are back to a full week of economic data, click here to check out our preview ¬ª
Google ImagesThe Mastercoin logosAt least 14 digital currencies, including Bitcoin, are now worth more than $1, according to Coinmarketcap.com. Bitcoin prices on the Mt. Gox exchange have climbed back up to $800. Litecoin, which bills itself as the "silver" to Bitcoin's gold and is often accepted by retailers taking Bitcoin, surpassed $1 months ago and now stands at $24. But many lesser-known currencies have broken through the $1 threshold. While Litecoin has the second-largest market cap behind Bitcoin, it is Mastercoin, a cryptocurrency created in October that integrates with Bitcoin's core protocol to make it safer as well as more flexible, that is now the second-most-valuable alt-coin. One Mastercoin is now worth $180.25. Next up is Bitbar, an alternative currency initially created to be "ultra rare" and thus climb in value with the goal of drawing attention to the digital currency world. One Bitbar is now worth $44, though the project seems to have gone dormant. For all the press its recently received, Dogecoin fails to make this list, its value stuck at¬†$ 0.00045.¬† Anyway, each of the ones worth more than $1 have thus climbed in value for their own intrinsic reasons. They also remain extremely volatile, and there's no way of telling which ones will see breakout surges or collapses. But it shows that society is starting to place intrinsic value in the concept of a digital currency ‚Äî providing some context for this weekend's digital currency debate between Paul Krugman and Brad De Long. Full list: Bitcoin: ~$800 (Mt. Gox price) Mastercoin: $180.25 Bitbar: $44 Litecoin: $24.15 Protoshares: $19.59 Novacoin: $13.72 Unobtanium: $6.30 Namecoin: $5 Anoncoin: $4.61 Peercoin: $4.28 Primecoin: $2.68 Franko: $2.31 Cryptogenic Bullion: $2.21 Diamond: $2.20
 // <![CDATA[OO.ready(function() { OO.Player.create('ooyalaplayer', 'xvOGxuNDopev44vAKkv-MqN-RVCqWvIx', {"autoplay":true}); });// ]]> † As we get ready to welcome 2014, we are bringing back some of the best work-life balance advice we've received from industry leaders to help us prioritize our New Year's resolutions. Watch Jim O'Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, share his daily routine and invaluable advice for those working long hours. Produced by Kamelia Angelova, William Wei &amp; Robert Libetti. Follow us on YouTube &gt;
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidNext semester, 200 lucky Princeton students will have the opportunity to take†The Great Recession: Causes, Consequences, and Remedies with professor Paul Krugman. The reading list is stacked (and we can't believe that only 178 students are currently signed up†to take a class with a Nobel Prize winner, according to Princeton's office of the registrar). "The course will begin by reviewing the causes of the recession that began in December 2007. It will concentrate on consumer behavior, financial markets, unemployment, and the housing sector," according to the course description. "The role of public policies in contributing to the economic crisis and in ending the crisis will be explored. The state of the recovery will be assessed and monitored." Regular Krugman readers will recognize many of the texts from his bloggings at the New York Times, but it's cool to see them laid out all syllabus style. You can follow along at home all semester. Things get a little more free-form by April, but the midterm is on March 12, kids (via David Dayen): Feb. 3: Overview Eichengreeen and OíRourke, ìA Tale of Two Depressionsî† DeLong, ìThe Great Depression from the perspective of todayî Nick Crafts, ìIf only it were the 1930sî NIESR Feb. 5: Basic short-run macro† Hicks, ìMr. Keynes and the classicsî  Krugman, ìIS-LMentaryî David Romer, ìShort-run fluctuationsî Feb. 10: The Great Moderation  Bernanke, ìThe great moderationî Blanchard and Simon, ìThe decline in U.S. output variabilityî Feb. 12: Bubbles  Shiller, ìFrom efficient markets theory to behavioral financeî  Greenspan 2004 Minsky moment FCIC report,†part III  Feb. 17: Crisis models  Diamond-Dybvig Gorton, ìSlapped in the faceî Bernanke, ìThe crisis as a classic financial panicî Feb. 19: The panic  FCIC report, part IV  Feb. 24: Bailout  TARP Feb. 26: Stimulus  Romer-Bernstein Assessment CBO on ARRA Where the money went Mar. 3: War among the economists  Krugman on economists Fama Cochrane Lucas Mar. 5: The end of the panic Economic Report of the President, 2010 Mar. 10: Global spread and stabilization IMF World Economic Outlook IMF Mar. 12: Midterm Mar. 24: The euro Euro@10 Mar. 26: The euro crisis  OíRourke and Taylor Eichengreen et al, ìThe mother of all sudden stopsî Mar. 31: Austerity debates I: Short-run effects  Krugman, Liquidity preference Krugman, ìMyths of austerityî Alesina and Ardagna IMF I IMF II Apr. 2: Austerity debates II: Debt  Greenlaw et al, ìCrunch timeî De Grauwe Reinhart-Rogoff and all that Apr. 7: Monetary debates I, Inflation or deflation?  Meltzer, ìInflation nationî Feldstein, ìInflation is loomingî  CFR symposium 2009 Krugman Apr. 9: Monetary policy II, quantitative easing  The data Blinder, a primer Woodford on forward guidance Abenomics, TK  Apr. 14: Unemployment, structural or cyclical  Edward Lazear Beveridge curve analyses TK Apr. 16: Hysteresis  DeLong and Summers Reifschneider et al April 21: Long-run fiscal outlook Latest CBO projections  April 23: Crisis stories  Blanchard on Latvia IMF on Iceland  April 28: Secular stagnation?  Summers speech Krugman on Summers  April 30: The new normal?
REUTERS/Neil HallIf you're considering going to Wall Street, you should really know what you're getting into. Yes, you will get paid better than average people all over the world. Yes, you will get to learn new things constantly. And yes, you will be involved in important deals (well, hopefully). You're also likely to meet some extraordinary people. However, there are downsides, and they are generally all in your head. A Wall Street veteran, who will remain anonymous, gave us a laundry list of ways working on the Street can actually ruin your life. Wall Streeters have to deal with a distorted sense of money, questions about self-worth, arrested development and most importantly, the fact that they never ever have enough time. They can try and pay for it, but that only gets you so much. The point is ‚Äî you better love finance if you're getting into this business, because it's going to take over your life.
Michelle Young/Untapped CitiesMADRID¬†(Reuters) -¬†Spanish police¬†on Sunday said they had arrested eight people suspected of helping to steal more than $60 million from banks worldwide by hacking into credit card processing firms and withdrawing money from cash machines. The arrests are one of the biggest breakthroughs yet outside the¬†United States¬†in connection with a series of global bank heists, coordinated across numerous countries by cells which withdrew millions of dollars in a matter of hours. Spanish police¬†said in a statement they had detained six Romanian citizens and two Moroccans on the outskirts of¬†Madrid, and seized 25,000 euros ($34,400) in cash as well as around 1,000 blank credit cards, IT material and jewels after several building searches. The statement said the global hacking gang had been controlled by a single person, who had been arrested in¬†Germany. The police could not be reached for comment on when the alleged mastermind had been detained. German prosecutors said in May they had arrested two Dutch citizens suspected of taking part in a $45 million cyber heist involving two Middle Eastern banks. Prosecutors in Duesseldorf could not immediately be reached for comment on Sunday. The¬†Spanish police¬†statement said they had acted with the help of an unnamed U.S. security agency. "The bulk of the organization based in¬†Spain¬†has been dismantled when it was starting to regroup to carry out an attack similar to previous ones, in various¬†European Union¬†countries and including in¬†Japan," the police said. They said the ringleader was an IT expert who hacked into the databases used by credit card processing firms and could modify security settings, including PIN number restrictions and withdrawal limits, before getting cells worldwide to fake credit cards using some of the information. The swiftness and scale of the heists was revealed earlier this year, when U.S. prosecutors arrested seven men suspected of the Middle Eastern bank thefts. Around $45 million was stolen in several attacks using faked cards bearing the names of two banks, prosecutors said, with some $40 million raided from ATMs in 24 countries in just over 10 hours in February. Spanish police¬†said on Sunday 446 withdrawals took place in¬†Madrid¬†during a February raid, with the Spanish-based arm of the ring obtaining $400,000 in a heist totaling $40 million. They did not confirm which banks had been involved. Previous raids had involved withdrawals in other Spanish cities and global takings by the crime ring amounted to over $60 million, they said. Six further people were arrested and charged in the¬†United States¬†in November in connection with the million Middle Eastern bank theft. (Reporting by Sarah White; Additional reporting by Alexandra Hudson in Berlin; Editing by Erica Billingham)
Patrick Kovarik/AFPFrench President Francois Hollande speaks during a press conference at the Elysee Palace in Paris on April 10, 2013France's top court on Sunday approved a proposal for companies to pay 75 percent tax on annual salaries exceeding one million euros in line with President Francois Hollande's drive to limit executive pay at a time of economic hardship. The Constitutional Council had earlier in the year thrown out one of Hollande's key campaign pledges to impose a 75 percent tax on individuals earning more than one million euros ($1.35 million). The rejection of that proposal exempted those who had a significant inheritance but low incomes from coming under the 75 percent tax bracket. After that setback, Hollande in March mooted a proposal to make companies pay for top earners. He had said the idea was "not to punish" but added that he hoped it would spur companies to lower executive pay at a time when the economy is suffering, unemployment is soaring and workers are being asked to accept wage cuts. Hollande has pledged to rein in spiralling unemployment by the end of 2013. The government's belt-tightening budget for 2014 aims to bring down the public deficit from the current level of 4.1 percent to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) through spending cuts totalling 15 billion euros ($20 billion) and new taxes. The surtax on companies posting a turnover of more than 250 million euros has been doubled, a measure that is expected to bring in 2.5 billion euros a year. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
APBOSTON (Reuters) - A hacker secretly took over a computer server at the BBC, Britain's public broadcaster, and then launched a Christmas Day campaign to convince other cyber criminals to pay him for access to the system. While it is not known if the hacker found any buyers, the BBC's security team responded to the issue on Saturday and believes it has secured the site, according to a person familiar with the cleanup effort. A BBC spokesman declined to discuss the incident. "We do not comment on security issues," he said. Reuters could not determine whether the hackers stole data or caused any damage in the attack, which compromised a server that manages an obscure password-protected website. It was not clear how the BBC, the world's oldest and largest broadcaster, uses that site, ftp.bbc.co.uk, though ftp systems are typically used to manage the transfer of large data files over the Internet. The attack was first identified by¬†Hold Security LLC, a cybersecurity firm in¬†Milwaukee¬†that monitors underground cyber-crime forums in search of stolen information. The firm's researchers observed a notorious Russian hacker known by the monikers "HASH" and "Rev0lver," attempting to sell access to the BBC server on December 25, the company's founder and chief information security officer,¬†Alex Holden, told Reuters. "HASH" sought to convince high-profile hackers that he had infiltrated the site by showing them files that could only be accessed by somebody who really controlled it,¬†Holden¬†said. So far Hold Security researchers have found no evidence the conversations led to a deal or that data was stolen from the BBC,¬†Holden¬†said. It is common for hackers to buy and sell access to compromised servers on underground forums. Buyers view the access as a commodity that grants them the chance to further penetrate the victim organization. They can also use compromised servers to set up command-and-control centers for cyber-crime operations known as botnets, run spam campaigns or launch denial of service attacks to knock websites off line. The BBC offer stands out because the media company is such a high-profile organization,¬†Holden¬†said. "It's definitely a notch in someone's belt." BBC has some 23,000 staff and is funded largely by license fees paid by every British household with a television. Justin Clarke, a principal consultant for the cybersecurity firm Cylance Inc, said that while "HASH" was only offering access to an obscure ftp server, some buyers might see it as a stepping stone to more prized assets within the BBC. "Accessing that server establishes a foothold within BBC's network which may allow an attacker to pivot and gain further access to internal BBC resources," he said. Media companies, including the BBC, have repeatedly been targeted by the¬†Syrian Electronic Army, which supports Syrian President¬†Bashar al-Assad, and other hacker activist groups that deface websites and take over Twitter accounts. Last January the¬†New York Times¬†reported that it had been repeatedly attacked over four months by Chinese hackers who obtained employees' passwords. (Additional reporting by Belinda Goldsmith in London and Mark Hosenball in Washington; Editing by Ross Colvin and Eric Beech)
Flickr/decar66WASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî A global retirement crisis is bearing down on workers of all ages. Spawned years before the Great Recession and the financial meltdown in 2008, the crisis was significantly worsened by those twin traumas. It will play out for decades, and its consequences will be far-reaching. Many people will be forced to work well past the traditional retirement age of 65 ‚Äî to 70 or even longer. Living standards will fall, and poverty rates will rise for the elderly in wealthy countries that built safety nets for seniors after World War II. In developing countries, people's rising expectations will be frustrated if governments can't afford retirement systems to replace the tradition of children caring for aging parents. The problems are emerging as the generation born after World War II moves into retirement. "The first wave of under-prepared workers is going to try to go into retirement and will find they can't afford to do so," says Norman Dreger, a retirement specialist in Frankfurt, Germany, who works for Mercer, a global consulting firm. The crisis is a convergence of three factors: ‚Äî Countries are slashing retirement benefits and raising the age to start collecting them. These countries are awash in debt after overspending last decade and racking up enormous deficits since the recession. Now, they face a demographics disaster as retirees live longer and falling birth rates mean there will be fewer workers to support them. ‚Äî Companies have eliminated traditional pension plans that cost employees nothing and guaranteed them a monthly check in retirement. ‚Äî Individuals spent freely and failed to save before the recession, and they saw much of their wealth disappear once it hit. Those factors have been documented individually. What is less appreciated is their combined ferocity and their global scope. "Most countries are not ready to meet what is sure to be one of the defining challenges of the 21st century," the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington think tank, concluded in a report this fall. Mikio Fukushima, who is 52 and lives in Tokyo, is typical of those facing an uncertain retirement. Fukushima, who works in private investment, worries that he might have to move somewhere cheaper, maybe Malaysia, after age 70 to get by comfortably on income from his investments and a public pension of just $10,000 a year. If he stayed in Japan, he says, "We wouldn't be able to travel at all." People like Fukushima who are fretting over their retirement prospects stand in contrast to many who are already retired. Many workers were recipients of generous corporate pensions and government benefits that had yet to be cut. Jean-Pierre Bigand, 66, retired Sept. 1, in time to enjoy all the perks of a retirement system in France that's now in peril. Bigand lives in the countryside outside the city of Rouen in Normandy. He has a second home in Provence. He's just taken a vacation on Oleron island off the Atlantic Coast and is planning a five-week trip to Guadeloupe. "Travel is our biggest expense," he says. In Rochester, Minn., Elaine Case, 58, and her husband, Bill Wiktor, 61, both retired at 56 after three-decade careers at IBM. They have company pensions and will receive Social Security in a few years. They love to travel. Wiktor climbed Mount Kilimanjaro last year. They've taken a trans-Atlantic cruise and plan next year to hike Peru's Inca trail. "We're both enjoying our second lives immensely and with gratitude," Case says. The notion of extended, leisurely retirements, like the ones Bigand, Case and Wiktor are enjoying, is relatively new. German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck established the world's first state pension system in 1889. The United States introduced Social Security in 1935. In the prosperous years after World War II, governments in rich countries expanded their pension systems. In addition, companies began to offer pensions that paid employees a guaranteed amount each month in retirement ‚Äî so-called defined-benefit pensions. It got even better in the 1980s. Many countries began to coax older employees out of the workforce to make way for the young. They did so by reducing the age employees became eligible for full government pension benefits. The age fell from 64.3 years in 1949 to 62.4 years in 1999 in the relatively wealthy countries that belong to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. That created a new, and perhaps unrealistic, "concept of retirement as an extended period of leisure, " Mercer consultant Dreger says. "You'd take long vacations. That was the Golden Age." Then came the 21st century. UNDER SIEGE As the 2000s dawned, governments ‚Äî and companies ‚Äî looked at actuarial tables and birth rates and decided they couldn't afford the pensions they'd promised. People were living longer: The average man in 30 countries the OECD surveyed will live 19 years after retirement. That's up from 13 years in 1958, when many countries were devising their generous pension plans. The OECD says the average retirement age would have to reach 66 or 67, from 63 now, to "maintain control of the cost of pensions" from longer lifespans. Compounding the problem is that birth rates are falling just as the bulge of people born in developed countries after World War II retires. Populations are aging rapidly as a result. The higher the percentage of older people, the harder it is for a country to finance its pension system because relatively fewer younger workers are paying taxes. In China, the 65-and-older population will rise from 11 percent of the working-age population in 2010 to 42 percent in 2050. In the United States, this old-age dependency ratio will rise from 20 percent to 35 percent. In response, governments are raising retirement ages and slashing benefits. In 30 OECD countries, the average age at which men can collect full retirement benefits will rise to 64.6 in 2050, from 62.9 in 2010; for women, it will rise from 61.8 to 64.4. Italy is raising the age from 59 to 65. In the wealthy countries it studied, the OECD found that the pension reforms of the 2000s will cut retirement benefits by an average 20 percent. Even France, where government pensions have long been generous, has begun modest reforms to reduce costs. France has raised the number of years people must work before they can receive a full pension from 41.5 to 43. More changes are likely coming. "France is a retirees' paradise now," says Richard Jackson, senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "You're not going to want to retire there in 20 to 25 years." The fate of government pensions is important because they are the cornerstone of retirement income. Across the 34-country OECD, governments provide 59 percent of retiree income, on average. The government's share ranges as high as 86 percent in Hungary. In the United States, the world's largest economy, it's about 38 percent. If rich countries don't cut pension costs even more, says Standard &amp; Poor's, a credit-rating agency, their government debt will more than triple as a percentage of annual economic output by 2050. The debt of most countries would drop to what is commonly called junk status. Many of those facing a financial squeeze in retirement can look to themselves for part of the blame. They spent many years before the Great Recession borrowing and spending instead of setting money aside for old age. In the U.S., households took on an additional $5.4 trillion in debt ‚Äî an increase of 75 percent ‚Äî from the start of 2003 until mid-2008, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The savings rate fell from nearly 13 percent of after-tax income in the early 1980s to 2 percent in 2005. The National Institute on Retirement Security estimates that Americans are at least $6.8 trillion short of what they need to have saved for a comfortable retirement. For those 55 to 64, the shortfall comes to $113,000 per household. "People are going to be shocked at how little they have," says Alicia Munnell, director of Boston College's Center for Retirement Research. "For some middle-income people, it will mean canceling the RV" ‚Äî the recreational vehicle that has become a symbol of retiree life in America. For those worse off, she says, it could mean an old age in poverty. As if demographics weren't burden enough, the outlook became worse when the global banking system went into a panic in 2008 and tipped the world into the worst recession since the 1930s. Government budget deficits ‚Äî the gap between what governments spend each year and what they collect in taxes ‚Äî swelled in Europe and the United States. Tax revenue shrank, and governments pumped money into rescuing their banks and financing unemployment benefits and other welfare programs. That escalated pressure on governments to reduce spending on pensions or raise revenue. Hungary took one of the most draconian steps: It demanded that its citizens surrender their private retirement accounts to the government or give up their government pensions. Poland seized a portion of private retirement accounts. Ireland imposed an annual tax on retirement accounts. The Great Recession threw tens of millions of people out of work worldwide. For many who kept their jobs, pay has stagnated the past five years, even as living costs have risen, making it tougher to save for retirement. In addition, government retirement benefits are based on lifetime earnings, and they'll now be lower. The Urban Institute, a think tank in Washington, estimates that lost wages and pay raises will shrink the typical American worker's income at age 70 by 4 percent ‚Äî an average of $2,300 a year. Leslie Lynch, 52, of Glastonbury, Conn., had $30,000 in her 401(k) retirement account when she lost her $65,000-a-year job last year at an insurance company. She'd worked there 28 years. She has depleted her retirement savings trying to stay afloat. "I don't believe that I will ever retire now," she says. She also worries about her children, all in their 20s: "I don't think my three sons will ever retire" because pay raises have been so weak for so long. Less money from a government pension isn't the only factor weighing on future retirees. When the financial crisis struck five years ago, the world's central banks cut interest rates to record lows to stop the economic free-fall. That also punished people with much of their money in investments that pay interest. "The low-interest rate environment has been brutal," says Catherine Collinson, president of the Transamerica Center for Retirement Studies. She points out that $500,000 in savings would yield $25,000 a year at an interest rate of 5 percent, just $2,500 at 0.5 percent. The crisis also frightened many away from the stock market. Stocks can be riskier than other investments, but they yield more long term. Many investors have shunned stocks while the world's stock markets have soared. In the United States, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen nearly 150 percent since March 2009. Japan's Nikkei index is up 56 percent just this year. The past five years have been so tumultuous that some people have been reluctant to invest at all. Olivia Mitchell, who studies retirement at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, says her grown daughters rebuffed her when she urged them to save more for retirement. Stocks, they said, are too risky. And bonds don't yield enough interest to be worth the bother. In Asia, workers are facing a different retirement worry, a byproduct of their astonishing economic growth. Traditionally, Chinese and Koreans could expect their grown children to care for them as they aged. But newly prosperous young people increasingly want to live on their own. They also are more likely to move to distant cities to take jobs, leaving parents behind. Countries like China and South Korea are at an "awkward" stage, says Jackson at the Center for Strategic and International Studies: The old ways are vanishing, but new systems of caring for the aged aren't yet in place. Yoo Tae-we, 47, a South Korean manager at a trading company that imports semiconductor components, doesn't expect his son to support him as he and his siblings did their parents. "We have to prepare for our own futures rather than depending on our children," he says. South Korean public pensions pay an average of just $744 a month. South Korea has the rich world's highest poverty rate for the elderly. It has one of the world's highest suicide rates for the aged, too. China, too, will struggle to finance retirement. China pays generous pensions to civil servants and to urban workers who toiled in inefficient state-owned factories. These workers can retire early with full benefits - at 60 for men and 50 or 55 for women, depending on their job. Their pensions will prove to be a burden as China ages and each retiree is supported by contributions from fewer workers. The elderly are rapidly becoming a bigger share of China's population because of a policy begun in 1979 and only recently relaxed that limited couples to one child. The World Bank says the cost of those pensions could eventually reach twice the size of China's annual gross domestic product. That would put the bill at more than $16 trillion. China is considering raising its retirement ages. But the government would likely meet resistance. "I heard that the authorities might postpone the age of the retirement, but I sure hope not, since I've already worked for almost 42 years," says Dong Linhua, 59, a former Shanghai factory worker and now a real estate investor, who owns three apartments and two small shop spaces. China also tightly regulates investing, limiting access to assets that are more likely to generate the returns workers need to build a healthy retirement account. "Things that you and I take for granted, like being able to invest in mutual funds or being able to buy stocks and bonds, are in their infancy in China," says Josef Pilger, leader of Ernst &amp; Young's Asia-Pacific pension practice in Sydney, Australia. "The biggest fear the Chinese regulators have is: What if we relax investment restrictions and we have a financial crisis? People will be on the street, saying: 'You let me play with fire, and I burned my fingers.' " Governments aren't alone in cutting pensions. Corporations are, too. The traditional defined-benefit pensions they long had provided are vanishing. Companies don't want to bear the risks and costs of guaranteeing employees' pensions. They've moved instead to so-called defined-contribution plans, such as 401(k)s in the U.S., which shift responsibility for retirement savings to employees. The problem with these plans is that people have proved terrible at taking advantage of and managing them. They don't always enroll. They don't contribute enough. They dip into the accounts when they need money. They also make bad investment choices; often buying stocks when times are good and share prices are high and bailing when prices are low. Investment returns from defined-contribution plans are typically 0.76 percentage points lower than returns on defined-benefit plans, according to the consulting firm Towers Watson. That difference adds up: At a 5 percent annual return, $100,000 becomes $432,000 after 30 years. At 5.76 percent, it's 24 percent higher ‚Äî $537,000. Many have raided their retirement accounts to pay bills. In the United States, 26 percent of workers with 401(k) and other defined-contribution plans take loans or make hardship withdrawals before they reach retirement, according to a study by HelloWallet, which offers online services that help people with their finances. Working Americans withdraw $70 billion annually from retirement accounts ‚Äî an amount that's 40 percent of the $175 billion put in. Employers add an additional $118 billion. Retirement specialist Teresa Ghilarducci of the New School for Social Research in New York says the voluntary plans "work for a robot with an Excel spreadsheet," not for people trying to pay bills and care for children who aren't thinking decades ahead to retirement. Several countries are trying to force ‚Äî or nudge ‚Äî workers to save more for retirement. Australia went the furthest, the soonest. It passed a law in 1993 that makes retirement savings mandatory. Employers must contribute the equivalent of 9.25 percent of workers' wages to 401(k)-style retirement accounts. (The required contributions will rise to 12 percent by 2020.) Australians can't withdraw money in their accounts before retirement. When politicians were debating the plan, only about half of Australians supported it. Within six months, approval rose to 85 percent. The difference: Workers started receiving statements that showed retirement savings piling up, says Nick Sherry, who helped design the program as a cabinet minister. In October 2012, Britain required employers to start automatically enrolling most employees in a pension plan. At the start, contributions must equal at least 2 percent of earnings, half provided by employers. By 2018, contributions must rise to 8 percent, of which 3 percentage points will come from employers. In 2006, the United States encouraged companies to require employees to opt out of a 401(k) instead of choosing to opt in. That means they start saving for retirement automatically if they make no decision. Rebounding stock prices around the world and a slow rise in housing prices are helping households recover their net worth. In the U.S., retirement accounts ‚Äî defined-contribution and defined-benefit plans combined ‚Äî hit a record $12.5 trillion the first three months of 2013, according to the Urban Institute. They've gone higher since. However, net worth is merely climbing toward a level considered inadequate at its peak in 2007. Boston College's Center for Retirement Research says the recovery in housing and stock prices still leaves 50 percent of American households at risk of being unable to maintain their standard of living in retirement. That's down from 53 percent in 2010 but up from 44 percent before the Great Recession hit in 2007. Only half of all Japanese say they've even thought about how to finance their retirement. And 63 percent are counting on getting most of their income from a government pension system that's going broke. When they look into the future, retirement experts see more changes in government pensions and longer careers than many workers had expected: ‚Äî Pension cuts are likely to hit most retirees but should fall hardest on the wealthy. Governments are likely to spend more on the poorest among the elderly, as well as the oldest, who will be in danger of outliving their savings. ‚Äî Those planning to work past 65 can take some comfort knowing they'll be healthier, overall, than older workers in years past. They'll also be doing jobs that aren't as physically demanding. In addition, life expectancy at 65 now stretches well into the 80s for people in the 34 OECD countries, an increase of about five years since the late 1950s. "My parents retired during the Golden Age of retirement," says Mercer consultant Dreger, 37. "My dad, who is 72, retired at 57. That's not going to happen to somebody in my generation." ___ McHugh reported from Frankfurt, Germany, Kurtenbach from Tokyo. AP writers Bernard Condon in New York, Fu Ting in Shanghai, Youkyung Lee in Seoul and Sylvie Corbet in Paris contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
ReutersT-Mobile CEO John Legere ‚Äî T-Mobile's ‚Äúuncarrier‚Äù strategy was one of the 10 best business decisions in 2013.‚ÄôTis the season for listicles, and most firms can‚Äôt get by with Santa‚Äôs timeless business strategy of low-cost, highly scalable elf labor. Instead, enduring success relies on the occasional bold, innovative, or even lucky move ‚Äî a smart call that positions a company to grow, ideally by better serving its customers‚Äô needs rather than just exploiting them. In no particular order, here are Moneybox‚Äôs favorite business moves of 2013. It‚Äôs questionable whether this or anything else will save the ailing midmarket department store, or indeed the very concept of the midmarket department store. But it‚Äôs clear that the company‚Äôs effort to reinvent itself under former Apple retail chief Ron Johnson as a slick, Wi-Fi-enabled, no-discounts shopping experience was a catastrophic flop. This year they brought back an old CEO, brought back discounts, and even though they‚Äôre still struggling,¬†sales trends are in the right direction. The Ron Johnson Catastrophe at J.C. Penney also managed to leave Apple‚Äôs retail operation adrift and listless. Tim Cook brought in John Browett, CEO of British mass-market superstore Tesco, who promptly alienated loyalists with a misguided cost-cutting drive before getting fired. Ahrendts, CEO of the far more upmarket British company Burberry, is a much better choice.¬† Apple‚Äôs retail stores are already insanely successful. They don‚Äôt need a retail chief who can squeeze extra dollars out of them; they need one who can build a lot more ‚Äî especially in Asia ‚Äî where Burberry has opened many more shops than Apple without compromising the brand‚Äôs value. Adding a woman to the executive team can‚Äôt hurt, either. The success of Yahoo shares under Marissa Mayer‚Äôs leadership is mostly a question of financial engineering ‚Äî the company has restructured its Asian holdings and done share buybacks ‚Äî which is really what Dan Loeb, the activist investor who put her in charge, was interested in. But Mayer‚Äôs had the strength and vision to sell the board on a strategy that isn‚Äôt just financial engineering, and throwing $1.1 billion in cash into buying Tumblr ‚Äî rather than handing it to shareholders ‚Äî is key to that deal. Tumblr brought tangible assets in terms of audience and social presence to the table, but it also served as a crucial signal to current and possibly future Yahoo employees that the company is serious about investing in its own long-term future. It might not work, but making the visionary play is an appealing contrast to an American corporate culture that tends to excessively focus on quarterly fluctuations in share prices. Google‚Äôs Chromecast television add-on isn‚Äôt revolutionary technology, but the $35 price point is beyond aggressive. Chromebook laptops starting at $199 aren‚Äôt quite as cheap but are in some ways even more aggressive. The culture of pursuing aggressive growth for the long term at the expense of short-term profits is common in Google‚Äôs online-services homeland, but it‚Äôs bracing to see Mountain View bringing the same spirit to consumer hardware. In a world where the global average income is still just $10,000 a year and all the population growth is happening in poorer places, making things cheaper still counts for a lot. The coffee giant has a perennial need for reliable people to do not especially glamorous work, and the Defense Department faces a constant challenge in finding gainful civilian employment for discharged veterans. Forging a partnership between the Pentagon and Starbucks is a natural solution to a concrete labor market issue. It‚Äôs also great brand extension. Starbucks is associated with a certain kind of upscale, effete lifestyle, but it‚Äôs already become ubiquitous in those markets and faces pressure for even more upscale joints with pour-over coffee and more complex flavors. A partnership with the military is a great way to give the company more of an all-American image and convince a broader swath of the population that they want to make room in their budget for pricey takeout coffee. Though it continues to face regulatory roadblocks in many cities, at this point the biggest barrier to the growth of Uber‚Äôs ride-hiring service is on the supply side: You can‚Äôt sell a ride unless you‚Äôve got a driver. With the national labor market still weak and Uber‚Äôs per-vehicle revenue high, demand for driving jobs is also high. But you still need a car to drive. By reaching a bit outside its core competences of software and customer service and partnering with Toyota and General Motors to get discount car loans for Uber drivers, Uber has taken a big step to solving the bottleneck. The car-loan program should also start turning Uber into a jobs machine, both on city streets and in the factories where the cars are built. The Internet has basically crushed the music industry‚Äôs traditional revenue model. Beyonc√©‚Äôs unorthodox decision to release an iTunes exclusive album in the dead of night with no promotion was a brilliant (if hard to replicate) countermove by a superstar. In a social media world, free publicity is the best kind of publicity, and the combination of surprise and artificial scarcity was a great way to get people to actually open their wallets for content. It‚Äôs easy to forget now, but it‚Äôs not so long ago that Netflix looked like a doomed company, having bungled the transition from discs in the mail to streaming video with the Quickster fiasco. But they reversed course, apologized, and plunged boldly ahead into producing and purchasing original television series on a mission to become the next decade‚Äôs HBO. After a little bit of stumbling, it seems to be working. Their streaming backend gives them a unique level of insight into what kinds of things viewers might want to watch (their adaptation of "House of Cards" was¬†partially cast by algorithmic analysis), and "Orange Is The New Black" has definitively established the non-network as a potential destination for genuinely innovative programming. One big problem with Amazon‚Äôs plan for same-day delivery of small items via quadrotor drone is that they don‚Äôt have the technology working yet. Another problem is that it‚Äôs currently illegal. Announcing the nonexistent product on "60 Minutes" is a smart way to make some lemonade. Get people talking about the potential benefits of this kind of delivery and you‚Äôre doing some¬†pre-lobbying on behalf of commercial drone legalization. Blocked by the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department from selling its T-Mobile unit to AT&amp;T, Deutsche Telekom had to do something with the perennial laggard of the U.S. mobile phone industry. And in 2013, they did ‚Äî¬†breaking with the faux-subsidy model in which carriers offer you a high-interest loan to lock you into overpriced mobile service. Now¬†T-Mobile has the best phone plans around and amazing free data deals for tablets. The ‚Äúuncarrier‚Äù strategy has been so successful that Sprint now wants to buy them, posing a tough question for regulators ‚Äî would a merger help scale up T-Mobile‚Äôs business innovations or throttle them in the crib?
twitter.com/ladygaga(Reuters) - New Year's Day will bring a fresh test for President†Barack Obama's healthcare overhaul, as hundreds of thousands of Americans will begin to use the program's new medical coverage for the first time. For the nation's healthcare system as well as its politics, the stakes are huge in Wednesday's launch of the program known as Obamacare. For anxious Democrats with an eye on the 2014 congressional elections, it is a chance for the†Obama administration†to rebound from the disastrous rollout of the website that enrolls people in private coverage through the program - and show that the†White House's effort to help millions of uninsured and underinsured Americans is finally gaining its footing. Or, as Republican congressman†Fred Upton†and other critics of Obamacare warned in recent days, Wednesday could represent the beginning of another debacle that fuels Republicans' push to make dissatisfaction with Obamacare the chief issue in the November elections. More immediately, the question is whether the program will work as advertised on January 1, after a chaotic enrollment period in which problems with the HealthCare.gov website led to a series of deadline extensions and undermined public support for Obamacare and the president. The†White House†said early Sunday that about 1.1 million people have enrolled in coverage plans through the federally run HealthCare.gov, which covers 36 states. That figure does not include the latest enrollment data from 14 states that run their own healthcare enrollment sites - including†California,†Connecticut,†Kentucky,†New Yorkand†Connecticut†- and where response to Obamacare has been enthusiastic, so the total enrollment nationally is likely more than 1.5 million. That is well short of the 3.3 million enrollees administration officials were hoping for by now, but it represents a dramatic improvement from a month ago, when barely 150,000 had signed up because of a series of technical problems with the HealthCare.gov site. Many of the newly insured under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act - about 975,000 on the federally run exchange - signed up just ahead of a deadline on December 24 to receive benefits on January 1, giving health insurers a tight framework to create accounts that can be accessed by doctors. One fear, as expressed by administration officials and insurance industry executives, is that some people who need medical care during the first days of 2014 will head to the doctor, only to find there is no record of their new insurance. That could mean patients would have to pay upfront and submit a bill to their insurance carriers later. And even though the Obamacare program is not directly responsible for the private insurance purchased through its online exchanges,†White House†officials have acknowledged that any early problems with the coverage are likely to reflect on the administration. Some insurance executives say that even a few stories of coverage problems during the next few weeks - which seems inevitable when dealing with such a massive program - could damage the reputations of the†White House and the healthcare overhaul. "The big moment of trust is 12:01 a.m. on January 1st, when a mother is standing in a pharmacy with a baby in her arms trying to get a script filled," Aetna Inc Chief Executive Mark Bertolini said this month. "Getting that information right so that we don't have these events which ultimately end up in our lap if we don't do them well, it's very important†for us all†to get it right." A senior administration official acknowledged that "there will be bumps in the road." "We need to plan for them, we need to anticipate and we need to make sure that we are ready to respond," the official said. Physicians say they are used to dealing with changes to patients' insurance coverage and it is not unusual for there to be lag times between enrolling in a new insurance policy and the time it becomes official. Some doctors will be willing to delay billing. Others may not be. "Come the start of the year there will be dueling narratives: the people who have never had insurance before who are actually getting decent care for the first time in their lives, and people who are having issues with the administration's new policies," said Dan Mendelson, chief executive of†Avalere Health, which has been tracking the healthcare overhaul. "They are going to kind of cancel each other out," he predicted. "Three months from now when we are in the electoral cycle, the policies will be judged on the basis of enrollment (numbers), rather than any technical problems." Mendelson expects the early 2014 problems to be limited given the light pace of enrollment spread out across the nation, and the fact that hospitals and other providers are experienced in troubleshooting coverage questions for patients. Stories of patients with Obamacare plans who were turned away or asked to pay higher-than-expected medical fees upfront because of technical or administrative delays within the program would help the case of Republicans and other foes of the law. During the past week, Republicans signaled that they will be closely watching what happens with Obamacare enrollees who seek medical care during the first several days of the new year. "We continue to hold our breath with the next shoe to drop," said Upton, a†Michigan†Republican who is leading a charge in the†House of Representatives†against Obamacare. "When folks visit their doctor or take a child to get necessary treatment (this) week, will the services actually be available? The consequences of the administration's incompetence could not be greater," Upton said. Some Democrats, including House Minority Leader†Nancy Pelosi†of†California, see the start of Obamacare coverage on January 1 as a turning point for the program that will work in Democrats' favor and reverse polling trends against Obama and his party. "By the time we get into the spring, I think the Affordable Care Act will either be a (political) wash or a plus for Democrats," Pelosi told reporters last week. As many as 7 million people had been expected to sign up for Obamacare coverage when the 2014 enrollment period ends on March 31, but that estimate has been thrown into doubt because of the program's error-plagued rollout. The†Obama administration†and several of the state-run exchanges have urged consumers to call up their new insurance plans to make sure they are covered. The administration and several states have offered their call-center personnel to assist in cases in which there are problems with enrollments. Late last week, the†U.S. government†indicated that it was ready to respond to any stories of distressed patients who emerge beginning this week. The administration said it has set up contacts at all of the health plans working in the federal marketplace to "have a mechanism to address the issue (and) ... make sure that it can be resolved as quickly as possible." Doctor groups said they were confident their current systems for handling patients who need help clarifying insurance coverage would make sure people receive needed care. "Whenever a patient changes an insurance company or plan there is a period of adjustment," said Dr†Richard Schilsky, chief medical officer with the†American Society of Clinical Oncology. While there may be a period of limbo for some people between signing up and the insurance taking effect, unless there is a medical emergency, patients probably will be able to wait a week or so to see a doctor, Schilsky said. "If someone needs care, they will get it," he said. Dr†Charles Cutler, chair of the†Board of Regents†of the†American College of Physicians, said many fellow experts in internal medicine who treat people for chronic disease would not be concerned if it took several weeks to get insurance information for a patient. "In my practice we assume people are honest," said Cutler, whose practice is in suburban†Philadelphia. "If they say they have signed up but are not in the system, we will get it straightened out." (Reporting by Toni Clarke in Boston and Michele Gershberg in†New York; Additional reporting by Roberta Rampton in Washington; Editing by David Lindsey, Vicki Allen and Eric Beech)
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The¬†White House¬†is coming under pressure from some of its closest allies on healthcare reform to name a chief executive to run its federal health insurance marketplace and allay the concerns of insurers after the rocky rollout of Obamacare. Advocates have been quietly pushing the idea of a CEO who would set marketplace rules, coordinate with insurers and state regulators on the health plans offered for sale, supervise enrollment campaigns and oversee technology, according to several sources familiar with discussions between advocates and the¬†Obama administration. Supporters of the idea say it could help regain the trust of insurers and others whose confidence in the healthcare overhaul has been shaken by the technological woes that crippled the federal HealthCare.gov insurance shopping website and the flurry of sometimes-confusing administration rule changes that followed. The advocates include former¬†White House¬†adviser¬†Ezekiel Emanuel, the brother of President¬†Barack Obama's former chief of staff¬†Rahm Emanuel, and the¬†Center for American Progress, the Washington think tank founded by John Podesta, the president's newly appointed senior counselor. The¬†White House¬†is not embracing the idea of creating a CEO, administration officials said. "This isn't happening. It's not being considered," a senior administration official told Reuters. Some healthcare reform allies say the complexity of the federal marketplace requires a CEO-type figure with clear authority and knowledge of how insurance markets work. Obama's healthcare overhaul aims to provide health coverage to millions of uninsured or under-insured Americans by offering private insurance at federally subsidized rates through new online health insurance marketplaces in all 50 states and in Washington, D.C. Only 14 states opted to create and operate their own exchanges, leaving the¬†Obama administration¬†to operate a federal marketplace for the remaining 36 states that can be accessed through HealthCare.gov. The marketplace is now officially the responsibility of the U.S. Centers for¬†Medicare¬†and Medicaid Services (CMS) and its administrator,¬†Marilyn Tavenner. Healthcare experts say there is no specific official dedicated to running the operation. A CMS spokesman said exchange functions overlap across different groups within the agency's Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight. The lack of a clear decision-making hierarchy was identified as a liability months before the disastrous October 1 launch of HealthCare.gov by the consulting firm McKinsey &amp; Co. Obama adviser¬†Jeffrey Zients, who rescued the website from crippling technical glitches last month, also identified the lack of effective management as a problem. Former Microsoft executive Kurt DelBene has replaced Zients as website manager, at least through the first half of 2014. "We're fortunate that Kurt DelBene is now part of the administration - there's no one better able to help us keep moving forward to make affordable, quality health insurance available to as many Americans as possible," Obama healthcare adviser¬†Phil Schiliro¬†said in a statement to Reuters. The¬†White House¬†appears, for now, to be concentrating on ironing out the remaining glitches in HealthCare.gov to ensure millions more people are able to sign up for coverage in 2014. Good enrollment numbers are seen by both critics and supporters of Obamacare as a key measure of the program's success. "So my sense is that they're not thinking about appointing a CEO in the short term," said¬†Topher Spiro, a healthcare analyst with the¬†Center for American Progress. The CEO proposal calls for removing day-to-day control of the marketplace from the CMS bureaucracy and placing it under a leadership structure like those used in some of the more successful state-run marketplaces, including¬†California. The new team would be managed by a CEO, or an executive director, who would run the marketplace like a business and answer directly to the¬†White House, sources familiar with the discussions say. They point to insurance industry and healthcare veterans as potential candidates, including former¬†Aetna¬†CEO Ronald Williams, former Kaiser Permanente CEO¬†George Halvorson¬†and¬†Jon Kingsdale, who ran the Massachusetts¬†health exchange established under former Governor¬†Mitt Romney's 2006 healthcare reforms. None of the three was available for comment. Healthcare experts say the idea should have been taken up by the administration years ago. "It's the right thing to do. It's just two years late," said¬†Mike Leavitt, the Republican former¬†Utah¬†governor who oversaw the rollout of the prescription drug program known as¬†Medicare¬†Part D as U.S. health and human services secretary under President¬†George W. Bush. "The administration is confronted by a series of problems they cannot solve on their own. They do not possess internally the competencies or the exposure or the information," he told Reuters. Emanuel, one of the administration's longest-standing allies on healthcare reform, recommended a marketplace CEO in an October 22 Op-Ed article in¬†the New York Times, calling it one of five things the¬†White House¬†could do to fix Obamacare. "The candidate should have management experience, knowledge of how both the government and health insurance industry work, and at least some familiarity with IT (information technology) systems. Obviously this is a tall order, but there are such people. And the administration needs to hire one immediately," he wrote. The administration has adopted Emanuel's four other recommendations: better window-shopping features for HealthCare.gov; a concerted effort to win back public trust; a focus on the customer shopping experience; and a public outreach campaign to engage young adults. (Reporting by David Morgan in Washington; Editing by¬†Karey Van Hall, Michele Gershberg, Ross Colvin and Will Dunham)
Wikimedia CommonsEconomist Brad DeLong poses a great question about Bitcoin: Underpinning the value of gold is that if all else fails you can use it to make pretty things. Underpinning the value of the dollar is a combination of (a) the fact that you can use them to pay your taxes to the U.S. government, and (b) that the Federal Reserve is a potential dollar sink and has promised to buy them back and extinguish them if their real value starts to sink at (much) more than 2%/year (yes, I know). Placing a ceiling on the value of gold is mining technology, and the prospect that if its price gets out of whack for long on the upside a great deal more of it will be created. Placing a ceiling on the value of the dollar is the Federal Reserve‚Äôs role as actual dollar source, and its commitment not to allow deflation to happen. Placing a ceiling on the value of bitcoins is computer technology and the form of the hash function‚Ä¶ until the limit of 21 million bitcoins is reached. Placing a floor on the value of bitcoins is‚Ä¶ what, exactly? Bitcoin bulls will usually respond with something like "cryptography" or "technology" or something like that, but these aren't really satisfying answers. Paul Krugman explains why: I have had and am continuing to have a dialogue with smart technologists who are very high on BitCoin ‚Äî but when I try to get them to explain to me why BitCoin is a reliable store of value, they always seem to come back with explanations about how it‚Äôs a terrific medium of exchange. Even if I buy this (which I don‚Äôt, entirely), it doesn‚Äôt solve my problem. And I haven‚Äôt been able to get my correspondents to recognize that these are different questions. There's a good case to be made that Bitcoin is impressive technology for payments, but why a Bitcoin itself should be something of value is not easily answered. This isn't damning to Bitcoin but it is problematic, and those with a big belief in the durability of the digital currency (or other digital currencies) should try to think it through. One way to think about it is not that the value of a Bitcoin has value per se, but that the network of Bitcoin speculators (people willing to trade them) provide a service of value to people who want to use Bitcoins as a product.¬† In other words, there's a set of people who want to use Bitcoins for transactions (like people who want to get money out of China) and they rely on the set of people that is willing to take risk and swap Bitcoins for real currency and those two groups are distinct and symbiotic. That's kind of the conclusion I worked towards in a post earlier this month. That's still not 100% satisfying though, in part because there's nothing guaranteeing that people will stay interested in trading Bitcoins (that's not the case with real currency... by law there are people that have to hold US dollars).
Schools replaced by care homes and a once-vibrant economy dulled by one of Asia's oldest populations: experts fear this is the Hong Kong of the not-too-distant future. One in three people in the city is expected to be 65 years old or above by 2041, threatening to curb economic growth in the major financial hub, the Hong Kong government has warned. "It is a huge concern for our population development," Hong Kong University social sciences professor Paul Yip told AFP, explaining that the economy will take a hit if the ageing trend continues. "There will be more people but less that are working, so fewer people will be contributing to the economy of Hong Kong," Yip said. While some critics argue that government forecasts for 2041 fail to make allowances for migration or those who will continue to work beyond the retirement age of 65, the territory faces clear challenges on an economic and social front. The impending demographic problem is reflected in programmes such as Eldpathy, set up by Hong Kong University of Science and Technology students, which aims to foster more empathy towards the elderly by encouraging teenagers to try on special movement-restricting suits designed to simulate the sensation of age on the body. "The plight of the ageing population in Hong Kong is getting more and more serious," Eldpathy co-founder Samantha Kong told AFP. Choosing pets over kids For others, the problem is not so much a high population of elderly but Hong Kong's lack of children. Financial pressure, career-driven mentalities, limited space and exorbitant property costs are seen as key drivers of a fertility rate that is one of the lowest in the world by some measure, with an average 1.20 births per woman according to the World Bank. "Young people do want to get married, but they just cannot afford to rent a place to live," Yip said. They tend to stay with parents longer in the hope of saving enough money to buy a flat, meaning that they end up waiting longer before getting married and having children, he said. Social trends in Hong Kong also indicate that an increasing number of women are choosing not to get married. Those who do tie the knot do so much later and have a very small time window to start families, he said. Many married couples "would rather have a pet than a child", added Yip. Based on current fertility and mortality rates, if Hong Kong does not do anything about its ageing problem it will have a median age of 56.3 years by 2040, according to the United Nations. Based on the same factors, Singapore will hit 50.3 years, China 45.9 years and Thailand 45.7 years, according to UN data. A higher life expectancy and low birthrate will also raise Hong Kong's dependency ratio from 355 dependent persons per 1,000 people now to 712 per 1,000 in 2041. Hong Kong's semi-autonomy from China expires in 2047, and experts say it is not clear how this will affect its demographic make up. The former British colony was returned to China in 1997 with its own political and legal system, that guarantees civil liberties not seen on the mainland, until 2047. Hong Kong chief secretary Carrie Lam, who heads a committee which in October started a four-month public consultation on the issue, said the city must broaden and diversify its workforce to tackle the challenge of ageing. The committee has also considered attracting talent from overseas and mainland China, which has brought opposition from the city's unions. Allowing well-educated mainland Chinese parents to have children in Hong Kong has also been a suggestion to help reverse the demographic trend. Up until the end of 2012, thousands of mainland women came to give birth in the territory and gained residency rights for their children, but local families complained they were taking up limited hospital beds. The city has since banned pregnant mainlanders whose husbands were not from Hong Kong from giving birth at local hospitals. For some, the spectre of a city with a diminishing work force and lack of youthful dynamism is a very real worry. "It wouldn't really be a city I would like to live in," says professor Yip.
Turkey's government is in disarray. It is quite common for governments, particularly in countries with an authoritarian leadership (and Turkey's leadership has been acting in that fashion), to blame whatever the mess the country is facing on corruption (see example). And the more the¬†Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan loses grip on power, the more he will blame "corruption" for his predicament. With Erdogan's cabinet reshuffled (see story from NBC), as ministers resign (some of whom are calling for his resignation),¬†Turkey's near-term political stability has been called into question.The central bank has been desperately trying¬†to defend the lira as the current account deficit can no longer be financed with foreign capital inflows. But selling foreign reserves has been ineffective and a hike in short-term rates may be the next step. However, rising rates may further damage the nation's economy that has been weakened by capital outflows in recent months (see post).Investors are not taking any chances, with the lira, the stock market, and the country's government bonds all taking a severe beating. The chart below shows the dollar appreciation against the lira as the currency hits record lows. What worries many investors is that renewed weakness in the nation's currency could accelerate inflation, causing further social unrest. Investing.com Turkish 10-year bond yield has breached 10%, as the selloff that started a couple of months ago accelerated. Investing.com With investors already jittery about emerging markets in the face of tighter monetary conditions and higher rates in the US, the situation in Turkey has become¬†precarious. While the media has not focused on this angle, the situation also presents a significant geopolitical risk, given the regional importance of Turkey, a member of NATO, for the US and the EU.
Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius writes: 10 Questions for 2014 (Here are the 10 questions at Business Insider:†Goldman's Top Economists Just Answered The Most Important Questions For 2014 ó And Boy Are His Answers Bullish)A few excerpts from the research note:† We expect the US economy to accelerate to an above-trend growth pace in 2014, as the fiscal drag diminishes sharply but the private sector impulse remains positive. The acceleration is likely to be led by faster growth in personal consumption and business capital spending, with continued support from housing. The unemployment rate is likely to fall about as fast as in 2013, with faster job growth offset by a flattening in labor force participation. But we expect the slack in the labor market to remain large enough in 2014 to keep wage growth subdued, profit margins high, and inflation well below the Fedís 2% target. The Federal Reserve is likely to conclude its QE3 program in late 2014. But we still see no hikes in short-term interest rates until early 2016 ... Goldman is projecting around 3% GDP growth in 2014. A similar drop in the unemployment rate next year as in 2013†would put the rate in the low 6% range.And on housing:† Barring another sharp increase in mortgage rates, we think that the upward trend should continue in 2014 because the longer-term fundamentals for housing activity remain very favorable. ... We are a bit less optimistic about house prices. ... we would expect somewhat slower growth of 5%-6% in 2014óstill decent but no longer nearly as rapid as the double-digit rates seen over the past 12-18 months. Read more at†http://www.calculatedriskblog.com/2013/12/goldman-sachs-10-questions-for-2014.html#ZYvlHwgWEkerMlK5.99
