REUTERS/Eric Thayer AS MIDNIGHT Sept. 30th approached, everybody on Capitol Hill blamed everybody else for the imminent shutdown of America‚Äôs government. To a wondering world, the recriminations missed the point. When you are brawling on the edge of a cliff, the big question is not "Who is right?", but "What the hell are you doing on the edge of a cliff?" The shutdown itself is tiresome but bearable. The security services will remain on duty, pensioners will still receive their cheques and the astronauts on the International Space Station will still be able to breathe. Some 800,000 non-essential staff at federal agencies (out of 2.8m) are being sent home, while another 1.3m are being asked to toil on without pay (see "The federal government: Closed until further notice"). Non-urgent tasks will be shelved until a deal is reached and the money starts to flow again. If that happens quickly, the economic damage will be modest: perhaps 0.1-0.2% off the fourth-quarter growth rate for every week the government is closed. The trouble is, the shutdown is a symptom of a deeper problem: the federal lawmaking process is so polarised that it has become paralysed. And if the two parties cannot bridge their differences by around Oct. 17th, disaster looms. Battles over spending are nothing unusual--indeed, Congress has not passed a proper budget on time since 1997. But this battle represents something new. House Republicans are blocking the budget not because they object to its contents, but because they object to something else entirely: Barack Obama‚Äôs health-care reform, a big part of which started to operate this week (see "America‚Äôs health-care upheaval: Will it get better?"). Their original demand was to strip all funding from Obamacare. In other words, they wanted Democrats to agree to kill their own president‚Äôs biggest achievement. That was never going to happen. As the deadline for a budget deal approached, Republicans scaled back their demands. Instead of defunding Obamacare, they said that its mandate for individuals to buy health insurance (or pay a fine) should be delayed for a year. That may sound more reasonable, but it is not so, for two reasons. First, delaying the mandate could wreck the whole reform. Obamacare sits on two pillars. Everyone is obliged to have insurance, and insurance firms are barred from charging people more because they are already ill. If only the second rule applies, the sick will rush to buy insurance but the healthy will wait until they fall ill before doing so. Insurers will have to raise premiums or go bust, making coverage unaffordable without vast subsidies. Obamacare will enter a death spiral and possibly collapse. For some Republicans, that is the goal. The second reason is that Republicans are setting a precedent which, if followed, would make America ungovernable. Voters have seen fit to give their party control of one arm of government--the House of Representatives--while handing the Democrats the White House and the Senate. If a party with such a modest electoral mandate threatens to shut down government unless the other side repeals a law it does not like, apparently settled legislation will always be vulnerable to repeal by the minority. Washington will be permanently paralysed and America condemned to chronic uncertainty. It gets worse. Later this month the federal government will reach its legal borrowing limit, known as the "debt ceiling". Unless Congress raises that ceiling, Uncle Sam will soon be unable to pay all his bills. In other words, unless the two parties can work together, America will have to choose which of its obligations not to honour. It could slash spending so deeply that it causes a recession. Or it could default on its debts, which would be even worse, and unimaginably more harmful than a mere government shutdown. No one in Washington is that crazy, surely? America enjoys the "exorbitant privilege" of printing the world‚Äôs reserve currency. Its government debt is considered a safe haven, which is why Uncle Sam can borrow so much, so cheaply. America will not lose these advantages overnight. But anything that undermines its creditworthiness--as the farce in Washington surely does--risks causing untold damage in the future. It is not just that America would have to pay more to borrow. The repercussions of an American default would be both global and unpredictable. It would threaten financial markets. Since American Treasuries are very liquid and safe, they are widely used as collateral. They are more than 30% of the collateral that financial institutions such as investment banks use to borrow in the $2 trillion "tri-party repo" market, a source of overnight funding. A default could trigger demands by lenders for more or different collateral; that might cause a financial heart attack like the one prompted by the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008. In short, even if Obamacare were as bad as tea-party types say it is (see "Lexington: Cruz missile"), it would still be reckless to use the debt ceiling as a bargaining chip to repeal it, as some Republicans suggest. What can be done? In the short term, House Republicans need to get their priorities straight. They should pass a clean budget resolution without trying to refight old battles over Obamacare. They should also vote to raise the debt ceiling (or better yet, abolish it). If Obamacare really does turn out to be a flop and Republicans win the presidency and the Senate in 2016, they can repeal it through the normal legislative process. In the longer term, America needs to tackle polarisation. The problem is especially acute in the House, because many states let politicians draw their own electoral maps. Unsurprisingly, they tend to draw ultra-safe districts for themselves. This means that a typical congressman has no fear of losing a general election but is terrified of a primary challenge. Many therefore pander to extremists on their own side rather than forging sensible centrist deals with the other. This is no way to run a country. Electoral reforms, such as letting independent commissions draw district boundaries, would not suddenly make America governable, but they would help. It is time for less cliff-hanging, and more common sense. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
The government's partial shutdown has now gone on for four days. And while it's a shame that Congress refuses to make a deal to get the government back online, the economic damage may be putting enough pressure on the economy that the Federal Reserve will have no choice but to keep stimulating via easy monetary policy. This could be a positive for risk assets. Morgan Stanley's Hans Redekar wrote about it today: ëBeautifulí shutdown scenario. The VIX index has shot up to 17, showing its highest reading since June as investors use the options market to hedge bullish exposure. However, unless the US defaults, the combination of the government staying closed and the related economic slowdown prolonging monetary accommodation is probably the most bullish long-term outcome for risky assets, explaining why investors prefer hedging the short-term downside risk instead of reducing physical portfolio exposure into risky assets. Currency markets will see USD weakening as long as this scenario plays out, in our view. But as Redekar notes, a debt default would change everything. Default scenario. However, should the US default, then there will be a radical change in FX markets. A US default will increase USD demand inside and outside the US, pushing USD sharply higher. However, between now and November 1, the market will play the ëbeautifulí shutdown scenario, slowing the US economy sufficiently to keep the Fed in the QE game for longer. Interestingly, Asian equity markets have started to outperform US markets, suggesting that funds are leaving the US looking for better risk/reward elsewhere. Morgan Stanley's house view continues to be that the U.S. government will not default. It'll be interesting to see how events unfold as we approach the Oct. 17 deadline for the debt ceiling.
This reminds me that the mood about such things can quite easily change. In the 1990s, the phrase ìeurosclerosisî was widely used to describe the lack of competitiveness and unattractiveness of Germany, its apparent hollowing out and the tendency of German companies to invest anywhere but in their own economy. As with the economy, its football teams were not seen as Europeís elite, a status they do enjoy today. Bayern Munich is heralded as the star football team of Europe, earning as much praise as the companies from the same city. Meanwhile, the nationís ability to have weathered the euro crisis with strong job creation and its admired export model are apparently the envy of the developed world. Watching Manchester United dismantle Bayer Leverkusen in the Champions League last month got me thinking whether all of this is a bit over the top. United are struggling in the Premier League this season, yet they could easily have put more than the four goals they scored past the German team. Even in their pomp, United rarely beat German opposition and yet Leverkusen came third in last yearís Bundesliga. Germany clearly has a few outstanding football teams and some fabulous international companies, but is the depth of the countryís success that deep? In any economy, economic growth is sustained by good demographics and rising productivity. With these, it should be able to sustain growth over the medium to long term and see its share of the world economy rise. Germany does not have good demographics. By 2050, it is quite possible that its population will be smaller than that of either France or the UK ñ which, if the European Monetary Union still exists then, means it probably wonít be such a dominant voice on Europe. Without strong productivity, Germany may grow less than the other two, a possibility today most would think highly unlikely. German productivity does not look especially strong to me, although neither does it elsewhere in the developed world. Germanyís strong labour market since 2008 has been associated with decent, but not especially strong, GDP growth. The driver of that cyclical growth has largely been exports. Despite Germanyís crisis-hit European neighbours shifting from current account deficit to surplus, there has not been a corresponding drop in Germanyís surplus. It is almost as though the eurozone has seen its competitiveness rise against the rest of the world. However, in the future Germany might not do so well relative to many of them in their home markets, nor in competing third markets. With China, Russia and some other large emerging areas slowing, Germanyís exports may find it tough to keep up the same momentum, especially with the euro now some way above $1.30. There has been some strength in areas of domestic demand, notably some of the regional housing markets, but this does not seem to be driving accelerating domestic demand more broadly, so how Germany is expected to remain so ìrobustî is unclear to me. A hint of this was shown in the latest German IFO, along with the regular monthly PMI surveys, a pretty useful leading indicator of the economyís near-term potential. While there were increased expectations, the current conditions were essentially flat. Optimistic forward-looking expectations are not supported by actual investment spending, which remains quite disappointing and not reflective of a strong Germany. Chancellor Merkel will probably have to preside over a complex coalition with the SPD, which wonít be as easy for her as her relationship with the outgoing FDP. Some might hope Germanyís stance towards its European neighbours will be less demanding because the SPD is likely to be more aligned to the current governments in Paris and Rome. But this is far from evident in Chancellor Merkelís comments in the immediate aftermath of the election, nor was it from the finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, just before the election. ìSteady as she goes,î appears their mantra ñ which does not strike me as the basis for a lasting solution to the euroís woes, nor a great reason to think Germanyís traditional export markets will be buoyant. As always, the realities are quite complex, and with the new anti-euro party waiting in the wings, along with the Bundesbank and the Constitutional Court, to pounce on anything seen as too lax or unjust to the German taxpayer, the Chancellor remains alert to that pressure. So donít hold your breath for a major shift in Germanyís strategy on Europe to one in which the big, structural and organisational issues are dealt with, let alone solved. Banking union for common fiscal agreements and a genuine common eurobond ñ the ultimate hope of the pro-Europeans ñ donít seem as though they are around the corner, although I still believe for the euro to survive, they are inevitable. It has become fashionable to regard this as an impressive sign of German resilience too, but I find it hard to see how this can be a lasting position. I spent some time last weekend with the board of a major German international company and they didnít seem so excited about their domestic economic outlook or the alternatives facing policymakers dealing with the future of the euro area. Given Manchester Unitedís current performance, perhaps I should have waited until they play the return game in Leverkusen next month before writing this piece, but a repeat of the first game ñ which United won 4-2 - will really get me thinking that not all is quite as fabulous with Germany Inc as is currently perceived. Jim OíNeill is former head of Goldman Sachs Asset Management and chairman of education charity Shine 
APHear me out on this for a second. Yesterday, I wrote that House Speaker John Boehner's new search for a "Grand Bargain"on fiscal issues†makes little sense†as a way to resolve the government shutdown. Republicans don't want to pass a continuing resolution that reopens the government without disrupting Obamacare. They don't want to raise the debt ceiling without concessions. They don't want a fiscal reform deal that raises revenue. How does combining those three efforts together make things any easier? But I had a thought last night. What if the Grand Bargain is a net tax cut? What if it repeals nearly all the taxes in Obamacare? Then, Republicans might actually be persuaded to think of it not just as a victory, but a victory big enough to justify reopening the government and raising the debt ceiling. The obvious problem with that is that President Obama has repeatedly said that he wants new revenue as part of any fiscal reform package, and he needs revenue from the Obamacare taxes to pay for Obamacare. But I think there is a way around that. Here's what Democrats would get in my version of the grand bargain, with 10-year deficit effects in parentheses: And here's what Republicans would get: All that adds up to $200 billion in deficit reduction, and $170 billion in net tax cuts. Usually, Grand Bargains are framed as a spinach-eating exercise. The sales pitch is that you'll have to eat spinach, but your opponents will have to eat spinach too, so it's all fair. And then the plans fail because everybody hates spinach. And Republicans especially hate the tax-increase type of spinach. This plan is different because everybody gets something to brag about as their big policy victory. Republicans, after losing the 2012 election, get to implement two policies they ran on: Converting Medicare to a premium-support program and repealing the "job-killing" taxes in Obamacare. They also get a big increase in the child tax credit, which gives them something they can point to as a way they helped middle-class families struggling in the weak recovery. Democrats get four big things: Immigration reform, a public option, partial relief from sequestration, and Republican acquiescence to the idea that the benefit side of Obamacare will continue.† It's easy for me, at least, to imagine a lot of different kinds of people getting behind this deal. For Grover Norquist, it cuts the top tax rates on both ordinary and capital gain income and cuts taxes overall. For liberal Democrats like Rep. Raul Grijalva (Ariz.), it's immigration reform and a public option. For John Boehner, it repeals some of Republicans' most-hated parts of Obamacare. For Paul Ryan, it provides a signature legacy item in Medicare reform. For the president, it makes the tax code more progressive and solidifies Obamacare benefits as something that will stick around. Obviously, some groups lose in this deal. The limitation on deductions would mean a net tax increase for high wage earners, especially in blue states. The plan would put downward pressure on medical costs, hurting doctors and hospitals. Democrats also have deep-in-the-bones opposition to Medicare privatization, partly because the original versions of the Ryan Medicare plan really would have caused the program to wither on the vine by providing "premium support" that wouldn't have been sufficient to buy a real health plan. But the latest version of the plan, which I use as the basis for this proposal, is essentially similar to the Obamacare exchange plus a public option. Traditional Medicare would be retained. Seniors would remain entitled to traditional Medicare on the same terms as today unless private insurers offer comparable benefits more cheaply. There's no reason to think of this as "gutting Medicare." Of course, seniors probably wouldn't like the Medicare changes, and they especially wouldn't like the fact that chained CPI would cut Social Security benefits. But there's a political offset to likely opposition from seniors: The Child Credit increase, which makes winners out of tens of millions of middle-aged Americans with dependent children. Too often, fiscal reform plans take exactly the wrong approach on Medicare: Proposing cuts far in the future which scare and annoy seniors without producing savings within the budget window that can be used to buy off another constituency. Better to cut Medicare now and give the savings to parents to get them on board with the bargain. I realize this plan still probably won't work. It has a lot of pieces and Congress is not very good at doing complicated things right now. But if John Boehner is really looking for a "grand bargain" to sell his caucus on, this offers him one that he can sell as a tax cut and a partial rollback of Obamacare, which makes it better than the other ideas on offer.
AP House Democrats on Friday unveiled a longshot plan aimed at forcing an end to the government shutdown by passing a "clean" continuing resolution that would keep the government funded through Nov. 15 at sequestration levels. The plan is complicated, but House Democrats said Friday that they will file a "discharge petition" on a bill sponsored by¬†Rep. James Lankford (R-Okla.). That bill has sat languishing since March without any action by the House Appropriations Committee. Democrats would need to get a majority of representatives (218) to sign the discharge petition and force a vote on the bill ‚Äî the "Government Shutdown Protection Act." That means that in addition to all 200 Democratic signatures, 18 Republicans would need to sign the petition.¬† Here's where things get interesting. Over the past few days, 21 Republican representatives have come out¬†and said they would support a "clean" continuing resolution. House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) has no plans on his own to bring a clean CR to the floor. ‚ÄúThere is a growing number of Republicans who want the opportunity to work with us to end this crisis. We have seen it in press reports.¬†And I have heard it in my own private conversations with my Republican colleagues,‚Äù Rep. George Miller (D-Calif.) said at a press conference Friday.¬†‚ÄúToday, we are offering my Republican friends, and the American people, a way forward.‚Äù Of course, those 21 Republicans¬†saying they support a so-called "clean" CR and actually¬†doing it are two different things. And Republican leaders think it's extremely unlikely that moderate Republicans would buck leadership.¬† The disparity was most recently seen Monday ‚Äî just hours before the government was set to shut down ‚Äî when moderate Republicans were plotting a "revolt" behind the scenes¬†led by Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.) to force a vote on a clean CR. But only King and Rep. Charlie Dent (R-Pa.) ended up voting for the measure. "Ah, the old discharge petition move. Zero percent of the time it works every time," quipped Brendan Buck, a Boehner spokesman. Miller and Reps. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) and Nita Lowey (R-N.Y.) ‚Äî the three Democrats who announced the plan Friday ‚Äî referred the petition to the House Rules Committee. After a week of inaction, they can file the petition and gather signatures. If they get enough signatures, a vote on a "clean" bill to reopen the government could come as early as Oct. 14. Here's the gist of the bill: If Congress fails to approve a budget by the end of each fiscal year, the Government Shutdown Prevention Act would ensure that all operations remain running normally without any interruption of services by automatically triggering a continuing resolution (CR) or short-term, stop-gap spending device. The bill creates an automatic CR for any regular appropriations bill not completed before the end of the fiscal year. After the first 120 days, auto-CR funding would be reduced by one percentage point and would continue to be reduced by that margin every 90 days.¬† Democrats don't intend to make Lankford's bill law. They plan to add language into the CR that will be a "complete substitute for that language which will be a clean continuing resolution to open up the government," Miller said.
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozEarlier this year, a group of researchers led by UMass-Amherst's Thomas Herndon found an error in a seminal paper by Harvard economists Carmen Reinhart and Ken Rogoff regarding debt and GDP. Reinhart and Rogoff had asserted that at the 90% debt-to-GDP ratio, the¬†median growth rate among the countries they surveyed dropped by 1%, and that the mean growth rate dropped even further. But Team Herndon discovered the pair had left out several countries whose history of debt versus GDP, they claim, would have shown nothing special happens at the 90% level.¬† The reason why all this matters is because, in the wake of the financial crisis, lots of people cited Reinhart and Rogoff's findings¬†to argue¬†in favor austerity, including in the U.S. And as we now know, austerity has seen extremely mixed results. Now, in a new post on his website, Rogoff has produced another response in the form of a Frequently Asked Questions article. It's mostly a summary of past arguments that he and Reinhart have made: that everyone was drawing incorrect conclusions from their initial findings. "We very explicitly state that our results should not be interpreted as saying that a country would suddenly experience a significant change in expected growth as it crossed the 90% threshold," he writes. Rogoff also confirms Team Herndon's findings that there were omissions, but argues they are "of minor quantitative significance and hardly central to the debate." But Rogoff unexpectedly sideswipes the econo-blogo-sphere for having perpetuated misleading interpretations of their findings. "The terms ‚Äúthreshold‚Äù and ‚Äúnonlinearity‚Äù in economic research by no means imply there has to be a sharp break (no matter how much some bloggers incorrectly make that claim). Our more nuanced and¬†perfectly conventional meaning is also clear in the context of the large literature in international finance that our paper builds on."¬† The bloggers in question remain unnamed. But it does provide some insight into the tiff-riddled world of economics blogging, where the bloggers also frequently happen to be economists, and even Harvard colleagues.
Mirisch CorporationJack Lemmon as an insurance salesmen in The Apartment.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. FINRA Is Considering A Rule That Would Require Brokerages To Carry Arbitration Insurance (The Wall Street Journal) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is mulling requiring brokerage firms to have insurance to cover payments awarded to clients in the event of an arbitration. 11% or $51 million of arbitration awards that were granted in 2011 still haven't been paid. This is up from 4% in 2010. Susan Axelrod, Finra's executive vice president of regulatory operations told the WSJ that the self-regulator is aware of "frustration" over awards that aren't paid out.  Advisor Confidence Stays Flat In September (WealthManagement.com) The WealthManagement.com Advisor Confidence Index (ACI), a gauge of advisors' views on the economy and the prospects for the markets over the next six and twelve months, was pretty much flat in September coming in at 111.96. This is despite the budget impasse over Obamacare that has led to a partial government shutdown. Some advisors also thought the Fed's decision to delay tapering its bond buying program will also "give a false lift to markets" especially now that that Larry Summers has dropped out of the race for Fed chair. Merrill Team With Over $900 Million In Client Assets Joins Janney (Investment News) A team of Bank of America Merrill Lynch advisers who manage over $900 million in client assets have joined Janney Montgomery Scott LLC at their West Harford, Connecticut office. The team has an annual production of $3.7 million, reports Investment News. The team consists of four advisors Robert Black, Ned Manuel, Ed Blumenthal, and Bob Borkowski. Account executive Malcolm Berman and three assistants have joined them too. A US Debt Default Would Be Really Bad News For The Stock Market (JP Morgan)  JP Morgan's Tom Lee has a year-end S&amp;P 500 target of 1,775. While Lee thinks the economic backdrop is better now than it was in 2011, when Congress was last debating the debt ceiling, he does think a debt ceiling accident poses a risk to his positive view. We believe the risk of a U.S. debt default is not high enough at the moment to justify selling ‚Äî but to be clear, a debt default would have serious negative consequences to our positive thesis on equities were it to occur," says Lee. "As we noted earlier in the week, equity markets have shown decent performance once a shutdown begins. The greater risk, obviously, is of a potential debt default. As we noted above, this does not yet appear to be a material concern of the debt markets (as evidenced by CDS spreads) and we believe both political parties have enormous interest in avoiding this outcome as well."
Flickr/rainchurchIt's no great secret that the stock market has had a record-breaking 2013. And Goldman Sachs strategist David Kostin doesn't see it stopping any time soon. In his new monthly chartbook, Kostin tells clients Goldman "expects the S&amp;P 500 will reach 1750 in the next three months (+4.1%), and 1900 at year-end 2014 (+13.0%)." The continued market rally will be bolstered by financial and industrial stocks, Kostin notes. He also lays out the 40 cheapest stocks on the market right now, ranging up to 69.5% upside to Goldman's price target. We pulled the top 20.
via Stribling & AssociatesRussian billionaire Roman Abramovich is reportedly buying a big chunk of a¬†gorgeous Fifth Avenue mansion, and is on his way to owning the entire building. Abramovich is in contract to buy three of the five apartments in the building at 828 Fifth Avenue from the family of late¬†British real estate developer Howard Ronson¬†for $75 million, reports Jennifer Gould Keil at¬†The New York Post.¬† If the deal closes at that price, it would soar past the current $54 million¬†record for a co-op in the city, according to The Real Deal. He's also reportedly in talks with other owners in the building to buy out their co-ops as well, and wants to restore the mansion to its former glory, reports Julie Strickland at the New York Observer. The late owner Ronson dreamed of buying up all of the building's apartments to recreate the single-family mansion that once stood there. He passed away in 2007, and his family put his holdings in the building on the market for $72 million, which included the penthouse, a triplex, and a duplex apartment. The eight-bedroom co-op is an interesting mix of classic and modern with tall ceilings and eight bedrooms. There's even a rooftop terrace that looks out over Central Park.
In a boardroom high above New York the firm‚Äôs senior executives meet representatives of Goldman Sachs and ask for reassurance it will keep its credit lines open. Should the bankers stand by a client, even if it means putting Goldman Sachs at risk, or should they protect themselves, possibly precipitating a financial meltdown? The film on the screen pauses. Lights in the room brighten and about 100 vice-presidents of Goldman Sachs‚Äôs London business blink into it, reaching for answers that will neither make them look stupid in front of their peers nor venal in the eyes of their superiors. A tentative hand rises: ‚ÄúOur first responsibility is to the firm,‚Äù says one. ‚ÄúSo the firm comes first despite our business principles [a promise always to put its clients‚Äô interest first]?‚Äù asks the moderator, a Goldman Sachs veteran who heads one of its European businesses. Pressing the point he asks the group whether Goldman‚Äôs status as a systemically important financial institution ought to have any bearing on the decision. Do its obligations to help ensure financial stability trump all others? The case study runs for several hours. It is preceded by an emotive documentary on the history of Goldman Sachs, filled with interviews of luminaries and former executives, each hammering home the virtues that supposedly make the firm distinctive‚Äîteamwork, personal accountability and the legendary exhortation by Gus Levy, a former leader of the firm, to be ‚Äúlong-term greedy‚Äù, by which he meant it should forgo short-term profits if they came at the expense of client relationships. Critics of the firm, of which there are many, would doubtless guffaw at this theatre. Yet internal training sessions such as the one that¬†The Economist¬†recently attended (with the knowledge of the session‚Äôs moderator but without the knowledge of participants) do shed light on the efforts being made by the firm to burnish a badly tarnished reputation. A firm that for years had shunned the limelight, and that prided itself on the sobriety and understatement of its senior executives, has become the object of ridicule and caricature since the crisis. When described by¬†Rolling Stone¬†magazine in 2009 as ‚Äúa great vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money‚Äù, bosses shrugged off the insults as the product of jealousy and misunderstanding. Even now few executives say that Goldman should have done anything differently, other than giving customers more information. When asked about a $550m settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2010 over claims that it misled investors in a subprime-mortgage product known as Abacus, Goldmanites still privately argue they did nothing wrong. Wronged as it felt, the firm was nonetheless forced to re-examine itself when it became clear that the trust of its clients was being eroded. A survey of 200 of its most important clients that was released in early 2011 showed some of them thought Goldman Sachs placed its short-term interests above those of its clients, and that its involvement in proprietary trading, among other businesses, put it in conflict with its clients. That cut to the heart of its franchise. Without the confidence of clients ‚Äúit won‚Äôt matter that we know how to make money,‚Äù says one executive. ‚ÄúPeople won‚Äôt want to deal with us.‚Äù Goldman‚Äôs attempts to rehabilitate its reputation have consisted in part of changing its internal rules for dealing with clients. The new rules are best summed up as Goldman playing Nanny to its clients, instead of acting as an equal to its counterparties. Almost all clients bar the biggest and smartest have had limits placed on the sorts of transactions they can undertake. Municipalities, for instance, may not be allowed to buy or sell derivatives unless these are clearly matched by an underlying interest (a loan that needs hedging, say). Goldman is also being more open with clients, telling them exactly how much it will earn from transactions and what different roles it may be playing. As important are its efforts to reprogram the firm‚Äôs culture. As well as the hours of training‚Äîthe programme is being run across the firm, and the first sessions were led by Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman‚Äôs chief executive‚Äîinternal incentives have been revamped. Pay and promotion are now tied more to whether employees work well in teams, for instance. There is less focus on rewarding staff for the revenue they generate. These reforms may not be enough, however, without deeper structural changes aimed at reducing the number of conflicts, real or perceived, with which it constantly has to grapple. Steven Mandis, a Goldman veteran turned academic, argues in a remarkable new book, ‚ÄúWhat Happened to Goldman Sachs?‚Äù, that the firm‚Äôs culture has been drifting for years. Among the many examples he cites, the firm historically refused to advise bidders launching hostile takeovers because it felt that clients would trust it more as a result. In the late 1990s it reversed this policy, hoping to expand its share of the M&amp;A market. Another example was the expansion of its proprietary-trading business, in which the bank traded for its own profit. ‚ÄúUntil the financial crisis these guys were our biggest competitors,‚Äù says the head of trading at a large hedge fund. ‚ÄúIt wouldn‚Äôt be a stretch to say that Goldman Sachs was the biggest hedge fund in the world.‚Äù It has since pulled back on pure prop trading, but Goldman‚Äôs investing heft remains formidable. Its principal-investments arm pulled in more revenues than its investment-banking unit in the first half of 2013. Instead of eliminating conflicts of interest, Goldman hopes to rely on greater disclosure and the wits of its people to defuse them. The firm‚Äôs introspection is real; and whatever clients‚Äô misgivings, the bank heads the M&amp;A league tables. But it remains committed to a business model that is designed to put it in difficult situations. 
Getty So far, the battle of the budget in Washington is playing out roughly as expected. While a government shutdown has theoretically been ordered, nothing much has really happened, all the functions of government deemed essential have continued and financial markets have simply yawned. The only real difference between the tragicomedy now unfolding on Capitol Hill and¬†the scenario outlined here last week¬†has been in timing. I had suggested that the House Republicans would give way almost immediately on the budget, if only to keep some of their powder dry for a second, though equally hopeless, battle over the Treasury debt limit. ¬†Instead, it now looks like President Obama may succeed in rolling the two issues into one and forcing the Republicans to capitulate on both simultaneously. The ultimate outcome of these battles is now clearer than ever. As explained here last week, the Tea Party‚Äôs campaign either to defund Obamacare or to sabotage the U.S. economy was doomed by the transformation in political dynamics that resulted from November‚Äôs election ‚Äî above all by the fact that the president never again has to face the voters, while nearly every member of Congress must. This shift in the balance of power made the Republicans‚Äô decision to mount a last stand on Obamacare, instead of attacking the White House on genuine budgetary issues, politically suicidal as well as quixotic. But while the outcome now looks inevitable, the timing of the decisive battle is important. Financial markets and businesses have responded with a tolerance bordering on complacency to the shenanigans in Washington, but this attitude could change abruptly if the House Republicans‚Äô capitulation is delayed too long. As they say in the theater, the only difference between comedy and tragedy is timing. The risk, as everyone now realizes, is that the battle of the budget ‚Äî which turns out really to be just a minor tussle over the funding of a limited range of worthy but nonessential government services ‚Äî remains in a stalemate right up to October 17, when U.S. Treasury is expected to hit its debt limit. At that point, an immediate settlement will be needed or all hell could break loose. The key question for businesses and investors around the world, therefore, is whether the Republicans‚Äô impossible demands to defund Obamacare are removed from the budgetary bills comfortably before the October 17 deadline, or whether this capitulation is triggered by a financial crisis once the deadline draws too close. Until recently, the Republicans believed October 17 would be their moment of maximum leverage, since President Obama would have no choice but to make concessions or face an economic meltdown. But now it is becoming clear that Republicans will be the ones facing maximum pressure as the debt limit draws near. Game theory teaches that in such confrontations we must assess the costs to the players of fighting and also of backing down. Republican Congressmen, if they continue fighting right up to the debt limit, will have to answer to voters for the economic mayhem that a Treasury default could cause. Obama, on the other hand, has nothing to fear from elections since he will never run again. The¬†costs of retreat also favor the White House. For the president to back down and gut Obamacare would destroy what he sees as his greatest achievement and would confirm his lame duck status. For the Republicans, by contrast, allowing the budget and debt ceiling to pass would leave them exactly where they were a few weeks ago. In logic, such calculations should force the Republicans to back down quickly, extracting whatever small face-saving concessions the White House might offer them to avert any further political embarrassment and economic harm. Such concessions might include agreement to go ahead with the Keystone oil pipeline, or to reduce the unpopular excise tax on medical equipment, or to launch a formal process of discussions on revenue-neutral tax reforms. Many Republicans seem to be making such calculations. Within 48 hours of the government shutdown, the¬†Washington Post¬†had identified 18 Republican Congressmen who had publicly expressed willingness to vote with the Democrats on a ‚Äúclean‚Äù budget resolution, plus four leaning that way ‚Äî and the¬†numbers were growing every hour. Since only 17 Republican defectors would be needed to pass the budget, the deadlock seemed almost over ‚Äî and this whole manufactured crisis may indeed be resolved by the weekend. Unfortunately, however, such a happy outcome is far from certain. The reason, ironically, is that the Republicans have backed themselves into a position that is now too weak, thereby tempting the Democrats to overplay their hand. By any rational standards, Obama should now offer the Republicans some minor concessions in exchange for a long-term deal on the debt limit that would permanently cure this headache blighting his presidency. Such a deal would save Obama from lame duck status and maybe even boost him into the ranks of transformational presidents if his health policy gains the popularity he expects. Long-term resolution of the debt limit would also be a powerful economic tonic, catapulting Wall Street to new records, underpinning the dollar and perhaps inspiring the upsurge in business confidence, investment and hiring that has remained so frustratingly elusive since the Lehman crisis. The danger, however, is that Obama is now so confident that he will refuse any small concessions that might allow the Republicans to surrender with dignity. By trying to drive too hard a bargain, the Democrats could push the rational Republicans who are almost ready to surrender into the arms of their suicidal colleagues. The suicide mission to defund Obamacare, even if it continues, will probably be abandoned well before the Treasury debt limit is breached on October 17. But the risk of financial panic and serious economic damage will mount every day as the deadline approaches. Why take this risk? Game theory says that skillful negotiators should offer their opponents a relatively painless way to back down. Obama should look for a way to help moderate Republicans save face.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueTable tennis paddles bear the pictures of key congressional leaders at Sixth & I Synagogue's "Shutdown Central" in Washington, October 3, 2013.It's day four of the government shutdown. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
With the government shut down and the debt ceiling looming, one could argue that the U.S. economy may be on the edge of a crisis. But the stock market is not reflecting this. During periods of crisis and high stock market volatility, correlations among stocks increase.¬† In other words, stocks move up and down together. JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly just published his quarterly market chartbook, which includes a useful chart tracking stock market volatility and correlations among stocks since the Great Depression. JP Morgan Funds
YouTubeElon Musk speaks out about the Model S fire that slammed Tesla's stock: Earlier this week, a Model S travelling at highway speed struck a large metal object, causing significant damage to the vehicle. A curved section that fell off a semi-trailer was recovered from the roadway near where the accident occurred and, according to the road crew that was on the scene, appears to be the culprit. The geometry of the object caused a powerful lever action as it went under the car, punching upward and impaling the Model S with a peak force on the order of 25 tons. Only a force of this magnitude would be strong enough to punch a 3 inch diameter hole through the quarter inch armor plate protecting the base of the vehicle. The Model S owner was nonetheless able to exit the highway as instructed by the onboard alert system, bring the car to a stop and depart the vehicle without injury. A fire caused by the impact began in the front battery module ñ the battery pack has a total of 16 modules ñ but was contained to the front section of the car by internal firewalls within the pack. Vents built into the battery pack directed the flames down towards the road and away from the vehicle. When the fire department arrived, they observed standard procedure, which was to gain access to the source of the fire by puncturing holes in the top of the battery's protective metal plate and applying water. For the Model S lithium-ion battery, it was correct to apply water (vs. dry chemical extinguisher), but not to puncture the metal firewall, as the newly created holes allowed the flames to then vent upwards into the front trunk section of the Model S. Nonetheless, a combination of water followed by dry chemical extinguisher quickly brought the fire to an end. It is important to note that the fire in the battery was contained to a small section near the front by the internal firewalls built into the pack structure. At no point did fire enter the passenger compartment. Had a conventional gasoline car encountered the same object on the highway, the result could have been far worse. A typical gasoline car only has a thin metal sheet protecting the underbody, leaving it vulnerable to destruction of the fuel supply lines or fuel tank, which causes a pool of gasoline to form and often burn the entire car to the ground. In contrast, the combustion energy of our battery pack is only about 10% of the energy contained in a gasoline tank and is divided into 16 modules with firewalls in between. As a consequence, the effective combustion potential is only about 1% that of the fuel in a comparable gasoline sedan. The nationwide driving statistics make this very clear: there are 150,000 car fires per year according to the National Fire Protection Association, and Americans drive about 3 trillion miles per year according to the Department of Transportation. That equates to 1 vehicle fire for every 20 million miles driven, compared to 1 fire in over 100 million miles for Tesla. This means you are 5 times more likely to experience a fire in a conventional gasoline car than a Tesla! For consumers concerned about fire risk, there should be absolutely zero doubt that it is safer to power a car with a battery than a large tank of highly flammable liquid. ó Elon Below is our email correspondence with the Model S owner that experienced the fire, reprinted with his permission: From: robert CarlsonSent: Thursday, October 03, 2013 12:53 PMTo: Jerome GuillenSubject: carlson 0389 Mr. Guillen, Thanks for the support. I completely agree with the assessment to date. I guess you can test for everything, but some other celestial bullet comes along and challenges your design. I agree that the car performed very well under such an extreme test. The batteries went through a controlled burn which the internet images really exaggerates. Anyway, I am still a big fan of your car and look forward to getting back into one. Justin offered a white loaner--thanks. I am also an investor and have to say that the response I am observing is really supportive of the future for electric vehicles. I was thinking this was bound to happen, just not to me. But now it is out there and probably gets a sigh of relief as a test and risk issue-this "doomsday" event has now been tested, and the design and engineering works. rob carlson On Oct 3, 2013, at 12:29 PM, Jerome Guillen†wrote: Dear Mr. Carlson: I am the VP of sales and service for Tesla, reporting directly to Elon Musk, Tesla's CEO. I am sorry to hear that you experienced a collision in your Model S 2 days ago. We are happy that the Model S performed in such a way that you were not injured in the accident and that nobody else was hurt. I believe you have been in contact with Justin Samson, our service manager, since the accident. We are following this case extremely closely and we have sent a team of experts to review your vehicle. All indications are that your Model S drove over large, oddly-shaped metal object which impacted the leading edge of the vehicle's undercarriage and rotated into the underside of the vehicle ("pole vault" effect). This is a highly uncommon occurrence. Based on our review thus far, we believe that the Model S performed as designed by limiting the resulting fire to the affected zones only. Given the significant intensity of the impact, which managed to pierce the 1/4 inch bottom plate (something that is extremely hard to do), the Model S energy containment functions operated correctly. In particular, the top cover of the battery provided a strong barrier and there was no apparent propagation of the fire into the cabin. This ensured cabin integrity and occupant safety, which remains our most important goal. We very much appreciate your support, patience and understanding while we proceed with the investigation. Justin keeps me closely informed. Please feel free to contact me directly, if you have any question or concern. Best regards,Jerome Guillen I VP, WW sales and service
Warner Bros. / IMDBSe7en‚ÄúThe love of money‚Äù, St Paul memorably wrote to his prot√©g√© Timothy, ‚Äúis the root of all evil.‚Äù ‚ÄúAll‚Äù may be putting it a bit strongly, but dozens of psychological studies have indeed shown that people primed to think about money before an experiment are more likely to lie, cheat and steal during the course of that experiment. Another well-known aphorism, ascribed to Benjamin Franklin, is ‚Äútime is money‚Äù. If true, that suggests a syllogism: that the love of time is a root of evil, too. But a paper just published inPsychological Science¬†by Francesca Gino of Harvard and Cassie Mogilner of the University of Pennsylvania suggests precisely the opposite. Dr Gino and Dr Mogilner asked a group of volunteers to do a series of what appeared to be aptitude tests. As is often the case in such experiments, though, what the volunteers were told, and what the truth was, were rather different things. In the first test they were asked to make, within three minutes, as many coherent sentences as they could out of a set of words they had been presented with. What they were not told was that each of them had been assigned to one of three groups. Some volunteers‚Äô word sets were seeded with ones associated with money, such as ‚Äúdollars‚Äù, ‚Äúfinancing‚Äù and ‚Äúspend‚Äù. Some were seeded with words associated with time (eg, ‚Äúclock‚Äù, ‚Äúhours‚Äù, ‚Äúmoment‚Äù). And some were seeded with neither. Thus unknowingly primed, the volunteers were ready for the second test. This was mathematical. They were given a sheet of paper with 20 matrices which each contained 12 numbers, two of which added up to ten (for example, 3.81 and 6.19). They had to write down, on a separate answer sheet, how many of these pairs they could manage to find in five minutes. They were also given a packet of money and told they could reward themselves with a dollar for each pair they discovered. Crucially, they were not asked to show their workings on the answer sheets‚Äîand the matrix sheets, on which those workings might have appeared, carried no identifier and were ostentatiously discarded once the test was done. Nevertheless, by hiding an identification code in a sample matrix on the answer sheet, Dr Gino and Dr Mogilner knew which matrix sheet each candidate had been given and thus who had cheated and who had not. They found that 88% of those who had been primed with money-related words in the first test cheated, as did 67% of those given neutral words. Of those primed with time-related words, though, only 42% cheated. Nor, despite St Paul‚Äôs aphorism, was the lure of lucre during the experiment (as opposed to the effect of thinking about it as a result of being primed) necessary as a corrupting influence. A similar trial on different participants showed that presenting the matrix as a test of intelligence also caused those primed with the idea of money to cheat more than those primed with the idea of time‚Äîthough, intriguingly, that did not apply if the matrix was presented as a test of personality. This led Dr Gino and Dr Mogilner to suspect that self-reflection played a part in controlling unethical behaviour during the test. They therefore conducted a third test in which, for half the volunteers, there was a mirror in the cubicle they were sitting in when doing the experiment. Volunteers primed to think about money cheated 39% of the time when a mirror was present but 67% when it was not. Those primed to think about time cheated 32% of the time in the presence of the mirror and 36% in its absence‚Äîresults that are statistically indistinguishable. Finally, a fourth experiment asked primed volunteers to fill in a questionnaire before tackling the matrix. In among ‚Äúfiller‚Äù questions intended to disguise what was happening this asked them to rate how they felt about self-reflective statements like, ‚ÄúRight now, I am thinking about who I am as a person.‚Äù As in the previous tests, those primed with money words cheated more often than those primed with neutral words and far more often than those primed with time words. But whether someone cheated was also related to how strongly he felt about the self-reflective statements presented to him in the questionnaire. It seems, then, that thinking about time has the opposite effect on people from thinking about money. It makes them more honest than normal, rather than less so. Moreover, the more reflective they are, the more honest they become. There must be an aphorism in that.
Titanic movie posterSay what you will about the quality of financial earnings in 2013 (and we have said quite a bit, making it very clear over the past three quarters that a substantial portion of financial "earnings" has been accounting gimmickry such as loan-loss reserve releases and other "one-time" addbacks which mysteriously end up becoming quite recurring), but one thing that is indisputable is that of the nearly $52 in non-GAAP, adjusted S&amp;P500 EPS so far in 2013, over 20% is attributable to financials. This can be seen on the charts below, showing the breakdown of S&amp;P component industries to the S&amp;P500's bottom line, as follows: † † Q1: Zero Hedge †And Q2: Zero Hedge In other words nearly $11/share of the $52 in S&amp;P500 EPS in the first half of 2013 is due to financial companies. While we don't have the industry breakdown by sector for third quarter expectations handy, it is once again roughly in the 20% range. Which may be a problem. As we reported first in†July†(and†again†on†subsequent occasions), one of the most dramatic events to take place in Q3 as a result in the blowout of rates on Tapering fears, was the sudden and precipitous collapse in the value of unrealized gains (or rather losses) on available for sale securities held by banks due to soaring yields and plunging fixed income prices. Zero Hedge But while this major adverse impact to bank capitalization was immune from also hitting the bank income statement due to the special treatment of Available for Sale Securities†courtesy of FAS115, something else did impact the income statement. As we also reported†first two weeks ago, the unprecedented plunge in fixed income profit in Q3 as indicated by early reporter Jefferies, foreshadowed something very bad is coming. Zero Hedge The revenue collapse, according to CEO Dick Handler, was due to "rising-rate environment, spread widening, redemptions experienced by its client base which "heavily muted trading," and related mark-to-market write downs." In other words:†a perfect storm. Days later, first Citi, and then virtually all other major banks warned that they too will suffer comparable drops in fixed-income revenues and profits. As in Jefferies' case this is due to pushing writedowns through the P&amp;L, to a plunge trading volumes, to an illiquid market, to client redemptions and due to demand for mortgage originations and refinancings grinding to a halt. In some cases, like JPMorgan, the pain will only be magnified as banks have to take massive legal reserves, which will further crush actual earnings, although bank analysts will surely bless these as "non-recurring" as usual (even if they are now about the most recurring component of JPM's quaterly performance), and thus allow them to be excluded from Non-GAAP bottom lines. However, one thing is now abundantly clear: 2013 is now one big scratch for bankers who were expecting that this year bonuses would finally pick up from the prior several years mediocre performance and catch up to the record days of 2009 (just after the biggest wholesale bank bailout in history). The†WSJ summarizes†the situation best: "I haven't seen morale this bad since the Titanic," said Richard Stein, a senior recruiter at Caldwell Partners CWL.T -3.41% who specializes in financial services. And if bankers are not happy, nobody else will be (here's looking at you dear perpetual banker bailout ATM known as US taxpayers). Wall Street JournalNew troubles are piling up for U.S. banks as they prepare to release third-quarter results amid warnings of weak trading revenue, a sharp decline in mortgage-refinancing activity and rising legal costs. Analysts are scrambling to ratchet down earnings estimates ahead of the reports. J.P.Morgan and Wells Fargo are slated to post results on Oct. 11, with Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. due to weigh in the following week.† Poor results could prompt additional job cuts and worsen the already downcast mood on Wall Street, bankers and recruiters said. †The effects of slowing mortgage demand, weak trading revenue and higher legal costs are being felt far and wide. †Analysts reduced revenue estimates for the six largest U.S. banks during the quarter and cut profit estimates for all but Wells Fargo. †Bank of America, which relies heavily on the trading and mortgage businesses, suffered the biggest drop. Analysts have reduced their third-quarter per-share earnings predictions for the Charlotte, N.C., lender by 27% since July 1. †The tempered expectations are a troubling sign for an industry already struggling to overcome lackluster loan demand, a weak economy and the hangover from the 2008 financial crisis, as regulators and government investigators work through a backlog of cases focused on banks' activities during the housing downturn. They may not be good with non-taxpayer funded numbers, but bankers are always quick when it comes to turning a phrase: "For a while we thought a light was at the end of the tunnel," said Gerard Cassidy, a banking analyst with RBC Capital Markets. "It seems to be a Mack truck. In previous years there was always at least one product group that was making money. This year:†everyone†is suffering. Mr. Stein, the recruiter, said he received 100% more calls in August and September than in the same months in 2012 from disgruntled traders in fixed income, currencies and commodities at big banks looking to switch firms.†"There's no opportunity to make any money right†now," he said. "Nothing is happening." Naturally, since everyone wants out and to find a job at a competitor, it is suddenly the biggest buyer's market out there. It also means axes will be flying in 2013 coming bonus time, or rather, just before. Some banks have started looking at contingency plans for future layoffs, Mr. Stein said. "Just when you thought they got rid of all their expensive people, they're going to have to go back and relook at that," he said.†"It's been brutal,"†said Michael Menatian, a mortgage banker in West Hartford, Conn. "We were flat-out busy until May. Once rates went up, things went completely dead." He said he closed around $4 million in loans every month through June, and about $1.5 million a month since then. And we are not talking selected surgial layoffs here and there. The mortgage industry: that bread and butter of banking Net Interest Margin-based operations, is about to be nuked from orbit. J.P. Morgan, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and Citigroup already have cut more than 10,000 mortgage jobs this year, with plans for thousands more to come. J.P. Morgan is accelerating plans to cut as many as 15,000 jobs in its mortgage division by the end of 2014.†All told, the number of employees in the industry will likely shrink by 25% to 30% over the next year, estimates Christine Clifford, president of Access Mortgage Research &amp; Consulting, Inc., a Columbia, Md., mortgage research and consulting firm. Finally, since a dropping bonus check tide will reduce all compensation packages across all levels, it means more disgruntled bankers, less discretionary income for the wealthiest, even less taxes paid into city, state and Federal coffers, less consumption and more saving, and an end to America's deficit-cutting miracle and certainly and end to the days of barely even stall speed GDP. As for what it means for second half S&amp;P500 EPS of which financials represent 20%, and for the hopes and prayers of discredted "the recovery is here" chatterbox pundits (and central bankers) everywhere, we are confident, no pun intended, readers can figure that out on their own

The first week of the partial federal government shutdown is already wreaking havoc on economic confidence.¬† Gallup's Economic Confidence plunged to a mark of -34 this week, its lowest level since December 2011. Tuesday through Thursday's three-day average is also down 14 points from the three-day average from last Friday through Sunday.¬† Here's a look: Gallup There are signs it could plunge further, as there's no foreseeable solution to the shutdown and the debt-ceiling debates. House Republican leadership is preparing an offer on both budget impasses, but it appears to be going nowhere with Senate Democrats and President Barack Obama. In the last, drawn-out fight over the debt ceiling in 2011, Gallup's economic confidence level plunged to as low as -56. "How much lower economic confidence might fall over the days and weeks ahead depends on what the Congress ends up doing in regard to both the current government shutdown and the looming debt ceiling deadline on Oct. 17," Gallup editor-in-chief Frank Newport wrote.  "One glimmer of more positive news is the fact that after a similar plummet in confidence during the August 2011 debt ceiling crisis, confidence regained its previous footing within several months."
AP House leadership has begun building a package for its "final volley" in the budget battles over the government shutdown and raising the debt ceiling, National Review's Robert Costa reports. House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) is preparing the offer for mid-October ó presumably ahead of the Oct. 17 deadline to raise the debt ceiling. It is expected to pair an extension of government funding and debt-limit hike with a "small, but strategically designed†menu" of conservative wishes. These conservative inclusions could include a "mechanism" and triggers for talks on tax reform, as well as entitlement reforms like chained CPI and means-testing Social Security. And there will be some items tied to the Affordable Care Act, most likely a repeal of the new tax on medical devices. The proposed deal is likely to be a non-starter with President Barack Obama and Senate Democrats. They have been pressing for the House to vote on the Senate's so-called "clean" CR to end the government shutdown, as well as a "clean" hike in the debt ceiling. "Wouldn't fly as the price of CR and debt ceiling. Those have to be clean," a Senate Democratic aide said.†"We are happy to set up a process to discuss something like this after we get a clean CR and debt ceiling increase." On Twitter, White House senior adviser Dan Pfeiffer replied to Costa and told him that the Republican offer was "detached from legislative and political reality": @robertcostaNRO I am sure your story is an accurate view of GOP thinking, but they are detached from legislative and political reality @robertcostaNRO Except Boehner said he wouldnt allow default...There is an inherent illogic to their position and strategy "This isn't some damn game!" Boehner said. He said that he wanted Obama to begin a simple discussion. That was a message emphasized by a senior GOP aide Friday afternoon. "Right now, weíre stuck on getting some Democrat ñ President Obama, Harry Reid, Bill Clinton,†Will.i.am†ñ to negotiate on SOMETHING," the aide said.
Does that pay schedule make any sense? I do not think so, nor does Rio Tinto. When costs are ridiculous, companies seek ways to lower them. Thus, the following Bloomberg headline should not be surprising: Rio Replacing Train Drivers Paid Like U.S. Surgeons  The 400-plus workers in the remote Pilbara region who earn about A$240,000 ($224,000) a year probably are the highest-paid train drivers in the world, according to U.K.-based transport historian Christian Wolmar. Australiaís decade-long mining boom has sucked up skilled workers, raising wages for engineers to drivers at Rio, the second-largest exporter of the mineral, and its closest competitors, Vale SA (VALE) and BHP Billiton Ltd.† Rio, which last year approved spending of $7.2 billion to expand the iron ore operations, is aiming to have the worldís first, fully automated, long-distance and heavy-haul rail system operating in 2015. Its automated rail will have 1,500 kilometers (930 miles) of track, 10,000 wagons and individual train sets 2.3 kilometers long, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. The company is spending $518 million on the program that was announced last year. ìYou need to have quite a significant amount of scaleî in fleet and volumes to benefit from automation technology, said Evy Hambro, manager of BlackRock Inc. (BLK)ís $7.7 billion World Mining Fund. Laser Detectors Rioís rail, port and truck movements are all watched over from a control center in the Western Australia state capital of Perth, 1,500 kilometers to the southeast, that has about 250 controllers working three shifts a day. The rail automation is part of the companyís push to use technology to improve productivity and safety and wring out extra capacity from existing assets, Simon Prebble, general manager for Rioís automated trains project, said in an interview yesterday. The trains have on-board systems that check speed, signals and operate the brake, Prebble said. Rio has installed a new radio-based network to communicate with the trains as well as close-circuit television at every public level crossing, he said. ìWe also have an obstruction detection system which uses laser scanners to continually look for any obstructions.î† Never Has Arrived Why stop with train drivers? So, what about trucks? For those who said truck drivers would never be replaced by robots, it appears "never has arrived" because Rio is also going to automate trucking. From Bloomberg .... Rio also plans to automate about 40 percent of its Pilbara truck fleet by 2016. The goal is to reduce costs to $15.60 a ton by 2020, from $23.10 a ton in the first half of this year, Paul Young, a Sydney-based analyst with Deutsche Bank said in a report after touring operations last month, citing Rio data. Automation is set to help shave $1.90 a ton off costs and boost output by 20 million tons, or 5 percent, he said. Technology Progress Technology progress starts at high end specialties then permeates everywhere. Think of all the features in cars first found in Mercedes or BMW, now found everywhere. And so it goes with automation. Truck driving will be automated for mines, and in a few years or sooner, it will spread. Message to 5.7 Million Truck Drivers "No Drivers Needed" On August 15, 2013, I wrote Message to 5.7 Million Truck Drivers "No Drivers Needed" Your Job is About to Vanish; Time Marches On, Fed Resistance is Futile  I made the claim "Over the next two decades, machines will drive themselves and 5.7 million truck driving jobs will vanish." Many readers said that I was wrong, citing insurance reasons,† city traffic, tight ports, etc. Truck drivers in particular said it would not happen, some citing "last mile" problems. Check out a few comments from ATA: Self-Driving Trucks Are ìClose To Inevitableî  Poli: Címon guys even if they make it work, comes up some crazy guy with few thousand dollars buy one Russian 150 miles radius GPS/communication jammer and youíll see how many deaths in one minute!! Hotrod: Are you kidding me? With all the glitches and failure of computers you would have more accidents than ever. Andrew: And in the beginning, self piloted trucks will all slam into a low clearance bridge in Chicago because the programmers forgot to take into account truck routes in various cities.† Angelo: This is a fantasy and nothing more until we arrive at the ìGeorge Jetsonî generation. The infrastructure doesnít exist as it took 200 years to build the existing model which is certainly not designed for it, nor can it be retrofitted for such an endeavor. Kay: I doubt it will happen in our lifetime. There are too many critical components to driving a truck on the road. Decisions have to be made by humans, not machines. If they can ever create a robot with a mind as complex and brilliant as humans and with the dexterity of arms and legs then they might be able to have automated-driving trucks. We arenít there yet and we wonít be for another 30-50 years, IMO. Alchemist: Who will have money to buy the products these automated trucks are hauling? Iíd like to know how they expect to sell anything to the vast nation of jobless, impoverished obsolete humans? One rational person offered this pertinent comment: Jon: Of course trucking companies are excited about this. So should everyone else. Passenger cars will get the same treatment, just a little slower. Yes us truck drivers will be out of a career. Welcome to the world of technological advancement. It happens to all professions eventually. Get used to the idea. The Last Mile Truck drivers talk about how they can never be replaced because of city traffic, tight spaces, etc., etc. It's the "last mile" problem. One possible solution is automated trucking stations just outside major urban areas, where human drivers take over the "last mile". Recall the "last mile" problem with high speed Internet? It's been solved in numerous ways: DSL, Fiber, Cable, Satellite, Wi-Fi. And so it will be with robot-operated trucking. Automated trucking will not be here tomorrow, in the US, but it's coming far sooner than anyone thinks. Fed's Battle Against Technology The Fed is fighting the deflationary trend of technology. It's a battle it cannot win. Real wages have not and will not keep up as asset bubbles in stocks and equities get bigger and bigger (and income inequality soars). The problem is not low wages. The problem is high prices, fueled by the Fed and fractional reserve lending. The middle class has be ravaged by Fed policies. Finally, please note that higher minimum wage laws do nothing but encourage use of more robots. Read more at http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com/2013/10/rio-tinto-to-replace-240k-year-train.html#6miUMqSchxUQqcyu.99
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriNearly one-third of the U.S. workforce ó that's 42 million workers †ó are considered independent workers, according the Freelancers Union. And this number is growing rapidly. By 2020, freelancers are expected to make up 40% of the entire workforce. There were 50,000 new U.S.-based freelance jobs in September and 32,000 new people looking for those jobs, according to an†employment report on freelancers released today by online staffing firm†Elance. This is good news for these workers: Job growth outpaces job-seeker growth by 7%. Last month, earnings†for freelancers topped $6.8 million, a 72% growth since the prior year. And freelancer wages are growing at a healthy clip. Hourly wages have increased by 5%, which when compared to BLS' wage growth, Elance found freelancers' wages are increasing ten times faster than traditional wages. Elance found that more traditional jobs are moving online with a large growth spike in accounting (134%) and legal (49%). Below is a chart illustrating earnings by job category: Elance California, Texas, and Florida have the most people looking for new freelance work. Texas has the highest growth in new freelancers looking for work compared to last year. Elance California is creating the most new freelance jobs, but it looks like Texas needs to up its game to cater to its freelance workers. Elance Turns out, the biggest increase in freelance hiring takes place in Nevada with a 103% growth, followed by Mississippi with an 82% growth since last year. These states also have high unemployment rates with Nevada being the highest in the nation at 9.5% and Mississippi, which has an unemployment rate of 8.5% Elance
www.hamptonsrealestate.com Reports are in from Curbed Hamptons that model and actress Christine Brinkley has sold her gorgeous bayfront house in North Haven, New York †to Cantor Fitzgerald president Stuart Hersch for a whopping $10 million. It was on the market for $8.9 million, and Saunders Realty had the listing. Apparently, there was an extra stipulation to the deal. As a condition of the sale, the Hersches agreed to never hire Brinkley's ex-husband, architect Peter Cook, to work on the house nor ever sell the house to him.† The charming house was built in 1804 and sits on 2.6 acres of bayfront property. There is a private beach and plenty of space for additions. It is also just minutes from downtown Sag Harbor.†
NEW YORK (AP) ‚Äî Shares of sandwich maker Potbelly more than doubled in their Nasdaq trading debut Friday. Potbelly extends the winning streak for foodies going public. In August natural and organic food store chain Sprouts Farmers Market Inc. more than doubled on its launch. Restaurant chain Noodles &amp; Co.'s stock also more than doubled in its June debut. Potbelly's stock soared $18.90 to $32.90 in morning trading. The company priced its initial public offering of 7.5 million shares at $14 per share, above the projected range of $12 to $13 each. Potbelly Corp. raised $105 million in the offering, which is targeted to close Wednesday. The Chicago company is selling about 7.3 million shares, while certain stockholders are selling 150,131 shares. The company won't receive any proceeds from the shares sold by the selling stockholders. Potbelly is giving the underwriters a 30-day option to buy up to an additional 1.1 million shares. The company said in a regulatory filing that it plans to use net proceeds to pay a previously declared dividend; to pay off debt and for working capital. Potbelly began in 1977 as a small antique store in Chicago. The original owner started offering sandwiches and homemade desserts to customers in an effort to boost sales. As of September, the company had 288 sandwich shops in 18 states and the District of Columbia. Its franchisees have seven shops in the U.S. and 12 in the Middle East. In 2012, Potbelly reported net income available to common stockholders of $13.6 million on revenue of $274.9 million. Its shares are trading under the "PBPB" ticker symbol. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Before I get to Selden, I wanted to highlight the type of commentary I‚Äôve seen abundantly from fellow traders over the past couple weeks as the political deadlock has dragged on. Jeffrey Dow Jones, an investment manager at Alpine Advisors and astute market watcher, wrote the following in his weekly commentary blog: I know this isn‚Äôt the first government shutdown, but there are few meaningful parallels today. I‚Äôve seen a lot of analysts look to ‚Äô95/‚Äô96 for answers and I just don‚Äôt think those data points have much relevance. This is new territory. So far, the stock market hasn‚Äôt seemed to care all that much. It‚Äôs down, but not down any more than one might expect with some new macro uncertainty as part of the basic backdrop. It hasn‚Äôt devolved into chaos and panic yet, though it certainly could. And I don‚Äôt see any way that this thing doesn‚Äôt result in some kind of rally once it‚Äôs resolved. In fact, that could be one of the main factors holding the market together right now. Nobody wants to miss that bounce. I discussed that psychology in my Macro Wrap last week when I detailed the price action into and out of the 2011 debt ceiling resolution (note that I said resolution, as an eventual deal was reached, and the market initially rallied, but then fell apart AFTER the deal occurred). Here is what Selden said more than 100 years ago about buying the rumor / selling the news, and vice versa (emphasis mine): After a prolonged advance, do not call inverted reasoning to your aid in order to prove that prices are going still higher; likewise after a big break do not let your bearish deductions be- come too complicated. Be suspicious of bull news at high prices, and of bear news at low prices. Bear in mind that an item of news causes but one considerable movement of prices. If the movement takes place before the news comes out, as a result of rumors and expectations, then it is not likely to be repeated after the announcement is made; but if the movement of prices has not preceded, then the news contributes to the general strength or weakness of the situation and a movement of prices may follow. As we consider whether the market will rally (and by how much) after a deal is reached, the sentence is bold does not get enough attention in the current debate. Traders have been especially affected by the rally after the resolution of the fiscal cliff to start 2013. Most traders likely have a recency bias as a result. But there is one HUGE difference between the late 2012 fiscal cliff debate and today‚Äôs government shutdown / debt ceiling debate: Stock prices are more than 20% higher. That‚Äôs it. That‚Äôs the huge difference. SPX earnings are up about 3%, and the SPX index is up about 25% from late 2012. Meanwhile, market breadth and momentum have been deteriorating since May. The eventual reaction that we get to any resolution is more likely to be impacted by the positioning of the potential buyers and sellers than by the simple calculus that seemingly prevailed after the prior debate. ‚ÄúNobody wants to miss that bounce.‚Äù That‚Äôs with the SPX at 1680. Last year, it was more like, ‚ÄúNobody wants to hold through that selloff.‚Äù That was with the SPX at 1380. What‚Äôs your next move?
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVThe partial government shutdown meant no jobs report. And it would appear that some economists are taking this new worse than others. "Perhaps I'm just in denial mode. But I am seeing purple spots this morning, notheless (maybe being a Yankee fan in October and not seeing the pinstripes in action has exacerbated this condition," Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg wrote. Rosenberg took to lamenting the absence of this jobs report, by repurposing John Lennon. Here are the results: Imagine there's no payrollsIt's not easy if you tryNo jobs report below usIt's going to make me cryImagine all the economists seeing purple spots today  Imagine there's no dataIt's very hard to doNothing to write a report forAnd no market reaction tooImagine all the economists not gazing at their screens  You, you may sayI'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only one I hope someday the BLS will join usAnd give the economists back their fun  Imagine no revisionsI wonder if you canNo need for the economists todayA number that deserves no banImagine all the economists, not sharing all their views  You, you may sayI'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only oneI hope someday the BLS will join usAnd give the economists back their fun. Rosenberg did however jot down what he would have written if there had been no shutdown. He would have seen a 215,000 increase nonfarm payrolls in September, above the estimate of 180,000. "While few economists saw this coming it had already been projected by the initial jobless claims data as the four-week moving average has fallen 20k in just the past month." Rosenberg also would have seen see a drop in unemployment rate to 7.1% because of employment gains and participation rate declines. That being said, he expects the Fed to maintain its "insanely accommodative stance into 2014."† We hope Congress and the White House can get their act together, if only to spare us such episodes.
J.C. Penney stock is tanking, right now it's down almost 6%. There hasn't been any particularly bad news about the flailing retailer today, but this selloff could have do with some news that broke Mondauy night. Hedge fund Perry Capital, once one of the biggest holders of the stock, said that it dump half its stake in the company. Its stake from 8.62% of the company down to 3.28%, according to an SEC filing. Big stockholders like Perry sell their stakes in waves. We could be riding one right now, especially since volume of the stock trading right now is a lot higher than average (around 46.3 million shares compared to around 28.7 million). Another reason this could be happening is simply that JC Penney's latest stock offering of 84 million shares has diluted the stock, and that's finally showing up in the price. Here's the chart:                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        J.C. Penney                                            Stocks                                            Retail                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						1									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        J.C. Penney's Is Tanking    J.C. Penney's Is Tanking        Off 6% right now.
Fact: Japanís aging population and low birthrates will reduce the size of the workforce dramatically over the next decade. That, in turn, will slash the countryís long-term growth potential, according to Credit Suisseís Japan economists. Even assuming a best-case future scenario in which that shortage of workers drives up wages and spurs a greater proportion of Japanese adults to enter the workforce (particularly women, who have one of the lowest participation rates of any rich country at 47 percent) the bank expects that the economyís maximum possible growth rate will fall by about a tenth of a percent each year for the next 15 years. The worst-case scenario, in which labor force participation rates stay where they are right now, puts the decline at half a percent a year. Credit Suisse †The Japanese government recently paid lip service to one obvious solution ñ encouraging more immigration. The trouble is, a recent reform proposal only targets the kind of highly skilled workers Japan already has in abundance, not the low-skilled workers it desperately needs. ìPolicymakers looking to eliminate labor market bottlenecks should be exploring means of allowing less skilled and less educated foreign workers to meet untapped demand in particularly important job types and sectors,î the analysts wrote in a recent note entitled ìLack of Appropriate Immigration Policy a Failure of Abenomics.î ìJapanese immigration policy as it currently stands is unlikely to provide a significant boost for the domestic economyís potential growth rate.î Japanís demographic squeeze started quite some time ago. The Japanese working-age populationóthose between the ages of 15 and 64ópeaked in 1995 at about 87 million. And itís still headed down. The national statistics bureau expects the cohort to shrink by 0.9 percent a year from now until 2028, and reach 70 million by 2030. In a research note published this summer, ìJapanís Potential Growth Rate Set to Slip into Negative Territory,î Credit Suisse Japan economists Hiromichi Shirakawa and Takashi Shiono analyzed the effect of Japanís demographic changes on potential GDP ñ the theoretical maximum of what an economy can produce. Between 1991 and 2001, the drop in the total number of hours worked ñ the result of both a shrinking workforce and a gradual switch from six- to five-day weeks ñ subtracted 0.29 percentage points from Japanís potential GDP. Between 2002 and 2012, an additional 0.4 percentage points got shaved off. No other component of potential GDPósources of public and private capital as well as productivity measuresódropped so starkly. Japan now has about 680,000 fewer workers than it needs for its economy to hum along at maximum capacity, a Credit Suisse analysis showed in a Sept. 30 note called ìEstimating Potential Excess Demand for Labor.î But the shortage isnít spread evenly. Japan has fewer doctors, nurses, caregivers, construction workers, transportation workers, hospitality workers and domestic workers than it needs. Take out the doctors and nurses, and most of those jobs are relatively low-skilled endeavors. Meanwhile, the country has an oversupply of business managers and manufacturing workers. Yet work visas are largely limited to people involved in ìadvanced specialized and technical activities,î such as business executives and manufacturing technicians, Credit Suisse said. Credit Suisse †The Japanese government ignored that mismatch in a set of reforms proposed this summer, which made no mention of welcoming in the mostly low-skilled workers that Japanís economy actually needs, but did include provisions that would make it even easier for ìhighly skilled foreign professionalsî to immigrate by lowering minimum income standards and reducing the waiting period for obtaining permanent resident status from five years to three. In other words, Credit Suisse analysts argued, while the government did finally concede that the country needs to embrace immigration more wholeheartedly, it focused on the wrong kind of immigrant. Itís far too late to hope that Japanese couples could solve the countryís demographic problem on their own. Though the 2012 birth rate was the highest since 1996, the increase only brought the number of children the average Japanese woman can expect to have over the course of her lifetime to 1.4. Thatís not enough to replace the current population, and because the country is already graying fast, the death rate exceeds the birth rate. ìEven a sharp rise in fertility rates would take at least 15 years to begin impacting the working-age population,î analysts noted. While the Japanese government has intervened plenty this year in an effort to end persistent deflation and stimulate the domestic economy in the short-term, they have failed to address the most obvious solution to a pressing long-term growth ceiling, which is to welcome the relatively unskilled and uneducated. But Japan certainly isnít alone in feeling skittish about being inundated with low-skilled workers. Jokes and political platforms devoted to fretting about an influx of Polish plumbers and Romanian construction workers are common in Western Europe, and some in the United States dream of building an impenetrable fence along the southern border to keep out the fruit-pickers, day laborers and dishwashers coming in from Mexico and Latin America. But for Japan, keeping out low-skilled immigrants will limit the countryís growth over the next 15 years ñ and stimulus may not be enough to fix that. Graphs from Credit Suisse report entitled, ìJapanís Potential Growth Rate Set to Slip into Negative Territory.î†
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonA¬†century ago, on October 3, 1913, President¬†Woodrow Wilson¬†signed the first modern federal income tax into law. The sky did not fall. That may have surprised the eminences of the American plutocracy. For years they had¬†predicted the most dire of consequences¬†should the federal government begin taxing the incomes of America‚Äôs most comfortable. Those warnings took a shriller turn in 1909. A flurry of cynical congressional maneuvers sent the states a constitutional amendment, ostensibly designed to allow a federal income tax. Conservatives in Congress felt confident that the amendment had no chance of gaining enough state support to be ratified. To clinch the amendment‚Äôs defeat, they unleashed a fierce rhetorical fusillade. Friends of grand fortune would reserve a special venom for the notion of ‚Äúprogressive‚Äù taxation ‚Äî the idea that high incomes should face the highest tax rates. They characterized a ‚Äúgraduated‚Äù tax on the incomes of America‚Äôs affluent as ‚Äúextortion,‚Äù a ‚Äúpenalty upon ability and intelligence‚Äù and an imposition on a ‚Äúsmall class of people powerless to defend itself.‚Äù Taxing the wealthy, they contended, would be ‚Äúkilling the goose that laid the golden egg.‚Äù In the Virginia House of Delegates, Speaker Richard Byrd predicted that an income tax would put freedom itself in jeopardy. Any new income tax law, Byrd charged, ‚Äúwill of necessity have inquisitorial features.‚Äù He forecast: ‚ÄúUnder it men will be hailed into courts distant from their homes. Heavy fines imposed by distant and unfamiliar tribunals will constantly menace the taxpayer. An army of federal inspectors, spies and detectives will descend upon the state.‚Äù An income tax, Andrew Carnegie summed up, would simply destroy initiative and create a ‚Äúnation of liars.‚Äù Americans ignored these admonitions. In 1910 and 1912,¬†new progressive state legislative majorities across the nation endorsed the income tax amendment. Early in 1913, final ratification gave Congress a green light to add an income tax to the tax code. Months of congressional debate culminated eight months later with a new revenue act that featured a modest income tax. How modest? The top tax rate would sit no higher than 7 percent on income higher than $4,000 ‚Äî the equivalent of slightly more than $94,000 today. That top rate would soar higher in the decades to come ‚Äî much higher. In the 1940s, during World War Two, income above $200,000 faced a 94 percent tax rate. America‚Äôs top marginal federal income tax rate would hover around 90 percent into the early 1960s. These high-tax years ‚Äî for the rich ‚Äî should have been a time of economic calamity. At least according to the critics of progressive income taxation. But real life proved these critics wrong. Commerce did not cease when the tax code levied steeply graduated rates on U.S. incomes. The wealthy did not flee. The entrepreneurial spirit did not evaporate. Quite the contrary. The United States thrived throughout the mid-20th¬†century heyday of high taxes on the rich. We became¬†the first mass middle-class nation¬†in the history of the world, the first industrial nation ever where the majority did not live in poverty. The progressive income tax was a key pillar of this middle class ‚Äúgolden age.‚Äù Fiscally, the nation‚Äôs steeply graduated tax rates raised the revenue that bankrolled new programs and services that opened doors into middle-class life. Culturally, these same steeply graduated rates sent the message that American society frowned on incomes that towered too high over the nation‚Äôs economic and political landscape. Looking back on those years now, the historical record is clear: America works best when we tax progressively ‚Äî and significantly so. History hasn‚Äôt been kind to all those who sought to prevent progressive income taxation a century ago. None of their dire predictions have come true. This is the great irony of federal income taxation‚Äôs first 100 years. Our contemporary political movers and shakers go about their business¬†as if history had vindicated¬†those shrill critics of income taxation in the early 20th century. Pols and pundits today have¬†swept off our political center stage any serious consideration¬†of the stiff progressive rates that even moderate Republicans, like President Dwight D. Eisenhower, once accepted as political and economic common sense. Economists like Emmanuel Saez, the University of California, Berkeley scholar who rates as the leading authority on high incomes, points out that this refusal to revisit stiff top marginal rates makes no sense. Top tax rates today could double,¬†Saez and his colleagues say, without jeopardizing our economic health. Saez has more than economic theory on his side. He¬†has history. On this anniversary of the first income tax, let‚Äôs be sure to remember that history ‚Äî and the Americans who made it. In 1909, former Attorney General Wayne MacVeagh asked ‚ÄúWhy should the colossal incomes and the colossal accumulations of the possessors of what Mr. Carnegie himself calls surplus wealth continue to be exempted from proper taxation?‚Äù ‚ÄúGigantic fortunes,‚Äù MacVeagh said, serve as ‚Äúserious obstacles to the contentment, the peace and the healthy growth of the community as to call for their abatement.‚Äù Let‚Äôs stop treating our egalitarian-minded forebears like MacVeagh as crazy old uncles we hide away in the attic. Let‚Äôs invite them into our public policy parlors. They have much to share. We have much to learn.
APHouse Speaker John Boehner angrily slammed down a copy of the Wall Street Journal on a podium at the start of a press conference Friday.† "This isn't some damn game," he said at the press conference, which came after a House GOP conference meeting on the fourth day of the ongoing federal government shutdown. Boehner was referring to a quote from an anonymous senior Obama administration official in the Wall Street Journal†Friday.† "We are winning," the official said, adding that "it doesn't really matter to us" how long the shutdown lasts "because what matters is the end result." ìAnd then this morning, I get the Wall Street Journal out, and it says, 'Well, we donít care how long this lasts because weíre winning.í† This isnít some damn game!" Boehner said. ìThe American people donít want their government shut down and neither do I.† All weíre asking for is to sit down and have a discussion and to bring fairness ó reopen the government and bring fairness to the American people under Obamacare. Itís as simple as that. But it all has to begin with a simple discussion.î† Boehner also said that President Barack Obama's long-held position of not negotiating on the debt ceiling ó which needs to be raised by Oct. 17 ó won't fly. He said that he reminded Obama during a meeting Wednesday night that neither side gets 100% of what it wants, and this situation wouldn't be different. "We're going to introduce a plan that ties important spending cuts and pro-growth reforms to a debt limit increase," Boehner said. Just after Boehner was done speaking, the White House responded by issuing a comprehensive veto threat against the House's "piecemeal" bills that would fund and reopen certain, more popular parts of the federal government. In a statement, the Office of Management and Budget called on the House to have an up-or-down vote on the Senate's "clean" version of a continuing resolution that would reopen the entire federal government.† "Consideration of appropriations bills in this fashion is not a serious or responsible way to run the United States Government," the statement read.  "Instead of opening up a few Government functions, the House of Representatives should re-open all of the Government. The harmful impacts of a shutdown extend across Government, affecting services that are critical to small businesses, women, children, seniors, and others across the Nation. The Senate acted in a responsible manner on a short-term funding measure to maintain Government functions and avoid a damaging Government shutdown. The House of Representatives should allow a straight up or down vote on the Senate-passed H.J. Res. 59."
Realty outfit Redfin has quantified the trade-off most parents make: how much more to pay for their home in order to live closer to better schools. The answer is pretty wince-inducing: living near a school with test scores in the 90th percentile costs about $100,000 more than living near schools with scores in the 70th percentile.†RedfinSchools have such an overwhelming effect on home prices that even similar-sized houses located near each other but served by different schools see $50-per-square-foot differences:RedfinHere's the breakdown for 27 major cities:RedfinThe group looked at 10,811 elementary school zones in 57 cities while tallying up 407,509 home sales.† (Spotted by the Chicago Tribune's Mary Ellen Podmolik.)
REUTERS/ Rebecca CookA 'Detroit City Limits' border sign is seen as traffic enters a westside neighborhood in Detroit, Michigan, July 22, 2013. (Reuters) - State and local pension plans are underfunded, in many cases dramatically. Enough so that, in the next decade, many states will have to cut benefits or services, raise taxes, or receive some form of a bailout.†Matt Taibbi's latest in Rolling Stone blames the situation on a convenient villain: Wall Street. But it's far more complicated than that. State and local plans are underfunded because of terrible accounting standards, local governments who underfunded their plans, and plan trustees who gave away sweeteners that robbed plans of their assets. That is the inherent problem with traditional pensions, or any type of compensation that is back-loaded (payments pledged for the future). It's too easy to over-promise today and not set enough money aside, but either retirees or taxpayers eventually have to pay up. It's tempting to blame Wall Street, but that does not solve the problem. It enables public employees to lobby against their own long-term interests. Traditional pensions, called Defined Benefit (DB) plans, are supposed to protect workers. Workers are promised that a fraction of their highest salary will be paid to them upon retirement and for the remainder of their lives. Around their peak of popularity, in 1980, about 38 percent of private sector workers had a DB pension, but today fewer than 15 percent do. Nearly all public sector employees still have a DB pension. By contrast, most people in the private sector finance their retirement with an account they manage themselves. They decide how much to contribute and bear the investment losses. If their account is up when they retire, they get a richer retirement. If it is down, they get a poorer one. The advantage of DB plans is that they spread investment risk across different cohorts. High-return cohorts subsidize the low-return ones. Everyone is protected from a poorer retirement by giving up the upside. If you adequately fund the plans it can be an efficient form of risk sharing. The recent revelation of why†Detroit's plans ran into trouble is an example of how this can go wrong. When returns were very high retirees and workers were given bonus money. But this undermines the risk-sharing aspect of a DB plan. You can't have certainty and upside without paying for it. Giving away upside for free isn't unusual in public DB plans.†Wisconsin†state employees and some†Illinois†teachers are offered two options when they retire. They can either take what they were promised, based on salary and tenure, or they can take what they would have earned if their contributions earned a market return (or in the†Illinois case, the return plan trustees hoped to earn). According to pension economist Jeff Brown, when returns were high, many other plans increased the generosity of promised benefits. The problem is plans don't cut benefits when the fund does poorly. This asymmetry undermines the health of the plan. The pensions are also underfunded because states did not contribute enough to them. Each year public plans must make contributions to finance new obligations and part of their underfunded pre-existing promises. Even pre-crisis, just before May 2008, only about half of plans paid in what they were supposed to. About 44 percent of governments that underpaid did so because they faced legal constraints that kept them from contributing the full amount. It's gotten worse since the financial crisis. When a municipality has more pressing concerns than paying pension benefits in ten years, the plans don't get the money they need. In spite of this, many plans claimed good financial health before the crisis. More recently, one-third of state plans claimed they have enough assets to pay 80 percent of their promises. But these estimates rely on the assumption that pension assets will earn at least 7 percent to 8 percent each and every year. All DB plans are supposed to smooth risk across retirees, but public DB plans are special because the taxpayer is on the hook if there's not enough money. That extra guarantee has value. We pay insurance companies premiums to ensure we are paid no matter what happens. Taxpayers provide that same certainty, but the pension funds assume it's free. The guarantee from the taxpayer isn't free because plans typically need money when the market is down. But it's more expensive to raise capital or taxes in a bear market. If you account for the true cost of paying benefits in all states, the public plans' underfunded liability may be as high as $3 trillion, three times what states currently estimate. True, the finance industry had a major role in causing the financial crisis. Following the crisis, plans' assets fell in value and the recession undermined the health of municipalities. But that's precisely why it's so important to put enough money aside when the economy is strong. DB plans have the potential to be very valuable to workers. But in practice they create a number of bad incentives. Managing a successful pension requires long-term thinking, and an ability to both sacrifice for the future and account for risk. Many state and local plans try in good faith to do this, but others are tempted to offer up short-term gains and underfund. Private accounts have been demonized for exposing savers to more risk, but at least the assets are yours and the risk is transparent. For that reason they may be a better alternative for public employees. We learned from†Enron†that investing all your 401(k) assets in company stock is a terrible idea because the fate of your employer and your savings are tied together. But in some ways DB plans have the same problem. A well-structured individual account can offer better diversification and is always fully funded. Public employees are counting on what they've been promised. Many of them don't have Social Security to fall back on because workers in some states, often police and firemen, don't pay payroll taxes and participate in the program. Their pension was presumed to provide adequate security. Blaming the financial industry instead of taking a hard look at what these plans really cost undermines the financial security of public workers. Because eventually some plans will run out of money and workers will face a poorer retirement. (Allison Schrager†is a Reuters contributor. The opinions expressed are her own.)
The energy minister says "It appears that there is a relationship between gas injection and earthquakes". Via Mish-modified translation ... Jose Manuel Soria, the Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism said that it appears that there is a direct relationship between the injection of gas into the underground Castor warehouse and earthquakes. The minister's remarks come after another night of earthquakes on underground warehouse environment. According to the National Geographic Institute, last night during 23 earthquakes have occurred. Two of them, at one in the morning and half an hour later, recorded a magnitude of 4.1 on the Richter scale. The other earthquakes were registered a magnitude of between 1.7 and 2.9 on the Richter scale, according to the sources. The most intense ground motion since records began these earthquakes related to the Castor project came in early Tuesday with a magnitude of 4.2. The Castor project, with an investment of 1,200 million euros, aims to harness an old oil well 1,750 meters below sea level to supply up to a third of the gas demand of the system for 50 days, but apparently, gas injection since September 13 has caused hundreds of earthquakes, most low intensity. Several experts geologists have claimed that many earthquakes are due to "induced seismicity" by the Castor project, caused by the injection of gas into the rock. However, there is no consensus about its risks and evolution. Citizens Complain of Cracks and Tremors Whipping Their Homes Via "as is" Google-translation, please consider "I spent half the night" The residents of the villages near the Castor underground gas storage, near which has registered a surge of earthquakes, tremors live with that uncertainty every night whipping their homes. "was sleeping and moved the closet door that I have just back, I got scared and woke up suddenly, it was very strange, I had never felt anything like it, "says Ricard Fuster, neighbor Alcanar (Tarragona) on the earthquake registered 4.1 degrees last night in the Gulf of Valencia. In the same terms is expressed Pietat Subirats, 47, sleeplessness trailing by earthquakes: "I've spent half the night. I woke with a start, in my house have noticed the two strongest earthquakes and trembled on my street all, "says this 47-year resident of Alcanar. "First I felt the movement of the bed, then started to shake and furniture throughout the house, the dogs would not stop barking area," he recalls. Pietat is outraged: "In my street were all awake by contacting us through social networks. We are angry because these episodes are becoming worrisome, asking politicians and responsibilities to the company. The inhabitants of the towns of the Ebro and Castellon collect sleeplessness and tremors stories. Earthquakes, in fact, dominate all neighborhood gatherings: "We are afraid, I have noticed the strongest earthquake that has been, then moved the structure of the house," says Emilio Valls, a real estate agent for 36 years who lives in a three-story building in Sant MartÌ Mayor Street, in the heart of Alcanar, a few meters from the Plaza Mayor. Blame Game is On Here is a rather curious "as is" Google-Translated headline: "The government did not heed the request of the Government to make a seismic report" Close scrutiny reveals that current government officials blame the previous administration (always a safe thing for politicians to do). The previous government was warned about the need to analyze the seismic consequences of project implementation Castor, gas marine store located at the Ebro Delta told him the Government before the license granted to initiate activities to Scales UGS, but the Ministry of Industry disregarded regional requests, as explained this morning the Minister for Territory, Santi Vila, who has confirmed this morning there was another earthquake of 4.2 on the Richter scale. Meanwhile, the president of the council of CastellÛn, Javier Molinero, has announced that the provincial corporation take legal action "against former ministers responsible for the processing and adjudication of granting Castor underground storage project in the event that there is evidence of negligence in the process carried out by the Government of Spain between 2008 and 2010. " Miller has aimed at Narbonne Cristina, Elena Espinosa, Miguel Sebastian and Joan Clos for their different responsibilities in the project. The Catalan Minister Santi Vila has held that "the issue is not to laugh, it's serious" after continuous earthquakes that have occurred in the last week, warning that from a intesidad of 4.5 may have direct effects in buildings, with the appearance of cracks. Hence, the Government has contacted the project manager, Escal UGS, to have the certainty that the activity has been stopped.Mike "Mish" Shedlockhttp://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.comRead more at http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com/2013/10/spain-suffers-from-hundreds-of.html#08K0CqjhgQyj3DjG.99
Flickr/lululemonOne might think that all of the battling in Congress over passing a continuing resolution to fund the government and raising the debt ceiling would increase volatility in financial markets. After all, the political brinksmanship has already resulted in a partial shutdown of the U.S. government, and now investors are "thinking the unthinkable" when it comes to the debt ceiling, which needs to be raised in a few weeks or the U.S. will be forced into technical default on its debt. BofA Merrill Lynch interest rate strategist Ruslan Bikbov argues that the dysfunction in Washington is actually having the effect of making markets less volatile, for two reasons: (1) it increases the odds that the Federal Reserve will refrain from tapering back its quantitative easing program anytime soon; and (2) the blackout on government-released economic data during the shutdown is removing some of the biggest catalysts for volatility from the market. In a note to clients, Bikbov writes: Although a short-term government shutdown is unlikely to have any measurable economic consequences, a prolonged shutdown should have a negative effect on GDP. Our economics team estimates that a two-week shutdown can erase as much as 0.5% of GDP growth. As a result, continuing brinkmanship increases the odds of a delayed Fed tapering and therefore should be negative for volatility, especially in the upper-left part of the vol surface. What‚Äôs more, with BLS and BEA closed we are set to have a smaller inflow of data in the coming days. In particular, September payroll report is most likely to be delayed. We therefore expect realized volatility to be low in the near term and recommend selling gamma going into next week. If Congress actually fails to raise the debt ceiling, however, Bikbov says it's a different story ‚Äî but not before then: Treasury default should bring higher vol The debt ceiling impasse is a greater risk to the vol market, given some chance of a missed payment by the US Treasury. We expect a severe risk-aversion shock in a scenario where a missed payment occurs accompanied by a dramatic increase in market volatility given unprecedented nature of such an event and its disruptive effect on the functioning of financial market. But expect low vol before the drop-dead date At the same time, we do not expect a significant rise in volatilities before the drop- dead date. At this point the market is used to last-minute deals from Washington, while far-reaching consequences of the Treasury default are likely to convince most investors a default will not occur. In fact, even during 2011 debt ceiling impasse episode volatilities did not richen going into the drop-dead date of August 2, even though the agreement was reached only on August 1 (Chart 11). Although volatilities eventually increased later in August, this was triggered by S&amp;P downgrade of the US sovereign rating and escalation of the debt crisis in peripheral Europe rather than the debt ceiling impasse itself. In a separate note, BofA chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett offers three reasons why D.C. has been unable to spark volatility in stocks this year: The chart below shows how volatility spiked after the "drop-dead date" in August 2011. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
Bloomberg TVWith a year-end S&amp;P 500 target of 1775, JPMorgan's Tom Lee is the most bullish equity strategist on Wall Street. In a note to clients earlier this week when the government shutdown began, Lee argued that the worst of the sell-off in the stock market related to the shutdown was likely behind us, ¬†writing,¬†"thus, we would remain steady buyers of equities." Chatter among market participants is now turning to a more serious issue: disagreement in Congress over raising the debt ceiling which, if not resolved in a timely manner, could cause a default on U.S. government debt. In a note today, Lee says the market is better off this time around than in August 2011 ‚Äî the last time Congress had to authorize an increase of the nation's statutory debt limit. "In contrast to 2011, economic circumstances are notably better. In 2011, confidence in global growth was tenuous at best ‚Äî U.S. housing and autos had yet to turn positive, the euro area was still gripped in an economic crisis and Japan remained mired in malaise," writes Lee. "Thus, the debt ceiling and resulting fiscal cliff raised multiple concerns about tipping the global economy back into recession. In contrast, many economists in 2013 argue that global growth is being held back by US fiscal uncertainty." However, the one thing that could derail Lee's positive view is a debt ceiling accident. "We believe the risk of a U.S. debt default is not high enough at the moment to justify selling ‚Äî but to be clear, a debt default would have serious negative consequences to our positive thesis on equities were it to occur," says Lee. "As we noted earlier in the week, equity markets have shown decent performance once a shutdown begins. The greater risk, obviously, is of a potential debt default. As we noted above, this does not yet appear to be a material concern of the debt markets (as evidenced by CDS spreads) and we believe both political parties have enormous interest in avoiding this outcome as well." Ultimately, Lee thinks the effect the shutdown is having on Federal Reserve monetary policy is supportive of the market. "Fed now likely on hold longer, which provides a decent insurance policy for markets," writes Lee. "Finally, the government shutdown will make getting a clean read on the economic data more difficult for several months. Thus, market expectations for Fed tightening are now pushing out, which is lowering interest rates and is short-term helpful for equities."

ReutersSan FranciscoI've written repeatedly about how¬†spiky America's economic geography is. In the years since the economic crisis, this has only become more true, as powerhouse metros like San Francisco, New York, and Washington, D.C., continue to grow in importance. In 2012,¬†the top ten largest metropolitan economies produced¬†more than a third of the country's total economic output. Economists of all stripes agree the single most important barometer of economic growth is productivity. As part of¬†my recent essay in¬†The Atlantic, my team at the¬†Martin Prosperity Institute¬†ran the numbers on productivity ‚Äî measured as per capita real economic output or GDP ‚Äî based on the most recent data from the¬†Bureau of Economic Analysis. Productivity averaged $36,154 across all cities in 2012. But there was wide variation in productivity across America‚Äôs metro areas. The top ranked metro produced more than $100,000 per person in economic output, three times the average, while the lowest-ranked metro generated just $15,000, less than half of the national average. There were more than 30 metros that generated $50,000 or more in economic output per person, while more than a hundred produced less than $30,000 in economic output per person and eleven generated less than $20,000. The map below, from MPI's Zara Matheson, shows the variation in productivity ‚Äî economic output per capita ‚Äî across America's metropolitan areas in 2012. Zara MathesonNotice the dark blue regions around many of America's largest knowledge economies, including the coastal centers. The map also shows the high productivity of knowledge regions in the center of the country, like Austin, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Denver, and Boulder. The Energy Belt, especially along the Gulf Coast from Houston, Texas, to New Orleans, Louisiana, stands out on the map as well. Other energy economies that have prospered include Casper, Wyoming; Fargo, North Dakota; and Anchorage, Alaska. The table below shows the top 20 most productive metros. The top twenty includes a mix of knowledge and energy metros. Midland, Texas ‚Äî in the core of the Energy Belt ‚Äî took the top spot. It is the only metro to produce more than $100,000 in economic output per person. San Jose, California, the home of Silicon Valley, is second with more than $90,000 in economic output per person. Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk, Connecticut, the finance and banking center of suburban New York, was third with more than $80,000 in output per person. On the flip side, the least productive metros are concentrated in the Sunbelt, mainly in Florida, Arizona, and Texas. The five least productive metros in 2012 were The Villages, Florida; Lake Havasu City-Kingsman, Arizona; Sebring, Florida; McAllen-Edinburg-Mission, Texas; and Punta Gorda, Florida. Among large metros with populations of more than one million, Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, California was the only metro that produced less than $30,000 in real GDP per capita. To better understand what ties this diverse group of top-performing metro areas together, my MPI colleague Charlotta Mellander also ran correlation analysis for GDP per capita for 2012 with various social, political, and economic factors. As usual I point out that correlation points only to associations and in no way implies causation. But the findings are in line with what much recent research has found to be the main factors that contribute to economic growth. The Atlantic Cities First, productivity is associated with clusters of high-tech and innovation, with significant correlations to high tech industry (.56), innovation as measured by patents (.45), and especially venture capital-funded start-up activity (.67).¬†The scatter plot above shows the relationship between the concentration of high-tech industry and productivity (or GDP per capita). The highly productive energy metros of Midland, Texas, and Casper, Wyoming, are situated as outliers far above the fitted line. They have far greater productivity than their high-tech industry would predict. Their economic success, which derives from their energy endowments, while notable, is somewhat unique.The Atlantic Cities Productivity is also associated with human capital, measured either as the share of adults with college degrees (.54), or the share of workers in knowledge, professional and creative occupations (.52).¬†The chart above provides a scatter graph of the relationship between the creative class and productivity. Again, Midland and Casper are outliers considerably above the fitted line. Digging beneath these broad categories, productivity was also correlated with employment in management (.64) and science and technology (.57), and also with employment in arts, culture, and media occupations (.47). Interestingly, despite the high rankings of Energy Belt metros, there is a somewhat weaker association between productivity and employment in oil and gas industries (.32) and no correlation at all between GDP and employment in resource extractive fields. Urban form ‚Äî the size and density of metros ‚Äî also appears to matter. Productivity is correlated with both the size (.42) and density (.43) of metros, which is in line with previous research. Mellander also found weak associations between productivity and politics. Productivity was modestly positively correlated with the share of metro covers that voted for Obama (.21) and modestly negatively associated with the share of voters who voted for Romney (-.21). I'd caution against reading too much into these correlation statistics. Rather, this likely reflects the underlying fact that more liberal, Obama-leaning metros have higher levels of human capital, a greater share of creative class workers, and higher levels of innovation and high-tech activity to begin with. While much has been made of the role of warmer climate in spurring the shift of population to the Sunbelt, Mellander‚Äôs analysis found only weak and negative correlations between productivity and mean January and July temperature (each of roughly .14). The list of America's most productive metros is a combination of knowledge-economy centers like North Carolina's Research Triangle, Seattle and Portland, and the emerging Energy Belt, in boom towns from Houston and Midland, Texas to Casper, Wyoming. Unfortunately, too many Sunbelt metros that built their economies around real estate and inflows of people continue to falter. America‚Äôs new growth model, as I pointed out in this month‚Äôs¬†Atlantic, is taking shape as a knowledge-energy economy.Click here to follow The Atlantic Cities.More From The Atlantic Cities:An Ingenius Home Built To Battle Tornadoes A Cartoonist's Vision Of A Car-Free FutureHow To Design A City For Women
Sotheby's has announced that it has adopted a 'poison pill' ó a shareholder rights plan ó to stop any single investor from owning more than 10% of the company. The auction house didn't name any names or anything, but earlier this week activist hedge fund manager Dan Loeb, CEO of Third Point Partners, upped his stake in the company to 9.28% and wrote a letter calling for its CEO, †William Ruprecht, to step down. He also said that Sotheby's was failing to move into the Conteporary and Modern art space and keep up with its main competitor, Christies. Sotheby's, for its part, wouldn't even acknowledge any of Loeb's specific suggestions in its following press release ó "rather than debating incendiary and baseless comments, we are focused on serving our clientsí needs during this critical autumn sales season, including this week in Hong Kong," it said. What this 'poison pill' does is make it incredibly expensive for any one person or entity to buy more that 10% or 20% of the stock. They would also have to negotiate with the board. †"This action is designed to protect the interests of all of our shareholders," Ruprecht said in a press release. "We look forward to continuing to engage in constructive dialogue with our investors regarding our plans for the business, our comprehensive capital allocation and financial review currently underway, and avenues for enhancing and delivering value to our shareholders. Thanks to our exceptional staff, we have truly spectacular property lined up for sale this season and look forward to delivering outstanding results for our clients." Ruprecht is in Hong Kong right now on a massive sale†that includes 112.8 carat diamond. Here's the press release Sotheby's put out this morning explaining the deal (the important stuff is bolded): NEW YORK, Oct. 4, 2013 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Board of Directors of Sotheby's (BID) today adopted a shareholder rights plan and declared a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase right on each outstanding share of the Company's common stock. The Board adopted the rights plan in response to the recent rapid accumulations of significant portions of Sotheby's outstanding common stock, including through the use of derivatives. It is intended to protect Sotheby's and its shareholders from efforts to obtain control that are inconsistent with the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.  The rights plan provides several recognized shareholder protections: Bill Ruprecht, Sotheby's Chairman and CEO, said: "This action is designed to protect the interests of all of our shareholders. We look forward to continuing to engage in constructive dialogue with our investors regarding our plans for the business, our comprehensive capital allocation and financial review currently underway, and avenues for enhancing and delivering value to our shareholders. Thanks to our exceptional staff, we have truly spectacular property lined up for sale this season and look forward to delivering outstanding results for our clients."The rights will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires 10% or, in the case of investors who are eligible to report, and do report, their holdings on Schedule 13G, 20% or more of Sotheby's common stock. If a shareholder's beneficial ownership of Sotheby's common stock as of the time of this announcement of the rights plan and associated dividend declaration is at or above the threshold applicable to it (including through entry into certain derivative positions), that shareholder's existing ownership percentage would be grandfathered, but the rights would become exercisable if at any time after such announcement the shareholder increases its ownership percentage by 0.001% or more. Each right will entitle shareholders to buy one one-hundredth of a share of a new Series A junior participating preferred stock at an exercise price of $200.The rights will not prevent a takeover, but should encourage anyone seeking to acquire the Company to negotiate with the Board prior to attempting a takeover. The rights plan also has an exception for offers made for all shares of the Company that treat all shareholders equally and that result in the bidder owning a majority of the Company's shares after 100 days.If a person or group acquires 10% or 20% or more, as applicable, of Sotheby's outstanding common stock, each right will entitle its holder (other than such person or members of such group) to purchase for $200, a number of Sotheby's common shares having a market value of twice such price. In addition, if Sotheby's is acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction after a person has acquired in excess of the applicable percentage thresholds the Company's outstanding common stock, each Right will entitle its holder to purchase, at the Right's then-current exercise price, a number of the acquiring company's common shares having a market value of twice such price. In addition, at any time after a person or group acquires 10% or 20% or more, as applicable, of Sotheby's outstanding common stock (unless such person or group acquires 50% or more), Sotheby's board of directors may exchange one share of Sotheby's common stock for each outstanding right (other than rights owned by such person or group, which would have become void). The acquiring persons will not be entitled to exercise the rights.Prior to the acquisition by a person or group of beneficial ownership of 10% or 20% or more, as applicable, of the Company's common stock, the rights are redeemable for $0.01 per right at the option of the Board of Directors.Certain synthetic interests in securities created by derivative positions ó whether or not such interests are considered to constitute beneficial ownership of the underlying common stock for reporting purposes under Regulation 13D of the Securities Exchange Act ó are treated as beneficial ownership of the number of shares of the company's common stock equivalent to the economic exposure created by the derivative position, to the extent actual shares of the company's stock are directly or indirectly held by counterparties to the derivatives contracts.The dividend distribution will be made on October 14, 2013, payable to shareholders of record on that date, and is not taxable to shareholders. The Rights will expire in one year on October 3, 2014, unless ratified by the shareholders of the Company by such date, in which case the Rights will instead expire on October 3, 2016. In addition, the Rights automatically expire concurrently with (but no earlier than 100 days after the commencement of such qualifying offer) the purchase of 50% (including shares owned by the offeror) of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis pursuant to a tender or exchange offer for all of the outstanding shares of Company common stock at the same price and for the same consideration, provided that the offeror irrevocably commits to purchase all remaining untendered shares at the same price and the same consideration actually paid pursuant to the offer.The rights plan and a summary of its terms will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
APA group of Republican senators, including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), blasted Sen. Ted Cruz in a members-only meeting on Thursday, according to a report in the New York Times. Here's what happened, according to the report: Sen. Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.) furiously waved a printout from the Senate Conservatives Fund's website that blasted Ayotte and 24 other Senate Republicans for voting for cloture last week on a bill to keep the government funded. The Senate Conservative Fund had followed the lead of Cruz, who has spearheaded the effort to defund the Affordable Care Act through the continuing resolution. Because those 25 Republican senators voted for cloture, they counted it as a "vote for Obamacare," since it allowed Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) to bring up an amendment stripping language from the bill that defunded Obamacare. In the meeting, Ayotte reportedly asked Cruz to disavow the group's printout. He did not. Ayotte also asked him to provide a strategy going forward. He did not. ìIt just started a lynch mob,î senator who was present told the Times. This goes back to Republican frustrations with Cruz,†which have been brewing since mid-September. Republican senators and aides have been dismayed at the lack of a strategy and endgame from Cruz. And now that†his strategy appears to have failed, the frustrations have boiled over. A GOP aide not connected to the meeting explained it this way: If his strategy had worked, Cruz would take the credit. Now that it isn't, he's not going to take the blame. He's going to pin that on Republican "defeatists," as he reportedly told the GOP senators in the meeting.
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith Thanks to the government shutdown, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will not publish the September U.S. jobs today. But here's a quick tally of the market economists' expectations: Fortunately, we are not flying blind this month. Other high frequency economic reports, most of which are produced in the private sector, offer a glimpse into the state of the U.S. labor market. Let's go through a few. Here's some commentary from the market economists:
AP ImagesOne of the more popular sports played by finance professionals after work and on the weekends is squash.¬† Forbes magazine once called the racquet sport the "preferred sport on Wall Street"¬†because it doesn't take long to complete a match.¬† So we decided to highlight some of the top players on Wall Street. Many of these folks were national champions, All-Americans and internationally ranked. ¬†Some of them are playing professionally still, while others are remembered as legends from their squash days. ¬†¬† If we're missing any big names, please feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. Please be sure to include a photo of the player, too. ¬†

REUTERS/Paulo WhitakerThe defaced Bandeiras monument is seen in Sao Paulo October 3, 2013. According to local media, Indians defaced the Bandeiras monument with red paint at the end of their demonstration against proposed constitutional amendment, which rules the demarcation of indigenous lands. The Bandeiras monument was built in Sao Paulo to commemorate the 16th century expeditions which enslaved indigenous people and were tasked with finding gold and other precious metal in the region. Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
APWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Nobody knows exactly when America would default on its bills if Congress fails to raise a cap on government borrowing. But the recent past gives a pretty good idea of how a default could unfold. Even the Treasury Department can't know how much tax revenue will come in each day after October 17, when it expects to hit its $16.7 trillion debt ceiling. Nor can officials anticipate exact costs, such as how many people will apply for jobless benefits that week. Yet we can infer how quickly the government might run out of cash by looking at the equivalent of the Treasury's daily bank statements from that same period a year ago. What follows is a timeline that shows what a default might look like, based on daily Treasury statements from October and November of 2012. OCT. 17 The Treasury Department exhausts all available tools to stay under the cap on borrowing and can no longer add to the national debt. Treasury expects it would still have about $30 billion cash on hand to cover its bills. Among the many inflows and outflows that day, it takes in $6.75 billion in taxes but pays out $10.9 billion in Social Security retirement checks. By the end of the day, its cushion has eroded to $27.5 billion. OCT. 18 - OCT. 29 Treasury's cash reserve quickly dwindles. Washington only takes in about 70 cents for every dollar it spends and is now unable to issue new debt to cover the difference. The tide turns briefly on October 22, when the government takes in $3.5 billion more than it spends. But that temporary gain is soon erased. October 24 is an especially rough day: Treasury pays $1.8 billion to defense contractors, $2.2 billion to doctors and hospitals that treat elderly patients through the Medicare program, and $11.1 billion in Social Security, while taking in only $9.6 billion in taxes and other income. One possible wild card: Treasury could lose the trust of the bond market. Even though the government cannot add to the national debt at this point, it can legally roll over expiring debt. Investors have the opportunity to cash out about $100 billion worth of U.S. debt every week but choose to reinvest it. If fear of default causes investors to steer clear of new debt offerings, Treasury's finances could unravel almost overnight. "It's very hard to predict," said Brian Collins, an analyst at the Bipartisan Policy Center, which helped Reuters with this analysis. "It's the same thing that causes (bank) runs or credit markets to freeze." OCT. 30 Default happens. By the end of the day, the government is $7 billion short of what it needs to pay all of its bills. So who gets stiffed? Everybody, according to the Obama administration. Treasury says it doesn't have the ability to pick and choose who gets paid. The last time the government faced this situation in 2011, they planned to wait until public coffers were full enough to pay a full day's bills before cutting any checks, according to a Treasury Department watchdog report from 2012. That would mean delays for everybody: the local schools that are owed $680 million, welfare recipients owed $553 million and defense contractors owed $972 million. Some companies that count the government as a major customer would take a big hit. "If you're Lockheed Martin ... it's a big deal," said R. Bruce Josten, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's top lobbyist. Payment delays would grow longer as the default continues, sapping billions of dollars out of the economy within days. OCT. 31 Things get really spooky on Halloween when a $6 billion interest payment to bondholders comes due. U.S. Treasury bills are the foundation of the global financial system, a supposed risk-free investment that underpins everything from retirement portfolios to China's export-driven economy. A missed payment could shake that foundation. The United States currently pays some of the lowest interest rates in the world due to a strong history of repayment; those borrowing costs would almost certainly rise. Stock markets could tumble and nervous consumers could spend less of their money, further damaging the economy. For the Treasury Department, this is where the truly tough decisions begin. Does the government pay bondholders in China or troops in Afghanistan? The Obama administration says it doesn't have the ability to prioritize payments, but analysts are convinced it would at least try. "Not making an interest payment on time is probably a worse way to default than not making other payments," Collins said. NOV. 1 At this point, the United States goes into truly unchartered territory. In theory, the government could keep bondholders whole indefinitely because tax revenues are more than enough to cover interest payments, and Treasury pays creditors through a separate system than other obligations. That would mean longer delays for everybody else. U.S. troops could fall behind on their rent payments, and seniors who rely on Social Security may have trouble buying groceries. If, on the other hand, the Treasury missed the Halloween interest payment and Washington shows no sign of resolving the crisis, the creditworthiness of the country could suffer. That would throw the value of almost every financial instrument into question: the U.S. dollar, bank loans in Asia, the cost of crop insurance in Illinois. "A default would be unprecedented and has the potential to be catastrophic," the Treasury said in a report on Thursday. "The negative spillovers could reverberate around the world." (Reporting by Andy Sullivan and Jason Lange; Editing by Tim Dobbyn) REUTERS/Lucas JacksonBroken glass covers an armed forces recruiting poster at the scene of an explosion outside the U.S. Armed Forces Career Center in New York's Times Square, March 6, 2008.
Daimler AGThe 2014 S-ClassFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Daimler's Mercedes-Benz premium auto brand posted its best-ever sales month in September, growing volume by 15.9 percent to 142,994 cars, the company said on Friday, confirming figures published earlier in a news report. In a statement, the company said sales were driven primarily by China, where volume rose 21 percent last month, and benefited from strong demand for its compact model range that includes the CLA four-door coupe. "Never before has Mercedes-Benz sold more vehicles in a single month than this September," said Joachim Schmidt, head of sales at Mercedes-Benz Cars. "Looking at the previous nine months, we can safely say that Mercedes-Benz will post another sales record for 2013." The statement confirms a report published in German daily Bild on Thursday. (Reporting by Christiaan Hetzner; Editing by David Holmes)
REUTERS/ Gary CameronWASHINGTON/NUSA DUA, Indonesia (Reuters) - President Barack Obama called off plans to visit Asia and attend two summits because of the U.S. government shutdown, raising questions about the strategic "pivot" to the region that he announced just two years ago. Obama had planned to depart on Saturday for a four-nation, week-long trip. He canceled visits to Malaysia and the Philippines earlier this week because of his budget struggle in the U.S. Congress and said late on Thursday he would not attend the regional summits in Indonesia and Brunei. The political standoff over the U.S. budget has shut down non-essential government services and appeared likely to drag on for another week or longer. Another crisis looms in two weeks when lawmakers must decide whether to increase the U.S. government's $16.7 trillion debt borrowing limit. "The president made this decision based on the difficulty in moving forward with foreign travel in the face of a shutdown, and his determination to continue pressing his case that Republicans should immediately allow a vote to reopen the government," the White House said. Obama was scheduled to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, among other leaders, at the summits. Two of his main aims would have been to discuss the Syria crisis with Putin and to hold talks on a maritime code of conduct for disputed territories in the oil- and gas-rich South China Sea. "We are disappointed," said Indonesian Information Minister Tifatul Sembiring on the island of Bali, host of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit from Sunday. "I think the summit will go on, there is a long-term plan. (But) without Obama, you can imagine how disappointed we are. We could hardly imagine he wouldn't come." Obama was also scheduled to attend the East Asia Summit, organized by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), in Brunei next week. Xi, who was on a visit to Malaysia on Friday, did not comment on Obama's decision. But analysts said the no-show by the U.S. president would work to China's advantage. "While his decision is perfectly understandable, it projects a poor image of America as a country that is politically dysfunctional and on the verge of another economic crisis," said Ian Storey, senior fellow at Singapore's Institute of Southeast Asian Studies. "Meanwhile, cash-rich and self-confident China will have the floor to itself." Obama twice postponed visits to Indonesia and Australia in 2010, because of a health reform bill and then because of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. He was absent from the APEC meeting last year in Vladivostok, Russia because of a Democratic Party convention. SEVERE DILEMMA In Tokyo, Japan's top government spokesman, Yoshihide Suga, said Abe would attend the summits as planned. "This is a domestic problem of the United States," he said. "We hope the (Obama) administration and Congress negotiate earnestly to solve the problem as early as possible, so that the problem won't be affecting various issues." Storey said the latest domestic crisis was posing a severe dilemma for Obama, since it clashed with a cherished foreign policy objective. At the APEC and East Asia Summits two years ago, Obama announced the U.S. strategic pivot, or rebalancing, toward Asia, which was seen as a reaction to the growing clout of China. "On the one hand he needs to be in Asia to demonstrate America's commitment to the region and especially to the ASEAN-led regional security architecture that has been one of the central planks of his administration's Asia policy," said Storey. "But with government employees on unpaid leave, Obama cannot afford to leave Washington and be seen hob-nobbing with world leaders on a tropical island." The Washington stalemate has idled hundreds of thousands of federal government workers and comes two weeks before Washington faces an even more crucial deadline - raising the U.S. debt limit so the United States can pay its bills. A bitter debate rages over that issue as well and if left unresolved could result in a U.S. debt default. Denis Blair, the former commander of U.S. forces in the Pacific region, said not too much should be read into Obama's decision to call off the tour. "I would read nothing more into the postponement of President Obama's trip than that he has to stay on and take care of this (crisis)," he told reporters in Manila. "I'm very confident that he will reschedule and frankly it will be a better visit if he's not on the phone having to call back home to get reports on the latest development there." Secretary of State John Kerry will lead delegations to both summits in place of Obama. Kerry will also go to Malaysia and the Philippines. Obama phoned both President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and the Sultan of Brunei to inform them of his decision, the White House said. Obama looks forward to working with Asian allies and returning to the region at a later date, the White House said. (Additional reporting by Manuel Mogato in MANILA and Kiyoshi Takenaka in TOKYO: Writing by Raju Gopalakrishnan: Editing by Neil Fullick)
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueMany on Wall Street are coalescing around the view that a deal to end the government shutdown will get rolled into a deal to raise the debt ceiling, with the two issues being resolved together at once. However, in a note to clients this morning, Goldman Sachs economist Alec Phillips lays out another scenario, to which he assigns a 30% probability: the debt ceiling gets raised, and the government shutdown continues. Phillips writes: The debt limit is increased well before October 17 but the shutdown continues beyond that. It is possible that after attempting to merge the two issues, congressional leaders could find themselves still unable to agree on how to resolve the shutdown by the time the debt limit deadline has been reached. However, it appears fairly clear to us that neither Republican nor Democratic leaders are interested in allowing the Treasury to run out of cash. In such a scenario, it is plausible that House Republicans could agree to bring up a "clean" or nearly clean debt limit increase, which would pass with more Democratic than Republican votes. Media reports indicate that Speaker Boehner has raised this possibility with some of his Republican colleagues. We assume that Senate Democrats would prefer to deal with both issues together, but since the White House's position has been that there will be no negotiation on the debt limit, it might be difficult for them to reject a clean debt limit extension simply because it did not also reopen the federal government. That said, while this is a possibility, this would only come about if the approach to combine the debt limit and the shutdown fails. We believe this outcome has a 30% probability. Still, the most probable scenario, to which Phillips assigns a 60% chance: "If the shutdown continues into next week, both parties seem likely to agree to merge the discussion of these issues. This would make sense from a practical perspective since negotiating and passing a continuing resolution could take at least a week if there are procedural objections in the Senate, leaving little time for a debt limit negotiation before the¬†October 17¬†deadline."
flickr / Damian GadalIt's looking increasingly likely that Congress plans to resolve the two issues of the government shutdown and the need to raise the debt ceiling together, meaning investors may have to wait a little longer than previously thought for everything to fall into place. In his latest note ‚Äî titled "Thinking the unthinkable" ‚Äî Deutsche Bank global head of FX strategy Bilal Hafeez says that while a technical default on U.S. government bonds resulting from a failure to raise the debt ceiling in a timely manner is an unlikely scenario, it still seems to be garnering the most interest as a topic of discussion with clients. Hafeez writes: What would a technical default look like?  Most client interest has centered on the last scenario ‚Äì a technical default. This is an ultra low delta event, but so highly disruptive that it is forcing all participants to think the unthinkable. The closer we get to this kind of scenario, the more we would expect the world to divide into 1) a flight to safe haven currencies, with JPY, CHF, EUR, and GBP preferred in that order. The sharp divergence in long EUR and short JPY positioning suggests the yen will benefit the most from any position squeeze with a USD/JPY revisit of Y90 not impossible as EUR/USD heads to 1.40; and, 2) an exit out of growth sensitive commodity and most high beta EM currencies. As relatively liquid EM currencies ZAR and TRY would be the most likely to suffer ‚Äòcollateral damage‚Äô, while proximity will count against the MXN. Note that carry trades were very soft in and out of the August 2011 US ratings downgrade debacle. The only thing going for carry currencies this time around is that exposure as indicated by DBSPI is relatively light.  A technical default would be enormously damaging for the USD‚Äôs long-term reserve status, with participants taking a view that if it can happen once, what is to stop it happening again at forthcoming debt ceiling negotiations. The extent to which Treasuries sell-off on a technical default at least relative to other G10 Sovereigns, will be critical in assessing the extent to which US and global monetary conditions are¬†tightening. Presumably the Fed and potentially other Central banks would be drawn into the fray in pursuing additional QE actions, which is partly behind the sharp USD fall-out. Ironically the less disruptive a technical default is, the more it would raise the probability of it happening again, adding to the prospect of more disruptive events in the future. Of course, this scenario seems the most unlikely at the moment, even if it is perhaps the most interesting to consider. "More likely when we look back in a month, U.S. short-term rates will have moved up for good reasons ‚Äî a temporary resolution to the budget/debt crisis, which should lead to a sharp reversal of many of the trades that have worked in the last few days when nervousness on fiscal events have been pervasive," concludes Hafeez.

REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst It's the first Friday of the month and there will be no jobs report this morning due to the U.S. government shutdown. S&amp;P 500 futures are up 0.2% this morning after a 0.9% drop in the index Thursday. "I started the week by asking when lack of concern would start to feel like complacency and that threshold has been crossed already," says Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale strategist Kit Juckes. "If there is no political progress over the weekend, investors are going to start to get really concerned about the debt ceiling, though the other side of the coin is that a flurry of newswire headlines about an imminent announcement could, at any time, signal a change of mood. So we wait, frustrated and nervous." In Europe, most stock indices are trading slightly lower from yesterday's close, with the exception of the French CAC 40 (currently up 0.1%) and the Italian FTSE MIB (currently up 0.9%). Overnight, the Japanese Nikkei 225 fell 0.9%, the Hong Kong Hang Seng dropped 0.3%, and the Australian S&amp;P/ASX 200 gave up 0.5%. "10-year [U.S. Treasury] notes traded in the tightest range all week overnight, with¬†most of flow skewed towards better selling generally," says Tom di Galoma, managing director at ED&amp;F Man Capital. "No data in the U.S. today, so the focus will be on¬†Washington developments once again, with the government shutdown and¬†the looming debt ceiling crisis."
