Screenshot via Bloomberg TVThe Fed surprised markets by announcing that it would continue its monthly $85 billion asset purchase program. This sent stocks and gold surging, while interest rates collapsed and the dollar weakened. Bill Fleckenstein, President of Fleckenstein Capital, told King World News that even back in 2009, the Fed was talking about 'exit strategies.' Yet in 2013, the Fed can't even reduce the stimulus. He argues that the Fed is "totally trapped": "Since April, the 10-Year has gone from about 1.6%, to as high as 3% recently.† Now we have to see when this rally in bonds stops.† The bond market will then roll over and then the Fed wonít have the tapering as an excuse.† It means the bond market has ceased to price in the scenario that the Fed wants, and the bond market is not responding to the Fedís moves in the short-run.† In the old days we would call that ëlosing control of the bond market.í† And if that starts to happen, all hell is going to break loose." Fleckenstein also said that this would be a "turning point for gold." "This ought to be goldís moment, right here, right now.† Gold should start a huge leg higher," he said. Click here for the entire interview ª
REUTERS/Jason Reed U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke prepares to testify at a Joint Economic Committee hearing on the economic outlook, on Capitol Hill in Washington, October 4, 2011.We've been writing all day about how the Fed decided not to do something that market people call "The Taper." But my colleague Steve Kovach asks on Twitter what the heck that is, which is a good wakeup call that not everyone knows what we're talking about when we refer to that. So here's your ultra-simple explanation of what's going on.... In the middle of the 2008-2009 financial crisis, the Fed cut interest rates practically to 0% in a bid to stimulate the economy. But even with these ultra-low rates, there's still too much unemployment. So how does the Fed keep stimulating if it can't cut interest rates further? The Fed buys a lot of long-term US Treasuries and Mortgage-backed securities to cut borrowing costs and pump cash into the system. The Fed buys these assets with money it creates out of thin air, which it can do because it's the Fed. At the moment, it spends $85 billion on these purchases per month. Tapering is the process of reducing the pace of these purchases to, say, $75 billion per month. It's not ending the purchases, it's just slowing down the pace of new purchases. Bernanke always said that the decision to "taper" would be dependent on the economy doing strongly. But since the last two jobs reports weren't that great, and Washington DC might shut down again, today the Fed decided to hold off, and perhaps start the taper at a later month. End of story.
flickr/dfbFirst off, congrats to JPM's Michael Feroli for the best "Taper" related pun out there. The title of his note to clients is "Headlines Committee Sets Taperless Bar." In his note, he asks the question: When will the paring back of Fed mortgage purchases begin? He nicely boils down what the Fed is looking for: ...in his prepared remarks Bernanke pointed to three factors staying the Committee's hand from tapering today: first, a desire to see more data (presumably labor market data) before feeling comfortable with the outlook, second, a desire to assess the degree to which tighter financial conditions -- particularly mortgage rates -- are affecting the real economy, and third, a desire to gain some clarity on "upcoming fiscal debates." Realistically, by the time of the October meeting the Fed will only have, at best, more visibility on the last of these three issues. Thus we see December as the more likely time of the first taper. We should mention that there is no guarantee that housing and the labor market will look better by December. In which case to get out of the "QE infinity" box the Fed may have to resurrect issues relating to the costs and efficacy of asset purchases.
Laura BertolaMike O'Rourke at JonesTrading sums up what a lot of traders are feeling right now about the Fed (still easing), the stock market (making new highs) and the economy (seemingly weakening a bit) in one paragraph that will make you uneasy. Right now, the FOMC has ‚Äúa tiger by its tail‚Äù - it has lost control of monetary policy.¬† The Fed can‚Äôt stop buying assets because interest rates will rise and choke the recovery.¬† In short, today‚Äôs decision not to taper was driven by unimpressive economic data, the fear of a 3% yield on the 10 year Treasury and gridlock in Washington.¬† If the economy cannot handle a 3% yield on the 10 year, then the S&amp;P 500 should not be north of 1700.¬† It is remarkable that the equity market continued to buy into easy money over economic growth.¬† QE3 has been ongoing for nearly a year and the economy is not strong enough to ease off the accelerator (forget about applying the brake).¬† Simultaneously, the S&amp;P 500 is up 21% year to date and the average share gain in the index is over 25%.¬† Maybe today‚Äôs action will turn out to be short covering, but if it was not then paying continually higher prices for equities in a potentially weakening economy is a very dangerous proposition.¬†¬†

AP Republican divisions over the party's strategy in budget battles exploded into the public sphere Wednesday evening. In feelings that have been brewing privately for some time, House Republicans let their anger out at Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas). And they accused him of surrendering on the plan to defund the Affordable Care Act (AKA: Obamacare).¬† Earlier Wednesday, Cruz made a statement that applauded House Republicans for proposing¬†a spending bill that strips funding for Obamacare, a crusade that Cruz and Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) have led over the past few months.  But Cruz also conceded that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid "has the votes" in the Senate to strip the defunding language from the continuing-resolution bill (meaning that the Senate could never pass the defunding bill). And he called on House Republicans to¬†"stand firm, hold their ground, and continue to listen to the American people." In other words, he called on the House GOP to shoulder all of the burden of the defunding fight ‚Äî the fight of which he has been the face. That concession, before the fight has even begun, enraged House conservatives. Rep. Sean Duffy (R-Wis.) issued perhaps the most terse statement. "House Republicans have stood firm. We have voted to defund, repeal &amp; delay Obamacare dozens of times. It is time for Sens. Cruz &amp; Lee to show they can hold the line against Senate Democrats," Duffy said."Let's hope they do not surrender before the fight even begins."¬† In a Tweet, Duffy was even sharper in his language. Rep. Sean Duffy Here's Rep. Tim Griffin (R-Ark.): Twitter/@TimGriffinAR2 Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.) put it a little nicer:  The blame game has begun. Both House and Senate conservatives likely realize that the gambit is hopeless, and that the Senate won't pass ‚Äî and President Obama won't sign ‚Äî a bill that defunds Obamacare.¬† The animosity toward Cruz has also been building for quite a while among House Republican leadership.¬† According to National Review, an aide to Rep. John Culberson (R-Texas) got into a heated argument with a Cruz staffer that ended with the former saying Cruz was "not dealing in reality." One House GOP aide complained to Business Insider Tuesday that the Obamacare defunders, including Cruz, don't have a plan beyond expecting Obama to sign a rollback of his signature legislative achievement in a grand, Rose Garden ceremony.¬† Responding to Cruz's statement, Michael Steel, a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner, said only, "We trust Republicans in the Senate will put up a fight worthy of the challenge that Obamacare poses.‚Äù The back-and-forth left some conservatives flabbergasted, like RedState editor and Fox News contributor Erick Erickson: Holy cow the meltdown from House Republicans is astounding. Everyone needs a timeout.
Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke's term at the head of the U.S. central bank is up in January, and the search is on at the White House to find his replacement. Though he will be remembered as a soft-spoken, unimposing, professorial figure, the Fed head has definitely had his moments. Bernanke took over the helm of the Fed in 2006. Only two years into his term, he presided over the worst financial crisis and ensuing recession in 80 years, and was forced to rely on experimental monetary policies that had never been tried before in an attempt to bring the American economy back to life. Luckily, Bernanke was relatively well-equipped to handle the situation, and in recent years has taken extraordinary action to stabilize markets and the economy. Here are 16 times when Ben Bernanke was a total badass. flickr/Karin Beil YouTube/CBS 60 Minutes YouTube/CBS 60 Minutes Dealbreaker REUTERS/Jim Young Paul Krugman REUTERS/Joe Pavel/Federal Reserve Board/Handout Time REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque The Atlantic Foursquare/William D. St. Louis Fed REUTERS/Price Chambers  REUTERS/Jason Reed REUTERS/Gary CameronU.S. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke addresses a news conference following the Fed's two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting in Washington September 18, 2013. The Federal Reserve said on Wednesday that it would continue buying bonds at an $85 billion monthly pace for now, expressing concerns that a sharp rise in borrowing costs in recent months could weigh on the economy.
REUTERS/Rebecca CookDetroit's bankruptcy is unprecedented, not least because it's the largest any U.S. city has ever filed. Now there's a new wrinkle: ratings agency Fitch is warning that if a judge accepts the current version of emergency manager Kevyn Orr's bankruptcy filing, it could be forced to reevaluate all U.S. muni bonds. Here's the deal: Orr is trying to treat the city's†unlimited tax general obligation bonds [ULTGOs] as totally unsecured debt. That means it is eligible for haircuts: If you hold one of these bonds, you face losing many cents on the dollar off the original amount you're owed. To avoid giving everyone an overly enormous haircut, and as required by the notes, the city has levied a property tax. But Fitch says the sums levied to date are inadequate, and the city will end up defaulting on its next debt service payment due, Oct. 1, 2013. The thing is, ULTGOs are supposed to be treated as more slightly more secure than limited tax general obligations [LTGOS]. † And Fitch is not pleased that Orr is trying to lump them together. What's more, some of the tax money raised has been diverted to fund city operations. That's not supposed to happen. And finally, the amount owed on ULTGOs isn't even that large ó about $600 million ó relative to what is owed to pensions and water and sewage bonds, which is in the billions. If the federal magistrate overseeing the case okays Orr's maneuver, the agency says, it could trigger a wave of downgrades:† There has been little precedent for the classification of ULTGOs as general unsecured debt. The [emergency manager]'s grouping together of ULTGO and LTGO bonds, as well as with employee benefit payments, as a single class of creditor is at odds with Fitch<U+201F>s prior expectations.  If it is confirmed in bankruptcy, it will lead the agency to rethink the distinctions made between tax-supported ratings within Michigan and perhaps nationally.† ... If the Detroit case is a shift in the impetus in Michigan toward lumping these obligations together and refusing to levy to support the apparently affordable ULTGO debt already approved by taxpayers, the outcome will lead us to reconsider the merits of such distinctions. Reuters Edward Krudy and Deepa Seetharaman†reported in August that creditors had proposed restructuring the debt to extend its term date.†But Orr was apparently not receptive: "Who wants a 70-year mortgage?," Orr said.†"Saddling the city with decades of potential payments may not comport with our concepts of what's sustainable," Orr said, declining to comment on any specific discussions. What a mess. (Spotted by Brian Chappatta.)
REUTERS/Gary CameronU.S. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke addresses a news conference following the Fed's two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting in Washington September 18, 2013. The Federal Reserve said on Wednesday that it would continue buying bonds at an $85 billion monthly pace for now, expressing concerns that a sharp rise in borrowing costs in recent months could weigh on the economy.Today, the Federal Reserve's monetary policymaking body, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), shocked market participants and central bank observers by refraining from reducing the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under the open-ended quantitative easing program it introduced exactly a year ago. The consensus on Wall Street was that the FOMC would elect to taper its monthly bond buys to $75 billion from the current $85 billion pace. When the FOMC released a statement at 2 p.m., saying it isn't ready to taper because it is awaiting "more evidence that progress [in economic growth] will be sustained before adjusting the pace of its purchases," stocks soared, bonds soared, gold soared, and the dollar tanked as traders recalibrated their bets toward continued easy money from the Fed. The biggest reason the FOMC elected not to announce a taper at the conclusion of this month's policy meeting, according to Fed chairman Ben Bernanke at today's press conference: The surge in interest rates since the last FOMC presser in June, when Bernanke himself came out guns blazing with the notion that tapering would happen later in the year. Bernanke called the FOMC's decision not to taper this month a "precautionary step," suggesting that Fed officials were "avoiding a tightening until the economy is growing the way we want it to be." And when asked about how U.S. Treasury yields collapsed in response to today's statement, Bernanke said, "To the extent our policy decision today makes conditions just a little bit easier, that's desirable." He also asserted during the presser that low interest rates were, in fact, the main benefit of the central bank's expansionary monetary policies in recent years. In other words, the Fed head recognized that the language in the FOMC's June 19 statement and the tone of his own subsequent press conference clearly had an unanticipated, undesirable effect on financial markets and the economy, and he felt the need to reverse some of that today by going against the consensus and leaving the current quantitative easing program as-is. Bernanke and the rest of the FOMC have stated several times this year that the eventual first reduction in bond purchases would be predicated on sustained improvements in the labor market. Lately, however, labor market gains have faltered. The U.S. economy added only 169,000 workers to nonfarm payrolls in August, below consensus estimates for 180,000. July payroll growth was revised down to 104,000 from 162,000. Meanwhile, the housing market recovery that was the big story at the beginning of the year has faltered, and lately, some of the data have been outright bad. Many suspect the surge in interest rates this summer has dampened homebuying activity. So what exactly did Bernanke say in June that caused interest rates to surge? At the time, the¬†FOMC revised up its economic forecasts¬†‚Äì implying a quicker economic recovery, meaning tapering was closer than previously assumed ‚Äì and even laid out a roadmap for tapering, saying bond buying would likely be reduced later in 2013 if the economic data continued to improve like it had been doing. But Bernanke didn't stop there. Interest rates had already been rising since May, and many were wondering how the FOMC would react to such developments, given their potentially negative implications. When asked about the rise in rates at the June presser, Bernanke said, "Yes, rates have come up some. That's in part due to more optimism ‚Äì I think ‚Äì about the economy. It's in part due to perceptions of the Federal Reserve. The forecasts that our participants submitted for this meeting, of course, were done in the last few days, so they were done with full knowledge of what happened to financial conditions. Rates have tightened some, but other factors have been more positive ‚Äì increasing house prices, for example." Little did Bernanke know at the time that in effect, he had just green-lit a bigger sell-off in the bond market (and attendant rise in interest rates) than the one that preceded that June meeting, and it clearly did not pan out as the FOMC would have liked. Fast forward to today. It's pretty clear that Bernanke and the Committee are watching interest-rate developments pretty closely. Hence, the decision not to taper. Surprised? As Bernanke pointed out during the presser, "I don't recall stating that we would do any particular thing at this meeting." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investing Properly Is Often Psychologically Painful (Advisor Perspectives) Investors have a hard time accepting that they are in a "very-low-return world for a long time," Charles de Vaulx of International Value Advisers told Advisor Perspectives. "Some individuals do not want to amend their lifestyle (i.e., save more and consume less) and may not want to be told that at best, the return on their financial assets may be 3 to 5% in the next 10 years, and even less once you adjust for inflation." He also said its important for advisors to remind clients that they cannot "just equate high economic growth to good stock market performance, particularly with respect to emerging markets."¬† Finally, he adds that advisors should avoid generalizations. "They should understand that the devil is in the details, and that oftentimes you have to do what hurts. Today, interest rates are low, so everybody is chasing yield. They want to own REITs, MLPs and emerging-market debt funds. Investing is about having the fortitude to resist the temptation of these things. Investing properly is often psychologically painful." Trio Of Merrill Brokers Jump Ship To Deutsche Bank (The Wall Street Journal)  Michael C. Dawson, Stephan Farber, and Stephen Cordill have left Bank of America's retail brokerage unit to join Deutsche Bank's wealth management office in Houston, according to The Wall Street Journal. Together they managed over $1 billion in client assets at Merrill Lynch. "Texas is an extremely important region for us, with continued wealth creation as a result of innovation and outstanding ingenuity, particularly in the energy sector," Deutsche Bank's Haig Ariyan told The WSJ. 8 Best Conferences For Financial Advisors In 2014 (Nerd's Eye View) Financial planners come across numerous conferences every year and it's often hard to pick the best ones for them. Michael Kitces of Nerd's Eye View has identified eight conferences in 2014 that advisors should watch for: 1. For technical content, he recommends the AICPA Personal Financial Planning (PFP) conference at the Aria Resort &amp; Casino in Las Vegas. 2. For advisor technology he recommends the Technology Tools For Today (T3) Conference in Anaheim, Calif. 3. For advanced practitioners he suggests The FPA Retreat in Miami, Fla. 4. For investment management, IMCA Annual Conference in Boston. 5. The best conference in terms of overall value is the FPA Northern California ("NorCal") in San Francisco. Kitces writes that this is for both firm owners and their staff. 6. The FPA Experience conference in Seattle is Kitces' nomination for the best overall financial planning conference. This one is great for networking and is popular among the international financial planning world as well. 7. The NAPFA iConference is the best virtual conference. 8. Finally, for the best practice management conferences Kitces recommends focusing on the advisor's own custodian or broker dealer conference. "Given the size of some organizations, many of these events have become absolutely huge, as Schwab IMPACT and LPL Focus now pull several thousand participants." The Fed Projects Rates Through 2016 (Business Insider)  The Fed announced today that it would not be tapering its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program. The Fed wants "more evidence of growth progress before tapering." The Fed also released its latest economic projections, with 12 participants saying they expect the first hike from current 0 - 0.25% to come in 2015. "[E]ach shaded circle indicates the value (rounded to the nearest 1/4 percentage point) of an individual participant‚Äôs judgment of the appropriate level of the target federal funds rate at the end of the specified calendar year or over the longer run," explained the Fed. Federal Reserve Gold Is Not Money And Gold Prices Haven't Bottomed Yet (Business Insider)¬†  Jim Rogers doesn't think gold prices have bottomed yet. "Until the faithfuls are washed out of gold, in my view we haven't made the bottom," Rogers told Business Insider. This correction is in part because the precious metal has had a "magnificent 12-year run." Rogers also doesn't think gold is money. "A lot of people think gold is holy, that it's money. There are a lot of people who will tell you gold is the only real money. The problem with that is that throughout history silver has been used, brass has been used, seashells have been used, lots of things have been used as money. The only thing that's money as far as I'm concerned is if you go into a shop and you hand a person whatever it is and they accept it. If you go in and hand them gold, they're not going to hand you a loaf of bread. They're not going to give you a tie, they're not going to give you anything. Until that happens it's not money."
The Powerball lottery jackpot has hit a whopping $400 million, and the question on everyone's mind is "At what point should I actually start caring about the Powerball Lottery"? Answering this question is not so simple, because in addition to calculating the odds of winning a potential jackpot, you also have to figure out the odds that you will have to split the potential jackpot. And the odds of a split change all the time, because the bigger the jackpot, the more people buy tickets. So we've decided to really drill down into the math to combine all the factors, including jackpot size, and the odds you will have to split the pot if you do win. Powerball is interesting in the sense that there are a number of stagnant cash prizes that you can win, as well as an ever-increasing jackpot.† The expected value of spending $2 on a Powerball ticket is actually †-$1.58 when you ignore the jackpot. That's right, the expected value of playing when you ignore the jackpot is negative.† And while the probability that you in fact win the jackpot is outstandingly small ó 1 in 175,223,516 to be precise ó the jackpots can grow outstandingly big, which makes it so that at some point, you can actually get a positive expected value. For instance, when we last looked at Powerball the jackpot had reached a whopping $600 million. If you look at it in the most rudimentary form, your expected value for playing Powerball was not only positive, but also pretty attractive. Because of the ludicrously high jackpot, people could expect to gain about a $1.78 after playing.† Walter Hickey / BI One complicating factor, however, is the fact that when you factor in the probabilities of split jackpots, you will decrease that expected value.† The probability that the winner will have to split the jackpot is also really significant. Walter Hickey / BI So, the expected value for the Powerball lottery is actually a function of the number of players.† And clearly, the higher the Powerball Jackpot, the more people who will participate.† So is there a way we can analyze the Powerball lottery to try to figure out how many people will play the lottery at a given given Jackpot? Does that relationship actually exist? As it turns out, it absolutely does. Let's check it out.† We looked at over one thousand †Powerball lotteries ó 1117 to be precise ó that have taken place since 2003 in order to get a sense of how many people play the game.† LottoReport.com keeps an outstanding record of how much each Powerball lottery has taken in over the past two decades. It's remarkable. For pre-January 18, 2012 Powerball lotteries, the amount of money collected is the amount of tickets sold, as they cost only $1 prior to that switch. After January 18, 2012, we merely have to divide the take by two to ascertain the number of tickets bought. LottoReport also lists the jackpot, in millions, for each lottery.† Combining this dataset with information from Powerball that shows when a lottery was a winner ó and how many winners there were ñ we're able to make this nice plot of lottery participation as a function of Jackpot value. Red dots are lotteries that had a winner: Walter Hickey / BI†Cool, right? So we can notice a very, very clear upwards trend. The higher the jackpot, the higher the participation.† Please note that following Powerball's shift to a $2 lottery, the minimum jackpot prize ó what the jackpot resets to after paying out a jackpot ó has increased from $10 million to $40 million. As a result, any information from below $40,000,000 isn't super relevant here. The advantage, though, it it helps us ascertain people's behavior at the lower bound, which is crucial for a good regression.† What we want to find, looking at this data set, is a formula that will help us predict the estimated number of lottery players given a certain jackpot value. That way, we can calculate the expected value at every single lottery jackpot amount in order to figure out when the expected value says it's worth it to play. In order to find that formula, we're going to run a linear regression.† A linear regression calculates the line of best fit given all the values.† However, since it appears that the relationship between jackpot size and powerball players may be polynomial ó growth accelerates as the jackpot grows ó we'll run a second regression that calculates a curve of best fit instead of a line of best fit.† Here's the result: † Walter Hickey / BI So this is what this chart is telling us.† When we ran the linear regression, we found that the line that best fit our sample was the straight line with the formula: Tickets Sold = 217,629*(Jackpot in Millions) + 5,912,850 So what does this mean? For every additional million you add, an additional 217,629 tickets will be bought. The basic number of tickets bought regardless of the jackpot is 5,912,850. The R2†value tells us that this regression line accounts for about 70% of the correlation between the advertised jackpot and number of tickets bought (simplified). Next let's look at the polynomial one. Tickets Sold = 670*(Jackpot in Millions)2 +†19,989*(Jackpot in Millions)+ 1,4063,282 This one assumes that there is an element of growth at an increasing rate, and accounts for roughly 87% of the correlation. You'll notice that it seems to more accurately convey the participation of large-jackpot lotteries.† So moving forward, we'll look to these two models ó the linear and polynomial regressions ó as estimates of the rate of participation given a new lottery jackpot amount.† As a result, we can plug in the value of any hypothetical jackpot we want to estimate the number of tickets bought given historical rates of participation in Powerball.† One last thing. This chart that shows the probability that there are multiple winners at a given participation rate. We'll use the participation rates from our regressions to find these probabilities at each jackpot value.† Walter Hickey / BI And the thing is that jackpot splitting will severely hit your bottom line. So let's look at what we know: Given the first two, we can figure out the probability a jackpot is split ó and how it will be split ó for every advertised jackpot value.† By factoring in the third, we can estimate the values of those splits.† Combining in the fourth, we can calculate the expected value of each jackpot, disregarding the rest of the expected value.† And by adding in the fifth, we can get the full expected value for a ticket bought at any advertised jackpot price! Finally, there's one more step. The vast majority of Jackpot winners†prefer to take all the cash up-front, rather than in an annual 30-payment annuity. As a tradeoff for getting the money up front, the winner will have to accept the value of the winnings at a discount.† After some analysis of the estimated winnings, each "advertised" annuity jackpot is roughly 1.8 times larger than the cash-up-front value. We can use this to calculate the estimated cash payout for each advertised lottery. The next two charts show the estimated value of both the Annuity style-winnings as well as the cash-up front winnings for both the linear and polynomial models of lottery participation. Here's what it looks like for the linear model of lottery participation: Walter Hickey / BI Here's what it looks like for polynomial regression model of lottery participation. Walter Hickey / BI So what did we learn?
This one was for the robots. Fed Chief Ben Bernanke shocked Wall Street by announcing no change in the Fed's $84 billion monthly bond buying program, quantitative easing. And the trading on that announcement was so fast and furious that to the naked eye it looked like a spike shooting straight up. What it really was, at least to anything that can see the market in milliseconds, was an explosion. You can check out the action for yourself below, slowed down (or blown up, whichever) to 150 milliseconds, thanks to market research firm Nanex. As Nanex CEO Eric Hunsader put it, "What any human saw was like reading yesterdays newspaper." We've got one of his awesome charts below. For more, head to Nanex. First, this is what humans saw: Yahoo Finance And now for what the robots saw: Nanex
Twitter.com/HedgeyeEnergyHedgeye analyst Kevin Kaiser Some recent comments from a 26-year-old analyst that caused a sell-off in Kinder Morgan seem to have spurred the company's multibillionaire CEO to host a conference call to defend his energy empire. At the beginning of this month, Hedgeye Risk Management senior energy analyst Kevin Kaiser sent out an email called "Best New Idea: Short Kinder Morgan."¬† Basically, Kaiser's claims focus on how Kinder Morgan allocates capital expenditures (CapEx) so they can report higher "Distributable Cash Flow" which means higher payouts for investors. ¬†He also calls into question the safety of Kinder's pipelines. It gets pretty complex. (You can get some more detail from this Sept. 10th Hedgeye report available¬†here¬†[.PDF])¬† The point is that Kaiser's comments knocked off $4 billion from the company's market cap, according to Reuters. Following the sell-off, Kaiser, who graduated from Princeton a few years ago, was widely criticized by the Wall Street analyst community in the Reuters report. ¬† Fast-forward to today and we have Kinder Morgan's CEO/chairman Richard Kinder, who is worth an estimated $10.2 billion, hosting a call. The call happened early this morning before the opening bell. ¬†It's pretty obvious that the call is a response to Kaiser's reports. He didn't name him explicitly, but he did refer to Hedgeye once.¬† Those who listened in were buzzing about how angry Kinder's CEO sounded.¬† "It was the most ferocious I've ever heard a high-profile CEO get," a source who was on the call said.¬† We listened to the audio, too. It was pretty intense, though whether his tone is "ferocious" is debatable. ¬† AP ImagesAfter the opening remarks, Kinder goes into a 20-minute or so discussion. ¬†That part was relatively calm. ¬† The CEO said investors should rely on his and the company's employees' experience over an analyst.¬† "I would also say that experience counts as I said I have 33 years in the pipeline¬†industry, the rest of the team making the real decisions on maintaining our pipelines have as a combined total hundreds of¬†years experience in this business. And I would suggest that investors should prefer to rely on that expertise rather than¬†the opinion of one analyst looking at a number of financial reports.¬†And I can't let it pass without mentioning that some of the numbers in that report, were just flat out wrong ..." Kinder said during the beginning of the call.¬† Toward the end and during the Q&amp;A is where he gets a little fired up. ¬†He really gets into it when it comes to all the numbers.¬† Here's an example:¬† "Let me start with the first item, which is launchers and receivers. In 2011, El Paso was in the process of a long-term¬†plan to put launchers and receivers on all their pipelines. Now after those in the pipeline industry, this is simply the¬†mechanical factor ‚Äì facts that you use to insert the pigs or other ILI devices in the pipeline and then retrieve them at the¬†end of the run ‚Äî because El Paso was completing this project and it was finished in 2012, in 2011, they spent $41¬†million on launchers and receivers. Because that project was completed, we are only spending $6 million on launchers¬†and receivers in 2013. That is a difference of $35 million. If you're keeping score put down 35." Kaiser, who has more than 4,800 Twitter followers, seemed disappointed that he didn't get to ask questions on the call.¬†¬† Props to those $kmp analysts that were allowed to ask questions, and asked good ones. But I had better q's! Listen to the call here ¬ª
Flickr/Oracle_Photos_ScreenshotsOracle just reported earnings and it's another miss on revenue! It reported 59 cents EPS (analysts were expecting 56 cents). Non-GAAP revenue was $8.38 billion. Analysts were expecting $8.48 billion. This is Oracle's first fiscal quarter, not traditionally one of Oracle's biggest, so analysts were expecting a modest 3.3% increase in year-over-year revenues. The most important part of this quarter was if Oracle delivered as expected. The company's previous two quarters were misses on revenue. So we are now talking a three-in-a-row miss, even though it beat on EPS. Oracle president Mark Hurd has been revamping the sales force and trying new methods, like hiring college grads, to increase sales. The situation has caused some of Oracle's most experienced sales people to grumble and/or find jobs elsewhere. That said, Wall Street analysts are still mostly gung ho on Oracle and its long-term prospects. It's still a huge database and enterprise software company and its customers are not going to abandon it lightly. Plus, during the quarter Oracle announced a big, renewed partnership with one of its big customers, Salesforce.com. Salesforce will become the proving point for Oracle's new Oracle 12c database, designed specifically for cloud providers. It also announced a partnership deal with Microsoft that makes it easy to use Oracle's database on Microsoft's cloud, Azure. Here's the relevant parts of the press release: Oracle Reports Q1 GAAP EPS Up 14% to 47 Cents; Q1 Non-GAAP EPS Up 12% to 59 Cents Q1 Operating Cash Flow Increases to $6.3 Billion, TTM Operating Cash Flow Increases to $14.8 Billion REDWOOD SHORES, CA--(Marketwired - Sep 18, 2013) - Oracle Corporation (NYSE: ORCL) today announced that both fiscal 2014 Q1 GAAP and non-GAAP total revenues were up 2% to $8.4 billion. GAAP new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues were up 5% to $1.7 billion while non-GAAP new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues were up 4% to $1.7 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 7% to $4.4 billion. Hardware systems products revenues were $669 million. GAAP operating income was flat at $2.9 billion, and GAAP operating margin was 34%. Non-GAAP operating income was up 4% to $3.7 billion, and non-GAAP operating margin was 45%. GAAP net income was up 8% to $2.2 billion, while non-GAAP net income was up 6% to $2.8 billion. GAAP earnings per share were up 14% to $0.47, while non-GAAP earnings per share were up 12% to $0.59. GAAP operating cash flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $14.8 billion.¬† Without the impact of the US dollar strengthening compared to foreign currencies, Oracle's reported Q1 GAAP earnings per share would have been up 17% and non-GAAP earnings per share would have been up 14%. GAAP and non-GAAP total revenues also would have been up 4%; GAAP new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues would have been up 7% while non-GAAP new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues would have been up 6%. "Non-GAAP earnings per share increased 12% to $0.59, the best ever result for the first quarter of our fiscal year," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz. "Those record level earnings were enabled by an operating margin of 45% for the quarter. We also set a free cash flow record of over $6 billion in Q1, and then we returned half of that to our stockholders by repurchasing $3 billion of our shares in the quarter." "Engineered systems had its best ever Q1 in terms of unit sales, growing over 60% compared with the same quarter last year," said Oracle President Mark Hurd. "New software license results were especially strong in the Americas, which saw 15% growth in constant currency." "Next week at Oracle OpenWorld, we will announce the In-Memory Option for the Oracle database," said Oracle CEO, Larry Ellison. "Virtually every existing application that runs on top of the Oracle database will run dramatically faster by simply turning on the new In-Memory feature. Our customers don't have to make any changes to their applications whatsoever; they simply flip on the in-memory switch, and the Oracle database immediately starts scanning data at a rate of billions or tens of billions of rows per second." The Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.12 per share of outstanding common stock. This dividend will be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 8, 2013, with a payment date of October 29, 2013. ¬† ¬†
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidAt yesterday's Value Investing Congress, hedge funder Whitney Tilson†laid out his pessimism about K12, a for-profit education company for students in kindergarten through 12th grade. "I†know the company and the space well (K12ís primary business is running online charter schools), and itís a VERY high conviction short due to the fundamentals (a company thatís run amok coming under increasing scrutiny) and the very high valuation (nearly 50x trailing EPS)," Tilson, who runs Kase Capital, wrote in an email.  "K12 reminds me of the subprime mortgage lenders and for-profit colleges when they were flying high ñ and the ending will be similar I believe," he said. Strong stuff. Tilson shared his presentation with Business Insider.
REUTERS/Price ChambersFederal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke (R) speaks with Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Donald Kohn at the Jackson Hole Economic Symposium in Grand Teton National Park, August 27, 2010.Almost no one saw this coming. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
This is probably the most consequential chart of the day. Following the Fed's decision to not "taper" (i.e., not reduce the pace of bond purchases) interest rates plunged. Not only will the Fed keep up the bond buying, but Ben Bernanke also went super-dovish in his press conference, suggesting that easy money and bond buying could last a little while longer. Here's a look at yields on the 10-year Treasury note year to date. Just the other day yields hit 3%. Today, interest rates flat-out collapsed. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
The economic universe's collective jaw dropped this afternoon when the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) announced there would be no taper on the Fed's large-scale asset purchasing program. The Fed also released its report on economic projections, which included the FOMC participants' initial forecasts for the target federal funds rate in 2016. Currently, Chairman Ben Bernanke said the federal funds rate would stay at its current level of 0-0.25%. The overwhelming major of participants (12) expect the first rate hike to come in 2015. But three see it coming as early as 2014 and two as late as 2016. In this chart, you can see where each participant sees rates heading. In the longer run, the Fed agrees rates should be at 4%. For 2016, there's no clear consensus (though the target is closer to the 2-3% range). This is largely in line with expectations. Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius and Deutsche Bank's Joe Lavorgna expected the consensus to be around 2.25%. SocGen's Aneta Markowska was looking for 2.75%-3%. "[E]ach shaded circle indicates the value (rounded to the nearest 1/4 percentage point) of an individual participant‚Äôs judgment of the appropriate level of the target federal funds rate at the end of the specified calendar year or over the longer run," explained the Fed. Federal Reserve
REUTERS/Jason Reed The Federal Reserve's FOMC monetary policymaking body just shocked markets with the decision to refrain from reducing the amount of monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing (QE) program. A "tapering" of QE was widely expected on Wall Street, and judging by the market reaction to the release of this FOMC statement, it's pretty clear that markets were indeed pricing in an announcement of a reduction of bond purchases by the Fed going forward (stocks, bonds, and gold are surging in the wake of the release). Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke just delivered a press conference and Q&amp;A with reporters. Below is our live-blog. ------------ 2:30 PM: Bernanke is reading prepared remarks, which are largely recycled from the FOMC statement (click here for the full text of the statement). 2:38 PM: Bernanke says the FOMC concluded that the economic data do not provide sufficient evidence that the economy is in line with the FOMC's baseline economic outlook such that it justifies a reduction in quantitative easing at this meeting. 2:39 PM: "As today's decision underscores, asset purchases are not on a preset course." 2:41 PM: Bernanke says the FOMC may not elect to hike the federal funds rate until the unemployment rate is "considerably below" the central bank's 6.5% threshold. 2:43 PM: Q&amp;A begins! 2:44 PM: Bernanke says most of the improvement in the unemployment rate is due to job creation, not the downward trend in the labor force participation rate. He calls the unemployment rate the single best indicator of the labor market, but admits that it's not fully representative. 2:46 PM:¬†When asked whether the Fed's talk of tapering in recent months is responsible for the tightening in financial conditions that has partly delayed them from tapering today, Bernanke says the Fed tried to communicate as clearly as possible its outlook for monetary policy. 2:49 PM:¬†Bernanke says tapering could still happen later this year yet, but even if they do that, continued subsequent steps to taper would be dependent on continued improvement in the economy. 2:52 PM: Bernanke ducks a question about his future plans, staying on for a third term, etc. 2:57 PM:¬†Bernanke admits that the Fed has been overoptimistic on out-year growth, but says the Fed was too pessimistic on unemployment this year, as the headline unemployment rate has fallen faster than the FOMC had projected. 3:00 PM: Bernanke says the FOMC does not need a scheduled press conference to make a major decision like the first reduction in quantitative easing. It could hold a press conference with reporters or find some other way to get the rationale behind the decision out to the public. 3:01 PM:¬†Bernanke says the FOMC is discussing how it could clarify its forward guidance on the federal funds rate; e.g., an inflation floor, which he says could be a sensible modification to the guidance. 3:03 PM: "I don't recall stating that we would do any particular thing at this meeting." 3:04 PM:¬†Bernanke says a factor that concerned the FOMC was upcoming fiscal headwinds. A government shutdown, and perhaps even moreso, a failure to raise the debt limit, could have negative effects on the economy, which the Fed would have to take into account, because the central bank is charged with helping to keep the economy on course. 3:11 PM:¬†Bernanke says monetary policies have been successful in lowering interest rates in recent years, thereby promoting economic recovery. Moreover, monetary policy provided at least a partial offset to fiscal drag. 3:16 PM:¬†Bernanke says that to the extent that the FOMC's announcement today makes conditions a little bit easier, the central bank welcomes that. 3:19 PM:¬†Bernanke says the Fed has strong institutional credibility. He is not particularly concerned about the political environment for the Fed, and that it will maintain its independence going forward. 3:20 PM:¬†Bernanke says the FOMC has regularly reviewed forward guidance, and says there are a number of ways it could be strengthened. He says it's very important that the Fed not take these steps lightly, and that it makes sure that changing forward guidance would be credible. 3:21 PM:¬†Bernanke says it's certainly the case that there are too many people in poverty. He says the economy is becoming more unequal. 3:24 PM:¬†Bernanke says emerging markets are an important issue. The Fed has a lot of economists that spend all of their time looking at international aspects of monetary policy. Problems in emerging markets, or any country, for that matter, can affect the U.S. as well. 3:27 PM:¬†Q&amp;A concludes.
Juan Gabarron / TwitterCesar Perales, secretary of state, New York and Edith Cooper, global head of human capital management at Goldman Sachs.Data-driven metrics are being used to attract and retain top talent in today's workplace. This is supposed to make employers' jobs easier. They're better able to identify top talent based on performance data or potentially know when an employee is thinking about jumping ship based on algorithms.¬† But there's an even more important reason why data is crucial: it keeps employers¬†honest, according to Edith Cooper, global head of human capital management at Goldman Sachs. If companies use performance data more, Cooper says promotions will likely be more fair because they'll be based on how well employees have performed rather than solely on the strength of their connections. Employers will also be able to track how many women and minorities they promote into senior leadership positions. Goldman Sachs¬†tracks how people have performed in different stages of their careers and uses that data when making¬†senior leadership¬†promotion decisions, says¬†Cooper,¬†at the¬†Human Potential Forum¬†hosted by The Economist on Wednesday.¬†This better ensures promotions are based on achievement, drive, and whether you're right for the job rather than¬†how popular you are with your colleagues. This process may be especially helpful in the finance sector where there is a heavy emphasis on networking. While Cooper believes that data is crucial in today's¬†recruitment and employee-retention process, she says that at the end of the day, hiring managers also need to trust their instincts.¬† "Data will inform your decisions, but human capital decisions always comes down to a judgement call," she says.¬†"Corporate America is all about how human beings interact with other human beings." Cooper was named one of the most powerful women in New York this year by Crains New York. She is currently one of four women in the firm's executive committee.
REUTERS/Jim YoungBen Bernanke smiles after being sworn in as the 14th Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board during a ceremony in Washington, February 6, 2006. The Federal Reserve shocked markets this afternoon by announcing it would not taper its longstanding asset purchasing program. Most analysts suspected the central bank would institute the taper (even a modest, "lite" one), so Chairman Ben Bernanke had some explaining to do at his press conference. The major takeaway so far: This is one dovish Ben Bernanke. "As today's decision underscores, asset purchases are not on a preset course," Bernanke said. That kind of language gives the Fed more wiggle room in terms of monetary policy. Originally, the Fed wanted to see 7% unemployment before adjusting its third round of quantitative easing. Now, that guideline has been scrapped, allowing for more potential accommodation in the future. In fact, the FOMC may not even decide to raise the federal funds rate ‚Äî currently at the zero lower bound¬†‚Äî¬†until the unemployment rate is "considerably below" the 6.5%¬†threshold. The chairman made sure to stress it was a "threshold," not a trigger. It may seem like an inconsequential difference, but not in central banking. Upcoming fiscal headwinds played a part in the FOMC's decision, Bernanke said. The government will soon (once again) decide whether or not to raise the debt limit, which has the potential to rile markets.
APJack Abramoff is a former lobbyist who pleaded guilty to corruption. He did not serve time with Michael Santos.I served 26 years in federal prisons of every security level. During that time, I made efforts to learn as much as possible from the men around me. Besides wanting to understand more about adjustment patterns and preparations for the future, I also had an interest in understanding more about the influences that led offenders into the criminal justice system. I learned a great deal from listening to the complexities that brought former business leaders to prison. Although many white-collar offenders set out to engage in deliberate frauds with the singular goal of self-enrichment, I spoke with countless men who served time for crimes like mail fraud, wire fraud, or securities fraud who did not consider themselves criminals at all. Many of them told plausible stories about making business decisions without any concept that they could eventually become targets of criminal investigations. Since their decisions did not begin with criminal intent, the prisoners did not believe that authorities would ever perceive them as criminals. From their perspective, they were members of the community in good standing and lived in accordance with the principles of good citizenship. I wanted to learn as much as possible from them. John was a good example. He launched an Internet technology company from his living room. Within a few months, he had signed up several customers and had an impressive book of business. Johnís polished sales presentations led to rapid growth, making his company attractive to the investment community. In the short span of three years, John went from superstar sales leader to CEO of a publicly traded technology company. But the skill set of persuading clients to sign a purchase order differed from the skill set necessary for good corporate governance. Wall Street analysts consistently expected Johnís company to exceed revenue growth targets. The pressures became overwhelming. When he learned that his company was about to miss quarterly revenue targets, John quickly began to calculate the fallout. He expected the companyís share price would drop 30 to 40 percent in an instant. That drop would devastate his workforce, as all employees had received equity or stock options as a component of their compensation. Johnís CFO offered a suggestion. They could barter services with one of his companyís allies that had similar problems. Both companies were publicly traded and they shared a need to book additional ìrevenuesî during the quarter to meet Wall Street expectations. John told me that he asked his CFO whether bartering revenues was legal. The CFO told John that securities laws permitted the bartering of revenues so long as the financial filings reflected the true nature of the transaction. When he asked the CFO what the downside would be if he were to authorize the bartering transaction, the CFO told John that the company would likely face a civil penalty. Several years passed before authorities became aware of the deception. Then FBI agents showed their badges and began questioning John. He denied involvement, exacerbating his troubles. Rather than accepting that he had actually committed a crime by certifying financial statements that he knew to be false, he lied to authorities upon the initial investigation. Then he lied to the lawyers whom he had retained to defend him. Never having been accused of criminal behavior in the past, John clung to delusions that he could make the ultimate sale and persuade authorities to believe that he had acted out of ignorance rather than out of intent to deceive. In the end, that strategy failed, leading to Johnís five-year sentence for securities fraud. John is but one example of how ignorance of the criminal justice system leads many business leaders inside. Many begin with the best of intentions, but their decisions violate laws. In Johnís case, he told me that he willingly signed financial statements even though he knew those filings did not disclose the true nature of his companyís revenue growth. At the time, he said that it was wrong. But he wanted to believe that his actions constituted a civil matter rather a crime. Further, he said that he could justify his decision because there wasnít any motivation for self-enrichment and there wouldnít be any shareholder loss in the noncash transaction. John said that he only wanted to protect the company he loved and the employees who worked with him. Further, Johnís CFO convinced him that authorities would never discover the ruse. In the ìunlikelyî event that anyone found out, John believed the company would simply have to pay a fine. Like many business leaders, John was ignorant of possible criminal sanctions attached to business decisions. But a lack of criminal intent would not excuse criminal behavior. John was wrong to delude himself. As the CEO of a publicly traded corporation, he shouldíve known that certifying financial statements containing inaccurate information would place him in jeopardy of a criminal prosecution. During the decades I served, I met scores of business leaders who operated with a willful blindness that did not serve them well in the end. Iíve written extensively to help individuals understand what I learned from them. For starters, business leaders should make a better effort to understand the implications of their decisions. Michael Santos spent more than 25 years in prison after being convicted of trafficking cocaine at the age of 23. He wrote several books while he was there. His latest book, "Earning Freedom: Conquering A 45-Year Prison Term," can be purchased here.
Wikimedia CommonsThe Federal Reserve's FOMC statement is out, and it's a shocker! The Fed is NOT TAPERING its massive $85 billion large-scale asset purchase program. Almost no one expected this. The Dow went from -40 to +63 in the blink of an eye. And as Bernanke began the Q&amp;A of his press conference, the Dow surged +178 to an all-time high of 15,708! Also, the S&amp;P 500 is at 1,728, an all-time record high. The U.S. dollar tanked, and gold spiked. The 10-year Treasury note yield tanked to 2.76% from around 2.86% before the announcement. Here's the market action charted via Bloomberg's Michael McDonough: @M_McDonough
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueFederal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke, American hero.The Federal Reserve's statement on why it's not tapering Quantative Easing round III notes that "fiscal policy is restraining economic growth." But Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke just went a step beyond that in his oral remarks, noting that fiscal policy is "restraining growth and a source of downside risk." In other words: Sen. Ted Cruz (R) and the Heritage Foundation are trying to get Congress to shut down the government or breach the debt limit. If that happens, it will be very bad for the economy. The Fed needs to keep buying lots of bonds to offset the mischief they might make. The story of the last five years continues: Fiscal policymakers screw everything up, and the monetary policy authority is the only thing that works. For a guy who's basically been singlehandedly been keeping the U.S. out of recession, people sure give Ben Bernanke a lot of crap.
Boom. Gold is surging after the Fed declines to "Taper" the pace of Quantitative Easing. Kitco
REUTERS/Gary CameronFederal Reserve Chairman Ben BernankeThe Federal Reserve's September FOMC statement is out. The Federal Reserve decided to refrain from tapering quantitative easing this month, saying it wanted to see more evidence of the economic growth process before beginning a reduction in bond buying. The FOMC said tightening of financial conditions from rising rates could slow growth, and reminded everyone that "asset purchases are not on a preset course." Right now, stocks, bonds, and gold are surging, and the dollar is tanking. The S&amp;P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average have both just been propelled to all-time highs, up around 1% on the day each. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is at 2.77%, 8 basis points lower from yesterday's close. The FOMC also released updated economic projections. The Fed is now projecting a change in 2013 real GDP between 1.8% and 2.4%, down from 2.0% to 2.6% in June.¬†For 2014, the Fed is now predicting GDP growth of 2.2% to 3.3%, down from 3.3% to 3.6% in June. Below is the full text of the statement: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in July suggests that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate pace. Some indicators of labor market conditions have shown further improvement in recent months, but the unemployment rate remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector has been strengthening, but mortgage rates have risen further and fiscal policy is restraining economic growth. Apart from fluctuations due to changes in energy prices, inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will pick up from its recent pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished, on net, since last fall, but the tightening of financial conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow the pace of improvement in the economy and labor market. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, but it anticipates that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. Taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment, the Committee sees the improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions since it began its asset purchase program a year ago as consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy. However, the Committee decided to await more evidence that progress will be sustained before adjusting the pace of its purchases. Accordingly, the Committee decided to continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. In judging when to moderate the pace of asset purchases, the Committee will, at its coming meetings, assess whether incoming information continues to support the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective. Asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's economic outlook as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; James Bullard; Charles L. Evans; Jerome H. Powell; Eric S. Rosengren; Jeremy C. Stein; Daniel K. Tarullo; and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against the action was Esther L. George, who was concerned that the continued high level of monetary accommodation increased the risks of future economic and financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in long-term inflation expectations. Click here to refresh for the latest updates ¬ª --------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Heads up! We are minutes away from the release of the most-anticipated FOMC statement of the year, due out at 2 PM ET. At 2:30, Fed chairman Ben Bernanke will hold a press conference and Q&amp;A with reporters. Click here for the ultimate preview ¬ª The Federal Reserve has been buying $85 billion a month of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities since introducing its third round of quantitative easing (QE3) exactly a year ago, at the conclusion of the FOMC's September 2012 policy meeting. Wall Street expects the FOMC to elect to make the first move toward "tapering" QE3 today with the announcement of a reduction in bond-buying of $10 billion a month, bringing total monthly purchases to $75 billion. Given the possible negative implications of a tapering for the bond market, the Fed is also expected to announce a change to its "forward guidance" thresholds, which dictate how long the Fed's other policy stimulus tool, the federal funds rate, will remain pinned near zero. The Fed has said it won't consider raising interest rates until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5% (from the current 7.3% rate). At today's meeting, it could lower that unemployment rate threshold, suggesting rates will stay lower for longer ‚Äì likely a positive development for markets. The Fed will also be releasing updated economic forecasts of FOMC members for 2014-2015, as well as the first forecasts for 2016. We are blogging the press conference LIVE here ¬ª
REUTERS/Frank PolichThe FOMC has just released its macroeconomic projections. The Fed's projection range for 2013 real GDP is 1.8% to 2.4%, down from 2.0% to 2.6% in June. For 2014, the Fed is predicting GDP growth of 2.2% to 3.3%, down from 3.3% to 3.6% in June. The Fed believes the unemployment rate for 2013 will be 6.9% to 7.3%, better slightly from the June prediction of 6.9% to 7.5%. For 2016, the Fed is predicting an unemployment rate of 5.2% to 6%. In addition, the Fed stunned market watchers by announcing there will be no taper for the time being. And here you can see where the Fed will target the federal funds rate going forward (it is currently at 0%-0.25%). In 2016, the Fed will target a rate closer to 2% although there's no clear consensus. Federal Reserve More charts: Federal Reserve
AppleLike other Apple shareholders, I was disappointed and nervous to hear that Apple's new cheap iPhone--the iPhone 5C--would not, in fact, be cheap, but would instead cost just a hundred dollars or so less than the top-of-the-line one. iPhones are a platform, and in the platform business, market share is important. Third-party developers want to build applications and services that can be sold to the largest possible number of users. So a platform with dominant market share has an inherent competitive advantage over niche platforms. And by clinging to its massive profit margins and "premium" positioning, Apple has been sacrificing gobs of market share. Apple's cheap iPhone was supposed to change all that. The cheap iPhone was supposed to allow Apple to compete aggressively in price-conscious emerging markets and other places in which the top-of-the-line iPhone is just too expensive. The cheap iPhone might reduce Apple's profit margin, the theory went, but it would also increase the company's market share. And the increased market share of the iPhone platform would strengthen Apple's value as a platform and, therefore, increase its competitive strength over the long haul. But then Apple announced the price of the new cheap iPhone. And it wasn't, in fact, cheap.† So I and other Apple shareholders feared that the company had blown it and that it would cling to its huge profit margins while its market share collapsed. † But I have heard some things in recent days that make me less worried. Most of what I have heard is second- or even third-hand. But it is still encouraging. Because it makes sense. And the folks at Apple are nothing if not sensible and smart. First, the new iPhones have gotten excellent reviews. And the new fingerprint sensor could unlock a huge new opportunity in which Apple is the "authenticator" for billions of mobile payments and other applications. Second, I have heard that, despite announcing a price for its new "cheap" iPhone that was too expensive ($500+), Apple actually isn't that serious about maintaining this price. For example, Apple is already allowing Walmart and others to discount the price. And it's allowing AT&amp;T, Verizon, and other carriers to provide the cheap iPhone for "free" by letting consumers pay for it in 24 monthly installments, as part of their regular phone bills. More importantly, I have heard that Apple views the price of the cheap iPhone as just a starting price and will cut it rapidly. This is one of the benefits of forking the product line and offering a top-of-the-line iPhone (the 5S) and a cheap iPhone (the 5C). Apple can cut the heck out of the price of the cheap phone to drive sales while also protecting its brand and margin by holding the line on the expensive one. Lastly, and most importantly, I have heard that Apple may sell the cheap iPhone for different prices in different countries. This is very good news. If Apple can get millions of Americans to pay $500+ for the new phone (through their carrier subsidies) and sell the same phone for, say, $250 in China, then Apple can have its cake and eat it, too. It can preserve its massive profit margin in rich countries but still drive market share gains in poorer countries.† And then there is Apple's brilliant iPhone marketing plan, which I heard about this morning. Apple is apparently making it necessary for you to†stand in line for at least 24 hours if you want to buy the new iPhone 5S†on the first day (tomorrow). This will create massive lines at Apple Stores, which will create an impression of insane demand. Yes, this scarcity is an old ploy, and, yes, it is probably less a ploy than the result of Apple not being able to make enough iPhone 5Ss to meet initial demand, but it will have the same effect. So, as an Apple shareholder, I am more encouraged about the prospects for the new iPhones than I was a couple of weeks back.
APThe White House has told federal agencies to prepare for a partial government shutdown on Oct. 1, as time continues to run out on a Congressional deal with no clear end in sight. The Office of Management and Budget sent a memo to agency heads on Tuesday urging them to be "prepared for the possibility of a lapse."¬† "The Administration does not want a lapse in appropriations to occur," OMB Director Sylvia Burwell wrote in the memo. "There is enough time for Congress to prevent a lapse in appropriations, and the Administration is willing to work with Congress." The memo comes as the possibility of a government shutdown has increased over the past few days. On Tuesday, Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere put the odds of a shutdown at 25%, up from 10% a month ago.¬† Chris Krueger, a Washington analyst at Guggenheim Securities, raised the odds of a shutdown to 40% on Wednesday. And his 60% odds on the other side were based on "blind faith, because there is little to no evidence to suggest that the House, Senate, and White House can agree to a stopgap measure in time." House Speaker John Boehner announced Wednesday that the House will look to pass a continuing-resolution bill that keeps funding at current sequestration levels and strips funding for the Affordable Care Act.¬†It will go to the Senate,¬†where it will be dead on arrival. And President Barack Obama would not sign the bill into law. Meanwhile, Obama made an impassioned plea before the Business Roundtable in Washington on Wednesday, where he urged some of the nation's top corporate executives to implore Republicans to avoid brinksmanship on a shutdown and over the debt ceiling. "It is going to be important for all of you I think over the next several weeks to understand what‚Äôs at stake and to make sure that you are using your influence in whatever way you can to get back to what used to be called regular order around here," Obama said,  "Doing things in a way that reflect the genuine, messy negotiations of democracy but do not promise apocalypse every three months. And I think this is the time for us to say once and for all we can't afford these kinds of plays." The full OMB shutdown memo is embedded below: White House government shutdown memo 
Since Republicans in Congress seem intent on flirting (again) with hitting the debt ceiling, the Joint Economic Committee's Democratic staff is out with a report reminding us that doing so is a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad idea. Here's what happens when you lead the financial markets to think the U.S. government might fail to pay its obligations: Joint Economic Committee Democratic staff People arguing about economic policy talk a lot about "uncertainty," and usually they're B.S.ing. But the debt ceiling is one of the few topics where uncertainty is really the big deal. When the government risks creating a payment crisis, people start to wonder whether they're going to get their Social Security checks or their paychecks or their bond interest. And they wonder what broader effects a payment crisis may have on the economy. All that causes people to stop spending and prepare for crisis. It slows down the economy. And it makes us look stupid, as a country. We shouldn't do it.
U.S. oil production surged to 7.7 million barrels a day last week, according to the EIA. It's the most in 24 years:¬†EIA Here's what it looks like zoomed in showing it keeps going straight vertical. EIA And the domestic shale boom continues to reduce U.S. exposure to the overseas oil market. Here's what the latest imports data looks like ‚Äî at 9.5 million barrels a day, it's the lowest level since at least 1992: EIA
REUTERS/Allen FredricksonThe latest batch of housing data has been disappointing, as home buyers have got anxious about the rise in mortgage rates.¬† "Housing starts began to level off early in the year; mortgage applications have been weak since early May; and while existing home sales have continued to rise, new home sales plunged in July," writes Bank of America's Ethan Harris. Let's take a quick look at some of the latest numbers. The 30-year fixed mortgage stood at 4.57% according to the latest Freddie Mac survey. While this is more affordable than the historical average, home buyers are still getting used to the idea that mortgage rates aren't at record lows anymore. After running up for four straight months, homebuilder confidence held steady at 58 in May. NAHB chairman Rick Johnson pointed out that homebuilders were reporting "hesitancy on the part of buyers due to the sharp increase in interest rates." What's more homebuilder confidence, which is typically considered a good leading indicator for housing starts, has been decoupling from the latter. Housing starts missed expectations rising just 0.9%, while permits fell 3.8%. It is important to point out that today's number was largely impacted by a highly volatile multi-family sector, single-family starts posted an "encouraging gain," according to Paul Diggle at Capital Economics. But the overall trend in housing starts has been well shy of what homebuilder sentiment would lead one to expect. Capital Economics July new home sales data also disappointed markets, coming in at an annualized rate of 394,000, and median price for new homes fell to $257,200, the lowest level since January. And the pace of home price growth has slowed too according to the latest Case-Shiller data. Economists have for some time said they expect home prices to slow, largely because the pace is unsustainable, because it's getting harder for investors to find bargains and because inventory has bottomed. How will this factor into a decision on the taper? The taper refers to the Fed's decision to slow its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program, that could be announced today. Bank of America expects the Fed to delay the taper till December. David Mericle of Goldman Sachs is of the view that the rise in mortgage rates is just one of the reasons that housing data has disappointed markets, but that the slowdown makes the case for a "soft taper." Using a proprietary model to gauge the impact of rising mortgage rates on housing, Mericle finds two key things: "First, the rise in mortgage rates can explain some but not all of the slowdown in the housing data. Second, the largest impulse from the rise in mortgage rates, especially on housing starts, will probably not appear until the August data. "We conclude by estimating the impact of the recent rise in mortgage rates on GDP growth. We expect a 15-20bp growth drag through residential investment over the next year as a result of the negative impulse to starts and home sales (the latter contribute broker and transaction fees). We also expect a 5-10bp growth drag through consumption as a result of a smaller wealth effect from the reduced impulse to house price appreciation... "Despite the negative impulse from higher mortgage rates, we still expect housing to make a positive contribution to growth overall. ‚Ä¶Nevertheless, the recent slowdown in the housing sector and the likely further weakness suggested by our model add to the case for a soft taper tilted toward reducing Treasury rather than MBS purchases." That being said, the data are grounds for the Fed to announce a soft taper. "While we still expect housing to be a positive contributor to growth overall, the near-term impact of rising mortgage rates is another reason why the FOMC is likely to lean toward a soft taper tilted toward reducing Treasury rather than MBS purchases," writes Mericle. Gloom and doom economist Nouriel Roubini thinks housing data is part of the reason a taper may be delayed: Contrary to market consensus the Fed should not and may not start tapering today as recent macro &amp; housing data are weak. At most taper-lite It appears that recent housing data has been disappointing enough for the Fed to delay the taper, or announce a soft taper at most.
Former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Donald Kohn, considered the dark horse candidate to replace current Fed chairman Ben Bernanke when Bernanke's term expires in January, is surging on betting website Paddy Power this morning. BNP Paribas economist Julia Coronado doesn't think there's much to all the chatter about Kohn, though: On the chatter about Kohn ‚Äì the decision will be made based on political capital. Obama lost on Summers because his political [capital] is low, it would cost him dearly to get Summers into the seat, and he needs as much as he can get for the upcoming budget fight. He lost on Summers, the campaign was as much pro-Yellen as it was anti-Summers; why spend more capital on this fight? Are you really going to go with passing over the most qualified and only female candidate yet again? [Senior Advisor Valerie] Jarrett and [White House Chief of Staff Denis] McDonough won't let him be that politically stupid. Add to that the fact that Don doesn't really want the job and Janet really does. This chatter is coming from market types that don't know anything. The reports citing White House sources all have said she is the strong front runner. "I think people are bored waiting for the decision this afternoon," says Coronado.¬†
In July, President Obama suggested he was considering three candidates to replace Ben Bernanke when the current chairman of the Federal Reserve's term expires in January: former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, current Fed vice chairwoman Janet Yellen, and former Fed vice chairman Donald Kohn. Summers was considered the frontrunner, but he withdrew his name from the race on Sunday after Democratic senators aligned against him. Yellen is now tipped to be the frontrunner, and is widely considered to be the best candidate, given her experience and current position. Kohn is the dark horse. However, his odds are surging on betting website Paddy Power today. Earlier this morning, Janet Yellen had 1/7 odds, but her chances have since decreased to 10/11. Meanwhile, Kohn is now at even odds to be next Fed chair, up from 11/2 odds earlier this morning, according to Lorcan Roche Kelly, who has been keeping score on Twitter. This may not mean much, and there's no real sense of how much betting activity is even behind these numbers, but it's something that is causing a bit of a buzz nonetheless. BNP Paribas economist Julia Coronado, on the other hand, says all of the Kohn "chatter is coming from market types that don't know anything." Paddy Power
The aspirational bulge bracket firm that is best known for issuing and trading $200 million or thereabouts-sized HY bonds, hiring all recently terminated UBS bankers, and writing highly confident letters for Carl Icahn, also happens to be a very useful early indicator of the general state of the banking industry. Since it is one of the very few original Investment Banks left that did not convert into a holding company, and shift its calendar to a December 31 year end (everyone remembers that stub month in 2008 when every bank took epic write downs, padded their credit reserves for the next 5 years, and... effectively deleted it by moving from a November 30 to a December 31 calendar), Jefferies also provides a glimpse into general trading dynamics (and revenues) one month early. Unfortunately, if the Jefferies quarterly data released yesterday are any indication of what banks are set to report, then run far away. The chart below summarizes what can only be described as an epic collapse in Jefferies' fixed-income trading revenue, which imploded by an unprecedented 88% Y/Y, and 84.5% from later quarter, to $33.1 million - the lowest since the same quarter in 2011 when the European collapse dragged everyone down, and sent Jefferies stock into the single digits over concerns about its European exposure, forcing Dick Handler to release a CUSIP by CUSIP disclosure of its European bond holdings.  Adding insult to injury, Equity trading also dropped 28% Y/Y, however at least Investment Banking revenue (in a quarter in which a blind monkey could underwrite a B2/B- Dividend recap PIK Toggle) offset these unprecedented losses somewhat by rising 23% to $319.3 million. End result: profit crashed from $70.2MM in 2012 to just $11.7MM in the current year. Naturally, the collapse in revenue had an impact on bonus provisioning as comp and benefits expense dropped 33% to $293.8 million. So what happened? It is unclear: here is what CEO Dick Handler had to say via WSJ:† "With the significant change in expectations regarding interest rates, we experienced a very challenging summer in our fixed-income businesses," said Jefferies and Leucadia Chief Executive Richard Handler in a statement. Still, he said that, since Labor Day, client flows have been stronger and fixed-income performance has "markedly improved to more normal levels." Mr. Handler attributed the decline in fixed-income revenue to the rising-rate environment, spread widening, redemptions experienced by its client base which "heavily muted trading," and related mark-to-market write downs. The last bolded sentence is what one would associated with a market plunging into a bear market... not trading at its all time highs. Which begs the question: just how, if at all, are banks hedged or providioned for an increase in volatility and/or rates from these levels, if a mere 4% blimp in equity markets caused Jefferies to nearly write-down it entire bond-trading revenue for the quarter? And now that Jefferies is in the record books, just how bad with bond trading results for the rest of the big banks be? We should know in about 4 weeks.
Arnulfo Franco/APYesterday hundreds of investors got together for the last day of the Value Investing Congress in New York City, an elite conference for investors who love to dig deep into equities. It being the last day, attendees also watched one of their super smart peers win $50,000 for their investing idea. We've got the presentation ‚Äî on chemicals company Ashland Inc. ‚Äî in full for you right here. This was a part of the Value Investing Challenge ‚Äî a contest held by the VIC, along with partner SumZero. It was a pretty simple competition ‚Äî the best investing idea wins. The panel of judges was stacked with industry pros, and the top two of the three finalists presented at the conference. Hundreds of investors submitted ideas, but it was Daniel Lawrence, managing partner and founder of Elmrox Investment Group, who took home the gold. A few things about Lawrence: He's a 32 year-old New Yorker, born and raised in the Bronx and Yonkers. His¬† grandfather drove a Frito-Lay truck, and when he was a kid, he remembers watching CNBC with his grandfather, waiting for the Pepsi ticker to show up (Frito-Lay is a division of PepsiCo). That's probably when the seed was planted, but Lawrence had a ways to go first. He won a scholarship to go to Iona Prep and from there went on to be the first person in his family to go away to college (University of Virgina ‚Äî Paul Tudor Jones, an alumnus who is famous for predicting the 1987 market crash known as "Black Monday," is, of course, an idol). At UVA, he fell in love with stock picking and contrarian ideas. He ended up at Merril Lynch for a while, but ultimately, Lawrence says, he's an entrepreneur. He had to head out on his own. That's why he started Elmrox. Now he's expecting his first child (a son ... any day now), and spends his free time working with Services for the Underserved, a charity that helps with housing and other support for homeless veterans, the mentally and physically disabled, those with HIV, and others. He also now has $50,000 extra dollars. Don't forget that, too.
APRepublicans have officially announced their plans on the coming budget battles over bills to keep the government funded and raise the debt ceiling.¬† House Speaker John Boehner said in a press conference that the House will pass a continuing-resolution bill Friday that keeps spending at sequestration levels and strips funding for the Affordable Care Act, giving into demands from the conservative wing of the caucus. It will go to the Senate, where it will be dead on arrival. Rep. John Fleming (R-La.) told reporters¬†Wednesday that if the Senate kicks back the continuing-resolution bill, the back up plan is to pass a "clean" continuing-resolution and then trade a year's delay in Obamacare for a a one-year hike in the debt ceiling. Boehner said that a vote on the debt ceiling could come as "soon as next week." The debt ceiling legislation will also include such items as instructions for¬†tax reform and urging the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, according to Politico. Though Boehner said there should be "no conversation" about shutting the government down, the reaction from the other side was swift. White House senior adviser Dan Pfeiffer tweeted¬†that the 'Hastert Rule' should be renamed the 'the Cruz Rule,' referring to the demands of the "defund Obamacare" movement that has been led by Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas.). Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid lamented in a floor speech that "bipartisanship is a thing of the past." But with the continuing-resolution bill, at least, GOP leadership is bringing "fantasy" into reality, and shifting the onus onto Cruz and Senate Republicans.  Animosity toward Cruz has been building up in the House, which feels that he's putting pressure on them but doesn't have a plan to pass a continuing-resolution with defunding in the Senate. By moving pressure to the Senate, they will show that a bill to defund Obamacare won't pass. It's not likely, either, that the Senate will pass ‚Äî or President Barack Obama will sign ‚Äî a debt-ceiling increase that includes a delay in Obamacare. "That would be a nice outcome," one senior GOP aide said pessimistically.
REUTERS/Christian CharisiusEconomists expect the Federal Reserve to announce that it is be tapering, or gradually reducing, it's monthly purchases of $85 billion worth Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds. In other words, it will continue to buy these bonds, but at a slower pace. However, some people trading the markets are confusing "tapering" with "tightening," the latter being the Fed's effort to actively raise interest rates. As such, Fed-watchers across Wall Street expect the Fed to reiterate very clearly that tapering is not tightening. From some economists' research notes: Should tapering accidentally cause rates to surge, the Fed's got heavy-caliber ammo for that. "True, Fed officials have used QE in the past to signal the Fed‚Äôs willingness to keep policy accommodative for a considerable period," said Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart. "But that was then. Now they can signal the intent to keep policy accommodative‚Äîthe forward guidance so much in vogue among central bankers‚Äîby adjusting their threshold on unemployment or introducing a lower bound on inflation. With this heavy-caliber ammunition in reserve in the event yields back up uncomfortably later in the year, they can put QE on the road to retirement. For the incumbents at the Fed, starting now puts a body in motion that will stay in motion for the next leader." Currently, the Fed's "forward guidance" consists of an unemployment rate threshold of 6.5% and an inflation rate threshold of 2.5% to help guide monetary policy. In other words, as long as unemployment stays high and prices remain low, the Fed will continue to do what it can to keep rates low.
REUTERS/Jason ReedU.S.Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke takes questions during a news conference following the Fed's two-day policy meeting at the Federal Reserve in Washington, June 19, 2013.Today's Federal Reserve decision is momentous for a number of reasons. Foremost among them: the Fed's monetary policymaking body, the FOMC, is widely expected to announce the first reduction in the pace of monthly bond purchases under the open-ended quantitative easing (QE) program it introduced exactly a year ago. In a broader sense, this first "tapering" of QE represents the beginning of a shift away from the easy-money policies that have dominated the monetary policy landscape over the last five years coming out of the financial crisis and recession. There is some debate over how big of a reduction in bond purchases the Fed will make, but the consensus is that the central bank will elect to taper by $10 billion, bringing total monthly purchases down to $75 billion. If the taper is bigger or smaller, markets could move. But there are a lot of other outcomes from today's announcement that could move markets as well, as Citi currency strategist Steven Englander reminds clients in a note this morning (emphasis added): Today‚Äôs FOMC carries volatility risk, not because the policy decision is likely to signal a dramatic surprise but because there are an unusual number of dimensions along which FOMC can surprise, and whose implications will be debated. This includes timing and magnitude of tapering, 2014-15 forecast changes, 2016 first forecast, shift in the threshold for unemployment, a potential inflation threshold, among others. So the order of the headlines may determine extreme volatility until markets settle down. We continue to think that economic data trump tapering and that the tapering timetable trumps forward guidance. It is most likely that a month from now the economic data flow will be viewed as much more significant than the forward guidance. This is eminently illustrated by the GBP and gilt reaction to UK forward guidance. For the record, it looks as if expectations have converged to 1) September tapering USD10-15bn; 2) end by middle of 2014; 3) some downward revision to 2013-15 forecasts, but 2016 not to far from full employment; 4) a low trajectory of policy rate increase after mid 2015 (although they may view the projected start as a forward guidance tool); 5) some inflation threshold; 6) downward revision to the unemployment rate threshold possible but up in the air. We view 1) and 2) as more important than 3)-6) in determining how markets trade. If they hit expectations on 1) and 2), do not surprise too much on 3) or 4), but do nothing on 5) or 6) ‚Äì that would be viewed as slightly hawkish. In FX the stress point is still the weak end of EM, followed by AUD and NZD in G10, followed by JPY. The policy debate is about the pace and size of liquidity unwinding, and vulnerable currencies will bask in a dovish glow, and get hammered on perceived Fed hawkishness. Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale currency strategist Sebastien Galy is on a similar wavelength, pointing out that algos will have to digest all of this news as well. "On the Fed decision, algos will not have a good day and prices likely widen quite a bit in anticipation of this high frequency mess," says Galy. "Text-reading algos will have to deal with 1. Decision on [Treasuries] 2. Decision on [mortgage-backed securities] 3. New Fed projection 2016 4. A 'Tone' that is a sequence of text that differs from the previous release. A few second or minutes into what will likely be a decision as expected, the real positioning will start. Consensus is for [Treasuries] tapering, a weaker growth profile, though our economists believe a more bullish 2016 Fed view." The big announcement is out at 2 PM ET, and Fed chairman Ben Bernanke will follow it up with a press conference and Q&amp;A with reporters at 2:30. Click here for the ultimate preview ¬ª
Julia La Roche for Business Insider On the fifth anniversary of the fall of Lehman Brothers, hundreds of the firm's former traders and bankers met up at B.B. King's in Times Square for a reunion. The event, which was called "LEH Rocks On," wasn't about commemorating the demise of the once-powerful Wall Street bank.†Instead, it was about bringing together old colleagues and friends to listen to Lehman alumni bands and raise funds for the 9/11 Memorial Fund Foundation.† One thing that was apparent last night is that there remains a great deal of camaraderie amongst the Lehman alums. †What's more, many of them have kept each other in their professional networks across Wall Street. †† "It was interesting because Lehman people scattered to different banks and hedge funds, so you have a friend at almost every institution. They always take your call. It's a very powerful network," a former Lehman employee told us. † Another former employee added that when people went to Lehman back then they intended to stay there for a long time. †Ironically, when they all had to go their separate ways they left with a great business network, he explained. † "It would not have been the way I drew it up, but I have a lot of great business contacts," he told us.† One Lehman alum who was absent last night was the ex-CEO, Dick Fuld. †No one expected him to show up, though. † "I doubt he makes too many public appearances," one former Lehman employee told us.† In case you missed the show, we have included highlights in the slides that follow. †Now let's meet the Lehman alumni bands.†
U.S. Treasuries have been on a slow grind lower for most of the morning, but the selling has really started to accelerate on heavy volume in the last few minutes. Right now, 10-year Treasury futrues are down 0.3%. The yield on the 10-year note is at 2.89%, 5 basis points higher from yesterday's close. Republicans have just released their demands in the ongoing fight over raising the debt ceiling. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor says the House will consider the debt-limit bill next week, which will include a delay in funding Obamacare. Markets could be getting spooked over the resulting political tensions likely to arise in Washington, but it's unclear whether that is actually driving the move. All of this comes before the Federal Reserve's big FOMC announcement at 2 PM ET. The Wall Street consensus is that the Fed will announce the first reduction in the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under the quantitative easing program it introduced in September 2012. The Fed is expected to taper monthly purchases to $75 billion from the current rate of $85 billion. "Apparently some talk of a $20 billion taper ‚Äì just wishful thinking I¬†bet," says Tom Di Galoma, managing director at ED &amp; F Man Capital. "My guess is that there is some last minute hedging and¬†rate-locking in front of the FOMC decision." The chart below shows the sharp downward move in Treasury futures. Thinkorswim
1) The Syria problem has morphed from a military action into a diplomatic initiative. The risk of military action and the unintended consequences from it seem to be diminishing. President Obama and President Putin each had a problem. They decided to make their lemons into lemonade and found a way to accommodate each other. The more time passes and the more negotiations progress, the less likely it is that there will be a US military attack on Syria. However, Syria's internal civil war will continue to rage. The Middle East will remain an incendiary place. The antagonism between Sunni and Shia is not likely to wane. Other Middle Eastern hot spots could flare up. Geopolitical risk premia are high and will remain high, but it seems to us that they have peaked, at least for a while. Meanwhile, oil production shortfalls in Libya, Syria, and other countries are being made up for by increased production in Saudi Arabia. Some think the Saudis are at peak capacity as they stabilize oil markets and obtain revenue used to support their allies in Egypt and elsewhere. 2) Markets are adjusting to the fact that Larry Summers has withdrawn his name from consideration as Fed Chairman appointee. Most market agents would prefer that Janet Yellen succeed Ben Bernanke as Fed Chair. Though there are other names being circulated, and this issue will not be resolved until the President makes the announcement, in any case, the clock will run and the issue will be settled. Therefore, the fundamental questions of what the Fed's policy will be and who will make the policy are on a course toward resolution, and so markets are looking forward. It is uncertainty that causes risk premia to rise, and resolution lets them fall.¬† We expect more clarity after this afternoon‚Äôs post-meeting press conference with Ben Bernanke. Whether it revolves around issues in geopolitics, Fed policy, or political appointments, the uncertainty period is the worst. Markets know how to handle good or bad news. The biggest fear of markets is no news. With respect to the Fed, we are moving from no news to resolution, regardless of outcome. That is an improvement for markets. Ahead of us in Congress remain the sequester fight, the federal budget battle, a continuing resolution, and the ongoing deficit debate. The contest is likely to get ugly and go to the eleventh hour on each item. There will likely be a repeating pattern of temporary resolution alternating with deferral of serious decision-making. That is the nature of our political system, whether we like it or not. There is a sufficient number of congressional suicide bombers who are willing to blow up the majority of the Republican caucus and House of Representatives in order to contest funding for ObamaCare. This is creating a problem for the leadership of the House and may ultimately result in a change of Speaker if John Boehner cannot control his coalition. Whether that issue will be resolved or not remains to be seen. One thing we know about the federal deficit is that it peaked at $1.4 trillion per year run rate. It has been shrinking ever since. The current estimate has the deficit run rate at about $400 billion by the end of the year. The deficit has shrunk by about $1 trillion while political consternation has continued to simmer. The shrinking deficit and the structure of net new issuance of Treasury debt mean that the Fed can easily taper for the next year. It can bring its policy to nearly neutral. In so doing it will still assist the shrinking deficit by further reducing financial pressure. The United States can easily finance 3% of its GDP through the sale of US Treasury obligations to offshore entities. The global structural demand for Treasury debt exceeds the newly created supply, and that will allow the Fed to be neutral. We can visualize the situation a year from now. The US deficit is in the neighborhood of $300 to $400 billion or even smaller. The Fed has gone back to a neutral position. It has a huge balance sheet, approximately $4 trillion in size. It is managing that balance sheet in a gradual roll-off without any additional pressure on interest rates. That is a scenario in which, a year from now, the short-term interest rate remains very close to zero while longer-term interest rates will reflect the economic situation at that time. We think the economic outcome will be slow growth (approximately 2%) and low inflation (somewhere between 1% and 2%, depending on which index is used to measure it). Thus, current interest rates in the Treasury market are very much in line with what you would expect them to be in one year. With respect to tax-free interest rates, the current yields are exceptionally high. We would characterize them as a gift to investors who are willing to look out into the future and calculate the value of a tax-free cash flow generated by a high-grade tax-free bond. As far as the stock market is concerned, the peak of urgency and risk was reached in August. As readers and clients know, we did some selling and raised some cash. As the Syria crisis has eased, the Fed outcome has become clearer, and the deficit numbers have continued to shrink, we have been redeploying that cash. At this point we are nearly fully invested. We believe the stock market will end the year higher than its present level. We see the outlook for slow growth and low inflation as being very conducive to profitable stock market investing using exchange-traded funds.
Screengrab Liang Wenyong, the Communist party secretary of Gushanzi town in the northeastern province of Hebei, has been fired after a secret video of him criticizing the average Chinese citizen while eating an expensive lobster meal went viral, Reuters reports. One copy of the nearly five minute long video is embedded below. According to China Radio International, at the end of video Liang says, "[Chinese citizens] hold rice bowls and eat pork provided by you, but they still curse your mother. Therefore, the common people, the shameless, do not deserve your attention." Scrolling text in the video says that the lavish-seafood meal included luxury Wuliangye liquor and Zhonghua cigarettes, and cost up to 10,000 yuan ($1,600).   It's unclear who made the video, but secretly filmed footage of Chinese officials has been used in blackmail cases before, most notoriously in the case of Lei Zhengfu, a Chongqing party boss fired after his sex tape leaked (for more background on that case, check out this great article at Caixin). Liang's swift removal from power perhaps shows how serious President Xi Jinping's pledge to tackle corrupt officials is, and the spread of the video online shows exactly why China is so worried about "online rumors." 
REUTERS/ Kevin Lamarque Today is expected to be "Taper Day," when the Fed begins the process of scaling back its purchases of Treasuries and Mortgage-Backed Securities, a process it's engaged in virtually non-stop since the financial crisis. There's a nice narrative with the timing because it's right as we're getting all kinds of "5 Years After Lehman" stories. But actually looking at this as some kind of financial crisis bookend is just being too narrow. The big overarching narrative is the career of Ben Bernanke, which destiny determined would arrive at this moment. Bernanke was the perfect candidate for the job because his expertise was in The Great Depression and in unconventional tools that a central bank might employ in a crisis and when interest rates dropped to zero. He literally wrote the book on The Great Depression and he literally wrote the paper on what Japan should do to stimulate its economy over a decade before it actually did. Ben Bernanke was sent to land at this moment in history and this should be his final act.
After a brief summer rally, gold prices have begun their downward trend again and are near $1,300 level. Legendary investor Jim Rogers told us back in July that gold hadn't bottomed yet, and he still argues that it won't bottom until the gold faithfuls are washed out. For those that argue that gold money, Rogers also explains why it isn't. Produced by Business Insider Video
AppleAs an Apple shareholder, I have to say I have been encouraged by the first reviews of the new iPhones. Apple gave these iPhones to a group of carefully selected gadget hounds a week ago.¬†Apple then allowed the reviews to be published at 9pm Eastern time last night. The reviews were quite positive.¬† First, there was the near-universal hyperventilation about the fingerprint sensor that Apple put on the more expensive new iPhone. This fingerprint sensor, which allows you to unlock your phone by pressing your finger on a button instead of typing a password into the screen, could easily have been a crappy new feature that didn't work very well and that no one really wanted. But it actually sounds as though the fingerprint sensor works quickly and well. The unlocking, by itself, does not make the sensor a "game changer," as one esteemed reviewer gushed. When used to unlock the phone, the fingerprint sensor will save you at most a couple of seconds. But, more broadly, allowing you to authenticate yourself with your finger instead of with a login and password combination could reduce a lot of headaches and friction in the digital world at large. Apple is already allowing users to buy stuff through iTunes with only their fingerprints, for example--a handy improvement from having to remember and type your iTunes password. And this is presumably only the beginning. It's not hard to imagine that, a couple of years down the road, Apple will have cut deals with Amazon, eBay, and other big ecommerce companies that will allow you to buy stuff on these sites, or sign into other web sites, with the touch of your finger. And it's also not hard to imagine that you'll be able to "sign" for things in the real world (credit card receipts, for example) with your finger, pass through security and border controls with your fingerprint, start your car with your finger, and so on.¬† In short, now that we know that the fingerprint sensor works well, we can get excited about applications for this new technology that are a lot more exciting than saving a second or two when unlocking your phone. Second, it sounds like the new camera in the new iPhones is visibly better than the prior version. That's also good news. iPhone users take a lot of pictures. And no one is going to object to having those pictures look better. Everyone is also gushing about the new iPhone software (iOS7), but all recent iPhone users are going to get that software. Also, it's software -- after 12 hours with the phone, you'll forget there was ever any different software. (It's certainly encouraging that people don't hate the new software, but they've already had a few months to get used to it. So, again, there's not much news here.) I have also heard other things in recent days that make me less worried about being an Apple shareholder. First, I have heard that, despite announcing a price for its new "cheap" iPhone that was too expensive ($500+), Apple actually isn't that serious about this price. For example, Apple is already allowing Walmart and others to discount the price. And it's allowing AT&amp;T, Verizon, and other carriers to provide the phone for "free" by letting consumers pay for it in 24 monthly installments, as part of their regular phone bills. More importantly, I have heard that Apple views the price of the cheap iPhone--the 5C--as just a starting price and will cut it rapidly. This is one of the big benefits of offering a top-of-the-line iPhone (the 5S) and a cheap iPhone (the 5C). Apple can cut the heck out of the price of the cheap phone to drive sales while also protecting its brand and margin by holding the line on the expensive one. Lastly, and most importantly, I have heard that Apple may sell the cheap iPhone for different prices in different countries. This is very good news. If Apple can get millions of Americans to pay $500+ for the new phone (through their carrier subsidies) and sell the same phone for, say, $250 in China, then Apple can have its cake and eat it, too. It can preserve a lot of its massive profit margin in rich countries but still drive market share gains in poorer countries. (The latter is important, because the iPhone is a platform for third party applications and services, and maintaining a meaningful market share is important for platforms.) And then there is Apple's brilliant iPhone marketing plan, which makes it necessary for you to stand in line for at least 24 hours if you want to buy the new iPhone 5S on the first day (tomorrow). This will create massive lines at Apple Stores, which will create an impression of insane demand. Yes, this is an old ploy, and, yes, it is probably less a ploy than the result of Apple not being able to make enough iPhone 5Ss to meet initial demand, but it will have the same effect. So, overall, I'm encouraged about what I'm hearing about the new iPhones.
Lloyd Blankfein, the CEO of Goldman Sachs, was on CNBC's Squawk Box Wednesday morning to discuss the economy, the markets, and the Federal Reserve. The anchors asked Blankfein if he had a favorite candidate to be the next Chairman of the Federal Reserve. He said that he liked all of the candidates. But without specifically endorsing her, Blankfein made a strong case for current Vice Chair Janet Yellen. He specifically argued that Yellen as Fed Chair would represent continuity in leadership, which would be important for credibility. Blankfein explained that as an institution that employed forward guidance to guide monetary policy, a new Fed Chair distant from the existing Fed could represent too big a change. Currently, the Fed is employing an unemployment rate threshold of 6.5% and an inflation rate threshold of 2.5% to justify its near-zero% interest rates.
Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein is on CNBC right now talking taper and all things Federal Reserve. Thankfully, he sounds calm cool and collected. That could be because, as he told the Squawk Box crew, Fed tapering is not as big a deal as people are making it out to be. He's taking the line that the Fed does have to taper, but it's going to go with a 'taper light' policy ‚Äî cutting their quantitative easing program by $10 billion. If not, said Blankfein, the market will not like it. Not that he's changed his line on his general approval of the Fed's policy. "If I were running the economy," he told Andrew Ross Sorkin, "I would do everything I could, and this is one of the things I would do." So now what? "I spend 98% of my time on 2% of possibilities," said Blankfein "we're climbing the wall of worry. Very well positioned for the economy to keep improving. In other words I'm bullish." Okay then.
REUTERS/Mike BlakeHousing starts climbed 0.9% month-over-month (MoM) in August, to an annualized pace of 891,000.  This missed expectations for a 2.3% rise to 917,000. Meanwhile, July's number was revised down to reflect a 5.7% rise to 883,000. Building permits fell 3.8% to 918,000 in August. This missed expectations for a 0.4% decline to 950,000. July's numbers were revised up to reflect a 3.9% rise to 954,000. Bank of America analysts point out that permits typically lead housing starts by two months. We have previously mentioned that homebuilder confidence has been outpacing housing starts.
Kellogg School of ManagementArvind KrishnamurthyWhen the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting ends later today, we'll find out if the Federal Reserve will taper its large-scale asset purchase (LSAP) program, which includes the monthly purchases of $45 billion worth of Treasury bonds and $40 billion worth of mortgage backed securities (MBS). This LSAP, also known as quantitative easing (QE) has been intended to lower interest rates to stimulate the economy. Generally speaking, market economists expect the taper to reduce purchases by $5 to $10 billion dollars, split between the Treasury securities and MBS. But some economists argue that the tapering should and will be focused on the Treasury securities. This expectation is largely inspired by a paper presented at the Kansas City Fed's Economic Policy Symposium† in Jackson Hole last month. Arvind Krishnamurthy and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen's paper "The Ins and Outs of LSAPs," was hyped up by the Goldman Sachs economics team even before it was even presented.† (NYT economics reporter Binyamin Appelbaum's got the easy-to-read rundown of the paper and the previous work of the authors.) In brief: the paper argues that "MBS purchases have been more effective than Treasury purchases in lowering mortgage rates and, thus, supporting the economy," according to Goldman Sachs' summary. And the prescription for tapering would be to wind down Treasury purchases first, then follow that with MBS reductions. Here's exactly how Krishnamurthy and Vissing-Jorgensen argues the tapering should occur: From this analysis of the mechanics of LSAPs, we conclude that an exit should proceed in the following sequence: The Fed should first cease its purchases of Treasury bonds and then sell down its Treasury portfolio. Second, the Fed should sell its higher-coupon MBS as this will have small effects on primary market mortgage rates. The last step in this sequence is that the Fed should cease its purchases of current-coupon MBS as this tool is currently the most beneficial source of economic stimulus. This recommendation seems particularly relevant considering the recent wave of soft housing data in the wake of rising mortgage rates. And Wall Street's economists have been mindful of all of this in their FOMC research notes: "Many on the committee believe MBS purchases are more beneficial than Treasury purchases, and a paper delivered at the 2013 Economic Symposium at Jackson Hole, WY, also reflects this view." ó Michael Gapen, Barclays "As follow-on to a paper presented by Professor Arvind Krishnamurthy at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas Cityís Jackson Hole Conference, several findings are helpful for decision makers and investors...Since the impact on the MBS (and housing) market appears to be significant relative to the Treasury market, if the Fed pursues a more cautious tapering program, the purchase of Treasury debt is likely to be the focus of the early phase of tapering..." óJohn Silvia, Wells Fargo "...In addition to the shifting views on MBS sales, and asset sales more broadly, recent research has raised further questions about the assumed sequence. A recent study by Arvind Krishnamurthy and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen presented at the 2013 Jackson Hole Symposium suggested the most optimal sequence.." óAneta Markowska, SocGen "Fed officials had previously noted that their announced plan for normalizing policy is under review. A presentation at Jackson Hole by Professor Krishnamurthy of the Kellogg School of Management suggests that the Fed may be in the process of rethinking its exit plans. Krishnamurthy argues that the optimal exit sequence would be: 1) cease Treasury buying; 2) sell Treasury debt; 3) sell older MBS; and then, finally 4) cease new MBS purchases. Professor Krishnamurthyís previous work (with Professor Vissing-Jorgensen of UC Berkeley) has been cited as having had some influence on Fed policy in the past and, as such, his argument that MBS buying has a greater effect on the economy may resonate within the FOMC. This is particularly true if the recent weakness in new home sales reflects the impact of higher rates." óDrew Matus, UBS (Aug. 26, 2013) But ultimately, there's no guarantee what the Fed might do and what it might thing. "It must be noted that the Fedís views on asset sales ñ and purchases for that matter ñ are still evolving," said SocGen's Markowska.
REUTERS/Ina FassbenderFedEx just released its fiscal first quarter financial results. Earnings per share climbed to $1.53, up from $1.45 a year ago. This was stronger than the $1.50 expected by analysts. Freight shipping revenue climbed 2% while ground shipping revenue jumped 11%. ìGrowth in overall demand for our broad global portfolio of solutions drove our improved first quarter results,î said CEO Fred Smith. As player with footholds around the world, FedEx is considered an important bellwether of the global economy. Management reaffirmed its expectation that full-year earnings would grow by 7% to 13%. This assumes U.S. GDP growth of 2.1% and global GDP growth of 2.6%. ìWe remain confident in our full year earnings outlook despite tepid global economic growth," said CFO Alan Graf. "FedEx Express will increase shipping rates by an average of 3.9% for U.S. domestic, U.S. export and U.S. import services effective January 6, 2014," said management. "The FedEx Ground and FedEx SmartPost pricing changes for 2014 will be announced later this year. FedEx Freight implemented a 4.5% general rate increase on July 1, 2013. "
Getty ImagesI keep saying that ìtaperingî isnít ìunprintingî. †That is, if youíre inclined to believe that QE = ìmoney printingî then ìtaperingî = ìless money printingî. †Itís still ìmoney printingî. †Itís just less ìmoney printingî. †So, if your bullish thesis (or conspiracy theory) revolves around QE continuing then here are 7 reasons to convince yourself that QE isnít ending any time soon (via ZeroHedge, but really via Merrill Lynch): ì1. Both growth and inflation data continue to come in below the Fedís forecasts and they will likely revise their GDP and inflation forecasts lower at the September meeting. 2. The unemployment rate has moved closer to the 7% ìindicationî for ending QE; however, as we have argued and the minutes confirm, the Fed is only using 7% as a rough summary statistic for a broad-based recovery. 3. At the July meeting, just one meeting before the alleged certain tapering, the Fed showed no urgency. They had inconclusive debates about inflation, growth and financial conditions, and they had no discussion of the specifics of tapering. 4. Public statements by Fed officials have been similarly ambiguous. Time is running out. 5. The Fed has never said September is the month, they have consistently said ìlater this yearî ó that means at any of the next three meetings. 6. The Fed meets on September 18, right in the middle of what could be another nasty fight over the budget and the debt ceiling. A key reason for tapering is that fiscal risks are fading with the cliff behind us. But are they really fading or is this just a temporary lull in the fiscal fracas? 7. Last, but not least, the core of a bullish forecast ó a solid housing recovery ó is now in serious doubt.î
REUTERS/ Kevin LamarqueGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
AFPMulti-billionaire Zong Qinghou, China's second richest man, was attacked and injured by a would-be job applicant wielding a knife, official media said Wednesday. Zong, China's richest man until he was dethroned last week, is chairman of the country's leading beverage producer Wahaha Group. Forbes magazine estimates his personal wealth at $11 billion, second only to Wang Jianlin, head of conglomerate Wanda Group, on $14 billion. An unemployed man armed with a knife approached Zong near his home in the eastern city of Hangzhou on Friday and asked him for a job with Wahaha, the official Xinhua news agency reported. When he was rebuffed the man, surnamed Yang, turned violent and attacked the 67-year-old tycoon, it said, citing police. He suffered injuries to tendons in two fingers of his left hand. Yang, 49, from Suzhou in the neighbouring province of Jiangsu, was arrested on the same day as the attack. Xinhua quoted Zong saying the attack was just an "accident" and he had "recovered well", adding that the group said he had returned to work. The Hong Kong Commercial Daily reported earlier Wednesday that the attack might have been revenge for the removal of executives at a Wahaha unit, citing an unnamed source. Neither Wahaha nor police in Hangzhou could immediately be reached for comment by AFP. Zong started his business in 1987 on a tricycle selling soft drinks and ice cream and built Wahaha into one of the top 500 private firms in China, according to the company's website. The company currently employs nearly 30,000 people in more than 70 production facilities across China. Its revenue reached 63.6 billion yuan ($10.4 billion) last year. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
YouTube The term "Red Line" has been on people's minds lately, mostly as it relates to how bad the situation in Syria can get before the world is forced to intervene. But what about when a depressed economy turns into total societal collapse? Writing in Greek newspaper Ekathimerini, Nikos Xydakis argues that Greece has hit its "Red Line," as a young activist/rapper by the name of Pavlos Fyssas was murdered allegedly at the hands of a member of Greece's Neo-Nazi Golden Dawn party. September 18, 2013, must be seen as a wake-up call for Greek democracy, the countryís institutions and its citizens. The murder of 34-year-old musician Pavlos Fyssas in Keratsini by extremists is the culmination in a wave of violent activities over the past few days which began with attacks on Greek Communist Party members in Perama carried out by alleged supporters of Golden Dawn. This is not about the display of power and leadership on the streets of symbolically working class neighborhoods; this is not a war between hooligans. This is a case of destabilizing the rule of law, a practical denial of democracy, a logical extension of the political practices of those who deny the Holocaust and that people were killed at the Athens Polytechnic uprising against the junta in 1973. While Greece's economy is ostensibly in a state of improvement, the situation is so horrendous that changes at the margins or "green shoots" can't come nearly fast enough. Polls still show the Golden Dawn polling in the teens, making it the third largest political party in the country. Despite Greece's improvement and actual heroic efforts at improving its governments finances, the rest of Europe continues to dither about supporting it insisting on more painful "medicine" that ultimately is destroying the country.
APHoward Schultz, Chairman & CEO of Starbucks, established the company's European headquarters in Amsterdam in 2002 On Tuesday night, Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz wrote the following open letter asking customers to no longer bring firearms into the stores, even in states where they are legally permissible to carry. He notes that this is not a "ban" on guns, but rather a request. In the letter, Schultz expresses frustration with pro-gun activists who have held "Starbucks Appreciation Day" events at the company's location, ostensibly to laud the coffee shop's policy on open-carry. Schultz does not want these events held at Starbucks any longer. With the letter, he risks incurring the anger of a large segment of the population. Tuesday, September 17, 2013 Posted by Howard Schultz, Starbucks chairman, president and chief executive officer Dear Fellow Americans, Few topics in America generate a more polarized and emotional debate than guns. In recent months, Starbucks stores and our partners (employees) who work in our stores have been thrust unwillingly into the middle of this debate. That‚Äôs why I am writing today with a respectful request that customers no longer bring firearms into our stores or outdoor seating areas. From the beginning, our vision at Starbucks has been to create a ‚Äúthird place‚Äù between home and work where people can come together to enjoy the peace and pleasure of coffee and community. Our values have always centered on building community rather than dividing people, and our stores exist to give every customer a safe and comfortable respite from the concerns of daily life. We appreciate that there is a highly sensitive balance of rights and responsibilities surrounding America‚Äôs gun laws, and we recognize the deep passion for and against the ‚Äúopen carry‚Äù laws adopted by many states. (In the United States, ‚Äúopen carry‚Äù is the term used for openly carrying a firearm in public.) For years we have listened carefully to input from our customers, partners, community leaders and voices on both sides of this complicated, highly charged issue. Our company‚Äôs longstanding approach to ‚Äúopen carry‚Äù has been to follow local laws: we permit it in states where allowed and we prohibit it in states where these laws don‚Äôt exist. We have chosen this approach because we believe our store partners should not be put in the uncomfortable position of requiring customers to disarm or leave our stores. We believe that gun policy should be addressed by government and law enforcement‚Äînot by Starbucks and our store partners. Recently, however, we‚Äôve seen the ‚Äúopen carry‚Äù debate become increasingly uncivil and, in some cases, even threatening. Pro-gun activists have used our stores as a political stage for media events misleadingly called ‚ÄúStarbucks Appreciation Days‚Äù that disingenuously portray Starbucks as a champion of ‚Äúopen carry.‚Äù To be clear: we do not want these events in our stores. Some anti-gun activists have also played a role in ratcheting up the rhetoric and friction, including soliciting and confronting our customers and partners. For these reasons, today we are respectfully requesting that customers no longer bring firearms into our stores or outdoor seating areas‚Äîeven in states where ‚Äúopen carry‚Äù is permitted‚Äîunless they are authorized law enforcement personnel. I would like to clarify two points. First, this is a request and not an outright ban. Why? Because we want to give responsible gun owners the chance to respect our request‚Äîand also because enforcing a ban would potentially require our partners to confront armed customers, and that is not a role I am comfortable asking Starbucks partners to take on. Second, we know we cannot satisfy everyone. For those who oppose ‚Äúopen carry,‚Äù we believe the legislative and policy-making process is the proper arena for this debate, not our stores. For those who champion ‚Äúopen carry,‚Äù please respect that Starbucks stores are places where everyone should feel relaxed and comfortable. The presence of a weapon in our stores is unsettling and upsetting for many of our customers. I am proud of our country and our heritage of civil discourse and debate. It is in this spirit that we make today‚Äôs request. Whatever your view, I encourage you to be responsible and respectful of each other as citizens and neighbors. Sincerely, Howard Schultz
REUTERS/Jim YoungFed Chairman Ben BernankeAs market-watchers, nothing gives us heart palpitations quite like a meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. And fortunately, a big one is coming up today! But for most people, the Federal Reserve invokes confusion, derision, or nausea. Inspired by some other great "explainers" we've seen lately, here's the definitive Federal Reserve Q&amp;A, answering all your questions shame free. Hopefully, this will help you understand this week's big meeting, as well as all future ones. Let's get started. What is the Federal Reserve? The Federal Reserve¬†‚Äî or "the Fed"¬†‚Äî is the central bank of the United States. Let's just start with what a central bank is, since plenty of countries have them. Actually, the U.S. was pretty late to the central banking game, as Americans' spirit of individualism generally inspires disdain for large, centrally-coordinated government authorities.¬†Central banks are tasked with controlling interest rates, the money supply, and¬†overseeing the banking system. How is the Fed set up? In a stranger way than most central banks. There are four tiers: The Board of Governors, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), 12 regional banks, and smaller member banks. We'll start from the top. The Board of Governors is responsible for much of the monetary policy we'll describe later. These seven people are nominated by the President, pass Senate approval, and sit in Washington making decisions. Ben Bernanke is the current chairman. His term will end in January, and people have been speculating¬†and endorsing¬†like crazy about who his replacement will be. Next we have the FOMC, a committee of seven Board of Governors members and five regional bank presidents. The FOMC runs open market operations, which we'll also get to later. Then there are the 12 regional banks, responsible for much of the nitty gritty banking stuff (like check clearing). They are located in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Each regional bank has a president and oversees the thousands of member banks in its region. Those are very random cities. Yeah, it's weird. You can actually chalk that up to¬†1913 American politics. There were a lot of holdouts when Congress was voting on the Federal Reserve Act in 1913. The senator from Missouri, for example, could only be swayed if his home state became the only one to house two regional banks. This seems complicated and arbitrary. Why do we even have a Federal Reserve? As we mentioned, the U.S. didn't have a Federal Reserve bank for a long time. This meant that the late 19th Century was basically a series of uncontrollable economic panics. It wasn't until 1907, when the New York Stock Exchange fell 50% and depositors "ran on the bank" to recoup their money, that people warmed to the idea of a central bank and legislation passed. ArchivesSo the point of the Fed is to control economic panics? How? Well, yes (at first). We all know that when you deposit a check, the money doesn't just stay in your bank's vault until you need to hit the ATM because this bar is cash-only. No, banks move around and invest most of what they take in. This is how banks make money, among other ways. There are, of course, rules now about how much banks have to hold in "reserves," but the problem before the Federal Reserve was this: What happens when all the depositors want their cash back at once, a la the bank run scene in It's A Wonderful Life. As you'll recall, Jimmy Stewart's George Bailey tells the townspeople of Bedford Falls, "You're thinking of this place all wrong. As if I had the money back in a safe. The money's not here. Your money's in Joe's house... and in the Kennedy house, and Mrs. Macklin's house, and a hundred others." George Bailey was actually talking about fractional-reserve banking. Today the Federal Reserve might say, "George, if all else fails, we can step in and be the lender of last resort." The Fed kind of¬†did say that in 2008, albeit not to George Bailey, but to nine highly-paid bank CEOs. How can the Fed be the lender of last resort? We're not sure you want to ask that because the answer may scare you. We know the Federal Reserve has power to print money. Theoretically, though, it could print enough money to bail out anyone or anything in any situation. How? As a fiat currency, the dollar is not tied to anything. It was once tied to gold, but Richard Nixon got rid of that in 1971. Debt hawks are wrong when they say things like, "The U.S. is becoming the next Greece." Greece doesn't have its own state currency, and needs to be periodically bailed out by Europe's central bank. But the United States as a whole can always just print more money! That doesn't seem sustainable. It's not. To be fair, it's not exactly like we're just sitting here sending truckloads of $100 dollar bills into the economy. Plenty of governments have tried to do that¬†and bad things have happened. The good news is that the Fed keeps a watchful eye on inflation to make sure that, as the balance sheet expands, we're not seeing runaway figures. Still, as originally intended, the Federal Reserve exists¬†to extend credit to banks or other institutions in emergency circumstances like a bank run. Of course, we've come a long way in 100 years, and new circumstances like the financial crisis have inspired the Fed to do a lot of new things. They admit as much in their mission statement: "To provide the nation with a safer, more flexible, and more stable monetary and financial system. Over the years, its role in banking and the economy has expanded." Expanded? What does the Fed do now? The Fed sets what's known as "monetary policy" in order to promote the economic health of the country. Monetary policy impacts interest rates, which obviously impact the economy. Via monetary policy, the Fed intervenes in a few key ways. 1. The discount rate: "The discount rate is the interest rate charged to commercial banks and other depository institutions on loans they receive from their regional Federal Reserve Bank's lending facility ‚Äî¬†the discount window," according to the Fed. Don't worry too much about this one for our purposes. 2. Reserve requirements: How much a bank has to hold in reserves. The Fed uses the tool to control how much banks can lend out. Federal Reserve 3. Open Market Operations (OMO): Listen up because this one is important. You might have heard how the Fed is buying assets in a program known as Quantitative Easing, and we'll get to that later. OMOs are similar, and have been the longstanding program by which the Fed implements monetary policy. The Fed has used OMOs, the purchase of government bonds on the open market, as a means to adjust the federal funds rate to a specified Fed target. The federal funds rate is a metric that controls "interbank loans."¬† When the Fed reduces the federal funds rate, as it has done since the crisis, it encourages banks to take out interbank loans. That incentivizes them to lend more freely, which theoretically speeds up the economy. Conversely, the Fed would raise the federal funds rate if it thought the system was too loose and could create a bubble. With the economy in recovery mode, the Federal Reserve wants to keep the federal funds rate as low as possible.¬†The only problem now is that it has been at 0% since 2009. In fact, the Federal Reserve has been operating under ZIRP¬†‚Äî zero-interest rate policy. Simply put, nominal interest rates are as low as they can go. We've reached the boundary of conventional monetary policy wisdom. So what monetary measure can the Federal Reserve take if rates are at zero? We told you we'd get to Quantitative Easing (QE) later. It's later. QE is what's known as "unconventional monetary policy," which is a nicer way of saying "Sure, I guess we'll try this now." In the wake of the financial crisis, and with rates at the "zero lower bound," the bank introduced a spate of new monetary policy options. Chief among them was "quantitative easing," a program in which the Fed purchases assets in order to increase the money supply. Since 2008, the Fed has purchased billions of dollars worth of mortgage-backed securities (those bad things that helped cause the financial crisis) and billions of dollars worth of Treasury notes. Along the way since then, the Fed introduced two new "rounds" of QE. QE has kept interest rates low, some would argue artificially and "uneconomically" low. Either way, the upshot has been a rebounding stock and bond market in the years since the crisis. Now, critics of QE (who like to call the third round "QE-Infinity" due to the program's endurance) have warned that this kind of asset purchasing will lead to higher inflation. Controlling inflation, as it happens, is one of the Fed's chief concerns. So far, we haven't seen the kind of inflation people were worried about, and economist Paul Krugman gained a lot of notoriety for basically calling QE critics¬†wrong¬†over and over again.¬†That doesn't mean the program isn't problematic. The Fed's balance sheet has grown immensely, to $3.6 trillion. Will QE ever stop? In June, the Fed sent markets in a tizzy by announcing it would look at "tapering" QE. Now, tapering doesn't mean ceasing the purchase of assets. It means buying them at a slower rate. Markets still freaked out and interest rates shot up. Even with a taper, it looks like QE will go on for a while longer. And even when it finishes, people are unsure how exactly a central bank can unwind $3.6 trillion. So what the Fed says or does really impacts the market? You said it. The Fed has tried to be pretty direct by offering what's known as "forward guidance"¬†‚Äî meaning clear communication about future interest rates. Having exhausted its normal monetary policy tools, the Federal Reserve has said it will tether policy changes to observed economic indicators. Better communication will help market actors "price in" economic changes.  Think of it this way, the Fed right now is saying, "Look, we're going to keep rates low for a very long time." Normally, the Fed only controls the short-term interest rate, but by telling Wall Street that they can borrow at low rates for a long time, firms will presumably be more eager to lend money out to the American people (at a lower interest rate too). Central banks usually act in a shroud of mystery, but Chairman Bernanke clearly wants to uproot that. Other central bankers, like Mark Carney in England, have followed suit. The Fed says that it will keep the federal funds rate unchanged until we hit 6-6.5% unemployment. We're currently at 7.3%. Seems clear enough, but market still get roiled every¬†time the Fed opens its mouth or people think it just did. Central banks will always make waves in markets because what they do or say is clearly so intrinsic to the future of economy. Guessing on the future of the economy remains how traders make money, so you can imagine how angry some of them get when the they think the Fed isn't being clear about its intentions. Money For NothingPictured center: Former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan (1987-2006) Hold on, let's go back a second. You never said anything about the unemployment rate. Ah sorry, yes, the Fed does concern itself with employment figures. As a 100-year old institution, the Fed's responsibilities have been revised by legislation through the years. There was the 1946 Employment Act which called upon the government to pursue maximum employment. Then in 1977, Congress got more specific and passed the Federal Reserve Reform Act, which instructs the Fed to use monetary policy to promote employment and control inflation.¬†That law didn't happen by accident. You might recall that the late¬†1970s was a terrible time for employment and inflation. But why do people hate the Fed? Surely you're talking about Ron Paul's campaign battle cry to "End the Fed." Or perhaps Rick Perry's veiled threat to murder Ben Bernanke for high treason. The Fed today has what is known as a "dual mandate" to keep an eye inflation and employment at the same time. And this is one of the chief critiques¬†that Fed haters cite. Critics stress that the original intention of the Fed was to avoid banking panics. If the Fed has to concern itself with employment, it has an incentive to keep interest rates low to juice the economy. But if you keep interest rates low, especially during good times, bubbles can and will appear. In 2001, we saw a stock bubble. In 2007, an asset (housing) bubble. Bubbles, as history has shown us, lead to the kinds of banking crises the Fed was originally tasked with preventing. So what's the likelihood of another crisis? If you can answer that, you should be a central banker. This is hard stuff. The people at the Fed are genuinely trying to ensure the health and stability of the American economy. In retrospect, it's easy to see clear central banking mistakes. During his tenure as Fed Chair in the 1990s, Alan Greenspan was hailed as a demigod for having "figured out" monetary policy. It wasn't until the housing market crashed years later that people realized his policy of ultra-low interest rates and deregulation fostered an economic powder keg. Monetary policy can have reverberations years ‚Äî perhaps decades¬†‚Äî¬†later, so it's best to pay attention.¬†It's not easy work, but hopefully now you understand it a little better.
YouTubeThe only man in America brave enough to stand up to the gun lobby. (Reuters) - Coffee chain Starbucks Corp has asked U.S. customers to leave their guns at home after being dragged into an increasingly fractious debate over U.S. gun rights in the wake of multiple mass shootings. While many U.S. restaurant chains and retailers do not allow firearms on their properties, Starbucks' policy had been to default to local gun laws, including "open carry" regulations in many U.S. states that allow people to bring guns into stores. In August, this led gun-rights advocates to hold a national "Starbucks Appreciation Day" to thank the firm for its stance, pulling the company deeper into the fierce political fight. Locations for Starbucks Appreciation Day events included Newtown, Connecticut, where 20 children and six adults were shot dead in an elementary school in December. Starbucks closed that shop before the event was scheduled to begin. Chief Executive Howard Schultz said in an open letter to customers late Tuesday that Starbucks Appreciation Day events "disingenuously portray Starbucks as a champion of 'open carry.' To be clear: we do not want these events in our stores." The coffee chain did not, however, issue an outright ban on guns in its nearly 7,000 company-owned cafes, saying this would potentially require staff to confront armed customers. The Seattle-based company hoped to give "responsible gun owners a chance to respect its request," Schultz said. The CEO told Reuters the policy change was not the result of the Newtown Starbucks Appreciation Day event, which prompted the Newtown Action Alliance to call on the company to ban guns at all of its U.S. stores. Nor was it in response to the mass shootings this week at the Washington Navy Yard. "We've seen the 'open carry' debate become increasingly uncivil and, in some cases, even threatening," Schultz wrote, noting that "some anti-gun activists have also played a role in ratcheting up the rhetoric and friction," at times soliciting and confronting employees and patrons. "We found ourselves in a position where advocates on both sides of the issue were using Starbucks as a staging ground for their own political position," said Schultz, who in the past has willingly waded into the public debate over the U.S. national debt and gay marriage. Schultz said more people had been bringing guns into Starbucks shops over the last six months, prompting confusion and dismay among some customers and employees. "I'm not worried we're going to lose customers over this," he told Reuters. "I feel like I've made the best decision in the interest of our company." Starbucks' request does not apply to authorized law enforcement personnel. (Editing by Philip Barbara and Mark Potter)
It's still a quiet morning, as we wait for the big Fed decision this afternoon. But markets are gaining some lift. US futures are at their highs of the morning. FinViz
AFPThousands of civil servants were to demonstrate in Athens against staff cuts on Wednesday, hours after an anti-fascist artist's murder, allegedly at the hands of a suspected neo-Nazi, raised social tension. Pavlos Fyssas, a 34-year-old hip hop artist and anti-fascist, was stabbed to death early on Wednesday morning in the western Athens district of Keratsini, reportedly after a football argument. Police said they had arrested a 45-year-old member of the Golden Dawn neo-Nazi group in connection with the killing. Golden Dawn immediately denied any connection, but the incident is likely to inflame the precarious social situation in Greece where anger is simmering over four years of austerity cuts. On Monday, at least 17,000 teachers and civil servants took to the streets to protest against new government plans for massive public sector redeployments and layoffs. Two separate demonstrations are planned in Athens on Wednesday, with civil servants joined by hospital doctors, municipal workers and teachers. Greece's union of civil servants has called a two-day strike over the latest job overhaul. Overall, Greece has pledged to axe 4,000 state jobs and redeploy 25,000 public sector workers by the end of the year, in return for its much-needed rescue loans. Civil servants have to accept new posts or spend eight months on reduced salaries as alternative posts are found, with the risk of losing their jobs altogether. Hard hit by the economic crisis, Greece is experiencing a sixth year of continuous recession and has a staggering 27-percent unemployment rate. Conservative Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, who heads a tenuous coalition with the socialists, this week said the Greek economy is likely to need another six years to return to pre-crisis levels.
REUTERS/Jim YoungU.S. Chairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke listens to questions as he testifies before a House Budget Committee hearing on "The Near-Term Outlook for the U.S. Economy" on Capitol Hill in Washington, January 17, 2008.SocGen currency strategist Kit Juckes has the ultra-condensed guided to watching the Fed today. In an email to clients he writes: There are three points to the FOMC announcement and press conference. The first is that the size of the ëtaperingí will be announced. Unless there is a shock and they delay, the actual size matters little. We expect them to finish tapering in March, in time for the unemployment rate to fall below 7%. The second is the ëtapering isnít tighteningí dovish commentary from Ben Bernanke. The third is the Fed Funds profile, out to 2016 that accompanies the announcement.† Itís a series of dots, representing the FOMC votersí views. The one other thing that matters is the economic forecast that the Federal Reserve gives. How it projects the economy going forward could be seen as a proxy for its plans to keeping rates very low for a long time. And for a fuller Fed preview, see here.
REUTERS/Yuriko NakaoObviously today is "Fed Day" as the world waits to see whether Bernanke &amp; Co. will start to slow the pace of Large-Scale Asset Purchases (also known as QE). In the meantime, there are a few other economic datapoints coming that could be interesting. Here they are, via Calculated Risk: ‚Ä¢ 7:00 AM ET, the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) will release the results for the mortgage purchase applications index. ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM, Housing Starts for August. The consensus is for total housing starts to increase to 915 thousand (SAAR) in August. ‚Ä¢ During the day, the AIA's Architecture Billings Index for August(a leading indicator for commercial real estate).
APBill de Blasio, Democratic nominee for Mayor of New York CityThis week, Michael Powell wrote for the New York times that a potential Mayor Bill de Blasio might not be such a departure from Mayor Mike Bloomberg, because Bloomberg has been a far more progressive mayor than city Democrats are giving him credit for. That's true. But there's another reason he might not be such a departure from the center-left Bloomberg model: De Blasio is not as left-wing as either his supporters or his opponents tend to think. When people talk about de Blasio as a new standard bearer for the progressive left, they focus on a few things: His rhetoric about New York being "a tale of two cities"; the horror that he seems to inspire in certain parts of the city's business establishment; his call for a tax increase on city residents making over $500,000; and his strong opposition to the NYPD's heavy use of "stop &amp; frisk." All except the last of these are bad benchmarks. Rhetoric is just rhetoric. And de Blasio's tax proposal is both small and unlikely to become law. He would raise income taxes by 0.55 percentage points on high earners, generating enough revenue to increase the city's budget by $530 million a year, out of a total of $70 billion. The state legislature will likely shoot down the proposal anyway. De Blasio's tax plan is far more important as a talking point, and a demonstration that he stands for the people against the powerful, than it is as fiscal policy. If we want to figure out how left-wing a mayor de Blasio would be, we should focus on the four really important policy issues that the mayor actually has lots of control over: Housing and real estate development, education, policing, and employee compensation. The picture on these is a mixed bag. Housing and real estate development: De Blasio has been rhetorically critical of high-end development in New York City. In an interview with The Real Deal, a real estate publication, he remarked that "Towering, glitzy buildings marketed to the global elite is not the type of development New Yorkers are looking for." He has called for the city to stop making unneeded tax giveaways to developers for luxury developments, and has said he would require the construction of more affordable housing, with a goal of adding or preserving 220,000 affordable units in the city. This doesn't make de Blasio a left-winger. People often think of affordable housing as an issue that pits developers against the left: Will we let them build luxury condos or will we make them build for the middle class? But de Blasio's approach to affordable housing looks designed to create a win-win: more density, more development, more affordable housing as part of that development, more developer profits, and more real estate taxes collected by the city. In that Real Deal interview, de Blasio twice said the city should increase as-of-right development (that is, upzone) in exchange for added affordable housing. That is, in exchange for building the affordable units he wants, he will let developers build more overall. He also supports several market-based approaches to increasing the supply of housing, such as greater use of transferrable development rights (letting landowners sell one parcel's development rights to be used elsewhere) and legalizing accessory units (letting you rent out your basement). He also wants to raise the taxes on vacant land, in order to encourage landowners to build already. On the other hand, he says he wants the city to be allowed to impose its own rent control laws. Fortunately, Albany won't allow that. Even though de Blasio is often painted as an opponent of the city's overclass, he's done quite well raising money from the real estate industry. As Derek Kravitz wrote for The New Yorker last week, he was a frequent booster of development during his time on the city council. He gave a speech in July where he focused on the need to maximize development in the city in order to create jobs.¬†‚ÄúWe can‚Äôt afford a process rife with delays, subject to knee-jerk¬†NIMBYism and tangled in bureaucracy,‚Äù he said. So de Blasio looks set to be a pro-development mayor like Bloomberg. In fact, he may well be better for development than Bloomberg in two ways. One, by tying his upzoning proposals to the issue of affordable housing, he may more easily overcome the opposition of neighbors who don't want tall buildings and construction noise. Two, if he's able to get developers to do what he wants by offering them greater density, he may not be as inclined as Bloomberg to offer sweetheart tax and subsidy deals. On housing and real estate issues: Not left wing. Education: De Blasio wants the aforementioned income tax increase to pay for an expansion of the city's pre-Kindergarten program and after-school programs for middle school students. He wants to de-empahsize testing and change the way the city admits students to magnet schools. He thinks the Bloomberg Administration has been too quick to close troubled schools. And he wants charter schools to start paying rent when they use public school buildings. All those positions put him to the left of Bloomberg (and the rest of the city's pro-reform establishment) on education issues. But they didn't put him far enough to the left to get the endorsement of the United Federation of Teachers in the primary: They backed former Comptroller Bill Thompson. On education: Pretty left wing. Policing: The biggest policing issue in the campaign has been stop-and-frisk. De Blasio has called for a reduction in its use, a ban on racial profiling in policing, an independent inspector general to oversee the NYPD (recently approved by the City Council over Bloomberg's veto), and a new police commissioner to replace Ray Kelly. This is a major distinction from Bloomberg and from the Republican nominee to replace him, former Deputy Mayor Joe Lhota: they both think the NYPD is doing basically the right thing with its aggressive stop and frisk practices. De Blasio wants the NYPD to de-emphasize marijuana enforcement. On that issue, Lhota is to his left: He's for marijuana legalization. (Sadly, the city can't legalize marijuana on its own; that would require state legislative action.) De Blasio also stresses the need for alternatives to incarceration and initiatives to help offenders reintegrate into society when they get out of prison. This is more a continuation of the Bloomberg approach than a departure. One of Bloomberg's proudest accomplishments is that he has reduced the city's jail population by half. And the area's top proponents of prisoner re-entry programs are centrists: Newark Mayor Cory Booker (D) and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie (R). On crime: To the left on one important issue (stop-and-frisk) but otherwise in step with the establishment. Employee compensation: About 50% of New York City's municipal budget is spent on employee wages and benefits. The better a mayor controls these costs, the more money he will have for anything else he wants to do. Mayor Bloomberg gave out fairly generous wage increases during his first two terms as mayor but has refused to sign any union contracts with raises in his third term due to the fiscal stress created by the recession.¬†As a result, most of the city's employee unions have been out of contract for four years. They're holding out, hoping the next mayor will give them a retroactive pay increase, but it's not clear where the money for that would come from. The city's reserve funds are depleted. Partly that's because pension and health benefit costs have continued to rise sharply even while wages have been flat. My hunch is that de Blasio would be too inclined to make giveaways to the city's unions. But it's really just a hunch. Like most of his Democratic opponents in the primary, he's been studiously vague about employee compensation issues, including retroactive raises and whether city workers should start paying part of their health insurance premiums. He says (probably correctly) that it's unwise to negotiate in public. It's also worth noting that de Blasio did not get many public employee union endorsements in the primary. Comptroller John Liu got District Council 37, the city's largest public workers' union; Thompson got the teachers and most of the public safety unions. So, the groups most interested in finding a mayor who would give away the farm to public workers didn't think de Blasio was their best bet. On employee compensation: maybe left-wing. We'll have to wait to find out.
Flickr/Sebastian BergmannGood morning! It's a possibly historic day, as the Fed may or may not take its first tentative steps towards scaling back on some of its post-crisis easing measures via "tapering" the pace of Quantitative Easing bond purchases. A full preview of what's at stake, and what the Fed might do is here. In the meantime, markets gained in Asia, but in Europe and the US things are basically flat, as everyone waits before the big moment, which doesn't come until 2 PM. Things are likely to be fairly quiet until then.
