Some people believe gold is nonsense. Some people think Bitcoin is nonsense. For those of you who believe both things, this chart is either totally worthless or it completely makes your case. It's Bitcoin priced in mg of gold courtesy of our friend Charles Vollum at PricedInGold.com. "Because it is a young currency, bitcoin has had various "teething" problems, and some of these have caused wild swings in value," writes Vollum. "As the software is refined, as more vendors start accepting bitcoin, and more users choose it for their transactions, these wild swings should damp out." "On the other hand, it is entirely possible that some flaw in the system may come to light, rendering bitcoins completely worthless," he added. "In any event, it is wonderful to see new forms of free market money offering choices for saving and facilitating trade." PricedInGold.com
Robert Couse-Baker / FlickrDespite all the liquidity sloshing around the financial system courtesy of quantitative easing, inflation remains worryingly low ñ and it may be because central banks are exporting deflation, HSBC said. "It's a monetary version of currency wars," the bank said in a note. "Rather than removing deflationary trends, monetary stimulus merely allows central banks to export deflation to other parts of the world." Sizeable exchange rate declines have followed the initial forays into quantitative easing from various global central banks, temporarily lifting inflation in "host" countries, the bank noted. (Read more: Investors see deflation as bigger threat than inflation) "Yet, for every exchange rate decline, there has also, inevitably, been an exchange rate rise. And for those who have experienced 'unwanted' exchange rate gains, inflation has ended up lower than expected and, often, lower than desired," it noted, citing the euro zone's lower-than-expected inflation in the second half of this year. The European Central Bank has avoided fresh stimulus moves even as the Federal Reserve continued its asset purchases and the Bank of Japan introduced a massive asset-buying program in April. "If unconventional policies work primarily through the exchange rate, they serve primarily to export, rather than cure, disinflationary pressures," it said. "It's increasingly apparent that one country's monetary stimulus is another's ball and chain." (Read more: Quantitative easing doesn't cause inflation or deflation) But with the exception of Japan, all regions have recently experienced unexpected declines in inflation, it noted. That may be because with interest rates effectively around zero, monetary stimulus is merely boosting asset prices, without spurring faster economic growth, the bank said. "If companies, households and governments are busily deleveraging, monetary stimulus may fall on deaf economic ears," HSBC said. "If there is uncertainty about the longer-term fiscal arithmetic, increases in government borrowing may only prompt others to save more or, alternatively, repay debt more aggressively. Under these circumstances, whatever any individual central bank chooses to do, it may be powerless to prevent a global deflationary bias." (Read more: Could QE spur deflation, not inflation?) Persistently low inflation presents real dangers to the global economic recovery. "In a standard economic cycle, activity leads inflation," HSBC noted. "In a post-bubble environment, where debts are high and deleveraging is rife, the opposite applies: excessively low inflation increases real debt levels, makes deleveraging more difficult and, eventually, suppresses demand and activity." Japan is the obvious example, it said, noting a mid-1990s recovery was derailed by a combination of creeping deflation and premature policy tightening. (Read more: Is the euro zone at risk of Japan style deflation?) HSBC doesn't expect an outright descent into deflation, but it sees risks inflation may continue to decline over the next two years. "Forward guidance may increasingly have to focus on the dangers associated with inflationary undershoots than on growth overshoots in the coming months, implying lower interest rates for longer, particularly in the U.S. and the euro zone." óBy CNBC.Com's Leslie Shaffer; Follow her on Twitter @LeslieShaffer1  
Warner Brothers/IMDBFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Should Learn And Unlearn Many Things From Investment Ideas That Worked In 2013 (Barron's)  In a new Barron's piece, Jeffrey Kleintop at LPL Financial lists 10 lessons from 2013, that investors should heed as they prep for the new year. First up are five key takeaways. 1. "Bonds can lose money." 2. "Sentiment can matter more than fundamentals." 3. "Time heals all wounds," as money rushed into U.S. stock funds in 2013 after they experienced years of net outflows following the financial crisis. 4. The market can be led higher by defensive stocks. 5. Historically, annual returns have been in the 5%-10% range only eight times in the past 86 years. 2013 saw 30% returns in the S&amp;P 500 showing that "annual returns are rarely average." But Kleintop also points out that there were some things that worked in 2013 that investors need to unlearn. 1. "Diversification is worthless," because a buy and hold strategy in U.S. stocks would have done very well in 2013. 2. Sometimes the biggest risks don't materialize. Just because they didn't in 2013 doesn't mean they won't again or that they weren't real. 3. After the great run that stocks had this year, some think that stocks can go up in a straight line. But they shouldn't Kleintop warns, saying there's volatility in the years ahead. 4. That dividends don't count. "In an income-hungry market, dividends are likely to be attractive to many investors in the years ahead." 5. "Policy is all that matters." There's A Massive Buying Opportunity In The Muni Bond Market (Investment News)  Follow Detroit's default and the debt crisis in Puerto Rico, investors are antsy about investing in municipal bonds. But in an Investment News column, Roberto Roffo, a portfolio manager at Advisors Asset Management, writes that this fear is "irrational." Citing a survey by Bank of America he points out that year-to-date defaults through Nov. 26th stood at $2.47 billion, compared with $3.81 billion for all of 2012.¬† "According to those numbers, the municipal market would need a 54% increase in its current total in the last month of the year just to match last year's defaults," he writes. "Add on top of that fact that $2.47 billion is only 0.08% of the $3 trillion municipal market. Break the numbers down a little and only include investment grade securities, according to a study done by BNY Mellon, the worst default rate they could for find is 0.30% and that is for BBB bonds after 10 years. Compare this default rate to similarly rated corporate bonds over the same timeframe at 4.74% and the fear seems unjustified." All this negative news has created a "massive buying opportunity," he writes saying that if rates do rise going forward, "the steepness of the yield curve can provide a cushion." There Is More Downside To Gold In 2014 (Societe Generale) Gold ETFs have seen the strongest outflows among all asset classes, writes Societe Generale's Patrick Legland in a note to clients. "Some gold investors have been forced to sell following the sharp fall in the gold price (amplified by margin call effects)," he writes. There are three negative factors that were in play in January and still hold true. 1. Stocks are still at historical lows relative to gold. 2. The U.S. economy is recovering. 3. Inflation is still under control. Moreover, now that the Fed has announced that it will taper its asset purchases to $75 billion a month, gold won't benefit from unlimited QE.¬† Legland and his team write that "despite the ongoing correction on gold, we still see further potential downside for next year." Societe Generale How Advisors Can Minimize The Impact Of Taxes On Gift Giving (The Wall Street Journal)  Towards the end of the year and around the holidays many wealthy individuals tend to donate large sums of money to the charities of their choice. But this is a time when advisors should start to think about how to "minimize the impact on taxes on their clients' portfolios and net worth," writes Peter Land, of New York-based HighTower in a Wall Street Journal column. One way to do that is by donating securities that have appreciated. "By donating stock that's up 50% from where you bought it, the donor avoids the capital gains tax and gets a full write off," writes Land. "The charity also avoids capital gains tax when they sell it, because of its 501(c)(3) status. The other thing that's appealing about this is that clients are not taking money out of their checkbook. Because they're taking this out of their investment portfolio, I think psychologically they don't see it as a lot of money." Stocks Are In A Big Breakout And Should Rise In 2014 (Business Insider) Bank of America's Michael Hartnett thinks that "policymakers slowly winning 'War against Deflation' ‚Ä¶bad for bonds‚Ä¶ good for stocks." "[The] end of World War I and World War II, and successful early-1980s 'war against inflation' caused [a] massive inflection point in interest rates and [a] big breakout in stocks. The same thing is happening now," Hartnett told Business Insider. "In the absence of higher inflation and/or lower earnings, stocks should be up again in 2014." Bank of America
APJapan Prime Minister Shinzo AbeIn the days before Christmas and New Year‚Äôs, when no one was supposed to pay attention, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, his ministers, and coalition partners agreed on a draft budget for fiscal 2014, which starts April 1. It‚Äôs a doozy. Instead of slowing down the fiscal fiasco engulfing Japan, Abenomics is speeding it up. Spending rises to a record ¬•95.9 trillion ($921 billion) ‚Äì a prevarication, but more on that later. Social security outlays increase 4.8% based on the costs incurred by the aging population. Defense, stirred up by thorny entanglements with China, rises 2.9%, a breath-taking jump in defense spending for Japan. And public spending for new bridges to nowhere, needless river embankments, and other worthy projects, some for the Tokyo Olympics, soars by 12.9% to nearly ¬•6 trillion. These endless fish-barrel projects have failed to cure the wheezing economy over the last two decades, but hey, that‚Äôs no reason to stop them now! They‚Äôre essential gifts for Japan Inc. and political cronies. So the hype apparatus kicked in and claimed with fanfare that the government would need to issue only ¬•41.25 trillion in new bonds, thus borrowing 43% of the total outlays, down from the current fiscal year‚Äôs ‚Äúinitial‚Äù budget, which had foreseen new bond issuance to cover 46% of total outlays. But the shenanigans rolled into this conclusion could take your breath away, if you still had any left, after looking at these numbers. Every year, the government passes between one and four ‚Äúsupplementary budgets,‚Äù or stimulus packages, paid for with borrowed money. For example, in the current fiscal year, the initial budget was ¬•92.6 trillion. After a ¬•10.3 trillion ‚Äúsupplementary budget‚Äù was tacked on, the first Abenomics budget hit a record ¬•102.9 trillion. Same thing in fiscal 2014. With an elegant Abenomics twist. A supplementary budget of ¬•5.5 trillion already made it through the system ‚Äì the Japanese don‚Äôt dilly-dally around with their stimulus packages. Ironically, it is supposed to counteract the impact of the consumption tax hike, effective April 1. Last time Japan jacked up the consumption tax, it triggered a buying spree beforehand and a long recession afterwards. This time, the tax hike is expected to extract ¬•4.5 trillion in revenue from the unwilling Japanese. All of it, plus ¬•1 trillion, will be paid to recipients of the ‚Äúsupplementary budget.‚Äù Robbing Peter to pay Paul. This ‚Äúsupplementary budget‚Äù of ¬•5.5 trillion and the initial budget of ¬•95.9 trillion bring total outlays to ¬•101.4 trillion. The elegant Abenomics twist? Timing has been re-engineered to where the supplementary spending is accounted for in fiscal 2014, but the bonds to pay for it are issued in the current fiscal year, which no one looks at anymore, and where they dissipate into oblivion. Abracadabra. Sudden signs of improvements! In reality, of the total outlays of ¬•101.4 trillion, part of it will be covered by tax revenues of an estimated ¬•50 trillion ‚Äì the highest since 2007, hallelujah. The rest, ¬≠¬•51.4 trillion, will be paid for with borrowed money.... 50.7% of every yen spent will be borrowed, not the ludicrous 43% the government is trying to get their holiday-bedazzled people and everyone else around the world to swallow. Worried, moi? Ha! The Bank of Japan will take care of it! In its perfectly orchestrated manner, the BOJ, at its board meeting just before the budget fiasco surfaced, affirmed its pledge to water down the yen 50% over two years by printing ¬•60 trillion to ¬•70 trillion per year and buying mostly government bonds with it. Out of the other side of its mouth, the BOJ keeps emphasizing relentlessly to an incredulous world that it is not, repeat not, monetizing the budget deficit in any way, shape, or form. It‚Äôs just conducting monetary policy or something. How stupid do they think we are? Very, apparently. Because the Bank of Japandemonium is not only monetizing the entire deficit, but also part of the existing debt. It should just come out and admit it. I would certainly respect a smidgen of rare honesty from a central bank. It could say, for example, that it‚Äôs going to monetize the deficit and the debt until much of the mountain of JGBs is securely piled up on its balance sheet. There, it can gradually go to hell because one way of dealing with it would be a controlled slow default under the guise of ‚Äúmonetary policy.‚Äù The goal would be to create as little havoc as possible while spreading the losses as widely as possible. The older generation, the assiduous savers that greatly benefited from the deficit-funded welfare system, would get hit the hardest. The BOJ should just come out and say that. It could simply admit what everyone already knows: after decades of living off borrowed money, and with still no plan in sight for addressing the problem, and no willingness by anyone to pay for more than half of what the government spends, there simply aren‚Äôt any good solutions left. And if that quadrillion yen in public debt ‚Äì which pension funds, banks, individuals, and mega-bondholders like government-owned Japan Post carry as assets on their books ‚Äì is in the process of getting watered down, so be it. To mollify our fears, it should further admit that, by buying every government bond that isn‚Äôt nailed down, it controls the entire JGB market, and it won‚Äôt allow yields to spike ‚Äì which is key; a spike in yields could topple its precarious construct in one fell swoop. Japan‚Äôs new economic religion of printing itself out of trouble works. For the elite. This is a lesson learned from the Fed. But how are workers and consumers faring? And by implication the real economy? Read.... This Inflation Is Supposed To Be GOOD For Japanese¬†Workers?
Sushi NakazawaGiven his rare four-star review of West Village sushi den Sushi Nakazawa earlier this month, it comes as no surprise that New York Times food critic Pete Wells declared it the best restaurant of 2013 in his year-end roundup for the newspaper. Daisuke Nakazawa, the prot√©g√© of Jiro Ono (the subject of¬†the documentary "Jiro Dreams of Sushi") opened the tiny restaurant earlier this year. "A meal at Mr. Nakazawa‚Äôs counter is a guided tour of the potential of simple seafood on rice to amaze," Wells wrote. "With subtle fine-tunings of temperature and seasoning, he can make a piece of sushi into the kind of sense-filling experience you wish could last and last."¬†¬† Other restaurants on Wells' year-end list included Greenwich Village red sauce joint Carbone; Betony, a spin-off from several alumni of Eleven Madison Park; and Uncle Boon's, a Thai restaurant in NoLiTa. You can find his full list here. Since reservations at Sushi Nakazawa are next-to-impossible to secure, we rounded up some mouthwatering Instagram pictures from the lucky few who have tried the omakase meal ($150 at the sushi bar, $120 in the dining room). Welcome to Sushi Nakazawa, the newest four-star restaurant in New York City. Let's take a look at the four-star sushi, shall we?      Sea urchins!  And here's that same sea urchin (uni) out of its spiky shell:     ¬†  His signature tamago, or Japanese omelette.      One last glimpse of the assortment at Sushi Nakazawa:   And dessert ‚Äî a yuzu sorbet with pomegranate. 
REUTERS/Scott OlsonTraders and clerks frantically signal trades in eurodollar futures at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange after the Federal Reserve announced a hike in interest rates, June 30, 1999.The most interesting question heading into last Wednesday's Federal Open Market Committee meeting ó at which the FOMC ended up announcing the first reduction in the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program ó was how the decision would affect short-term interest rates. Back in the pre-crisis days, moving short-term interest rates up and down was the standard tool that the Fed used to stimulate or cool down the economy. Short-term interest rate futures can be used as a proxy for the market's expectations of where policy rates ó e.g., the fed funds rate that the Fed manipulates to provide the economy with monetary stimulus ó will be in the future. Our favorite market to watch in order to gauge reactions to Fed policy is not the stock market, nor the Treasury market, nor gold. It's the eurodollar futures market, and in the last week we've been hammering away on the point that in every trading session since the FOMC decision, eurodollar futures have been selling off, forcing yields on those contracts higher. In other words, the eurodollar futures market keeps signaling that the date of the first Fed rate hike is getting closer and closer. Eurodollar contracts reflect the future expected yield on 3-month dollar deposits outside the United States (and therefore outside the Fed's purview as a regulatory body). These are useful to look at because they are much more liquid than fed funds futures. The sell-off and attendant rise in yields†in this market suggests that market participants are repricing expectations for when they expect the FOMC to first hike short-term interest rates from current levels between 0 and 0.25% ó where they've been pinned since the financial crisis ó as well as the speed at which the Committee will return short-term interest rates to more "normal" levels. The chart below shows recent changes in the eurodollar forward curve. The bright red line shows where the curve stands today. Yields are higher at almost any point along the curve today than they were a month ago (blue line), on December 18, when the FOMC announced tapering of QE (maroon line), or even yesterday (green line), before we got big upside surprises in November durable goods orders and new home sales data. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Thinkorswim) Keep an eye on this market. The curve will likely continue shifting to the left if the economy continues to improve faster than expected, implying faster rate hikes sooner and challenging the FOMC's pledge to keep policy rates low for another two years. That could be a recipe for market volatility in 2014. The big question, then, becomes: how far is the Fed going to let this run?
First, my confession Before this week, I had never watched Frank Capraís†Itís a Wonderful Life. I know I should not admit this in a public place. I know this will land me on the Un-American watch-list with the data-miners at the NSA faster than shouting my support for Al Qaeda in Times Square. But there it is, the cold truth.† I had never watched†Itís a Wonderful Life. Well, nothing unites the themes of Christmas and suffering bankers as well as this movie, so I sat down to watch it with my eight year-old this week. Little did I know I would soon be writing a blog post about a) Bank runs and b) The origins of Bankers Anonymous. ***SPOILER ALERT*** For other people who have never seen†Itís a Wonderful Life†(like me, living under a rock, clearly hating Americaís freedoms) I will divulge plot points of this movie thatís played constantly on TV since 1946.† Ok, thank you. ***END SPOILER ALERT*** Ready for snark I settled in to my couch with a bag full of Harry &amp; Davidís chocolate caramel popcorn (aka Yuppie Cracker Jack) in one hand, and a metaphorical pen full of snark on the other. †A syrupy-sweet movie about finance that everybody loves?† I knew I was going to hate it. The first scene certainly opens up the film to snark.† The starry night, with a couple of disembodied voices, looks worse than an iMovie my eight year-old would make on a bad day. With those kind of movie production values Iím going to slash through this movie faster than a pint of†dulce de leche†on a Friday night home alone. But then I started to relate to the George Bailey (Jimmy Stewart) character He doesnít dream of being a banker.† Heís eager to travel, to have adventures, to break away from his hometown. In fact, heís really not a good banker at all.† He is what I call ìimprovident and cheerful,î[1]†and runs the Bailey Building and Loan Association nearly into the ground a few times as a result. Baileyís also no saint.† When the ultra-capitalist Potter tempts him with a job offer to work for The Man, Bailey nearly goes for it.† Even knowing Potterís unethical behavior, Bailey wants more money to provide for his family and to gratify his ego. As a father and husband Bailey takes his blessings for granted.† He complains to his wife about his drafty old house, with a faulty wooden banister ornament.† He resents his young children for making demands on his time, or for practicing the piano loudly as he seeks peace and quiet at home. When the children in Baileyís household become especially annoying, I silently looked daggers at my eight year-old on the couch as if to say, ìSee how you are?î† She just smiled back sweetly and†continued making compound interest calculations†on her notepad.† (Good girl.) I sympathized with George Baileyís woes.† I also started to appreciate the movieís solid presentation of a few key banking concepts. Solid banking concepts ñ fractional reserve lending and bank runs A) Fractional Reserve Lending In the first bank run on the Bailey Building and Loan Association ñ on the eve of George Baileyís honeymoon ñ we learn†the basics of fractional reserve lending. Banks never actually hold your money in a vault, as George Bailey explains, but rather they lend it out to others. One householdís deposits, Bailey explains to his frightened customers, are lent as a mortgage for ìJoeís house, thatís right next yours, and the Kennedy house, and Mrs. Maklinís house, and a hundred others.î† At any given moment, most deposits do not remain in the bank, or even in liquid securities or cash.† Instead, banks these days hold about 8 to 10% of their total funds in accessible funds, and try to loan the rest out at a profit. Because all banks, just like the Bailey Building and Loan Association, operate on a fractional reserve lending policy, all banks also run the risk of a bank run.[2] B) Bank Runs When Potter calls in a large loan, and probably as a result of a Potter whispering campaign, the people of Bedford Falls lose confidence in Baileyís bank.† When the depositors of the Bailey Building and Loan Association fear for their accounts, they demand their money in full, an impossibility for a fractional reserve lending bank that isnít covered by depositorís insurance. We get a sense for the panic that sets in when people lose confidence in fractional reserve lending.† Banks that are not too big to fail simply cannot meet the demands of depositors if they all want cash returned at the same time. Rock Bottom George Baileyís faults warmed me up, the accurate banking concepts earned my trust, and then Bailey hit rock bottom and I am completely capturedÖ On Christmas Eve morning, the unthinkable happens.† Baileyís uncle misplaces $8,000 just as the bank examiner for the Bailey Building and Loan Association arrives.† The bank, always thin on capital, will go under without the $8,000.† Baileyís nemesis Potter ñ who surreptitiously pocketed the money himself ñ alerts authorities to the missing money, leading to a warrant for Baileyís arrest. The stress breaks Bailey, pushing him to reject his family, drink too much, crash his car, and contemplate suicide. Suddenly I realize that I am George Bailey. My George Bailey moment(s) My own ëbank runí and business failure played out over a longer period of time than one night, from the Fall of 2008 until the end of 2011. Up until this point with Bankers Anonymous I havenít wanted to share the story of my investment business, nor the origins of this blog, because nobody cares for a banker pity-party.† Many people suffered far more than me in the Great Recession, and I cannot compare my own losses to theirs.† But the pop-culture phenomenon of†Itís a Wonderful Life†ñ the entire plot hinges on a banker pity-party! ñ encourages me to at least share my story. I started my investment company in 2004, and it began to grow in earnest in 2006.† When the jitters of the Summer 2008 turned into the wholesale panic of the Fall of 2008, a majority of my investors requested their money returned. Two of my institutional investors, both ìFund of Fundsî firms[3]†requested their entire investment back, each request within a week of each other.† It turns out, both Fund of Funds clients had been wiped out of capital by redemption requests from their own investors.† Simultaneously, a few of my early individual investors also asked for capital returned in the Fall of 2008. Although I didnít operate a bank, my nascent fund was hit by a ìbank runî just the same.† Too many folks needing their money back all at once meant that other investors demanded†their†money back, just to avoid being left holding the bag.† Just as depositors do with the Bailey Building and Loan Association. My remaining investors, many of whom were friends or family, didnít ask out of the †fund, either out of their belief in me or an unwillingness to abandon a sinking ship. †But by hanging on to these remaining investors I would end up leaving them with illiquid pieces of a dying fund.† By the end of 2008 I realized that to be fair I needed to return money to everyone in the fund at the same time. The fund manager or banker, subject to a bank run from his investors, rarely seems like a sympathetic character in popular culture.† If I hadnít lived it myself, I could easily think that the person unable to meet immediate demands for cash was irresponsible with money, or an idiot, or a crook. Well, Iím none of these things. And George Baileyís predicament hit home for me. Unlike George Bailey, I couldnít stop the bank run. Not suicide, but a kind of living death I never spent that a George Bailey Christmas Eve getting drunk, crashing my car, and looking over a bridge contemplating the end. †Iím relatively lucky that Iím not really wired like that. Instead, I spent three years, from 2008 to 2011, thinking about my own business failure. †First, I made the phone calls to say that you could not have all your money back right away. †Later, I made the phone calls and wrote the letters to say that you should expect losses now, and your money remains at risk of more losses over time. †I liquidated assets as best I could, knowing the range of outcomes was between mildly crappy and terrible, depending on how well I did. †Three years of phone calls and letters to people who had believed in me, keeping them updated on my attempt to turn a smelly dung heap into a useful compost pile. Three years, walking around, feeling like an fool. A few examples of my mindset Just about every waking hour, and many hours asleep, I returned to the ëbank runí on my fund, and the subsequent losses for investors, and the loss of my entrepreneurial dream. Having dinner with my wife. †How do I look my investors in the eye again? Playing with my growing daughter or holding my newborn. †I canít believe I had to shut down the fund. †How could I have fucked it up so badly? Moving to a new city, finding a wonderful home and neighborhood with compatible friends. †Why is a smart guy like me so stupid? †Do they know what a fucking failure I am?† The important thing, of course, is to not let anyone in on my failure. What do you do for a living? Whenever any new acquaintances asked me during those three years about what I did for a living, I would mumble something vague about ëwinding down my fund, trying to figure out the next step.í† Something in my tone no doubt implied I didnít seek any follow-up questions.† My mysteriousness probably gave the mistaken impression that I had plenty of wealth and didnít really worry about ëworking for a living.í[4] On the contrary, I obsessed about ëworking for a living.í† How come I failed to provide for my family?† What could I possibly do next?† I was too gun-shy to start another investment company.† Yet I found facile objections to all other professional directions as well. Occasionally someone close to me would point out how blessed my life seemed.† I would smile and try to nod in agreement, but inside I certainly didnít feel blessed.††What about my business failure?† Arenít you forgetting about that?† Because Iím not. An inscription to make me weep At the end of the movie, George Baileyís guardian angel Clarence gives a book to Bailey, with the inscription: Remember no man is a failure who has friends. Georgeís wife Mary saves him by appealing to the townspeople of Bedford Falls.† Remind George of your friendship, she urges, and they bail him out financially, as well as spiritually, expressing their love for him on Christmas Eve. At that point in the movie, cynical me is blinking back tears and snuggling closer to my eight year-old. After watching me dwell daily, even hourly, on my business failure for three years, my wife took a page from the Mary Bailey strategic playbook. For my fortieth birthday she asked my closest friends and family to each write a letter expressing appreciation for my friendship.† The result, presented to me in 2012, stunned me. One after another[5]†after another[6]†after another[7]†stunned me with love[8]†and thoughtfulness.[9]† You mean, despite my failure, I am worthy of love? Itís A Wonderful Life†captures this kind of moment on film. These lettersí effect on me First, of course, waterworks.† Stomach-churning, ear-roaring, and eyesocket-wringing tears. Second, I had the letters bound into a book.† Whatís the one physical possession I would grab and take underground with me when the zombie apocalypse begins?† This book. Third, I met with a†web-designer friend†that week about starting a blog called Bankers Anonymous. Discovering the Bankers Anonymous motto At the beginning of the first bank run, as he steels himself to save the Bailey Building and Loan Association for the first time, George Bailey glances at a picture of his father. †An inscription next to his fatherís photograph reads: All that you take with you is that which youíve given away. Well, I started Bankers Anonymous eighteen months ago to try to give away some financial knowledge I have gained. Engaging in a dialogue about finance seems the best way I can think of for preventing the next great bank run, the next Big Crash.† If we better understand Wall Street and how itís regulated, maybe we wonít repeat the same errors. If we better understand our own personal financial situations, maybe our households wonít be so devastated by the next Great Recession. Those ideas are what Iíve been trying to give away, and in the process Iíve been able to take with me so much.† Every time a reader comments on my posts or sends an encouraging email, I feel the truth of that inscription at the Bailey Building and Loan Association. If you celebrate Christmas, and you find yourself begrudging the trip to the mall to acquire an ugly tie for your colleague or the must-have Skanx doll for your pre-teen daughter, all I can suggest is a return to that inscription from†Itís a Wonderful Life. ìAll that you take with you is that which youíve given away.î Peace to All. † [1]†Bonus points to anyone who recognizes where that phrase ìimprovident and cheerfulî comes from ñ without referencing The Google, of course.† If you need a hint,†Iíve linked to the book here. [2]†All banks except banks covered by deposit insurance such as provided by the FDIC in the United States.† But that coverage did not come into effect until June 1933, presumably after the scene of the initial bank run in†Itís a Wonderful Life, which probably takes place in 1932 or early 1933. [3]†A ìFund of Fundsî pools together investors such as Endowments or Foundations or individuals and in turn allocates their capital to managers like me.† The problem is, and was, that the Fund of Funds do not control their own capital.† When the original endowment, foundation, or individuals asks for money back, the Fund of Funds requests a redemption from the manager.† See related podcast/post ìWhat the $%&amp; is a Fund of Funds?î [4]†Nope, not wealthy.† The reality is that my wife is a doctor, and we live in a city thatís affordable on one good salary. [5]†ìYouíve made it easy when Iíve needed something and returned the favor of needing things from me, which is no small thing.î [6]†ìYou and your family make me very very happy, and I know you will do so until I die.î [7]†ìYou are like a brother to me.î [8]†ìYou have at age 40 what people of my generation traditionally have worked for their whole lives.î [9]†ìGive yourself the gift of being able to fail and struggle and shine and succeed, often simultaneously.î Post read (92) times. Thanks for visiting Bankers Anonymous. Be sure to†sign-up for my newsletter†so you never miss what's happening on my site. You can also connect with me on†Facebook†and†Twitter†to keep the conversation going. Tags:†its a wonderful life,†movie review,†origin story - See more at: http://www.bankers-anonymous.com/blog/its-a-wonderful-life-a-failed-banker-origin-story/#sthash.VXnV8aua.dpuf
You‚Äôre off to the annual Christmas dinner party hosted by your boss and his wife, and agonising over a tributary bottle of wine. What do you choose? Tried-and-tested Bordeaux? A top-scoring Ch√¢teau Latour 2009 perhaps? Or a bottle of South Australian Wolf Blass? Chances are you go for the safe bet. But if your boss knows anything about quality and value for money, he should promote you just for bringing the latter. According to the results of the 2013 Master Blend Classification blind-tasting event, judged by 30 of the world‚Äôs most-respected wine critics, Australian fine wine is now officially just as good as French. The competition pitted 30 of the world‚Äôs leading Cabernet Sauvignon-based blends at three separate events held in Montreal, London and Melbourne. The results were surprising. After blind-tasting 900 glasses, four joint winners were drawn: three Bordeaux and one Australian wine, each scoring an average of 92/100 points. The top-ranking wines were: Ch√¢teau L√©oville-Las Cases 2009, a second-growth Bordeaux; Ch√¢teau Latour 2009, a first-growth Bordeaux; Ch√¢teau Ducru-Beaucaillou 2009, also a second-growth Bordeaux; and, in equal ranking, the Wolf Blass Black Label 2009 from South Australia. What distinguished the wines was their price. The cheapest Bordeaux at A$575 is quadruple the price of the Wolf Blass at A$139. By comparison, the Latour would set you back by A$2,400, 17 times more expensive than its Antipodean rival; while the Ch√¢teau L√©oville-Las Cases is A$675.¬† Of course, when it comes to the price of fine wine, taste is not the only determining factor. The world‚Äôs best vintages are increasingly being used as a safe-haven investment, particularly in fine-wine‚Äôs fastest-growing market: China. And Old World wines have a better record than New World vintages when it comes to tracking their potential for yield. Debra Meiburg, an award-winning Master of Wine, commented that the price difference between the Australian and French winners was drastic, but it comes from more than just snob factor. ‚ÄúHowever unreasonable the price disparity may seem, much of it stems from the difference between the wines‚Äô value as economic assets rather than as vehicles of pleasure. The long track record that Bordeaux has as [making for] collectable and tradable assets simply hasn't been achieved yet in the New World; the fact that these wines have achieved the same score in a blind tasting is validation of the quality of Australian wine, but sadly doesn‚Äôt have much to do with their economic value.‚Äù Canny investors may jump at the chance to buy Australian fine wine before the records are set and headlines are printed. The French may have mastered ‚ÄòLa Vie En Rose‚Äô, but those red-blooded Aussies are the ones to watch.¬†
Some of these predictions are coming from noted deflationists or disinflationists like David Rosenberg (see here).¬†¬†¬† Some of these inflation predictions are coming from financial bloggers who you wouldn‚Äôt necessarily expect to see this from (see here and here).¬† The Wall Street consensus economic forecast for 2014 is 2.2%, which is certainly not high, but still well above the current readings of 1.2%.¬† Jan Hatzius of Goldman Sachs predicts 2% inflation in 2014, while some firms predict higher levels (like UBS who is predicting 2.5% inflation).¬†¬† Again, not exactly high, but certainly higher. The rationale for this thinking tends to revolve around the following ideas: Before I outline my thoughts on this I‚Äôd like to open the floor up to the smart readers here.¬† What are your thoughts on inflation in 2014?¬† And please remember ‚Äì hyperinflation predictions will be harshly reprimanded.¬† Hyperinflation predictions based on QE will put the reader at risk of eternal damnation.¬† And hyperinflation predictions using Zimbabwe or Weimar as a comparison will require an accompanying address so I can locate the reader and shake some sense into you.
Win McNamee / Getty Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on Monday hinted at "big plans for 2014" in an end-of-the-year fundraising pitch to supporters of the Clinton Foundation, the†Washington Post reported.In an email to supporters of the family's charitable foundation, Clinton wrote that her husband, former President Bill Clinton, would match all donations up to Dec. 31.ìWe have big plans for 2014,î Clinton wrote in the email, as quoted by the Washington Post. The email detailed the charitable foundation's priorities, including initiatives for education, women's equality, and job skills development.In a similar vein, Clinton†told ABC's Barbara Walters†last week that the country's economic concerns were more pressing to her than the prospect of running for higher office. But a final decision on launching a presidential run was forthcoming in the new year, she said."I will look carefully at what I think I can do and make that decision sometime next year," Clinton said.
Google MapsThe San Remo building on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.Hedge-funder Robert W. Wilson jumped to his death yesterday from the 16th floor of his Upper West Side apartment, reports the New York Post. He was 86. Sources told the Post that Wilson, who left a note before jumping at 11:00 a.m. on Monday, suffered a stroke a few months prior. Wilson was relatively low profile, but amassed an $800 million fortune by the year 2000, which he then proceeded to donate away (especially to environmental and conservation efforts). He had started his firm, Wilson Associates, with $15,000.¬† Friends of Wilson told the post it was his ambition to give away most of his wealth before he died, but he still had about $100 million to go. Read the full report at the Post ¬ª
Citi tracks a measure known as the "economic surprise index" for various locales, which shows how economic data are progressing relative to the consensus forecasts of market economists. From Bloomberg: The Citigroup Economic Surprise Indices are objective and quantitative measures of economic news. They are defined as weighted historical standard deviations of data surprises (actual releases vs Bloomberg survey median). A positive reading of the Economic Surprise Index suggests that economic releases have on balance [been] beating consensus. The indices are calculated daily in a rolling three-month window. The weights of economic indicators are derived from relative high-frequency spot FX impacts of 1 standard deviation data surprises. The indices also employ a time decay function to replicate the limited memory of markets. So, what are the surprise indices saying right now? The stories will probably sound familiar. In the United States, positive economic data surprises have surged into positive territory and now stand near one-year highs. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) The eurozone surprise index has been hovering right around zero, suggesting that economic data are coming in exactly as expected. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) Economic data in China are still coming in slightly above expectations, though upside surprises are not as big as they were a few months ago. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) Japan's surprise index shows that after a bit of a mid-year Abenomics hangover, economists have re-calibrated expectations, and now economic data are surprising slightly to the upside. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, (data from Bloomberg) Economic data surprises in emerging markets have, in aggregate, been negative basically all year. They have rebounded a bit recently, but still remain in the deepest negative territory of all of the surprise indices. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)
via Sotheby's International RealtyThe penthouse of New York City's Pierre Hotel hit the market for a record $125 million in late April. But the property, which belonged to late investor Martin Zweig,†has yet to find a buyer, and recently had its price slashed by 24% to $95 million, according to The New York Daily News. Zweig initially listed the apartment for $70 million in 2007 but later pulled the listing; he died in February. The apartment encompasses three floors and was originally the hotel's ballroom. The 16-room spread is listed with Sotheby's International Realty.
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriBallerinas from the New York Ballet's production of 'The Nutcracker' tour the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York, December 24, 2013.It's another all-time high for the U.S. stock market. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Small and independent American craft breweries added $33.9 billion to the U.S. economy in 2012, according to a new report from the Brewers Association. California, Texas, New York, Pennsylvania, and Colorado made the largest economic contribution overall. On a per capita level, Oregon was the best state, at $448.56 a person, followed by Colorado, Vermont, Maine, and Montana. "The figure is derived from the total impact of beer brewed by craft brewers as it moves through the three-tier system (breweries, wholesalers and retailers), as well as all non-beer products that brewpub restaurants sell," according to the report. Here's the state-by-state breakdown (via AEI's Mark Perry):¬† Brewers Association
Hundreds of thousands of Toronto residents were left in the dark, and much of Eastern Canada remains covered in ice after a massive winter storm swept through Ontario and Quebec over the weekend.¬† Eleven fatalities were also reported, according to the BBC. Bloomberg says the storm dented holiday shopping in downtown Toronto, but¬†The Wall Street Journal's David George-Cosh quotes a note from CIBC's Benjamin Tal saying it won't have much of an economic impact. ‚ÄúWe do not view this storm as a major economic event and at most it will work to marginally impact the timing of economic activity in the coming weeks,‚Äù he said. But it's making for some interesting scenes ‚Äî check it out: This is the most Canadian thing ever to happen. #darkTO #icestorm2013 pic.twitter.com/JIkPkdAWTS People literally skating on Canadian streets to get around #icestorm2013 #icestorm #quebec #ontario pic.twitter.com/vGb2QxvZJU REUTERS/Mathieu BelangerA woman has her hair blown by the wind during a snowstorm in Quebec City December 22, 2013.REUTERS/Gary HershornBerries are encrusted in ice as a man takes pictures of the tree during an ice storm in Toronto, December 22, 2013.REUTERS/Christinne Muschi An apple topped with snow hangs on a tree on the 430-acre apple orchard and cidery at Domaine Pinnacle in Frelighsburg, Quebec, December 16, 2013. REUTERS/Hyungwon KangIcicles hang from a signal light and a street sign after freezing rain in Toronto, Ontario December 22, 2013. Thousands of households are without power in the Greater Toronto area following an overnight ice storm. REUTERS/Hyungwon Kang A bicycle is covered with ice after freezing rain in Toronto, Ontario December 22, 2013. Thousands of households are without power in the Greater Toronto area following an overnight ice storm.REUTERS/Chris HelgrenA layer of ice coats the leaf of a Japanese maple tree after an ice storm in Toronto December 22, 2013. ¬†
Kin Cheung / APActress Zhao Wei appears at a pro-government rally in Hong Kong. THE buildings on the studio lot of China Film Group, a vast government-owned company, are grey, windowless and identical. The air, even 20km outside Beijing, is heavy with pollution. Inside, Jiang Wen is filming his newest movie, "Gone with the Bullets", about a dance competition in 1920s Shanghai. He is standing on a stage with sequined dancers. Around 400 extras in black tie look on from a Gaudiesque theatre, built for the shoot. Mr Jiang, in a grey T-shirt and 3D glasses, scurries up and down the stage giving directions. Mr Jiang has been known to hold up a white board with "Sexy" written in red marker pen, and show the dancers how it should be done. Cameras swivel around the dancers, capturing their gyrations and the audience's reaction. Mr Jiang, an actor as well as a director, is one of the stars of China's film business. His 2010 movie, "Let the Bullets Fly", attempted to invent a new genre: the Chinese Western. It was about a bandit who poses as the mayor of a remote Chinese town. The government did not appreciate its portrayal of an illegitimate leader gulling the masses, but the film was wildly popular. If everything goes smoothly "Gone with the Bullets", which is being shot in 3D, will open in theatres in China and around the world by the end of 2014. In terms of cost, the film is pushing the boundaries. It has a budget of around $50m, a princely sum by Chinese movie-making standards. A Broadway choreographer and American dancers have been brought in. On stage right near the dressing rooms, Keith Collea, an American 3D expert, sits in the dark watching his screens. "China is where it's at," he says. Last year China overtook Japan to become the second-largest film market after America, with box-office receipts of around 17 billion yuan ($2.8 billion). Some people think it will be the world's biggest in five years' time. Young people, flush with cash, are eager to get out of the house. Films have become central to Chinese courtship and consumption. Enormous IMAX screens and 3D films are the rage, and in big cities carry a similar ticket price to America. Screens are flickering on around the country. More than ten a day were erected in 2012; today there are around 18,000, more than four times the number five years ago. "Journey to the West", an adventure film released in 2013, has grossed more than 1.2 billion yuan ($205m). Most Chinese movies lose money: only around a quarter make it into theatres, and piracy means there is no legitimate DVD market. But then many films in Hollywood and elsewhere are unprofitable these days: according to a report by the British Film Institute earlier this month, only 7% of British films turn a profit. Chinese people like films and they like to gamble, so money is racing into the movie business. In September, for instance, Wang Jianlin, China's richest man, announced he would build the world's largest film-studio complex, for an estimated $8.2 billion, in Qingdao. Hollywood is also trying to push in. Only 34 big-budget films, and a handful of independent foreign ones, are allowed into China each year, and foreign producers are allowed to keep only a small share--usually less than 25%--of box-office revenues. Even so, foreigners are desperate to get their product into China. Sometimes films are specially adapted for the market: four extra minutes of footage, featuring Chinese actors, were added to the Chinese version of "Iron Man 3", made by Disney's Marvel. To gain a foothold in China, Hollywood studios are helping finance films or co-producing them. Mr Jiang's "Gone with the Bullets" has backing from Sony, a Hollywood studio; DreamWorks, which made cartoon hits like "Shrek", has set up Oriental Dreamworks, a joint venture with Shanghai Media Group, a state-owned studio, and two other firms, to make animated films for the Chinese market. There are risks to working in China as Relativity Media, a Hollywood studio, discovered in 2011. It got flak from the Western press for shooting a movie in Linyi, an ambitious city in Shandong province, when Chen Guangcheng, a well-known human-rights activist, was being held under house arrest in the city. But the lure of the Chinese market tends to outweigh reputational risk, and Relativity is financing a new film located in the city of Linyi (see box). American influence in China's film business is nothing new. "Everything we learned, we learned from Hollywood," says Yu Dong, the boss of Bona Film Group, one of China's largest independent studios. In some ways China's movie industry resembles 1930s Hollywood, when studios controlled all business lines--from talent to production to theatres--before a 1948 Supreme Court ruling forced them to divest. In China, this is called "being a dragon from head to tail". Huayi Brothers, one of China's largest studios, whose name evokes the fraternal Warners, oversees actors, production, distribution and cinemas. Yet the differences are more obvious than the similarities. China's film industry lacks Hollywood's technical sophistication. Even costly Chinese movies often look amateurish. "I fell asleep," confesses a woman when the lights come on at a Beijing cineplex. She had left work a few minutes early to catch a late afternoon screening of "Young Detective Dee: Rise of the Sea Dragon" in 3D. During some scenes the special effects looked like a 1990s video game. The plot and dialogue were not much slicker. China's movie business also lacks Tinseltown's glamour. Mr Yu's small office is on the 18th floor of a dingy Beijing tower block above a busy road. Smoke from his cigarettes fills the air; honks rise from the street below. There is no Hollywood-style party scene because stars tend to keep out of polluted Beijing. They treat club openings as work events and expect to get paid to turn up. But the big difference is in the location of power. In America power lies with the studios; in China with the state. The government controls which films are made and has a hand in every aspect of the film business, from production to exhibition. China Film Group produces movies and distributes Hollywood and Chinese films. The government rewards independent producers for making films it approves of--Desen International Media, a production company, received a bonus of 3m yuan for "Full Circle", which promoted filial piety, for instance--and blocks Hollywood films during national holidays, to help Chinese ones. Hollywood has always been the world's dream-maker, but China's government wants the country to make its own. A communiquÈ released after the Central Committee meeting of the Chinese Communist Party in 2011 announced that "it is a pressing task to increase the state's cultural soft power" and to "build our country into a socialist cultural superpower". When Shanghai Media Group signed its deal with DreamWorks last year, Xi Jinping, then vice-president and now president, attended the ceremony in Los Angeles. The government has twin ambitions in fostering the film industry, one domestic and one global. At home, it wants people to see films that will inculcate Chinese values and culture. And it wants them to go voluntarily: the party used to force people to watch propaganda films, but even it saw that this was like winning an ice-skating medal after beating up the competition with a bat. Abroad, the government wants to spread a more attractive image of the country. Hosting the Olympics was one attempt at this; but film premieres can happen more often. Yet China punches well below its weight in the film world: it has won the Palme d'Or at Cannes only once, 20 years ago, for Chen Kaige's "Farewell My Concubine"--which was banned in China at the time. The government wants to change that, and has recently helped organise events to showcase Chinese films in places as diverse as Fiji, Cambodia and New York. As with the Olympics, the government does not feel comfortable leaving creative elements to chance. Except during the 1930s, when China had a thriving independent film industry centred in Shanghai and operating with relatively little interference, the political climate has defined and confined its films. Private studios were dissolved after the Japanese occupied Shanghai in 1937. When the Communist Party came to power in 1949, it recognised that movies could be useful. Government studios made films packed with peasants and propaganda, and wheeled mobile projectors to rural areas to ensure they reached millions. Tickets were given out at work, and everybody had to attend. Independent movies started again in the 1970s, and then sputtered along. Now a few independent studios operate within the constraints of a state-controlled system. "The Chinese producer is the best producer in the world," claims Mr Yu. "He has to negotiate the Chinese government and the market." China does not have a sex-and-violence ratings system of the sort that operates in most of the rest of the world to protect children and young people, but films cannot be screened until they have been signed off by censors at the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television. Film-makers must submit a draft of the script in advance of shooting, and later a final cut of the film. The censorship board, which has around three dozen members, objects to violence, sex, drugs and anything critical of the party, either explicitly or implicitly--in other words, every ingredient that might be used to fill seats. Success comes from predicting what censors will object to, and writing scripts in such a way that they do not. Overt political commentary is unacceptable; that is probably why so many films are set in the past. Censors often ask for multiple script revisions before giving the go-ahead, and, after seeing the final cut, request that scenes be eliminated. Film-makers' reactions to these restrictions range from acceptance to outrage. Zhao Wei, a famous actress and the director of "So Young", a drama about college in the 1990s that came out this year, had to axe a masturbation scene. She considers herself lucky: movies can be held up for years. In April the China Film Directors' Guild honoured Feng Xiaogang, a director. In his acceptance speech he complained about the "torment" of censorship. Even when films have been given a green light, censors sometimes change their minds. Quentin Tarantino's "Django Unchained" was pulled from theatres after a few days. While producers in Hollywood try to drum up as much interest as possible in their films, those in China keep them quiet, so as not to pique censors' interest or suspicion. Your correspondent visited the set of a movie that had gone through around 20 versions of the script before it was approved. The censors signed off on it only after a sympathetic communist hero was written in. A crew member confided that the censors were still going through the script, even though shooting had begun, and were trying to get the final, climactic scene eliminated. When some of the producers heard a journalist had been on set, they were horrified, lest the movie's name be printed. Some say that the censors are loosening up a bit. A racy scene was cut from "So Young", for example, but several abortions were left in. "No Man's Land", a sinister thriller, was held up for more than two years because censors thought it was "too dark" and "too distant from real life". But after what are believed to be significant modifications, it was released in early December. "Hunger Games: Catching Fire"--this autumn's Hollywood blockbuster, in which a totalitarian regime sacrifices its young for the entertainment of the masses--was, to general astonishment, screened in Chinese cinemas. Popular online video sites, such as Youku, host original movies, called "microfilms", which are not subject to the same censorship process, but this is probably an oversight rather than progress. The government uses subsidy as well as censorship to get the kind of films it wants made. It forks out increasing sums for propaganda films, which account for an estimated 10% of movies being made each year. "The Founding of a Republic", a 2009 film celebrating the 60th anniversary of the People's Republic of China, was a glossy Hollywood-style epic featuring so many stars that some had to be cut out of the final version. Yet for all its efforts, the government is not really getting what it wants from its film industry. Far from inculcating the masses with Chinese culture and values the party approves of, successful films are often adaptations of Hollywood hits. "Lost in Thailand", a comedy about male friends reminiscent of Hollywood's "The Hangover", did well last year, as did "Tiny Times", a film about four materialistic friends in Shanghai and their luxurious lifestyle, which has been described as a cross between "The Devil Wears Prada" and "Sex and the City" (without the sex). A saccharine tribute to materialism, "Tiny Times" did particularly well in smaller, less-developed "tier 3" and "tier 4" cities, whose citizens aspire to be rich and fashionable but want to watch characters that feel home-grown. Ann An of Desen International Media, one of the producers, says the film appealed to stressed, overworked audiences. "We provided a two-hour dream for them." A film-maker says the head of the censorship board has privately described the Chinese films being made today as "trashy". Nor do Chinese movies travel well. "Lost in Thailand" grossed around $192m in China, but a mere $60,000 in America. Even audiences in Taiwan and Hong Kong do not have much interest in mainland films. The plots tend to be blunt and the acting melodramatic. "Flowers of War", a costly movie about the Nanjing Massacre starring a Hollywood actor, Christian Bale, was intended to go global. But it fell flat outside China and failed to win the awards or critical acclaim officials had been hoping for. Too many films are both too foreign and too familiar for audiences abroad: "Finding Mr. Right", for instance, is a romantic comedy about a woman who goes to Seattle at the behest of her married lover to give birth to their baby, and finds love there. The story feels relevant and modern to Chinese audiences, but to foreign ones it has no surprises and too many echoes of "Sleepless in Seattle", a Hollywood classic. A lighter touch by the censors might produce films that were more authentically Chinese and artistically interesting. It would also avoid embarrassing incidents. The Chinese film that has garnered most attention in the West lately is "A Touch of Sin" by Jia Zhangke--a gloomy art-house portrayal of modern China that won the award for best screenplay at Cannes this year. The government has banned it from cinemas and journalists from interviewing Mr Jia. More Westerners have probably seen reports of this in recent months than have watched a Chinese film. The head of the censorship board has privately described the films being made today as "trashy" † Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
2013 was about slow but accelerating economic growth in America as consumers brushed off tax hikes, sequestration, a government shutdown, and broad fiscal brinksmanship. Home prices continued to rebound and spending rose as unemployment rates dropped and people borrowed more. In fact the consumer is so strong that economists see 4% GDP growth in Q4. And just today we learned that business investment was accelerating. Unfortunately, there is one corner of the economy that is actually getting worse. And it's the sub-economy populated by college grads. While the unemployment rate for those with college degrees continues to be much lower than for those without, that gap has been narrowing sharply. College grads are among those falling out of the labor force the fastest. And as college tuition and fees inflate like crazy, real earnings for grads are actually falling. Unable to make payments on their crushing student loan debts, grads of increasingly gone delinquent on their obligations. "Delinquencies have trended lower across nearly every type of consumer credit category," wrote economists from Wells Fargo Securities. "The one exception to this has been the ongoing rise in student loan delinquencies. The continued upward trend is reflective of the unique characteristics of the student loan marketósuch as the lack of credit history for most borrowers and the government sector being the dominant provideróas well as the weak recovery in jobs and wages for younger workers that have left increasingly large debt burdens more difficult to bear." Wells Fargo, Business Insider
REUTERS/Gary CameronThe engine compartment of a 1957 Chevrolet Corvette"The economy is really cranking now," Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey wrote clients this morning. "Firing on all cylinders, consumer spending, and now business capital spending." As Americans gear up for the holidays, durable goods orders absolutely obliterated economist expectations.  "Core capex" ‚Äî orders of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft ‚Äì spiked 4.5%, well above the consensus estimate of 0.7%. This is a great sign for business investment.  Here's Rupkey: Business spending on equipment, capex, is a small part of the economy 5 or 6%, but it is this equipment that enables companies to meet consumer demand for their products and services so it is absolutely a critical element for growth. ¬†It is the fuel the economy needs to keep moving higher. ¬†Our proxy for business capex in the durable goods report is nondefense capital goods orders ex-aircraft. ¬†Today these orders jumped 4.5% in November and are now less than one-tenth percent away from the record high made in June. ¬†The Fed Chairman told the press conference last week that investment spending was weaker than they would like. ¬†Well it isn‚Äôt weak anymore if it is just shy of all-time record highs. ¬†This economy is cruising in 5th gear; in the 5th year of expansion from the end of the recession, could it be anything but? While some of this core capex may be motivated by the coming expiration of certain tax credits, it nevertheless is a sign of growth. This comes after yesterday's¬†strong consumer spending report, which spurred Rupkey to¬†revise his shop's fourth quarter GDP figure to a bullish 3.2%.
The Philadelphia Fed has just released November data updating its monthly series of coincident indices for the 50 U.S. states. The data, visualized in the map below, show that only three states are contracting: Alaska, Ohio, and Wyoming. Here's what goes into the indices: The coincident indexes combine four state-level indicators to summarize current economic conditions in a single statistic. The four state-level variables in each coincident index are nonfarm payroll employment, average hours worked in manufacturing, the unemployment rate, and wage and salary disbursements deflated by the consumer price index (U.S. city average). The trend for each state‚Äôs index is set to the trend of its gross domestic product (GDP), so long-term growth in the state‚Äôs index matches long-term growth in its GDP. A dynamic single-factor model is used to create the state indexes. James Stock and Mark Watson developed the basic model for constructing a coincident index for the U.S. Theodore Crone and Alan Clayton-Matthews adapted the basic model for the states. The method involves a system of five major equations: one equation for each input variable and one equation for an underlying (latent) factor that is reflected in each of the indicator (input) variables. The underlying factor represents the state coincident index. The model and the input variables are consistent across the 50 states, so the state indexes are comparable to one another. Philadelphia Fed
Flickr / Federal ReserveThe Marriner S. Eccles Building, completed in 1937 and dedicated to former Chairman Eccles in 1982.One hundred years ago, on Dec. 23, 1913, the Federal Reserve Act was signed into law, giving the United States exactly what it didn't need: a central bank. Americans had gone without one since the 1836 expiration of the charter of the Second Bank of the United States, which Andrew Jackson famously refused to renew. Not to be a party pooper, but as this dubious centennial is observed, we should ask ourselves: Has the Fed been friend or foe to growth and prosperity? According to the standard historical narrative, the U.S. learned a painful lesson in the Panic of 1907 that a "lender of last resort" was necessary lest the financial sector be at the mercy of private capitalists such as J.P. Morgan. A central bank‚Äîthe¬†Federal Reserve‚Äîwas supposed to provide an "elastic currency" that would expand and contract with the needs of trade, and that could rescue solvent but illiquid firms by providing liquidity when other institutions couldn't or wouldn't. If that's the case, then the Fed has obviously failed in its mission of preventing crippling financial panics. The early years of the Great Depression‚Äîstarting with a stock market crash that arrived a full 15 years after the Fed opened its doors‚Äîsaw far more turmoil than anything in the pre-Fed days, with some 4,000 commercial banks failing in 1933 alone. (Read more:¬†Why America needs big banks: Dick Bove) A typical defense acknowledges that the Fed botched its job during the Great Depression, but once the wise regulations of the New Deal were put into place and academic economists realized just what had gone wrong, it was relatively smooth sailing from that point forward. It would be silly, these apologists argue, to question the advantage of central banking now that we have learned so many painful lessons, lessons that Fed officials take into account when making policy decisions. What about the excruciating pain of the recent past, dubbed the Great Recession of 2008-09? In the five years from 2008-12 almost 500 banks have failed. What would history need to look like for people to agree that the Fed has not done its job? But wait! The Fed is necessary to the promotion of stable economic growth‚Äîor so convention wisdom says. The idea here is that without a central bank, the economy would be plagued by wildly oscillating business cycles. The only hope is a "countercyclical policy" of raising interest rates to cool an overheating boom, and then slashing rates to turn up the flame during a bust. In actuality, the Fed's modus operandi has been to trick capitalists into doing things that are not aligned with economic reality. For example, the Fed creates the illusion, through artificially low interest rates, that there is both higher savings and higher consumption, and thus all assets should be worth more (making their holders invest and spend more‚Äîcan you say "bubble?"). The perpetuation of this trickery only delays the market's eventual, and often precipitous, return to reality. Many economists now recognize that the massive housing bubble of the early and mid-2000s was caused by the artificially low interest rate approach of theGreenspan¬†Fed, enacted in response to the dot-com crash (itself the ostensible result of artificially low rates). At the time, this was viewed as textbook pro-growth monetary policy; the economy (allegedly) needed a shot in the arm to get consumers and businesses spending again, especially after the 9/11 attacks. (Read more:¬†Fed's Rosengren speaks out on lone taper dissent) It appears those "textbooks" are wrong. Economists Selgin, Lastrapes and White analyzed the Fed's record and found that even focusing on the post-World War II era, it is not clear that the Fed has provided more economic stability compared with the pre-Fed regime that was characterized by the National Banking system. The authors concluded that "the need for a systematic exploration of alternatives to the established monetary system is as pressing today as it was a century ago." In other sectors, we don't normally defer to a committee of a dozen experts to set prices. Yet this is what the Fed does with its "open market committee" that routinely sets a target for the "federal funds rate" as well as other objectives. If we all agree that central planning and price-fixing don't work for computers and oil, why would we expect it to bring us stability in money and banking? On this, the 100th birthday of the Fed, it's time to ask ourselves: Wouldn't we be better off without a central bank? ‚ÄîBy Mark Spitznagel Mark Spitznagel is the founder and chief investment officer of the hedge fund Universa Investments and author of "The Dao of Capital: Austrian Investing in a Distorted World" (Wiley, 2013).
 MPI/Getty ImagesThe stock market continues to set new highs, which is exciting and fun for those of us who own stocks. I own stocks, so I'm certainly enjoying it. I hope stocks continue to charge higher through 2014, but I can't find much data to suggest that they will. I only have a vague hope that the Fed will continue to pump air into the balloon, the U.S. economy will finally start cranking again, and corporations will continue to find ways to cut more costs and grow their already record-high profit margins and earnings. Meanwhile, every valid valuation measure I look at suggests that stocks are at least 40% overvalued. That doesn't mean that stocks will crash. But it does strongly suggest that, at best, stocks are likely to produce lousy returns over the next 10 years. Which valuation measures suggest the stock market is very overvalued? These, among others: (See charts below.) How lousy do these measures suggest stock returns will be over the next decade? About 2% per year for the S&amp;P 500, including dividends ó a far cry from the double-digit returns of the past five years and the ~10% long-term average. If stocks just park here for a decade and return 2% a year through dividends, that wouldn't be particularly traumatic. But stocks rarely "park." They usually boom and bust. So the farther we get away from average valuations, the more the potential for a bust increases. So the higher we go, the less surprised I will be to see the stock market crash.† How big a crash could we get? According to the aforementioned valuation measures, and the work of fund manager John Hussman of the Hussman Funds, 40%-55%. A 50% crash would take the S&amp;P 500 below 900 and the DOW below 8,000. Is that going to happen? I don't know. But it wouldn't surprise me.† One thing I do know is that no one else knows, either. We're all just dealing in probabilities. And, just as importantly, no one knows when. Valuation measures like the ones above are unfortunately not helpful in predicting short- or intermediate-term market moves. So, maybe the market will continue to move higher through 2014. I certainly would be happy about that. But a careful study of history suggests that a crash is increasingly likely and that long-term stock returns from this level are likely to be crappy. I've explained in detail here why I think the odds of a crash are increasing. And I've also explained why, despite this, I'm not selling my stocks. (In short, because I am a long-term investor, I am mentally prepared for a crash, and I am planning to ride out any crash, the same way I did with the 2008-2009 crash. And also because none of the other major asset classes are particularly compelling investments at these prices, either.). Importantly, there are at least three sophisticated arguments about why the aforementioned valuation measures are wrong ó and, therefore, that "it's different this time." These are all sophisticated arguments, and they merit close consideration. After considering them, however, I don't find any of them particularly persuasive. Or, more accurately, I don't find any of them to be more persuasive than the long-term valuation measures I have cited above. All of these bullish arguments, moreover, boil down to the following: "It's different this time." "It's different this time," are known as "the four most expensive words in the English language." Because, too often, when investors and analysts try to justify high prices by arguing that "it's different this time," it turns out not to be different, and the investors and analysts end up losing their shirts. (I know this from experience. Back in 1999, I used a variety of "it's different this time" arguments to persuade myself and others that the dotcom stocks could continue appreciating. They could have. But they didn't.) Of course, you can't just scoff at those arguing that it's different this time by saying that it's never different this time, because sometimes it is. And that, among other reasons, is why it makes little sense to expend too much energy trying to forecast the market. Because it's really hard to be right consistently enough to avoid costing yourself serious money. But making specific forecasts is different from managing your own expectations. And my own expectations are that 1) stocks will have lousy returns over the next decade, and 2) the odds of a severe market pullback are steadily increasing. I will therefore not be surprised to see stocks crash in 2014. And neither should you! Below are some of the charts that show why I am concerned ... The following three charts show three long-term, time-tested valuation measures, all of which suggest the market is drastically overvalued. First, from Bill Hester of the Hussman Funds, a recent chart of Professor Robert Shiller's "CAPE" (cyclically-adjusted PE ratio). The blue line shows the prediction for 10-year returns. The red line shows the actual returns. If you have heard people say, "CAPE doesn't work anymore," you might want to read Bill Hester's analysis. He looks at all the arguments why CAPE doesn't work and concludes that it does. (We'll know for sure in 10 years.) Hussman Funds Second, in case you have been convinced that "CAPE" no longer works, here's a look at price-to-revenue. This measure is calling for a slightly better long-term return for the S&amp;P 500 ó just under 5% ó but still a far cry from the long-term average. Hussman Funds Third, in case your favorite bulls wave away both earnings and revenue, here's a chart of market-value-to-GDP. It's the most pessimistic of the lot. This chart suggests that the S&amp;P 500's average annual returns for the next 10 years will be negative. Hussman Funds One thing that people do when stocks get expensive is to find ways to explain why they aren't expensive. They don't do this to hoodwink you. They do this because stocks have been expensive for so long that the obvious conclusion must be that they're not expensive ó that it's different this time. One measure that people are using right now to argue that stocks are not expensive is the difference between the "earnings yield" and "Treasury yield." Interest rates are low and earnings are high, so it appears that stocks are delivering far higher "yields" than bonds and are therefore cheap. The problem with this analysis is that it doesn't work. Check out this chart below from John Hussman, which "backtests" the analysis. It doesn't have any predictive power at all. Hussman Funds Over the long haul, stocks track profits. And profits and profit margins are at record highs. Every time previously that profit margins have gotten way above or below average, they have violently reverted to the mean. Many people, including me, think this will happen again this time. The only question is when. Here's a long-term look at profit margins. Note how high they are. Note what has happened every time this has been the case in the past. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Byron Wien, a strategist at Blackstone, is worried about profit margins. He also just circulated this chart, which he says suggests that profit margins are "rolling over." This, he says, is bad news for earnings in 2014. Blackstone, Wisdomtree John Hussman is also worried about profits. He thinks profit margins are so out of whack that corporate earnings will decline at 10% per year for the next four years. Hussman Funds Hussman thinks that two things might cause profits to tank: 1) the decline of government deficits (which have been going directly into corporate coffers), and 2) increasing labor costs, as the labor market gets tighter. Hussman believes that these factors are already causing profits to miss estimates. This, Hussman suggests, may be why there are suddenly way more companies missing profit estimates than beating them: Market timing is always tough, and I don't know when profits and the market might break down. That really is anyone's guess. John Hussman has posted a fun technical chart addressing this question, though. Technical analysis is generally bunk, and I would never bet a dime on it. But it's also often fun. And this chart is especially fun. This chart suggests that the S&amp;P rise off the 2009 bottom has followed a clear "fractal" pattern that is often seen near the end of speculative advances. This chart suggests that the S&amp;P 500 (blue) might hit 1900 before collapsing. (It's at about 1,820 now). Hussman Funds Anyway, maybe it is indeed "different this time." So do what you want. But don't say you weren't warned!
¬† Some people get nervous when they have to taste a bottle of wine in a restaurant, or anywhere else for that matter. Stop the madness. Watch this 50-second video to learn how to fake it, at least until you become a true pro. Produced by Robert Libetti. Follow us on YouTube &gt; 
Last year, China leapfrogged the U.S. to become the world's biggest trading nation as measured by total exports and imports of goods. This map from Brendan O'Reilly at Chinese Relations¬†helps put this in a global context. China is the largest bilateral trading partner for all of the countries in red, the second largest for those in orange, and the third or lower for those in yellow. Check it out: China Relations
Just how well those wishers intend towards Khodorkovsky, and he towards them, is now to be tested. That‚Äôs a game even more Olympian than the one to be inaugurated in Sochi on February 7; or the one which those who hate President Vladimir Putin have yet to appreciate he‚Äôs playing.First of all, there is the question which Khodorkovsky will soon be discussing with Leonid Nevzlin, his former partner and trustee, now resident of Israel; Bruce Misamore, the chief financial officer at Yukos, who lives in Texas; plus an army of lawyers, PR agents, financial advisors, and miscellaneous invoicers who have been on Khodorkovsky‚Äôs payroll all these years, and who are naturally keen to stay that way. The stakes run into several billions of dollars, according to Khodorkovsky‚Äôs count and as he will shortly instruct new accountants to verify. New lawyers will also be required to make sure the trustee agreements Khodorkovsky thinks he left behind won‚Äôt go the way Oleg Deripaska did to Mikhail Chernoy, or Roman Abramovich to Boris Berezovsky. Misamore is claiming in the¬†Financial Times¬†that before Khodorkovsky recovers his balance-sheets, he ought to be up for as much litigation as Misamore would like him to pay for. One of Misamore‚Äôs¬†money-spinners aims¬†‚Äúto settle with the 55,000 or so shareholders of Yukos who have been waiting for 10 years for compensation and justice for the billions of dollars in assets that were stolen by the Russian Federation. Their claims are being played out in courtrooms from New York to Amsterdam, Strasbourg to London.‚Äù For the story of Misamore‚Äôs pursuit of more than a billion dollars‚Äô worth of booty in Amsterdam, read¬†this. What if Khodorkovsky insists he will not be paying for this any longer, as he has already said since¬†his release? Then there is the question which Khodorkovsky will want to consider ‚Äì if not exactly discuss ‚Äì with Alexei Navalny, Vladimir Ryzhkov, Boris Nemtsov, Gary Kasparov, Sergei Udaltsov, Ilya Ponomarev, Evgenia Chirikova, and Olga Romanova. These are the names who comprise the current Russian opposition; theirs are feathers easily ruffled. Within weeks the VTsIOM and Levada polling organizations will be able to measure just how little name recognition in Khodorkovsky‚Äôs case will produce in voter support; and how much divisiveness Khodorkovsky‚Äôs undiminished self-regard will sow among the domestic regime changers. Across town in the Kremlin, among those in the Putin circle strategizing for a stable succession, the more trouble Khodorkovsky stirs among the opposition, the stronger the case will be for removing candidate successors as weak as Dmitry Medvedev, and for building up much stronger candidates. The first among those is Igor Sechin. His remark on the release of Khodorkovskyon Friday morning, following Sechin‚Äôs session with Putin that afternoon, was: ‚ÄúI am ready to consider the question of employment of the former head of Yukos, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, [who was] pardoned today by the President. However, all places in the top management of the company are taken. We are ready to consider any offers, but we have precise standards: [his] qualification has to be confirmed. The structure of the company is known ‚Äî the places of top managers are occupied now. But if there is any interesting offer, we will consider it.‚Äù This wasn‚Äôt light irony, nor heavy vengeance. It was the declaration of one of the men running the country that unless Khodorkovsky accepts his subordination, he has no future in Russia. Sechin‚Äôs meaning stung Khodorkovsky swiftly into replying from Berlin. He said that before judging his qualifications Sechin should have to ‚Äúwork where I worked.‚Äù That‚Äôs a veiled threat that Sechin should try a spell in prison. Sechin has thus drawn Khodorkovsky out, exposing once more, as the Kremlin sees it, the over-weaning vanity which has made Khodorkovsky a predictable foil for Putin since 2003. Finally, there is already among Germany‚Äôs self-appointed liberationists like academic Alexander Rahr, the problem of what they have gotten Chancellor Angela Merkel, her ministers, secret services, and business supporters into. Rahr, who is more believed outside Germany than inside,¬†claims¬†the scheme for Khodorkovsky‚Äôs application for release, and the terms agreed to by Putin, were the work of former foreign minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher ‚Äúwith the Chancellor‚Äôs office, with Mrs. [Angela] Merkel, with minister of foreign affairs [Guido] Westerwelle, with the German embassy in Moscow‚Äù ‚Äì and Rahr himself. ‚ÄúWithout Genscher playing this role, Khodorkovsky might not have been released‚Ä¶ He‚Äôs very close to Angela Merkel.‚Äù If there has been a secret undertaking between Merkel and Putin, and if in retrospect that appears to neutralize Khodorkovsky‚Äôs future as an asset to Russia‚Äôs enemies, this is likely to cause recriminations among the German political elite. In time, Khodorkovsky is also likely to feel uncomfortable in Germany whose closeness to Russia the Germans will not encourage him to entertain. If Khodorkovsky opts next for New York or London, he will liquidate his significance more swiftly and surely than Berezovsky was able to do in his decade in exile. An American welcome for Khodorkovsky would bury him as deeply as Vermont did for Alexander Solzhenitsyn. But would Prime Minister David Cameron, Mayor Boris Johnson, or the Labour Party be as hospitable to Khodorkovsky‚Äôs application for residence in London as they have been for the likes of Bank of Moscow fraudster,¬†Andrei Borodin? The Kremlin‚Äôs calculation of British intentions is that agree or disagree, that‚Äôs a win-win for Putin.
The stock is rallying after the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) reaffirmed the green automaker's 5-star safety rating of the "Model S and in all subcategories for Model Year 2014," on Monday.¬† USA Today also reported that an analyst suggested that Apple buy Tesla, as the company tries to regain its "innovation edge." Neither Apple nor Tesla commented on the analyst suggestion and it is unclear if this is boosting the stock price as well. Tesla's stock took a beating in October and November after three Model S vehicles caught fire raising concerns about battery and vehicle safety. There were concerns again when it was reported that a garage fire was started by an overheated charging system.¬† But Tesla CEO Elon Musk has repeatedly spoken out to defend Tesla's record and point out that none of the battery fires were spontaneous. Earlier this month the German Federal Motor Transport Authority, Kraftfahrt-Bundesamt (KBA) also gave Tesla the all-clear. Tesla is up 350% year-to-date, but is down from its September 30 closing high of $193.37. This five-day chart shows the nice bump that Tesla has got on the news: Google Finance
REUTERS/Mike BlakeNew home sales fell 2.1% in November, worse than expectations for a 0.9% fall. But the level came in at an annualized pace of 464,000. This was better than expectations for a fall to an annualized pace of 440,000. The median sales price of new houses was $270,900 and the average sales price was $340,300. There was 4.3 months' supply of new homes at the current sales rate. October new home sales were revised down to show a 17.6% rise to an annualized pace of 474,000. This compares with the initial reading of a 25.4% rise to 444,000 in October. There were two main factors behind the surge in October new home sales. First, they were coming off a weaker base and second, the impact of rising mortgage rates ended up being worse than expected but was temporary. Homebuilder confidence climbed to 58 in December and November housing starts climbed to the highest level since February 2008. But economists expect home prices to slow going forward.
America's labor market has undergone all kinds of transformations ¬†following the Great Recession. Among the more worrisome trends: The proportion of full-time jobs to overall jobs has fallen off the deck. ¬† Wells Fargo Securities recently published their "Favorite Charts of 2013" and it included a chart illustrating this phenomenon. Their data show that while we are just 1.3 million payrolls below pre-recession levels, we remain 5 million full-time jobs below the pre-recession peak. Through the first 11 months of 2013, full-time monthly job growth has averaged just 96,000 payrolls a month.¬†At that rate, it will be more than four years before we return to pre-recession levels of full-time employment.¬† Wells Fargo
Spencer Platt / GettyHoward Schultz gets up at 4:30 a.m.It's no coincidence that so many successful people get up early. The early bird schedule is good for responding to people and events around the world, getting a head start on people in your own time zone, and also finding time for exercise and family.¬†What's more,¬†research shows¬†that early risers tend to be happier¬†and more proactive. While a late schedule may make sense for some occupations, most people should take notes from the executives and other successful people on this list.
San Francisco FedThe results of the Richmond Fed's December manufacturing survey are out. The report's headline index was unchanged from last month's reading at 13. Economists expected it to slide to 10. The unemployment sub-index jumped to 14 from November's 6 reading. Below is a summary of the data from the release: Fifth District manufacturing activity continued to grow at a slightly slower pace in December, according to the most recent survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Shipments and the volume of new orders grew at a slightly slower rate compared to last month. Manufacturing employment picked up this month, while wages and average work week rose more slowly. The backlog of orders and vendor lead time declined in December, as capacity utilization rose. Manufacturers remained optimistic about their future business conditions. Survey participants predicted the volume of new orders and shipments would grow at a faster pace. Additionally, they looked for capacity utilization to grow more quickly during the next six months. Firms anticipated rising backlogs of new orders and longer vendor lead times. Producers expected the number of employees and wages to grow at a faster pace during the next six months. Compared with the current month, expectations were for slower growth in the average work week. Raw materials and finished goods prices rose at a slower pace in December compared to last month. However manufacturers expected faster growth in prices paid and prices received over the next six months. The Richmond Fed's survey polls manufacturers from Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina on regional business conditions. Click here for the full release ¬ª
St. Louis FedCore capex surged in November, according to just-released data.Just-released November durable goods orders data point to a big rise in business investment last month. Orders of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft, commonly referred to as "core capex," were up 4.5%, well above the Wall Street consensus estimate of 0.7% growth and marking a stark turnaround from the 0.7% decline observed in October. Core capex ó a key measure of business investment ó has been one of the most notably lacking aspects of the economic recovery, and many of our favorite Wall Street strategists, economists, and portfolio managers have flagged capex as the "most important chart" to watch in 2014. Today's numbers, then, are a good sign ó especially in the context of improvements in other areas of the economy. However, there's a bit of a catch, as Adrian Miller, director of fixed income strategy at GMP Securities, points out in a note to clients following the release. "With the market seeking evidence of a broadening economy since business investments has been one of the main missing components, November durable goods data provided such evidence," says Miller. "And yet, and you know there had to be an 'and yet,' we must remember that there are two expiring tax programs relating to investing in R&amp;D and depreciation tax credit that allows companies to write off 50% of equipment purchases that expires at the end of the year. So we are likely seeing a rush of companies taking advantage of the looming deadline effectively pulling forward business spending." Miller is referring to Internal Revenue Code ß41, which expires on December 31. December durable goods orders data are likely to reveal a similar surge in core capex this month, but crucially, it will be important to see how these gains carry over to January.
i am real estate photographer via flickrThe FHFA home price index climbed 0.5% month over month in October, right in line with economist expectations. That's up from the September print, originally 0.3% but revised down to 0.2% today. Here's the full release: Washington, D.C. ‚Äì U.S. house price appreciation continued in October 2013, with prices rising 0.5 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis from the previous month, according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) monthly House Price Index (HPI). The October HPI change marks the twenty-first consecutive monthly price increase in the purchase-only, seasonally adjusted index. The previously reported 0.3 percent increase in September was revised downward to a 0.2 percent increase. The HPI is calculated using home sales price information from mortgages either sold to or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. From October 2012 to October 2013, house prices¬†were up 8.2 percent. The U.S. index is 8.8 percent below its April 2007 peak and is roughly¬†the same as the April 2005 index level. For the nine census divisions, seasonally adjusted monthly price changes from September to October ranged from -1.0 percent in the East South Central division to +1.2 percent in the¬†Mountain division, while the 12-month changes ranged from +4.7 percent in the East South Central division to +17.5 percent in the Pacific division.
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschNovember durable goods orders data are out. Total orders rose 3.5% in November, surpassing expectations for a 2.0% rise. October's 2.0% decline was revised down to a 0.7% loss. Orders of durable goods excluding transportation rose 1.2%, besting expectations for a 0.7% gain. The October rate of growth was revised up to 0.7% from -0.1%. Orders of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft (a.k.a. "core capex") surged 4.5%, well above the 0.7% consensus estimate. October's number was revised to -0.7% from -1.2%. Shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft rose 2.8%, above the 1.0% consensus estimate, with October data revised down to -0.4% from -0.2%. "With the market seeking evidence of a broadening economy since business investments has been one of the main missing components, November durable goods data provided such evidence," says Adrian Miller, director of fixed income strategy at GMP Securities. "And yet, and you know there had to be an 'and yet,' we must remember that there are two expiring tax programs relating to investing in R&amp;D and depreciation tax credit that allows companies to write off 50% of equipment purchases that expires at the end of the year. So we are likely seeing a rush of companies taking advantage of the looming deadline effectively pulling forward business spending." Click here for the full release ¬ª
LONDON¬†(Reuters) - The¬†Syrian government¬†of President¬†Bashar al-Assad¬†has received substantial imports of Iraqi crude oil from an Egyptian port in the last nine months, shipping and payments documents show, part of an under-the-radar trade that has kept his military running despite Western sanctions. Assad's government¬†has been blacklisted by Western powers for its role in the two-and-a-half year civil war, forcing¬†Damascus¬†to rely on strategic ally Iran - itself the target of Western sanctions over its nuclear program - as its main supplier of crude oil. A Reuters examination based on previously undisclosed commercial documents about Syrian oil purchases shows however that Iran is no longer acting alone. Dozens of shipping and payment documents viewed by Reuters show that millions of barrels of crude delivered to¬†Assad's government¬†on Iranian ships has actually come from¬†Iraq, through Lebanese and Egyptian trading companies. The trade, which is denied by the firms involved, has proven lucrative, with companies demanding a steep premium over the normal cost of oil in return for bearing the risk of shipping it to¬†Syria. It also highlights a previously undisclosed role of¬†Egypt,¬†Iraq¬†and¬†Lebanon¬†in Assad's supply chain, despite those countries' own restrictions on assisting his government. Both the Syrian national oil company that received the oil,¬†Sytrol, and the Iranian shipping operator that delivered it, the National Iranian Tanker Co (NITC), are on U.S. and EU sanctions lists barring them from doing business with U.S. or European firms, cutting them off from the U.S. and EU financial systems and freezing their assets. Although firms outside the¬†United States¬†and EU are not subject to their sanctions, companies that do business with firms on sanctions lists risk themselves being blacklisted: Washington and¬†Brussels¬†regularly add companies and individuals from third countries to their sanctions lists if they are found to deal with companies already listed. At least four firms from third countries that were added to the¬†U.S. Treasury's sanctions list for Iran when it was last updated on December 12 were punished specifically "for providing material support to NITC", the Treasury said. "We have been very focused on targeting Iranian attempts to aid the Assad regime through economic as well as military means," said a Treasury Department spokesman. He declined to comment on the specific activities described in the documents reviewed by Reuters but said companies and individuals had been added to the sanctions list for similar types of activity. The cache of documents describing the trade between March and May this year was shown to Reuters by a source on condition of anonymity. Many details were corroborated by a separate Middle Eastern shipping source with long-standing ties to the Syrian maritime industry. Publicly available satellite tanker tracking data, provided by Thomson Reuters, parent company of Reuters, was used to confirm the movements of ships. The documents refer to at least four shipments by four tankers named Camellia, Daisy, Lantana and Clove, each of which is operated by Iran's NITC and, say the documents, carried Iraqi oil from¬†Egypt's Mediterranean port of Sidi Kerir¬†to¬†Syria. According to the documents,¬†Beirut-based trading firm¬†Overseas Petroleum Trading¬†(OPT) invoiced¬†Syria¬†for arranging at least two of the shipments and was involved in a third, while a¬†Cairo-based firm,¬†Tri-Ocean¬†Energy, was responsible for loading Iraqi oil into at least one. Both OPT and¬†Tri-Ocean¬†denied any involvement in the¬†Syria¬†trade, declining to offer an alternative explanation for what the documents and ship tracking data show. An EU country government source said¬†Tri-Ocean¬†is already under scrutiny by the¬†United States¬†for suspected violations of sanctions against Iran, giving no further details. The¬†U.S. Treasury¬†spokesman declined to comment on specific investigations. Iran's NITC declined to comment. There was no evidence that the Iraqi or Egyptian governments were involved in shipping Iraqi oil through¬†Egypt's port, as crude can change hands after first being exported. Iraq¬†has been criticized in the past by Western countries for allowing deliveries of supplies and weapons from Iran to¬†Syria¬†to pass through its airspace.¬†Iraq's oil ministry did not respond to multiple requests for comment. The¬†Iraqi government¬†controls exports of crude from the country and has tried to restrict traders from re-selling its oil. A representative of the¬†Arab Petroleum Pipeline Company, which is known as SUMED and owns and operates¬†Egypt's Mediterranean port of Sidi Kerir¬†where the oil tankers loaded, had no comment. SUMED is half owned by the Egyptian state oil company¬†EGPC¬†and half by a group of four other Arab countries. Tarek El-Molla, the chairman of¬†EGPC, said that¬†Egypt¬†had banned state companies from dealing with Iranian oil and shipping firms, and that he was unaware of shipments to¬†Syria. El-Molla said a tanker flying the Iranian flag would not be able to berth at¬†Sidi Kerir. The four NITC-operated tankers involved in the shipments have all been renamed within the past few years and were flying Tanzanian flags at the time they loaded in¬†Egypt, a tactic Reuters has previously reported has been used by Iran to mitigate the impact of sanctions on its shipping since sanctions against¬†Tehran¬†were tightened in 2011. Syria¬†imported up to 17 million barrels of crude oil between February and October, of which roughly half came directly from Iran and half from¬†Egypt's Sidi Kerir port, according to the Middle Eastern shipping source. The cache of documents reveals that at least half of the oil from¬†Egypt's port¬†was Iraqi crude. Lebanese oil trading firm OPT arranged the shipments with¬†Syria's internationally blacklisted state-owned oil company,¬†Sytrol, operator of the one functioning refinery still under Assad's control. The documents show the firm invoicing¬†Sytrol¬†for almost $250 million for two deliveries of Iraqi crude it had arranged in March and May to¬†Syria's Banias refinery. In a letter to¬†Sytrol's marketing manager dated April 4 of this year, OPT asked for a payment advance of around $50 million and detailed previous deals with the Syrian state oil company. "Our company (OPT) has and continues to secure the state's needs in oil and oil derivatives in the recent period and was able to secure this despite major difficulties and challenges," said the letter from an OPT official,Abdelhamid Khamis Abdullah, whose name appears frequently in the correspondence. It was not possible to ascertain his exact role at the company. The letter states OPT had already provided¬†Sytrol¬†with almost 5 million barrels of crude, diesel, and cooking fuel. The price for each barrel of¬†Iraq's Basra Light crude in the invoices is between $15 and $17 above the official Iraqi price at that time, equivalent to an extra $15 million for each tanker. OPT denied being involved in selling oil to¬†Syria. "We dispute all what you mentioned in your below emails," an OPT employee said in an email, without providing a name. The company offered no alternative explanation for the documents. Egyptian oil firm¬†Tri-Ocean¬†Energy, which has brokered deals for OPT in the past, loaded at least one cargo of Iraqi crude onto an Iranian tanker that was delivered into¬†Syria¬†by OPT at the end of May, according to the documents, which say the oil was delivered to¬†Syria¬†on the Iranian tanker Clove on May 26. Tri-Ocean's senior trading director¬†Ali Tolba¬†denied in an email that his company supplied¬†Syria¬†with crude or had loaded Iraqi oil onto Iranian tankers. He and¬†Tri-Ocean's CEO,¬†Mohammed el-Ansary, did not respond to a request from Reuters to review the documents seen by Reuters.¬†Syria's¬†Sytrol¬†did not respond. THE MILITIA MONEY MAN Sytrol¬†has used a blacklisted businessman close to Assad as intermediary to transfer money to OPT, according to the documents. In a letter from OPT to¬†Sytrol¬†on March 14 of this year, OPT requested payment through¬†Ayman Jaber. Jaber, who runs a company called Al Jazerra, is himself on U.S. and EU sanctions lists, which means firms or individuals doing business with him can themselves be added to the lists. When it listed Jaber a year ago, the¬†U.S. Treasury¬†accused him of coordinating state-sponsored¬†pro-Assad militia¬†groups known as Shabiha in the¬†port of Latakia. "Please could you pay the value of approximately $130 million plus 1.8 percent transfer fee into the account of Mr.Ayman Jaber, the head of Al Jazerra, at the central bank so he can transfer it into our accounts abroad," OPT wrote. In another letter three weeks later, OPT confirmed receipt of around 375 million euros from Al Jazerra, transferred from the account of¬†Ayman Jaber. At least two other firms mentioned in the documents had names and logos similar to companies based in the EU, which would be directly subject to European sanctions forbidding them to deal with¬†Sytrol¬†or NITC. In both cases, European head offices denied any relationship with Syrian offices using their names. Some of the documents confirming the arrival of the oil in¬†Syria¬†were stamped or signed by a shipping agency called¬†Med Control¬†Syria.¬†Jhony Matnious, a manager at the company in¬†Damascus, told Reuters by email that the crude imports were Iranian through a government agreement between¬†Damascus¬†and¬†Tehran. Med Control has a head office in¬†Greece, which lists¬†Syria¬†as a branch office on its website with the same address, logo, phone number and email as in the documents. A manager there denied any relationship with the¬†Syria¬†office: "We had an agency agreement in¬†Syria¬†but it was never active and we never had any business in that country," said¬†Sam Papanikolas. Documents showed some shipments were certified by a quality control firm called Inspectorate, owned by¬†Paris-based firm¬†Bureau Veritas. A¬†Bureau Veritas¬†spokeswoman in¬†Paris¬†said Inspectorate had previously employed a subcontractor in¬†Syria¬†but had stopped since October 2011, and any certificates this year would have been issued without the firm's knowledge. After leaving¬†Iraq, the crude oil was delivered to¬†Sidi Kerir¬†on the 200 mile¬†SUMED pipeline, which runs from the Red Sea to the port west of Alexandria, where it was loaded onto Iranian ships. According to Reuters AIS Live ship tracking data, which monitors the location of oil tankers via satellite, the four ships each sailed north towards¬†Syria. Each ship switched off its satellite signals just before the delivery date in¬†Syria, then reappeared on satellite tracking shortly after. In some cases the satellite data also contains information about cargo weight, which confirms that the cargo was unloaded while the ships' signals were shut off. "Aiming to cut off a regime from oil supplies is very very difficult," said¬†Ayham Kamel,¬†Middle East¬†and¬†North Africa¬†analyst at Eurasia Group consultancy in¬†London¬†said. "Especially as the regime still has a few allies." (Additional reporting by Anna Yukhananov in Washington, Jessica Donati in Kabul, Jonathan Saul and Lin Noueihed in¬†London, Laila Bassam in¬†Beirut, Maggie Fick and Shadia Nasralla in¬†Cairo, Ahmed Rasheed and Sylvia Westall in Baghdad, Amena Bakr in Doha and Daniel Fineren in Dubai; Editing by David Sheppard and Peter Graff)
REUTERS/Francois LenoirDon't bet against Mario Draghi.The stock market has been on an extraordinary rally since its lows in March 2009. However, the latter part of the rally has been particularly remarkable.¬† Despite ongoing economic hiccups and political turmoil around the world, the last time we saw a 10%+ correction was back in the summer of 2011. It seems like neither good nor bad economic news can touch this bull run. Why? "I think the markets lost their sensitivity because of 3 words: 'whatever it takes,'" said market strategist Gerard Minack to Business Insider. "We no longer worry that macro weakness will cue more systemic stress." Back in July 26, 2012, European Central Bank president Mario Draghi said "the ECB is ready to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro." Many saw this as a key turning point for monetary policy in the euro zone. And this more or less appears to be the mentality adopted by the world's major central banks as they work to stimulate their local economies. "In short, markets think we're back to normal," said Minack. "I don't think we are, but that's another story." Minack told us this when we asked him for what he considered to be the most important chart in the world. He sent us this chart overlaying the forward price-earnings ratio of developed markets with the economic surprise index of the G10 economies.¬† It shows that in the last two years, investors have been paying a steadily increasing premium for stocks even as economic data exhibited lots of volatility. Minack Advisors, Business Insider
REUTERS/Olivia HarrisNEW YORK (AP) ó Stores are hoping Americans who've been tight-fisted with their money will get the last-minute itch to buy in the final week of the holiday shopping season. After a strong start to the season, sales at stores have fallen for three consecutive weeks. That puts a lot of pressure on retailers to get shoppers into stores in the final days of what's typically the busiest shopping period of the year. Sales at U.S. stores dropped 3.1 percent to $42.7 billion for the week that ended on Sunday compared with the same week last year, according to ShopperTrak, which tracks data at 40,000 locations. That follows a decline of 2.9 percent and 0.8 percent during the first and second weeks of the month, respectively. The numbers, which don't include online sales, are another challenge in what has largely turned out to be a disappointing holiday shopping season for stores. The two-month period that begins on Nov. 1 is important for retailers because they can make up to 40 percent of their annual sales during that time. Retailers started the season cautiously optimistic after a strong start in November ó ShopperTrak said sales were up 3.4 percent for the month. But in the final days, retailers have found it increasingly hard to attract shoppers into stores even though some like Toys R Us have rolled out big discounts, while others like Kohl's have stayed open for dozens of hours straight since the weekend. None of that seemed to lure shoppers. At the Garden State Plaza Mall in Paramus, N.J. on Saturday, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, AnnTaylor and Express had 50 percent sales, while Aeropostale was discounting its entire assortment up to 70 percent. Still, Barbara Jackson, 45, was spending cautiously. She said she's capping her holiday budget at $1,500 ó half of what she spent last year. That's because Jackson, an aide to the elderly, is earning less than last year. "I am more budget conscious," Jackson said. Karen McDonald, a spokeswoman at Taubman Centers, which owns or operates 28 malls, estimated that business for the week that ended Sunday was unchanged to mid-single digit percentage growth compared with a year ago. "I felt for sure it was going to be gangbusters. But it was just OK," McDonald said. ShopperTrak estimates that holiday sales at stores so far are up 2 percent to $218.4 billion compared with the same period last year. That's below the 2.4 percent forecast for the two-month period, but the company is standing by that estimate with a few days left before Christmas and a little over a week before the season ends. The National Retail Federation, the nation's largest retail group, also said it's sticking with its forecast that sales in stores and online will be up 3.9 percent to $602.1 billion. But even online sales, which had been a bright spot for much of the season, aren't growing at the expected pace. Online spending from home and work desktop computers in the U.S. from Nov. 1 through Dec. 15 was up 9 percent from the same period last year to $37.8 billion, according to the most available data from comScore. That's below the 14 percent growth that the Internet research firm is forecasting for the season. The company still expects online sales to grow at that pace for the season, but the category only accounts for about 11 percent of spending in the three months that include the holiday shopping season. Final sales figures for the holiday shopping season are expected in January. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
MOSCOW¬†(Reuters) -¬†Russia¬†told¬†Ukraine¬†on Tuesday it had transferred the first $3 billion tranche of a $15 billion bailout, part of plans to keep¬†Kiev¬†firmly within¬†Moscow's orbit and out of the¬†European Union's embrace. President¬†Vladimir Putin¬†offered¬†Ukraine¬†the lifeline last week, along with a big cut in the price¬†Kiev¬†pays for vital Russian gas supplies, as he tries to persuade¬†Russia's Slavic neighbor to join a customs union of ex-Soviet republics. "Yesterday ... the first tranche of Ukrainian sovereign debt was acquired for $3 billion," Russian Prime MinisterDmitry Medvedev¬†told his Ukrainian counterpart¬†Mykola Azarov¬†at a meeting in¬†Moscow, according to Interfax news agency. "The money went to the¬†central bank of Ukraine¬†yesterday." President¬†Viktor Yanukovich's pivot back towards¬†Moscow¬†and away from an offer of closer trade ties with the EU has sparked huge protests in¬†Ukraine, sometimes swelling to hundreds of thousands, and the creation of a tent camp in central¬†Kiev. The protesters accuse Yanukovich of selling out to¬†Ukraine's Soviet-era overlord with the deal on debt and gas prices. The Kremlin said it had invited Azarov to join Putin and other leaders for a meeting of former Soviet republics taking part in trade alliances¬†Russia¬†is building, part of¬†Moscow's drive to restore its influence in its former empire. Ukraine¬†has so far resisted joining a¬†Russia-led customs union that includes¬†Belarus¬†and¬†Kazakhstan¬†- a big step because membership would scupper any lingering possibility that¬†Kiev¬†might reverse course and sign a free trade deal with the EU. Any signal that¬†Ukraine¬†might join the customs union would re-invigorate protests in¬†Ukraine, which have started to show signs of flagging despite a constant crowd of a few thousand people at the tent camp in¬†Kiev's Independence Square. About 100,000 people gathered at the square on Sunday to demonstrate for the fifth weekend in a row, but the number was the lowest this month, and around half the previous weekend's turnout. Putin has made closer integration among ex-Soviet states a priority of his third term after 14 years in power. He is using the customs union as a foundation for a¬†Eurasian Economic Union, due to come into existence in 2015. Putin has won victories with decisions by¬†Kyrgyzstan¬†and¬†Armenia¬†to move toward joining the customs union, but the leader of oil-producing¬†Kazakhstan¬†on Tuesday repeated a warning that Putin's post-Soviet integration plans must not go too far. "I don't want to repeat myself, but the politicization of the union that is being created is inadmissible," Kazakh President¬†Nursultan Nazarbayev¬†said at a meeting with Putin before the broader gathering. (Writing by Steve Gutterman; Editing by Gareth Jones)
The Wolf of Wall Street/Paramount PicturesLiving the dream.Tucked behind the Goldman Sachs building at 200 West Street, the Regal Battery Park theater was a fitting venue for last night's free advanced screening of "The Wolf of Wall Street," Martin Scorsese's highly-anticipated biopic about '90s-era pump-and-dump charlatan Jordan Belfort. Disturbing: Belfort's decadence. Equally disturbing: the finance-heavy audience's gleeful reaction to his behavior and legal wrongdoings. Credit Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio, who played Belfort, for keeping the high-octane, drug-filled movie entertaining for three hours (the longest Scorsese film by about 60 seconds). But my one major gripe was pretty simple: Jordan Belfort defrauded a lot of people ó and by the nature of his penny stock transgressions, many low-income people ó out of a ton of money. He then used that money, as one does, on cocaine, hookers, cars, and yachts. It may be great cinema to document his exploits, but there's a fine line between satirizing Wall Street's excess and celebrating Belfort's lifestyle. Put simply, the film could have done a better job making Belfort look like a villain. Or maybe the film did do that, and we were just watching with the wrong crowd. There were a lot of finance pros there. The theater is in Manhattan's financial district and the movie has "Wall Street" in the name, after all. Plus†you can actually see into Goldman's trading room floor from the escalator. There's a lot of talk about how Wall Street has "changed" since the financial crisis. Compliance is up, bonuses are down, the holiday parties are boring. But you wouldn't necessarily know that from what these guys were cheering at. When Belfort ó a drug addict who later attempts to remain sober ó rips up a couch cushion to get to his secret coke stash, there were cheers. Then, intercut with Popeye eating spinach, Belfort is irrevocably high on†Quaaludes (or "ludes," a muscle relaxer) and dumps coke into his nose to remedy the situation ó more cheers.  The worst, though, mild spoiler alert ...†At one point later in the movie, the feds get Belfort to wear a wire to implicate others at his firm. Meeting with his No. 2, Belfort slides over a piece of paper: "Don't incriminate yourself. I am wearing a wire." And the crowd goes wild. Don't rat! Stand by your firm! Bankers: First of all, don't cheer in a movie. It's weird. You can laugh, but no cheering. Second, guffawing while Leo attempts to evade federal indictment doesn't exactly help America's perception of your societal value. Hopefully this kind of euphoria was confined to one boozy, Financial District pre-screening (Paramount gave us popcorn and martinis upon entrance), because it would be a real shame if Martin Scorsese just accidentally inspired the future Jordan Belforts of the world.
REUTERS/KCNAHonor guards carry a floral basket sent by North Korean leader Kim Jong Un during a ceremony held on Sunday where new statues of late North Korean leader Kim Jong Il and the country's founder Kim Il Sung were unveiled in the eastern coastal city of Wonsan, in this photo released by North Korea's Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) on December 23, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Mike BlakeSan Marcos, CaliforniaNEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages fell for a second week and hit a 13-year low as mortgage rates rose due to a bond market sell-off following the Federal Reserve's decision to pare its bond purchase stimulus in January, an industry group said on Tuesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, fell 6.3 percent to the lowest level since December 2000. Mortgage applications have fallen sharply since this summer on a jump in home finance costs as benchmark Treasuries yields eventually rose to a two-year high. Last Wednesday, Fed policy-makers opted to make their tapering move, which will begin in January with a $10 billion monthly reduction evenly split between Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities to $75 billion. "Following the Federal Reserve's taper announcement, mortgage application volume dropped again last week, with rates increasing and refinance application volume falling to its lowest level since November 2008," Mike Fratantoni, MBA's vice president of research and economics, said in a statement. The rate on fixed 30-year mortgages averaged 4.64 percent last week, up 2 basis points from the prior week. It fell short of the two-plus year high of 4.80 percent set in September. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications fell 7.7 percent. The gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, fell 3.5 percent to its lowest level since February 2012. The refinance share of total mortgage activity slipped to 65 percent from 66 percent the previous week, while adjustable-rate mortgages rose 8.3 percent last week to the biggest share since July 2008. The MBA typically reports its weekly application data on Wednesday, but released the data a day early due to the Christmas holiday. It said it will suspend release of the data next week. It will resume the release of the data on January 8 with results of the two prior weeks. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Editing by Leslie Adler)
Comparative cost advantages and emerging market growth are among the forces fueling international trade. Below is a map from Goldman Sachs of the world's fastest-growing trade routes since 2005. And as you can see, it's been all about China. Goldman Sachs
REUTERS/Eric ThayerThe timing couldn't be worse.BOSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Target Corp's general counsel, Timothy Baer, spoke with top state prosecutors on Monday to address their concerns about a massive data breach, as consumer lawsuits piled up against the retailer and two U.S. senators called for a federal probe. Attorneys general from several states including Connecticut, Massachusetts and New York have asked the company to provide more information about the cyber attack, in which hackers stole data from as many as 40 million credit and debit cards of shoppers who visited Target stores during the first three weeks of the holiday shopping season. Target did not specify which state officials Baer spoke with to "bring them up to date" on the data breach, the second-largest in U.S. retail history. The No. 3 U.S. retailer said the call took place earlier on Monday but gave few details on the discussion. The company faces at least 15 lawsuits seeking class action status as a result of the cyber attack. The suits were filed by people who claim their information was stolen and they allege that Target either failed to properly secure the customer data, did not promptly notify customers of the breach or both. Target spokeswoman Molly Snyder said it was company policy not to comment on litigation. The Secret Service is leading the government's investigation into the matter. Target has not said how its systems were compromised, except to say the operation was "sophisticated." It has apologized and offered 10 percent discounts over the weekend to bring disgruntled customers back to stores. With so little information disclosed so far about the attack, it is unclear whether the plaintiffs will be able to prove their allegations. Meanwhile, two Democratic U.S. Senators, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut and Chuck Schumer of New York, have asked the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to investigate the breach. "If Target failed to adequately protect customer information, it denied customers the protection that they rightly expect when a business collects their personal information," Blumenthal said in a letter to FTC Chairwoman Edith Ramirez on Monday. "Its conduct would be unfair and deceptive." An FTC spokeswoman confirmed that the letters had been received but said she could not comment on whether a probe was in the works, citing a policy not to discuss ongoing investigations. Shares of Target shares have fallen about 2.8 percent since the company disclosed the breach early on Thursday, erasing about $1 billion in market value. The S&amp;P 500 Index has been little changed over the same period. Target's consumer perception scores have dropped to their lowest level since 2007, according to a survey of 15,000 people by YouGov BrandIndex, which tracks public perception of thousands of brands around the world. Target's Buzz score for the week preceding the data breach announcement was 26. The Buzz score was -19 on Monday, representing a drop of 45 points. (YouGov BrandIndex's Buzz score ranges from 100 to -100 and is compiled by subtracting negative feedback from positive. The survey has an error of plus or minus 2 percent.) "Right now, some consumers are not sure if they can trust Target with their personal information," said Ted Marzilli, chief executive of YouGov BrandIndex. Prior to the breach, Target's consumer perception score was more than twice the average of the retail group that includes chains such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc, Gap Inc, Best Buy Co Inc and Amazon.com Inc. Target's scores have also dropped about 10 to 15 points in the last week or so on purchase consideration. "There are fewer consumers citing Target as a brand that they would consider purchasing from. That is a bad sign for Target," said Marzilli. Citibank took four weeks and Sony took eight weeks to recover from the hit to consumer perception after incidents of data breaches. Marzilli said he expects Target to take 12 weeks or longer to recover, unless more problems emerge. (Reporting by Jim Finkle; Editing by Cynthia Osterman)
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettChoristers of St Paul's Cathedral practice in the choir stalls of the cathedral in the City of London.Markets are up early in Europe's holiday-shortened trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.2%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.6%. Germany, Italy, and most other major European markets are closed. U.S. futures are up a hair after U.S. stocks closed at new record highs on Monday. Incoming economic data has confirmed that the U.S. economy continues to grow at a healthy clip in Q4. "Current quarter real GDP growth looks to be running near 4%," tweeted Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna after Monday's personal income and spending report. "No wonder the unemployment rate is dropping so fast." Later this morning, the U.S. will release new durable goods orders and new home sales stats before markets close at 1:00 p.m. ET.
