ReutersDespite the S&amp;P 500 hitting an all time closing high, Asian markets are mixed. Trading volume is low because of the Good Friday holiday, and markets in Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, and India are closed. Chinese stocks are up, after falling to a three-month low on Thursday. Stocks were impacted by the banking regulator's regulations on China's wealth management products that are said to total about $2.1 trillion.  U.S. stock markets will also be shut for the Good Friday holiday.
The Chinese stock market took a hit Thursday after its banking regulator issued new regulations to tighten control over banks' wealth management products (WMPs).† WMPs are essentially a pool of securities (trust products, bonds, stock funds) that have yield that is on average 2 percentage points higher than bank deposits. They are sold as low-risk investments but often are not so.† With a dearth of investment alternatives, WMPs have grown incredibly popular in China in the past few years, reaching 13 trillion yuan ($2.1 trillion) at the end of 2012, a 50 percent year-over-year increase, according to Fitch. WMPs have been creating risks in the banking sector and some have called it "ponzi finance": REUTERS To lower these risks, the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) announced three key regulations to monitor WMPs (via Societe Generale's Wei Yao): Yao however thinks banks have been preparing for this, and writes that the new policy isn't intended to "devastate banks, but to cap future risks."
Flickr/ferret111If you watch the budget battles in Washington, it might appear the only discussion about taxes is whether they should be increased, cut, or kept where they are. But policy experts are engaged in a tax conversation that may be more important‚Äîhow to make the tax system simpler and smarter.¬† Currently, terms to describe the current code are more like ‚Äúcomplicated,‚Äù ‚Äúobscure,‚Äù and even ‚Äúunconscionable,‚Äù all of which have appeared in reports by tax policy groups looking at how to fix the system. The cost of navigating this maze to taxpayers and businesses hit $163 billion in 2010, more than 1 percent of GDP. It‚Äôs gotten so bad that small and mid-sized companies have started passing up tax breaks they‚Äôre eligible for because they‚Äôre too confusing and costly to take, according to a report last summer in¬†the¬†Wall Street Journal. Despite the agreement on the need to clean up the tax system, almost every tax law has a constituency that will fight hard to keep it. Intuit, the maker of TurboTax, has spent some $11.5 million lobbying to keep the tax filing process complicated for taxpayers, according to a recent¬†report by ProPublica and NPR. To measure the effectiveness of each tax law, experts have devised several criteria. The U.S. Government Accountability Office, for example, has three measures: (1) a tax law‚Äôs fairness, (2) the extent to which it promotes economic efficiency (that is, provides more economic benefits to society than the private sector would provide on its own), and (3) the degree to which it‚Äôs simple, transparent, and easy to administer by the IRS. Here are ten tax laws that could stand to be revised‚Äîor eliminated all together: 1.¬†The AMT boondoggle:¬†Congress passed¬†the AMT¬†in 1982 to ensure that the well-off pay at least some tax each year. But a report earlier this year from the National Taxpayer Advocate, the watchdog arm of the IRS, says that the AMT doesn‚Äôt achieve that goal at all--many middle- and upper-middle-class taxpayers pay the AMT, while most wealthy taxpayers don‚Äôt. And thousands of millionaires pay no income tax at all. Meanwhile, the AMT makes calculating what you owe the government far more complex than it used to be since taxpayers essentially have to compute their tax liabilities twice‚Äîonce under the regular tax rules and again under the AMT, says the report. Congress at least permanently indexed the AMT for inflation in passing the fiscal cliff deal on January 3. But that doesn‚Äôt make it a better tax‚Äîit just limits the number of those in the middle class whom the AMT hits. 2.¬†The pro sports subsidy:¬†Current tax law allows the National Football League, Professional Golfers‚Äô Association, and National Hockey League to operate as nonprofits. You read right‚Äîthe NFL, which generated $184 million from its teams and held more than $1 billion in assets in 2010, pays no federal income tax. According to Waste Book 2012, an annual report by Republican Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, the NFL gets its tax-free status under a provision of the code that allows industry and trade groups like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to qualify. Cost to the taxpayers? At least $91 million a year just for the NFL and NHL, according to the Waste Book. 3.¬†Byzantine tax phase-outs:¬†If our tax returns are needlessly complicated, one reason is the use of phase-outs, says the nonpartisan Urban-Brookings¬†Tax Policy Center. These are tax exemptions and credits that get limited as a taxpayer‚Äôs income rises, with the goal of providing more help to people at lower incomes. But they make figuring out what effect an extra dollar of income will have on the taxes you owe almost impossible. The center notes, for example, that the tax code reduces the $1,000-per-child tax credit by 5 percent of adjusted gross income over $75,000 for single parents. The share of expenses allowed for the child care credit falls from 35 percent to 20 percent as adjusted gross increases from $15,000 to $43,000. And single taxpayers with an adjusted gross above $55,000 may not deduct the interest they pay on student loans. For a more progressive tax structure, the National Taxpayer Advocate recommends further adjusting the marginal tax rates‚Äîand killing the phase-outs. 4.¬†The high-tech loophole:¬†The Government Accountability Office notes that there‚Äôs a legitimate place for governments to subsidize research that benefits society but doesn‚Äôt turn a profit. But there‚Äôs no reason for companies to get a subsidy for research and development that they would have done anyway, says the GAO. That‚Äôs exactly what happens now‚Äîcompanies like Microsoft, Boeing, and Harley Davidson have taken the research and development tax credit and written off the cost of designing profitable new technologies, products, and processes, notes tax watchdog Taxpayers for Common Sense.http://doeren.com/blog/tag/research-and-development-tax-credits/ 5.¬†The convoluted capital gains tax:¬†The Tax Policy Center notes¬†capital gains income is subject to at least eight different effective tax rates, depending on the taxpayer‚Äôs regular tax rate, how long an asset was owned, the type of asset, and whether the taxpayer owes AMT‚Äî one of the three IRS worksheets used to calculate the tax runs to 37 lines. It‚Äôs gotten even more complex in 2013 with a new 3.8 percent Medicare surtax rate starting on those with an adjusted gross income of $200,000 single or $250,000 married. The center favors cutting the thicket of paperwork by allowing a percentage exclusion of capital gains income for long-term gains (to encourage savings) and applying regular tax rates to the rest. 6.¬†Special treatment for Hollywood:¬†At a time when movie studios Time Warner and News Corp. both recorded 2012 profits of about $1.2 billion, it might seem odd that they need a special favor in the tax code. But they got one anyway‚Äîas part of the¬†fiscal cliff deal, Congress and the White House renewed special expensing rules for film and TV production. Under that provision, filmmakers and TV studios have the option of immediately deducting (as opposed to writing off over the normal 15 to 39 years) up to $15 million in program production costs as long as 75 percent of the costs are for services performed in the U.S. That may have started out as an effort to keep film and television production at home, but now it amounts to a tax subsidy to Hollywood worth $225 million a year, according to Taxpayers for Common Sense. 7.¬†Tangled education savings subsidies:¬†At least 11 separate incentives in the code encourage taxpayers to save for higher education, according to the National Taxpayer Advocate‚Äôs report. All have different eligibility requirements, definitions of terms, income thresholds, and other features. In Congressional testimony last summer, the GAO noted that in 2008 (the latest year data were available) some taxpayers didn‚Äôt take the higher education deductions they were eligible for because of their complexity. The Taxpayer Advocate report recommends consolidating the incentives and harmonizing definitions to make it easier for taxpayers to determine eligibility and calculate benefits. 8.¬†The home price inflation incentive:¬†The mortgage interest deduction allows homeowners to deduct interest on up to $1.1 million in mortgage debt. Though the deduction‚Äôs rationale is encouraging homeownership, in a report last fall, the GAO noted that it‚Äôs more likely prospective buyers are figuring the deduction into the prices they‚Äôre already willing to pay for homes, pushing their costs up artificially, says the agency. Many economists and the Simpson Bowles Commission have proposed at least modifying the interest deduction so that it benefits middle- to lower-income taxpayers, who are those most likely to actually need help buying a home. The Congressional Budget Office, for example, has proposed a number of options, including converting the deduction to a tax credit and lowering the current $1.1 million cap to $500,000. 9.¬†Overlapping retirement savings tax incentives:¬†Sixteen separate incentives are jammed into the code to encourage taxpayers to save for retirement, notes the National Taxpayer Advocate‚Äôs report. All have different rules about eligibility, contribution limits, the taxation of contributions and distributions, and so forth. So for example, a single taxpayer earning under $28,750 can get both a tax deduction and a tax credit for an IRA contribution‚Äîthe regular IRA deduction, plus a tax credit called the Saver‚Äôs Credit, worth up to $1,000. But a 2012 survey found that less than 20 percent of people had heard of the¬†Saver‚Äôs Credit‚Äîlittle wonder with so many choices to keep track of. The Tax Policy Center recommends combining the existing options into fewer alternatives‚Äîthat would make workers‚Äô choices easier and cut the cost of administering so many duplicative rules, the center says. 10.¬†Gimmicky tax sunsets:¬†Congress increasingly passes tax subsidies that are time limited to make their long-term costs to the government look artificially lower, says the National Taxpayer Advocate‚Äôs report‚Äîthe number of these sunsetting subsidies grew from about 21 in 1992 to more than a hundred at the end of 2011. But they make it hard for taxpayers and businesses to plan since its often unclear whether Congress will extend them. Dozens were set to expire before the fiscal cliff deal at the end of 2012, like the numerous energy-related incentives and a deduction for school expenses teachers pay out of pocket. ¬† More from The Fiscal Times:
Google Today, Google confirmed that it is going into the same-day delivery business--at least for a 6-month test in the San Francisco Bay Area. The new service is called Google Shopping Express. Judging by a picture that Google included on the page announcing the service†(see above),†Google Shopping Express will feature well-dressed, neatly coiffed people driving around in Google delivery vans delivering stuff. GoogleGoogle has included nine retailer logos on its Shopping Express site, including Target, Walgreens, Office Depot, and Toys R Us. These are presumably some of the retailers that those who order home delivery can buy stuff from. Google is also recruiting "testers" to get free delivery for the entire 6-month pilot. So if you live in the Bay area, and you want free delivery from these and other stores, go sign up. Google has also included a form asking what other stores you would like to get stuff delivered from--so it looks as though the company will be adding other retailers soon. And Google is also recruiting other retailers. So, what gives? Why is Google going into this business? Well, presumably, Google is going into this business for a couple of reasons: So, in short, it's a big opportunity--and it's an opportunity that, if ceded to someone else, could eventually reduce Google's value in the local commerce supply chain. Google But... Local ecommerce delivery is yet another huge, complex business that is about as different a business from Google's core business as any business could be. And how many huge complex businesses can one company really be in and expect to be good at? Right now, Google is already in the following operating businesses: And now Google wants to go into the local delivery business? Isn't Google in the midst of killing off products people love (Google Reader) because it wants to focus? Yes, Google is an amazingly talented company. Yes, Google is a company with almost unfathomable financial resources. Yes, Google is a company with vast, diverse ambitions. But local delivery? Local delivery, needless to say, is a brutally competitive, capital intensive, low-margin business. And Google doesn't know the first thing about it.† GoogleSo, yes, there are strategic reasons why Google might want to go into this business--both offensive and defensive. And, yes, it is theoretically possible to envision a future in which everything will be searched for and ordered on Google mobile phones and computerized glasses and delivered by self-driving Google trucks.† But there are limits as to how much any one company can do. And Google is already doing a heck of a lot. Google deserves a huge amount of credit for continuing to use some of its cash mountain to experiment with new businesses. But this is yet another new business in which Google will be facing off against other vast, talented companies with massive financial resources and more relatted expertise. So if anyone wants to explain to me how Google is going to be able to do local delivery better than everyone else while also doing all these other things better than everyone else, I'm all ears.†But in the meantime, I'll be scratching my head...
ReutersLots of people are talking about a new study that links injecting wastewater from oil drilling into the ground with the largest earthquake instrumentally recorded in Oklahoma. While the drilling technique referenced in the study did not itself involve fracking, wastewater injection is also a common part of fracking.¬† Researchers from Oklahoma and Columbia universities found that over time, depositing used-up drilling fluid into the ground may have snapped geological tension that had built up near rural Prague, Oklahoma, causing a 5.7 quake that destroyed 14 homes and injured two. ¬† The authors also write that the number of large earthquakes in and around the center of the country has skyrocketed in recent years. Here's exactly how they put it: Earthquakes with Mw¬†‚â• 5.0 [larger than 5.0 on the Richter scale ‚Äî ed.] are rare in the United States east of the Rocky Mountains; however, the number per year recorded in the midcontinent increased 11-fold between 2008 and 2011, compared to 1976‚Äì2007. Of the total seismic moment released in the region, ~66% occurred in 2011 (from the GCMT). ¬† This echoes findings from a 2012 USGS study that found the frequency of earthquakes greater than or equal to Mw 3.0 had picked up six fold between 2001 and 2011 compared to the average for the 20th century. The USGS authors say the increase "was¬†almost certainly manmade," though add, "it remains to be determined how they are related to either changes in extraction methodologies or the rate of oil and gas production." The authors of the Oklahoma study, meanwhile, are even more reluctant to say humans are responsible for the increase.¬† Indeed scientifically proving an exact one-to-one connection is probably impossible. But the new study provides further evidence that something new is going on. Correction: The drilling technique discussed in the study did not involve fracking.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Two Things Tell Us Something's Wrong With The Stock Market (Barron's)  Despite the recent ups and downs, we've largely seen a rising trend. With stocks hitting all-time highs many expect a correction. Michael Kahn at Barron's expects this trend to change for two key reasons. First, stocks (risk assets) and the U.S. dollar and treasuries (safe haven assets) are both moving in the same direction.¬† "But when the refuges from risk‚Äîthe greenback and Treasuries‚Äîmove higher in price in tandem with risk assets, it seems more likely that one side or the other is going to change soon. In the battle between stocks and bonds, I have found it is usually better to side with bonds." The other is the weakness in home-building sector as seen through the iShares Dow Jones U.S. Home Construction Index (ITB). Advisors Are Using Personality Tests When Hiring (The Wall Street Journal) Advisors are turning to behavioral assessment tests before they hire new candidates. Oregon based Jensen Investment Management for instance requires all candidates to meet with an organizational psychologist before joining the team.¬† "An otherwise very talented candidate could get turned down if the wrong traits show up in the psychologist's report, which covers aspects of personality, intellectual and emotional functioning, preferences in being managed and the kind of environment in which the candidate would flourish," says David G. Mertens, principal. The S&amp;P 500 Priced In Gold Is Not Near Its All-Time High (PricedInGold.com) PricedInGold.com ¬† Two Things Are Supporting Bond Prices (Advisor Perspectives) There has been no great rotation out of bonds, and the stock market rally has been driven by a move from cash. So there are two things supporting bond prices right now, according to Blackrock's Russ Koesterich. 1. The Fed is expected to maintain its asset purchase program atlas until mid-2013. 2. There is a shortage of new supply of bonds. "The bottom line is, while I expect rates to continue to rise, I would stick with a year-end target of 2.25-2.50% for the 10 year Treasury note. But the backup in yield is likely to be a slow affair, with a lot of backing and filling. "In short, I still believe that with duration or rate sensitivity at historic highs, investors should avoid the long-end of the Treasury curve and instead accept marginally more credit risk, with a focus on high yield, bank loans, and emerging market debt." Margin Expansion Is The Reason U.S. Stocks Have Outperformed Global Stocks (Morgan Stanley) Morgan Stanley's Gerard Minack says global stocks have underperformed U.S. stocks in the past two years because of earnings growth. Though growth in emerging markets has far outpaced the U.S., the latter has seen margin expansion and this is because of declining labor costs. Jordan Tanner, Morgan Stanley Research
Wikimedia CommonsColumbia UniversityToday is the day high school seniors find out whether they were accepted to some of the country's top schools. Admissions decisions for the Ivy League schools went live at 5pm EST, and acceptance rates at the most selective schools were expected to hit record lows. While not every college has released acceptance statistics yet,¬†Princeton said it had offered admission to 7.3 percent of almost 26,500 applicants, and Columbia accepted 6.89 percent of the more than 33,500 students who applied, Bloomberg reported. In comparison, Columbia's acceptance rate was 7.4 percent in 2012, and Princeton's was 7.9 percent. The University of Pennsylvania admitted 3,785 students, for an admit rate of 12.1 percent, the admissions office told us. That's slightly lower than the school's acceptance rate of 12.3 percent last year. The applicant pool at Penn included 31,280 students, a marginal increase over last year. Brown admitted 9.2 percent of its applicant pool of¬†28,919 students, a slightly lower admit rate than last year's rate of 9.6 percent. Students from all 50 states and 83 countries were accepted, the university said. Yale College made admission offers to 1,991 students, selected from a record-high 29,610 applicants. Its acceptance rate was 6.7 percent, compared to an acceptance rate of 6.8 percent in 2012. An additional 1,001 students were placed on the waitlist, the college said. Cornell received more than 40,000 applications for slots in the class of 2017¬†‚Äî the highest number ever. It accepted 15.2 percent of applications, compared with 16.2 percent in 2012, the university said. Dartmouth admitted 10 percent of its applicants, or¬†2,252 students. 39.4 percent were valedictorians of their high school classes, and¬†8.8 percent are sons and daughters of Dartmouth College alumni, the school said. Last year, it admitted 9.4 percent of applicants. Harvard admitted¬†5.8 percent of its 35,023 applicants for the class of 2017, according to The Crimson. It admitted 5.9 percent of applicants the previous year.
The S&amp;P 500 just hit an all-time closing high, and the Dow has been hitting and breaching its record high in recent weeks. But the stock market rally has had a "limited effect on the public's economic outlook because they are not what affect peopleís personal financial situation," according to a PEW survey.†  Of those surveyed, only 23 percent say the stock market has a major impact on household finances. 33 percent said it had "very little" effect, and 40 percent said it had no effect at all.† Instead, 64 percent said their household finances were impacted by gas prices, and 58 percent said they were impacted by the prices of food and other consumer goods. Here's the chart from PEW that shows the impact of inflation, real estate, and the stock market on their household finances. PEW Research Meanwhile, those invested in the stock market have benefited. 58 percent says their investments have increased "a little" while 13 percent said they've increased "a lot". 22 percent said they lost money.

The following image is going viral today (via Freebeacon's Lachlan Markay)¬†allegedly showing that the government has possibly, by coincidence, made the colors on new U.S. dollar denominations identical to their Monopoly money counterparts: Reddit¬† The picture was recently posted to reddit, but has been around since at least 2011.¬†The denominations shown started coming out in 2003. So is it true that the currency really matches like that? Our conclusion is: Sort of. Whoever made the above image appears to have enhanced the color of real currency a bit to make it match. Below is what U.S. currency actually looks like, via the government's own, unadulterated images on NewMoney.gov, versus what we'll call the reddit versions (we excluded the one dollar bill, which was not part of the new currency series). Fed: newmoney.gov And the reddit version: reddit Fed: newmoney.gov Reddit: reddit Fed: newmoney.gov Reddit: reddit Fed: newmoney.gov Reddit: reddit That last one, the 50, definitely seems to have more blue in the Reddit version. Draw your own conclusions.
Last night on David Letterman, Donald Trump said that he generally thinks the things he says on Twitter are "smart" and "cute", but sometimes they come back to haunt him. Case in point, the Tweets he sent after NY Magazine's Daily Intelligencer blogged about his Letterman interview today. It was a really short piece. All Adam Martin and Caroline Shin did was post the video clip (which you can see here) with this paragraph: David Letterman didn't cut Donald Trump a lot of slack on his show Wednesday night, first bringing up top Forbes billionaire Carlos Slim Helu, whose family's $73 billion fortune trumps Trump's. Trump estimated his own wealth at $9 billion, but Forbes puts it at $3.2 billion, for whatever that's worth. Then Letterman told him, "you have to stop doing business with your buddies in China," and reminded Trump about how often he says "cockeyed things" on Twitter. Trump agreed: "You say things and you think it's so cute and so smart, and it comes back to haunt you." Of course, that happens in real life, too. Maybe you may think this is nothing to write home about, but Trump would obviously disagree. He had some choice Tweets for NY Mag this afternoon. From Donald Trump's Twitter feed: Donald Trump, TwitterIn sum And also this: Donald Trump, Twitter Luckily, NY Mag's Dan Amira had an answer: Dan Amira, Twitter In sum, we should all remember that no one is always "smart" and "cute" on Twitter. Some people, however, will always be extra sensitive about that.
Flickr / Tambako the JaguarStocks ended the first quarter at an all-time high. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,578, +52.3 pts, +0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,569, +6.3 pts, +0.4 percentNASDAQ: 3,267, +11.0 pts, +0.3 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Flickr/skia69If you want ways of saving money, an investment banker may not seem the best source of advice. Believe it or not, however,¬† bankers are changing their spending habits as their bonuses shrink and become allocated over several years. Both bankers and their once free-spending [spouses] are suddenly becoming familiar with the art of thriftiness. For your benefit, we‚Äôve spoken to a selection of current and ex-bankers and to their spouses about how they‚Äôre cutting their personal spending. This is what they have imparted. We hope it is of use. More from eFinancial Careers: How banking can ruin your body and mind¬† How to tell your wife ‚Äì or husband ‚Äì that you got a bad bonus¬† What really happens to bankers who lose their jobs Why hedge fund wives don‚Äôt do Switzerland¬†
infrogmation via FlickrBack in 2008 when the market was in the sewer, Warren Buffett wrote a piece laying out the case for buying American stocks called, "Buy American. I Am." Now that the market seems to be going nowhere but up, an analyst has posted the exact opposite case for stocks on SumZero, a networking site for buy-side researchers. And users are hating it. Ben Michaud, an analyst at a large, New England-based investment firm with several billion in AUM, was kind enough to let SumZero share his slide deck, entitled "Sell American. I Am." Maybe you'll take to it more kindly than SumZero users did. They've rated Michaud's thesis the worst of all time ó0.3 out of 100.00. But perhaps that's because this isn't what anyone wants to hear right now. And for the record, Michaud's firm does not endorse this thesis, it's his own independant work.
A couple of days ago we noted how CNBC host and economist Larry Kudlow has had a pretty big change of heart on monetary policy. Rather than worrying that Bernanke was destroying the dollar, or that inflation or gold was about to soar, he recognized actually that Bernanke's efforts have been helpful, and that ultimately an activist Fed that targeted Nominal GDP could be very useful. As Chris Hayes notes on Twitter, Kudlow's conversion to this school seems to be complete. Kudlow tweeted following today's GDP report: With nominal GDP only 3.5% y/y in today's report, score one for the #MarketMonetarists who want the #Fed to stay loose. Inflation below 2%. We just have to say, people don't change their minds on stuff that often, and it's especially rare when that person is associated with a political ideology. That makes evolving and changing your mind particularly hard. So Kudlow exploring new avenues is pretty cool, and it should restore your faith in humanity that people's brains can change when presented with counterevidence.
Screenshot via CNBCNow that gold isn't doing so hot, it sounds as though Rick Santelli thinks the whole game is rigged. Santelli, who traded gold since 1979, says those investing in gold ETFs are going to end up with checks from ETFs rather than physical gold. His quote from CNBC:  "I don't even look at gold as gold anymore. Gold is just another piece of paper.† Listen, if things go badly in the world that I used to observe as a gold bug, the gold would end up in the hands of the gold bugs. If things go badly now, they're going to end up with checks from ETFs. Sorry, it's not the same. The reign of gold is the Ayn Rand end product. To me, that's over. Game, set, match." It seems that he's suggesting this is causing distortions in the market for gold. In an interview with Santelli last month, trader Frank Lesh said the prevalence of ETFs has attracted people that wouldn't normally be trading gold. At the time, Santelli said: "If you trade in paper, the notion of many who trade gold ó the Ayn Randers ó if the financial world comes to an end, they're going to have the gold. If you're playing in ETFs, you're going to have a piece of paper. So it takes away some of what I perceive are the driving forces behind the run-up in the early stages after the crisis." Watch the video here:  (Via ZeroHedge) 
FacebookDuring the doctom bubble, companies were going public left and right.¬† But in the last decade, there's been a decline in IPOs as a result of regulatory changes and a variety of other factors,¬†Andreessen Horowitz Managing Partner Scott Kupor¬†writes on Marc Andreessen's blog.¬† Those changes, Kupor says, have prevented "ordinary investors from getting in on the wealth creation, and hampers the creation of middle class jobs." ¬† Startups are waiting longer to go public, and raising more venture capital than before. Based on how the investment environment is set up, Kupor argues that it favors venture capitalists and harms ordinary investors. Kupor points to how when Microsoft went public in 1986 at a relatively low $500 million market cap, average Americans who purchased stock at its IPO eventually saw a return of 500x.¬† But with Facebook, which went public at a $100 billion market cap, Americans who bought stock at Facebook's IPO will likely not see a 500x return.¬† That's why Kupor says the government needs to make small capital IPOs more appealing to regular investors. It could do this by going¬†back on its decision to "decimalize" the stock market, Kupor says, which essentially killed the profits from trading small-capitalization stocks. Doing so would "increase liquidity and reduce volatility for small-cap stocks, shocking the small-cap IPO market back to life and breaking the shackles that are holding the middle class," Kupor writes. If IPOs in the United States hadn't dropped in the last decade, the Kaufman Foundation estimates the U.S. would have created 1.9 million new jobs.¬†
Morgan Stanley's Gerard Minack calls outperformance of U.S. stocks versus global stocks "the most obvious feature of global equities over the past two years." What's been driving U.S. outperformance? Earnings. Looking at where those U.S. companies are sourcing their earnings from is an interesting way to look at this. In a note to clients, Minack provides the chart below, which shows earnings expectations for American companies that generate most of their sales at home versus those American companies that generate most of their sales abroad. Jordan Tanner, Morgan Stanley Research "Poor performance of foreign-focused earnings fits the long-standing (and unsurprising) link between growth in America‚Äôs trading partners and foreign-sourced profits," says Minack. Since several of America's largest trading partners are grappling with weak economies, and the U.S. economy is expected to outperform in the coming years, the chart above makes a lot of sense. However, that's only part of the story. Minack points out that "GDP growth in emerging markets has been stronger than in the U.S., but earnings delivery worse over the past two years." The difference is margin expansion, which U.S. companies have experienced plenty of in recent years. And the key to that margin expansion ‚Äì "the single most important factor," according to Minack ‚Äì is falling per-unit labor costs. BEA, Morgan Stanley Research "My colleague, Adam Parker, doubts that margins will improve this year to the extent implied by consensus forecasts for US earnings," concludes Minack. "To the extent that margins have been assisted by fiscal easing, the significant fiscal tightening now being introduced suggests that the gap between US-sourced and foreign-sourced earnings may narrow in coming quarters."
Earlier today, the S&amp;P 500 crossed its all-time closing high. Of course, the naysayers will tell you that it's far from its inflation-adjusted high. And the gold bugs will tell you it's miles away from its gold-adjusted high. Here's a chart from our friends at PricedInGold.com.¬† It's the S&amp;P 500 priced in grams of gold. For what it's worth: PricedInGold.com
The ECB confirmed what the recent anecdotal reports hinted at, namely that deposits have been leaving Cyprus even before the crisis reached the fevered pace a couple of weeks ago.¬†¬† Specifically, earlier today it confirmed that roughly deposits fell by about 1 bln euros in February after a similar draw down in January.¬† In fact, since last May, there has been only one month in which deposits have not fallen. As of the end of February, the ECB data shows there were still 47.4 bln euros of deposits in Cyprus banks. For investors who followed Cyprus closely, since the haircut on private sector holdings on Greek sovereign bonds, the island's banks have been vulnerable and its business model dead in the water.¬† The decline in deposits reflects this realization.¬† We did not follow Cyprus particularly closely, but our analysis pointed to coming storm in December 2012 and in January we warned that the risk of an exit from EMU was greater than the market had realized.¬† There has been further deposit outflows here in March before the bank holiday was declared.¬† This too may not be a case of conspiratorial intrigue.¬† The election was the last hurdle to some raw deal.¬†¬† However, there does seem to be some capital leakage during the bank holiday, which ended today.¬† There was some approved transaction to pay for some imports, for example.¬† There also appears to have been some other outflows not related to deposits or bank accounts per se.¬† Away from Cyprus, the ECB reported that deposits in Greek banks rose by almost 3.5 bln euros to 171.04 bln in February.¬† The 6% increase this year now lifts the deposits above year ago levels.¬† Deposits also rose in Slovenia, Luxembourg and Spain.¬† Deposits were unchanged¬† in Portugal and slipped 0.7% in Italy. ¬†¬† Lending is a different story.¬† The ECB's money supply report showed that private lending fall for the tenth consecutive month in the euro area.¬† This seems to be a reflection of more restrictive lending terms and the destruction of demand by weak economic conditions.¬† Lending by Greek and Spanish banks fell, but they rose 0.3% in Italy.¬†¬† Meanwhile, Italian and Spanish banks continued to buy sovereign bonds in February.¬† In Italy,¬† bond yields bottomed in late January and trended higher through Feb and March.¬† Spanish bond yields rose from mid-January into early February, and then fell again, and new mid-March were at new multi-month lows.¬† Spanish banks bought 7.88 bln euros of sovereign bonds and Italian banks bought 4.79 bln.¬† Of note, French banks bought 11.85 bln of sovereign bonds, almost as much as Spain and Italy combined.¬†        Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
The thought of giving up a once-treasured possession can be an emotional exercise for anyone, even if the object of affection has outlived its use. As investors, we can find it difficult to sell a once-favored holding ‚Äî even more difficult than the decision to purchase it. But sometimes, you just have to let go. I‚Äôve often been asked about my team‚Äôs process, not only in selecting potential opportunities, but also when and how we determine a particular holding may not be worth keeping in a portfolio and bears replacing with something we deem to be a better opportunity. Emotion simply can‚Äôt play a role in our decisions. Instead, we pair bottom-up, rigorous research with step-by-step analysis, first identifying potential bargains within a dataset of more than 25,000 securities, then conducting deep quantitative and qualitative analysis to assess each company‚Äôs long-term value potential.Our quantitative analysis includes five-year historical audited financial statements and five-year forecasts based on projected future normalised earnings, cash flow, or asset value potential. Qualitative analysis covers understanding of the company‚Äôs business, management quality, ownership structure, corporate governance and commitment to creating shareholder value. That includes an understanding of who owns and controls the company, how it operates, and in what markets. As you can see, our research approach is extensive. As I‚Äôve said time and again, we firmly believe an on-the-ground presence is necessary to provide local, first-hand understanding of investment opportunities. Our Templeton Emerging Markets team currently numbers¬†53 investment professionals spread across 18 global offices and visits as many companies as we can‚Äîapproximately 1,500-2,000 per year‚Äî to tour facilities and conduct management interviews. I personally travel more than 250 days a year. Deal Breakers Our ongoing fundamental research drives all buy and sell decisions. Our analysts set a target price for particular stocks based on the intersection of their research and our overall investment philosophy. We review all our holdings regularly to ensure our analyst recommendations are as up-to-date as possible and accurately reflect changes in company fundamentals. As value managers, we seek to invest in companies that are trading at a discount compared to our five-year valuation projections, and we adhere to a strict sell discipline based on valuation thresholds. Any one of the following triggers may cause us to sell stocks: ‚Ä¢ The current security price exceeds our estimation of full value ‚Ä¢ We believe significantly greater value potential exists in another security ‚Ä¢ A fundamental change occurs at a company to alter our forecasts One of our deal breakers includes unhealthy corporate governance. Corporate governance is a very, very important issue to us; we want to ensure the interests of shareholders are being addressed. So the first things we look for are a strong culture and ethical conduct. Getting into the guts of governance means we conduct analysis of ownership structures, the management team‚Äôs track record, the company‚Äôs corporate governance history and its commitment to creating shareholder value. We look for managers who know the business well and have experience in a given field. We track management‚Äôs ability to cope with a rapidly changing business environment, and evaluate whether the risks a company takes seem rational and have the potential to be properly rewarded. Understanding risk is core to our process. A dedicated Performance Analysis and Investment Risk Group (PAIR) team regularly examines our portfolios and analyses the risks. Collaboration is critical, so the members of our investment teams communicate on a daily basis. We also hold weekly peer reviews in which we examine company weightings, ¬†valuations and price targets to ensure a portfolio is managed in accordance with its investment objectives. In addition, the Templeton Emerging Markets Group holds semi-annual meetings to evaluate investment methodology and portfolio performance, optimization of resources, and to discuss portfolio-related themes such as company-specific issues, country-related issues and global industry trends. Volatility and Valuation Emerging markets have traditionally been volatile and can be dominated by retail investor flows and sentiment changes, but we seek to use this volatility to identify potential bargains. We believe strong growth prospects in many emerging markets aren‚Äôt always recognized in equity valuations, and can lag those of developed markets by a considerable margin. As such, select companies or sectors in our portfolios may not perform as we‚Äôd like in a given month or year, but we are long-term investors, not short-term traders and we abide by our sell discipline. Sometimes a falling market tide will drop even the soundest of ships, and that‚Äôs when bargains can be born. But there are times when stocks are priced cheaply because they are distressed. We may invest if we believe these sorts of companies can turn things around, given some time. Even good companies can fall on temporary hard times. We think the best indicator of whether a stock is a good value or has completely lost its luster (what one might call ‚Äúa value trap‚Äù, or fallen but still expensive relative to its intrinsic value) boils down to growth. If we don‚Äôt see any future growth potential, a company isn‚Äôt worth investing in; but if it‚Äôs inexpensive and earnings projections look good then there can be a case to invest. Of course, when a particular stock market is rapidly rising, it can be harder to find individual values. If a stock approaches what we deem to be fair value, we may consider reducing a position. For all our stock-specific analysis, I should add that we do also examine macroeconomic factors in a particular country that support our investment themes, but don‚Äôt tend to be more bullish on one country or region than another, since we focus on individual companies. We believe there are great companies in all countries around the world, and that most markets have at least some attractive stocks. We have maintained the same investment strategy for more than 25 years, and don‚Äôt expect to change. Our team inherited the same investment philosophy and methodology from our founder, Sir John Templeton, who summed up his thinking well with these words: ‚ÄúTo buy when others are despondently selling and to sell when others are buying requires the greatest fortitude and pays the greatest ultimate rewards.‚Äù Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª
By charamelody on FlickrHereís to you, top-tier Ivy League business school. After a grueling, frantic, emotionally draining application period, as well as a  two and a half month period waiting for admissions decisions, the wait is finally over. You even invited me for an interview, for which I flew across country to attend on a red-eye flight on the only date that you had available, which was also my pregnant wifeís due date. No problem, I know where my priorities lie, anything for you. I took time off work to attend every on and off-campus admissions event I possibly could. I networked like a ninja and got alumni recommendations and current student endorsements. I gave this application everything I had and then some, hoping that perhaps a gracious and benevolent deity (Iím not discriminating any particular religion, as I was praying to all of them at this point) would see my hard work and sacrifice and grant me admission. I waited for the admissions decision day with bated breath. I didnít get a wink of sleep the night prior, and who could? This date had been burned in my mind for months. And then it came. I rescheduled all of my meetings, closed my door, and sat in my office waiting for my phone to ring. I had seen this entire scenario play out in my dreams for consecutive nights now. I would sit in my office, and get a phone call from the admissions director (whom Iíve never personally met, but whom I know from watching the admissions videos on repeat). We would chat for a little bit about the exciting months ahead and she would congratulate me again on a job well done. And as I hang up the phone, angel choirs sing and a pepper-haired Tom Brady tells me Iím a champ. Itís played out so perfectly in my mind every time. And there in my office I sat, waiting. But the phone call never came. I got your email around 3pm. And unfortunately, you were unable to offer me admission to your business school at this time. What you donít see is how furious this makes me. No matter how much bullshit you try to feed me about ìso many qualified applicantsî and how it ìdoesnít reflect personally on you or your professional achievementsî, Iím not buying it. Letís call a spade a spade. I wasnít good enough to get in your program. Whether it was my grades, my gmat score, essays, interview. It doesnít matter. You just gave me the academia-equivalent of ìitís not you, itís meî and Iím supposed to pretend itís not personal? What you donít see is my ever-depreciating self-worth. This was supposed to be my ticket to a career in finance, a new beginning for my family and me. I come home and unsuccessfully try to crack a smile before kissing my wife hello. She knew that today was the day. And now she, too, knows the result. I hold my newborn daughter in my arms. Iím sorry I let you down, honey. This was supposed to be for them. This was supposed to be about giving them a better life than they have now. I crumple down on to my bed, too exhausted and drained for words, knowing that I died a little inside today. What you donít see is me dusting myself off and picking myself up off the pavement. At this point Iíve resolved that your denial of admission is not going to be the end of my pursuit of a career in finance. Itís going to be a new beginning. For the whole letter head to Wall Street Oasis&gt;
Flickr / sk12Nicosia, CyprusThe buzzword for the Cyprus story this morning is "calm." Despite banks reopening today, there was no panic, just a few long lines scattered among packs of journalists. A better word, though, might be "paralyzed." We just spoke by phone with George†Christodoulou, manager of Press Cafe, a coffee shop on the main drag in Nicosia's Old City. He repeatedly said that everyone is worried. They're worried about their jobs, their pensions, their livelihoods ó everything. You don't need to riot in the street to express fear.† As he quipped to us, "Business is a bit strained right now." He confirmed what we reported earlier, that the reason why people aren't emptying the shelves is that they can't ó capital controls have temporarily stunted all commerce. He did acknowledge that prior to the crisis, many Cypriots had been living too large. "People need to start living differently ó reduce their expenses, live with less," he said. He corroborated our report yesterday, that anyone who has the means to is seriously contemplating leaving the country. Cyprus has basically been in a depression since the Greek crisis began several years ago. † So while the crisis has become more acute in the past two weeks, things could still be even worse, Christodoulou said. "I'm not happy, but I can't be sad either. My health is more important than these things." We're glad to hear it.
The new king of Wall Street has a bearish outlook about a construction site a block away from his $23.7 million penthouse. Richard Handler ó who out-earned all other banking bigwigs last year with a $58 million pay package ó wants to stop the renovation of the former Verizon building, including the construction of a booze-friendly rooftop lounge, at 50 Varick St. because it'll ruin the panoramic view from his posh pad. Handler filed a petition in Manhattan Supreme Court Tuesday to halt a London ad agency's plans to turn four floors at 50 Varick into a creative center, including a rooftop event space serving liquor and food. Handler, who made the petition under his limited liability company Raesky, fears that the planned roof deck and bar area will ruin the northwest view from his penthouse at 1 York St. "The project will significantly obstruct the panoramic river views from [Handler's] apartment," the petition says. He's also worried about the noise and light pollution from the nearly 119-foot building, according to the petition. The ad agency, Spring Studios, has sought a liquor license and its application in November said the venue could hold more than 3,000 people, play live music and stay open until 4 a.m., seven days a week, according to Handler's petition. "Use of the building roof deck as an outdoor event space and its concomitant noise will impair the use and value of [Handler's] apartment," the petition says. The liquor license has also met stiff opposition from Community Board 1. Spring Studios has revamped its liquor license application since November. Last week it told board members it will limit the number of events on the deck and work with the community to address any concerns. On Feb. 28 Handler's lawyers met with a deputy commissioner of the Department of Buildings to express their concerns and to request an audit of Spring Studios' plans. The commissioner has since assigned a plan examiner to look over the project, according to the petition. The petition names the building's owner, 50 Varick LLC, its contractors and the DOB as defendants. It asks a judge for an order to halt construction while the DOB conducts its audit. Handler is the CEO of investment firm Jefferies Group. In 2012 the finance titan took home $19 million plus $39 million in stock incentives over the next three years. The huge pay package bested the earnings of his peers at Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase. Handler purchased the penthouse in 2010, using Raesky LLC. The pad has floor-to-ceiling windows and was designed by renowned architect Enrique Norten. The DOB did not immediately return a call for comment about the audit. Bradford Sussman, a lawyer for Spring Studios, said the matter was between Handler and 50 Varick's owner. "As tenants, Spring Studios is not named or involved in this action," he said. "This is a matter between the landlord, the Department of Buildings and the complainant." Handler's lawyers did not immediately return a call for comment.
APThe Kansas City Fed's latest monthly report on regional business conditions is out. The headline index rose to -5 from last month's brutal -10 reading. Economists had predicted that it would rise to -3. Any number below zero indicates contraction, so today's release indicates a continued slowdown, albeit less severe than it was last month. The table below shows the changes in the sub-components that drove the move in the headline index. Kansas City FedClick to enlarge Below are selected responses to the survey on the state of the regional economy: ‚ÄúUntil the final rules of our cost for healthcare are known, we are not hiring. The increased cost of unemployment benefits has also kept us from hiring.‚Äù ‚ÄúOur customers continue to buy ‚Äúas required‚Äù. They are not stocking anything.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe continued uncertainty resulting from macro-economic conditions and a lack of faith in the existing administration‚Äôs ability to recognize and appropriately respond to such conditions (deficit, federal spending, sequestration, etc.), has us continuing an exceptionally cautious path for investment and growth potential.‚Äù ‚ÄúI see no potential increase in normal business until the economy improves.‚Äù ‚ÄúOur customers are preparing for the increased healthcare costs and higher petroleum costs. We have received notices preparing for large increases in raw material costs, and we have purchased more materials recently as a result. We have had an unusually good volume of business this winter but we are leery about the activity this summer.‚Äù ‚ÄúTechnically skilled workers are seeing significantly greater pay raises than lower skilled (10 percent versus 2 percent).‚Äù ‚ÄúThe energy field in our area seems to have taken a lot of employees at higher wages.‚Äù ‚ÄúOrders for new gas compressor packages continue to be strong and have been this way for many years. No downturn is in sight even with depressed commodity prices.‚Äù Click here for the full release &gt;
Bloomberg is reporting: The $616 million settlement SAC Capital reached with the SEC over insider trading allegations may not be a done deal. Judge Victor Marrero, presiding over the insider trading case against SAC, says that the "ground is shaking" on the agreement because he questions the fact that SAC would not have to admit wrongdoing as the settlement stands now. It's a practice that's been questioned by Judges more and more since the start of the financial crisis. The SEC came to the record settlement with the embattled hedge fund earlier this month.¬† It's meant to address allegations that one of SAC's subsidiaries,¬†CR Intrinsic, used inside information to inform trades on four different companies, Dell, Nvidia Corp and drug makers Elan Corp and Wyeth Inc, now a part of Pfizer. It all seemed open and shut once the deal was announced. The only thing left was the Judge's approval, and now that's been thrown into questions. Settlement or no, it's important to note that this does not clear SAC for any other allegations the SEC may bring (or has already brought) against the firm. So we'll see what happens.
Flickr / jonathanrchang The S&amp;P 500 just surpassed its all-time closing high of 1565.15, set in October 2007. The index traded north of 1565 momentarily to 1565.40, but just dipped back below 1565. The S&amp;P 500 is just a few points away from its record intraday high of 1576.09, also reached in October 2007. The Dow Jones Industrial Average surpassed its previous all-time high earlier in March.
Wikimedia CommonsThere's been a story circulating this week that the first-ever 'Bitcoin ATM' will be installed in Cyprus¬†to capitalize on the country's financial meltdown.¬† We'll spare the names of those who've been sharing and Tweeting this "news"... But this is not news in anyway. It's just a press release. The story comes from an announcement¬†from Jeff Berwick, founder of StockHouse.com as well as a website called The Dollar Vigilante.¬† The project premise is based on the notion that Cyprus' banking sector would cease to function and that a Bitcoin ATM would save the day. And yet the Cyprus banking system is functioning again, and ATMs have been functioning the whole time.  Here's the key text: Upon examination of the marketplace and many discussions with Justin O‚ÄôConnell (TDV Newsletter¬†&amp;¬†Gold Silver Bitcoin), as well as another key strategic partner of ours, I have decided to move forward with what I believe could be the next multi-billion dollar business venture:¬†Bitcoin ATM. The Bitcoin ATM page is extremely vague and says it's seeking investors/partners, which means there's no actual product yet. The announcement continues: But that isn‚Äôt all. It is wholly our intention at Bitcoin ATM to put the company in the right position to open its very first ATM in Cyprus. If we did this now, and we are moving quickly to make this so, we would be the only functioning ATM on the island. Again, that's false. Berwick also put out a press release that is just as hazy.¬† His¬†Wikipedia¬†page also re-states the Bitcoin ATM claim, but the source¬†links back to the press release.¬† Another alarm bell for us is that while Berwick¬†boasts of StockHouse.com's large market cap at the height of the tech bubble, he says he sold it in 2002. We've tried calling the number listed at the bottom of The Dollar Vigilante's website for the past two days and have received no response. A Bitcoin ATM sounds like a cool idea, and we urge Jeff or one of his colleagues to contact us to tell us more about it. Here's the full press release if you're interested: Jeff Berwick, founder of StockHouse.com and CEO of TDV Media,¬†announced¬†Monday his plans to open the world‚Äôs first Bitcoin ATM in Cyprus, citing the ongoing bank bailout, bank closures and capital controls now being pushed in that country. According to Berwick, who sold Stockhouse last decade which at the peak of the tech bubble was worth $240 million, Bitcoin ATM has the world‚Äôs first software enabling a two-way, automated Bitcoin market. Last Friday, Cyprus announced a new bailout all inclusive of a levy of upwards of 15.26% on all deposits. On Monday, the banks shut down until Thursday, but by week‚Äôs end uncertainty shrouded the country as to when their ATMs would be back online. Over the weekend, it was announced the bank‚Äôs second biggest bank would be shutdown. Interest in Bitcoin has soared, especially in southern Europe. As Yahoo!¬†reports, downloads of Bitcoin-related apps started rising in Spain over the weekend. For instance, Bitcoin Gold spiked in the Spanish iPhone Finance category from 498 to 72, while another app called Bitcoin Ticket zoomed from 526-52 in just one day. Leading service, Bitcoin App, jumped from 194 to 151 from Friday and Sunday while Spaniards took notice of Cyprus. Fox Business news¬†wrote¬†that Bitcoin ‚Äúis emerging as an apparent winner from the drama surrounding the bailout of tiny Cyprus.‚Äù With Bitcoin ATM, Jeff Berwick announced plans to place a bi-directional (bitcoin for cash, cash for bitcoin) dispenser as part of the launch of his latest venture. Over the weekend, he¬†hinted¬†at his venture in his blog for the Dollar Vigilante: "I've even recently relayed to TDV subscribers that I see bitcoin-related businesses as being the next multi-billion dollar (or multi-million bitcoin) businesses and will be relaying many of my business ideas to them over the coming weeks. And, to top it off, we have already started some game-changing bitcoin businesses that I think will shock the world. I'll be announcing one of them, related to the crisis in Cyprus, on Monday here at the TDV blog." According to the website, Bitcoin ATM is seeking investments and licensees to bring their technology to a town or city near you. You can email the company directly at bitcoinatm(at)bitcoinatm(at)com.
REUTERS/Ajay VermaIndia's current account deficit hit a record high of 6.7 percent of GDP in Q3, according to the latest release by the Reserve Bank of India. This is up from 5.4 percent of GDP the previous quarter. While exports didn't register "any significant growth", imports were up 9.4 percent driven by imports of gold and oil.† The central bank didn't quantify the increase in gold imports but the government has for sometime blamed them for the rise in the nation's current account deficit. Last year's budget saw the government double gold import taxes for the second time in a year, to curb demand. This caused India's gold demand to plummet at the time. India's former finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said last year that the country needs more "financial literacy" and people need to move their money into other assets. At the time, he said: "Quantum of import of gold ... is a clear indication (that) large section of community...want investment in dead asset only with expectation that value would appreciate "ÖMy request to financial analysts and other experts and leaders in this field is to ensure than we can create confidence in market, spread financial literacy, and merit of investment could be widely spread." In a report last month, Moody's warned that "external debt has been the major source of current account financing," and that the country's external debt was rising and is "now growing faster than GDP." This chart from Moody's shows the rise in both gold and oil imports in India: Moody's Some analysts argue that the contribution of gold and oil imports to current account deficit is overstated, but that they do weaken the rupee. Some economists expect the current account deficit to narrow in coming quarters. Gold bugs should however watch how India, currently the world's largest gold market, responds to its current account deficit.
The Fine Young GentlemanEditor's note: Spring is here and that means summer is just around the corner.† We asked one of our favorite men's fashion bloggers Justin Jeffers, who runs The Fine Young Gentleman, to share some of his favorite trends for the season.† We've included his top 12 trends in the slides that follow.†
We recently had Peter Orszag (Citi Vice Chair and former Obama OMB director) in the office for a discussion on the U.S. budget. In a previous clip he explained the flawed assumptions behind the Paul Ryan budget. In this clip he offers his own ideas for the budget. Orszag favors a continued payroll tax holiday that's expiration is connected to the labor market. For the long term, he puts forth a Social Security reform that he thinks liberals could get behind. It would involve taxing a higher level of wages (to account for wage inflation) while also making benefits more progressive.¬† Produced by Business Insider Video
REUTERS / Yorgos KarahalisA man tries to look inside a branch of Laiki Bank a few hours before the reopening of the banks on the island in Nicosia March 28, 2013.Banks in Cyprus reopened for the first time since March 16 today. Reporters crowded around banks, prepared to cover a rush. However, they were probably disappointed.† The reopening has been very orderly, and there are no signs of panic or a massive run on the banks. As is well known, regulators have imposed capital controls to prevent runs from happening.† Among other things, they have limited cash withdrawals to 300 euros. So, if there's going to be any action in Cyprus, it'll likely happen in seven days when the capital controls are lifted. Here's TD Securities' Richard Gilhooly on the matter: ...Capital controls were lengthened to 7 days from 4 and only after controls are lifted would it be clear what the true ramifications are. If controls are in fact lifted after 7 days, large deposits from overseas customers are highly likely to be withdrawn, assuming they have another haven to move to. This impact has merely been delayed, not avoided, and will possibly be seen 7 days from now. Should the numbers surprise to the upside, it may well be that controls are re-imposed and then it becomes clear that the capital controls are a disaster prevention mechanism that temporarily hold the parts in place before they disintegrate. Capital controls are officially not part of the fabric of the Euro as per Article 63 of the TFEU, although there are exceptions in terms of national security. The hope seems to be that capital controls can be held in place until people forget about what happened and then go about business as usual, with perhaps 10% or so capital outflows assumed... So, we'll have to check back next week.
Flickr/Jason H. SmithThe March¬†Chicago PMI survey is out. The headline index fell to 52.4 from 56.8 last month. Economists were expecting a much slighter moderation to 56.5. The production sub-component plummeted to 51.8 from 60.2, marking its lowest reading since September 2009. The new orders sub-component also fell sharply ‚Äì to 53.0 from 60.2 ‚Äì the largest monthly drop since May 2011. However, any reading above 50 on the index still indicates expansion, which means manufacturing activity in the Midwest still grew at a decent clip in March (just not as fast as in February). Click here for the full release &gt;
The housing market in the Northeast has been one of the slowest to recover. And now we have another worrisome indicator. New York posted a nearly 130 percent year-over-year surge in foreclosure inventory in the first quarter, according to RealtyTrac's latest report. This compares with a nine percent rise in overall U.S. foreclosure inventory. The rise has been attributed in part to New York's judicial foreclosure process that can last 445 days (15 months). At 15,212, New York was the fifth largest zombie foreclosure state, in which the owner had vacated the home and moved. This chart shows the 10 states with the biggest increases in overall foreclosure inventory: RealtyTrac Moreover, in New York both listed and unlisted foreclosure inventory were up. The former was driven entirely by an increase in pre-foreclosure sales. Meanwhile, New York's unlisted foreclosure inventory (where homes are not listed for sale) jumped 129 percent on the year. RealtyTrac
Walter Hickey/BISeveral days ago, we published a slide deck of 12 math problems designed to stir up controversy.† The response was enormous ó millions of clicks, more than a hundred comments, and a barrage of angry emails. One problem, however, caused by far the most dissent: The Monty Hall Problem, a problem inspired by the famous game show Let's Make A Deal. Here, we'll go into even more detail to prove one of the most contested ideas in all of math.† If you didn't get it on the first go around, don't worry. Even Paul Erdos, one of the most respected and prolific mathematicians in history, didn't believe the result until he saw a computer simulation.† This one goes out to all the Monty Hall "Truthers" out there. You know who you are. †
Steve Cohen's not going to let a little heat from the Feds ruin his lifestyle. The billionaire founder of hedge fund SAC Capital bought a $155 million Picasso from Steve Wynn earlier this week. Now Peter Lattman over at Dealbook says that he's also bought an oceanfront Hamptons house for $60 million. This is all on top of a $616 fine SAC Capital was just ordered to pay the SEC to settle insider trading charges, according to Reuters. A few things about the house: It has a pool, tennis court, media room etc. but the most important thing about it is that it has an ocean view. See, Cohen already has a house in the same area, the super elite Further Lane. He bought his old house in 2007, but tragically, its ocean view is obscured by fellow hedge fund manager Jim Chanos' house. So obviously Cohen had to do something. Lattman also reports that Cohen may sell his Midtown Manhattan apartment in Bloomberg Tower (he also has one in the West Village) for $115 million. If he does, it will be the most expensive property ever sold in NYC, beating the current record held by Russian oligarch Dmitry Rybolovlev, who bought former Citi head Sandy Weill's $88 million apartment for his daughter last year.
Chris ArnadeFormer Citigroup forex trader Chris Arnade left his Wall Street job to pursue photography full-time.¬† Arnade spends his time in the Hunts Point neighborhood of the Bronx¬†learning the stories of dealers, addicts, prostitutes and pimps and taking their pictures. ¬† Arnade was kind enough to share some of his photos from his 'My Favorite' album on Flickr. These pictures of adults and children in the Bronx, Queens and Brooklyn and probably in some areas that most people in New York City have never visited.¬†We've included the photographs in the slides that follow. Pictures and stories are all from Chris Arnade. ¬†You can follow Arnade on Twitter, Facebook and Flickr.¬†
USS HansonThe final release for fourth-quarter U.S. GDP is out. GDP rose 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter, slightly below economists' estimates of a 0.5 percent advance. (The prior estimate released at the end of February predicted only 0.1 percent growth.) Personal consumption growth came in at 1.8 percent, below economists' estimates of a 2.1 percent advance, which is also what the February reading predicted. The 0.4 percent advance in the American economy in the fourth quarter is down from the 3.1 percent expansion in Q3. Below is a summary of the data¬†from the release: Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and services produced by labor and property¬†located in the United States -- increased at an annual rate of 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012¬†(that is, from the third quarter to the fourth quarter), according to the "third" estimate released by the¬†Bureau of Economic Analysis. In the third quarter, real GDP increased 3.1 percent. The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete source data than were available for¬†the "second" estimate issued last month. In the second estimate, real GDP increased 0.1 percent. While¬†nonresidential fixed investment is higher than previously estimated, the revision to GDP has not¬†changed the general picture of the economy (for more information, see "Revisions" on page 3). The increase in real GDP in the fourth quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from¬†personal consumption expenditures (PCE), nonresidential fixed investment, and residential fixed¬†investment that were partly offset by negative contributions from private inventory investment, federal¬†government spending, exports, and state and local government spending. Imports, which are a¬†subtraction in the calculation of GDP, decreased. The deceleration in real GDP in the fourth quarter primarily reflected downturns in private¬†inventory investment, in federal government spending, in exports, and in state and local government¬†spending that were partly offset by an upturn in nonresidential fixed investment, a larger decrease in¬†imports, and an acceleration in PCE. Motor vehicle output added 0.18 percentage point to the fourth-quarter change in real GDP after¬†subtracting 0.25 percentage point from the third-quarter change. Final sales of computers added 0.10¬†percentage point to the fourth-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.11 percentage point to the¬†third-quarter change. Click here for the full release &gt;
Initial weekly unemployment claims jumped to 357k during the week ending March 23, 2013. Economists were expecting a reading of 340k. To make things worse, last week's number was revised up to 341k from 336k. The four-week moving average is now a 343k, which is a tad higher than last week's measure of 340k. Still, jobless claims are very close to 5-year lows.
Chris Dixon is a well-known VC who recently joined Andreesen Horowitz. A recent post on his Tumblr shows the extent to which the Bitcoin phenomenon is capturing the minds of the technorati. nonchalantrepreneur.com We'll avoid for now a big discussion of the actual question, of whether digital currency does represent a huge new era. It should be noted that the dollar is mostly digital too. But as an indication about enthusiasm, this kind of post is telling.
Flickr / SiskoThe euro is trading just a tad above $1.28 today. However, Morgan Stanley's Hans Redeker warns that it could eventually fall to parity with the U.S. dollar.¬† This was reported by Bloomberg's Candice Zachariahs. ‚ÄúThis policy concerning Cyprus, people will be getting more concerned in funding the peripheral, providing deposits there,‚Äù Redeker said. ‚ÄúThe long-term implication is that monetary transition in Europe is not working, there‚Äôs no credit, no growth, and fiscal policy is still fragmented. So, therefore, you need to be fairly pessimistic for the outlook.‚Äù ..."Within 2 1/2 years or so, you could be very close to parity, so the risk of an undershoot is quite significant,‚Äù he said. Morgan Stanley's currency team recently turned bullish on the dollar. Here's a long-term look at the euro priced in dollars via FinViz: FinViz
Foreclosure inventory was up 9 percent year-over-year (YoY) in the first quarter to 1.5 million properties, according to RealtyTrac's foreclosure inventory report.¬† The increase was led by a 59 percent YoY increase in pre-foreclosure inventory.¬† Delinquent loans have been working their way through the pipeline after the National Mortgage Settlement was finalized last year. "The settlement provided some closure regarding accepted foreclosure processing practices, and as a result lenders have been reviving more of these delinquent loans and pushing them into foreclosure over the past 12 months," said Daren Blomquist vice-president of RealtyTrac in a press release.¬† "Particularly in states where a lengthy court process has resulted in a bigger backlog of non-performing loans still in snooze mode." Here are some details from the report: Here's a chart that shows U.S. foreclosure inventory since October 2007: RealtyTrac
REUTERS / Yorgos KarahalisA man tries to look inside a branch of Laiki Bank a few hours before the reopening of the banks on the island in Nicosia March 28, 2013.Banks in Cyprus reopened this morning for the first time since March 16. Some feared that Cypriots would be crowded around these banks in there efforts to withdraw as much cash as possible. However, the reopenings have been orderly so far. UBS Senior Economist Paul Donovan warns that a bank run in Cyprus would be bad news. "Monetary unions die because of bank runs," he writes. "The beeping heard from Cyprus is the sound of a monetary union on a life support system." "It is however too simplistic to say that capital controls mean Cyprus has left the Euro - the ECB is still prepared to transmit money to Cyprus - it is still in." It's possible that today's calm is due to capital controls.¬† Specifically, depositors are limited to withdrawing 300 euros per day. These controls will be in place for seven days. Read Donovan's daily research round-up at UBS.com.
The lack of Cyprus panic images is proving to be a big relief. The banks reopened at 6, but it was a bit earlier that reporters first started tweeting about how there were no signs of imminent bank runs. S&amp;P futures then proceeded to go from down on the day to green. FinViz
Adjusted earnings per share came in a $0.22, which was much better than the $0.30 loss expected. Net revenue came in $2.68 billion, which was a bit shy of expectations. During the quarter, the company shipped 6 million smartphones including 1 million BlackBerry 10s. Analysts were projecting shipments of 6.95 million including 1.1 million BlackBerry 10s. "Including the anticipated 50% sequential increase in marketing spending, the Company believes it will approach breakeven financial results in the first quarter based on its lower cost base, more efficient supply chain, and improved hardware margins," said management.
Cyprus banks have reopened, and things are pretty orderly. This is probably the defining image of journalists trying to get a shot of the news. I know it's early, but so far this 'bank run' has something of the Monty Python about it... twitter.com/JoeWSJ/status/‚Ä¶
s_bukley / Shutterstock.com Good morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
REUTERS / Yorgos KarahalisA man tries to look inside a branch of Laiki Bank a few hours before the reopening of the banks on the island in Nicosia March 28, 2013.At 6:00 AM ET, banks in Cyprus reopened their doors for the first time since March 16. Wall Street Journal's Joe Parkinson reports that only eight people are being allowed in at a time at one Bank of Cyprus branch. However, the crowds have been orderly. Everyone is wondering whether there will be a huge run on the banks. So far? Not yet. This is likely due to a set of capital controls that have been imposed on the banks.† Specifically, Cypriot depositors cannot withdraw more than 300 euros per day from any one bank.† Also, checks cannot be cashed. These controls will be in place for seven days. Earlier this month, euro zone leaders drafted a deal to bail out Cyprus's banks.† It included an unprecedented levy on all Cypriot depositors, which was met with outrage from around the world. The revised deal spares insured depositors óthose with over 100,000 euros in the bank ó from taking a hit. However, some experts warn that at least some depositors are now spooked by the possibility that their deposits could be hit by a surprise levy at any moment. Folks on the ground just see a handful of real folks. Crowd presses against the door at Laiki bank #Cyprus If they have &gt; Ä100,000 in their account they will lose money. twitter.com/MCaruso_CabrerÖ But for the most part, it's just a ton of reporters. 50 minutes before banks reopen, the line in front of Bank of Cyprus branch is 13 people, besieged by reporters The one man bank run. Gregos Hadjisophoklis alone outside Bank of #Cyprus. He says he'll withdraw 200 euros for rent twitter.com/JoeWSJ/status/Ö So far, the only people queuing outside #Cyprus' banks?... Journalists. twitter.com/JoeWSJ/status/Ö Don't be fooled. There's only 13 people in line at this #Cyprus bank The rest are pack animals...I mean journalists. twitter.com/MCaruso_CabrerÖ
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderIt was hazardous being married to King Henry VIII, who ruled England from 1509 to 1547. Of Henry's six wives, two were divorced, one died, and two were beheaded. Only the sixth survived him. You hear a lot about Henry's wives if you visit his palace at Hampton Court, about a half an hour outside London. And when you enter the corridor below, in the royal "apartments," you hear the story about Henry's fifth queen, Kathryn Howard (often spelled "Catherine"). Henry married Kathryn when she was 19 and he was 49. Henry had just discarded his fourth wife, Anne of Cleves, reportedly because he found her unattractive. Henry developed a crush on the "vivacious" young Kathryn and soon married her. Kathryn's family, the Howards, were thrilled by the engagement, as they had been on the outs at the King's court and they assumed the marriage would restore their family to greatness. Henry was over the moon about Kathryn, referring to her as his "rose without a thorn" and "the very jewel of womanhood." Alas... The young Kathryn was as flirtatious as the average 19 year-old.Tudorhistory.orgKathryn Howard And a year after the marriage, the Archbishop of Canterbury informed the King that Kathryn had not only not been a virgin when he married her but might even now be carrying on behind his back. Henry was reportedly heartbroken and refused to believe this. But he ordered an investigation. And the news that came back was not good. So Henry ordered that Kathryn be imprisoned in the palace until she could be executed. One day, the story goes, Kathryn escaped from her guards and rushed down the corridor below in search of Henry. She thought he was praying in the royal chapel, which was at the end of the hall. And as she ran, she screamed and begged for his mercy. The guards caught her before she reached the chapel, and returned her to her cell. (And Henry may actually have been out hunting.) Shortly thereafter, Henry had her head chopped off. The story is that the ghost of Kathryn Howard still haunts the corridor at Hampton Court, where she reenacts her desperate attempt to see the king. Several visitors and staff over the years have reportedly seen her. Others have reported feeling "chills" in the corridor. (Perhaps because, in the winter and early spring, the place is freezing.) According to the Hampton Court guides, fully one-half of the visitor faintings that have occurred at the palace over the years have happened in that corridor. So maybe, even 500 years later, the ghost of flirtatious young queen still runs down this corridor to beg the king not to chop her head off.† Henry Blodget / Business Insider
The price of a Bitcoin, the digital money that's become the new obsession of gold and silver-types, continues its dizzying assent. Here's a short term chart. Back in February, one Bitcoin was trading at around $20. Today? $95, having had two huge moves over the last two days. Bitcoincharts.com (Via @nictrades)
The German labor market is still the envy of the world, but this particular monthly datapoint wasn't quite as hot as expected. Rather than a net creation of 2K jobs (as expected) it was actually a loss. German unemployment total up 13k to 2.935 mln. Jobless rate unmoved at 6.9%.
APWith the impending retirement of Sen. Tim Johnson (D-S.D.), a vacancy will open up at the top of the Senate Banking Committee ñ and Wall Street lobbyists are terrified that one raspy-voiced man from Ohio will step in to fill the post.† Ohio Democratic Sen. Sherrod Brown has kept a relatively low-profile since his election to the Senate in 2006. But behind-the-scenes, he has built up a reputation as biggest bank-buster in the Democratic Party, superseding even Massachusetts' Sen. Elizabeth Warren as the top bogeyman for financial industry lobbyists. Since the passage of the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill, Brown has become the leading voice in the Senate calling for breaking up big banks, introducing legislation in the last Congress that would have ensured that no bank held more than 10 percent of total insured deposits and capped non-deposit liabilities at 2 percent of GDP.† In practice, that measure would have forced the six biggest banks ó Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs, and Morgan Stanley ó to shrink significantly, effectively putting an end to financial institutions that are "Too Big To Fail."† "The largest banks are in fact too big to fail, they are too complex to manage, and they are certainly too complicated to regulate," Brown said in a recent interview with Business Insider. "They continue to jeopardize our financial system because of their size, their complexity, their interconnectedness. And they also have advantages in capital markets over other banks, so limiting their non-deposit liabilities would make the whole system more competitive." And while Brown's last attempt at ending Too Big To Fail gained little traction in Congress, ó just three Republican voted for the amendment out of 33 votes total ó the Ohio Democrat has not given up.† This year, he's teamed up with Louisiana Republican Sen. David Vitter to craft similar legislation, and says that, so far, 10 Republican lawmakers have gotten on board.† Brown sees this fresh, bipartisan support as indication that the tides are turning on Wall Street's biggest banks.† "I think the momentum has been building in the last year," Brown said. "You're seeing writers as varied as George Will and Gretchen Morgenson of the New York Times†to people like Jon Huntsman and [former FDIC Chair] Sheila Bair, who have come out of Republican politics, and Fed Governors like Richard Fisher [president of the Dallas Fed] and Dan Tarullo ñ a host of people who have been very serious thinkers about these things ó realize that this is a significant problem in the financial system."† "There has been more progress over the last year than any of us thought was possible," he added.† But Brown admits that he is up against some powerful foes ó and they have a vested interest in keeping the Banking Committee gavel out of the Ohioan's hands.† "These banks are not just powerful in the marketplace, they are also politically powerful," Brown said. "That's why it doesn't come easy ñ because of their political power with agencies, with Congress, all of that."† Unlike some of his Senate colleagues, Brown has avoided political grandstanding. He rarely appears on the Sunday talk shows, and most people outside of Ohio probably wouldn't recognize his face.† But therein, perhaps, lies his political power. Senate staffers on both sides of the aisles readily admit that Brown is affable, and generally well-liked around the Hill ó a fact which makes it difficult for Wall Street lobbyists to turn him into a political lightning rod as the Senate leadership works out who will succeed Johnson.† "I'm just building the coalition here fairly quietly," Brown said. "It's not an issue that people rally around so much ó breaking up the banks, limiting their liabilities, that's not something that excites people particularly. But I think it will. We're seeing intellectual and political support growing, and I think we'll continue to see that." "I'll keep speaking out about it," he promised. "I think the issues here are serious, they're of substance, and there's just so much more support here than there was three years ago."†
It is not a bail-out. There is no debt relief for the state of Cyprus. The Diktat will push the island‚Äôs debt ratio to 120pc in short order, with a high risk of an economic death spiral, a la Grecque. Capital controls have shattered the monetary unity of EMU. A Cypriot euro is no longer a core euro. We wait to hear the first stories of shops across Europe refusing to accept euro notes issued by Cyprus, with a G in the serial number. The curbs are draconian. There will be a forced rollover of debt. Cheques may not be cashed. Basic cross-border trade is severely curtailed. Credit card use abroad will be limited to ‚Ç¨5,000 (¬£4,200) a month. ‚ÄúWe wonder how such capital controls could eventually be lifted with no obvious cure of the underlying problem,‚Äù said Credit Suisse. The complicity of EU authorities in the original plan to violate insured bank savings ‚Äì halted only by the revolt of the Cypriot parliament ‚Äì leaves the suspicion that they will steal anybody‚Äôs money if leaders of the creditor states think it is in their immediate interest to do so. Monetary union has become a danger to property. One can only smile at the denunciations of Eurogroup chief Jeroen Dijsselbloem for letting slip that the Cypriot package is a template for future EMU rescues, with further haircuts for ‚Äúuninsured deposit holders‚Äù. That is not the script. Cyprus is supposed to be a special case. Yet the ‚ÄúDijssel Bomb‚Äù merely confirms that the creditor powers ‚Äì the people who run EMU at the moment ‚Äì will impose just such a policy on the rest of Club Med if push ever comes to shove. At the same time, the German bloc is lying to its own people about the real costs of holding the euro together. The accord pretends to shield the taxpayers of EMU creditor states from future losses. By seizing ‚Ç¨5.8bn from savings accounts, it has reduced the headline figure on the EU-IMF Troika rescue to ‚Ç¨10bn. This is legerdemain. They have simply switched the cost of the new credit line for Cyprus to the European Central Bank. The ECB will have to offset the slow-motion bank run in Cyprus with its Emergency Liquidity Assistance (ELA), and this is likely to be a big chunk of the remaining ‚Ç¨68bn in deposits after what has happened over the past two weeks. Much of this will show up on the balance sheet of the Bundesbank and its peers through the ECB‚Äôs Target2 payment nexus. The money will leak out of Cyprus unless the Troika tries to encircle the island with razor wire. ‚ÄúIn saving ‚Ç¨5.8bn in bail-out money, the other euro area countries will likely be on the hook for four to five times more in contingent liabilities. But, of course, the former represents real money that gives politicians a headache; the latter is monopoly central bank money,‚Äù said Marchel Alexandrovich, from Jefferies. Chancellor Angela Merkel will do anything before the elections in September to disguise the true cost of the EMU project. It has been clear since August 2012 that she is willing let the ECB carry out bail-outs by stealth, as the lesser of evils. Such action is invisible to the German public. It does not require a vote in the Bundestag. It circumvents democracy. Mrs Merkel can get away with this, provided Cyprus does not leave EMU and default on the Bundesbank‚Äôs Target2 claims, yet that may well happen. ‚ÄúI wouldn‚Äôt be surprised to see a 20pc fall in real GDP,‚Äù said Nobel economist Paul Krugman. ‚ÄúCyprus should leave the euro. Staying in means an incredibly severe depression.‚Äù ‚ÄúNobody knows what is going to happen. The economy could go into a free fall,‚Äù said Dimitris Drakopoulos, from Nomura. The country has just lost its core industry, a banking system with assets equal to eight times GDP, and has little to replace it with. Cyprus cannot hope to claw its way back to viability with a tourist boom because EMU membership has made it shockingly expensive. Turkey, Croatia or Egypt are all much cheaper. Manufacturing is just 7pc of GDP. The IMF says the labour cost index has risen even faster than in Greece, Spain or Italy since the late 1990s. What saved Iceland from mass unemployment after its banks blew up ‚Äì or saved Sweden and Finland in the early 1990s ‚Äì was a currency devaluation that brought industries back from the dead. Iceland‚Äôs krona has fallen low enough to make it worthwhile growing tomatoes for sale in greenhouses near the Arctic Circle. If Cyprus tries to claw back competitiveness with an ‚Äúinternal devaluation‚Äù, it will drive unemployment to Greek levels (27pc) and cause the economy to contract so fast that the debt ratio explodes. The IMF‚Äôs Christine Lagarde has given her blessing to the Troika deal, claiming that the package will restore Cyprus to full health, with public debt below 100pc of GDP by 2020. Yet the Fund has already been through this charade in Greece, and her own staff discredited the doctrine behind EMU crisis measures. It has shown that the ‚Äúfiscal multiplier‚Äù is three times higher than thought for the Club Med bloc. Austerity beyond the therapeutic dose is self-defeating. Some in Nicosia cling to the hope that Cyprus can carry on as a financial gateway for Russians and Kazakhs, as if nothing has happened. RBS says the Russians will pull what remains of their money out of Cyprus ‚Äúas soon as the capital controls are lifted‚Äù. The willingness of the Cypriot authorities last week to seize money from anybody in any bank in Cyprus ‚Äì even healthy banks ‚Äì was an act of state madness. We will find out over time whether this epic blunder has destroyed confidence in the country as a financial centre, or whether parts of the financial and legal services sector can rebound. Yet surely there is no going back to the old model, even though the final package restricts the losses to the two banks that are actually in trouble. Savers above ‚Ç¨100,000 at Laiki will lose 80pc of their money, if they get anything back. Those at the Bank of Cyprus will lose 40pc. Thousands of small firms trying to hang on face seizure of their operating funds. One Cypriot told me that the ‚Ç¨400,000 trading account of his father at Laiki had just been frozen, leaving him unable to pay an Egyptian firm for a consignment of shoes. The Cyprus debacle has taught us yet again that EMU has gone off the rails, is a danger to stability, and should be dismantled before it destroys Europe‚Äôs post-War order. Whether it marks a watershed moment in the crisis is another matter. Italy, Spain, France and Portugal have their own crises, moving to their own rhythm. The denouement will arrive when the democracies of southern Europe conclude that recovery is a false promise and that the only way to end mass unemployment is to break free of EMU‚Äôs contractionary regime. It will be decided by Italy, not Cyprus. 
viZZZual.comSince last October, basically, the Japanese stock market has been insanely hot. Thanks to the new government, and the expectation of a lot more easing (both monetary and fiscal) the Nikkei has been on fire, with 2% up days a common sight. But over the last couple of weeks, things have run into a bit of a brick wall. The yen has stopped weakening, and stocks have stopped gaining. On Thursday, stocks fell 1.2%. Particularly hard hit was the REIT index, which fell over 3%. This is all despite the usual jaw-boning and headlines out of the Bank of Japan about trying to hit aggressive inflation targets and so on. Clearly the effectiveness of that as a market-moving device has faded. Now time to put it all into action.
Flickr / LaRezistanceLatsi Harbour, CyprusThe big event of the day: Cypriot banks are set to reopen at 6 AM ET. To what extent it appears that there's a run/panic is something people will closely watch, although that might just make for good drama, rather than market-moving data. In the meantime, markets are lower everywhere. The big Japanese rally has really stalled out, with the Nikkei falling 1.26%. Shanghai got clubbed last night, dropping 2.8%. US futures are a¬† tad lower, and European equities are a little lower as well. There's some good economic data in the US today: GDP revisions, Chicago PMI and initial jobless claims are all coming up.
