Peter Thal LarsenNEW YORK (Reuters) - A senior executive at British brokerage firm ICAP PLC &lt;IAP.L&gt; knew that some of the firm's brokers worked with traders at UBS AG &lt;UBSN.VX&gt; to manipulate benchmark interest rates, according to the Wall Street Journal, which cited sources familiar with the matter. The executive, David Casterton, was included in some emails sent in 2007 documenting the discussions, in which UBS agreed to make quarterly payments to ICAP for help in rigging the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, the paper said on its website on Wednesday. A call and email to ICAP spokeswoman Brigitte Trafford were not immediately returned after business hours. The rate-fixing scandal has infected many of the world's biggest banks, put in motion new attempts to set global interest rates and indirectly led to the departure of several top executives at Barclays PLC &lt;BARC.L&gt; and UBS. Casterton, who the paper said is a longtime deputy to ICAP Chief Executive Michael Spencer and currently head of global broking at the London-based firm, would nevertheless be one of the most senior executives affected by the Libor scandal, the Journal said. An ICAP spokeswoman told the paper that no one at the company was "aware of any corrupt payment from any source at any time" and said it would be false and defamatory to suggest otherwise. (Reporting by Jed Horowitz; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)
Reuters/Pascal LauenerFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. George Soros: The Efficient Market Hypothesis Has Run Into Bankruptcy (Institute For New Economic Thinking) In an interview with the Institute for New Economic Thinking George Soros argues that the "prevailing paradigm of efficient market hypothesis‚Äîrational choice theory has actually run into bankruptcy, very similar to the bankruptcy of the global financial system after Lehman brothers." Soros who founded the institute said it needs to rethink economics. "[We need a] fundamental rethinking of the assumptions and axioms on which economic theory has been based. because economics has been trying to come up with universally valid laws similar to Newtonian physics and that i think is an impossibility you need a new approach with different methods and also different criteria of what's acceptable." Three Issues That Have Barry Ritholtz Worried (FA Mag) In an interview with FA Mag, Barry Ritholtz of Fusion IQ, said there are three financial trends that have him worried. 1. High frequency trading - "It is hollowing out the structure of the markets. Trading is a zero sum game, and if they are making a billion a year, it‚Äôs coming from somewhere." 2. "Too Big to Fail remains a problem. Banks should be boring, not speculative super-leveraged hedge funds." 3. Derivatives. The Chart That Best Illustrates How Gold Was A Bubble (Miller Tabak) Gold has been taking a hit as investor interest in the precious metal has declined since the precious metal hit its peak in 2011.¬† "The current reading of open interest has fallen to 390,647 contracts as sellers drive the price of gold to $1,235," writes Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak. "The last time open interest was this low was exactly four years ago when the price of gold stood at $927.40 per ounce. The current market value of outstanding gold positions of $48.24 billion is the least since September 2009 when gold stood at $1,008 per ounce attracting 458,691 contracts." Miller Tabak/Andrew Wilkinson Advisors Are Channeling More Of Their Clients' Money To Hedged Mutual Funds (The Wall Street Journal) Advisors are directing more of their clients' money into hedged mutual funds, according to the Wall Street Journal. These mutual funds¬†¬† used strategies like short selling that are used by hedge funds with the added benefit that they are more transparent and "can be traded daily." Mark Wilson of The Tabox Group told the WSJ, "we think [they] will hold up the best when the markets get skittish." Some however argue that this could hurt performance as hedge funds have been lagging the broader market HUGH HENDRY: The 'Invisible Regime' Keeping Volatility In Check Has Become 'Unhinged' (Zerohedge) "The invisible regime of low volatility and low correlations that had been so supportive of risk markets for at least the last year started to become unhinged," wrote Hugh Hendry, CIO of The Eclectica Fund.¬† "The catalyst came from the announcement that the US Federal Reserve may soon tighten its monetary policy following yet another better than forecast US employment figure. The jobless rate in America is down to a four-year low. This purported change of policy however created a chain reaction that spread across global financial markets," he wrote.

For more than two years, there's been speculation about who is lining up for the Gulfstream G650, the new private jet that has quickly become one of the most impressive aircraft in the skies today. In 2011, the New York Post reported Oprah Winfrey, Warren Buffet, and Ralph Lauren were all lining up to drop $65 million on the jet. But for those who are just looking to get on the list now, the next available plane won't be delivered until 2017 ó and there's no way to jump the line, Gulfstream says. "You are not allowed to sell your position," communications head Steve Cass said in an interview at the Paris Air Show. Customers sign a contract that includes a non-assignability clause, he explained. Of course, you are allowed to sell the G650 once you take delivery, but "if we get any indication that you sold, or were conspiring to sell the aircraft beforehand, we will take remedy to that," Cass said. "We do not want speculators in the marketplace." Obviously, a $65 million jet draws some very wealthy and high-profile customers. But "everyone's treated exactly the same," Cass noted. The G650 has become a hot topic among wealthy jetsetters, but Cass argued that the plane is actually "not a status symbol" for celebrities, noting that the vast majority of its 200 plus orders are from corporations, not wealthy individuals. "Matter of fact, most of the time people donít want it to be known that theyíre flying around in it," he said. "When you look at most of these airplanes, theyíre very nondescript. You donít see a lot of big company logos or anything on them, because they want to maintain their privacy. Itís also for security reasons as well.î Whoever is buying it, it's easy to see why the G650 is so coveted: It's the largest purpose built business jet on the planet. It flies higher and faster than commercial aircraft, and comes with top of the line technology that keeps the interior quiet and comfortable. Current owners include "Lord of the Rings" director Sir Peter Jackson, according to Stuff.co.nz, as well as Steve Wynn, Walmart, and Exxon Mobil, according to Aviation International News.
DoubleLine FundsDoubleLine Funds just blasted an email alerting everyone that bond god Jeff Gundlach would be hosting a surprise webcast Thursday. Gundlach just held a webcast on June 4, and his next webcast was scheduled for September 10. So, why is he doing this? Well, we think Gundlach is probably getting inundated by calls from clients about his bullish forecasts for Treasury bonds. During his June 6 webcast, he predicted that the 10-year yield would probably end the year at 1.7%. He was also quoted saying that it would not go above 2.5%. Even as rates surged, Gundlach doubled down last week and told CNBC that Treasuries were "the one place" to make money. For you beginners, bond prices fall when yields rise. Currently, the 10-year yield is at 2.54%, and it was as high as 2.62% earlier this week. While we're on the subject of out-of-the-money calls, Chipotle is up 9.6% since Gundlach recommended shorting the stock on April 11. For both Treasuries and Chipotle, Gundlach may be proven right in the long-term.¬† He is, afterall, a long-term thinker.¬† We expect him to reiterate this tomorrow. Anyway, here's a look at the performance of the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield. You can probably see why Gundlach's followers have raised their eyebrows. Bloomberg
According to The New York Times, it takes a lot of work (plus a whole lot of money) to be a successful New York socialite. Ignoring real estate, vacations, shopping sprees, and pets, Times reporter Ruth La Ferla set out to answer how much it costs to live the life of a socialite on the society circuit. In a handy rundown, she calculated the expenses of two archetypal socialites: One who has been on the scene for years, and another who is just starting to climb the social ladder. The Times estimates that Bea Grande ‚Äî the older, more experienced fictional socialite ‚Äî spends $455,450 each year prepping herself for charity events: $3,000 for a personal stylist, $120,000 for a publicist, $100,000 for wardrobe, and $200,000 for the tickets. The fictional Grande also spends $7,500 on at-home hair and make up styling, $18,000 on a personal trainer, and $5,700 yearly for Botox and glycolic peels. Serena Goodsense, the younger fictional socialite, spends an estimated $98,645 each year. Instead of a car service, she would take a taxi, and instead of a personal trainer, she has an annual gym membership at a posh gym. And though she spends virtually the same amount as Grande on Botox and chemical peels, she saves money with cheaper make up, hair cuts, and by buying designer gowns off the rack or borrowing them for a night. However, there is a price socialites pay for being a Serena Goodsense and cutting corners. "We tee-hee about those girls behind their backs," real socialite Natalie Leeds Leventhal confessed to La Ferla. Read all about the fabulous lives of society women here.
Men's Wearhouse founder George Zimmer was abruptly fired as chairman earlier this month.† Since then, Zimmer and his board have publicly sparred through a series of statements and letters.† The board accused Zimmer of being too controlling, while he accused them of not listening enough.† Following the company's statement blasting Zimmer yesterday, he decided to fight back in an open letter.† "To justify their actions, they now have tried to portray me as an obstinate former CEO, determined to regain absolute control by pushing a going private transaction for my own personal benefit and ego," Zimmer said. "Nothing could be further from the truth." From George Zimmer June 26, 2013 Since 1973 when I opened the first The Men's Wearhouse store in Houston, with the help of tens of thousands of current and former employees, we have built a multi-billion dollar company based on two guiding principles. The first is to serve customers by delivering†value†and an enjoyable shopping experience and the second is to embody the values of servant leadership by trusting and empowering our employees to create that experience. I believed that if we did these things right, customers would be satisfied, employees would feel appreciated and motivated and shareholder value would be created. And, in fact, all this has happened. Over the years, as†CEO, I consistently encouraged the company to take a longer term approach of investing most of our profits back in the company, delivering value to our customers and building a loyal and dedicated workforce totally committed to service, rather than pursuing shorter term strategies based on financial engineering. Inside the Boardroom, we often had spirited discussions about how best to achieve these objectives. Regardless of whether the Board eventually sided with my point of view or not, I believe this dialogue and discussion led to better decisions that contributed to the success of The Men's Wearhouse. Unfortunately, this dynamic seems to have changed. Just one month after the directors unanimously nominated me for reelection to the Board, last week they abruptly fired me from my management role and postponed the Annual Stockholder Meeting so they could nominate a new slate of directors that excluded me. To justify their actions, they now have tried to portray me as an obstinate former CEO, determined to regain absolute control by pushing a going private transaction for my own personal benefit and ego. Nothing could be further from the truth. The reality is that over the past two years, and particularly over recent months, I believe that the Board and management have been eroding the principles and values that have made The Men's Wearhouse so successful for all stakeholders. Earlier this year, concerned with the Board's response to the short term pressures of Wall Street, I encouraged the Board to at least study a broader range of strategic alternatives beyond simply selling the K&amp;G division, including the possibility of a going private transaction. Rather than thoughtfully evaluating the idea or even checking the market to see what value might be created through such strategic alternatives, the Board quickly and without the assistance of†financial advisors†simply rejected the idea, refused to even discuss the topic or permit me to collect and present to the Board any information about its possibilities and feasibility, and instead took steps to marginalize and then silence me. Such behavior by the Board does not strike me as consistent with sound principles of good corporate governance or the core values of The Men's Wearhouse, but instead suggests that the directors were more concerned with protecting their entrenched views and positions than considering the full range of possibilities that might benefit our shareholders and indeed all our stakeholders. To be clear, at this point I have not concluded that taking The Men's Wearhouse private is a better means of preserving the unique culture and values that have made the company so successful over the years. What I do know is that as a founder and large shareholder, I am greatly concerned about†the future†of the company if this culture and these values are lost, and believe that the Board should be open to at least consider the full range of possibilities that could optimize the future value of the company for all stakeholders. To the countless employees who have attempted to contact me over the past week, I appreciate your kind gestures and support. I am so very proud of the company we built together and nothing will change that. I encourage you to stay focused on serving your†customers†and maintaining your jobs. Please do not concern yourselves with my well-being at the risk of your own.†
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderWe'll keep this one short and sweet. Grub Street put together a list of the city's most aged cuts of steak (check out the full list here). If you're not familiar with why this is awesome, know that dry aging a cut of meat (a process that can go for weeks or months) makes it more tender and flavorful. To do it right, you need a lot of space with a very precise temperature and humidity, so you have to leave it to the experts. According to Grub Street, famed steakhouse Peter Luger won't disclose how long they dry their steaks, but the following will proudly say they age their steaks for over a month if not two or three. From Grub Street: Marea: 50 days, New York strip Carbone: 60 days, porterhouse Minetta Tavern: 60 days, c√¥te de boeuf Osteria Morini: 125 days, rib eye (occasional special) Eleven Madison Park: 140 days, rib eye To see the full list (yes, there's more) head to Grub Street&gt;
It is well know that Marc Rich, the late billionaire commodities fugitive and American exile, managed to trade with some of the most unsavory leaders in the world despite U.S. sanctions. He died this morning, but in the 1970s (his heyday) he circumvented a ban on trading with Iran and managed to supply oil to Apartheid South Africa. He also found a way around Ronald Reagan's directive to stop trading with Muammar al-Qaddafi's Libya. The question is how? The answer is complicated ‚Äî think shell companies on paper and fixers on the ground. Think bribes. Foreign Policy Magazine did an awesome profile of Glencore (as Rich's company, Marc Rich $ Co. AG, was renamed after he left) last year. It touches on how Rich did business in the bad old days before the company went public. From FP: An inveterate sanctions-buster, Rich used offshore front companies and corporate cutouts to try to stay below the radar. He also pioneered the practice of commodity swaps, like the uranium-for-oil deals he brokered in the 1980s between apartheid South Africa and Islamic Iran and Soviet Russia... This is the heart of the Marc Rich formula: Access is money, and contacts on the ground mean access. The new Glencore, like the old one, relies on a network of fixers, middlemen, and business partners who might make other companies squeamish, among them the Uzbek-born oligarch Michael Cherney, now living in Israel and wanted by Interpol on a Spanish warrant connected to organized crime charges and with whom Glencore traded oil (through an offshore vehicle affiliated with Cherney) in Romania in the mid-2000s... In Congo-Brazzaville, to take another example, Glencore bought oil from shell companies set up by the state oil company's head, Denis Gokana (conveniently trained at its London office), according to a lawsuit by Kensington International, a Cayman Islands-based corporation. When President Jimmy Carter put sanctions on Iran in 1979, for example, Rich was ready. A business associate immediate went to Iran to greet Ayatollah Khomeini, writer Daniel Amman said in his book detailing the deal, 'The King of Oil. Khomeini and his lesser ayatollahs decided to respect the agreements made by the deposed Shah and so Rich was able to continue his work in Iran. In an ABC interview with Amman he said, "We performed a service for them...We bought the oil, we handled the transport, and we sold it. They couldn't do it themselves, so we were able to do it." Naturally, someone must be on the other side of any trade. In this case Rich was selling Iranian oil to Apartheid South Africa (getting around an embargo) and Israel (getting around an ancient feud). More from the Amman interview: "They didn't care," Rich told me. "The professionals in the oil business in Iran didn't care. They just wanted to sell oil." And sell they did, in part, using the spot market, which Rich himself perfected in the Middle East during the early 1970s. Essentially, instead of having a long-term contract with a buyer or seller, Rich would execute one-off trades through a thick layer of shell companies. So not necessarily the kind of thing you can trade from your basement.
Wikimedia CommonsThunder DolphinThe U.S. stock market is now on a nice two-day winning streak. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Going long gold and shorting stocks. Josh Brown called it, aptly, the "End Of The World Trade" since that basically represents a belief that rocks are going to be more valuable, over time, than enterprises creating value. Of course that trade has been getting crushed. Gold has had a horrendous year and stocks remain near all-time highs. And today it is a complete wreck. Gold is down over 4%, while stocks are up over 1%. As such, the end of the world trade is getting totally annihilated today. Here's a look over the last year. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler
Google FinanceThe stock market has been rallying, and they're currently near the highs of the day. There's not much news to report. Earlier this morning, Q1 GDP growth slashed after personal consumption growth was revised sharply lower. This could be the impact of fiscal austerity via payroll tax hikes and the sequester. However, this all reflects a period that ended in March, which was three months ago. Headlines are crossing from an interview Bloomberg's Peter Cook conducted with Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker, who said that the Fed is not "anywhere near" cutting the size of its balance she. It's worth noting that Lacker is not a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee this year, which means he has very little say in what will or won't happen with the direction of monetary policy.
Clusterstock Select is an easy-to-read daily email newsletter that rounds up top headlines, analysis, and video covering Wall Street and the financial services industry. Signing up is quick and easy.¬† Use the form below to enter your information then click the "Sign Up" button.
Eager EyesThere are some pretty awful charts out there.¬† We've talked about certain mediums ‚Äî like pie charts and infographics ‚Äî that are fundamentally flawed, but it's always important to look at specific examples of charts gone wrong.¬† As a learning exercise, we pulled together these 27 charts that are particularly bad.¬† It's not that the chart creators are dumb or careless ‚Äì to the contrary, a lot of work seems to have been done on several of these by quite intelligent people ‚Äî it's just that people have access to more data visualization assets today than ever before. All periods of innovation are also periods of widespread failure, as people try to create something new and occasionally push out a few duds. So here are 27 charts that ‚Äî for one reason or another ‚Äì belong among the pantheon of worst charts ever made.¬† Special shout outs to both Andrew Gelman's excellent blog as well as the Eager Eyes blog, both of which are excellent sources of chart criticism and insight.¬†
The bubbles in the chart below represent the total market value of all positions in the gold futures market (open interest multiplied by price). The last time there were fewer open contracts on gold in the futures market was four years ago, when gold was trading under $1000 an ounce. What does this mean? Investor interest in gold has waned dramatically since prices peaked in 2011. The flip side of this, of course, is that seven years ago, there was nowhere near this much activity in the gold market. Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson writes today in a note to clients: The current reading of open interest has fallen to 390,647 contracts as sellers drive the price of gold to $1,235. The last time open interest was this low was exactly four years ago when the price of gold stood at $927.40 per ounce. The current market value of outstanding gold positions of $48.24 billion is the least since September 2009 when gold stood at $1,008 per ounce attracting 458,691 contracts. The reduction in investor positioning as reflected in declining open interest hardly suggests a rebound for interest in gold especially when the clear story remains ‚Äòheading for the exit‚Äô. Indeed the tone points to further reductions, which judging by the magnitude of recent declines could easily put gold back under $1,000 per ounce. The bubbles in the chart are clearly getting smaller. Given the sharp decline in gold prices in the second quarter of 2013, it seems unlikely that they will be expanding again any time soon. Miller Tabak/Andrew Wilkinson

Gil Cohen Magen/ReutersControversial billionaire commodities trader Marc Rich has passed away today at the age of 78 at a hospital near his home in Switzerland. Rich ‚Äî¬†who fled the U.S. in 1983 before being indicted for wire fraud and tax evasion¬†‚Äî¬†pioneered the spot oil market, amassing a fortune by evading international rules and embargoes. He founded the company that would later become Glencore Xstrata, but he became truly infamous for trading with with apartheid-era South Africa, Iran, Cuba, and the Pinochet regime in Chile.¬†The honey badger of 1970s commodities trading, Marc Rich just didn't care. In a highly controversial move, President Clinton pardoned Rich on his last day in office in 2001. To some, Rich was an all-star commodities trailblazer. To others, a greedy, exiled white-collar criminal.¬† Worth an estimated $2.5 billion, Rich was no doubt, well, rich. And he certainly had a crazy life.
From Hugh Hendry, CIO of The Eclectica Fund. Zero HedgeThis year we have pursued five macro themes: long the US dollar, short China, long Japanese equities, long low variance equities and long interest rate contracts at the short end of G10 fixed income markets. Towards the end of May, however, the Fund experienced a sharp rise in its volatility from an annualised rate of 4% to 7%.†The invisible regime of low volatility and low correlations that had been so supportive of risk markets for at least the last year started to become unhinged. The catalyst came from the announcement that the US Federal Reserve may soon tighten its monetary policy following yet another better than forecast US employment figure. The jobless rate in America is down to a four-year low. This purported change of policy however created a chain reaction that spread across global financial markets. As cross-asset correlations rose, the Fund became less diversified.†This necessitated that we reduce our risk exposures across all trades; G10 receiver trades and Japanese and low variance equities were closed completely as their severe price reaction challenged their intermediate up-trends. As a consequence, the Fund fell by 2.1%. The main negative contributors were the short-end interest rate swaps and afore-mentioned equities, offset by modest gains from FX positions as the dollar strengthened and volatility trended higher in EM currencies. In the Far East, by contrast to the bullish American outlook, the†evidence of an economic slowdown in China continued to mount†and commodity exporting countries that rely heavily on sales to the Middle Kingdom came under heavy selling pressure. China accounts for 27% of total Australian exports, mostly raw materials, and the country finds itself in China's slipstream. Unfortunately, in a break with the recent past, it was the currency markets, and not our 3yr interest rate contracts, that benefited the most from the move. The Australian dollar recorded its seventh worst monthly performance (-7.7%) of the past 20 years. But instead of enjoying some of this move, the spectre of tighter US monetary policy contaminated the outlook for rates globally and our 2y1y swap positions rose rather than fell costing the Fund 57bps. In Japan, rising bond yields were also the culprit. Volatility surged as Japanese 10-year rates went from 30bps to trade over 1% at one point in May, before closing at 0.85%. As†it costs the government about a quarter of its total tax revenues just to pay the interest on its debt at current levels, the unsettling disorder in the bond market was rapidly interpreted as a threat to public finances and GDP growth.†Japanese stocks saw heavy profit taking with the TOPIX recording a 17% slide in late May. The Fund recorded a loss of 31bps from Japanese equities. Heading into June,†we retained a slightly larger short China position, we boosted our long position in the US dollar and re-directed it to reflect an outright short of emerging market currencies. We also transformed our†Australian rates trade into a bullish curve steepener†(that is to say, we added a short ten year leg). A similar position was initiated in Korea. These countries remain unique in having a developed world FX profile and overnight rates which remain high by international standards, giving the authorities considerable leeway to cut overnight interest rates. Ten-year rates, however, are liable to be dragged higher by US Treasuries.†So if the respective central banks do react to the slowdown evident in China by cutting short term rates, this could give rise to further steepening. Zero Hedge
Diversification¬†‚Äî¬†that tried and true maxim of investing ‚Äî¬†is still the right move,¬†according to Blackrock via Josh Brown. But during the financial crisis, investors who thought they were "diversified" found out they didn't have exposure to enough asset classes. "The fact is that in times of stress, correlations of stocks and bonds rises greatly," BlackRock writes. "And a traditionally diversified portfolio contains a high degree of equity risk." In this chart, the turquoise line represents a portfolio that is 60% large cap stocks and 40% bonds.¬† It's reasonably diversified, but could be way more diversified. The purple line represents a portfolio that is 2% large cap stocks, 12% mid cap stocks, 12% small cap stocks, 12% foreign developed country stocks, 12% emerging market stocks, 13.3% investment grade bonds, 13.3% US Treasury securities, and 13.3% junk bonds. BlackRock
Wikimedia CommonsThe results of today's auction of $35 billion of 5-year U.S. Treasury notes are out. The high yield during the auction was 1.484%, matching the when-issued yield before the auction. In bond market parlance, this means the auction finished right "on the screws." The bid-to-cover ratio, which¬†measures the dollar amount of bids versus the dollar amount of bonds actually auctioned,¬†came in at 2.45, down from 2.79 at the May auction ‚Äì marking the weakest demand for 5-year notes since September 2009. Direct bidders, those who bypass Wall Street primary dealers and buy notes directly from the Treasury, only accounted for 4% of today's take, the lowest share taken by directs since November 2009. 53% of the notes at today's auction were awarded to indirect bidders, a group of investors that includes foreign central banks. That marks the highest share of a 5-year note auction going to indirect bidders since January 2010. Today's auction of 5-year notes is closely watched by traders because the 5-year is part of the "belly" of the yield curve that makes up the largest portion of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. Fears that the Fed will begin to taper bond purchases later this year have hit 5-year notes especially hard relative to Treasuries of other maturities. "5-year notes and 7-year notes look pretty attractive here," said Brean Capital Head of Rates Russ Certo prior to the announcement of the auction results. "They've been bludgeoned, they've been the face of convexity and mortgage liquidation, as well as redemptions, and that's the area of value if you were going to have a tactical transaction in the marketplace." The reaction in the bond market is fairly muted so far, but 5-year and 10-year Treasury futures are drifting higher following the announcement of the results of today's auction.
Reuters/Rick WilkingBank of America Merrill Lynch just cranked up its home price forecast to 11.8%in 2013, from a previous estimate of 8%.  This comes after yesterday's Case Shiller index climbed 12.1% in April and Q1 home prices were up an annualized 16.7%. Chris Flanagan at Bank of America explains that home prices are being revised up for three key reasons ‚Äî better inventory dynamics, share of distressed sales, and home price momentum. "All three have been favorable for home prices this year. The share of distressed properties continues to fall, reaching 19.5% in April which is the lowest level since August 2008. "Inventory dynamics are also very favorable. Inventory collapsed through last year with months‚Äô supply of existing properties reaching a low of 4.3 months in January. Sellers have started to respond to favorable housing conditions with an increase in inventory starting in February (on a seasonally adjusted basis). Months supply has edged up to a still-low 5.1 months as of April. We forecast a continued modest rise to 5.5 months by the end of the year. With rising home prices, sellers will continue to enter the market. Overall, this is a positive development as it will lead to greater turnover of the housing stock. "The increase in momentum may be the most powerful driver of home prices. As we learned the hard way from the past cycle, expectations about the housing market are an important input into future home prices. Home prices have now been rising consistently since February 2012 and have accelerated notably at the turn of the year. As the Fannie Mae housing survey shows, 55% of respondents now expect home prices to increase over the next 12 months, compared to only 35% this time last year. The University of Michigan survey shows a similar dynamic with 12% of respondents reporting it is a good time to buy because of rising home prices, back to levels last seen in mid-2005." Flanagan does however expect the pace of home price growth to slow in the second half of the year. Paul Diggle at Capital Economics shares a similar view.
REUTERS/Stephen Hird On Monday, we wrote up Pink Floyd's in-print reunion blasting Pandora's initiative¬†to alter the royalty rate it pays songwriters and accusing the company of sending out misleading information about the effort.¬† Now Pandora has responded, sending out the following statement saying they're the ones lying: We have enormous respect for the members of Pink Floyd, and their amazing artistic contributions. We also respect the genuineness of their opinion. Unfortunately, they have been given badly misleading information ‚Äì the result of a well-orchestrated campaign by the RIAA and their lobbying arm to mislead and agitate artists. A glaring example is the assertion that Pandora supports an ‚Äú85% artist pay cut."¬†That is simply not true.¬†[emphasis ours] We never, nor would we ever, support such a thing. In fact, Pandora has suggested solutions that would guarantee no reduction in artist payouts while also nurturing the growth of internet radio -- a medium that is crucial to thousands of independent musicians who don‚Äôt enjoy major label support or FM radio exposure.¬† This much is true: Pandora is by far the highest paying form of radio in the world and proudly pays both songwriters and performers. For perspective, to reach the exact same audience, Pandora currently pays over 4.5 times more in total royalties than broadcast radio for the same song.¬† In fact, at only 7% of U.S. radio listening, Pandora pays more in performance royalties than any other form of radio. It's not immediately clear where the band's 85% figure comes from ‚Äì they link to this 2012 post by Register Editor Andrew Orlowsky, and he doesn't cite anyone. (He has not yet responded to our email.)¬†The bill proposed by Pandora and contested by Floyd, the Internet Radio Fairness Act, doesn't mention specific rate levels. It's also true that as a percentage of its revenue, Pandora's royalty payments are higher than any other platform's (that's why they're trying to get the law changed).¬† But Pandora still doesn't address the underlying issue Camper Van Beethoven frontman David Lowery brought up yesterday: a songwriter ends up with paltry returns for their work even if a Pandora user played their song a thousand times. Here's the rate breakdown according to IP lawyer Vanessa Kaster: So if CVB hit "Pictures of Matchstick Men" does literally get played 1,000 times, Lowery would only get $1.90. Nor does Pandora address Floyd's other contention, that its flyer asking artists to support IRFA is misleading. We doubt this is the final cut¬†of this dispute. UPDATE: The musicFIRST coalition says the 85% figure is derived by calculating the reduction in the portion of revenues for royalties Pandora is said to be seeking ‚Äî 50% to 8%. A commenter also alerts us to the fact that "Pictures of Matchstick Men" was a poor example since Lowery was not the original songwriter, and the issue in question concerns songwriter, not performer, fees.
via TwitterChris ArnadeI was always attracted to numbers. In middle school my baseball card collection spilled into a second drawer, driven by my love of the statistics on the back.¬† I would spend hours sitting on the floor searching for trends and hidden meaning in the batting averages. The players‚Äô pictures and ‚Äúpersonal detail‚Äù mattered little. In high school I bought a telescope so I could track the moons of Jupiter. I kept a tiny notebook where I wrote details and figured out the patterns. Numbers were comforting and relaxing. When assigned the odd problems for math homework I would do the evens as well, sucked in by the rhythm of the task. In grad school I would jokingly tell people in bars that getting a PhD in Math required me adding immense numbers. I said that for my thesis I was adding together numbers so long that to write them down required a thousand yards of paper. When telling this I saw myself joyfully working my way down a scroll the size of ten city blocks adding and adding and adding. The image made me happy. After my PhD I went to Wall Street. Finance was becoming quantified and people who could find patterns and understand data were valuable. I was now being paid well for my love of numbers. I spent the first few years there building huge spreadsheets and trying to explain what I thought the numbers said about the possible future. Soon they suggested I gamble money based on my reading of numbers. I was decent at it. I could look at a country‚Äôs numbers, its GDP, its Current Account Deficit, its Primary Surplus, its Debt/GDP, its Nominal Rates, and so on, and tell you what I thought would happen. Russia will default. The US will grow. Indonesia will devalue its currency. I did all this and really didn‚Äôt deal much with the people. I mean I thought I did. I went on international business trips. I ate in restaurants. I went out for beers at night. I talked to taxi drivers and bellhops and flight attendants. I spoke with others like me. We went to conferences where we argued and nodded at smart things being said. Still I never got to know the people who were being affected the most. Wall Street really didn‚Äôt think it was the correct way to spend it resources. Business trips were about meeting politicians, economists, and investors. We sat at tables and sipped our drinks, discussing numbers. We consoled ourselves: People are not logical, not at the individual level. At the aggregate level they were, or so we thought. During one trip to Brazil, in the middle of one of its financial crises, I spent three days straight in an office tower watching computer screens. I would leave each night taking a taxi to the hotel. That Friday I left early. The markets were in panic and little good seemed to be in the future. As I walked to the mall I was surprised: Why is everyone just being normal? Where is the hysteria that I saw on the market screens? Instead I saw an average day, filled with small dramas: A mother upset with her kid who wanted ice cream. A young couple holding hands, both with shiny braces on their teeth. A cluster of old men on a bench looking judgmental. I left Brazil that Friday night and flew home in first class. I went back to my job in New York and back to the comfort of my numbers. After fifteen years trading on Wall Street I transferred to a job where all I did was look at numbers: Trading for the bank with their money. I didn‚Äôt even have to talk to anyone. Wall Street had shifted from using phones to using chat rooms. It was all just numbers and words on a screen. In 2007 a financial crisis hit that affected me in a direct way. My company, Citibank, escaped bankruptcy only because of a government bailout. It is also when I started photographing New York. I would go on long walks, to escape the crisis. For the first time in my life I let decisions be guided by unquantifiable things like empathy and curiosity rather than probability. I let events and people take me wherever they did. It led me to some of New York‚Äôs poorest neighborhoods. Three years later I was spending almost all of my free time in Hunts Point, the Bronx,photographing and writing the stories of addicts.¬† I was finally looking beyond the numbers and interacting with people on a visceral level. I was hearing gut-wrenching stories, going into crack houses, helping addicts shoot up, and watching as friends die. I was seeing just how messy life is, filled with ambiguity and unsolvable problems. I was also seeing how amazingly resilient people could be, how happiness can be found amidst pain. I would still spend my days looking at numbers but they did not hold the same thrill as before. They seemed shallow and lifeless. They had also been wrong. Deadly wrong. Wall Street‚Äôs faith in numbers had proven to be disastrous. That structured world had been co-opted and hijacked by greed and ego. The world had handed numbers people the keys and we had almost driven the car off the cliff. A year ago I left my job to focus on¬†photography and stories. Recently I came home from a day in the Bronx, exhausted by the cumulative effect of a thousand little dramas. I opened my computer and looked at my twitter stream. My old world reappeared. I read smart commentary on places like Brazil. I scrolled through tweet after tweet, all shouting the story of the day. It was all logical and rational and clever. Everyone was throwing different numbers around to show they were right. Few were telling the messy and complex stories of the struggles to navigate the illogical and absurd reality of life, about the consequences of the news on, you know, people. One smart columnist, Matt Yglesias, was arguing why the death of 1,129 people in a clothing factory in Bangladesh was understandable and ‚ÄúOK.‚Äù Poor countries need lax labor laws before they can be rich . . . It went something like that. The author had fallen so far down the wormhole of numbers and clever arguments that he had forgotten humans were involved. Like Wall Street and I had forgotten that it was humans we were loaning money to and that it was humans who we were foreclosing on and it was humans whose governments were defaulting. I wanted to tweet back. ‚ÄúGo to Bangladesh. Talk to one of the children of the dead. Hell, don‚Äôt just talk to one. Spend two weeks listening.‚Äù He hadn‚Äôt gone to Bangladesh. He had just¬†read a few headlines¬†from a competing columnist and decided to argue based on that. After much thought I tweeted to him, ‚Äúyou are an idiot.‚Äù Since I was a kid numbers have won. They took over baseball with the advent of moneyball. They have taken over finance and are starting to take over politics. That is not necessarily a bad thing. Rational arguments can trump emotions.¬† Yet it can and has gone too far. We have become so intent on maximizing some efficiency function that we need to be reminded that the tiny data points being argued about are people with stories and tragedies and moments of joy Yes it is trite, but it‚Äôs remarkable how much damage is done when we forget. Postscript In January of this year on of my subjects, Millie, passed away. Her unclaimed body was tagged #97 (the 97th¬†death in the Bronx during 2013) and shipped from Lincoln Hospital to the New York Medical Examiner‚Äôs office. After two months she was buried in a trench on¬†Hart Island¬†by the department of Correction. She and the close to 900,000 others buried on Hart Island have no tombstones or a place for relatives to remember or lay flowers.¬†¬†Millie‚Äôs death notice was the gossip on the streets. Her life story, growing up in Puerto Rico the daughter of addicts, of twenty years of prostitution, homelessness, and drug abuse will not register beyond a close circle of friends. I am thankful and fortunate that over the last two years I got to know her as¬†Yafna Garcia, not just the 97th¬†death in the Bronx of 2013.
REUTERS/Jason LeeBranches of Bank of China and the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) have stopped lending amid the country's current liquidity squeeze, according to Caixin Online.†  The two banks, are part of the country's Big Four. Bank of China was reportedly having a hard time meeting loan-to-deposit requirements before the liquidity squeeze and it plans to resume lending on July 15. Meanwhile, ICBC's headquarters set a cap on lending, but what was unusual was that "headquarters had cut down on the quotas to make room for its own operations," according to Caixin. Other sources however said this wasn't a major problem. Chinese interbank rates, or the rates at which banks lend to each other, began spiking before the Dragon Boat festival earlier this month. The People's Bank of China alleviated some of the pressure by injecting liquidity into some banks and saying that it would use various tools like short-term liquidity operations to help stabilize rates. But it's important to remember that the "PBOC promised more liquidity but not enough to support the equity markets or enough to drop rates below 4%," according to Robert Savage at FX Concepts.† And the Chinese central bank's initial decision to let rates peak is still being interpreted as its way of punishing certain banks that had runaway credit growth. From SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale's Wei Yao: The PBoC makes clear that it wants more responsible and less risky behavior from financial institutions, including the strengthening of liquidity and asset-liability management, and calls on large banks to help stabilize markets. Secondly, the PBoC calls on financial institutions to balance liquidity and profitability and other business objectives according to macroprudential requirements. Lastly, it calls on financial market participants to strengthen market discipline, particularly related to Shibor. Jim O'Neill said China was never at risk of a genuine liquidity crunch. But there definitely are concerns of a credit bubble so we will be following these developments closely.
Upper East Side dad, entrepreneur and author Richard Kirshenbaum has another installment of his column 'Isn't That Rich' in the NY Observer today ‚Äî this one goes out to all the Ladies who Lunch. The point of the column is to examine the culture of adults on the Upper East Side, and in this edition Kirshenbaum talks about the prospects for a divorced woman in the neighborhood. The headline is Dating Tips for Uptown Divorc√©es: Middle-Aged Millionaires Are Just Not That Into¬†You ‚Äî that should tell you a lot of what you need to know, really. From the NYO: Where most rich divorc√©es fail is in assuming they can replace their husbands with a newer model pretty much like the old one. Sorry to say, this tends not to be the case. Most of the time, the divorced well-to-do male is not looking for his equal, but rather for a sexretary from the Midwest, preferably without an opinion. As one recently divorced hedge funder told me: ‚ÄúBeing married to a smart, opinionated woman is work! Now I just want tits on a stick, a blonde wig and someone to tell me I‚Äôm great when I get home.‚Äù Women who take a tough line often wind up lonelier for it. At a political fund-raiser, my wife Dana and I were chatting with a well-regarded financier‚Äôs ex-wife, who clearly exhibited pre-realistic dating tendencies. She laid out her requests like the Marshall Plan: ‚ÄúMy age or younger. I won‚Äôt date a geezer. Rich‚Äîthe richer the better. Sexy. Okay, let‚Äôs just cut to the chase: my ex if he had abs and a personality.‚Äù According to Kirshenbaum, that woman is still alone. In the end, he says, the most successful women focus on either money (go for an older man), sex (go for a younger man), or companionship for themselves and their kids (might be a fixer-upper, but this generally works best).  The full column is a pretty fun read, to grab it head to the NYO&gt;
Thought the 20% drop from the May 22 peak in the Japanese stock market was bad? Wait until you see what's happened to the Japanese Mothers, an index of small-cap stocks that surged as the Japan rally took hold in late 2012 and early 2013. Naturally, the faster they rise, the harder they fall. The Mothers actually peaked on May 20, two days before the rest of the market, but since then, the small-cap index is down a staggering 47%. "Buyer beware: Investors are exposed to unproven business models amongst a plethora of small-cap†names and somewhere that can prove explosive when hot money pours in," says Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson. "And the flip-side to any fast-money driven explosion is a cataclysmic decline as neurotic investors†scramble for their money back." Wilkinson doesn't necessarily see the big decline in the Mothers index since May 20 as much of a warning, though. "The Mothers index on a year-over-year basis had advanced by 207% in May and now remains 76% higher than June 2012," says Wilkinson. "And so while you might be forgiven for thinking that this volatile index is a canary in the coalmine, perhaps its behavior is no different than a dash back to cash as investors recognize the need to bank gains before they are all gone." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, Miller Tabak/Andrew Wilkinson, BloombergPercentage performance of the Japanese Mothers index (rebased to May 20 peak) and the Nikkei 225 (rebased to May 22 peak).
The Daily Show"Hedge fund manager" John Tabacco, who runs Fortified Funds, was on "The Daily Show" with host Jason Jones the other day making Wall Street look really bad. The fund manager was featured in a "Money Boo Boo" segment, which poked fun at the dynamic between the U.S. and Canadian banking systems and how Canada hasn't had a crash in 150 years unlike the U.S. From his pinstripped suit in front of his trading screens to the offensive and sexist remarks that came out of his mouth, Tabacco really epitomized a greedy and sleezy Wall Streeter. Even though these segments are most likely scripted, it's surprising for a financial professional in an industry that has been pilloried more than any other industry in the world even to joke about it. Now let's recap what happened. Tabacco began his segment by ripping into Senator Elizabeth Warren, who is known for her tough stance on financial regulation. Tabacco: "We don't need these socialist forms of regulationóthe Elizabeth Warrens of the world coming down and sticking their little fingers and micro managing the capital markets." Jones: "So if those women came down with their little hands what would we wind up looking like?" Tabacco: "We'd start looking a hell of a lot more like Canada." Then he played the role of an obnoxious banker who was oblivious that a ton of Americans lost a lot of money during the crisis. Tabacco: "The American financial system is the last bastion of free market capitalism in the world. It's the greatest system the world has ever known." Jones: "What about the statistical evidence that shows otherwise?" Tabacco: "What statistical evidence?" Jones: "Well, since 1790, the U.S. has had 16 banking crises and Canada has had zero." Tabacco: "There have been bubbles and bursts in the U.S., but if you're educated and you're prepared you should be able to profit." Then, Jones asked the fund manager to tell a joke. Tabacco: "What's the difference between jelly and jam?" Jones: "I don't know." Tabacco: "You can't jelly a c--- in a girl's mouth." We couldn't locate any record of his hedge fund, Fortified Funds, on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website. He did make an appearance on Fox Business Network on behalf of Fortified Funds. According to his LinkedIn, he runs internet broadcast company Tabacco Media. In the past, Tabacco was known for being extremely vocal about naked short selling. He previously ran LocateStock.com, but the website looks like it's no longer available. His FINRA broker check record hasn't been updated since the mid-1990s. Back in 1997, he was fined $50,000 and barred from the National Association of Securities Dealers on allegations that he allowed executions of transactions in three separate customer accounts without their knowledge or authorizations, FINRA records show. But you might remember Tabacco and his brother Derekówho has been on "Mob Wives", "Millionaire Matchmaker" and a Dunkin' Donuts commercialófrom the Occupy Wall Street movement. They both organized the "Occupy A Desk" counter-movement and were dubbed "Wall Street's Heroes" by us when they marched in an Occupy demonstration. We also had a debate with him over his "ridiculous party van" called P2 that he and his brothers drive around the city. Folks on Twitter didn't find his jokes on "The Daily Show" to be funny: † † †
Screenshot.The tolerant Mr. Fischer.As some Americans celebrate the step toward fairness and equality in the Supreme Court's ruling that it's unconstitutional to deny federal benefits to gay spouses, other Americans are furious. Bryan J. Fischer, for example, who is the Director Of Issue Analysis at an organization that calls itself the American Family Association, thinks that the ruling makes it "inevitable" that everyone will soon be having sex with relatives, kids, and pets. The DOMA ruling has now made the normalization of polygamy, pedophilia, incest and bestiality inevitable. Matter of time. FOX News contributor Todd Starnes, for example, is merely accusing the Supreme Court of "overruling God" and suggesting that Christians ignore the decision and "answer to a higher court." What's curious about this position is that there's nothing preventing Christians (or anyone else) making their own decisions on this matter. That's what "freedom" and "separation of church and state" are all about.† You can read the rest of Mr. Fischer's analysis here &gt;
Flickr / Creative CommonsTraffic congestion across the U.S. climbed 9.2% last month compared to May 2012, signaling continued economic improvement as auto and retail sales are on the rise. The data is provided by INRIX, which tracks real-time traffic data. In an interview, CEO Bryan Mistele said the correlations between worse congestion and better economic indicators is easy to understand. When more people are buying cars, shopping, and going to work, there are more cars on the road. While a good sign, more traffic still has its downsides. Wasted fuel and time†cost Americans $121 billion in 2011. The rise in traffic is not equal across the country, INRIX said in a press release. The biggest jump, 15.7% over last year, was recorded in the metropolitan areas in the western U.S. The South is still lagging, with just a 2.4% increase in congestion. INRIX analyzes congestion levels in metropolitan areas during peak traffic hours. Here's the gridlock chart for the past year: INRIX
Even as the U.S. population steadily grows, some cities have seen drastic decreases in population. Many of these cities relied on a particular industry ‚Äî coal, steel, automotives ‚Äî that has since left the area and taken away thousands of jobs. Suburbanization has also played a major role, as families fled in favor of suburbs with less crime and better schools. Here's a look at 11 American cities that have experienced some of the most drastic population decreases in the country, and what they looked like in better days. Population at peak (1960):¬†627,525¬†Population in 2010:¬†343,829Decline from peak:¬†45.2%¬† LOC While Katrina helped relieved the city of 29% of its population between 2000 and 2010, the rise of Houston and the broader Texas Gulf Coast port and refinery complex had already put a dent into what was for much of the 19th century and early 20th century the most bustling port in the South. Population at peak (1960): 262,332Population in 2010: 141,527Decline from peak:¬†46.1%¬† Dayton Metro LibraryDayton, Ohio's population declined after major companies like Mead Paper and General Motors left. Manufacturing was also big in Dayton, and many of those jobs have since left the city. Population at peak (1930):¬†143,333Population in 2010:¬†76,089Decline from peak:¬†46.9%¬† LOC Scranton, Pa. was the center of Pennsylvania's coal industry in the first half of the 20th century. The population declined along with the coal industry in the second half of the century. Population at peak (1960):¬†102,394Population in 2010:¬†50,194Decline from peak: 51%¬† LOC Niagara was never the same after a 1956 landslide destroyed part of the city's largest hydroplant. The construction of the Robert Moses Parkway has also been blamed for the city's decline as it allowed travelers to completely bypass the city on the way to Canada. Population at peak (1950):¬†580,132Population in 2010:¬†270,240Decline from peak: 53.4%¬† LOC Buffalo, N.Y. used to be a big transportation hub with the Erie Canal and the Buffalo Central Terminal, a major railroad station. The rise of Amtrak in the 1970s took trains away from the Buffalo Central Terminal and St. Lawrence Seaway that extended to Lake Erie created competition for the Erie Canal. In addition to all that, many manufacturing jobs went overseas. Population at peak (1950):¬†676,806Population in 2010:¬†305,704Decline from peak: 54.8%¬† LOC The Steel City is another town that¬†has struggled with industrial decline¬†and fleeing manufacturing jobs. Population at peak (1960):¬†178,320Population in 2010:¬†80,294Decline from peak: 55%¬† LOC Gary, Ind. took ¬†a big hit when the steel industry collapsed. The city¬†has deteriorated so badly over the past few decades that the city is now considering¬†cutting off city services to about half its land¬†and moving residents to more viable areas. Population at peak (1950):¬†914,808Population in 2010:¬†396,815Decline from peak: 56.6%¬† LOC Many large companies that once provided thousands of jobs to people in Cleveland, such as John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil Company,¬†have since left the city. The country's industrial decline over the past few decades along with the rise of suburbanization drove Cleveland's drastic population decline. Population at peak (1930): 170,002¬†Population in 2010:¬†66,982Decline from peak: 60.6%¬† LOC Youngstown has been accused of failing to diversify to stave off nationwide industrial decline. Many regard the shuttering of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company on¬†September 19, 1977, aka "Black Monday," as the death knell of the city. Population at peak (1950):¬†1,849,568¬†Population in 2010:¬†713,777Decline from peak: 61.4%¬† LOC Detroit has lost more than a million people since its peak in the mid-20th century, and the population decline¬†isn't expected to end anytime soon. Known as Motor City, Detroit was the center of an auto industry boom after World War II. The boom has long since ended, however, and¬†many manufacturing jobs have disappeared. Detroit's population decline¬†can also be attributed¬†to middle-class families moving to the suburbs to avoid the high crime and plummeting property values in Detroit. Population at peak (1950):¬†856,796Population in 2010:¬†319,294Decline from peak: 62.7%¬† LOC St. Louis was once the continent's railway hub, but as rails became less important, so did the city. Its problems were further compounded by disastrous urban renewal policies¬†that sparked an intense wave of mid-century white flight. The city is now¬†not even in the top 50.¬†
"The ECB‚Äôs OMT is practically dead," says Joachim Fels, the top economist at Morgan Stanley. OMT, or "outright monetary transactions," was the game-changing monetary policy construct introduced last year by the ECB in order to reduce financial market stress in the eurozone. It worked pretty well, too: 10-year government borrowing costs (sovereign bond yields) in Italy and Spain fell from highs of 6.57% and 7.57%, respectively, on July 24, 2012 ‚Äì levels widely deemed as unsustainable ‚Äì to lows of 3.76% ¬†and 4.03% on May 2, 2013. "When we all look back at what OMT has produced, frankly when you look at the data, it‚Äôs really very hard not to state that OMT has been probably the most successful monetary policy measure undertaken in recent time,"¬†said ECB President Mario Draghi at his June press conference. "OMT has brought stability, not only to the markets in Europe but also to the markets worldwide." However, by then, things were already changing substantially. Sovereign debt of countries like Italy and Spain has sold off substantially since the beginning of May as a breathtaking surge in U.S. Treasury yields has sparked fears of a reduction in global liquidity. Naturally, as some of the biggest beneficiaries of global liquidity (the Federal Reserve launched an open-ended bond-buying program around the same time as the introduction of OMT, and in April, the Bank of Japan launched an unprecedented bond-buying program of its own), risky eurozone assets have taken a hit over the past two months. The chart below, via Citi's Steven Englander, provides a great illustration of just how "practically dead" OMT really is. "The light blue line is the local currency performance of euro zone banks vs. US banks.¬†For euro zone bank stocks,¬†recent deterioration has unwound all the¬†outperformance since early August 2012, unwinding almost all the improvement since the seminal Draghi risk-easing speech in July 2012," says Englander.¬†"EUR corporate CDS has similarly unwound a significant chunk of outperformance and (relative to the US) is now where it was during the Cyprus crisis and last September." CitiFX/Steven Englander, Bloomberg The rise in U.S. Treasury yields is the clear catalyst for this unwind in eurozone financial markets. "Liquidity-driven markets have just been presented with the antithesis of ECB president Mario Draghi's July 2012 pledge to 'do whatever it takes' to save the eurozone," says Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy.¬†"Perceptions of the Fed's policy actions, as opposed to those of the ECB, are now shaping sentiment towards eurozone peripheral debt." That, of course, presents a bit of a problem for eurozone policymakers, who for years now have been engaged in attempts to remedy longstanding structural defects in the common currency and, by extension, the euro crisis itself. And since the ECB's introduction of OMT in September, against a backdrop of rising stock markets and falling bond yields, eurozone policymakers have had a pretty nice work environment in which to move forward with complicated integration plans. Now, "the calm has given way to mild panic," says Spiro. "It's one thing for eurozone leaders to disagree about how to shore up the bloc when market conditions remain benign, but quite another when investors are running scared." In a note to clients on Sunday, Morgan Stanley's Fels put it thus: "Things haven‚Äôt exactly gone well recently: the global market rout has pushed up bond yields in the periphery, political risk is back in Greece, where the government coalition was dealt a blow by the departure of one its partners, and European finance ministers were unable to agree on a new bank bail-in regime and broke off their talks in the early hours of yesterday, leaving an important element of the envisaged bank resolution regime unresolved." That's why investors should be watching eurozone bank stocks closely. Citi's Englander warns: "Post-Cyprus and in the absence of an established hierarchy of loss-taking for damaged banks that reassures depositors, any concern on euro zone financial institutions can quickly become a major EUR crisis." And Spiro agrees: "The repeated failures on the part of eurozone leaders to honour their pledge of June 2012 to sever the pernicious links between vulnerable banks and sovereigns may be coming back to haunt them." So, is OMT dead? In his Sunday note, Fels explains why he puts it that way: What if, say, deflation pressures still intensify and/or the debt crisis flares up again? I can hear you whispering: ‚Äòthe OMT‚Äô. Well, here‚Äôs the problem. The ECB says it will only activate the OMT if a government in trouble subjects itself to strict conditionality under an ESM program or credit line. However, any such arrangement would have to be approved by German parliament, and given the Bundesbank‚Äôs stiff opposition to OMT and the Constitutional Court‚Äôs scrutiny of OMT, I don‚Äôt think German parliamentarians would approve an ESM program that they know will trigger OMT. This is why I believe the OMT is practically dead and why the next big theme for the ECB will be broad-based QE. True, that‚Äôs unpopular in Germany too, but at least it doesn‚Äôt require a vote in the Bundestag. If Fels is right, and quantitative easing is in the offing for the ECB, perhaps Mario Draghi will have the chance to save the day in the global marketplace once again.
We‚Äôve done a lot of articles on value and drawdowns on the blog before (search the archives). ¬†I was curious what happens when you bought the US equity sectors back when they were really hammered (French Fama to 1920s). ¬† Average 3 year nominal returns when buying a¬†sector¬†down since 1920s: 60% = 57% 70% = 87% 80% = 172% 90% = 240% Average 3 year nominal returns when buying an¬†industry¬†down¬†since 1920s: 60% = 71% 70% = 96% 80% = 136% 90% = 115% Average 3 year nominal returns when buying a¬†country¬†down¬†since 1970s: 60% = 107% 70% = 116% 80% = 118% 90% = 156%  It‚Äôs hard to buy something down 80%, especially if you owned it when it was down 30, 50, then 80%. ¬†But usually that is a great time to be wading in‚Ä¶Some recent examples of assets that have gotten clobbered include tech in 2002, homebuilders in 2009, and Greece and (Junior) Gold Miners now. ¬†
REUTERS/Ho NewIndia's GDP growth rate has fallen to a 10-year low. The rupee just breached an all-time low of 60 against the dollar.† And with elections due next year, policymakers aren't expected to do too much to stir things up.† But Jim O'Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,† thinks that "India, in particular, could teach pessimists a lesson." In a Bloomberg View column, O'Neill draws on a presentation he made back in 2008 to highlight a 10-step program for India's economy. We paraphrase here: O'Neill thinks the emerging market gloom is overblown. Read the entire piece at Bloomberg View &gt;
Just a few†hours before Kevin Rudd became Australia's new Labor party leader this morning, he said the †Chinese commodity boom had ended. The remarks came during his announcement that he would stand for†Australia's parliamentary spill ó basically, that he was challenging now-outgoing PM Julia Gillard's leadership.† Here's the full text from the relevant snippet: I believe that what the nation needs now is strong, proven national economic leadership to deal with the formidable new challenge Australia now faces, with the end of the decade-long China resources boom and its impact on Australian jobs and living standards in the future. Given that our economic relationship with China alone now accounts for nearly 10% of the total size of our economy, this is a massive new challenge.† Here's the clip (start around 3:32): 
Someone swiped $1.2 million in 100 bills from a Swiss Air flight, according to multiple reports. The cash was part of a routine financial transaction between an unnamed American bank and its Swiss satellite office.¬† Here's how the New York Times' Marc Santora describes how the bills were arranged: The cash that was stolen ‚Äî 12 packets of $100 bills, each totaling $100,000 ‚Äî had been placed in a secure container that was then placed inside a larger container, the official said. The plane landed at JFK and the container was sent to the New York Fed. But when handlers opened the container, they discovered it was gone. Authorities are still not sure where or when the theft occurred, Santora says. Don't miss this analysis of the heist, and why banks still send actual cash to each other.
9:07 am EST - June 26, 2013 By Dan   From a purely technical standpoint (I can add a little value here), I suspect Gold pauses soon around 1200 an oz, BUT very likely round-trips the move from late 2009 and could see 1000 an oz. ¬†Again, I could not give you a single fundamental reason why it would got to 1000 or back to 1400, But I will tell you that 1400 should be fairly significant technical resistance for some time. ¬†The chart below shows the danger-zone highlighted in red and the resistance level at 1400. ¬†I suspect the next year sees Gold bang around in a very wide range btwn 1000 and 1400. ¬†A trader&#8217;s delight! &nbsp; CONVERSELY though, one name that I get asked a lot about that I do have lots of and very strong opinions on is AAPL. ¬†I do understand the fundamentals very well and was bullish for a long time before being early on the short side. ¬†I am not going to go into the gory details but, many smarter than I have compared the mania in AAPL over the last 5 years in a similar light to the true believers in Gold. ¬†There are obviously few fundamental comparisons to be made, but from a sentiment/psychology and technical standpoint the similarities are glaring. ¬†The 5 year chart below of Gold (white line) overlaid to AAPL (orange line) shows the steady, and orderly multi-year run up that highlights the massive accumulation which resulted in a parabolic blow-off top. ¬†Obviously AAPL coming a year after Gold, but when they broke they broke hard, and continue to make lower lows. &nbsp; One of the very first (valuable) lessons I learned in this business is that stocks/risk assets are very likely to overshoot on the downside, just as they do on the upside, but trying to play for a bottom takes an entirely different set of skills than knowing when to take profits on winners. ¬†In the first instance, an investor risks lost gains, while in the latter the investor risks fresh capital. ¬†The second half of my trading career has had probably 10% of the &#8220;catching the falling knife trades&#8221; than the first half, but I would add that nowadays, I define my risk and risk what I am willing to lose in the options market (a good example of this was the LULU trade that we closed for a loss yesterday, here). SO when I look at the chart comparing the 2 assets, if I I did not know the names of asset classes, on purely a technical basis I would be inclined to play Gold for a bounce at 1200 and would think that AAPL could continue to make lower lows and round trip the move from 2010. ¬† BUT knowing what I know about both I would be inclined to own AAPL with its 3% div yield, amazing balance sheet and $50 billion buy back and short Gold as I can&#8217;t think of a single good fundamental reason to own it. ¬†Read our posts on AAPL yesterday (my way to play, here) and Enis&#8217; Would You Rather (here). &nbsp; 
Business Insider / Henry BlodgetI live in New York. That means that for the past several years I have had to listen to everyone gush about the High Line. What's the "High Line?" The "High Line" is an old railroad track on the lower West Side that was recently converted into a park. It's a bit strange to hear people gush about a park--especially a long, thin park.
Sober LookThe last time we discussed the Credit Suisse Global Risk Appetite Index, it was headed for "euphoria" (see this post from May 21). Around May 22 something changed, and it was all downhill from there. It was Bernanke's first hawkish statement. May 22; Bernanke: - Weíre trying to make an assessment of whether or not we have seen real and sustainable progress in the labor market outlook. If we see continued improvement and we have confidence that that is going to be sustained, then we could in --†in the next few meetings -- we could take a step down in our pace of purchases. Intentionally or not, the Chairman burst the market bubble just before it hit "euphoria". It was clear that the Fed was becoming concerned about froth forming in fixed income markets (Bernanke spoke about it -†see this post). It was time to end it.  The unfortunate outcome of this action however is that it remains unclear whether the economy would have been better off if QE3 was never launched at all. The next 12 months will be filled with uncertainties about the exit timing, rising rates, and shaky credit markets. Anecdotal evidence suggests that some banks are becoming jittery about growing their balance sheets in this environment. As a result, loan growth is already slowing. That can't be good for business growth and hiring. When the dust settles, the economy may end up being in worse shape than it would have been if the Fed left it alone in August of 2012.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - One of last year's top-performing hedge fund managers, Deepak Narula, is suffering a reversal of fortune as the mortgage bonds that steered him to the top of the industry in 2012 are now delivering losses. His Metacapital Management's roughly $1.5 billion flagship fund was down 5.66 percent for the year through June 14, according to an investor with knowledge of the numbers. The loss is particularly given the fund's 41 percent gain last year. Narula's fund is just one of many credit-oriented hedge funds that have seen gains posted earlier this year turn into losses in the wake of a ferocious sell-off in bonds sparked by fears the Federal Reserve could pull back from its easy money policies later this year. Other large hedge funds with significant credit exposure that are posting negative numbers since Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke signaled a potential end to the monthly purchases of $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage securities include Brevan Howard, Bridgewater Associates and BlueCrest Capital Management. Metacapital, for instance, tumbled into the red after the fund lost 7.26 percent in May alone, according to the investor familiar with the numbers. Two other sources familiar with Metacapital said the fund has lost more ground in recent weeks as the value of mortgage-backed securities has continued to fall. Those sources did not have more recent performance figures. Narula did not return a request for comment. Funds like Metacapital benefited mightily last year from the Fed's decision in September to begin buying Treasuries and agency mortgage-backed securities in order to keep interest rates low. The bond buying drove investors into riskier, higher-yielding assets, as well giving a jolt to the prices of more traditional bonds. Bonds backed by subprime mortgages performed especially well along with mortgage securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Last year, Metacapital was an investor in both kinds of mortgage securities. But as concerns rose in May that the Fed would begin to taper its bond purchases, the yields on Treasuries and agency mortgage securities have soared as the prices of bonds have fallen. The sudden drop in bond prices has caught some managers flat-footed. Funds that make relative value mortgage trades using leverage will likely be some of the hardest hit investors this month, said several people in the hedge fund community, including allocators and traders. Smaller hedge funds are not the only ones that have been caught in the market crossfire. BlueCrest Capital's $13.6 billion Bluetrend fund, which invests in interest rates, currencies and stocks, lost 7 percent in May, said two people familiar with the fund's performance. For the year through June 14, the fund was down 3.7 percent, according to a person familiar with the numbers. A representative for the fund had no comment. Two of the world's biggest hedge funds, Bridgewater and Brevan Howard, have each rung up significant losses in the past few weeks. The $70 billion Bridgewater All Weather fund lost about 6 percent through this month, pushing yearly losses to about 8 percent, Reuters reported on Monday. Another Bridgewater portfolio, the Pure Alpha II fund, was down 1.12 percent for the year as of June 18, said a person familiar with the numbers. A $2.7 billion Brevan Howard fund that focuses on emerging markets had fallen 11.6 percent to June 14, Reuters reported last week.
Everyone's still digesting the stunning downward revision to Q1 GDP. Growth was revised down to 1.8% from an earlier reading of 2.4%. This was largely due to personal consumption growth, which was slashed to 2.6% from a previous reading of 3.4%. Perhaps this is the bite from fiscal austerity that everyone was looking for.¬† Remember, the fiscal cliff negotiations brought us payroll tax hikes, and later it gave us the sequester. Here's TD Securities Millan Mulraine: The lower consumption estimate provides some indication that the impact from fiscal austerity may have been more than previously thought, and that the economy started the year on weaker footing than previous estimated. And with the pace of fiscal austerity accelerating in Q2, some of this weakness should persist in Q2, when we expect the economic recovery to slow even further to around 1.5% q/q. Nevertheless, we remain constructive about the growth outlook for the second half of the year. In particular, with the pace of fiscal drag beginning to moderate and the strengthening private sector expected to reassert themselves, we expect the pace of economic growth to accelerate to an above-trend pace.
Almost every state in the Union is experiencing the same rate of jobs recovery, according to the New York Fed. Except one: North Dakota. You may have heard they have an oil boom going on. That has resulted in the following chart plotting percent of jobs lost during the recession against percent gained back during the recovery: NYFed Compare this with 1990, which saw a wider range of winners and losers: NYFed And here's the map version: NYFed Fed researchers Jason Bram and James Orr write there are likely two main reasons for the rests of the union clustering together:
We're a bit taken aback by the newly released revisions to Q1 GDP. GDP growth was slashed to 1.8% from a previous reading of 2.4%. Personal consumption growth was cut to 2.6% from 3.4%. For now, markets are taking it in stride and barely budging. Dow futures are up 60 points. S&amp;P 500 futures are up 9 points. The U.S. 10-year Treasury yield is sitting at 2.52%. It's worth reiterating that this data reflects a period that end in March, which was nearly three months ago. Here's a look at Dow futures since yesterday's close via FinViz. ¬† FinViz
Flickr / Galaxies and HurricanesUPDATE: The final reading for first quarter U.S. GDP growth is out. GDP growth came in at 1.8% annualized in Q1, down significantly from the 2.4% estimate published last month. Personal consumption growth was revised down to 2.6% from 3.4%. A key note from the release on differences from the second estimate: "With¬†the third estimate for the first quarter, the increase in personal consumption expenditures (PCE) was less¬†than previously estimated, and exports and imports are now estimated to have declined (for more¬†information, see "Revisions" on page 3)." Below is the full text from the release: Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and services produced by labor and property¬†located in the United States -- increased at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in the first quarter of 2013 (that¬†is, from the fourth quarter to the first quarter), according to the "third" estimate released by the Bureau¬†of Economic Analysis. In the fourth quarter, real GDP increased 0.4 percent. The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete source data than were available for¬†the "second" estimate issued last month. In the second estimate, real GDP increased 2.4 percent. With¬†the third estimate for the first quarter, the increase in personal consumption expenditures (PCE) was less¬†than previously estimated, and exports and imports are now estimated to have declined (for more¬†information, see "Revisions" on page 3). The increase in real GDP in the first quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from PCE,¬†private inventory investment, and residential fixed investment that were partly offset by negative¬†contributions from federal government spending, state and local government spending, and exports. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, decreased... The acceleration in real GDP in the first quarter primarily reflected an upturn in private¬†inventory investment, an acceleration in PCE, and smaller decreases in federal government spending and¬†in exports that were partly offset by a deceleration in nonresidential fixed investment and a smaller¬†decrease in imports. Motor vehicle output added 0.33 percentage point to the first-quarter change in real GDP after¬†adding 0.18 percentage point to the fourth-quarter change. Final sales of computers added 0.09¬†percentage point to the first-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.10 percentage point to the fourth-quarter change. The price index for gross domestic purchases, which measures prices paid by U.S. residents,¬†increased 1.2 percent in the first quarter, unrevised from the second estimate; this index increased 1.6¬†percent in the fourth quarter. Excluding food and energy prices, the price index for gross domestic¬†purchases increased 1.5 percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 1.2 percent in the¬†fourth. Real personal consumption expenditures increased 2.6 percent in the first quarter, compared with¬†an increase of 1.8 percent in the fourth. Durable goods increased 7.6 percent, compared with an increase¬†of 13.6 percent. Nondurable goods increased 2.8 percent, compared with an increase of 0.1 percent. Services increased 1.7 percent, compared with an increase of 0.6 percent. Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 0.4 percent in the first quarter, compared with an¬†increase of 13.2 percent in the fourth. Nonresidential structures decreased 8.3 percent, in contrast to an¬†increase of 16.7 percent. Equipment and software increased 4.1 percent, compared with an increase of¬†11.8 percent. Real residential fixed investment increased 14.0 percent, compared with an increase of¬†17.6 percent. Real exports of goods and services decreased 1.1 percent in the first quarter, compared with a¬†decrease of 2.8 percent in the fourth. Real imports of goods and services decreased 0.4 percent,¬†compared with a decrease of 4.2 percent. Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 8.7 percent¬†in the first quarter, compared with a decrease of 14.8 percent in the fourth. National defense decreased¬†12.0 percent, compared with a decrease of 22.1 percent. Nondefense decreased 2.1 percent, in contrast¬†to an increase of 1.7 percent. Real state and local government consumption expenditures and gross¬†investment decreased 2.1 percent, compared with a decrease of 1.5 percent. The change in real private inventories added 0.57 percentage point to the first-quarter change in¬†real GDP, after subtracting 1.52 percentage points from the fourth-quarter change. Private businesses¬†increased inventories $36.7 billion in the first quarter, following increases of $13.3 billion in the fourth¬†quarter and $60.3 billion in the third. Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in private inventories -- increased 1.2¬†percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 1.9 percent in the fourth. Gross domestic purchases Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S. residents of goods and services wherever¬†produced -- increased 1.8 percent in the first quarter; it was unchanged in the fourth. Gross national product Real gross national product -- the goods and services produced by the labor and property¬†supplied by U.S. residents -- increased 1.2 percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 0.9¬†percent in the fourth. GNP includes, and GDP excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the¬†world, which decreased $17.7 billion in the first quarter after increasing $19.2 billion in the fourth; in¬†the first quarter, receipts decreased $16.3 billion, and payments increased $1.4 billion. Current-dollar GDP Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation's output of goods and services -- increased¬†3.1 percent, or $120.0 billion, in the first quarter to a level of $15,984.1 billion. In the fourth quarter,¬†current-dollar GDP increased 1.3 percent, or $53.1 billion. Gross domestic income Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output of the economy as the costs¬†incurred and the incomes earned in the production of GDP, increased 2.5 percent in the first quarter,¬†compared with an increase of 5.5 percent in the fourth. For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and¬†GDI may differ for a variety of reasons, including the incorporation of largely independent source data.¬†However, over longer time spans, the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns of¬†change. Revisions The downward revision to the percent change in real GDP primarily reflected downward¬†revisions to personal consumption expenditures, to exports, and to nonresidential fixed investment that¬†were partly offset by a downward revision to imports. Advance Estimate Second Estimate Third Estimate (Percent change from preceding quarter) Real GDP...................................... 2.5 2.4 1.8 Current-dollar GDP............................ 3.7 3.6 3.1 Gross domestic purchases price index.......... 1.1 1.2 1.2 Corporate Profits Profits from current production (corporate profits with inventory valuation and capital¬†consumption adjustments) decreased $28.0 billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an increase of $45.4¬†billion in the fourth quarter. Current-production cash flow (net cash flow with inventory valuation¬†adjustment) -- the internal funds available to corporations for investment -- increased $125.6 billion in¬†the first quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $89.8 billion in the fourth. Taxes on corporate income decreased $10.5 billion in the first quarter, compared with a decrease¬†of $4.4 billion in the fourth. Profits after tax with inventory valuation and capital consumption¬†adjustments decreased $17.5 billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an increase of $49.8 billion in the¬†fourth. Dividends decreased $103.5 billion, in contrast to an increase of $124.3 billion. The large¬†fourth-quarter increase reflected accelerated and special dividends paid by corporations at the end of¬†2012 in anticipation of changes to individual income tax rates. Current-production undistributed profits¬†increased $85.8 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $74.3 billion. Domestic profits of financial corporations decreased $3.4 billion in the first quarter, compared¬†with a decrease of $3.5 billion in the fourth. Domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations decreased¬†$5.0 billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an increase of $24.8 billion in the fourth. In the first¬†quarter, real gross value added of nonfinancial corporations increased, and profits per unit of real value¬†added decreased. The decrease in unit profits reflected an increase in the unit nonlabor costs incurred by¬†corporations that was partly offset by a decrease in unit labor costs; unit prices were unchanged. The rest-of-the-world component of profits decreased $19.6 billion in the first quarter, in contrast¬†to an increase of $24.1 billion in the fourth. This measure is calculated as (1) receipts by U.S. residents¬†of earnings from their foreign affiliates plus dividends received by U.S. residents from unaffiliated¬†foreign corporations minus (2) payments by U.S. affiliates of earnings to their foreign parents plus¬†dividends paid by U.S. corporations to unaffiliated foreign residents. The first-quarter decrease was¬†accounted for by a larger decrease in receipts than in payments. Profits before tax with inventory valuation adjustment is the best available measure of industry¬†profits because estimates of the capital consumption adjustment by industry do not exist. This measure¬†reflects depreciation-accounting practices used for federal income tax returns. According to this¬†measure, domestic profits of both financial and nonfinancial corporations decreased. The decrease in¬†nonfinancial corporations primarily reflected decreases in "other" nonfinancial and in manufacturing that¬†were partly offset by increases in information and in wholesale trade. Within manufacturing, the largest¬†decreases were in petroleum and coal products and in machinery. Profits before tax decreased $34.7 billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an increase of $27.3¬†billion in the fourth. The before-tax measure of profits does not reflect, as does profits from current¬†production, the capital consumption and inventory valuation adjustments. These adjustments convert¬†depreciation of fixed assets and inventory withdrawals reported on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to¬†the current-cost measures used in the national income and product accounts. The capital consumption¬†adjustment increased $12.5 billion in the first quarter (from -$199.5 billion to -$187.0 billion), compared¬†with an increase of $0.5 billion in the fourth. The inventory valuation adjustment decreased $5.8 billion¬†(from -$9.2 billion to -$15.0 billion), in contrast to an increase of $17.6 billion. The first-quarter changes in taxes on corporate income and in the capital consumption¬†adjustment mainly reflect the expiration of bonus depreciation claimed under the American Taxpayer¬†Relief Act of 2012. For detailed data, see the table "Net Effects of the Tax Acts of 2002, 2003, 2008,¬†2009, 2010, and 2012 on Selected Measures of Corporate Profits" at¬†www.bea.gov/national/xls/technote_tax_acts.xls. Profits from current production are not affected¬†because they do not depend on the depreciation-accounting practices used for federal income tax returns;¬†rather, they are based on depreciation of fixed assets valued at current cost using consistent depreciation¬†profiles based on used-asset prices. For more details on the effect of tax act provisions on the capital¬†consumption adjustment, see FAQ #999 on the BEA Web site, "Why does the capital consumption¬†adjustment for domestic business decline so much in the first quarter of 2012?" Click here for the full release &gt;
When Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke failed to rebuff a suggestion during his May 22 congressional testimony that the central bank could begin tapering back bond purchases in September, the stock market finally began to stumble. A rapid rise in U.S. Treasury yields had caused volatility in global markets since the beginning of May, but it wasn't until Bernanke's testimony that equities started to show weakness. Since then, equity investors around the world have faced increased volatility thanks to concerns that slowing of quantitative easing will happen sooner than expected, removing liquidity from the marketplace. The chart below, via Deutsche Bank economist¬†David Folkerts-Landau, shows just how hard tapering fears have hit several major markets across the world. In the equity space, the Brazilian Bovespa has been hit the hardest, followed by the Japanese Nikkei, the Shanghai Composite, and MSCI's broader emerging markets index. Deutsche Bank
Desjardins strategist Ed Sollbach put together an informative table showing every correction of 3.8% or more on the S&amp;P 500 since the stock market rally began in March 2009. In a note to clients Tuesday, Sollbach wrote: The S&amp;P 500 is in the midst of its 12th correction of 3.8% or more since March 2009, and the first 11 were buying opportunities. The S&amp;P 500 has corrected 5.8% over the last 33 days, compared with the average correction of 8.7% over 42 days. Certainly the spike in the VIX to 20.5 and the 4.2% correction in commodity prices suggest the correction is almost over. However, this is only the second correction associated with rising bond yields. After a 91bps spike since only May 2, we would like to see bond yields roll over, reducing the pressure on the all‚Äêimportant recovery in US housing and consumer spending. During the previous 11 corrections, bond yields eventually plunged with equities, so we would look at the beaten‚Äêdown interest sensitives at this point. (Yesterday, the S&amp;P 500 closed up 1.0%, and this morning, futures are up another 0.5%.) Desjardins Capital Markets, Bloomberg
At 8:30 a.m. ET, the Bureau of Economic Analysis will give us its third revision of Q1 GDP growth. According to the consensus as measured by Bloomberg, economists see the growth rate unrevised at 2.4%. However, Maury Harris and the U.S. economics team at UBS are not so optimistic. "Q1 real GDP growth will probably be trimmed to a 2.1% annual rate on softer consumer spending on services," they wrote in a note to clients on Friday. "Our monthly spending data through May are consistent with real consumer spending running at just below a 3% annual rate in Q2óclose to the estimated Q1 pace. PCE price measures are under additional scrutiny because of the Fed tilt toward tapering. Fed Chairman Bernanke has discounted some of the slowing in inflation, seeing it as transitory, but we forecast another 0.1% m/m rise in core PCE prices in May (with risks of a 0.2%)." While this is a backward looking indicator, the magnitude of the revision could be an unwelcome development for the already jittery financial markets. "Although not normally a big focus for markets we are expecting a downward revision to a 2.1% annualised rate," said UBS's Paul Donovan in his commentary this morning. "That may generate an impact, given the somewhat hysterical overreaction to anything that hints at changes in Fed policy." "Expect further market volatility and liquidity dislocations in the immediate period ahead," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian last Wednesday. "Most importantly, markets and the Fed are now even more highly dependent on sustained evidence that the real economy is indeed on a solid improving trends, including a consequential rise in actual and expected nominal GDP growth."
Flickr/vistavisionGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
I‚Äôm generally a pretty optimistic person. ¬†I adhere to the belief that human beings are naturally progressive and most of us wake up in the morning saying ‚ÄúI am going to be better than I was yesterday‚Äù. ¬†And that mentality, over the long-term, creates a very difficult hurdle for pessimists. If you‚Äôve ever looked at the performance of a short only fund over the course of a decade then you know what I mean. ¬†Shorting human progress is a very very difficult way to live your life. There is a risk, however, in this very optimistic view of the world. ¬†And if you‚Äôre not aware of it it can be the cause of unnecessary hardship. ¬†The following are a few of the risks to this view that you should always be aware of: I‚Äôm all for optimism. ¬†But be aware of the risks of an overly optimistic view of the world. ¬†I always say that we should be pragmatic optimists. ¬† ¬†Maintain an optimistic bias, but be aware of the potential near-term risks.
Emerging market currencies are in a well-known bear market. Today's big loser is the Indian Rupee. USDINR has gone above 60 for the first time, which means that it takes more than 60 rupees to get a dollar. XE.com
YouTube/The Secret World of GoldBack in the day, a few years ago, when gold was soaring, anti-Fed types saw this as indication that Bernanke was blowing bubbles and creating hyperinflation. Of course, the price of gold is just the price of gold, but it didn't stop people from making bold statements about how gold was "voting" against Fed policy so to speak. Well now gold is totally crashing. At the start of April it was near $1600/oz. This morning it's not much above $1200/oz. Today alone it's down over 3%. And this time it won't be the hard money inflation hawks who get nervous. It will be the deflation hawks. The latest turn down in gold comes as people worry about "the taper" and the notion that now Bernanke is being too tight, ignoring signs of disinflation or deflation while talking about exit scenarios. Larry Kudlow has already hinted that the gold crash is a warning to Bernanke over his latest moves. Of course, the price of gold is still just the price of gold, so you can't make a grand pronouncement about Fed policy from it. But watch for the folks who think Bernanke is being dangerous with his taper talk to start citing gold.
 It's now being reported by Sky News Australia that Australian PM Julia Gillard has been ousted by a vote of her own party. Gillard has been an unpopular figure, who had appeared to be headed towards a major defeat in the forthcmoing Australia general election, prompting cries with in her own labor party for a change of leadership. Former PM Kevin Rudd had put himself up for consideration, and so Gillard called for an emergency "spill" a vote within her own party, which she has lost.
YoutubeLONDON (Reuters) - Marc Rich, father of modern oil trading and founder of the group that became Glencore Xstrata, has died at the age of 78, the head of his philanthropic foundation said on Wednesday. Many of the biggest players in oil and metals trading trace their roots back to Rich, whose triumph in the 1960s and 70s was to create a spot market for oil, wresting business away from the world's big oil companies. Rich, however, was also a controversial figure. He was forced to flee the United States for Switzerland in 1983 after allegedly taking advantage of the 1980 U.S. embargo against Iran to make huge profits in illicit Iranian oil sale. "Marc Rich passed away this morning at his home in Lucerne. He will be brought to Israel for burial," Avner Azulay, managing director of Marc Rich Foundation, said by telephone. The Belgian-born son of Jewish refugees, Rich began his career with one of the biggest trading houses of the time, Philipp Brothers, subsequently Phibro, aged 20. He left in 1974 with a fellow graduate of the Phibro mailroom, Pincus "Pinky" Green, to set up Marc Rich and Co AG in Switzerland. That group would eventually become Glencore. "We are saddened to hear of the death of Marc," Glencore Xstrata Chief Executive Ivan Glasenberg said. "He was a friend and one of the great pioneers of the commodities trading industry, founding the company that became Glencore." Allegations of oil trading with Iran and tax evasion later landed Rich on the FBI's most-wanted list. He never returned to the United States after fleeing to Europe, although he received a presidential pardon from Bill Clinton on the president's last day in office. (Reporting by Ron Bousso, Clara Ferreira-Marques, Dmitry Zhdannikov; Editing by Andrew Callus) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The big story in markets is gold, which crashed over $50/oz or over 3% last night. But good news for gold investors: Silver did even worse. It lost about 5% on the night. From FinViz: FinViz
Markets aren't doing too much of anything. Japan fell by 1%. China was flat. Europe is rallying a bit. The big story: The gold crash. Overnight, the yellow metal fell by nearly $50/oz. Silver had a similarly brutal night. Kitco
