subarcticmike / FlickrGoldman Sachs recently released its Hedge Fund Trend Monitor, a massive report detailing the fourth quarter investment moves made by the world's biggest hedge funds. The big news was that Apple lost its spot as hedge funds' favorite stock. Believe it or not, Apple got dethroned by AIG, the beleaguered insurance company that was at the center of the financial crisis. AIG and Apple are constituents of Goldman's "Hedge Fund VIP (Very-Important-Positions)," a basket of 50 stocks that "mattered most" to hedge fund managers.¬† The all of the stocks rank among the top ten holdings of many of the biggest funds. "While Very Important Positions that ‚Äúmattered most‚Äù surged 23% last year, the typical fund returned just 8%, lagging the S&amp;P 500 by over 800 bp," wrote Goldman.
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderAfter two jam packed days of economic releases, Friday will be a slightly slower day. There are no U.S. economic releases scheduled, but several European and Canadian indicators will be released before markets open. Only three top securities in the U.S. will be releasing earning before markets open. Here's what you need to know (all times ET, consensus estimates from Bloomberg): Below are the top companies that will be posting fourth-quarter earnings reports before markets open tomorrow, along with consensus estimates from Bloomberg:
By EconMatters¬†  A Rough Start for 2013Well Gold hasn`t had a particularly good start to the year, in fact, a good pairs trade would be going long the S&amp;P 500 and short the Gold market for a nice 12% return in two months. But many Gold Investors are not yet ready to throw in the towel for 2013, and some even have targets in the 2000 an ounce area, and think this pullback, although significant, represents an excellent buying opportunity. A Buying Opportunity?Well, all those waiting for a pullback to get long on this Gold trade now have their opportunity. The real question is whether this is a good place to buy, or the proverbial ‚ÄúCatching a Falling Knife‚Äù? I put some charts together, and I will let you decide that one for yourself. Just watch for key technical levels that break, and protect yourselves with stops, and you will survive with little more than some flesh wounds if you are wrong. Charts Galore (click here for all 9 charts) Econmatters Econmatters¬© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle     Read more posts on EconMatters ¬ª
What's taking so long? According to Hoover Institution energy analyst Jeremy Clark, there is simply no urgency at the White House on the issue, so they see no problem with continuously punting. "I†don't think it's unimportant, but it's not so much at the core of his being that he's going to spend all his political capital on it," Clark told us Wednesday afternoon. The project, run by energy infrastructure megafirm Transcanada, would carry Canadian crude oil to the Gulf. We've previously discussed why, though it may prove a short-term economic boon and may help relieve oil price volatility, it would not lower gas prices. Technically, approval must come from the State Department. A department official recently told us there will be no decision until after March. But the State Department's decision is ultimately a recommendation, and the final say rests with him. Clark believes the project will ultimately get approved ó not doing so would create bad precedent and would infuriate Canada, he said. But the decision will likely come as part of a package that sees the administration pass ostensibly off-setting climate change policy to placate environmentalists. "I'm sure he's gonna try to do a deal, that's his nature," Clark said. "He's more of a '[voting] present' type of guy. My sense is if I were to place a bet that he will choose to approve it, but it will be interesting to see what he offers environmentalists in return."
About an hour before HP released its better-than-expected earnings, the stock started to climb, setting off a lot of grumblings on Twitter. As CNBC reported: Hewlett-Packard jumped more than 2 percent on heavy volume in the final hour of trading ahead of its earnings report. Traders cited short covering in the computer hardware giant amid hopes the company will surprise positively after the closing bell. Some folks on Twitter wondered aloud about it. Cheating wins on Wall St apparently. $HPQ twitter.com/TradeLeaps/staÖ heavily shorted stock rallies in final minutes before earnings beat $HPQ = monkey business, or one buyer set off a ton of short covering ? Seriously, when was the last time Hewlett-Packard spontaneously rallied into an earnings report? lol $HPQ ó tradefast (@tradefast) February 21, 2013 Really odd spike in $HPQ shares in the final hour of trading. It's almost like some traders got a look Q1 report early.
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderFolks in our newsroom get promotional packages from PR representatives on a daily basis. Most of it is junk that winds up on our office kitchen table, untouched. But today we got one from a winery called Cecchetti Wine Company that we actually thought was pretty funny. Here's why it worked (and no, not because it included two bottles of wine).
There can't possibly be a crisis here in Italy. That's because at upscale Milan grocery store la Rinascente, we came across a 300 euro bottle of water. For those unemployed or just poor, there's a cheaper 89 euro option. Anyway, here's a bottle of XMAS FANTASY GOLD bottle water, which costs 300 euros, and which you're not allowed to touch. Joe Weisenthal / Business Insider In case you don't believe that that's water, here's a closeup of the inscription: Limited edition springwater. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider And the aforementioned, cheapo 89 euro kind. It's called Bling, of course. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider
Shares of nutritional supplement seller Herbalife, the company that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman is shorting, tanked in after-hours trading during a CNBC report.† CNBC's Scott Wapner reported that one of Herbalife's 50 "Chairman's Club" members, may cut ties to the company. The "Chairman's Club" is reserved for the company's biggest distributors. According to Wapner, the unnamed distributor had a relationship with a delisted vendor that was used to generate business leads. Herbalife stock fell immediately on the news.† Wapner then added that Herbalife downplayed this news saying this distributor accounts for less than 1% of overall revenue.† The stock was last off more than 3.5% in after-hours trading.† Check out this screenshot: † And the chart: MarketWatch SEE ALSO: Bill Ackman's Massive Herbalife Short Case &gt;
Bloomberg TVHuw PillGoldman Sachs Chief European Economist Huw Pill and his team are out with a new report on the fiscal situation in the euro zone, and they are very much focused on debt. Specifically, the report takes aim at some of the eurozone's biggest economies. While smaller economies like those of Greece, Portugal, and Ireland have submitted to international rescue programs ‚Äì mostly allaying fears over outsized debt loads ‚Äì others remain "too big to bail," so to speak. In the report, Pill¬†writes, "Government debt sustainability is achievable in the largest Euro area economies, but further consolidation will be required to ensure this outcome in Italy, France and Spain." Goldman's Europe economists point to one of the central sources of tension in the ongoing euro crisis ‚Äì the inability of euro-area governments to meet their own budgeting goals. The Goldman economists write (emphasis added): While weak growth is a key near-term risk to debt accumulation, the medium-term risks focus on the ability of governments to maintain large primary budget surpluses and avoid ‚Äòfiscal fatigue‚Äô. Simply attaining our base-case scenario of debt dynamics requires that after half a decade of austerity, as growth returns and market pressure eases, no subsequent fiscal easing occurs. But governments have had difficulties in the past preventing public¬†spending from increasing when the ‚Äògood times‚Äô return. That said, while the primary surplus requirement is large, on our projections headline budget figures in Italy, France and notably Spain remain in deficit for most or all of the next 20 years. With public attention focused on the headline figures, ongoing deficits may help contain fiscal spending pressures. Fiscal rules and institutions that ensure that primary surpluses are maintained will thus¬†become increasingly important. Recent and potential budget target misses means that the¬†credibility of European fiscal rules is still in question. Structural balance budget rules have been implemented, but their effectiveness are yet to be tested. And more ambitious targets may be needed to secure sufficiently fast debt reduction. Debt sustainability of Euro area¬†countries hinges on governments‚Äô ability to prevent future surpluses from being eroded by¬†spending pressures. Securing the credibility of European institutions in enforcing medium-term budget surpluses would, in our view, go a long way in reducing current fiscal risk in the Euro area. What does Goldman have in mind? The chart below shows the bank's projections for how much austerity each of the four largest economies in the euro zone will have to undertake to get to balanced budgets by 2016. Eurostat, Nat. sources, GS Global ECS Research The Goldman economists acknowledge that in the short run, there are risks to fiscal tightening, writing, "while fiscal tightening affects the structural part of the primary balance, it weighs on growth and adverse growth shocks can easily undo structural budget improvements (at least temporarily)." Over a more medium-term timeframe, however, they suggest two solutions for reducing government debt:
Getty Images/Jason Kempin/StaffCitigroup's new CEO Michael Corbat was awarded $11.5 million in compensation for 2012, according to Bloomberg News.† Corbat became CEO of Citi back in October of last year when Vikram Pandit suddenly resigned.† Now let's compare his comp to the rest of the Street.† Goldman Sachs†CEO†Lloyd Blankfein†took home $21 million†for 2012 and†Jefferies awarded its†CEO†Richard Handler†$19 million†for 2012.† JPMorgan's CEO Jamie Dimon took home $11.5 million†following the "London Whale" trade debacle and Bank of American's CEO Brian Moynihan was given†$11 million in stock comp for last year.
In the last few weeks, it has almost seemed like there are two (or three) contradictory economies when it comes to hiring and spending.  Did the economy suddenly tank in January (Daily Treasury Statement suddenly pulling in much less than expected, Walmart fearful of a sudden decline in sales)?  Or is the consumer on a tear (Gallup Daily Spending making, and continuing, new post-recession highs)?  Or is it somewhere in between (ICSC and Johnson Redbook same store sales at the lower end of their 2012 YoY range)?¬† The payroll tax increase is real. It ought to be showing up in either decreased spending, decreased savings, increased credit, or some mix of the three. This is a real quandary, and being a total nerd, I did what total nerds do: I made a spreadsheet of the data to see if there were any tell-tales about what is the actual state of the consumer and employment.  And lo and behold, there are some very telling clues. It looks like there really¬†are¬†three results. As we'll see below, low end consumer spending is getting hammered, mid-level consumers are impacted but holding their own, and high end consumers, gifted with income moved forward from 2013 to 2012, have been spending with wild abandon - so far. So first of all, let's go to the data. Below is a chart of the YoY percentage change in the weekly ICSC and JR same store sales. Next is the YoY $ change for the 14 day rolling average of Gallup Daily Consumer Spending. The final column is the YoY percentage change for the 20 days of withholding taxes paid.  These are all series that I report on each Saturday. The chart starts with the week of November 3, 2012, and continues up through last week. The last two lines are the December average vs. the average of the last four weeks:¬† What caught my eye was the extremely sudden spike in positive YoY withholding taxes paid in the 20 day average once the end of December and beginning of January were added in. This coincides with the huge gain in personal income reported for December. Twenty reporting days later, the spike completely reversed. I wondered if there was an anomaly, so I checked each individual day, and compared it with the prior year. And sure enough, it turns out that in just 2 days - December 31, 2012 and January 2, 2013, $70 Billion in withholding taxes were reported! A comparison with the 2011-2012 shows that while $30 Billion was also reported on January 2, 2012, only $11 Billion was reported on December 31, 2011 vs.¬†$45 Billion¬†on December 31, 2012!¬†All 4 of these series show the marked impact from Hurricane Sandy in November. By the beginning of December, however, all of them have bounced back. The differences start appearing at the end of December. Both same store sales series start to show deceleration YoY. They are still positive, but at the low end of their recent ranges. Both Gallup and withholding taxes, however, show a very strong increase. In the case of withholding taxes, the increase totally reverses to outright declines by the end of January, while Gallup consumer spending continues to be very strong. In other words, there was a huge shift in payroll tax reporting from 2013 to 2012. Undoubtedly a large share if not an outright majority represented things like enhanced bonuses paid to beat the presumed tax increase in 2013 (remember that the "fiscal cliff" wasn't resolved until just hours before the end of the year, so employers had no way of knowing that tax rates would be kept constant, e.g., on incomes up to $400,000 or higher). This is of a piece with the huge spike in personal income reported for December -- about a 2.5% increase in just one month, where 0.1% or 0.2% increases are more the norm. Further, much or most of those huge bonuses, etc., being "found money", were likely to be splurged on goods - and the money wasn't all necessarily going to be spent in January. That looks like the explanation for the continuing surge in Gallup's daily consumer spending report.¬† But how do we square that with the ICSC and JR same store sales reports, and the Walmart emails of sales falling off a cliff at the beginning of February?¬† We know that WalMart accounts for a huge share of lower end spending. Further, they no longer participate in the same store sales reports. This means that the ICSC and JR reports are almost certainly skewed away from low end sales. Comparing December and January, the ICSC and JR YoY percentage increases have decelerated by about 30%. That suggests that the consumers they are measuring are absorbing about 70% of the payroll tax increase and replacing it with spending out of savings and/or increased credit. Walmart's shoppers, who are more likely to be living paycheck to paycheck, can't do that and are bearing the full brunt of the payroll tax increase. (This morning it is reported that WalMart is laying most of this off on delayed tax refunds. Since their results aren't transparent on a weekly or monthly basis, there's no way to know how much this impacts my analysis).¬† But what about Gallup? Gallup's sample certainly includes WalMart shoppers. But Gallup is reporting the average, rather than the median, daily spending of consumers, and it is also catching the very high end. Suppose the ICSC and JR reports do not sufficiently capture the high end? Then the surge in high-end spending is only showing up in the Gallup report, which is, for now, being overwhelmed by that surge.¬† If that is true, then the data from all four series, and the WalMart reports, all make sense. WalMart shoppers, with little savings, are buying markedly less than before the payroll tax kicked in, perhaps spending a full 2% less. Middle brow shoppers are taking some money out of savings or increasing their use of credit, and are pulling back less than 1%. High end shoppers are still spending the enormous sums of discretionary income that they received in December to beat the tax increase.¬† There will be two keys to the unfolding of this scenario. One is to watch for when the bonus money runs out. This will be reflected in Gallup's Daily Consumer Spending report. There is some evidence that this may already be happening. In the last 6 reporting days, the average of consumer spending has fallen back below $80. The second key will be to watch for when tax withholding returns to a more normal YoY pattern. That will tell us when the decrease in 2013 income due to it being pulled forward into 2012 is over. That could be happening now, or it might not happen for several more months.¬† Until that happens, I fully expect the bite from the payroll tax increase to intensify.
It's absolutely frigid in the New York City but a bunch of young people will be thinking about weekends in the Hamptons today ‚Äî Ruschmeyer's is now taking reservations. If you're not familiar with the hotel, it may be because you're not a "Hampster" (Hamptons + Hipster), the term coined by blog Guest of a Guest to describe the young Warby Parker wearing crowd that flocks to the hotel pool every weekend. Now, just because "Hampster" contains the word Hipster don't think of this crowd as your Brooklyn, broke artist type. Rooms start at $335 over the weekend and cocktails cost about $14. The hip element comes from the hotel's design. It's very minimal ‚Äî Think: Rooms with bunk beds and decor that includes teepees with ironic quotes on the walls. On Saturday nights especially Ruschmeyer's has come to be considered one of the hottest spots in the Hamptons, despite its tip-of-Long Island Montauk location. Start thinking summer.
We're hiring a Research Analyst to join the quickly expanding Business¬†Insider¬†Intelligence team. What Is BI Intelligence? BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from Business Insider that provides insights, data, and tech industry analysis.¬†We publish notes and in-depth reports as well as an exhaustive library of charts and data that help subscribers stay on top of key tech trends.¬†The service, launched in 2012,¬†has experienced rapid growth and is now expanding to analyze all things social media. This complements our existing focus on the mobile industry. We plan to expand further in the near future.¬†Check out BII¬†here. What's The Job? We're looking for a hardworking Research Analyst with extremely strong writing, analytic, and data-processing skills to focus on social media topics.¬†We serve a rapidly growing subscriber base of mobile, media, advertising/marketing, and tech professionals.¬†The ideal applicant will have a voracious appetite for tech and social media news, and the ability to cut through noise by putting hard numbers to important trends.¬† The candidate will work with the Editorial Director and the analyst team¬†to¬†produce original in-depth reports, news notes, and daily charts.¬†This job requires resourcefulness and creativity in finding relevant data sets, and an ability to think critically in order to identify insights of real value.  The role offers a unique chance to help build a new focus area for our research service from the ground up and become an expert in social media and the Internet industry. The environment will be dynamic, and fast-paced as we expand from our original focus area in mobile. The position is full-time and is based in our New York City office.¬† Desired Skills &amp; Experience: Most importantly, a robust analytical background is a requirement. Here are some of the other traits the ideal candidate possesses: Skill level: This role would be an excellent way to develop a career in digital media, market research/consulting, or business journalism. If interested, please email a short cover letter, writing samples, and resume to Marcelo Ballv√© (mballve@businessinsider.com). Thank you in advance.
The automatic budget cuts set to hit every level of the federal government will bring a shortened workweek and a smaller paycheck for the majority of the Defense Department's civilian workers, according to a report from Fox News. About 800,000 DoD civilian employees will see one less day of work per week, along with a pay cut of 20 percent from late April through September if Congress fails to stop $46 billion in across-the-board defense budget cuts set to take effect March 1. The pay cut comes on top of over two years of frozen wages due to a civilian pay freeze initiated in Dec. 2010. While working for the federal government has plenty of benefits, the¬†pay scale varies¬†with top earners making almost $130,000 annually, and bottom earners making just above $17,000. Civilian workers work alongside military personnel¬†worldwide, in base shopping facilities, schools, day cares, and make up 40 percent of staff in base hospitals and clinics. "An employee in the middle of the pay scale, earning about $50,000 a year, takes home between $500 and $600 a week after subtracting health insurance, retirement and taxes," J. David Cox Sr., president of the¬†American Federation of Government Employees, said in a press release.¬†"Taking away one day‚Äôs pay every week could mean the difference between covering the mortgage and putting food on the table." Communities nationwide will also see dire economic consequences from the cuts, according to military leaders.¬†Hardest hit would be Texas, Alabama, Virginia, Pennsylvania.¬†In just those four states, the Army estimates an impact on 95,685 jobs,¬†according to the Military Times.¬† ‚ÄúWhile civilians will experience the impact directly to their wallets, our service members, retirees and families will clearly feel the effect of these actions," said Jessica Lynn Wright, acting under secretary of defense for personnel and readiness.¬†"If sequestration is not averted, the associated furloughs will impact our war fighters, our veterans and our family members in untold ways.‚Äù
Josh Hedges/Zuffa LLC via Getty ImagesIt was another down day for stocks. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,880, -46.9 pts, -0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,502, -9.5 pts, -0.6 percentNASDAQ: 3,131. -32.9 pts, -1.0 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
GreenlightHedge fund manager David Einhorn, the CEO of $8 billion Greenlight Capital, wrapped up an hour-long conference call about Apple. Einhorn, whose fund owned ~1.5 million Apple shares at the end of the fourth quarter, has been taking aim at the tech giant's massive cash hoard. † Einhorn has been†urging Apple investors to vote "No" on Apple's Proposal 2 in its proxy†later this month†that will eliminate the company's ability to issue preferred stock. During his call today, he laid out his plan for Apple. †Essentially, what he wants Apple to do issue perpetual preferred stock ó what he calls "iPrefs."† What's more is Einhorn said that Apple wouldn't even have to use that massive $137 billion cash pile, which he called a "war vault."† "In the last week, Mr. Cook has called the idea 'creative,' and said that Apple would study the† proposal carefully.† We look forward to meeting with Mr. Cook and his team shortly," Einhorn said on the call. We've included screenshots of his webcast presentation in the slides that follow.†
Tesla's stock is down over 9.5 percent after it reported a Q4 loss of $0.65 per share, which was wider than analysts expectations of a $0.53 per share loss. Tesla also said that first quarter cancellations are likely to remain elevated as people with older reservations for cars will have to "configure their vehicles within a set timeframe or pay the higher price just like new reservation holders". While Tesla Motors said it expects to generate "slightly positive" net income in Q1 2013, some like Ryan Brinkman at JP Morgan are still skeptical on the stock. From Barron's: "While gross margin tracked slightly better than our model in the fourth quarter, we are unsure Tesla will be able to realize as great an amount of manufacturing cost savings, with inefficiencies continuing to be driven by premium labor, premium freight, and unabsorbed overhead costs."...Wednesday's results will not change the big picture debates about the stock, and may even heighten concerns relative to order cancellations," notes Brinkman, who sees above-average execution risk for Tesla. Meanwhile, Bank of America's John Lovallo downgraded the stock to underperform, saying he thinks demand for electric cars will be "tepid" until technology catches up and consumers don't have to "pay a premium or sacrifice convenience". He thinks the stock is too expensive and has a price target of $30. He lowered his 2013 profit estimate to $0.10 per share, down from $0.30 per share. Here's a look at the beating Tesla's stock is taking: YahooFinance
AP ImagesClosely-followed hedge fund manager David Einhorn, the CEO of Greenlight Capital who is taking aim at Apple over its massive $137 billion cash hoard, just wrapped up a conference call with Apple shareholders. Greenlight has been†urging Apple investors to vote "No" on Apple's Proposal 2 in its proxy†later this month†that will eliminate the company's ability to issue preferred stock. Einhorn is also battling the tech giant in Federal District Court in Manhattan. Essentially, Greenlight says Apple is attempting to bundle three reforms, two of which he would normally support, into one provision and Einhorn thinks that violates the SEC's proxy rules. †The New York Times' Michael de La Merced reported†that the federal judge is leaning in Einhorn's favor after a hearing on Tuesday. Apple's CEO Tim Cook called Einhorn's lawsuit a "silly sideshow" during the Goldman Sachs Tech Conference in San Francisco earlier this month. Greenlight owned 1,582,006 shares in Apple (275,000 of those are call options) at the end of Q4, according to a 13F filing with the SEC.† We've included all the highlights below. He's only taking questions about Apple. He says if Wall St. can't be counted on the key to survival is "rainy day funds."  Apple can unlock value by deploying the cash productively or returning cash to shareholders, he says. There are 4 conventional ways for distributing cash to shareholders, he explains: * One time dividend * One time large share repurchase. He estimates they could unlock $89 per share. * Large on going share repurchases (he estimates Apple could buy back 6% of its shares each year). He estimates this plan can unlock $79 per share. * Doubling the dividend&nbsp;   He says iPrefs are a form of equity, not debt. He says there would be no balance sheet risk.
Rothschild's motions to take control of the board were rejected by shareholders at an extraordinary meeting. The board said it would now move on the plan by the politically-connected Bakries to divorce from Bumi Plc by selling their 23.8 percent stake in the group, in return for 10.3 percent of the highly prized Indonesia-based Bumi Resources, the crown jewel of the joint venture. If agreed, the Bakries would buy the remaining 18.9 percent stake of Bumi Resources from Bumi for $278 million. Calling the shareholder vote "an endorsement of the Board's strategy," the company said it "will now prioritise ... the execution of the separation from the Bakrie Group and PT Bumi Resources Tbk and will put this transaction to shareholders for approval as soon as possible." Bumi Plc was co-founded by Rothschild and the Bakries in a $3 billion deal in 2011 in a bid to become one of the biggest global players in the coal industry and leverage Indonesian coal firms, including Bumi Resources, to London. The Jakarta-listed Bumi Resources is the country's biggest thermal coal miner and is and is the heartbeat of the Bakrie family's business empire. The Bakrie family and Rothschild began to tussle over control of the joint venture soon after it was founded, however. The rift peaked last year when Bumi ordered an independent probe into allegations concerning potential financial irregularities in Bumi Resources, which was followed by the resignations of Rotshchild and one of the Bakrie brothers from the board. The Bakries blamed Rothschild over the battle that caused Bumi's share price collapse last year. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Demonstrably cheap money is not the answer.† The real constraint on the economy is two pronged: 1. expectations of low growth keep corporations from investing funds and instead they hold large sums of cash on their balance sheets and 2. continued high unemployment and a continued deleveraging of household debt keeps consumers from spending.† We have discussed this before and used the term to describe it as a "liquidity trap."† Despite the evidence that QE is not working as planned (employment and GDP remain lackluster) the Fed continues on this course as QE has become the proverbial financial crack pipe that allows the asset markets to continue higher and higher. Surely inflating housing, stock and bond prices by governmental money printing is a good thing, right?† Ask Alan Greenspan how well the Fed's last foray into propping up asset prices worked out for them.† Every time the government decides to manipulate markets, there are many very unpleasant unintended consequences. Under Greenspan artificially low rates were used to expand the housing market and allow businesses and consumers to get cheap money to leverage up their balance sheets.† As we know, it ended badly. The unintended consequences were that the entire financial system almost collapsed and the stock market had its worst retracement since the Great Depression. The real danger of QE is not the risk of hyperinflation, but the possibility that there is a "bubble" created in the bond market by artificial government purchases and that eventually there will be some failed auctions followed by a quick sharp rise in rates.† This rise in rates will affect mortgages, consumer debt and, perhaps most alarmingly, the Federal debt cost.† A quick rise in mortgage rates will not only slow down home purchases, but will add to the costs of anyone who has an adjustable rate.† The Shadow Inventory which is still estimated at over 2.3 million homes will start to increase again as people are unable to make the drastically higher mortgage payments.† Car loans, credit card payments, student loans and other consumer debt costs will increase and further dampen demand.† Inflated asset prices will turn over violently. While many pundits agree that the bond market will eventually pay for the Fed induced asset inflation, they do not seem to be outwardly worried about a quick, vicious rise in long term rates and the financial calamity to follow.† Goldman Sachs, however, has recently reduced its exposure to the bond market while at the same time has locked in low borrowing costs to the tune of $8 billion.† They expect a 25% drop in bond prices. Many credit Albert Einstein with defining insanity as "doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result." The Bernanke Fed's use of Quantitative Easing may seem different than the easy money policies of the Greenspan Fed on the surface, but the ultimate payoff of artificially inflated asset prices will end up with similar results.† And by the look of the S&amp;P 500's long term chart, it looks like it is about to peak soon, and form a significant triple top with the 2000 and 2007 peaks-see the attached chart.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Doug Kass Thinks Investors Are Not Being Realistic In Their Expectations (The Wall Street Journal) After the 108 point decline in the Dow yesterday, the Wall Street Journal quotes hedge fund manager Doug Kass saying he is "as bearish on stocks as I have been in some time": "At the core of my concern is that a global economy built on a foundation of excessive monetary easing is one of low quality, decaying fundamentals and not likely to be effective or self-sustaining. "To me investors are not being realistic in their expectations (and almost magical thinking) that an aggressive printing press can relieve and trump the profound challenges and headwinds to global growth without any negative consequences. "I remain concerned that much of the current investor optimism expressed in a rising stock market is not consistent with the underlying economic and profit data." Trend Followers Will Take The Biggest Hit (Price Action Lab Blog) The market has been moving sideways for several weeks, according to Michael Harris, and the Dow Jones ETF has been in a 1.5 percent band for the past 17 days which has never occurred before. Whenever there has been a similar confinement it has been followed by "four month of sideways and volatile motion". While there isn't clear causality it is important to be aware of this. "If the market goes into an extended period of volatile and sideways action, the first victims will be trend followers who have made most of their gains this year from trends in stock indices," writes Harris. "But systematic trend followers are an easy prey." How Advisors Can Better Work With Widows (Advisor Perspectives) There are currently 12 million widows in the U.S. and some 800,000 are expected to become widows each year according to Kathleen Reh, CFP. She writes that 70 percent of widows change advisors once their spouse dies. With that in mind Rehl has some pointers for advisors on how to work with widows. 1. Be a good listener 2. Become her "thinking partner" and give her written summaries of meetings 3. Tell her to take her time on decisions that don't need immediate attention 4. Make her feel secure, remember she is not usually "interested in beating the market" 5. Help her with tasks that could overwhelm her like going to attorneys to figure out how to settle the estate 6. Show compassion by urging her to take part in grief support services.† Rehl also warns advisors about using platitudes in dealing with widows and urges advisors not overwhelm them with charts and quarterly reports. Hedge Funds Are Dumping Gold (Goldman Sachs) Hedge funds have been lowering their holdings of long-time favorites like gold, according to Goldman Sachs' Hedge Fund Trend Monitor report.† "Holdings in GLD were also lower than they have been in at least four years, equaling just 0.6% of long positions as the ETF fell 6% in price..." Goldman Sachs  Dennis Gartman Is Exiting All His Bullish Positions (The Gartman Letter) In the latest Gartman Letter, Dennis Gartman says there has been a "tectonic shift" in capital markets. He thinks stock markets have ended their bull run and that both the broader indices and individual stocks have reversed. "We have been openly bullish of equities unerringly since late last year and became even more so on the first day of this year when the indices all 'gapped' higher on huge volume. We had no choice but to be bullish; the markets were powering higher and they had the fuel from the monetary authorities to do so.† "Now, however, that fuel is thought to be pushed a bit away; the "punch bowl" has been moved nearly out of reach and that alone would be sufficient to force us to change our bullish posture. But with the technical in the markets breaking down as badly as they have we've no choice but to exit any and all bullish constructed positions and rush to the sidelines."
Best-selling crime writer¬†Patricia Cornwell¬†has walked away with a massive $51 million award in a lawsuit against her financial advisory firm. Cornwell accused New York-based¬†Anchin, Block &amp; Anchin LLP and its former principal, Evan Snapper, of losing tens of millions of dollars of her fortune just years after she hired them in 2005.¬† A¬†federal court jury ruled the firm had been negligent in managing Cornwell's accounts, which lost $89 million and dragged her net worth down to $13 million.¬† And it could get a lot worse. A judge is expected to rule on a whole different set of charges Thursday ‚Äì‚Äì that the firm violated consumer protections ‚Äì‚Äì which could as much as triple the damages, the Boston Globe reports. This is a huge win. That a federal court has held a financial advisory firm accountable for losses incurred during a recession means it could become a lot harder for firms to chalk up mismanagement to economic triggers that are beyond their control.  And it could also give regulators the extra boost they need to tighten fiduciary duty standards for advisory firms.¬† "We are deeply gratified by this victory," Cornwell said in a statement. "This case was about a lot more than financial mismanagement.¬† It is our belief that Anchin, Block &amp; Anchin not only took advantage of us, they also tried to damage our reputations and put us in legal jeopardy." Anchin has been tight-lipped but has offered this statement to news outlets: "In the days ahead we will be exploring our legal options, including appealing today's verdict. We continue to believe the firm acted professionally and appropriately." We tracked down Cornwell's original complaint to find out more. Scroll down to read the full document below.¬† "[Cornwell's advisor Evan Snapper] pleaded guilty in 2011 to lying about the source of 21 contributions of $2,300 each to Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign," according to the AP.¬† In the original complaint, which was filed by Cornwell and her wife in 2009, Cornwell lays out a ton of other unexplained charges the firm paid on her behalf. -They allegedly used Cornwell's¬†cash to finance a private helicopter.-Cornwell allegedly found a check for $5,000 written from her account to Snapper's daughter for her bat mitzvah.¬†-By 2007, Anchin allegedly paid itself $1 million "without providing bills, or billing detail or back-up".-One of Cornwell's business associates was allegedly paid $11,000 as a "gift" but never received it.¬†-Checks and transfers made to a car company that related to cars Cornwell claims she never owned.-And reimbursements for Anchin employee expenses, including entertainment and travel purchases allegedly made by Snapper.¬† And all long, Cornwell claims the firm never supplied monthly or quarterly balance sheets and financial statements. ¬† Cornwell essentially gave the firm complete financial control over her assets, including her business, Cornwell Enterprises, Inc. (CEI).¬† Snapper is quoted in the complaint as telling Cornwell the firm would "do everything for its clients¬†including buying and delivering their toilet paper."¬† It was¬†ideal for the author, who admitted to having bi-polar disorder and needed an advisory firm that would hold the reins so she could write in peace (she was currently earning eight figures/year in the crime-writing business). That meant letting the firm handle everything from bills and taxes to registering her cars and, of course, choosing her investments. "Anchin selected all such¬†investments without input from Ms. Cornwell," the complaint alleges. "Upon finally learning of the extent of the investment losses, insisted that the investments¬†be transferred to bonds."¬† Cornwell claims Anchin missed a crucial step ‚Äì‚Äì asking her how much risk she was willing to take on.¬† "Apart from this conversation, no one ... ever discussed with Ms. Cornwell or Dr. Gruber their risk tolerance and investment objective," the complaint says.¬† Word to the wise: If you walk into an financial advisory office and two of the first words out of their mouths aren't "risk" and "tolerance," that's a good sign it's time to run for the exit. Cornwell is best known for her popular mystery novels featuring¬†Kay Scarpetta. Patricia Cornwell vs. Achin Complaint by  
(Reuters) - A Goldman Sachs private wealth client is the holder of the Swiss account at the center of an investigation into insider trading in H.J. Heinz Cooptions, regulators said in a court filing late Wednesday. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a lawsuit against unknown traders last week, alleging they used a Goldman account in Zurich to buy an unusual amount of Heinz options the day before the ketchup maker agreed to sell itself for $23 billion. In an SEC application to freeze the defendants' assets, dated February 15 but filed with the court Wednesday, staff attorney David Brown said the commission had been told by Goldman that "the account holder is a Goldman Sachs Private Wealth client in Switzerland." In another application also dated February 15 and filed Wednesday, Brown's colleague Megan Bergstrom said Goldman had informed the SEC "it does not have direct access to information about the beneficial owner or owners behind any particular transaction or position" in the account. A Goldman Sachs spokesman declined comment on the latest filings. The firm has said it was cooperating fully with the SEC investigation. In addition to the SEC probe, the FBI said this week it is also looking into the case. Heinz agreed February 14 to sell itself to Warren Buffett's conglomerate Berkshire Hathawayand the Brazilian private equity firm 3G Capital for $72.50 per share in cash, a 19 percent premium to where the stock closed the prior day. According to the SEC, the unknown defendants generated a profit of nearly $1.8 million by buying contracts betting the stock would surge. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Google Images Prince Harry has a new girlfriend ‚Äî the blue-eyed, blonde, and beautiful British socialite Cressida Bonas. The two were just spotted by The Daily Mail cozying up while vacationing at an exclusive ski resort in Verbier, Switzerland. They reportedly "kissed like lovestruck teenagers in the back of a cinema" while at dinner with Prince Harry's family, The Daily Mail reported. Later, they hugged on the slopes, where they were photographed by paparazzi.¬† Reports say the pair started dating last May after being introduced by Harry's cousin Princess Eugenie, but cooled when the prince's naked pictures from Vegas surfaced. Seems like they are very much back together. Since the latest photos surfaced, Bonas has jumped to the top of The Tatler List, an ever-changing "who's who" of people who are being buzzed about in the UK. So who is Cressida Bonas? The 24-year-old model and would-be-actress is the daughter of Lady Mary Gaye Curzon, a British "It" girl from the 1960s who is four times divorced, according to The Daily Mail. Her father is Jeffrey Bonas, who studied at Harrow and Oxford before becoming an entrepreneur and businessman, according to E! Online. Like Prince Harry's ex Chelsy Davy, Bonas studied at Leeds University after attending the elite Stowe School, where boarding students pay $46,000 a year, according to The Daily Mail. She's also dabbled in acting, having played Desdemona in Othello while at Leeds, according to The Mirror. Bonas is not the first person in her family with ties to royalty. Her older half-sister is Isabella Gough-Calthorpe, a British movie star, a rumored former flame of Prince William, and fianc√© of Richard Branson's son Sam, according to The Daily Mail. A true blue blood, Bonas is friends with Princess Eugenie, who set her up with the prince, as well as Arthur Landon, a young socialite who stands to inherit some $300 million, according to The Mirror. Landon is also close friends with Prince Harry, and defended him after his now-infamous bender in Las Vegas, The Daily Mail reported at the time. Prior to linking up with the prince, Bonas used to date Harry Wentworth-Stanley, whose stepfather is a cousin the Queen, according to The Mirror.
Shorting the yen has earned George Soros more than $1 billion in profits since November. Now Soros has set his sights on the second-most-shorted currency in the world - the British pound. And he may have company, as the Financial Times reports: Along with Soros Fund Management, Tudor Investment Corp., Caxton Associates and Moore Capital - some of the best global macro traders - "see similarities in UK's predicament to that of Japan" and are interested in shorting the pound. This adds to worries about the pound, which has already fallen 5% this year. And with exports falling, productivity low, and gross domestic product shrinking last quarter, Britain's economic outlook is foggy at best. "There could be a dramatic weakening of the pound this year," one of the world's top macro hedge fund managers, who declined to be named because he does not want his firm's positions becoming public, told the FT. For Britain's sake, let's hope that weakening doesn't lead to another "Black Wednesday," Sept. 16, 1992 - the day George Soros "broke" the Bank of England. Sept. 16 is the day Soros profited more than $1 billion by shorting the pound. Technically, the Bank of England didn't break, but by short-selling $10 billion worth of pounds, Soros forced the British government to withdraw the pound from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) - a monetary system introduced in 1979 in preparation for the current European Union and use of the euro. Soros saw the inflationary actions of the British government and the structure of the ERM had caused the pound to be overvalued. Now there are once again concerns over the pound's valuation, stemming from the appointment of Mark Carney, the current Bank of Canada governor, as the next governor of the Bank of England. Investors expect Britain to have annual inflation higher than 3.2 % over the next decade - the highest among major economies. And Carney, who will replace Sir Mervyn King as governor of the BOE in July, said he will allow higher inflation than his predecessor. The BOE's Monetary Policy Committee also supported higher inflation targets in its February inflation report. "Attempting to bring inflation back to the target sooner by removing the current policy stimulus more quickly than currently anticipated by financial markets would risk derailing the recovery and undershooting the inflation target in the medium term," the MPC said in the report. Yet, traders fear Carney will pump too much stimulus into the economy, raising inflation and devaluing the pound even more. "[Hedge funds] are now looking very closely at what they can do with sterling," Rob Kaplan, chief investment officer of Permal, one of the world's largest investors in hedge funds, told the Financial Times. "With Carney coming in, there are interesting opportunities [either] shorting sterling or going long volatility on sterling." The best way to short the pound is through options, which can be done in the FOREX market, a global market that deals only with currencies and currency contracts. There's also the CurrencyShares British Pound ETF (NYSE: FXB), which tracks the pound. And besides shorting the pound, or sterling, another way to play its negativity is with inflation-linked bonds. "I'd lean towards further weakness in sterling and appetite for inflation-linked bonds," a senior government bond trader at a U.S. bank told the Financial Times. "The clearest trade for me is for a steepening of yields."
The former supervisor of Kweku Adoboli, the UBS rogue trader who lost the firm $2.2 billion†on the ETF desk in London, got a big promotion at his new firm. From the Financial Times:† John DiBacco, who was terminated by the Swiss bank for a failure to supervise after Adoboliís crimes came to light in September 2011, was hired by Getco last March and has since been promoted to run its global equities business. Mr DiBacco, now set to run global equities when the merger between the firms is completed, has said he disagreed with UBSís assessment of his performance. He will be the Global Head of Equities Trading at Getco once it completes its merger with Knight Capital, according to a release. DiBacco, who was based in New York, was fired from UBS in January 2012. †UBS alleged that he "failed to ensure appropriate systems were in place to minimize the risk of unauthorized trading on the ETF desk in London," FINRA records show. He worked at UBS from 1999 until that point, the records show. He graduated from MIT with a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering, according to his LinkedIn profile.
Yesterday Sony "unveiled" its next-generation console, the Playstation 4. There was nothing revealed about the console price or exact date of availability. Goldman Sachs weighed in on the event, and it's more negative than positive.  Lead analyst Takashi Watanabe of Goldman Sach's Japan, sees positives for the PS4, which include "the introduction of software development-friendly architecture and easy access to premium games such as Diablo <U+2162>." The firm also sees risk of a "downward spiral"†just as game platforms have extended to smartphones and PCs: in addition to dedicated consoles, we see little reason for developers to produce top titles for platforms with a low installed base; in turn there is a danger the installed base will not grow because the content lineup is weak. Watanabe believes that the PS4's incompatibility to play PS3 discs is a serious disadvantage (PS3 games can only be streamed). This means software makers will have to develop software specifically for PS4. The PS4's potential to monetize in areas other than games is a huge benefit if the console can be marketed as a home entertainment server instead of simply a gaming platform. Goldman is advising Sony to capitalize on the home server characteristics of the console in its marketing strategy.
Google FinanceIt's another ugly day in the markets.¬† Stocks are selling off again today, and oil prices are getting walloped. This comes after a jump in initial jobless claims and a horrific plunge in the Philly Fed Index number. Oil prices are down 2.4%. Earlier, Europe posted its latest PMI numbers and they were uglier than expected.¬† France's economy appears to be crumbling as its PMI number sank to a 47-month low. ¬† Click Here For Updates &gt;
Bank of America Merrill LynchThere's no question that gold prices have been in a jaw-dropping long-term bull market for basically a hundred years. This has led some expert like George Soros to call it the "ultimate bubble." But with global central banks expanding the money supply as they embark on ultra-easy monetary policy, many gold bulls like Marc Faber and David Rosenberg have called for prices to go higher. There are also the ultra-bulls who think gold is headed for the stratosphere.¬† For whatever reason, they argue that it could be worth multiples of where it is today.¬† We've heard targets from $5,000 to $10,000. There's even a rationale for gold at $46,000/Oz. With prices plummeting, we thought it would be a good time to revisit some of the wildest gold price targets we've heard in the last year.
Yesterday, gold hit the "death cross" ñ an indicator used by technical analysts that triggers a trading signal when the 50-day average gold price crosses below the 200-day average. The chart below (click to enlarge) shows what it looks like. The light blue line is the 50-day moving average and the purple line is the 200-day moving average. Yesterday, they crossed. Thinkorswim The last time gold hit the "death cross" ñ in April 2012 ñ gold fell 9.1 percent over the next month before rebounding. The previous "death cross" ñ which you have to go back to September 2008 to find ñ resulted in an 18 percent drop over the next 8 weeks before turning around and heading higher. However, if you look at the last 22 times gold hit the "death cross" in aggregate, the picture changes quite a bit. Schaeffers Investment Research analyst Ryan Detrick crunched the numbers.†Eric Sprott and the WSJ pointed us to this. Here is what Detrick found: the "death cross" ñ at least when it comes to gold ñ is a bit of a false indicator. On average, gold has actually posted positive returns over 1-, 2-, 3-, and 6-month timeframes after hitting the "death cross." Ryan Detrick The "golden cross" ñ a bullish trading signal generated when the 50-day moving average rises above the 200-day moving average ñ is actually a less successful predictor of positive gold returns, as the tables above show.
The guest on last night's Daily Show with Jon Stewart, Helaine Olen, was promoting her new book about the personal finance industry, "Pound Foolish." The book's tag line is, "Exposing the Dark Side of the Personal Finance Industry." It begins by going through the history of how Americans became hooked on investing as a way of making money, starting with the rise of IRAs (and fall of pensions) as worker compensation at the end of the 1970s. Olen's point is that we're not rewarding Americans enough for working for decades and saving their money responsibly, instead we're glorifying risk. On top of that, now there's a whole industry built around risking you money ó one that presents all sorts of so-called "answers." CNBC, the world's leading financial network, got a lot of flack in last night's interview, and it gets grilled even worse in the book for being an irresponsible cheerleader and promoter of all kinds of investment schemes. Here's what Olen says about the rise of CNBC on page 144 of her book: As for the now ubiquitous CNBC, its origins are in the second tier Los Angeles UHF television station KWHY. In the mid-1980s, it changed its name to the Financial News network and expanded its national presence via cable. In 1991 it merged with the two-year-old broadcast outlet CNBC. Longtime political campaign consultant Roger Ailes was soon brought in to glam up the place up...Breathless stock cheerleading became the order of the day when the dot-com boom commenced, with long legged, big lipped "money honey" Maria Bartiromo reporting from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange., frantically delivering up to the minute news releases from companies and analysts alike. Tough, and here's what Olen said in last night's interview (around 4:35): "... Bloomberg is running a more respectable operation, they're not even tracked by Nielsen ...CNBC is selling hope, they're selling 'we have the answers, follow us, we'll tell you the secrets.' What it doesn't seem to occur to anyone watching it is a couple hundred of thousands of people are watching the same thing at the same time. So even if it's accurate, which often it is not, they're not going to get in anything good. And then Stewart broke in: You know what they should call one of their shows? Pssttt Watch the video below:
www.flickr.comDrastic income inequality growth in the United States is largely derived from changes in the way the U.S. government taxes income from capital gains and dividends, according to a¬†new study by¬†Thomas Hungerford of the non-partisan Congressional Research Service. Essentially, what Democrats have been saying about income inequality ‚Äî that it's in a large part due to favorable taxation and deduction policies for high income Americans ‚Äî is largely right, and that has major implications for a possible sequestration fix.¬† The Hungerford study, in short, is a big get for the Left.¬† While this may sound like a bit of esoteric macro-econ, it's very relevant to the ongoing debate over the $1.2 trillion in across the board cuts that sequestration will bring about on March 1. During the debate over the sequester, Democrats and the Obama administration have repeatedly proposed closing loopholes in the tax code that disproportionally benefit the wealthy in lieu of drastic cuts to each and every sector of government. Republicans have continued to back the cuts, and have indicated that the only possible replacement they're comfortable with are cuts that are targeted rather than sweeping.¬† Here's where this study comes in. The study looked at recent data from 1991-2006 in an attempt to tease out why wealth inequality became so much more pronounced in the United States over that period. The Gini ratio measures the extent to which a country's income distribution deviates from a perfectly equal distribution, and serves as an indicator of the gap between the rich and the poor. Over time, the U.S. has seen the Gini ratio rise significantly: FRED It's become difficult to ascertain what the root cause of this rise in income inequality is. Republicans have argued that increased big government, taxation and regulations are keeping small business owners down, unable to ascend to a higher income bracket. They have proposed cutting the size of government to enable small business owners to flourish.¬† Democrats have argued that the income disparity comes from low wages and privileges granted to the wealthy when it comes to capital gains taxation rates and investment income. They have proposed increasing the minimum wage and raising the capital gains rate.¬† This study, then, is a relative win for the left. It conclusively found that the wealthy benefitted from low tax rates on investment income, which in turn caused their wealth to grow faster.¬† Essentially, taxing capital gains as ordinary income would make the playing field more fair, and reduce over time income inequality.¬† Even more, such a move would serve as a deficit reduction measure that could replace portions of the sequester. (h/t) Greg Sargent
Andrew Lee via U.S. Air ForceAutomatic budget cuts that could hit on Mar. 1 have top military†leadership scrambling, with Army General Ray Odierno warning that they will reduce the service to a "hollow Army." While the U.S. military could benefit from cutting some fat, the blunt and sudden terms of sequestration have the Pentagon in a panic. The cuts for 2013 total $85.4 billion, with $42.7 billion hitting defense spending, according to†The Washington Post.†The cuts will also affect communities and industries that support the military, demonstrating broader effects that the Army projects†will result in serious job losses†across the nation. Congress will have to reach a deal soon to avert the sequester, with Democrats looking for a mix of tax increases and spending cuts and Republicans seeking a different package of spending cuts.
Our friends over at Visual Capitalist put together an interesting infographic on all of the strange places miners are turning to explore as supply and demand constraints shape the market. A few of the places considered the "next frontier of mining" may surprise you: Visual Capitalist
Paul-W on flickrA hedge fund manager's proxy battle with the management of IGT, the world's largest casino gaming company, is shining a light on what's been going on inside the company. In case you missed it, Jason Ader a casino industry analyst turned hedge fund manager, owns a significant stake in IGT. He's been agitating to get three seats on the company's board replaced with his picks ‚Äî picks he says have more experience in the world of gaming. Since Ader made his intentions known in January, the company's stock is up 10%, and a who's who of Las Vegas gaming royalty has started picking sides. Steve Wynn, an IGT customer, is backing Ader. The former Governor of Nevada, Bob Miller, who also sits on IGT's and Wynn's boards, is siding with IGT. In the meantime, reports of IGT CEO Patti Hart's management style have made it beyond the Las Vegas press and into the mainstream media. Eric Jackson at Forbes pointed out an article in the Las Vegas Review Journal about the questions surrounding a $10 million acquisition IGT neglected to disclose during Hart's tenure (she's been CEO since 2009). The acquisition was handled by her husband's Silicon Valley investment bank. Issues like that get to the center of why Ader wants to see change on IGT's board. He says its stacked with friends of Hart's who aren't paying attention to the company's capital allocation. And what's worse, they don't know the gaming industry or Las Vegas. "To her credit she can be very charming ... very intelligent," a source close to the company told Business Insider. But employees have been frustrated by a feeling that while she is flying high, they are seeing cutbacks. According to one employee who spoke to Gambling911, even the coffee situation at IGT is making people anxious. ‚ÄúI recently read a magazine article in which my CEO, Patti Hart, was featured. The female journalist gushed about the wonderful IGT coffee maker around which Ms. Hart hangs. As a member of the non-executive team, I can‚Äôt recall seeing such a coffee maker in the break rooms or cafeteria. My break room‚Äôs coffee comes in liquid concentrate in frozen cartons. Patti's coffee is freshly ground. ‚ÄúThe coffee maker is a symbol of what is all wrong at IGT. It just shows how far removed Patti Hart is from daily life at IGT. Patti Hart once told her employees in a recorded video, ‚ÄòIt is too expensive and difficult to reclaim market share.‚Äô She also once remarked in an internal online Q &amp; A , ‚ÄòExecutives need business class travel, because when they arrive at a destination, they are expected to hit the ground running and be immediately productive‚Äô. What employees say is really hurting the company though, is that the creative game developers who are the hardest employees to find are also the one's leaving IGT for competitors. Take Joe Kaminkow for instance. He joined IGT in the late 1990s and when he left in January 2012, he was the company's vice president of game design. Kaminkow holds over 130 patents in the world of gaming and made it into the Pinball Hall Of Fame. He fully endorses the return of one of Ader's picks, former IGT CEO Chuck Mathewson's return to the company. Kaminkow pointed out that three of the top developers in the history IGT, himself included, have left the company in the last year as their non-compete clauses were up. Between them, the developers hold hundreds of patents and Hart "did nothing to stop" their exit. "Patti may win the war but at the end of the day she's lost the hearts and minds of the employees and she's not getting them back," Kaminkow told Business Insider. Top game developing talent ‚Äî which is a marriage of mathematical brilliance, creative spark, and a knowledge of what makes gamblers tick ‚Äî takes years to develop. What that means is for the past year IGT's games have suffered, and industry folk say this year's crop of games aren't as good as the last. Still, the company has scored some big one-time deals in Canada and Illinois that should help them through 2013. That has led employees inside the firm to think of 2014 as the company's own 'fiscal cliff.' IGT has yet to respond to repeated requests for comment. Hart has blocked Ader's website about the proxy battle, rescueigt.com, for employees. "They (employees) feel like a child with an alcoholic parent. They never know when they're going to get beaten or hugged," said a source who requested not to be identified. They'll know more on March 5th. That's when IGT shareholders will get to vote on who joins/remains on the board. Before that, ISS, an advisory board for mutual funds, recommended that the shareholders appoint one of Ader's nominees to the board ‚Äî Daniel Silvers, President and managing member of Ader's hedge fund. At the same time, however, it also recommended that shareholders "vote gold", which is Ader's plan for the company. ‚ÄúIn the company‚Äôs continuing difficulties in redressing the weakness of its core business segments, the uncertainty about the potential of the online diversification efforts, and the sustained shareholder doubt reflected in IGT‚Äôs persistent stock underperformance, the dissidents have demonstrated a compelling case for a greater shareholder perspective on the board," said ISS. This is an important decision to watch, as shareholders tend to vote with ISS recommendations, according to academic research from Wake Forest and Vanderbilt.  It's a confusing finding, and¬† that lack of clarity may not make the Vegas powers-that-be happy though (it certainly doesn't make IGT happy). Steve Wynn was pushing for his friend Mathewson to join the board. Let's see if Wynn is willing to take that loss.
Europe sold off hard today. And Italy got hit the worst, closing down 3.1 percent. Earlier today, PMI reports revealed that Europe's services and manufacturing industries were in worse shape than most expected. Italy will be holding elections in a few days, which adds a layer of political uncertainty to the markets. Here's an intraday chart of Italy's FTSE MIB index via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
The U.S. Supreme Court is going to hear a campaign finance case that could do away with the contribution limits that limit rich people's influence over politics. Currently, federal law only lets individuals give $2,600 to any one candidate during a single election. On top of that limit, people can only give $123,000 to candidates, political action committees, and parties over a two-year period.¬† Shaun McCutcheon, an Alabama Republican, is only challenging aggregate, two-year caps on direct donations to parties or candidates. But this case could jeopardize¬†all¬†campaign finance limits ‚Äì including the $2,600 cap on contributions to individual candidates, according to one election law expert. "I suppose the worst-case scenario is that ... the court goes past the questions presented and tackles a more fundamental question ‚Äì in this case, the Constitutionality of contribution limits," Columbia Law School professor Richard Briffault told BI in an email message. "Justices Scalia and Thomas have expressed the view that contribution limits are unconstitutional, and Justice Kennedy has expressed some discomfort with them," he added. Kennedy's reluctance to support campaign finance limits could be good news for McCutcheon, since that justice is a swing voter who usually sides with the majority (with the huge exception of Obamacare). Slate's David Weigel still seemed skeptical that McCutcheon's crusade against aggregate limits could let billionaires buy elections "more than they currently do." He pointed out that appeals court judge Janice Rogers Brown, a libertarian, wrote the opinion that shot McCutcheon down and spurred him to go to the nation's highest court. "Even she decided that 'the aggregate limits are justified,'" Weigel writes. If the high court sides with McCutcheon, it would also have to reverse its 1976 opinion in Buckley v. Valeo, which limited campaign contributions. But, as SCOTUSBlog points out, the Supreme Court's campaign finance opinions aren't written in stone.¬† "The current Supreme Court has shown in recent years that it is not averse to the idea of reconsidering some of its most important rulings on campaign finance, as it did rather spectacularly in 2010, when it issued the hotly controversial decision in Citizens United v. FEC," SCOTUSBlog's Lyle Denniston points out. The Supreme Court found in Citizens United that corporations can spend as much as they want on political campaigns as long as they didn't give money directly to candidates. In the McCutcheon case, the Supreme Court probably won't¬†take the radical step of declaring all limits on campaign contributions unconstitutional, according to Briffault, the Columbia law professor. But the case will give the court its first chance to loosen the limits since 2010. Elected officials, and those who fund their campaigns, will likely be watching very closely. ¬†
AP/Andrew MedichiniSilvio Berlusconi appears to be in clear 2nd place for this weekend's Italian election. But it's close. And it appears he's attempting what could be a legendary dirty trick. To back up a moment... in his attempt to hit deficit goals, Prime Minister Mario Monti instituted a modest property tax called the IMU. The whole tax only raised about $4 billion last year, but as a show of Italy's attempt to be on board with the rest of Europe's plans to trim deficits, it served a purpose of signaling to the ECB and Germany and other peers that they were "reforming." But of course everyone hates taxes. And earlier in the campaign, Silvio Berlusconi promised to set up a fund that would refund the entire IMU. This would be a big setback if you think the country's problem is credibility, which many people blame for its persistently high borrowing costs. But now Berlusconi has taken the promise one step further. According to reports, he's sent out a letter promising a tax refund if he wins, and it's written in such a way that people are lining up NOW at the post office to get the refund forms, even though obviously no such forms exist. Another report implies it's written in such a way that says you have to have voted for Berlusconi to even be eligible. Berlusconi is clearly behind, but he's making people very nervous. We'll know soon the impact of a mass mailing like this.
Bloomberg via YouTubeStocks tumbled yesterday after the FOMC minutes showed that many Fed officials wanted to reduce or end QE sooner than expected.¬† The Dow tumbled 108 points, and today stocks and commodities are down again. In his latest "Gartman Letter,"¬†Dennis Gartman writes that he has made "material changes to [his] position across the board" because of the shift in "tectonic plates" in "all of the capital markets yesterday". Here are some excerpts: "When tectonic plates in the earth‚Äôs crust shift earthquakes happen and when the tectonic plants shift beneath our feet in the capital markets margin calls take place. The tectonic plates have shifted and attention... very careful and very substantive attention...must be paid. "Simply put, the game has changed and where we were playing a 'game' fueled by the monetary authorities and fueled by the urge on the part of participants to see and believe in rising 'animal spirits' as Lord Keynes referred to them we played bullishly of equities and of the EUR and of 'risk assets'. Now, with the game changing, our tools have to change and so too our perspective. "Where we were buyers of equities previously we must disdain them henceforth. Where we were sellers of Yen and US dollars we must buy them now. Where we had been long of gold in Yen terms, we must shift that and turn bullish of gold in EUR terms. Where we might have been 'technically' bullish of the EUR we must now be technically and fundamentally bearish of it. The game board has been flipped over; the game has changed... change with it or perish. We cannot be more blunt than that." Further down the note he writes that the stock market has ended its bull run and that both the indices and individual stocks reversed: "We have been openly bullish of equities unerringly since late last year and became even more so on the first day of this year when the indices all 'gapped' higher on huge volume. We had no choice but to be bullish; the markets were powering higher and they had the fuel from the monetary authorities to do so.¬† "Now, however, that fuel is thought to be pushed a bit away; the "punch bowl" has been moved nearly out of reach and that alone would be sufficient to force us to change our bullish posture. But with the technical in the markets breaking down as badly as they have we've no choice but to exit any and all bullish constructed positions and rush to the sidelines." Gartman also exited all his stock positions in August 2012.
There's a "silent killer" that became evident in Wal-Mart's earnings announcement today. "The results announced today are flat-out bad, and its time for shareholders to take management to task for this," said Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Research.† The biggest problem, according to Sozzi? Sam's Club.† "Samís Club now becoming a silent killer to Wal-Martís consolidated financials," Sozzi told us. "This comes even as the company has stepped up its price investments." The buy-in-bulk chain has more than 600 stores in the U.S. While it's grown rapidly in recent years, Sam's Club has still lagged behind competitor Costco.† Wal-Mart's buy-in-bulk chain expects little growth in sales this quarter compared to this time last year, CEO Rosalind Brewer said in the company's earnings release. †That compares with a robust 5.3 percent growth last year.† In November, Sam's Club reported that its traffic had slowed down and that when people were buying stuff, they were trading down. Brewer blames the "mounting economic concerns" for the slow-down in growth for Sam's Club's current woes. In a series of leaked emails, Wal-Mart also blamed the economy for the worst start to a sales month in seven years.† Sam's Club relies on businesses for more of its sales. Its members are generally higher-income than Wal-Mart's. "Like†Walmart†U.S., our members are pressured by higher payroll income taxes, ongoing unemployment and higher gas prices," Brewer says in the release.† The expiration of the payroll tax means that Americans began paying 2 percent more in Social Security taxes on their first $113,700 in wages, reports Renee Dudley at Bloomberg. That's $60 a month for someone making $40,000 a year.† The slow-down at Sam's Club is concerning because it shows that businesses and higher-income consumers are just as wary as Walmart's core customers.†
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderThe hedge fund industry is full of some of the brightest people in the world who are immensely successful in trading and investing.¬† While they can definitely offer some valuable advice about investing, they are also full of bits of wisdom about life in general. ¬† ¬† We've included a round up of life lessons, principles and advice from a few of the brightest fund managers out there.¬†
GettyPresident Barack Obama's approval rating has hit a three-plus-year high, while the approval rating of Congressional Republicans has sunk to a corresponding low, according to a new poll from Bloomberg.¬† The poll shows that Obama's approval rating has jumped to 55 percent, its highest point since September 2009 in Bloomberg's tracking. Meanwhile, only 35 percent of Americans hold a favorable view of Congressional Republicans, the lowest since September 2009. Meanwhile, a new Pew Research Center poll¬†finds similar numbers ‚Äî Obama's approval rating sits at 51 percent, while only 25 percent of respondents approved of Congressional Republicans. The polls come just more than a week before a series of cuts known as the sequester are set to begin kicking in. Obama and Republicans have spent the early part of the week battling over the cuts, as each side attempts to swing public opinion to its side before the cuts take effect. These two surveys foreshadowed that Republicans will be to blame if the sequester goes into effect.  Here are some numbers from both polls that show why: The Pew poll finds that across party lines, a vast majority of Americans ‚Äî 70 percent ‚Äî want Congress to pass major legislation to reduce the budget deficit.
Dave Gates via FlickrWe just saw January existing home sales come in better than expectations. But the one key detail was the rise in home prices. The national median existing-home price for all housing types was $173,600 in January, up 12.3 percent from a year ago, according to NAR. Existing home prices continued to rise for the eleventh straight month. This is also the biggest gain since November 2005 when home prices were up 12.9 percent. A breakdown by region shows median existing home prices surged the most the in West, up 26.6 percent year-over-year in January, to $239,800. But existing home sales in the region were down the most, falling 5.7 percent to a pace of 1.15 million. In the Midwest median home prices were up 8.6 percent from a year ago to $131,800. In the South they were up 13.4 percent year-over-year to $152,100, and in the West they surge The Northeast continued to be the region with the slowest recovery in home prices, with median existing home prices rising 2.4 percent from a year ago to $230,500. The Northeast did however see that biggest increase in existing home sales, up 4.8 percent to an annual rate of 650K. 
Frontpage / Shutterstock.comLast week, emails leaked from Wal-Mart's executive offices that suggested recent sales levels were a "total disaster." But as Wal-Mart explained in its earnings announcement today, much of the weakness in sales are attributable to delayed income tax refunds, a problem that will go away. Indeed, nothing seems to be able to slow this global retail powerhouse. Walmart has come a long way since Sam Walton opened the first discount store in Rogers, Arkansas†50 years ago. †
Niccolo Caranti Today I had the chance to talk to three very high-level financial professionals about the upcoming Italian election, which takes place this upcoming Sunday and Monday. They were nervous. Italy has made a lot of progress reducing its borrowing costs, ever since Mario Monti came into power in late 2011. But while borrowing costs have come down, the economy has not picked up, and that's created a backlash. What you have is a battle between the candidates of "credibility" (like Mario Monti) and the populist candidates, like Silvio Berlusconi, and Beppe Grillo. And though Silvio Berlusconi is a cause for consternation, it was Beppe Grillo that made them appear physically sick to their stomach. Grillo -- who is a comedian and the head of his own Five Star Party -- offers up ideas that the less-off in the public like, but which sophisticated people know are bunk. Italy has too much debt? Just don't pay it! Oh and everyone gets a free iPad with free internet (Seriously). JPMorgan has a note out today titled A Crash Course In Grillonomics, which likes the Grillo movement to SYRIZA in Greece. SYRIZA is the left-wing party that came in a narrow second in last year's elections. And though SYRIZA is more clearly left wing, both parties have thrived by promising to do the impossible and stick it to the man (although SYRIZA is pro-Euro, whereas Grillo is not). This table put together by JPM has a nice outline of Grillonomics. JPMorgan
Denis Sinyakov / ReutersMOSCOW (Reuters) - A controversial economist and former presidential candidate who accuses the West of conspiring to turn Russia into an economic colony has emerged, sources said, as a leading contender to take charge at the country's central bank. Sergei Glazyev, a Kremlin economic adviser, is being linked to the post a month before a deadline for his boss Vladimir Putin to nominate a successor to Sergei Ignatyev, who retires on June 23 after 11 years in the job. Some insiders have been quick to write off Glazyev, who during his presidential run in 2004 lambasted Putin for running "a corrupt and irresponsible regime". Yet the speed with which Glazyev's star has risen since he endorsed the Russian leader's bid for a third Kremlin term a year ago has caught attention. One high-ranking source in Moscow's liberal economic establishment said Glazyev is viewed favorably by both Putin and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev. A second source confirmed his status as a candidate and a third said he might get the job. Putin's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, declined to comment on the central bank succession. Glazyev, appointed by Putin last July to advise on regional economic integration, was not available to comment on Thursday, an aide said. "Glazyev is under consideration because the others ... do not suit either Putin or Medvedev at all," the first source told Reuters, speaking on condition of anonymity. Economists still lean towards the view that Putin will plump for an insider, like Ignatyev's deputy Alexei Ulyukayev, to complete the central bank's shift to a policy framework based on Western-style inflation targeting. "I would find it difficult to believe in a volte face," said Jacob Nell, a Russia economist at Morgan Stanley in Moscow. "It wouldn't be consistent with how Putin has behaved in the past on economic policy." CIRCLING THE WAGONS Yet the liberals, who have controlled the Finance Ministry and the Bank of Russia since Putin rose to power, are concerned that radical change could endanger Russia's $2.1 trillion economy and the management of the world's fourth-largest foreign reserves. They have collectively recoiled at the unorthodox views of Glazyev, 53, who was tasked by Putin last month with coordinating a new strategy to stabilize Russia's economy if the world slides back into crisis. In a preliminary report to Putin, cited by the Vedomosti daily on January 18, Glazyev wrote: "As a result of the growing issuance of global currencies, the threat arises that Russian assets can be taken over by foreign capital." Those comments drew a prompt and withering response from Anatoly Chubais, a leading market reformer who worked in government with Glazyev 20 years ago and now heads Russia's state technology fund Rosnano. "A person who argues in all seriousness that the United States and Europe are issuing money so that they can grab Russian assets on the cheap can be anyone, as long as he is healthy; just not an economist," Chubais deadpanned on his blog. LOSING MOMENTUM Russia's leaders have expressed increasing concern that the central bank has focused too much on bringing down inflation, to the detriment of growth that slowed last year to 3.4 percent - its lowest since the 2009 slump. Putin, at a major Kremlin policy meeting at the end of January, complained about high borrowing costs, but Ignatyev held firm, saying that interest rates should only fall as inflation falls. The institutional stand-off intensified on Wednesday, when Ignatyev went public with claims that $49 billion - or 2.5 percent of the national income - was illegally transferred out of the country last year. Ignatyev said that "one well-organized group" was responsible for more than half of the outflows, in what analysts said was a coded accusation that the Russian security services were complicit. Ulyukayev, the central bank's first deputy chairman, agrees with Ignatyev that the economy is running close to capacity and has pushed back against easing policy until inflation falls. Other contenders, central banker Sergei Shvetsov - in charge of market operations - and former Finance Minister Mikhail Zadornov, now head of state bank VTB'sretail arm, share similar orthodox views. Also in the frame, but regarded as long shots, are VTB CEO Andrei Kostin and Andrei Bugrov, a former financial diplomat who now holds a senior position at billionaire Vladimir Potanin's investment company Interros. PROMISES, PROMISES Of all the candidates, Glazyev has been the readiest to say that the Kremlin's call to boost economic growth rates to 5 percent or more are realistic - and even to suggest that they lack ambition. In his January article, Glazyev wrote that Russia could boost growth to a rate of 8 percent, while industrial production could surge by 10 percent per year. Such views would get a favorable hearing from the pro-Kremlin majority in parliament's lower house, who would need to ratify Putin's choice. Ignatyev's hawkish inflation stance drew hostile questions when he testified to lawmakers on Wednesday. Alexei Kudrin, a former finance minister respected by financial markets, has meanwhile ruled himself out of contention after turning down the central bank job following his resignation from government in September 2011, sources say. (Additional reporting by Polina Devitt and Katya Golubkova; Writing by Douglas Busvine; Editing by Hugh Lawson) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
UPDATE: The latest Philly Fed Business Outlook Survey is out. The headline index unexpectedly fell to -12.5 from last month's -5.8 reading. Economists were looking for the index to rise to 1. Click here to refresh for updates &gt; The drop was led by declines in new orders, unfilled orders, and inventories. According to the release, though, the data are a bit more mixed than the headline index reading suggests. Employment was one bright spot: The survey‚Äôs broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index of current activity, decreased from a reading -5.8 in January to -12.5 this month (see Chart).* The demand for manufactured goods also showed slight declines this month: The new orders index declined from a reading of -4.3 in January to -7.8 in February. Despite negative readings for general activity and new orders, the shipments index showed improvement: The index remained positive and edged slightly higher to 2.4. The percentage of firms reporting increased shipments (25 percent) was slightly greater than the percentage reporting declines (22 percent). Labor market conditions showed signs of stabilizing this month. The employment index increased from -5.2 in January to 0.9 this month, its first positive reading in eight months. The percentage of firms reporting employment increases (15 percent) narrowly exceeded the percentage reporting decreases (14 percent). Furthermore, expectations for future activity improved, and respondents to the survey don't expect these declines to last: The survey‚Äôs future indicators suggest that firms expect recent declines to be temporary. The future general activity index increased from a reading of 29.2 to 32.1, its third consecutive monthly increase (see Chart). The percentage expecting increases in activity over the next six months (47 percent) exceeded the percentage expecting decreases (15 percent). The indexes for future new orders and shipments showed a mixed pattern this month. The future new orders index increased 6 points, while the future shipments index fell 9 points. The future employment index improved modestly, increasing from 10.7 to 14.9. Twenty-five percent of firms expect to increase employment over the next six months; 10 percent expect to decrease it. In special questions this month, firms were asked about their expectations for production growth for the first quarter (see Special Questions). Nearly 54 percent of the firms expect increases in production in the first quarter; 25 percent expect decreases. Nearly 47 percent of the firms said first quarter production growth would represent an acceleration in growth (only 9 percent characterized it as "significant acceleration"; 38 percent said the expected growth represented "some acceleration"). Below is a breakdown of the sub-components of the index (click to enlarge): Philadelphia Fed Click here for the full release &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from the release of the February¬†Philly Fed Business Outlook Survey, due out at 10 AM ET. Economists expect the headline index to increase to 1. Last month, the index contracted sharply to -5.8 on broad-based weakness from a prior reading of 4.6. Economists were expecting it to rise to 5.6. We will have the full release LIVE at 10 AM ET. Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesJanuary existing home sales were up 0.4 percent to an annual rate of 4.92 million units. This beat expectations of a 0.8 percent decline to 4.90 million unit. December's existing home sales were revised down to 4.90 million rate. "Buyer traffic is continuing to pick up, while seller traffic is holding steady," said Lawrence Yun chief economist at the National Association of Realtors (NAR) in a press release. "In fact, buyer traffic is 40 percent above a year ago, so there is plenty of demand but insufficient inventory to improve sales more strongly. We've transitioned into a seller's market in much of the country." Total housing inventory at the end of January declined 4.9 percent to 1.74 million existing homes available for sale, which means it would take 4.2 months to sell inventory at the current sales pace. The national median existing-home price for all housing types was $173,600 in January, up 12.3 percent from a year ago, which is the 11th consecutive month of year-over-year price increases. This is also the biggest gain since November 2005 when home prices were up 12.9 percent. What's more the median time that homes spent on the market was 71 days, down from 73 in December and 28.3 percent lower than 99 days a year ago.  Moreover, distressed homes accounted for 23 percent of sales in January, down from 24 percent the previous month. A breakdown by region showed that existing home sales grew everywhere but the west where they fell 5.7 percent to a pace of 1.15 million.  The National Association of Realtors (NAR) measure of resales includes previously constructed homes, condominium, and co-ops in which a sale closed during the month. Existing home sales account for a larger share of the market than new homes, according to Bloomberg. And existing and new home sales began to pick up in 2012 but the latter has increased at a slower pace.
After taking a cursory look at the recent 13-Fs filed by hedge funds, it became apparent that hedge funds were scaling back their exposures to gold.¬† George Soros was among the big names that unloaded his position. According to Goldman Sachs' new Hedge Fund Trend Monitor report, hedge funds in aggregate scaled back big time. Despite low turnover, hedge funds notably reduced holdings of underperforming long-time favorites Apple and gold while raising allocations to rallying Financials. For the first time in three years AAPL was not the top stock in our VIP list, instead ranking as the third most frequent top-10 holding. The stock fell 20% in 4Q and funds reduced positions by over 30%. Holdings in GLD were also lower than they have been in at least four years, equaling just 0.6% of long positions as the ETF fell 6% in price... Goldman Sachs
YouTrend.itItaly goes to the polls this Sunday and Monday to elect a new parliament and Prime Minister. As in some other countries, Italy goes into a polling blackout for two weeks leading up to the election. However, there are still "private" polls that get conducted because obviously politicians and and bankers and other business people don't want to be in the dark this whole time. And the polls do get talked about and even leaked. One site, YouTrend.it, has found a particularly hilarious way of reporting the private polling data. Check out this article, whose English title is: Voices from the Conclave: new data on the papal Room. At first blush, the article appears to be about the election for the next Pope, although of course that hasn't begun. And then you get a paragraph like this, talking about the frontrunners (via Google translate): In head would always be a good-natured Cardinal Piacenza , strong support from 34-35 cardinals, even if the most feared among his opponents, the ' indomitable peeled prelate of Monza and Brianza , it would be up and would reach the psychological threshold of 30 votes in the conclave. Good natured Cardinal Piacenza? That's code for front runner Pier Luigi Bersani. The "indomitable peeled prelate of Monza and Brianaza"? Take a guess. It's Berlusconi. And then her's how the next two candidates are identified: Out of the two main poles is very strong the hilarious chamberlain of Genoa , that consensus of well 17 cardinals, pulling the troops of the line that leads from the sober and rigorous Cardinal Milan already apostolic nuncio in Brussels , stopped at 10-11 Cardinals ( of these, eight are directly supporting him and 2 prefer the grizzled and devoted Archbishop of Bologna ) Strong and hilarious chamberlain of Genoa? That's of course Beppe Grillo, the comedian, anti-Euro populist. And the "sober and rigorous Cardinal Milan" the ultra boring Mario Monti, who is a friend of the bankers. Read the whole article on the "papal voting" here &gt;
Darren McCollester/Getty ImagesMore than 290 million people visited theme parks in the U.S. in 2010, enjoying 1.7 billion rides. For all the fear associated with those rides, theme parks are extremely safe. According to the National Safety Council's survey of conditions at parks, only 1,299 of those 290 million suffered injuries. That includes mild injuries like twisted ankles and scraped knees,†Bill Powers of the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions says. Unfortunately, a few incidents have proven fatal over the years, for a variety of reasons. Nevertheless, visitors keep coming back.†  On Wednesday, Six Flags reported fourth-quarter earnings of $2.60 per share and $143.9 million in sales, well above analysts' consensus estimates for a loss of $0.99 per share and $135.2 million in sales. The stock jumped 5 percent on the day. In light of the news, we take a look at some of the worst accidents to take place at Six Flags over the years. Note: Eric Platt contributed to this feature.
UPDATE: Markit's preliminary PMI estimate for February is out. The index fell to 55.2 from last month's 55.8 reading. Economists predicted a smaller drop to 55.5. Any reading over 50 indicates expansion, so today's release indicates a slowing pace of expansion. One sub-component, however ‚Äì new export orders ‚Äì dipped into contractionary territory. Click here to refresh for updates &gt; Below is a breakdown of the various sub-components of the index: Markit Click here for the full release &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from the release of Markit's flash U.S. PMI index reading for February, due out at 8:58 AM ET. Economists expect the index to moderate to 55.5 from last month's 55.8 reading. We will have the full release LIVE at 8:58 AM ET. Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
The recent plunge in the price of gold happened despite a bullish Valentine‚Äôs Day press release just last week from the World Gold Council, the London-based industry group. It reported that central banks boosted gold purchases by 29% to 145 metric tons in Q4-2012, an eighth successive quarter of net buying. In the full year, the central bank bought 534.6 tons of the precious metal--the most since 1964, when Goldfinger plotted to nuke Fort Knox! On the other hand, demand for gold in India was down 12% last year and flat in China. ETF demand rose 51% last year, but was down 16% q/q during Q4-2012, as many hedge funds bailed out. Other than profit-taking, what might be the fundamental reasons behind gold‚Äôs weakness? Perhaps the most important reason for the weakness in gold is that after three years of ‚Äúliving dangerously‚Äù--with lots of panics about apocalyptic endgame scenarios--the global economic and financial outlook is improving. That means that central banks may start to ease off on easing. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Goldfinger. (1) Attacking Fort Knox. (2) Gold was a great buy. (3) Central banks hoarding gold. (4) Bulls on the run. (5) Not enough fear for gold. (6) Easing off easing. (7) Draghi‚Äôs immaculate intervention has been a drag for gold. (8) Abe talks down the yen. (9) QE has lost its punch. (10) The debate has started at the Fed. (11) Gold and TIPS. (More for subscribers.)

UPDATE: Weekly jobless claims data are out. Initial claims rose to 362,000, above estimates of a rise to 355,000 from the previous week's 341,000 new filings. Continuing claims rose to 3.148 million, just below estimates for a rise to 3.15 million from 3.114 million in the previous week. Bloomberg reports that four states had to estimate claims, due to the holiday-shortened week. Click here to refresh for updates &gt; Below are states that observed notable increases or decreases in initial claims: DoL Click here for the full release &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from the release of weekly jobless claims data, due out at 8:30 AM ET. Economists estimate that initial claims rose to 355,000 in the week ended February 16, up from 341,000 new filings the week before. Continuing claims are estimated to have risen to 3.15 million from 3.11 million in the previous week. We will have the release LIVE at 8:30 AM ET. Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesHeadline consumer prices were flat in January, against expectations for a 0.1 percent month-over-month (MoM). Core CPI i.e. consumer prices ex-food and energy were up 0.3 percent, above expectations of a 0.2 percent MoM rise. The energy index fell 1.7 percent in January and the food index was unchanged, after rising 0.2 percent every month for the last three months. From the BLS press release: "Increases in the indexes for shelter and apparel accounted for much of the increase in the index for all items less food and energy, with advances in the indexes for recreation, medical care, and airline fares also contributing. "The index for all items less food and energy increased 1.9 percent for the 12 months ending January. Airline fare (3.8 percent), medical care (3.1 percent), shelter (2.2 percent), and apparel (2.1 percent) were among the indexes that rose more quickly." Investors watch this number because it is a monthly indicator of inflation and gives us insight into the cost of living. The Fed's preferred measure of inflation however is the personal consumption price index because it reflects what consumers are purchasing, according to Bloomberg. Click here for the entire release &gt;
APOn Friday, Bloomberg News reported on leaked emails that were circulating among Wal-Mart executives, describing February sales figures as a "total disaster," off to the slowest start in at least 7 years. In one of the emails ñ dating to the first week in February ñ an executive wrote, "Where are all the customers? And whereís their money?" The executives attributed the sales woes to a weakened consumer, suffering from payroll tax hikes that went into effect January 1. Today, however ñ three weeks into February ñ the company has a better perspective on this month's sales figures. In today's release, Wal-Mart says the slow February start was actually largely due to delayed tax refunds, which got mailed out late this year due to the fiscal cliff. If Wal-Mart is right ñ and they have reason to believe they are ñ then worries about the strength of the consumer may be overblown. That's not to say that rising gas prices and the payroll tax hike can't or won't have an effect. In fact, they could still represent serious headwinds. "We continue to monitor economic conditions that can impact our sales, such as rising fuel prices, changes in inflation and the payroll tax increase," the company says in the release. However, up to this point, almost two months into 2013, Wal-Mart doesn't attribute sales weakness to those factors. The "total disaster" appears to have been overstated. Click here for details on Wal-Mart's earnings announcement &gt;
Joe Weisenthal, Business InsiderSo it didn't take too long being in Milan before I realized why the city is known as one of the style capitals of the world. After a meeting with some bankers, I asked where I might find a good place to do some work with free WiFi. I was told to make a few turns out the door and check out the cafe at Trussardi Life. Turns out, that that cafe is an appendage to a boutique for the age-old Italian luxury brand Trussardi. It was by far the most hip experience I've ever had getting free wifi. Even getting the password to the wifi was cool.
Jacob Andrzejczak/Getty Images for Sports IllustratedGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Oscar Pistorius's bail hearing is underway again, and his attorney is once again shredding the prosecutors' credibility and creating doubt about their version of events. Pistorius shot and killed his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in his bathroom. Prosecutors initially charged him with murder, and then upgraded the charge to "premeditated murder." Pistorius says the shooting was an accident--that he thought his girlfriend was an intruder. Pistorius's version of events is highly implausible. He basically says he woke up in the middle of the night, heard a noise in the bathroom, panicked, and started shooting. Given that Steenkamp was supposedly sleeping next to him in bed, this seems preposterous. Even if the room was dark, Pistorius wouldn't check the bed before shooting bullets at a noise in the bathroom? He wouldn't yell to the "intruder" in the bathroom to make sure it was an intruder? That just doesn't make sense. And it makes even less sense when you factor in witness statements that the lights were on in Pistorius's house and there had been audible sounds of "non-stop fighting" for an hour before the shooting. That said, the prosecutors appear to have bungled several aspects of the case already, enough to allow Pistorius's attorney to hurt their credibility. Yesterday in the bail hearing, for example, Pistorius's attorney got the police investigator to admit the following: And then, today, it was revealed that the lead investigator in the case has himself been charged with "attempted murder" for shooting someone in an earlier police incident. So the prosecution's credibility and case has been significantly damaged. According to a reporter in the courtroom, Barry Bateman of Pretoria's Eyewitness News, it would still be a crime in South Africa for Pistorius to shoot an intruder: You can't just blow away someone who enters your house. The crime would be "culpable homicide" and it could carry a prison sentence. But accidental homicide is obviously a far less serious crime than premeditated murder. The bail hearing is continuing today in court. And at least in the early going, Pistorius's lawyer is doing even more damage to the prosecution's case. Barry Bateman is live in the courtroom following the case. You can follow his tweets here. You can also click here for the latest. Below are Bateman's tweets from the beginning of the bail hearing, which began at 11AM South Africa time.† To read them chronologically, please scroll down to the bottom and read up. Then click here for the latest. #OscarPistorius Roux: we've raised our concern that the IO maintained Oscar was a flight risk even after his concessions. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the IO testimony was designed to bolster the state's case. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the IO admitted that he knew of no phone call that could have formed part of a pre-planned offence. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the IO, at all costs, adheres to evidence which serves to persuade the court not to grant bail. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the IO was not a credible witness. We cannot sit back and take comfort that he is telling the full truth. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the IO then introduces the evidence of the woman who heard screaming and the shots - a vague piece of evidence. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the witness statement does not fit in with the applicant's version. BB #OscarPistorius Nair don't you think a heated argument with the sliding door open could be heard at some distance? Roux: What distance? BB #OscarPistorius Roux: saying that the statement was not from a neighbour, but someone wholives far away. BB #OscarPistorius Roux onto the witness statements claiming she heard screaming the hour before the shooting. BB #OscarPistorius Nair questions the possibility that the urine was released as a result of the trauma. Roux: it's a possibility. BB #OscarPistorius Nair couldn't Reeva have emptied her bladder an hour before the shooting? Roux: there was NO urine in it. BB #OscarPistorius Nair: could Reeva have just asked "what wrong"? Roux: ... and announce herself in the face of imminant danger? BB #OscarPistorius after being questioned by Nair, Nel says he disagrees with Roux's claim that the IO admiited her was wrong. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the IO admitted he was wrong in his testimony about the distance the shots were fired. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the IO conceded that the trajectory of the shots is consistant with Oscar's version. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: there may have been an argument between Oscar and Reeva earlier in the evening, but witnesses can't confirm. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: why would a burglar lock himself in the toilet? He didn't know the door was locked. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the moving of the body downstairs shows positive steps to save her life - he was desperateto save her. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: ... the IO conceded that if Oscar shouted there was na burglar in the house she would have locked herself in. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the state relies on the point that the door was broken down from the outside to show this was premed... BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the state's claim that the applicant lived in a secure estate has no value - violent crime in esates is well known. BB #OscarPistorius Roux continues his closing argument. BB #OscarPistorius and we adjourn for about 30 minutes. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the IO testified that Oscar's version is consistent with the known evidence, and he couldn't refute his version. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: Reeva's empty bladder explains her presence in the toilet. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: thje applicant didn't need the locked toilet to kill Reeva, he could have done it in the bathroom. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the preamble to the charge sheet lacks any substance to lead to the charge of murder. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: in the charge sheet it simply states murder, not premeditated murder. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: what is significant, is what the state does not say... BB #OscarPistorius Roux: going over the allegations the state has relied on to show the murder was premeditated... BB #OscarPistorius Roux: citing case law where the requirement of exceptional circumstances was inappropriate. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the poor quality of the evidence presented by the IO is evident of abuse of the Schedule 6 provisions. BB #OscarPistorius Roux: the state had access to the available evidence, they should have known it fell far short of showing premed murder. BB #OscarPistorius Roux we submit that the evidence doesn't even show the applicant committed a murder. BB #OscarPistorius Roux we submit that the evidence shows that this was not premeditated, we request this not be schedule six. BB #OscarPistorius Roux on the Criminal Procedures Act, premeditation and schedule six... BB
Flickr / HourmanWal-Mart's fourth-quarter earnings announcement was just released. In the announcement, the company addressed the emails circulated among executives that leaked on Friday, describing February sales figures as a "total disaster," and citing the effects of the payroll tax hike as the main culprit. However, a few analysts and economists pointed out that it could be due to a delay in tax refunds this year that were pushed back because of changes to laws that were part of the fiscal cliff. The implication was that consumers were waiting to get their tax refunds before buying that new flat-screen TV, so Wal-Mart's sales started slower than expected this month. In the release, Wal-Mart admitted that delayed tax refunds seem to be the primary driver, contrary to what was said in the leaked emails (emphasis added): "We are confident that our low prices will continue to resonate, as families adjust to a reduced paycheck and increased gas prices," Simon said. "We see the underlying health of the¬†Walmart¬†U.S. business is sound, and sales trends are similar to what we've demonstrated in the last few quarters. However, February sales started slower than planned, due in large part, to the delay in income tax refunds. We began seeing increased tax refund check activity late last week in our stores, resulting in a more normalized weekly sales pattern for this time of the year. Due to the slower sales rate in the first few weeks of this year's first quarter, we are forecasting comp sales for the 13-week period from Jan. 26 to Apr. 26, 2013 to be around flat. We continue to monitor economic conditions that can impact our sales, such as rising fuel prices, changes in inflation and the payroll tax increase. Click here for more from Wal-Mart's release &gt;
Ruth Peterkin / Shutterstock.comThe Cayman Islands has seen a rise in foreign workers despite increasing levies they pay and announcing plans to lift the lid on the tax haven. The British overseas territory saw its number of foreign workers increase from 19,927 at the end of 2011 to hit almost 21,000 by December 2012, according to the latest figures. The higher numbers are mainly due to the relaxation of immigration laws which included new five and 10-year work permits for those working in the reinsurance industry. The Cayman Islands‚Äô government has also started offering work permits for foreigners investing in its property sector. These measures have more than helped counteract any expected fall in foreign workers due to a hike in work permit fees. Last July, the then Cayman Islands premier McKeeva Bush announced controversial plans for a tax on expats‚Äô salaries. But this was scrapped for fear of scaring off investors and workers, so work permit fees were increased as a consolation. The rising foreign worker numbers also come at the same times as the Cayman Islands slowly lifts its cloak of secrecy which could result in billions of pounds leaving the territory. The Cayman Islands have long been seen as a tax haven for the wealthy and secretive thanks to its light money laundering and disclosure rules. Monies held there also enjoy freedom from income tax, along with capital gains and corporation tax. But pressure is mounting on the world‚Äôs fifth largest financial centre to be more transparent and open about investors‚Äô cash to bring it in line with the likes of London, Switzerland and the Channel Islands, which have all introduced greater accountability. In response the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority is introducing reforms that will make public the names of thousands of companies and their directors that have previously remained secret. The territory is home to thousands of trust companies, countless financial vehicles along with most of the world‚Äôs hedge funds. One British expat, who has recently left the Cayman Islands, said: ‚ÄúA lot of the pressure for more transparency is coming from investors who want greater control over their money along with knowing where it is being invested. ‚ÄúThe Cayman Islands has a very strong reputation as the ultimate tax haven so this could harm the financial industry quite badly. The dilemma for these funds is where to move their money to as all major financial centres are being forced to be more transparent.‚Äù 
markyeg/FlickrUPDATE: Wal-Mart's Q4 2012 earnings release is out. Earnings per share came in at $1.67, higher than estimates of $1.57. Revenues came in at $127.1 billion, a bit less than expected. Wal-Mart offered guidance for first-quarter earnings in a range of $1.11 to $1.16 per share, lower than analysts' consensus estimate of $1.19. The company also hiked its 2014 full-year dividend 18 percent. While leaked emails circulated among Wal-Mart executives describing February sales figures as a "total disaster" blamed payroll tax hikes as the main culprit, the company today said the slow start was largely due to delayed tax refunds. This still translates to weak first-quarter guidance, though. The release states, "Due to the slower sales rate in the first few weeks of this year's first quarter, we are forecasting comp sales for the 13-week period from Jan. 26 to Apr. 26, 2013 to be around flat." Flat guidance compares with analysts' consensus estimate for around 1 percent sales growth in the first quarter, according to CNBC, Click here to refresh for updates &gt; The stock is moving higher in pre-market trading. Below are highlights from the release: Below is the section on comparable sales figures: During the 13-week period, the Walmart U.S. comp was driven by an increase in average ticket of 1.1 percent, and a traffic decline of 10 basis points. According to the Nielsen Company, we gained 40 basis points of market share1¬†in the measured category of "food, consumables and health &amp; wellness/OTC" during the 13 weeks ended Jan. 26, 2013. And, according to The NPD Group for the three-month period ending Dec. 31, 2012, we also improved market share1¬†in toys and the Walmart entertainment categories. "Despite comps at the low end of the guidance, our market share1¬†gains, as noted by Nielsen and NPD, along with our two-year positive comp trend indicates the underlying strength of Walmart's business," said Simon. "Comp sales grew by 1.0 percent for the quarter, lapping a solid 1.5 percent comp last year. This represented $743 million in comp growth for the quarter." The Walmart U.S. 13-week comp for last year's first quarter 13-week period rose 2.6 percent. "We are confident that our low prices will continue to resonate, as families adjust to a reduced paycheck and increased gas prices," Simon said. "We see the underlying health of the Walmart U.S. business is sound, and sales trends are similar to what we've demonstrated in the last few quarters. However, February sales started slower than planned, due in large part, to the delay in income tax refunds. We began seeing increased tax refund check activity late last week in our stores, resulting in a more normalized weekly sales pattern for this time of the year. Due to the slower sales rate in the first few weeks of this year's first quarter, we are forecasting comp sales for the 13-week period from Jan. 26 to Apr. 26, 2013 to be around flat. We continue to monitor economic conditions that can impact our sales, such as rising fuel prices, changes in inflation and the payroll tax increase." The Sam's Club 13-week comp, excluding fuel, benefited from a 1.6 percent increase in traffic and a 0.7 percent increase in average ticket. "Overall, we are proud of the accomplishments this year at Sam's Club, but also recognize the mounting economic concern from both small businesses and consumers," said Rosalind Brewer, Sam's Club president and chief executive officer. "The business member at Sam's Club is an integral part of our comp sales. Recent traffic patterns of our business members indicate that they are more deliberate in their spending due to macro-economic factors. Additionally, like Walmart U.S., our Advantage members are pressured by higher payroll income taxes, ongoing unemployment and higher gas prices. Our role at Sam's Club is to support our members by creating value for them through price investments." Last year, Sam's Club comp, without fuel, for the first quarter comparable 13-week period rose 5.3 percent. "Our primary growth for fiscal 2014 will come from comp sales," Brewer said. Similar to Walmart U.S., the first two weeks of our first quarter comp period were below plan, but have improved over the last week. "We expect comp club sales, without fuel, for the current 13-week period from Jan. 26, 2013 through Apr. 26, 2013, to range between flat and 2.0 percent." Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club will report comparable sales for the 13-week period ending Apr. 26 on May 16 when the company reports first quarter results. For fiscal year 2014, Walmart will report comparable store sales on a 53-week basis, with 4-5-5 reporting for the fourth quarter. Walmart's comp reporting first week starts with Sat., Jan. 26, 2013. Click here for the full release &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Heads up: we are just minutes away from Wal-Mart's fourth-quarter earnings release, due out at 7 AM ET. Analysts expect the company to post earnings of $1.57 per share and $128.5 billion in sales. Shares of the global retailing giant are down 3.2 percent since Friday, when leaked emails circulating among executives characterized February sales figures as a "total disaster," off to the worst monthly start in at least 7 years. We will have the full release LIVE at 7 AM ET. Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
Dibyangshu Sarkar/AFP India's public-sector banks and many government offices were shut Thursday on the second day of a general strike called to protest against the government's planned pro-market reforms. Eleven unions called the strike in protest at the measures which they condemn as "anti-poor" and likely to cost jobs and raise prices. While the impact of the stoppage was patchy and felt mainly in heavily unionised state institutions, analysts said it underscored discontent among workers. "The government must sit down with the workers and hear them out because it cannot afford to ignore this class any more with general elections due in 2014," Shubha Singh, a New Delhi-based political analyst and writer, told AFP. The reforms include opening the retail, insurance and aviation sectors wider to foreign investment in a bid to spur a sharply slowing economy. They also involve raising prices of subsidised diesel and reducing the number of discounted cooking gas cylinders to reduce a ballooning fiscal deficit. Leaders of two main leftist parties said they were boycotting the opening session of parliament on Thursday in solidarity with the strikers. The government is already under pressure over an economy growing at its weakest pace in a decade and widespread allegations of corruption. The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry has estimated losses from the two-day stoppage at more than 200 billion rupees ($3.7 billion). Attendance at government offices was thin and many education institutes were closed as teachers' unions joined the strike. Universities cancelled exams set for Thursday. Operations at India's state-run banks were also halted. Top carmaker Maruti, which has a history of labour unrest, declared a holiday to avert trouble while two-wheeler manufacturer Hero MotorCorp gave workers a day off. The All India Trade Union Congress said millions of workers were taking part in the strike and called on them to keep up pressure on the government, already facing a hostile opposition in parliament. But most privately-run factories reported normal operations and financial markets were open in Mumbai. Police said dozens of people were arrested after protests turned ugly in an industrial hub near New Delhi on Wednesday when a mob threw stones, vandalised factories and set several vehicles on fire to enforce the strike. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
A top American regulator has suggested that Libor was often "completely made up" and that authorities could not guarantee the rate is free of fraud. Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, likened Libor to an estate agent trying to sell a house. "They are trying to reference the price of the houses in the neighbourhood [when] there have been no transactions in the neighbourhood and furthermore, the agent is not willing to share the data and is often just making it all up," he told the BBC. Banks have already been fined hundreds of millions for attempting to rig the Libor rate, which is a benchmark interest rate used to fix the cost of borrowing on mortgages, loans and derivatives worth more than £28 trillion globally. Speaking about the scandal, Mr Gensler commenting on "pervasive rigging" and said authorities could not guarantee the rate was free of fraud. "We have a lot more work to do," he said. His comments came as the Financial Services Authority - Britain's regulator - said it will publish its internal review into when it first knew about banks rigging the Libor rate within weeks. The watchdog told parliament's Treasury Select Committee in a written submission that the review was being conducted by its internal audit division. The FSA was responding to the committee's report last year on the Libor scandal. Members of the committee were concerned the watchdog was two years behind US regulatory authorities in starting formal probes. The FSA said in its submission it had worked jointly with the US authorities from 2008 onwards. 
Last December there was a funny story about how the grandson of Italian Prime Minister got nicknamed "spread" by the other kids in school. The reason the kids called him that is that Monti himself has been publicly obsessed with the "spread", the difference between Italian borrowing costs and German borrowing costs. German 10-year bonds yield 1.60%. Italian bonds yield 4.46%. So the spread is just over 280 basis points. The spread was MUCH higher than when Monti took power in late 2011, but the gap is still large. Italy is still paying a large penalty in public markets for being Italy. At the time of the original story, this just seemed like an example of how Mario Monti was the ultimate banker's prime minister, talking about technical market measures, rather than the numbers that matter to real people (like jobs). And there is truth to that. But this morning in Milan I got to speak to some very senior investors at a major asset management company (so they could speak freely about politics, etc., they ask that they not be identified) and it became clear that the "spread" is everything in the eyes of the government, and those professionally invested in the economy. Here's why. Italy spends 4.5% of GDP on interest on its debt. Italy actually doesn't run a very big deficit each year, but its total debt is enormous (owing in large part to debts incurred in the 80s). With such a massive burden of debt, and because so much of the government spending goes to paying down debt, reducing the spread really is seen as the holy grail in their eyes. It's not just about ending an acute crisis, but freeing up cash to invest, maintain social programs, jobs, etc. The investors I talked to noted that Belgium has debt dynamics very similar to Italy, but because the "spread" is so much lower, its total debt burden is much less big of a deal. The obsession here is: Gaining credibility (through more political stability), reducing that spread, and then having the cash available to improve the economy. The big fear is that this weekend's election will make the government less stable, harm credibility, and make spread reduction difficult.
However, this may be one of the most closely followed Wal-Mart earnings announcements in a while. Last week, Bloomberg reported that emails exchanged by Wal-Mart executives suggested that February sales so far were a "total disaster."† Blaming the recent payroll tax hike, among other things, at least one exec reportedly wrote that this was the "worst start to a month I have seen in my ~7 years with the company." A spokesperson for Walmart told Bloomberg that the emails "lack the proper context." Hopefully, any discussion of outlook will provide some context. The earnings announcement is scheduled for release at 7:00 AM ET.† We'll be covering it live at BusinessInsider.com.
Commodities as a group have been underperforming equities for about six months now. The correlation between the two groups has been grinding lower. Even more important, I think the underperformance of commoditiesóand by extension emerging marketsówill persist for some time. Hang on. If the backdrop is improving growth expectations and continued, if not increased, global central bank base money expansion, why have they underperformed and why should it continue? Hereís my answer. Misunderstanding Monetary Policy This is going to sound bad so Iím just going to say it: Most investors and commentators have a deeply flawed understanding of monetary policy. Very few have any direct experience in this complex issue area. Many equate printing money with the money supply. They think changes in base money drive currencies. Most havenít internalized that the money supply in a modern monetary system is endogenous (i.e. created by banks and risk appetite, not the central bank). It is for these reasons people feared inflation, higher Treasury yields and a collapse in the dollar in response to the Fedís exceptional measures. Remember stagflation? Me neither. None of these things happened. People are now catching on to this. The percentage of investors who now think the Fed balance sheet will provoke a new crisis or that the ONLY possible solution to the US debt is inflating it away has shrunk considerably. This reduces the demand for hard assets. Pavlovís Oil Many may have forgotten by now that the first massive wave in commodities was in 2007-2008, back before we knew what QE was. The story then was China and the Emerging Markets were rapidly plugging into the grid, set to consume our finite reserves with their vertiginous growth trajectories. Subsequent boomlets in commodity prices, the ones that came post-crisis, were linked mainly to monetary stimuli and the flight into hard assets. Together, this imprinting led us to reach for emerging markets and commodities any time we had a risk-on phase. In this last phase people have again reached for commodities and emerging markets to express their bullishness, but Iím suggesting this time they are setting themselves up for disappointment. The first reason is that the emerging markets have downshifted their rate of growth. Some even have their own processes of credit digestion to contend with. Moreover, before the downshift we feared EM could grow to the sky, leaving many of us guessing at how intense the competition for scarce resources would become. We now have a better handle on ìhow high is highî. Second, we have been coming around to a better understanding of monetary policy. We now increasingly get that the effects of monetary policy will be largely psychological and transitory until the deleveraging process approaches completion. At least, I hope we do. Otherwise, the fall in commodity prices will be deeper and the pain trade will last longer. These developments will, eventually, reprogram our reaction function. The days where weíd say, as someone else recently put it, ìitís going to be a risk-on day, letís buy 200m AUDî, are likely to fade further and further into the recesses of our memories. Beware the Hype Machine When the sell-side makes ìa thingî out of an asset class, there is usually considerable downside and unwind at some point ahead. The length and depth of the downside is typically a pretty clean function of the length and breadth of the hype. And in 2011 commodities became a thing. Sell-side firms were sending team after team of analysts and strategists to explain exotic commodity trades, often to hedge fund managers who had no experience in them. Buy side firms started to scramble to build their own teams and launch new strategies. John Paulson was still in hero mode and he was buying gold, thus giving cover to othersí hubris. And, of course, the gold ads on television were busy shifting into a higher gear. I could just close my eyes at night and hear the sound of central banks printing money. The apex came in the spring 2011, a month or two before the final parabolic burst in silver. The Morgan Stanley commodity specialist came in to visit with his 8-man team. When he recommended as his best idea, a pairs trade ìlong rhodium and short molybdenumî (really, Iím not kidding), I knew that the time for shorting precious metals would be soon upon us. The bottom line: the speculative demand for commodities is likely to become less robust over time, and the growth rate of emerging markets more modest and definable. We are in the midst of the process of pricing these factors in. And the good news is the decline in commodity prices need not presage a collapse in global growth if it is mostly a function of a slow unwind of past excesses and monetary miscalibration.
TheImpulsiveBuy / FlickrNEW YORK (Reuters) - Kellogg Co &lt;K.N.&gt; said 36,000 packages of its Special K Red Berries cereal could contain dangerous glass fragments and have been pulled from the market, the latest in a series of recalls of its popular brands. Company spokesman Kris Charles said late on Wednesday that three sizes of the product were involved and had been distributed across the United States to a limited number of retailers. No consumer injuries have been reported, she said. "The company took this precautionary action due to the possible presence of glass fragments from a single batch of one of the ingredients," Charles said. "This is a very small recall...We took the step out of an abundance of caution." Charles said the voluntary recall is unrelated to big recalls in recent years that involved other well-known Kellogg cereals, cookies and crackers. The company is still in the process of turning itself around after admitting that it had cut too many jobs in prior years that contributed to manufacturing problems. The latest recall involves 11.2-ounce retail packages of Kellogg's Special K Red Berries cereal identified by UPC Code 38000 59923 with a "Better if Used by" date stamp of DEC 02 2013 KNC 105 00:13 through DEC 02 2013 KNC 105 02:30. It also includes 37-ounce club-store packages identified by UPC Code 38000 20940, followed by a "Better if Used by" date of NOV 30 2013 KNB 107 17:31 to NOV 30 2013 KNB 107 20:05. Kellogg said 22.4-ounce twin-packs were also recalled. They are identified by UPC Code 38000 78356, along with "Better if Used by" time stamps of NOV 30 2013 KNA 105 07:00 to NOV 30 2013 KNA 105 08:51, and NOV 30 2013 KNB 105 15:00 to NOV 30 2013 KNB 105 17:05. Special K is touted by the company as a low-calorie consumer option. Kellogg in October recalled 2.8 million boxes of its Mini-Wheats cereal after fragments of flexible metal mesh from a faulty manufacturing part were found inside packages. In June 2010, the company voluntarily recalled millions of packages of Kellogg's Corn Pops, Honey Smacks, Froot Loops and Apple Jacks cereals due to an off-flavor and odor of the products. In 2009, it voluntarily recalled certain lots of its Austin and Keebler brands of peanut-butter sandwich crackers and Famous Amos and Keebler cookies due to potential contamination with Salmonella. (Reporting By Ransdell Pierson and Martinne Geller; Editing by Matt Driskill) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
ìThere is nothing intelligent to be said about gold. Nobody can tell you the right price for an ounce of gold. People will tell you it should go up or go down. To make any intelligent statements about investments you have to know what the right price is. You canít do that with an asset like gold, which doesnít produce any cash flow. So you can buy it out of superstition or ignore it because you are an atheist but you cannot buy it with an analytical foundation.î Gold is a hedge. †Insurance. †Not a core piece of a portfolio and certainly not something you should construct your monetary life around. †I am probably less pessimistic about the role of gold in a portfolio than Marks is, but I do think this is a crucial understanding. †Assets without cash flows cannot be the centerpiece of a portfolio not only because they are difficult to value, but because they cannot be relied upon to protect oneís portfolio against the risk of permanent loss. At the end of the day, the primary goal of a savings portfolio is allocating that savings in a manner that protects against the risk of permanent loss and the loss of purchasing power in a manner that is consistent with generating reasonable risk adjusted returns. †See here for more on ìthe myth of investingî and proper portfolio construction.
This is another ugly start to the day. Remember, yesterday the US took it on the chin. Commodities got crushed and stocks fell nicely on slightly hawkish Fed minutes. Today: the pain is in Europe. Flash PMI from across the Eurozone is coming in bad. France was especially bad. Germany is down 1.8%. The UK is down 1.5%. And Italy is getting clobbered. FTSE MIB
The Flash PMI reading is a preliminary look at the state of a country's manufacturing sector for the month. If this number is accurate it's horrible. Here's a chart from the report, showing the index hitting a 47-month low. Markit And here's a summary. Markit
I just arrived in Milan, where I'll spend the next few days getting ready for the big Italian election that's coming up on Sunday and Monday. Unlike some flights, this one was pretty boring. For example, my view from my inner section aisle seat looked like this for 8 hours. Joseph Weisenthal, Business Insider And the food was quite unremarkable. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider But there is one thing cool. Milan is very close to Switzerland, and thus very close to the Alps. So when you're a few minutes away from the airport (as you can see on this live map)... Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider You get some truly jaw-dropping views out the window. Here's one I took from several seats away from the window. It's a grainy iPhone shot, but you should be able to appreciate how amazing it is seeing one of the world's most epic mountain ranges from above. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider And here's one that I had taken for me from the person who was sitting near the window. Apologies for the graininess. It's a grey, snowy morning here. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider
