
Just earlier we were noting that Bitcoin had surged past $155. Now? Blowing past $173. Clarkmoody.com
APThe Japanese stock market is surging early in the Asian trading session. With any stock market rally, there are usually some stocks that are in the red. But that's not what's happening right now in the Nikkei 225, Japan's most widely followed stock market index. "Literally 100% of stocks in the Nikkei 225 are currently rising," tweeted Bloomberg BRIEF economist Michael McDonough. McDonough also tweeted a screengrab showing 100% green in every Nikkei subindex. This comes in the wake of the Bank Of Japan's extraordinary efforts to stimulate the economy through easy monetary policy.¬† The expectation among investors is that inflation will make its way into stocks sending prices higher.
REUTERS / Reuters PhotographerNick Leeson is escorted by three Commercial Affairs Department (CAD) officers from a Singapore Airlines flight from Frankfurt which arrived in Singapore, in this November 23, 1995 file photo.He is, as his new employer puts it, the man ‚Äúfamed for his role in the collapse of Barings Bank‚Äù. Investors and staff at what was once the City‚Äôs oldest merchant bank may not remember Nick Leeson in quite such glowing terms, but his new clients may see the ¬£827m of trading losses he racked up in 1995 as a badge of honour. After 13 years on the speaking circuit since being released from a Singapore jail, Mr Leeson has landed a job in financial services in Ireland as an alternative insolvency practitioner. He plans to help over-indebted borrowers negotiate a deal with their banks. Mr Leeson is joining GDP Partnership to mediate on behalf of distressed borrowers with debts of more than ‚Ç¨1m (¬£850,000) to find ‚Äúthe best possible outcome for both bank and borrower‚Äù, said Conor Devine, a chartered surveyor and one of GDP‚Äôs founding partners. Mr Leeson, who has lived in Ireland for the past 10 years, told the Irish Independent newspaper: ‚ÄúBanks in Ireland were part of the problem by lending recklessly and now they have to be part of the solution.‚Äù He will join as head of the Dublin office and will be supported by a team of property, accountancy, legal and banking professionals. It builds on GDP‚Äôs successful model in Northern Ireland, where the company‚Äôs catchphrase is ‚Äúa solution is always possible‚Äù. Mr Leeson may have broken Barings, but Ireland‚Äôs financial crisis brought the entire country to its knees. Since the crash, Dublin has injected ‚Ç¨80bn into its banks and nationalised or part-nationalised six of them. 
The week begins, and the Japanese market is on fire again. As the yen weakens (thanks to a continuation of the move last week, after the Bank of Japan eased policy) the Nikkei is spiking. Nikkei
Wikimedia CommonsBritish 55th Division gas casualties, April 10, 1918Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services Director of Floor Operations, has been working on Wall Street for over 50 years. But in a new interview with Eric King of King World News, Cashin reveals that he often thinks about an event that happened long before he began his career: World War I. Today, he's reminded of it because of all of the complacency he sees in the markets despite tremendous geopolitcal tensions. Here's Cashin's response to a question about what concerns him most: ìIím still concerned about geopolitics.† Here in this business I have learned that the story which seems to be buried on page 13 can sometimes almost instantly rocket its way on to page 1, and rocket its way to everyoneís attention.† But perhaps the greatest concern I have, Eric, is that there is a kind of complacency. There seems to be an almost palpable belief around the world that cooler heads will prevail.† Someone will step in and stop this from happening.† And while it happened even before I began my 50 year career, Iíve long been a student of history, both financial and geopolitical, and I think back to World War I when everyone on both sides knew that such a war would be unwinnable, would be distasteful, but managed to walk into it believing that logic would prevent the guy on the other side from making a fatal mistake. So whether it is exercises in Korea or economic changes in Europe, the idea that rational men will prevent irrational crises doesnít live up to world history.î†† †  Cashin also shares his thoughts on the recent events in Cyprus.† Read about it at KingWorldNews.com.
Venezuela is one week away from the election to replace Hugo Chavez. This photo captures opposition candidate Henrique Capriles' huge rally held today in Caracas. From Reuters: Venezuela's opposition leader and presidential candidate Henrique Capriles (C) speaks to supporters during a campaign rally in Caracas April 7, 2013. Hundreds of thousands of Venezuelan opposition supporters rallied in a staunchly pro-government part of the capital on Sunday, answering a call by their candidate Capriles and showing strength a week before the presidential election.  REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins (HT: Matthew Clayfield)
The markets are flickering back to life, and the yen is diving again. The dollar vs. the yen is nearly 99. Just a couple days ago it was around 95, but aggressive BOJ easing is causing the dollar to surge against the yen. Get ready to dust off your USDJPY 100 hats. FinViz
APThe news that Portugal's top court has rejected some austerity measures as unconstitutional is just the latest event in Europe to make people worried again. The fact that the court has rejected some plans means Portugal won't achieve its desired level of fiscal consolidation, unless further cuts are made elsewhere, which is something the current government has promised to do. In a Sunday-night statement, the European Commission says: The European Commission welcomes that, following the decision of the Portuguese Constitutional Court on the 2013 state budget, the Portuguese Government has confirmed its commitment to the adjustment programme, including its fiscal targets and timeline. Any departure from the programme's objectives, or their re-negotiation, would in fact neutralise the efforts already made and achieved by the Portuguese citizens, namely the growing investor confidence in Portugal, and prolong the difficulties from the adjustment. The Commission therefore trusts that the Portuguese Government will swiftly identify the measures necessary to adapt the 2013 budget in a way that respects the revised fiscal target as requested by the Portuguese Government and supported by the Troika in the 7th review of the programme. Continued and determined implementation of the programme offers the best way to restore sustainable economic growth and to improve employment opportunities in Portugal. At the same time, it is a precondition for a decision on the lengthening of the maturities of the financial assistance to Portugal, which would facilitate¬†Portugal's return to the financial markets and the attainment of the programme's objectives. The Commission supports that such a decision be taken soon. The Commission will continue to work constructively with the Portuguese authorities within the parameters agreed to alleviate the social consequences of the crisis. The Commission reiterates that a strong consensus around the programme will contribute to its successful implementation. In this respect, it is essential that Portugal's key political institutions are united in their support.
‚ÄúFiscal stimulus trumps. Increased public debt. Devalue!‚Äù¬† You‚Äôd expect to hear that in a debate between economic policymakers, perhaps ‚Äî not a rehearsal by musicians practicing to stage an opera. But that‚Äôs where composer Eugene Birman reads those words as the Tallinn Chamber Orchestra rehearses his libretto inside a stately medieval guild house in the heart of the Estonian capital. It‚Äôs part of ‚ÄúNostra Culpa,‚Äù what he describes as a ‚Äúfinancial opera‚Äù that was inspired by this country‚Äôs brief turn at the center of a raging debate over how to tackle the financial crisis paralyzing Europe and dragging on the¬†global economy. It took place last summer, when the former Soviet republic became a poster child for the euro zone‚Äôs austerity drive in an improbable but dramatic¬†war of words¬†between the American economist Paul Krugman and Estonia‚Äôs President Toomas Hendrik Ilves. Their exchange was partly prompted by a¬†GlobalPost article¬†about Estonia‚Äôs booming economy austerity supporters pointed to as evidence spending cuts are more effective than economic stimulus. Krugman weighed in, saying statistics about Estonia‚Äôs growth had been presented in a misleading way. Ilves ‚Äî who grew up in the¬†United States¬†after his family fled Soviet rule ‚Äî¬†responded on Twitter¬†by attacking the Nobel laureate‚Äôs credentials with a series of escalating barbs. ‚ÄúLet‚Äôs shi*t on East Europeans,‚Äù he said, sarcastically goading a ‚Äúsmug, overbearing &amp; patronizing‚Äù Krugman he accused of treating his fellow countrymen like ‚Äúwogs.‚Äù Now composer Birman and journalist Scott Diel have creatively interpreted the spat in the form of a 16-minute cantata that will premier in Tallinn on Sunday. Although the idea may raise eyebrows among both economic analysts and music lovers, the Latvian-born American composer believes the story has suitably epic proportions and all the passion needed for a dramatic opera. When the Estonian economy plummeted five years ago, the government began slashing spending in health care and other key areas and raising taxes. By 2011, the country boasted a budget surplus, low national debt and GDP growth of 8.3 percent, the European Union‚Äôs highest. Some took that as proof austerity works. However, Krugman debated in his¬†New York Times blog¬†that the argument isn‚Äôt entirely accurate because GDP hasn‚Äôt returned to its 2007 level. The leading austerity critic continues to lock horns with EU officials. He recently took a personal swipe at EU Economic Commissioner Olli Rehn by referring to a ‚ÄúRehn of Terror‚Äù in a February blog post. Birman wryly points out that artists such as himself have as much interest as anyone in the merits of public spending cuts. ‚ÄúWe can look at this in a very basic sense and say, because some countries are concentrating on austerity, composers are making less money from government funding,‚Äù he laughs. But the composer insists his opera ‚Äî in which Estonian mezzo-soprano Iris Oja sings the words of both protagonists in separate movements ‚Äî doesn‚Äôt choose sides in what he sees as a clash between two fundamentally opposing viewpoints. Birman, who has a bachelor's degree in economics, says he‚Äôs acutely aware the drama isn‚Äôt fiction. It‚Äôs about real people, he says, the ordinary Estonians who elected the government and must live with the consequences of its austerity policies. Outside the guild house where the orchestra is rehearsing in Tallinn's picturesque medieval center, many locals support its approach. ‚ÄúI believe this way we‚Äôre better off in the end,‚Äù Heiki Velba says. ‚ÄúIf we borrowed money, it wouldn't be our own money. We'd still have to pay it back.‚Äù Others say the president‚Äôs Twitter outburst went down well with the Estonian public. ‚ÄúIt was a big deal,‚Äù Raudo Lepik says. ‚ÄúPeople were saying that some American doesn't have a right to tell us what to do.‚Äù Nevertheless, he‚Äôs wary of Estonia being presented as a success story abroad. ‚ÄúSometimes it feels like our politicians care only about our image abroad,‚Äù he says. ‚ÄúIn fact, things aren‚Äôt that great.‚Äù Predictably perhaps, officials here insist Estonia has plenty to boast about. ‚ÄúEstonia is an example of the triumph of smart consolidation [of our economy],‚Äù Finance Minister J√ºrgen Ligi said in an interview. ‚ÄúWhat else could Estonia want when we are the fastest growing economy of the current decade in the euro zone and have the smallest debt in the EU?‚Äù He plays down Ilves‚Äôs robust, if less economically centered, defense of such consolidation as an amusing side show. ‚ÄúOf course, that particular emotional reaction did not fully lay out our comprehensive pro-consolidation arguments,‚Äù Ligi said. ‚ÄúWe followed the emotional reaction of our president with amusement, but when someone asked me if he could have been a bit tipsy before tweeting, my joking answer was that of those two, only Krugman could have been drinking any alcohol.‚Äù More from GlobalPost:¬†Euro zone unemployment reaches a record 12 percent high The minister said he‚Äôs unlikely to attend the opera‚Äôs premier. ‚ÄúIt is likely to include matters that could annoy me,‚Äù he said. Still, Birman hopes its protagonists will watch the show. ‚ÄúPaul Krugman and President Ilves got personal invitations,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúIf they did both come, I think it would be their first meeting ‚Äî it would be very interesting.‚Äù¬†
Associated PressWELCOME BACK. We hope you had an excellent weekend. If you want to feel gloomy as things get going again, check out the latest from SocGen's Kit Juckes, who talks about the Portuguese Supreme Court rejections of austerity measures, and the fear that global growth is crumbling again. The weekend talk is all Euro and of course, all bearish. The CFTC data on Friday night confirmed that the market got itself good and short euro and good and long dollars and that set the scene for the bounce. But Draghi DID hint at lower rates. And then Portugal's constitutional court threw a fast ball at the Portuguese government. Apparently, cutting pay and benefits for the public sector is unfair on the rest so they need to try again. The result is that there's a hole in the austerity plan and everyone else (ie Spain) is looking to see what happens. Europe has no growth plan, and austerity into recessions is unpopular. And perhaps unconstitutional. Meanwhile, Jens Weidmann is spelling out the same uncomfortable and austere message about winding up banks and the public sector not always being there to bail everyone out, as† Dijsselbloem. The bottom line of all this is always the same - don't count on growth. Gavyn Davies meanwhile has a piece in the FT wondering whether we are, yet again, seeing a winter bounce in global growth crumble in the face of spring. And he thinks Germany is critical. Oops, German data are softening too. ECB will ease further, Europe still lacks a growth plan,it would still be better if the ECB actively pushed the euro down, but that takes a huge mind-set shift. Europe is still trying to be Japanese and even after Friday's nonsense, have you seen how low long-dated JGB yields are in Japan? So yes, on the plate are: The craziness in Japan, collapsing Euro growth, and now this pesky constitutional court in Portugal saying that some austerity measures are not allowed. Meanwhile, we'll find out Friday if things are really deteriorating again in the US.
AP ImagesI was saddened to learn of the passing of iconic fashion designer Lilly Pulitzer Rousseau.† Lilly, who made the brightly colored shift dress a staple in women's wardrobes,†died on Sunday morning in her Palm Beach home surrounded by friends and family. She was 81. I have been wearing Lilly Pulitzer designs devotedly since I was a teenager. Even my New York apartment is completely decked out with the signature patterns and bright colors.†I guess you could say I'm somewhat obsessed.† Lilly Pulitzer was someone I admired and not just for the clothing she inspired. You see,†Lilly Pulitzer is more than just a brand, it's a lifestyle. Let me explain...† Lilly was coming around at a time when everyone was very prim and proper and doing all the right things. †You could say she broke the rules. † In 1952, the 21-year-old New York socialite eloped with Peter Pulitzer, the grandson of newspaper publisher Joseph Pulitzer. (They got divorced in 1969) She left her family in New York and moved to Palm Beach, Florida with her first husband.† While in Florida, she needed something to keep her occupied other than just being a housewife. Her husband's family had an orchard so she opened up a juice stand in 1959. † The juice left stains on her clothes, so she went to her seamstress to make dresses in a print that would disguise the juice stains. That's how it all started. † People came to her stand for the juice, but they also wanted to buy the brightly-colored dresses she was wearing.† At that time, clothing was pretty conservative. There weren't many bright colors or anything wild.†Lilly really created something avant garde.† In 1962, Lilly's former classmate and then-First Lady, Jacqueline Kennedy, appeared on a†LIFE†magazine cover wearing a Lilly shift dress. The brand took off from there. Some of the biggest names in the fashion industry have even acknowledged her as an icon:† Diane von Furstenberg: "Lilly Pulitzer...Palm beach at its best! A timeless American style! Michael Kors: "With her bold prints and sunny colors, Lilly taught the world about Palm Beach style."† Lilly retired from the day-to-day operations of the brand in 1993, but remained on as a consultant. †† Today, Lilly Pulitzer, which is owned by Oxford Industries, is†headquartered in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania.†The brand is sold in Lilly stores, online, in signature stores, boutiques and major department stores across the country.† In social media spheres, Lilly Pulitzer has more than 488,000 Facebook "Likes," more than 68,000 Twitter followers and more than 64,000 Instagram followers. The clothing still incorporates the brightly-colored patterns (flowers, seashells, animals, etc.) and "spill proof" designs that she inspired. Lilly's designs symbolize a woman who is willing to take a chance.† Lilly represents a woman who doesn't want to just blend in with the crowd, but wants to be a little brighter.† Here are a few photos of my life in Lilly:† Julia La Roche for BI † Julia La Roche for BI BI Julia La Roche for BI Julia La Roche for BI
[Editor's note: Bitcoin prices are currently at $158] Some call it the most famous pizza purchase in history: In May 2010, a programmer called Laszlo asked an online forum if anyone would buy him a couple of pies in exchange for 10,000 Bitcoins, an experimental online currency launched in 2009. "No weird fish topping or anything like that," he wrote. With each Bitcoin fetching less than a cent at the time, the order was worth about $41. Today, it would be valued at about $1.4 million (1.08 million euros). As of Friday, a single Bitcoin traded at around $135, with the currency nearing $147 earlier in the week -- up from about $20 at the start of February. It's a stratospheric jump some claim has been fuelled by Cypriots and Russians seeking to invest their euros elsewhere during Cyprus's banking crisis, stoking fears that a new online bubble might soon burst. "It's completely irrational," said Yannick Naud, a portfolio manager at the London-based Glendevon King Asset Management firm, who has seen an increase in client queries about Bitcoins. "As an investor you can't put any underlying value on the Bitcoin itself." Bitcoins were launched in 2009 in the wake of the global financial crisis by an anonymous programmer who wanted to create a currency independent of any central bank or financial institution. A form of "e-money", it is made of strings of dazzlingly complex code created by raw computing power -- a process called "mining" that can in theory be carried out by anyone with a computer. The software is written in such a way that it becomes increasingly difficult to generate new Bitcoins, with the number in circulation designed to eventually top out at 21 million. Once mined, Bitcoins are stored on a user's hard drive in a virtual wallet, and can be sent directly to another person. Such peer-to-peer sharing bypasses the banks so is largely anonymous. But this brings its own risks -- in June 2011, hackers targeted virtual wallets and wiped some people's accounts clean. At first a coder's curio, Bitcoins quickly found a home in the "deep web", the shadier part of the Internet that is largely anonymous and requires some good technical understanding to access. It was used to fuel illicit drug buys and pay for other illegal services on specialist sites. But computer aficionados and tech-savvy libertarians embraced the currency too, and in recent months a flurry of legit businesses have started accepting Bitcoins. A cottage industry of stores buying and reselling goods online for Bitcoins has emerged, and some high-profile transactions have helped push the currency into mainstream consciousness. One Canadian man reportedly hoped to sell his house for Bitcoins, and a US man claimed to have traded his 2007 Porsche for 300 Bitcoins. Robert Walker, a digital designer from London, said he bought about 200 Bitcoins over a six-month period starting at the end of 2011. He spends much of his time online and was excited by the idea of the Internet minting its own currency, and an investment not beholden to any central authority. His purchase set him back about $900, but today would net some $27,000. But despite this week's new price highs, he's going to keep his virtual stash -- for now at least. "It's not a life changing amount of money, but it could be if I sat on it for five years," Walker said. But for Naud, the asset manager, Bitcoin is reaching unsustainable levels. On paper at least, the value of Bitcoins in circulation now tops $1 billion, and a continued increase in price will require a lot of new investors. "The bubble will burst when there will be less people willing to enter (the Bitcoin market) than people willing to leave it," he said. "It's hard to pinpoint, but it probably won't last another month at this price." Experts said Bitcoins are especially vulnerable to rapid deflation. Governments trying to regulate them, for example, could spook investors and cause them to lose confidence. Already in the US, regulators have taken note of the currency and moved to make firms report transactions worth $10,000 or more, according to the Wall Street Journal. "If it gets very popular, I can see the government clamping down," said Alistair Cotton, a senior analyst with Currencies Direct. "I think it would lead to a massive drop off in the number of users." The Cyprus banking crisis - which saw the tiny nation agree a bailout deal with the International Monetary Fund, European Commission and European Central Bank that will shrink the banking sector and lead to losses on deposits of more than 100,000 euros - also coincided with a run-up in Bitcoin valuation. Cotton sees similarities between Bitcoin and Napster, an early online file-sharing service that ran into legal difficulties and was eventually closed, though it was soon replaced by numerous other file-sharing services. Even if Bitcoin doesn't last, other virtual currencies will surely rise in its place, he said. "If you look back in history in terms of financial bubbles, they always end," he said. "It's going to be a very rough ride for guys that invest in Bitcoin for speculative purposes." Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Daniel Goodman/Business InsiderResearchers have found the compound in red meat that's linked to cardiovascular diseases ‚Äî like heart attacks and strokes from the buildup of plaques in blood vessels. Surprisingly, it wasn't the high saturated fat or cholesterol content in the meat, but a different compound called L-carnitine. But, knowing this could help make steak healthier in the future and provide better treatments for cardiovascuar disease, though a few servings of steak a week is still ok, risk wise. "There's no need to change our dietary recommendations from this ‚Äî a Mediterranean style diet with modest meat, fish, dairy and alcohol intake, coupled with more pulses, vegetables fruits, whole grains and mono-unsaturated fats, remains the nutritional blueprint for a healthy and healthful life," Catherine Collins, a dietitian who didn't perform the study, said in a statement from the Science Media Centre. The culprit, L-carnitine, is sometimes taken as a nutritional supplement, which may be unwise for meat eaters, the researchers said. In the study, the researchers found an association between how much L-carnitine people take in from meat and their risk of cardiovascular disease. They also saw a direct link between the nutrient and plaque build up in the blood vessels of lab mice. Interestingly, they found that the effects of this nutrient aren't direct, but seem to be mediated by how it's metabolized by gut bacteria. In the gut, the L-carnitine is metabolized into a compound called Trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO). Meat-eaters had more TMAO in their blood and were at a higher risk for cardiovascular diseases. Studies have found that people who don't eat as much meat don't metabolize L-carnitine as well, but those who eat a lot of it have tons of the bacteria that turn it into TMAO. These gut bacteria are what make red meat dangerous, it seems. There's a good side to this, though. It indicates that the negative effects of meat-eating aren't linked to the levels of saturated fat and cholesterol in red meat. Maybe one day we could make meat and other sources of L-carnitine in our diet safer to eat by developing a way to block the metabolism of this nutrient in the gut ‚Äî thereby lowering the risk of cardiovascular diseases. They also noted that meat eaters could be given a type of antibiotics to kill off these L-carnitine-metabolizing bacteria didn't accumulate as high levels of TMAO in their blood, though we wouldn't recommend taking antibacterials just so you can go on a steak binge. The researchers note that L-carnitine is used as a dietary supplement¬†by some to ward off cognitive decline or improve fat metabolism. For meat-eaters who have a lot of gut bacteria to turn it into TMAO, that could be dangerous, though the safety of this hasn't been studied. "But I would strongly recommend that unless you're a vegetarian or vegan, there is a potential risk from taking L-carnitine," Collins said. "If the evidence is confirmed these supplements would do more to damage arteries than provide health benefits." The new study was published Sunday, April 7, in the journal Nature Medicine.
AP ImagesA South Korean security guard works to turn back vehicles as they were refused to enter to Kaesong, North Korea.There is a North Korean factory with no portraits of the country's late leaders on the walls, no North Korean flags, no hand-painted posters screaming party slogans. Everything from the tissues to the toilets comes from South Korea. Bent over bolts of wool and rayon, North Koreans work quietly to the hum of sewing machines making shirts, suits and overcoats that will go out with vaguely Italian names. Virtually the only hint of North Korea in the factory is a calendar on the wall that proclaims, "The Great Comrades Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il Will Always Be With Us." Today, this factory and others in the Kaesong industrial complex, managed by South Koreans and staffed by North Korean workers, face the prospect of closure. Since Wednesday, North Korea has refused to let in South Korean managers and trucks bearing food, materials and supplies. It's seen as punishment for Seoul's decision to forge ahead with joint military drills with the United States that continue through April and have incensed Pyongyang, which sees the exercises as a rehearsal for an invasion. Restricting travel through the armed border is also a way to remind the South Koreans that a state of war remains intact on the Korean Peninsula 60 years the fighting ended with a truce. Pyongyang also is angry with Seoul for backing tightened U.N. sanctions on North Korea for conducting a banned nuclear test in February. North Korea has been raising its war rhetoric for weeks now, but so far, Kaesong is the main casualty. More than 500 South Koreans remained there Saturday and are free to stay, but their companies are beginning to run out of supplies. They hope this disruption ends up being similar lasts no longer than one in 2009 that lasted about a week. For nearly a decade, the sprawling complex on the North Korean side of the Demilitarized Zone has been held up as a crucible of reconciliation, a test case for how reunification of the two Koreas might look. But as relations deteriorated in recent years, it became a prickly subject for South Korea. The last media visits to factories from the South Korean side are believed to have been in 2007. In September, The Associated Press visited from the North Korean side, accompanied by officials from the North-South management committee that administers the special economic zone. __ Kaesong seems like a slice of South Korea transplanted in North Korea, especially when driving in from Pyongyang. From downtown Kaesong, the road to the factory park on the outskirts of town runs past rice paddies and simple cottages with tiled roofs. Oxen trudge along the sides pulling carts and a man cycles by with a dead pig strapped to back of his bicycle. A woman sitting by the side of the road has her head in her hands, a small cooler of drinks for sale next to her. Enter the military-guarded gate to the vast, sparsely populated factory park and you'll find a Hyundai Oilbank gasoline station, two convenience stores with plastic picnic tables outside and a branch of the South Korea's Woori Bank. There are blue road signs in English and Korean, and lane dividers and bike lanes on the road. None of those things exist in the rest of North Korea. The complex has stoplights, unlike downtown Kaesong, but not much traffic besides the Hyundai buses that shuttle North Koreans workers to and from work, and the Kia, Hyundai and Ssangyong cars driven by the South Korean managers. The complex, conceived following the historic 2000 summit between late North Korean leader Kim Jong Il and late South Korean President Kim Dae-jung, broke ground in 2003. The first factory opened in December 2004. The plan was for South Korean firms to build 500 factories as part of a pledge to help develop North Korea's economy, according to Pak Chol Su, vice director of the General Bureau for Central Guidance, which manages Kaesong. Pak, who is North Korean, noted that a June 2000 agreement signed by both Korean governments calls for improving North Korea's economy "equally, on the principle of mutual assistance." AP ImagesNorth Korean workers In a factory at the Kaesong Industrial ComplexToday, some 120 South Korean businesses have factories in Kaesong. He said they employ about 51,000 North Koreans, mostly women, making the complex the biggest provider of jobs in Kaesong, the country's third-largest city. Shoes and clothing make up 70 percent of the goods produced; the rest are largely chemical and electrical products, he said. Hundreds of South Koreans run the factories, some living during the week in Kaesong and others commuting every day across the border. Goods, supplies and food are brought in by truck every morning, and leave in the late afternoon with finished products. ___ South Korean manager Chun Eun-suk took AP on a tour of GS Bucheon, which produces cables and wires that will make their way into Samsung and LG refrigerators and washing machines assembled in factories in China and Southeast Asia. A North Korean official accompanied the AP, which was denied permission to speak North Korean workers. Workers in light blue jackets with the company name stitched on the pocket deftly handled multicolored wires. "It's very simple work. They can learn this in a day," said manager Hong Ha-sung. The propaganda on the walls here is about health and safety: "Beware of fires!" ''Wash your hands carefully!" There's a ping pong table with balls emblazoned with the word "peace" ‚Äî sometimes the competition is fierce. The interaction between the North and South Koreans is collegial and cordial, but Chun and Hong say socializing is kept to a minimum. The South Koreans dine separately from the North Koreans, eating food brought from the South and stored in their own refrigerator. The question of how North Korean workers are paid is a thorny one, with many believing that the government takes a large cut of the salaries. Hong said he pays the employees directly. The average Kaesong worker makes more than $110 a month, said Pak, the North Korean official. Trainees make less, but an "incentive-based" system allows workers to earn as much as $150 a month, he said. "With overtime, they can earn bonuses," Pak said, speaking to AP in September in a conference room with portraits of Kim Jong Il and North Korean founder Kim Il Sung hanging behind him. Discussion of bonuses and incentives has been associated with directive from leader Kim Jong Un, son of Kim Jong Il and grandson of Kim Il Sung. At clothing maker ShinWon's three gleaming, futuristic buildings, the toilets are South Korean and the sewing machines are Japanese. Even the pantry is stocked with South Korean snacks. Workers are dressed in blue bonnets and in uniforms with "ShinWon" stitched in English on the spot where they'd normally wear a loyalty pin bearing their leaders' portraits. At one cutting table, a South Korean manager confers quietly with two North Korean women about a design. The women nod in agreement. A sign taped up on a wall says "Accuracy" in Korean. ShinWon President Hwang Woo-seung said that although Kaesong's tax regulations and other rules can be complicated, it's worth it to be able to employ North Korean workers. "First of all, we speak the same language," he said in Kaesong in September. "And secondly, they're very skilled with their hands." On Saturday, ShinWon said its 15 South Korean managers were staying in Kaesong. The company has enough raw materials to last through early May but will soon run out of gas, fuel and food if the entry ban continues, a spokesman said Saturday. ___ The complex is about more than money, said Cho Dong-ho, a North Korea expert at Ewha Womans University in Seoul: "It is a string that links the two Koreas." "If it evaporates, there is officially nothing in terms of economic ties between the countries," he said. South Korea's new unification minister, Ryoo Kihl-jae, says new President Park Geun-hye is open to dialogue with North Korea. "We have repeatedly said this, but what we want from the Kaesong industrial complex is stable maintenance and development," he said in Seoul on Friday. Inside Kaesong, managers and workers avoid talking politics. In Seoul, South Korea is called "hanguk" in Korean; in Kaesong, they simply call the country "Choson," the pre-division name for Korea. Similarly, the labels on ShinWon's garments read simply: Made in Korea. "We don't say 'DPRK' or 'North Korea,'" Hwang said. "Southerners won't know if it's made in South Korea or North Korea ‚Äî but the quality is just as high." He said he's looking forward to the day when everything made on the Korean Peninsula can bear that same label. "We're waiting for the day when the country will be reunified," he said. "We're working hard every day." ___ Associated Press writer Sam Kim contributed to this report from Seoul, South Korea. Follow AP's Korea bureau chief at www.twitter.com/newsjean.
ABCWhite House senior adviser Dan Pfeiffer accused House Republicans of wanting a "Romney economic plan," charging them with holding up progress on a sweeping budget deal.† "The presidentís focus, in addition to the regular order process that members of Congress say they want, is to try to find a caucus of common sense," Pfeiffer said on ABC's "This Week" with George Stephanopoulos.  "Folks who are willing to compromise, that donít think compromise is a dirty word, and try to get something done. But if Speaker Boehnerís position, as he said it in that statement, remains his position, then we will not make progress, because what this president will not do is come in, right after getting reelected, and enact a Romney economic plan, which is what the Republicans in the House are proposing." Obama will release his budget proposal on Wednesday. His plan has already earned pushback from both Republicans and Democrats, the latter of whom are upset at his plan to make cuts to entitlement programs†including Medicare and Social Security. Pfeiffer said that Obama will only accept the "chained CPI" adjustment if Republicans are willing to close tax loopholes and if it offers protections for the "most vulnerable" seniors who would be affected by the changes. "Look, this is compromise," Pfeiffer said. "And compromise means there are going to be some folks on both sides who are not happy."
APThe AFL-CIO, the nation's largest coalition of unions and a staunch supporter of President Barack Obama, blasted Obama's budget proposal on Saturday in an email to supporters that urges them to sign a petition opposing cuts to Social Security and Medicare. Liberals have made known their opposition to Obama's proposal†since reports started emerging on Friday. At highest issue is the proposal known as Chained CPI,†a means of cutting Social Security and other entitlement programs by using a different inflation measure that won't rise as much. It would have its biggest effect on Social Security. Here's a subsequent blog post from AFL-CIO director of policy Damon Silvers: In a time of rampant income inequality and stagnant wages, a blow to retirement security is the last thing we need.† It's†unconscionable†we're asking seniors, people with disabilities and veterans to be squeezed of every last penny when corporations and the wealthiest 2% are not paying their fair share of taxes, despite soaring profits.† This year alone, the job-killing sequester will cost 750,000 people their jobs. We need to invest in America's workers, not pull the rug out from under them.† The "chained" CPI is based on a fraudulent premise - that the CPI is rising faster than the actual cost of living experienced by seniors, veterans and millions of other vulnerable citizens living on meager incomes. In fact, because seniors in particular have limited flexibility and spend a disproportionate share of their income on health care, they tend to experience more rapid inflation than the general population. "Chained" CPI also hits the vulnerable people in the countryópeople with disabilities who get long-term Social Security benefits and women, because they live longer. America elected President Obama to protect us from bad Washington ideas like "chained" CPI, not to advocate for them. Other liberal groups and some of Congress' most liberal members†started ripping the plan on Friday.
The jobs report on Friday was very weak, and one number really stood out: A decline in retail jobs. The sector shed over 20K jobs in March. FRED That's lead analysts to an obvious conclusion, which is that the payroll tax hike is taking a bite into consumers, hurting the retail sector. Of course, the jobs report is noisy so you can't extrapolate from one report to say that the consumer has been kicked in the gut. Anyway, we'll find out more next week when the monthly retail sales report comes out. This preview is from Nomura: Next week all eyes will be on Friday‚Äôs retail sales report. We have argued that it would take time for US households to fully adjust to higher tax burdens in 2013 and it appears that the March retail sales data will show that the adjustment has begun. The headline retail sales number will be ugly - gasoline prices reversed in March, auto sales registered a small decline, and spending on building materials was likely hampered by unusually poor weather conditions. But excluding those categories we forecast a decline in so-called control retail sales, the first decline since October 2012.
White House photo/Pete SouzaObama will release his budget this week, and we already know that he's going to try to stake out a treacherous "middleground" as he attempts to cast himself as a bold centrist, willing to stand apart from leftist Democrats. He'll do so by, reportedly, introducing a Chained CPI, which is a way of cutting Social Security by using a different inflation measure that won't rise as much. Liberals are already livid. Congressman Jerry Nadler ó who is part of the Democratic party's Progressive Caucus ó slammed the reports in a comment made on Friday: †I am quite concerned by reports that the forthcoming White House budget proposal might include chained CPI and other accommodations to Republicans determined to dismantle our social safety net and the progress our nation has made since the New Deal.† I must reiterate that I will never support any reductions in Social Security, Medicare or Medicaid benefits ñ and chained CPI is a direct reduction in Social Security benefits.† Along with my fellow progressives, I will vehemently oppose any such cuts.†††† We cannot lose sight of the facts.† Social Security is one of the bedrocks of our middle class society and is an essential safety net for millions of American seniors and their families.† Millions of Americans rely on Social Security benefits for medical care, food, housing, and other needs.† We cannot force seniors to pay even more to fill the hole left by unnecessary and irresponsible cuts to Social Security. Other, more grassroots leftists, are even more livid. Here's the pseudonymous New Deal Democrat, who writes great economics analysis for The Bonddad Blog, and who used to be part of the Daily Kos community: For many grass-roots democrats, this is a bridge - no, an ocean - too far. Any "democrat" who supports these proposals is never going to get my vote. Period. I will support any primary opponents and I will accept a one term GOPer if necessary to end the political career of any Grand Betrayers, replacing them with a progressive in 2 or 6 years. And I know I am far from alone. In a blog post, Paul Krugman argues that all Obama is doing is trying to appeal to the "Very Serious People" who insist that both parties are to blame for Washington dysfunction. Krugman argues that if anything, Social Security benefits should be increased, given the collapse of other retirement vehicles (401Ks and such) that haven't panned out as well as people thought. Obama's gambit will blow up in his face, he argues, as the political points he thought he could score will not materialize: So whatís this about? The answer, I fear, is that Obama is still trying to win over the Serious People, by showing that heís willing to do what they consider Serious ó which just about always means sticking it to the poor and the middle class. The idea is that they will finally drop the false equivalence, and admit that heís reasonable while the GOP is mean-spirited and crazy. But it wonít happen. Watch the Washington Post editorial page over the next few days. I hereby predict that it will damn Obama with faint praise, saying that while itís a small step in the right direction, of course itís inadequate ó and anyway, Obama is to blame for Republican intransigence, because he could make them accept a Grand Bargain that includes major revenue increases if only he would show Leadership (TM). Oh, and wanna bet that Republicans soon start running ads saying that Obama wants to cut your Social Security? Anyway, we'll know more this week. But while everyone is talking about the "civil war" inside the GOP, watch to see if it's the Democrats who implode over this issue.
APThere's a new interview with George Soros out in the popular Hong Kong newspaper the South China Morning Post. A lot of the interview is about the Chinese development model, Chinese stocks, real estate, etc. There's also an interesting section about gold. Q: What is your view on gold?¬† A: That‚Äôs a complicated question. It has disappointed the public, because it is meant to be the ultimate safe haven. But when the euro was close to collapsing in the last year, actually gold went down, because if people needed to sell something, they could sell gold. Therefore they sold gold. So gold went down together with everything else.¬† Gold was destroyed as a safe haven, proved to be unsafe. Because of the disappointment, most people are reducing their holdings of gold. But the central banks will continue to buy them, so I don‚Äôt expect gold to go down. If you have the prospect of a crisis, you will have occasional flurries or jumps. So gold is very volatile on a day-to-day basis, no trend on a longer-term basis. This explanation for gold's weakness isn't one that we've heard before (most explanations involve the lack of volatility and the increase in US real interest rates). That being said, his point about how gold is not a safe-haven is spot on. During overall weakness, when central banks are trying to push down real interest rates, gold seems to benefit. But in a real panic, people sell gold to raise cash. Read the full SCMP interview here --&gt;
Another milestone. Bitcoin above $155. From Clarkmoody.com: Clarkmoody.com
There's a lot of debate about the job and economic prospects for the current generation of college graduates. The fact that student debt has ballooned so much only exacerbates the tension of whether graduates will be able to find good jobs in a timely manner. Despite all this, the latest jobs report confirms that folks with a college degree (red line) have an unemployment rate far lower than those who don't have one (blue line). FRED That being said, it is nice to see that the unemployment rate for those without a college degree took a nice leg down in March, dropping from 7.9 percent to 7.6 percent. In this chart, we zoom in on the blue line above, and we made it a bar chart so you can clearly see the change each month. FRED As you can see, it's been a good several months for the population that didn't go to college, though the job prospects for this group lag significantly behind those of people who did graduate.
Medill DC / FlickrOn Friday, the government said that just 88,000 jobs were created in March, a number that came in well below expectations. And yet the unemployment rate fell again, with big drops seen in some key demographics. That means the unemployment rate is marching ever closer to levels where the Fed has indicated it might begin to consider tightening. According to Morgan Stanley's chief economist Vincent Reinhart, this represents the Fed's #1 fear. ...the Fedís chief fear will be that market participants will expect policy tightening to come sooner and more sharply than is consistent with sustaining the economic expansion.† All the talk about tapering off, or even ending, QE has been careful to be conditional on the outlook.† If our economic forecast unfolds and the remainder of the first half proves challenging, talk of tapering off will, well, taper off.† Against that backdrop, we think the Fed will continue to add $85 billion of securities per month to its balance sheet over the course of 2013.† Only as the expansion gets steam will the pace of QE be moderated.††† Of more pressing concern for the Fed is the inconvenient fact that the unemployment rate keeps dropping.† When the Fed first set the Evans threshold on the unemployment rate at 6-1/2 percent, it must not have envisioned the ongoing exit of workers from the labor market.† While the words of the FOMC statement reassure that policy makers will look at a wide array of information, ìÖincluding additional measures of labor market conditions,î it will be difficult to wean market participants away from the notion that 6-1/2 is a hard trigger for raising the policy rate.† Fed officials have already tried to put white space between their policy decision and that number, and we look for them to do so increasingly.
