Russian Emergency Ministry Here's the meteor trail of a fireball that exploded over Russia in February.Shortly before 8 p.m. EST Twitter began lighting up with reports of a bright streak in the sky, which many believe was a meteor.¬† Bloomberg News tweeted: "Reports of a possible seen on U.S. Eastern Seaboard; sightings from upstate New York to northern Virginia." Eyewitnesses say the meteor was bright green or blue in color, according to NBC Washington. ¬† We haven't seen any visual confirmation of the meteor yet, but anyone who has photo or video of the observed bright streak can email dspector@businessinsider.com and we'll share it here.¬† This picture¬†of meteor seen over Maryland seems to be circling Twitter, but a reader tipped us off that it was indeed a fake that pops up as "Belize Meteor" on Google images.¬† The reports come a little more than one month after a meteor exploded over Chelyabinsk Russia, creating a shockwave that blew out windows and injured nearly 1,500 people, mostly from flying shards of glass.¬†
The Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Commission has released the latest report on Traffic Volume Trends, data through January. Travel on all roads and streets changed by 0.5% (1.2 billion vehicle miles) for January 2013 as compared with January 2012. The 12-month moving average of miles driven increased only 0.24% from January a year ago (PDF report). And the civilian population-adjusted data (age 16-and-over) has set yet another post-financial crisis low. Here is a chart that illustrates this data series from its inception in 1970. I'm plotting the "Moving 12-Month Total on ALL Roads," as the DOT terms it. See Figure 1 in the PDF report, which charts the data from 1987. My start date is 1971 because I'm incorporating all the available data from the DOT spreadsheets. ¬† ¬† ¬† The rolling 12-month miles driven contracted from its all-time high for 39 months during the stagflation of the late 1970s to early 1980s, a double-dip recession era. The most recent decline has lasted for 62 months and counting ‚Äî a new record, but the trough to date was in November 2011, 48 months from the all-time high. Total Miles Driven, however, is one of those metrics that should be adjusted for population growth to provide the most revealing analysis, especially if we're trying to understand the historical context. We can do a quick adjustment of the data using an appropriate population group as the deflator. I use the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Civilian Noninstitutional Population Age 16 and Over (FRED series CNP16OV). The next chart incorporates that adjustment with the growth shown on the vertical axis as the percent change from 1971. ¬† ¬† Clearly, when we adjust for population growth, the Miles-Driven metric takes on a much darker look. The nominal 39-month dip that began in May 1979 grows to 61 months, slightly more than five years. The trough was a 6% decline from the previous peak. The population-adjusted all-time high dates from June 2005. That's 90 months ‚Äî over seven years ago. The latest data is 8.59% below the 2005 peak, a new post-Financial Crisis low. Our adjusted miles driven based on the 16-and-older age cohort is about where we were as a nation in March of 1995. Here is a closer look at the series since 2000, which gives a better look at the past year -- essentially a flatline that rolled over since the middle of 2012. ¬† ¬† About that Population Adjustment... I've frequently been asked why I use the CNP16OV data for the population adjustment, often with the suggestion that it would make more sense to limit the population to licensed drivers. For openers, I don't know of a valid source for the driver-licensed population. Moreover, the correlation between license holders and actual drivers is not a reliable one. Many license holders in households do not drive, especially in their older years. According to Census Bureau data on gasoline sales (courtesy of Harry Dent's research on demand curves), dollars spent on gasoline peaks for people in their late 40s and falls off rather quickly after that. In fact, I think there's a good case for using the Census Bureau's mid-month estimates of total population (POPTHM) rather than civilians age 16 and over for the population adjustment. The reason is that a portion of total miles driven is specifically to support children's needs (day care, schools, children's activities, etc.) and the needs of elders who might have licenses but no longer drive. Ultimately the division of miles driven by either population group (CNP16OV or POPTHM), while not a perfect match with drivers, is a consistent and relevant metric for evaluating economic growth. Here is the same population-adjusted chart, this time with the total population for the adjustment. In the total-population adjusted version the latest data point of -7.18% is not far off the post-recession low of -7.30% in late 2011. ¬† ¬† What about the impact of volatile gasoline prices? How much of a factor has that been in the trend? I'll close with an overlay of the population-adjusted miles driven and gasoline prices since the early 1990s. ¬† ¬† As is readily apparent, the correlation is fairly weak over the entire timeframe (+0.31). And, despite the volatility in gasoline prices since the onset of the Great Recession, the correlation since December 2007 has been even weaker (-0.24). There are profound behavioral issues apart from gasoline prices that are influencing miles driven. These would include the demographics of an aging population in which older people drive less, continuing high unemployment, and the ever-growing ability to work remote in the era of the Internet. One particularly interesting trend was highlighted in a study last year on "Transportation and the New Generation" by the Frontier Group. The DOT "miles driven" metric is also interesting to study in the context of gasoline volume sales, which I also update monthly:
Unfortunately, you'd be wrong. In 1998, there was a firm called Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM, as it is commonly referred to today), staffed by the best of the best, including one of the very top bond traders that Wall Street ever produced as well as two future Nobel laureates. LTCM boasted of its use of complex models that were supposed to generate outsized returns while operating with a risk-minimizing profile that, mathematically, was only supposed to experience severe losses so infrequently that the periods between them would be measured in the thousands of years. Unfortunately for LTCM, their models badly underestimated real risks, and their leverage was such that their original $1 billion in capital turned into total losses of $4.6 billion in a little over four years, nearly dragging down the entire financial system in the process. While this experience has much to teach us in the way of market risk, hubris, and the dangers of leverage, it really needs to be understood in terms of the rise of moral hazard on Wall Street.¬† The main lesson that Wall Street seems to have learned from the LTCM disaster is that if the wipe-out was big enough, the Federal Reserve would swoop in and rescue things.¬† Message received: Go big or go home.¬† Take on as much risk as possible, secure in the knowledge that if things got bad enough, the Fed would simply print up what was necessary to make all the players whole again, with perhaps one core player or institution thrown under the bus for the sake of appearances.¬† Fast forward to 2008, and that exact experience was replicated perfectly, thereby reinforcing Wall Street's perception that it is best rewarded by chasing big risks and big returns. And if things didn't go as hoped, the good ol' Fed would always be there to push the Reset button. Since nobody of consequence went to prison after the overt fraud and excesses of the housing bubble were revealed, and no bank had to give back a single penny of their ill-gotten and outlandish profits related to such behaviors, one does not have to be a genius to guess what happened next. Banks took the taxpayer funds, paid themselves gigantic bonuses, and immediately began taking on huge new risks. I mean, why not?¬† If you had a rich uncle that promised to let you keep any gains from your trading portfolio but would absorb any losses you might incur, you'd soon be swinging for the fences like a pro. This is why today, instead of having been reduced, financial risks loom larger than ever. It's why the next downturn will be just as bad ‚Äì if not worse ‚Äì than the last one. Nothing has been learned, and nothing has been changed. The most basic of human behaviors, the tendency towards moral hazard (so well understood by the insurance industry) has been completely overlooked by the Fed.¬† Once again, that institution, entrusted with so much, has been exposed as being rather intellectually shallow, or at least devoid of common sense. I'll leave you with this:¬† The very same Fed that could not and did not see that a housing bubble was forming is now equally complacent about corporate bond yields touching all-time record lows across the entire spectrum, right down to CCC junk that sits one skinny notch above default.¬† Stocks are for show, but bonds are for dough ‚Äì and with bonds now priced for perfection if not for something even better, there's no room for error.¬† Even the slightest hiccup ‚Äì say, one brought about by a renewed global slump as is already underway in Europe and Japan ‚Äì will cause massive losses to bond portfolios, and we will, yet one more time, be reminded that indeed there is nothing new under the sun.¬† Central banks cannot print us all back to prosperity, and insolvency cannot be cured with liquidity.¬† All that remains is to assign the losses to someone. And right now there are plenty of very well-connected and powerful individuals working feverishly to assure that those losses do not fall upon them. That leaves you and me, otherwise known as 'taxpayers'. And 'bank account holders'. Oh, yeah ‚Äì and 'Muppets.' What the Fed, in cahoots with other central banks, has managed to engineer is a spectacular rise in the price of financial assets.¬† Stocks, bonds, and all of their associated brethren such as options, futures, and derivatives have all been magically elevated. To put this into context, not only are stocks at nominal all-time highs, but bonds are too.¬† Bonds, however, are very different from stocks, and the fact that they are also at all-time highs should really be viewed with much more concern. The bond market is enormous and dwarfs the equity markets by over 2 to 1, or 3 to 1 if you include non-securitized loans in the mix:  (Source) But just looking at traditional bonds, what we have here is a situation where over $100 trillion in bonds are now historically badly overpriced.¬† That's what ‚Äúrecord territory‚Äù means to me, at any rate.¬† For every 1% loss on that portfolio, more than a trillion dollars will be lost. While the value of stocks has to be carefully adjusted for inflation to determine if all-time highs have been reached (not yet, by the way), bonds are priced according to the yield they offer.¬† The higher the price, the lower the yield.¬† The yield of a bond is supposed to compensate you for the risks involved, which include inflation, default, and time.¬†¬† The worse the prospect, the higher inflation, and the longer the time to maturity the higher the yield will be.¬† So how important is it that bonds are now yielding record lows?¬† This is perhaps the single most important factor in the financial landscape right now, because it means either one of two things:¬† (1) the risks of default and inflation are at all time lows, or (2) bond buyers are not being adequately compensated for risk. Here's the data for corporate bonds, but sovereign bonds are just as lofty, and the lack of yield in those securities explains the grasping for yield in corporate bonds: Mar 13, 2013 March 13 (IFR) - The yield-to-worst in the US high-yield bond market has fallen to a record low average of 5.56% this week, as investors flock to higher-yielding but riskier products. With interest rates hovering around record lows, investors have found themselves rushing down the credit ladder in search of¬†bonds¬†offering more return - and more risk. CCC rated¬†bonds¬†- the riskiest investments at the very bottom of the credit spectrum, just one notch above default level - have rallied the most. "It's definitely risk-on behavior, where you are trying to get exposure to the most yield possible," said Drew Mogavero, head of US high-yield trading at Barclays. "The safer segments of the market, BBs, have rallied to pretty low-yielding levels," he said. "So people are looking out to CCCs and other higher-yielding names." Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. As investor demand has driven up prices, yields have tumbled. Yield-to-worst indicates the lowest potential yield on a bond without the issuer defaulting. Lower All Over Broken down by ratings, the yield-to-worst on the Barclays Double B index is also at its lowest ever (4.24%), as is the level on the Triple C index (7.43%). The only segment of the market that didn't close at a record low on Tuesday was the Single B index, which is 5.46% versus the record low of 5.39% set on January 24 Again, these are record lows as in never-before-in-all-of-time records.¬† To think that the Fed has all of this under control, that it can steer the consequences of an entire world of investment and speculation decisions to a normal and graceful ending, requires far more faith than I can muster. The very idea that the worst-of-the-worst credit risks in the corporate world are now yielding less than 6% is even more absurd than anything that I observed during the height of the housing bubbles.¬† Even the tiniest hiccup will wipe out the holders of those bonds, leaving them with, at best, pennies on the dollar. Let me be very clear here: What I see now in the bond market is at least an order of magnitude riskier than anything I saw in the housing bubble, and if/when it pops, the effects will be far, far worse. In Part II: How to Survive the Mother of All Bubble Burstings: A Collapse of the Bond Market, we'll identify the most significant warning signals of market instability, including the growth in derivatives, the reemergence of synthetic CDOs, and the widespread overpricing of debt ranging from sovereign to junk securities. With these risks come huge implications for those with money in the financial markets.¬† What should we be doing to protect ourselves?¬† How do we avoid the next downturn?¬† What strategies make sense given what we know and where we are in this story? Click here to read Part II of this report (free executive summary; enrollment required for full access).
ShutterstockSpring is finally here, and warm weather should be right around the corner. From rainy-day accessories to trendy footwear, we've come up with 10 items every guy should add to his wardrobe for the season.
Earlier this month, we brought you the history of the U.S. dollar's incredible comeback. Now, it seems, the entire world has caught on. According to this chart from Jason Goepfert ‚Äî aka SentimenTrader ‚Äî we hit a record number of long-USD positions this week: 54,000. sentimenTrader This confirms BAML's Ralph Preusser's and Athanasios Vamvakidis' recent observation that people are "buying America" again thanks to stronger housing and production data. It also arguably refutes those who argue the Fed is weakening the dollar's value by extending its bond-buying program.¬† The dollar settled slightly lower against the Euro Friday on renewed hopes of a Cyprus deal.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Value Trade Is Working (BMO Capital Markets) In a new report Brian Belski writes that value strategies outperform when the economy is improving, the market is up, and earnings are growing like right now.¬† "According to our analysis, during periods of double-digit S&amp;P 500 earnings growth, value outperforms growth by roughly 2.1%. In addition, in years where earnings growth rates increase from the prior year and the S&amp;P 500 delivers single-digit gains, value outperforms growth by an average of 8%. In terms of economic growth, when GDP improves from the prior year, value outperforms growth by an average of 3.5%. When all three of these conditions are met ‚Äì which is how we expect 2013 to unfold ‚Äì value outperforms growth by nearly 10%. "From our perspective, investors should not solely focus on stocks with battered prices when searching for value opportunities. Rather, the focus should be on areas within the market with attractive valuations and a solid fundamental backdrop in the form of consistent earnings growth and business operating performance." Mutual Funds Are Ignoring A Large Investor Pool (Advisor One) Mutual funds are ignoring a large and growing investor pool ‚Äì Gen Y, which accounts for 10 percent of investors. A recent study by Cogent Research showed that most young investors don't have enough of an understanding about how mutual funds work or the companies themselves. Mutual funds need to reach out and have more of a presence on social media.  SEC Charges Wall Street 2 Actor Thomas Belesis With Fraud (Business Insider) The SEC has charged CEO of brokerage firm John Thomas Financial and Wall Street 2 actor, Thomas Belesis, with fraud. Hedge fund manager George Jaresky has also been charged. "An investigation by the SEC‚Äôs Enforcement Division found that George R. Jarkesy Jr., worked closely with Thomas Belesis to launch two hedge funds that raised $30 million from investors. Jarkesy and his firm John Thomas Capital Management (since renamed Patriot28 LLC) inflated valuations of the funds‚Äô assets, causing the value of investors‚Äô shares to be overstated and his management and incentive fees to be increased.¬† "Jarkesy, a frequent media commentator and radio talk show host, also lied to investors about the identity of the funds‚Äô auditor and prime broker. Meanwhile, although they shared the same ‚ÄúJohn Thomas‚Äù brand name, Jarkesy‚Äôs firm and Belesis‚Äô firm John Thomas Financial were portrayed as wholly independent."  Proof That You're A Bad Investor (BlackRock) A study by Blackrock via Mebane Faber shows that investors underperform both the stock market and inflation. "Amidst difficult financial times, emotional instincts often drive investors to take actions that make no rational sense but make perfect emotional sense," wrote BlackRock. "Psychological factors such as fear often translate into poor timing of buys and sells." BlackRock A Startup That Tries To Remove Bias From The Financial Services Industry (Bloomberg) Jemstep is an online investment advisor that tries to remove the bias in the financial services industry. President Simon Roy told Bloomberg, "The incentive structure under which brokers operate is designed to serve the interests of institutions, not the interest of investors. ...Our advice is objective and untainted by any third-party influence." Jemstep allows investors to get "automated advice" based on their retirement-account data.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Value Trade Is Working (BMO Capital Markets) In a new report Brian Belski writes that value strategies outperform when the economy is improving, the market is up, and earnings are growing like right now.¬† "According to our analysis, during periods of double-digit S&amp;P 500 earnings growth, value outperforms growth by roughly 2.1%. In addition, in years where earnings growth rates increase from the prior year and the S&amp;P 500 delivers single-digit gains, value outperforms growth by an average of 8%. In terms of economic growth, when GDP improves from the prior year, value outperforms growth by an average of 3.5%. When all three of these conditions are met ‚Äì which is how we expect 2013 to unfold ‚Äì value outperforms growth by nearly 10%. "From our perspective, investors should not solely focus on stocks with battered prices when searching for value opportunities. Rather, the focus should be on areas within the market with attractive valuations and a solid fundamental backdrop in the form of consistent earnings growth and business operating performance." Mutual Funds Are Ignoring A Large Investor Pool (Advisor One) Mutual funds are ignoring a large and growing investor pool ‚Äì Gen Y, which accounts for 10 percent of investors. A recent study by Cogent Research showed that most young investors don't have enough of an understanding about how mutual funds work or the companies themselves. Mutual funds need to reach out and have more of a presence on social media.  SEC Charges Wall Street 2 Actor Thomas Belesis With Fraud (Business Insider) The SEC has charged CEO of brokerage firm John Thomas Financial and Wall Street 2 actor, Thomas Belesis, with fraud. Hedge fund manager George Jaresky has also been charged. "An investigation by the SEC‚Äôs Enforcement Division found that George R. Jarkesy Jr., worked closely with Thomas Belesis to launch two hedge funds that raised $30 million from investors. Jarkesy and his firm John Thomas Capital Management (since renamed Patriot28 LLC) inflated valuations of the funds‚Äô assets, causing the value of investors‚Äô shares to be overstated and his management and incentive fees to be increased.¬† "Jarkesy, a frequent media commentator and radio talk show host, also lied to investors about the identity of the funds‚Äô auditor and prime broker. Meanwhile, although they shared the same ‚ÄúJohn Thomas‚Äù brand name, Jarkesy‚Äôs firm and Belesis‚Äô firm John Thomas Financial were portrayed as wholly independent."  Proof That You're A Bad Investor (BlackRock) A study by Blackrock via Mebane Faber shows that investors underperform both the stock market and inflation. "Amidst difficult financial times, emotional instincts often drive investors to take actions that make no rational sense but make perfect emotional sense," wrote BlackRock. "Psychological factors such as fear often translate into poor timing of buys and sells." BlackRock A Startup That Tries To Remove Bias From The Financial Services Industry (Bloomberg) Jemstep is an online investment advisor that tries to remove the bias in the financial services industry. President Simon Roy told Bloomberg, "The incentive structure under which brokers operate is designed to serve the interests of institutions, not the interest of investors. ...Our advice is objective and untainted by any third-party influence." Jemstep allows investors to get "automated advice" based on their retirement-account data.

Wikimedia/Wanetta AyersInvestor relations trade publication IR Magazine had its big awards dinner last night and JPMorgan Chase's IR deparment got one for the way it handled the "London Whale" trade.† The Wall Street Journal's Anton Troianovski†reports:† "J.P. Morgan Chase is winning for its handling of the $6.2 billion trading loss by the London Whale last year," the eventís host, CNN anchor Ali Velshi, said. ìI would say thatís what you call making lemonade out of lemons.î Kathy Hu, an executive director in J.P. Morganís investor relations department, accepted the award and quipped: ìCan I just say, ëCrisis? What crisis?íî JPMorgan's stock is up more than 9 percent since those first media reports about the "London Whale" surfaced in April 2012.
Reuters reports that the Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers will meet on Sunday in Brussels to discuss the Cyprus situation. Eurogroup finance ministers to meet Sunday in Brussels, Euro Zone sources tell Reuters #breaking One of the ideas back on the table is a controversial levy on deposits ‚Äì but this time around, it appears that a levy on only uninsured depositors, those with more than 100,000 euros in their bank accounts, is being proposed. Tomorrow, the Cypriot parliament will vote on the levy proposal. Following the vote, Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades and other party leaders will travel to Brussels, reports Cypriot state-run broadcaster CYBC (via Bloomberg). It's still unclear how Cyprus plans to raise its share of the bailout contribution. If it's done entirely through levies on uninsured depositors, it's going to have to be pretty substantial.
Is that a pulse in shares of Apple? A trader IMs us to note that shares of Apple just closed above their 50-day moving average (the blue line) for the first time since October. These moving averages are watched by technical traders, and crossing over them is seen as a sign of momentum in either direction. Stockcharts.com
Flickr / jurek d.Nicosia, CyprusIt was a quiet end to the week. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,512, +90.5 pts, +0.6 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,556, +11.0 pts, +0.7 percentNASDAQ: 3,245, +22.4 pts, +0.7 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Instagram/rqphotographyAround 2006 my friend Erik acquired¬†Chess.com. It was previously a site selling chess learning software. The company went bankrupt and he bought the assets for pennies on the dollar. We had worked together on a few projects, so when it came time to fund his new business, he offered me the chance to buy a $25k block of equity. I was ready to jump at the opportunity but lawyers informed me that since I was not an¬†accredited investor, it wasn‚Äôt going to happen.¬† To qualify as an¬†accredited¬†investor, you need to make over $200,000 per year, or have a net worth of $1 m+. So I couldn‚Äôt invest, even though I had the $25k (which is not usually the case). Today those original blocks of equity trade on secondary markets for around $500k according to Erik. Does that burn? Yeah, sometimes it does. But it‚Äôs also the reason I‚Äôm so excited about equity crowdfunding. It‚Äôs going to open up countless opportunities for business people and investors. That‚Äôs if it‚Äôs done right (more on that¬†here). What‚Äôs disturbing to me about the SEC‚Äôs accredited investor rules is how elitist the whole thing is. The laws are supposedly designed to protect investors but it‚Äôs more about protecting the upper crust and Wall St. Reserving certain privileges for the wealthy under the guise of shielding investors. Kind of like how landowner laws have favored elites for centuries. What about scams? Well, risk is unavoidable, in any market. Why are we allowed to buy shady pink sheet stocks but not invest in promising startups? There‚Äôs no good reason to forbid small investors from providing startup capital. It hampers innovation and growth while reinforcing the financial oligarchy. Most people assume the laws, even if flawed, are well-intentioned. I don‚Äôt believe that but I guess it doesn‚Äôt really matter. Equity crowdfunding is coming and that‚Äôs a good thing. It‚Äôll take the Feds a while to get workable regulation in place but that‚Äôs par for the course. Adam Sharp writes about equity crowdfunding at Crowdfundsurfer.com.
BlackRock via YouTubeRuss KoesterichU.S. stocks are just a few points from their all-time highs. In the past when they were at these levels, they eventually tumbled.¬† And after the fact, people characterized them as asset bubbles that burst. So, are stocks in a bubble now? BlackRock's Russ Koesterich tackles this question in a brief post on the iSharesBlog. He's short answer is no.¬† And he provides three quick reasons: But having said that, Koesterich doesn't think stocks are obviously cheap either.¬† Specifically, he notes that the Shiller PE ‚Äî the price divided by 10 year average earnings ‚Äî is a bit high.¬† As such, returns are likely to be lower. "This suggests that while US stocks may still outperform bonds, further gains are likely to be more muted and returns over the long term are unlikely to be in double-digit territory,"¬†writes Koesterich. Read more at iSharesBlog.com.
While the entire world has been waiting to see what the Cypriot government will do about a proposed one-time levy on bank accounts, the Russian oligarchs who base their companies (and shell companies) on the island say they've already moved their cash out. From Reuters: "You must be out of your mind!" snapped tycoon Igor Zyuzin, main owner of New York-listed coal-to-steel group Mechel, as he dismissed a suggestion this week that the financial meltdown in Cyprus posed a risk to his interests. If Zyuzin isn't enough, there's also Mikhail Fridman, the #50 richest man in the world according to Bloomberg's Billionaire Index. Yesterday he scored a major payday selling his part of oil company TNK-BP to Russian state oil firm Rosneft, netting $5.1 billion. Part of his Fridman's investment firm, Alfa Group, is based in Cyprus. The entity is called Alfa Capital Holdings, and here's what's been on their website all week. Alfa Capital Holdings According to Reuters, now that the oligarchs have moved out, its likely that upper middle class/entrepreneur types will feel most of the pain if the Cyprus tax is enacted. Part of that is because there's no penalty to move money out of Cyprus. There's no tax on transferring shares of a Cyprus company and there's no withholding tax charged on dividends moving from a Cypriot company to its EU parent company. So Russian oligarchs have entities in Cyprus and in other tax havens as well (of course). Take Alisher Usmanov for instance, the richest man in Russia and an early investor in Facebook. He owns USM Steel &amp; Mining Group Limited (formerly known as Gallagher Holdings) based in Cyprus. He also has a British Virgin Islands holdings company USM Holdings, according to Bloomberg. Cyprus has no capital gains tax and holding companies are not subject to any withholding tax on dividends, but there's is a 10 percent tax on income, whereas there's no corporate income tax in the British Virgin Islands.¬† You do the math.
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz has made it clear that his company supports same-sex marriage, and at the coffee titan's annual meeting in Seattle, he had a heated exchange with a shareholder who criticized that stance, Gabriel Spitzer at KPLU reported. It stemmed from the National Organization for Marriage's decision to boycott Starbucks after the company endorsed a same-sex marriage bill in Washington state. Shareholder Tom Strobhar, who,¬†according to The Huffington Post, is the¬†founder of the anti-abortion, anti-gay marriage¬†Corporate Morality Action Center, was not happy about the boycott.  He said that it affected Starbucks' bottom line. ‚ÄúIn the first full quarter after this boycott was announced, our sales and our earnings ‚Äî shall we say politely ‚Äî were a bit disappointing,‚Äù said Strobhar. Schultz reportedly bristled, and said that it was about respecting diversity, not the bottom line. "It is not an economic decision," he said. "The lens in which we are making that decision is through the lens of our people. We employ over 200,000 people in this company, and we want to embrace diversity." The crowd cheered and applauded. Then, the CEO fired a broadside. ‚ÄúIf you feel, respectfully, that you can get a higher return than the 38 percent you got last year, it‚Äôs a free country. You can sell your shares of Starbucks and buy shares in another company. Thank you very much,‚Äù said Schultz. Watch the video of Schultz's response below ‚Äî¬†from the Puget Sound Business Journal: ¬†
If you're in favor of increased oil and gas production in the U.S., here's a nice problem to have: production keeps outpacing the Energy Department's estimates. Each year, the Energy Information Administration releases tables showing how its forecasts compared to actual results. For the past four years, the EIA's Annual Energy Outlooks have fallen modestly short for oil and way short for natural gas.¬† Here are the charts. Each number represents the given year's AEO (left column) for each of the 16 years it covers. Oil: Starting with the AEO for 2009, projections have been short an average of -1.6 percent: EIA And for natural gas, they've been short an average of -4.9 percent ‚Äî with projections for 2011 off as much as 15.4 percent: EIA As a result of this production spike, the EIA's price projections for natural gas (though not oil) were also off, by an average of 7.4 percent since 2009.¬†
Yesterday, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve published its latest report on state coincident indicators, which measures economic activity growth on a rolling three month basis. Through January 2013, 41 out of 50 states were showing increasing levels of activity. However, this wasn't always the case. During the peak of the financial crisis in spring of 2009, most states were growing at a horrific negative rate. With each report, the Philly Fed publishes a color coded map. And in April 2009, it was blood stained red, which meant most states were contracting at faster than a 1 percent rate. From the Fed in April 2009: In the past month, the indexes increased in three states, decreased in 45, and were unchanged in the other two, for a one-month diffusion index of -84. Over the past three months, the indexes decreased in all 50 states, for a three-month diffusion index of -100. For comparison purposes, the Philadelphia Fed developed a similar coincident index for the entire United States. The Philadelphia Fed‚Äôs U.S. index fell 0.4 percent in April and 1.4 percent over the past three months. This is ugly: Philly FedApril 2009, State Coincident Indexes
APSenator Elizabeth Warren is writing her 10th book, says the Washington Post, and it will be called 'Rigged'. The Harvard Law professor turned Massachusetts politician will be writing about her time spent on the Hill after the financial crisis chairing Congressional oversight panels and starting the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. From WaPo: ‚ÄúThe title refers to how the economic system is too often rigged against families that work hard and play by the rules. The story is national, but it‚Äôs also personal. These are issues close to my heart,‚Äù said Warren... We'll be waiting.
Hamm is splitting with his second wife, Sue Ann Hamm, after he allegedly had an affair. If the couple doesn't have a prenup¬†‚Äî and it's not known if they do¬†‚Äî she could wind up with half of his 68 percent stake in the company, currently worth $11.2 billion, according to Reuters. That could put Hamm ahead of Rupert Murdoch, who paid a record $1.7 billion in his divorce settlement with ex-wife Anna. They aren't the only uber-wealthy figures who have paid out massive divorce settlements.
AP The latest eurozone crisis comes down to controversy over bailing out a Cypriot banking system that is flooded with Russian black money. The EU-proposed "haircut" solution ‚Äî with a 9.9 percent levy on large deposits in Cyprus ‚Äî received zero votes in Cyprus' parliament and Russian president Vladimir Putin called it "unjust, unprofessional and dangerous." Attempts to find a compromise have foundered. In any case, it is clear that powerful people in Russia want to preserve the ability to use Cyprus as a tax haven, alleged money-laundering vehicle, and backdoor into the eurozone. Just look at what happened to Sergei Magnitsky, the Moscow-based lawyer who was imprisoned and died mysteriously in jail after calling attention to Russian corruption, including alleged money-laundering in Cyprus. Magnitsky had been working for Hermitage Capital, a fund managed by American Bill Browder. After Hermitage's offices were raided in 2007, Magnitsky began investigating and later testified that he had uncovered a huge scam by top police officials to embezzle $230 million in taxes from money that Hermitage Fund companies had paid in 2006. Magnitsky alleged that the corrupt cops had used corporate seals and documents seized in the raid on Hermitage's Moscow office and set up fake companies under the same names, which then received a full tax rebate. Hermitage said that some $31 million of that money was then moved out of Russia using five Cypriot banks: Alpha Bank, Cyprus Popular Bank, FBME Bank, Privatbank International and Komercbanka. The story quickly turned tragic. In November 2008, Magnitsky himself was charged with tax evasion and taken to prison. Kept in Moscow's notorious pre-trial prisons, Magnitsky¬†unexpectedly died in November 2009. His death was originally attributed to a an abdominal membrane rupture¬†before officials changed that to a heart attack. Magnitsky is one of four witnesses in the case who have died in mysterious circumstances. While an official investigation into his death in 2009 yielded little results, last year a new report, supported by Russia's Presidential human rights council, found that police torture appeared to have contributed to Magnitsky's death. Council member and human rights defender Valery Borshchyov told Interfax, ‚ÄúIt turns out that 8 prison employees were beating one prisoner.‚Äù Despite this ruling and further international pressure, the Kremlin has shown remarkable hostility to calls to investigate Magnitsky's death and the tax fraud itself. This week, an official probe into Magnitsky's death was cancelled ‚Äî officials said that no crime was committed. Magnitsky himself remains on trail for fraud, even though he is dead. After Browder successfully lobbied the US government to pursue what became known as the "Magnitsky Act" ‚Äî an act that proposed severe restrictions on Russian national suspected of involvement in the tax corruption case and others involved in human rights abuses ‚Äî the Russian government swiftly retaliated with a law banning the adoption of Russian orphans by US families. The Russian response to Magnitsky has been tied in to another problem ‚Äî the Kremlin is widely seen as condoning fraud and money-laundering. Last month retiring Bank of¬†Russia¬†chairman Sergei Ignatyev said that 2.5 percent national income was illegally siphoned abroad last year, probably by "one well organized group of people". Reuters notes that many of observers viewed Ignatyev's comments as evidence of "Kremlin capitalism". Russia had been working hard to avoid an EU-wide Magnitsky Act, which would have much wider economic repercussions than the US Magnitsky Act. However, as Ben Aris writes at Business New Europe, the proposed deposit tax on Cyprus bank accounts was seen as "the financial equivalent of the Magnitsky bill as far as the Kremlin is concerned". Browder has already successfully lobbied Cyprus to investigate the money in their own banks. As of December last year, Cyprus's anti-money-laundering unit confirmed they had launched an investigation based on information given to them by Hermitage Capital. Other European countries have followed suite and launched a joint probe. ‚ÄúThis isn‚Äôt just an abstract notion of money laundering,‚Äù Browder told the Toronto Star this week. ‚ÄúThe Magnitsky case is a real-life example of something that everybody knows is going on. Right now, the Europeans are going to open the bank records on the case, so we‚Äôll see how it plays out.‚Äù This also explains why a potential Russian bailout of Cyprus would be so controversial. To its detractors, Russia and Kremlin has already shown remarkable legal and political support for those allegedly behind massive tax fraud and corruption. If Russia did bail out Cyprus, they would appear to be giving them financial support as well.
The latest technology for removing salt from seawater, developed by Lockheed Martin, will be a game-changer for the industry, according to Ray O. Johnson, senior vice president and chief technology officer of the jet and weapons manufacturer. Desalination technology is used in regions of the world, particularly developing countries, where fresh water is not available. Water from oceans or rivers is diverted into treatment plants where the salt is removed and clean drinking water is produced through a process called reverse osmosis. Imagine a tank with seawater on one side and pure water on the other, separated by a filter with billions of tiny holes. Lots of pressure on the salty side pushes water through faster than the salt, so fresh water comes out the other end. The problem is that current filters use plastic polymers that use an immense amount of energy (800 to 1,000 pounds per square inch of pressure) to push water through. Lockheed has developed a special material that doesn't need as much energy to drag water through the filter. en.wikipedia.orgGraphene is a substance made of pure carbon. Carbon atoms are arranged in a regular hexagonal or honeycomb pattern in a one-atom thick sheet.This special material is a film of a special structure of carbon, a honeycomb lattice called graphene. "Graphene is pure carbon that is made in a hot oven on top of a copper sheet¬†in a vacuum,"¬†John Stetson, the chief technologist at Lockheed for this initiative explained to¬†Business Insider.¬†"Methane gas is put into the vacuum and the methane changes¬†into a single film of carbon atoms all linked together tightly like¬†chickenwire (at the atomic level) 1,000 times stronger than steel and tolerant¬†of temperature, pressure and pH." The sheet is dotted with holes that are one nanometer or less. These holes between carbon atoms trap the salt and other impurities. Graphene researchers won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2010 for developing the wonder-material. In addition, the film is super thin ‚Äî just a single atom thick ‚Äî so that the water simply "pops through the very, very small holes that we make in the graphene and leaves the salt behind," said Stetson. Lockheed anticipates that their filters will be able to provide clean drinking water "at a fraction of the cost of industry-standard reverse osmosis systems," their press release says. Water-poor regions of the world will be the first to benefit. The perforated graphene is aptly called Perforene. Lockheed has the U.S. Patent on this technology and is currently pumping out "pretty big quantities of it" at Lockheed's advanced technology center in Palo Alto, California, according to Stetson. The Perforene has a smoky grey-color film that is translucent, even though its carbon, because it is so thin. It's also about 1,000 times stronger than steel, but still has a permeability that is about 100 times greater than the best competitive membrane out in the market, said Stetson. Perforene isn't a game-changer, yet. Lockheed is still in the prototype stage. One challenge is figuring out how to scale up production. Graphene is cheap but it's very delicate because of its thinness, also making it difficult to transfer. Stetson says Lockheed is targeting to have a prototype to test in a reverse osmosis plant by 2014 or 2015, where they would simply be able to "plug in" the Perforene to replace the existing filter. The great news is that this technology is not just limited to desalination plants. It can potentially be used for pharmaceutical filtration, dialysis, and gas separation, to a name a few other uses. The possibilities are endless.
ContinentalReuters' Brian Grow and Joshua Schneyer broke the news yesterday that oil tycoon Harold Hamm is facing a catastrophic divorce settlement after his wife accused him of infidelity. It could be the most expensive divorce in history. Forbes ranks Hamm as the 35th-richest person in the country, with a net worth of $11.3 billion. His company, Continental Resources, owns 1 million acres in North Dakota's Bakken oil field, the shale play that has helped U.S. oil production rise to levels unseen in decades. Continental says it does not anticipate any settlement would have a material impact on the company.¬† But Grow and Schneyer write that a judge could force Hamm to divide his 68 percent controlling stake in the company. They also talked to legal experts who said the final figure could rival Rupert Murdoch's unprecedented $1.7 billion settlement with his estranged wife. Whatever the outcome, the story is a tragic chapter for a man who ranked 5th on our "Horatio Alger Index" of most impressive American rags-to-riches stories. We wanted to portray the full life-story of a man who went from pumping gas at a corner store to becoming one of the most influential people in the energy industry.
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesCypriots are not happy about the bank bailout deal being foisted upon them by their government and its EU counterparts. The original deal included a controversial "tax" on deposits in Cypriot banks ñ meaning everyone with a bank account would have to hand a certain percentage of its savings over to the government in order to pay for the bailout. The deal didn't pass in the Cypriot parliament, and now the government is scrambling to come up with another plan to take back to the EU. Amid all of the political chaos, chatter has resurfaced about the prospect of a country leaving the euro. A survey this week shows why that could be something of a possibility (via Greek newspaper Kathimerini): The survey by Prime Consulting found that 91 percent of Cypriots backed their Parliamentís decision to reject the deposit tax. The poll also found that 67.3 percent of Cypriots favored their countryís exit from the eurozone and a strengthening of relations with Russia. Of course, euro area leaders should probably be thinking about what they can do to reduce the chances of this happening, as it sets a bad precedent. What would happen if Cyprus did end up leaving the euro, though? While it's not their "base case," BofA Merrill Lynch economists†Laurence Boone and†Ruben Segura-Cayuela†examine the implications of such a scenario: In this scenario, the possibility of a country exiting the euro area could revive contagion risks, only to be mitigated by much more forceful policy reactions. We could see such a scenario materializing if negotiations failed, leading to a default on private and then public debt in Cyprus. In that scenario, when banks reopened, deposit flights would likely lead to bank insolvency and the ECB would veto ELA. As a result, banks would likely default, and since the sovereign is not in a position to nationalize the banks and cover the deposit insurance, it would be likely to default as well. This would probably be followed by a strong policy response from the ECB. In that case, to contain a potential run on the peripheral banks, the ECB would likely have to use more of its unconventional tools: first, more LTRO, together with rate cuts and possibly further collateral loosening to cheapen the price of liquidity as much as possible; second, possibly bond buying if there were a sell-off of periphery bond countries.  To contain the run on sovereigns, the ECB would likely have to proceed with extensive bond buying. OMT is a tool designed for countries with temporary liquidity, which might not be perfectly suited for a rapid deterioration of several countriesí bond markets that would reflect contagion. Against that backdrop, the ECB could be forced to intervene directly, though we believe such purchases could not take place (for more than a couple of days and by a limited amount such as the SMP) without the implicit support of core countries. Given the contentious nature of sovereign bond purchases and fiscal transfers in the euro area, for markets to be fully convinced, in our view, the agreement by core countries would then have to be followed by a political process endorsing the debt mutualisation by the ECB together with a transfer of sovereignty at the euro level. In short, it would probably be messy, and it would require a lot of compromise on the part of European officials who clearly aren't willing to budge at the moment. Note: ELA stands for "Emergency Liquidity Assistance," the last recourse for euro area banks facing liquidity crunches. OMT stands for "Outright Monetary Transactions," a sovereign bond-buying program introduced by the ECB last year. SMP stands for "Securities Markets Programme" and is a precursor to OMT with less pre-conditions for activation. LTRO stands for "Long Term Refinancing Operations," an ECB program offering loans to euro area banks at very low interest rates.
It has been a long time since I've had a newspaper delivered.† And now that I have my finger stuffed in the electrical socket of real-time digital news delivery 24 hours a day, a recent experience of having one unexpectedly delivered was startling. A couple of days ago, in Los Angeles, I opened the door to my hotel room in the morning to find a newspaper. The main headline delivered information that had been "news" to me about 24 hours earlier. I had read about the information all day long, and, prior to opening my hotel room door that morning, I had already read a bunch of what used to be called "second-day" and "third-day" stories about it as well (the more contemplative analysis that follows once everyone has digested the news). As a result, the impact was similar to the impact of seeing a front page of a historical event--an artifact, from back when such front pages actually delivered news. I'm not against getting free stuff, so I probably would have picked the newspaper up and taken it to breakfast if I hadn't been in a hurry. Alas, I was in a hurry. So I stepped over it, refreshed the news on my phone, and headed for the elevators.† Somewhere in there, I also (briefly) contemplated the immense amount of work and money that had gone into producing and delivering that newspaper to me. The news-gathering, the writing, the editing, the laying-out, the printing, the truck delivery, the hotel employee who had to push carts around the hotel for hours in the dead of night... And that doesn't even include the cost of growing, cutting, and pulping trees, making paper and ink, and burning coal and oil for power and electricity to run those gigantic machines. I at least hope that no advertisers paid the newspaper to reach me! Henry Blodget/Business Insider
CNBCIt's interesting how a country as small as Cyprus could be responsible for sending jitters through the global financial markets. To get a sense of scale, Goldman's Jim O'Neill compares the Cypriot economy to China. From O'Neill's new Viewpoints note: So how can it be that a $22bn economy can be the dominant global topic for conversation for a full week? I am fond of saying that China (at least in 2011) was creating the equivalent of another Greece every 121/2 weeks. China creates another Cyprus every week. If Cypriot banks reopen next Monday, in the time they have been shut, China has created another Cypriot economy. Having said that, O'Neill discusses what the Cypriot crisis really means: Cyprus has now, in my view, become the epicentre of a number of major strategic issues. I can think of at least four (but there are probably more): First, the European Monetary Union (EMU), in effect, continues to be a union of 17 countries that donít see their collective shared interests as the same. Second, within this context, much decision making is not actually decided by the EU or euro zone bodies but by key politicians whose main criteria is what they ìcan get away withî with respect to their parliaments. Can EMU ultimately survive, or indeed, can EMU survive with this system? Third, behind the scenes, who is going to win the battle over the immediate resolution of the Cyprus dilemma ñ Moscow or Berlin? With it, this has brought a major strategic challenge between those two power centres. And Fourth, is there likely to be sufficient vision and imagination to realise that this crisis can be turned into an opportunity and ñ while not quite as simple as this, but in essence ñ that everyone could be a winner? Read his whole note at GoldmanSachs.com.
Flickr / Jonathan Kos-ReadLast year, collapsing Chinese industries were bringing light to what appeared to be China's bad debt nightmare. The implosion of Suntech Power Holdings and China's decision to split the Ministry of Railways (MoR) and transfer all its debt to a state owned enterprise have once again raised questions about government debt.¬†¬† We have previously reported on how local governments were underplaying the bad debt problem and actually making it worse by plying "zombie companies" with more cash. First, in doing so, the government has made sure the bond market has had no defaults, but countered efforts to "develop a functional bond market." From Societe Generale's Wei Yao: "In light of these developments, it could be said that all the debt of the state-owned or state-holding enterprises, which stands at about 100% of GDP, should have been included in the calculation of the government‚Äôs liability. Furthermore, the debt of private companies deemed too big to fail in certain local economies may have been included as well. "Nevertheless, we see this opaque debt ownership more as a medium-term uncertainty rather than posing imminent financial or sovereign risk. No clear debt ownership means no straightforward mechanism to resolve potential debt default. Such uncertainty usually leads to either complacency or panic in the financial markets." Second, and more worrisome is the impact this has had on the local government debt burden which has increased to about 17 - 18 trillion yuan. Local government debt can be traced through 1. Bond issuance 2. Bank loans by local government financing vehicles (LGFV). 3. LGFV bond issuance. 4. Trust financing.¬† Here's the breakdown from SocGen: Societe Generale While the recent rise land prices could ease pressure on the local government, the recent property curbs announced by the government could "darken the outlook" in the second half of the year, according to Yao. And this in turn could impact troubled companies. "These measures together with more restrictions on financing mean that 2013 is unlikely to be an easy year for local governments or infrastructure financing," writes Yao. "If local governments have a hard time covering their own financing needs, the possibility of them letting go of troubled corporates will rise. We will look for signs of stress in the domestic bond market as well as trust products."
Morgan Stanley credit strategist Andrew Sheets -- in addition to being a brilliant analyst -- also makes great market comics. Here's a gem from his latest note. Andrew Sheets, Morgan Stanley
Stocks are rallying today. The big headlines continue to come out of Cyprus, where leaders are scrambling to structure a deal to bail out the country's banks. Earlier today, Reuters reported that they were optimistic a deal would be formed in a few hours. The Greek stock market, which is heavily exposed to Cyprus, is surging today.¬† Banks are leading the way on rumors that Greek banks were in talks to buy the Greek units of Cypriot banks. Here's an intraday look at Greece's ASE index via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
Business Insider / Sam RoMe enjoying the 32 oz 'Gotham' rib steak at NYC's Old Homestead.I've always liked vegetables. But I've also always loved junk food. And while my blood pressure is normal and my cholesterol levels are optimal, I am overweight. So, in an effort to kickstart a life-change, I went on a short cleanse diet. Specifically, I signed up for Organic Avenue's 3-day beginner's cleanse, a regimen of vegan juices and raw food. Yes, it was a brief. But three days off of coffee was painful, and it immediately hurt my performance at work. And while most of the cleanse was very tasty ó actually, the food was phenomenal ó I spent much of the time struggling with what Organic Avenue calls "digestive disturbances." (Use your imagination) I did lose around eight pounds in those three days. But it came at a severe cost: I now hate vegetables. In the same way too many Tanqueray and tonics in college ruined me for gin, three days of non-stop kale, carrots, and collard greens now have me gagging at the thought of my next salad. I asked Reese Blaisdell of Organic Avenue about my post-cleanse experience, and she said this was the first she heard of a person walking away with more of an aversion to vegetables. This is likely the "effects of detoxing," speculated Reese. She explained that this could be the effects of a "body shock" as toxins were being dumped into my bloodstream. I have faith that she's right and that my newfound distaste for greens will fade. But for now, the memory of my 3-day cleanse will haunt me.
Let's be real, not a ton of people watch Ivy League sports and the schools aren't really worried about that. In fact, they don't even have athletic scholarships. This isn't to say that teams don't want to be competitive ‚Äî the athletes work really hard. Still, sports are expected to take a backseat to academics. That means the world of Ivy sports is more about fierce rivalries within the group than anything else (Columbians, for example, will forever hate Princeton with the fire of 1,000 suns). That's why 14-seed Harvard's win 68-62 win against New Mexico last night was such a huge deal, not just for the school, but for the entire Ivy League. No one ‚Äî not alums, faculty or students ‚Äî expects Ivy League sports to be about watching the national scene, at least not with mainstream sports (fencing on the other hand...). What people expect is that watching Ivy League sports is about accepting certain... inconsistencies. At big state schools you have a loyal fan base of excited students, at Ivys you have a bunch of students who may have no idea what season it is. Then there's the fact that one day your team may crush a cross-town, D3 rival and feel great, and then the next game it'll get completely throttled by another Ivy, or by a team that was clearly out of its league. Finally sports fans know that even if their team wins the Ivy League tournament (and again, this goes for most big-time sports) it can expect to get crushed in NCAA championship if it goes at all. The New Yorker ran a short piece from a Harvard alum who covered basketball while he was at school. It pretty much sums up an Ivy League student body's expectations of sports in general. It's called,¬†"When Harvard Men Couldn't Jump." Here's a piece: In my day (the customary phrase to introduce gasbag alumni reminiscences), the hoopsters played in a not-so-glorified gym with the poetic name of the Indoor Athletic Building.. At halftime of every game, a local travel agency sponsored what was known as the Bermuda Shoot. After a drawing, a spectator would take a shot from half-court to win a trip to Bermuda if he (or she) made it. Once, a guy did. It was the loudest cheer I heard in those two years. I did get to cover a game from courtside at the old Boston Garden, which was a big thrill for me. On that day, Harvard lost to Boston College, 86-83, which was a closer game than most of us had expected, since B.C. was favored by about a dozen points. Much later, it emerged that gangsters had paid off four Eagle players to shave points. The scandal earned a mention in Goodfellas. I remember the Harvard team being terrible, but that, it turns out, was not the case. Mediocre is more like it... Both years, the team finished toward the middle of the pack in the Ivies, not too far behind Penn and Princeton, which dominated the league for decades. Two things in that excerpt would be completely unacceptable at most schools that make it to March Madness. First, the fact that a trip to Bermuda for a random fan got more cheers than anything else at any game ever, and second, the fact being "terrible" to "mediocre" seems okay, even within Ivy ranks. It's expected. Harvard hasn't made it to the NCAA tournament in 6 decades and they may not last long. But for at least a little bit, not just Harvard students and alums, but Ivy Leaguers across the board can forget about the "inconsistencies" of Ivy sports. It will be hard given their long history of just being... whatever. But beer and wings will help.
Just last year, Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein said that†more than 300,000 people applied for available full-time positions†at the firm in 2010 and 2011. †The bank hired fewer than four percent of those applicants. The CEO of†job search site Monster,†Salvatore Iannuzzi,†said the average company with 100,000 employees receives about three million applications each year. On Wall Street especially there are tons of highly qualified candidates with degrees from top schools and stellar GPAs competing for a limited number of openings. And as Wall Street has contracted due to layoffs, there are more and more qualified people looking for those available jobs.† So how do you stand out and how does an employer sift through all the job seekers for the perfect candidate?† That's exactly the problem former investment bankers/ hedge funders Adam Goldstein, 33, and Brett Adcock, 27, are aiming to solve with a new product called Street of Wallsó a web site that tests and screens job seekers based on finance industry specific skills employers are looking for. With this service it doesn't matter where you went to school if you can prove your abilities.† Coming From A Non-Target School Goldstein and Adcock recognized a problem with hiring on the Street when they were working in the hedge fund space.† "I went to the University of Florida and they put Brett's rÈsumÈ†on my desk because he went to Florida too and it was sort of a joke 'Haha look at the Florida kid' when we're bringing on Wharton, Stanford, MIT. Haha another Florida guy," Goldstein told Business Insider in an interview. The hedge fund brought Adcock in for an interview and "he blew everyone away," Goldstein said. "So everyone was kind of like, 'Wow, that was a big shocker. How did that happen?†The reality is there are a lot of really smart people that go to a lot of different schools," Goldstein explained. † Based on their experience, Goldstein and Adcock said they realized that trying to hire people is extremely difficult because there are too many people applying and that makes it hard for the employer to find the right person.† The 'Big Data Problem'† Goldstein explained that twenty years ago or so, looking for job seekers was difficult because there was no centralized way to do this. Then about ten years ago, job boards started to pop online and it became really easy. † "Now today there are so many people that it's really actually hard to sift through and find them. So the problem right now isn't more of it, you need less. So that's kind of the big data problem that everybody talks about."† Speaking of the "big data problem," Goldstein said almost everyone applying for Wall Street jobs went to a good school and have a good GPA. †There really isn't a way to differentiate anyone. "So sort of with an old school search mentality, I type in for somebody with a 3.5 GPA from a top 20 school and I'll literally get back an unlimited amount of applicants," he said. The Wall Street Admissions Test Coming from the hedge fund world, the pair used a thesis of "follow the research." So following the research, they started thinking about this problem of why is it so hard to find good people because there are just too many to choose from.† Overtime, they developed the site to help address this problem. The pair said they came up with a concept of "taking more and turning it into less" by†assessing the candidates. † They developed The Wall Street Admissions Test (WSAT), which assesses candidates on their skills in accounting, financial statement analysis, corporate valuation, math, logic and economics.† They said employers can come to them and say here are the skills we are looking for and they can use this test to screen people based on these real skills sets instead of GPAs or schools.† "If I'm an investment bank or hedge fund or private equity firm trying to hire somebody, I want someone who is smart and I want someone who can hit the ground running too that has a very strong background in accounting because I don't want to teach them accounting. I want to teaching them modeling and all those other things. We screen for all those things. We test for those things," Goldstein said. The test also helps level the playing field for those who didn't go to an Ivy League. "It allows people like Brett and myself who didn't come from top 20 school backgrounds, it gives us a chance," Goldstein said.† "It gives you a chance based on what you know, not where you went to school," Adcock added. Goldstein and Adcock haven't publicly said which employers are using their site to recruit people. †They did say that they are recognizable investment banks, hedge funds and private equity firms. † They also haven't given out the number of job seekers using the service, but they told us there are "a lot."† They believe their product will help "take this data and sift it down to something that is much more useful to find those needles in the haystack."†
Cyprus is in crunch mode today. The Cypriot parliament needs to get nine bills related to banking reform, capital controls, and setting up an investment fund to raise cash for a bailout of its banks and also submit its new proposal to the EU for consideration. New comments out of Cyprus via Reuters suggest a deal may be done today. Cyprus ruling party says a bailout deal acceptable to the EU may be only hours away. The chart below shows the move in the euro against the U.S. dollar. It moved from levels around 1.2935 up to 1.30 in a matter of minutes, but has since backed off a bit. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
Steve Kovach, Business InsiderThe BlackBerry Z10.After nearly a year of delays, the new BlackBerry Z10 has arrived in the U.S. and is on sale today. AT&amp;T is the first carrier to sell the phone. It costs $199.99 with a two-year contract.¬† T-Mobile will begin selling the Z10 on March 26 and Verizon will sell it on March 28. Sprint decided to skip the Z10 and will only sell the keyboard-equipped BlackBerry Q10 when it launches in a few months. The Z10 got pretty good reviews, but the question is now whether or not BlackBerry waited too long to release a phone that's competitive with the iPhone and top-tier Android phones.¬†
flickr / Brian GurrolaMany have noted the fairly muted market reaction to the crisis unfolding in Cyprus. At a press conference Wednesday following the Federal Reserve's regular FOMC policy meeting, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke nailed the general mood, telling reporters: [Cyprus] does have some consequence. But having said that, you know, the vote failed and the markets are up today, and I don't think that the impact has been enormous. I mean, I think it's something we're paying attention to, and we hope that the Europeans will come up with an efficient and equitable solution. We are monitoring very carefully, but at this point we're not seeing major risk to the U.S. financial system or the U.S. economy. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale credit strategist Suki Mann attributes the market's general lack of interest in the Cyprus situation partly to Bernanke himself, as well as his fellow central bankers around the world. For Mann, this episode just reinforces the theme that fund managers' ongoing "search for yield" is still the overriding factor driving markets, at least for now. However, Mann still wants to sit this one out.†In a note, he writes (emphasis added): Fantastic. The market reaction to the crisis in Cyprus. There is no other way to describe it. Peripheral government debt is holding firm, equity indices have zoomed past the moon, safe-haven bonds have rallied (just in case) and corporate credit walks on by, merrily. It's one thing injecting massive liquidity into the global financial system allowing for easier refinancing of obligations across all parts of the economy, ensuring easier debt servicing and sustaining a low default rate in the midst of a great economic downturn. It's another when we almost completely ignore Cyprus, its potential for a eurozone exit and the non-trivial probability that such an event would unleash massive contagion. We've been here before many times over the past few years, a 'solution' has always been found.†But the brinkmanship is at a new level, the political will to help do whatever they have to is more questionable and, into it, the Cypriots are gambling on receiving 93c on the dollar (original deal) versus losing say 93c (if it all collapses). Liquidity hides many ills, but is the power of zero (returns from cash) that great? In credit, we buy risk where the corporate entity is in fundamental decline. We become yield hogs and add paper that we would never dare look at previously. Ratings downgrades (and transmission risks) do not matter.†As long as the potential for default is very low, the yield of the product wins out. There's been massive manipulation of the markets, it's given risk asset performance a huge boost for the best part of nearly two years, and we are sure there's more to go. We are, after all, in Japanification territory. Right now, our concerns mean we'd be sidelined until the Cyprus situation plays out. Most are anyway. Fellow SocGen analyst Sebastien Galy said this morning that there is concern about a last-minute Cyprus deal leading to a "brutal short squeeze." Read his take here &gt;
In January, HP handed 23-year HP veteran Jim Murrin a big job, Business Insider has learned from an internal email (full text below). The move was not announced publicly. (Murrin hasn't even updated his LinkedIn profile.) But HP sent us an email confirming his new job. This new role is interesting because Murrin was HP's controller, the top accountant, when HP bought Autonomy in 2011 for $11 billion, and for about six months after the Autonomy deal closed. That deal did not end well. Murrin will now lead the corporate development unit, overseeing mergers and acquisitions. Plus he was given a brand new task: to help HP's board understand the company's financials, particularly of any new acquisition target. Murrin replaced Andy Johnson, who was the top finance guy responsible for M&amp;A when HP bought Autonomy. Johnson is currently on a leave of absence. To recap: HP bought Autonomy in 2011 for $11 billion. Autonomy makes "big data" software. It was former HP CEO Leo Apotheker's signature deal. Apotheker was fired in September, 2011, before HP even closed the purchase. In November, HP announced that it was writing off $8.8 billion from Autonomy and said it discovered $5 billion worth of "improper accounting" on Autonomy's books. Autonomy execs refute HP's accusations. Automy's problems have triggered a lot of drama within HP and  at least 10 shareholder lawsuits. Murrin was HP's controller from 2007 to April, 2012. In May he moved to a job as a senior vice president of HP ES, which lasted until his new appointment at the beginning of this year. Murrin is named in one of those lawsuits from the Autonomy fallout, accused of $3.5 million-worth of insider trading for stock sold months before HP disclosed Autonomy's problems. To be fair, this lawsuit also names CEO Meg Whitman, former CEO Leo Apotheker and CFO Cathy Lesjak. Shareholder lawsuits tend to be scatter-shot affairs that make wide ranging accusations in hopes that one of them will pay off. We also know that at least one of the questioned trades was prescheduled ‚Äî and therefore not likely to be against the law. By some reports, HP's accountants were trying to be the good guys, too. Lesjak, Murrin's boss,  reportedly tried to stop the Autonomy deal, telling the board she thought HP was paying too much. So in one way, with this promotion, HP appears to be saying that it won't be bullied by frivolous shareholder lawsuits when choosing its leaders. Here's the full-text of the January email sent out to all HP employees announcing Murrin's promotion by HP's CFO Lesjak: Today I am pleased to announce that Jim Murrin is re-joining my finance leadership team as Senior Vice President of Corporate Financial Analytics and Corporate Development. Andy Johnson, who has been with the Corporate Development function for seven years and leading it for nearly two years, has taken a leave of absence to focus on some important personal matters. He has my full support to take this leave and upon his return, Andy will be reviewing new roles outside Corporate Development to broaden his HP experience. Jim will assume leadership for Corporate Development, which oversees Mergers and Acquisitions, integration and divestitures for HP and will immediately begin a transition with JR Ahn, who has been the acting leader over the past few weeks. I would like thank JR very much for stepping up in the interim. In addition to leading Corporate Development, Jim will establish and lead a new Corporate Finance capability, the Corporate Financial Analytics function. This new Finance team will be accountable for developing the financial content and perspective needed to assist the Executive leadership team and the Board in assessing company performance, establishing short and long term plans, and in driving decisions on investment choices and capital allocation. Over the 23 years that Jim has been at HP, he has held a variety of senior leadership positions including Corporate Controller, and several Finance business group CFO roles. Most recently, Jim has been leading the Select Accounts Group within Enterprise Services, where he has been managing a select list of low performing accounts, driving them to a achieve a higher level of operational performance and profitability. It is a pleasure to have Jim back. Please join me in welcoming him to this new and critical role.
Wikimedia CommonsLast week I posted a piece on a particular hedge fundís research[1] from 18-months ago, and then I went on to praise that hedge fund, with 20/20 hindsight, for nailing it, in terms of understanding the Great Recession, and why itís taking so long to recover from it. In response, in my inbox today I received a notification that SCRIBD, the document posting service, had complied with a request to take down the research piece. And then I received this: óñOriginal Messageóñ From: ìMichael J. Balesî &lt;Michael.Bales@BakerMcKenzie.com&gt; Sent: Tuesday, August 28, 2012 5:52pm To: info@bankers-anonymous.com Subject: DMCA Takedown Notice: Bridgewater Associates Deleveraging Studies From: Michael J. Bales &lt;Michael.Bales@BakerMcKenzie.com&gt; Subject: DMCA Takedown Notice: Bridgewater Associates Deleveraging Studies Message Body: Dear Sir or Madam, Pursuant to 17 USC 512(c)(3)(A), this communication serves as a statement that: 1. I am the duly authorized representative of Bridgewater Associates, LP, the exclusive rights holder for the work entitled ìDeleveraging Studiesî; 2. These exclusive rights are being violated by the wholesale copying of this article at the following URL: http://www.scribd.com/doc/103650057/Bridgewater-Deleveraging-Studies, and a link to this URL is provided in a blog post on your website at: http://www.bankers-anonymous.com/blog/first-prize-for-a-great-recession-framework-bridgewater-associates/#_ftnref1; 3. I have a good faith belief that the use of this material in such a fashion is not authorized by the copyright holder, the copyright holderís agent, or the law; 4. Under penalty of perjury in a United States court of law, I state that the information contained in this notification is accurate, and that I am authorized to act on the behalf of the exclusive rights holder for the material in question; 5. I may be contacted at Baker &amp; McKenzie, 1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036, via email at Michael.Bales@BakerMcKenzie.com, or at (212) 626-4810. I hereby request that you disable access to this material as it appears on Bankers Anonymous by removing the referenced link in as expedient a fashion as possible. Sincerely, Michael J. Bales Associate, Baker &amp; McKenzie LLP † I also got a series of individual requests by people who wanted to get access to the research, but couldnít download it before SCRIBD took it away in compliance with Bridgewaterís request. Anyway, just another reason to be annoyed by hedge funds. Even when theyíre right, and you praise them, they donít want you to have the information that they have. [1] The fundís name rhymes with ìTrigís Motherî Post read (473) times.
curtsm via FlickrWhen Mort Zuckerman,†the New York City real-estate and media mogul, lavished $200†million on Columbia University in December to endow the Mortimer B.†Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, he did so with fanfare suitable to the occasion: the press conference was attended by two Nobel laureates, the president of the university, the mayor, and journalists from some of New Yorkís major media outlets. Many of the 12 other individual charitable gifts that topped $100†million in the U.S. last year were showered with similar attention: $150†million from Carl Icahn to the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, $125†million from Phil Knight to the Oregon Health &amp; Science University, and $300†million from Paul Allen to the Allen Institute for Brain Science in Seattle, among them. If you scanned the press releases, or drove past the many university buildings, symphony halls, institutes, and stadiums named for their benefactors, or for that matter read the histories of grand giving by the Rockefellers, Carnegies, Stanfords, and Dukes, you would be forgiven for thinking that the story of charity in this country is a story of epic generosity on the part of the American rich. It is not. One of the most surprising, and perhaps confounding, facts of charity in America is that the people who can least afford to give are the ones who donate the greatest percentage of their income. In 2011, the wealthiest Americansóthose with earnings in the top 20†percentócontributed on average 1.3†percent of their income to charity. By comparison, Americans at the base of the income pyramidóthose in the bottom 20 percentódonated 3.2†percent of their income. The relative generosity of lower-income Americans is accentuated by the fact that, unlike middle-class and wealthy donors, most of them cannot take advantage of the charitable tax deduction, because they do not itemize deductions on their income-tax returns. But why? Lower-income Americans are presumably no more intrinsically generous (or ìprosocial,î as the sociologists say) than anyone else. However, some experts have speculated that the wealthy may be†less†generousóthat the personal drive to accumulate wealth may be inconsistent with the idea of communal support. Last year, Paul Piff, a psychologist at UC†Berkeley, published research that correlated wealth with an increase in unethical behavior: ìWhile having money doesnít necessarily make anybody anything,î Piff later told†New York†magazine, ìthe rich are way more likely to prioritize their own self-interests above the interests of other people.î They are, he continued, ìmore likely to exhibit characteristics that we would stereotypically associate with, say, assholes.î Colorful statements aside, Piffís research on the giving habits of different social classesówhile not directly refuting the asshole theoryósuggests that other, more complex factors are at work. In a series of controlled experiments, lower-income people and people who identified themselves as being on a relatively low social rung were consistently more generous with limited goods than upper-class participants were. Notably, though, when both groups were exposed to a sympathy-eliciting video on child poverty, the compassion of the wealthier group began to rise, and the groupsí willingness to help others became almost identical. If Piffís research suggests that exposure to need drives generous behavior, could it be that the isolation of wealthy Americans from those in need is a cause of their relative stinginess? Patrick Rooney, the associate dean at the Indiana University School of Philanthropy, told me that greater exposure to and identification with the challenges of meeting basic needs may create ìhigher empathyî among lower-income donors. His view is supported by a recent study by†The Chronicle of Philanthropy, in which researchers analyzed giving habits across all American†ZIP†codes. Consistent with previous studies, they found that less affluent†ZIP†codes gave relatively more. Around Washington, D.C., for instance, middle- and lower-income neighborhoods, such as Suitland and Capitol Heights in Prince Georgeís County, Maryland, gave proportionally more than the tony neighborhoods of Bethesda, Maryland, and McLean, Virginia. But the researchers also found something else: differences in behavior among wealthy households, depending on the type of neighborhood they lived in. Wealthy people who lived in homogeneously affluent areasóareas where more than 40†percent of households earned at least $200,000 a yearówere less generous than comparably wealthy people who lived in more socioeconomically diverse surroundings. It seems that insulation from people in need may dampen the charitable impulse. Wealth affects not only how much money is given but to whom it is given. The poor tend to give to religious organizations and social-service charities, while the wealthy prefer to support colleges and universities, arts organizations, and museums. Of the 50 largest individual gifts to public charities in 2012, 34 went to educational institutions, the vast majority of them colleges and universities, like Harvard, Columbia, and Berkeley, that cater to the nationís and the worldís elite. Museums and arts organizations such as the Metropolitan Museum of Art received nine of these major gifts, with the remaining donations spread among medical facilities and fashionable charities like the Central Park Conservancy. Not a single one of them went to a social-service organization or to a charity that principally serves the poor and the dispossessed. More gifts in this group went to elite prep schools (one, to the Hackley School in Tarrytown, New York) than to any of our nationís largest social-service organizations, including United Way, the Salvation Army, and Feeding America (which got, among them, zero). Underlying our charity systemóand our tax codeóis the premise that individuals will make better decisions regarding social investments than will our representative government. Other developed countries have a very different arrangement, with significantly higher individual tax rates and stronger social safety nets, and significantly lower charitable-contribution rates. We have always made a virtue of individual philanthropy, and Americans tend to see our large, independent charitable sector as crucial to our countryís public spirit. There is much to admire in our approach to charity, such as the social capital that is built by individual participation and volunteerism. But our charity system is also fundamentally regressive, and works in favor of the institutions of the elite. The pity is, most people still likely believe that, as Michael Bloomberg once said, ìthereís a connection between being generous and being successful.î There is a connection, but probably not the one we have supposed.
Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
Earnings came in at $1.40 per share, which was higher than the $1.36 expected by analysts. Strong sales were driven by Asian demand. "In the Asia-Pacific region, total sales rose 13% to $254 million in the fourth quarter and 8% to $810 million, or 21% of worldwide sales, in the full year," wrote the company. "On a constant-exchange-rate basis, total sales rose 10% in the fourth quarter due to sales growth in Greater China and in other markets and rose 8% in the full year; on that basis, comparable store sales rose 6% in the quarter and 2% in the full year." Management expects the current fiscal year to be another strong one. "Worldwide net sales growth of 6%-8% in U.S dollars," they wrote. "On a constant-exchange-rate basis, an expected high-single-digit percentage increase in worldwide net sales includes sales growth in all regions, ranging from a mid-teens percentage increase in Asia-Pacific to a low-single-digit increase in Japan." Tiffany's is likely to benefit from a recent scandal involving "impure gold" jewelry at unreliable Chinese vendors. "On Friday evening (15 March), CCTVís (China Central Television) ì3.15 programî showed a segment on impure gold jewelry," wrote Morgan Stanley's Edward Lui. "An anonymous insider at an OEM described the mixing of iridium (IR) metal into pure gold jewelry to increase the weight and reduce the cost of gold jewelry (IR costs 10-20% as much as gold). Gold bracelets sold at various domestic jewelry retailers, including a well-known brand, ìChow Tai Sengî, were later found to contain IR and failed purity tests. No listed companies were mentioned." Lui said well-known companies like Chow Tai Fook were likely to benefit.† While Lui didn't identify Tiffany's specifically, the iconic jeweler is unlikely to be a loser in this.
Most investors understand that they are unlikely to beat the major stock market indexes. Still, many investors remain convinced that they can pick better stocks than everyone else. Mebane Faber points us to some eye-opening statistics from a recent study conducted by Longboard Asset Management who took a close look at the returns of 3,000 stocks from 1983 to 2007.¬† They show how the odds are stacked against the investor who strays from an indexing strategy.¬† From Faber: In other words, chances are you're picking the wrong stocks. Faber points us to a chart from BlackRock, which we've seen before. And it's a chart we just can't get enough of. Not only does the average investor underperform the stock market, he can't even keep up with inflation. "Amidst difficult financial times, emotional instincts often drive investors to take actions that make no rational sense but make perfect emotional sense," wrote BlackRock. "Psychological factors such as fear often translate into poor timing of buys and sells." BlackRock, Bloomberg, Informa Investment Solutions, Dalbar
A number of factors are pointing to a developing market top, including a disappointing first quarter earnings outlook, the effects of fiscal restraint, the continued ineffectiveness of Fed policy on the real economy, the crisis in Cyprus and the world-wide recession. Third and fourth quarter S&amp;P 500 earnings were not only disappointing, but actually down from a year earlier.¬† Historically, two consecutive down quarters have occurred only in recessionary environments. Estimates for the first quarter of this year are up about 5% from a year ago, but have already come down steadily since September.¬† Now a number of reports indicate that the downturn in estimates for the quarter is starting to accelerate.¬† In just the last two days we have seen downward earnings revisions from either management or analysts for Federal Express, Oracle, Caterpillar, Airgas, Cisco, JDS Uniphase and Guess.¬† With 10 days still remaining in the first quarter, we think these downgrades are harbingers of more significant disappointments ahead. The negative effects of the fiscal cliff settlement and the sequester have mysteriously been put on the backburner, but will become more evident in the period ahead.¬† It wasn‚Äôt until a full 30 minutes into Chairman Bernanke‚Äôs press conference that somebody thought to ask about fiscal restraint.¬† Even Bernanke seemed to downplay the problem, answering that it would be ‚Äúsomewhat‚Äù negative.¬† In fact the Fed‚Äôs GDP projections for 2013 were only 0.2% lower than its prior projection in December.¬† This seems somewhat at odds with his previous testimony before Congress expressing great concern about the Fed‚Äôs inability to offset near-term fiscal restraint.¬† The fiscal cliff settlement and the sequester is estimated to subtract about 1.5% from GDP, an amount that is unlikely to be offset by the economy.¬† Furthermore, various estimates indicate that employment could decline by 500,000 to 700,000 from the sequester alone. As for Fed policy, there is little evidence that QE4 is having any significant effect on the real economy.¬† Bernanke reflected this uncertainty when he acknowledged that the economy seemed to be strengthening in the early part of each of the last three years only to falter after that.¬† He raised the thought that early-year strength may be caused by distorted seasonal adjustments resulting from the recession, an issue we have discussed in past comments. The Cyprus crisis is another issue that may have long-standing repercussions in the market.¬† We don‚Äôt know how this will turn out, and it may well be that it will all be settled by early next week.¬† The key point, however, is that no matter what happens, the EU has cast doubt on deposit guarantees throughout Europe and has called into question whether depositors are certain that their funds are safe.¬† From this point on, the depositors of banks in Spain, Portugal, Greece and Italy will regard their funds at risk, substantially increasing the possibility of either a run on the banks or a slow, but steady withdrawal. At the same time the global economy continues to deteriorate.¬† Both the German purchasing manufacturer‚Äôs index and the Euro-area indexes for services and manufacturing unexpectedly declined with much of Europe already in recession.¬†¬† Industrial commodity prices are declining, including the all-important copper index, possibly reflecting a decrease in Chinese purchases of raw materials.¬† After 23 years of extremely slow growth, Japan is embarking on yet another round of additional stimulus. In our view, the stock market can look to the two-legged stool of Fed ease and rising earnings for only so long.¬† One leg of the stool----earnings growth---- is already coming off and the Fed‚Äôs efforts to raise the real economy are falling short.¬† At this point we believe the risk of a substantial market downturn far outweighs the potential upside reward.
The Cypriot government says the next few hours will be critical in negotiations with the "troika" of European creditors over the bailout of the Cypriot banking system. Cyprus has to pass nine bills related to banking reform and raising funds to contribute to the bailout and send a proposal to the EU for acceptance in order to stave off a total collapse of its banking system next week. In an email, Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale analyst Sebastien Galy runs through the latest developments: Germany is balking at a Cypriot plan to collateralize church assets and future natural gas revenues in order to raise funds, and a vote on the plan in parliament has been pushed back a few hours. Galy also provides a link to ostrichpillow.com. The implications are fairly straightforward. Here's Galy (emphasis added): It all means we have no solution, because that solution is not deemed politically viable domestically at this point. The market knows it, but is concerned that the usual last minute European deal will lead to a brutal short squeeze of bearish positions, a fair fear. Cyprus is increasingly portrayed as a poker player in Germany, while for some reason it is displaced from the front pages in french newspapers, suggesting politically support in Europe seems weak, outside the self inflicted wound on the below 100K tax on deposit proposal. Fellow SocGen strategist Vincent Chaigneau outlined in a separate note how that might happen: Cyprus deal still achievable... Arguably, we could well have a positive surprise on Cyprus over the coming days. The amounts at stake (a ‚Ç¨17bn rescue) are big relative to Cyprus‚Äô GDP, but small at the EU level. The ESM could easily fund the ‚Ç¨17bn bailout, but the EU believes this would over-burden Cyprus‚Äôs government debt. Hence, the requirement that some losses are recognised, so that other parties contribute to the funding. Hence, the idea of imposing a levy on deposits (effectively a haircut), for ‚Ç¨5.8bn. The idea has proved very disturbing, in particular because it reneges on the earlier EU engagement to protect all deposits up to ‚Ç¨100k. But senior bank debt is too small (‚Ç¨1.7n) to provide a significant debt relief. A haircut on government debt (‚Ç¨4.4bn of Cypriot law bonds and ‚Ç¨3.8bn of English law bonds) wouldn‚Äôt deliver ‚Ç¨5.8bn either, unless a giant haircut is imposed. Still, a maturity extension would give Cyprus some breathing air. Cyprus could also sell assets, or issue bonds backed by the future string of incomes on those assets. Another idea, as we go to press, is to hit unsecured deposits (above ‚Ç¨100k) much more heavily, while protecting secured deposits. Needless to say, this weekend should be interesting. The ECB has told Cyprus it will cut off liquidity to the tiny island nation's troubled banking system if they don't have a deal by Monday.
Reuters/Mario AnzuoniGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Bloomberg TVThe Cypriot government just issued a statement on the latest in the negotiations over a bailout of its banking system with the EU. Via Bloomberg, Cypriot government spokesman Christos Stylianides, speaking in the capital of Nicosia, said talks with the "troika" of EU, ECB, and IMF creditors are in the final stage. Stylianides said that parliament would convene soon to take a difficult decision, and that the measures taken would be painful regardless, but¬†that the next few hours will be critical and will determine the future. Negotiations are at a sensitive point and everyone has to rise to the occasion, said Stylianides. Meanwhile, European Commission President Jos√© Manuel Barroso said that there was "no time to lose" on seeking a Cyprus solution that is acceptable to all of the euro area, but that no rescue plan has been received from Cyprus yet. Europe is waiting on the Cypriot parliament to pass nine bills related to the bailout and banking reform today.
wwitv.comStay tuned. The Cyprus government is supposed to make a statement at 6 AM ET. Some votes have been scheduled for today, but have been reportedly delayed a bit. Meanwhile, we know that Cyprus has essentially been stiff-armed by the Russians, which passed on opportunities to make investments in either Cyprus' banks or gas deposits. In the meantime, there are comments from German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble out about how it's unclear whether there will be a Eurogroup meeting this weekend or not. We'll know more soon.
One of the hottest trades in the world is to short the Japanese yen on the premise that the new government and the new management at the Bank of Japan would engage in aggressive, yen-weakening easing. And that's still the big plan, but for now the yen weakness has stalled a bit. The yen is having a pretty strong day (which contributed to an ugly performance in the Nikkei). Here's a look at dollar vs. yen over the last few days. You can see the dollar weakness today. FinViz
Wikimedia Commons "It must realize its current business model is dead." That's what Merkel said about Cyprus this morning, according to Luke Baker at Reuters. After the ructions of this week, there's virtually no chance that the island can keep its oversized banking sector, ultra-low taxes, and massive deposits from rich Russians. The good news is that this is key to getting a deal. Alex Hern points this out in The New Statesman today: In a way, though, the background situation has got better for Cyprus in the last week. On Monday, the country was deathly afraid of the deposit tax because it could have signaled the death of Cyprus as a destination for offshore banking. That appears to have been the reason why it took the disastrous choice to "spread the pain" by hitting insured depositors with a tax on top of uninsured. Now, it doesn't have to worry about that, because its role as an offshore banking destination is dead already. It is, bluntly, inconceivable that the "solution" to the crisis, whatever it is, won't result in deposit flight from overseas depositors. The only hope left is to ensure that it doesn't also result in Cypriots moving their money offshore. Cyprus probably had a chance if it had agreed to the initial deposit levy right away. It would have been brutal, but it would have been over. And by taxing local depositors at 6.5%, while keeping the tax on rich depositors to just 9.9%, the government would have sent a strong message to foreign depositors that they were willing to hurt their own residents in order to protect them. That seems gone, and so is the Cypriot model. As for other news this morning, the other headlines include Russia rejecting any real plans to invest in Cyprus. It looks like if Cyprus is going to get a deal it's going to be a deposit tax.
That‚Äôs what Schaeffers Investment Research is asking after a huge run in the market in recent months. ¬†Despite persistent chatter that everyone is expecting a market decline (eventually), the data shows that there aren‚Äôt many bears at all. ¬†Here‚Äôs Ryan Detrick from Schaeffers: ‚ÄúIt is expiration Friday and we are usually pretty busy, so here‚Äôs a quick chart that should give the bulls pause. With news highs being made just about everyday, one thing to be aware of is investors are getting excited. ¬†Is this reason to sell everything? ¬†No. ¬†But don‚Äôt get trapped and go all in here either. ¬†Heck,¬†Mila Kunis¬†just said she is investing in stocks for the first time in years. ¬†This after being in cash during a huge bull market. Here‚Äôs a chart of the % of bears from the¬†Investors Intelligence survey. ¬†What you need to know is moves beneath 20% have been very worrisome going back the past few years. ¬†This after stubbornly not breaking this area the past month. ¬†Could this be the final capitulation?‚Äù I did a little sleuthing and he‚Äôs right. ¬†There does appear to be some compelling evidence that readings below 20 percent tend to correlate fairly closely to market peaks. ¬†In fact, many of the worst declines in recent history occurred with very low bullish readings. ¬†Of course, this is just one data point in a sea of thousands, but it‚Äôs worth noting just in case the ‚Äúwealth effect‚Äù decides to turn into a ‚Äúpoverty effect‚Äù at some point. ‚Ä¶ Investors Intelligence, PragCap (Figure 1 - Investor‚Äôs Intelligence % Bears)
Flickr / AndrewHA'sFrom Citi's Steven Englander, some big-picture thoughts about what this crazy Cyprus week meant. Basically, the real fallout comes next time. In any future crisis depositors have an incentive to shift their assets at an early stage of the crisis and any investor with exposure has an incentive to liquidate any exposure as soon as possible. This may speed up the time in which such crises occur and also force policymakers to make their move earlier in a crisis. The power of the state in being able to impose a levy literally overnight makes it harder for them to convince residents and investors that they wonít do so if push comes to shove.†††† If no resolution is found and Cyprus faces a banking crisis and/or leaves the euro zone, the onus on the ECB and Eurogroup will be to follow through on all their comments on ring-fencing and limited exposure. The Greek FM says that he has a plan to deal with the implications for Greek banks of a Cyprus banking system meltdown and the view is that the exposure elsewhere is limited. However, euro zone policymakers did not work through all the angles of last weekís agreement and there may be skepticism that they have adequate contingencies in place, if the fallout is bigger than expected.
Flickr / nahlinseNicosia, CyprusThe week is set to end dominated by the same story it began with: Cyprus. Markets are slipping just a little bit. Europe is down a tad. Japan dove last night, losing 2.35% as the yen shot up in strength. The Cyprus drama isn't having too strong effect on markets just yet, but yesterday there were some headlines that seemed to move things, so perhaps the market's firewall is giving way modestly.
