Apple says it sold a record-breaking 9 million iPhones during the opening weekend the 5S and 5C were on sale.¬† Gene Munster, analyst at Piper Jaffray, thinks there should be an asterisk on that record.¬† In an interview with Bloomberg TV, he attributed the eye-popping sales number to "channel fill."¬† He says Apple sold a lot of iPhone 5Cs to partners who did not sell the 5C to consumers. For instance, AT&amp;T may have bought 10 iPhone 5Cs, but only sold 5 of them. (Those numbers are just for explanatory purposes.) This is a first for Apple, since in the past it always sold out of all inventory of a new phone. The 5C, while technically a new phone, is basically just an iPhone 5 with a new case on it. Therefore, it didn't sell as well as a brand-new phone. Munster believes 3.5 million iPhone 5Cs accounted for channel fill and that the real iPhone sales number for Apple was 5.5 million. (For what it's worth, Munster was predicting 5 million iPhones sold, so his explanation of the real iPhone sales number is a little bit of covering his rear.) Here's Munster's full explanation in his report from earlier today: Breaking Down The 9 Million Units.¬†We believe that based on the 9 million number and our observations of weekend sales, the mix may have been around 4 million 5S units and 1.5 million 5C units sold-through (3.5 million sell-in). In our 5-6 million unit sell-through estimate, we had assumed 2.5 million units of the 5S and 3.5 million units of the 5C. The channel fill we are assuming from the 5C was not in our expectations. In terms of 5C channel fill, we note that currently the iPhone 5C is available on the online Apple Store with a 24 hour lead time. We believe this implies that the company has near-full channel inventory of the 5C. Based on the 11 million total iPhones available in channel inventory as of the June quarter, we believe this implies that 5C could be 3-4 million units. Watch him explain it on Bloomberg here. (We're having trouble with the embed code, so if the the video won't load, head over to Bloomberg):

Anastasia AbramovaFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisors Need To Talk To Their Clients About Gift Giving (The Wall Street Journal) As we near the holiday season more investors are going to start thinking about charitable giving. While some advisors are wary of offending a client that doesn't or doesn't "feel expert enough in tax planning and other financial aspects of philanthropy," they should still broach the subjects with their clients reports¬†Veronica Dagher at The Wall Street Journal. Advisors can do this by reviewing the previous year's gifts with clients and going over the ones they were most satisfied with, Cassidy Burns of Minneapolis-based Riverbridge Partners told the WSJ. They could also review all the clients assets since some assets "offer tax advantages as charitable gifts." Investors Need To Identify Valid Strategies And Learn To Act When Whatever Drove Them Out Of Fashion Stops Getting Worse (The Aleph Blog)  "There are valid theories on investing, and they work on average," writes David J. Merkel of The Aleph Blog. "Strategies trend.¬† There is an underlying kernel of validity; it makes economic sense, and has worked in the past.¬† But any strategy can be overplayed, even my favorite strategy, value investing." Merkel thinks the key is to¬† be aware of what is "out of fashion, and to be ready to invest when that which drives a strategy to be out of fashion stops getting worse." One example could be when you see headlines proclaiming the death of a certain strategy. That said, Merkel identifies 10 valid strategies that investors should watch. "1. Value 2. Price momentum 3. Long-term mean revision 4. Insider buying 5. Neglect (low volume relative to market cap) 6. Accounting quality (net operating accrual) 7. Low equity price volatility (which isn‚Äôt working now, because it became too popular). 8. Shrinking assets 9. Shrinking shares (buybacks) 10. High gross margins as a fraction of assets ('Quality,' a quantitative measure of moats.)" For A Real Impact From Alternative Investments, Investors Should Increase That Allocation To At Least 20% (Morningstar)  Speaking at the InvestmentNews Alternative Investments Conference in Chicago, Nadia Papagiannis, director of alternative fund research at Morningstar said investors should start with an allocation of at least 5% into alternative investments. But for this to truly register on their portfolio they need to increase this to 20%.¬† "If I were doing it, I would pick an equity long-short strategy, a managed-futures strategy and a market-neutral strategy as a kind of bond substitute, and I would equal-weight them into the portfolio," Investment News quotes Papagiannis saying. "Prior to 2008, a lot of investors were too heavy into equities, and now a lot of advisers are telling me their clients are too heavy into bonds." The State Of The Global Economy In 19 Anecdotes (Deutsche Bank) Deutsche Bank Contrarians Should 'Sell Stocks Till Your Hands Bleed, And Then Sell Some More' (Morgan Stanley)  Ever since the Fed refrained from tapering its asset purchase program, some analysts have revised up their S&amp;P 500 price target. But Morgan Stanley's top economist Joachim Fels says that "if you happen to be a contrarian, you should probably sell stocks till your hands bleed, and then sell some more." "If you happen to be a contrarian, you should probably sell stocks till your hands bleed, and then sell some more. Why? All the five seasoned investors representing large pools of money on the panel I moderated at our 4th annual Global Economics &amp; Strategy Day in Frankfurt on Friday were constructive on equities, and almost all of the around 200 investment professionals in the audience seemed to agree. ‚Ä¶While I have a strong contrarian streak, I confess I side with the consensus at the moment, along with our own strategists who are constructive on developed-market equities."
Bloomberg TV Only two major Wall Street shops in the United States have year-end S&amp;P 500 price targets below current levels. One is Citi's Tobias Levkovich, who predicts 1650 on the index by the end of 2013. The other is Wells Fargo's Gina Martin Adams, whose price target is even more bearish: Adams expects the S&amp;P 500 to end the year at 1440, implying a 15% decline from current levels around 1701. Adams is basically all alone down there, a notion reinforced by the spate of bullish calls from Wall Street equity strategists since the Fed's shocker decision to refrain from tapering quantitative easing last Wednesday. "Yes, our end of year S&amp;P 500 target is still 1440," says Adams in a note to clients today. The gist of her call? When the Fed eventually moves to tighten monetary policy, it's going to be much worse for stocks than the Fed's efforts to tighten policy in 1994, which many view as the closest analogue to today's situation. As a result, equity market valuation multiples should be expected to contract, while earnings growth isn't strong enough to receive the baton and continue propelling stocks higher. "While we looked at 50 years and several cycles to come to our conclusions, we continue to receive feedback suggesting that the Fed tightening cycle of 1994 is perhaps the most relevant 'worst case scenario' for equities in the near term," says Adams. "Respectfully, we disagree, for the current economic and rate environment is quite different than that of 1994." Adams then compares the 1994 experience to the current market and economic backdrops: First, economic and earnings growth was very rapid in 1994. The S&amp;P 500 PE multiple contracted 25% during the rate hike period, but earnings growth of nearly 20% on the heels of leading economic indicators (LEI) growth that averaged 7.5% offset the impact to stock prices. The Fed had been on hold at a target rate of 3% for merely 17 months, less than a third of the duration of todayís 0% rate environment. Rates rose across the yield curve, but more so on the short end, as traditional targeting by the Fed drove the gains, resulting in a bear flattening in the yield curve. The data of 2013/2014 appear to contrast to that of 1994 rather significantly. Earnings growth is currently running at a pace of 2.5%, and is forecast to rise to a peak of 13.5% over the next 12 months, quite short of growth rates in 1994. The LEI is has averaged a whopping yr/yr pace of growth of 3.4% over the last three months, half as strong as during the 1994 tightening cycle. Meanwhile, the Fed has been operating a 0% target rate for almost five years, while simultaneously amplifying marketsí sensitivity to policy via quantitative easing programs. As the FOMC has stated with great persistence over the last several months, and again last week, they have no intention of lifting the target rate, but plan to focus on tapering the purchase program first. The result of this policy maneuvering has been, and will likely continue to be, more pressure on the long end of the curve, as investors prepare for the eventual loss of Fed support. This means bear steepening, unlike the bear flattening of 1994, is probable. "We believe that all of these factors will matter for markets, and†likely make a transition away from monetary policy dependence†meaningfully more difficult than it was in 1994," says Adams. Factset, Bloomberg, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC She then lays out the case for why the removal of monetary stimulus points to contraction in valuation multiples: Yield curves that steepen via long rates rising, otherwise known as 'bear steepeners' tend to result in valuation contractions, suggesting the multiple for stocks will remain vulnerable as long as the longer-term trend in rates remains intact. There were 15 periods within the last 50 years in which the yield on the 10-year bond rose and the yield curve simultaneously steepened for a period of at least six months. These bear steepenings occurred alongside a wide range of results for stock prices, from a 33% correction in the mid-70s to a 39.7% gain in 1999. However, results were highly sensitive to earnings trends in each period. In the majority of cases, valuations contracted. Indeed, in 9 of 15 cases of bear steepeners that lasted 6 months or longer, equity multiples contracted, by an average of 1.3x. In order for stock prices to continue their upward march, earnings would have to pick up as multiples likely contract. At the present time, we do not see much upward momentum in earnings. Our estimates imply 4% earnings growth over the next 12 months and 7% in 2014 as a whole, quite contrary to the consensus expectation of 11.0% and 11.1%, respectively. Recall, earnings grew nearly 20% in 1994 to offset the valuation contraction that occurred while monetary policy was changing. Adams, like many others on Wall Street, sees tapering of quantitative easing fairly soon as a more-or-less foregone conclusion. "As rates rise on trend, we expect the equity market multiple to receive the brunt of the blow," says Adams. "If earnings can pick up some momentum, stock prices should manage to hold up relatively well. However, if earnings fail to surge, expect some struggles for stocks in the months ahead."
The financial crisis was more-or-less about debt-fueled (i.e. leveraged) economic growth that screeched to a halt when loan defaults caused the credit markets to seize. The post-crisis era has been characterized by countries, corporations, and individuals deleveraging their balance sheets. Some entities have been able to grow while deleveraging. Others have seen growth stagnate or fall. At its Global Economics &amp; Strategy Day last Friday, Morgan Stanley circulated a 97-page slide presentation that included this chart fixed income analyst Neil McLeish. It shows total debt (government, household, financial and corporate) as a percentage of GDP. Two things jump out: 1) debt-to-GDP has been on the rise for decades and 2) the U.S. has been doing a much better job of deleveraging than Europe. Morgan Stanley
The top-two ranking Senate Republicans on Monday came out against Sen. Ted Cruz's (R-Texas) plan to defund the Affordable Care Act by filibustering the continuing resolution that keeps the government funded.† Both Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and Sen. John Cornyn, the other Republican senator from Texas, did so in a roundabout way that signals how Republicans are going to approach their discontent with Cruz's plan.† Here's Cornyn's tweet: Twitter/@JohnCornyn McConnell will also not participate in a GOP filibuster. Like Cornyn, he will oppose an amendment to restore Obamacare funding in the continuing resolution, but he will not block the House-passed bill.† Here's the full statement from McConnell spokesman Don Stewart:† Senator McConnell supports the House Republicansí bill and will not vote to block it, since it defunds Obamacare and funds the government without increasing spending by a penny.† He will also vote against any amendment that attempts to add Obamacare funding back into the House Republicansí bill. If and when the Majority Leader goes down that path, Washington Democrats will have to decideówithout hiding behind a procedural voteówhether or not to split with their leadership and join Republicans and their constituents in opposing the re-insertion of Obamacare funding into the House-passed bill. Cornyn and McConnell's statements are more complicated than they look. Senate rules will make things a little awkward†for Cruz as the House-passed bill moves through the upper chamber. They make it possible for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to introduce an amendment to strip language in the House bill defunding Obamacare ó†after the Senate has voted to end debate on the bill. Votes to cut off debate require 60 votes (and therefore at least six Republican votes) but the vote on the amendment and on final passage will only require a simple majority, meaning Reid can get his way with only Democratic support on those votes. Cruz calls this approach a series of "procedural gimmicks" by Reid, but it's in keeping with normal Senate rules. A Republican filibuster would have to come before Democrats introduce an amendment to strip the language in the House-passed bill that defunds Obamacare. So, somewhat ironically, Cruz has signaled plans to filibuster the House-passed†bill that†includes†language to defund Obamacare.† In their statements, McConnell and Cornyn are saying that they will support the House bill that defunds Obamacare, but they hint that they will not go along with a plan to filibuster that same bill. That could be how other moderate GOP senators follow suit and allow a "clean" continuing resolution that doesn't defund Obamacare to pass the Senate. This post has been updated.
Reuters/Mike CasseseThis just in: Chrysler Group has filed for an initial public offering, with an initial registration of $100 million. JPMorgan is listed on the S-1 as the lead underwriter. "As of the date of this prospectus, Fiat held a 58.5 percent ownership interest in Chrysler Group and the [United Automobile Workers union's] VEBA Trust held the remaining 41.5 percent," said Chrysler in the filing. The "Use of Proceeds" section of the S-1 reads as follows: "The selling stockholder will receive all of the net proceeds from this offering, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions. We will not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares in this offering, including any proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholder pursuant to an exercise by the underwriters of their option to purchase additional shares." The "selling stockholder" referred to above is the UAW's VEBA Trust. Click here for the full prospectus ¬ª

REUTERS/Yuri GripasU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke testifies before the House Budget committee hearing on the state of the Economy on Capitol Hill in Washington, February 2, 2012.Remember when stocks exploded higher last Wednesday after Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke shocked the world? First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Breaking BadThe White's neighbor, "Carol," after she sees Walter return in an earlier episode's "forward-flash."WARNING: MINOR SPOILER ALERT In the latest episode of "Breaking Bad," we learn that the family home of meth kingpin Walter White is being sold at police auction. Carol, their neighbor, can't be happy.† Thanks to a recent study, we can actually quantify her displeasure. In his 2011 paper, "The Lasting Effects of Crime: The Relationship of†Discovered Methamphetamine Laboratories and Home†Values," Holy Cross econ professor†Joshua Congdon-Hohman calculates how much damage meth labs cause to surrounding home values after they're discovered. Although Walter White, aka Heisenberg, wasn't running a lab directly out of his home, it's safe to say its newfound association with his activities create similar conditions. We can also expand the paper's findings to Jesse Pinkman's first home, where he and Heisenberg had set up a lab; as well as Gus Fring's massive operation beneath a laundry, which Heisenberg burnt down. Using housing sales data from Akron, Ohio ó†home to that state's largest concentration of meth labs †ó†Congdon-Hohman finds the following: Here's the chart: Joshua Congdon-Hohman It turns out that home values within one-sixteenth of a mile of the lab don't show tremendous changes pre- and post-bust. That is presumably because, at such a close distance, the presence of the lab may be better known, Congdon-Hohman says. † Still, since meth labs are often better concealed than other types of illicit activity run out of homes, their presence may not be as obvious to someone living more than 600 feet away as they might be to someone living only 300 feet away, he says. So, since people's wealth is to a great degree tied to their home values, he writes, "From a policy perspective, this <U+FB01>nding suggests that government initiatives that would reduce the number of methamphetamine†labs should be well funded." We can actually complete the thought experiment for the White residence by looking at how much homes cost in the real-life neighborhood where externals are shot. That would be Albuquerque's Loma Del Rey neighborhood, where the median home price is currently $265,000. So a 10.5% decline would kick prices down to $237,175 for homes up the block, and declines to $253,075 for all of Loma. Thanks a lot, Mr. White.
Steve Jobs in 1984I am finally reading Walter Isaacson's excellent biography of Steve Jobs.† I'm about a third of the way through:†Jobs has dropped out of college, founded Apple, helped grow Apple into a $1+ billion public company, and launched the Macintosh. He has also resigned from Apple in disgust after being stripped of his operating role as head of the Mac division. As I was reading through the latter episode (listening, actually ó I have the audiobook version), I was struck by several things, one of which is important. In the past 15 years, the story has spread that the dumbest decision in corporate history was the Apple board's decision to oust Steve Jobs from the company in the spring of 1985. If the board hadn't ousted Steve Jobs, the story goes, Apple would have much more rapidly become what it later became ó the most successful, valuable, and beloved technology company on earth. But because the incompetent board did oust Steve Jobs, the story continues, Apple plunged into a decade of mismanaged mediocrity and nearly collapsed ó only to be rescued and restored by Steve Jobs. Based on Isaacson's biography, the story that Apple's board was stupid to oust Steve Jobs is not just 20-20 hindsight. It's revisionist history. The truth is that the then-30-year old Steve Jobs's out-of-control disruptive behavior and incompetence as the leader of the Mac division left Apple's board no choice. The board had to act. And once the board stripped Steve of his operating role, Steve's departure from the company was his own decision. Apple offered him the opportunity to become a "global product visionary," working with small teams to develop awesome new products. Steve toyed with the idea of that role for a few months, then quit and took five senior Mac people with him to start a new company, NeXT, to compete with Apple. Why did Apple's board have to remove Steve Jobs as head of the Mac division? For several reasons, which boiled down to this: At the young age of 30, Steve Jobs had many of the brilliant and rare skills that helped him later resurrect Apple ó but he didn't have all of them. And two of the key skills he lacked left him unable to do a competent job: In short, in 1985, the 30 year old Steve Jobs lacked both the emotional maturity and business discipline necessary to successfully run a company like Apple. He could certainly have contributed great ideas on the product side ó and Apple's struggles over the next decade showed how badly the company needed these ideas. But once the power to dictate Apple's decisions and direction was stripped from him, Steve was no longer happy at the company. (Another variant of the revisionist history is that the Apple board should have fired CEO John Scully and replaced him with a better CEO who could work with and effectively manage Jobs. This would have been vastly easier said than done. In fact, after reading Isaacson's stories about Jobs' behavior in those days, it seems unlikely that anyone could have effectively managed Jobs.) A decade later, when Steve Jobs returned to Apple, he had matured emotionally and acquired the management skills and leadership discipline that he had lacked at age 30. And he had kept some of the innate skills and traits that allowed him to inspire teams to produce such excellent products. That combination, we all now know, was unbeatable: In Steve's last 13 years at the company, Apple accomplished more than anyone could ever had dreamed of on the product side. It also became the world's most profitable and valuable company. And Steve's leadership was critical to both. But as a young, impetuous, narcissistic 30 year old, Steve could not deliver that leadership. Those who find Steve Jobs' accomplishments as inspiring as I do might view the reality of his departure from Apple in 1985 as a criticism ó a knock on Steve's much-deserved legend. But it isn't a knock. It actually makes Steve's story even more inspiring. During his time in the wilderness ó the ~12 years he spent away from the company that became his life's work ó Steve learned the skills and discipline that he needed to lead Apple's resurrection. Steve wasn't born with those skills. He developed them. And his success in developing them should inspire anyone willing to adopt the simple, powerful goal of getting better every day. SEE ALSO: Some Of The Amazing Things Walter Isaacson Learned About Steve Jobs Simon & Schuster
Clusterstock Select is an easy-to-read daily email newsletter that rounds up top headlines, analysis, and video covering Wall Street and the financial services industry. Signing up is quick and easy.¬† Use the form below to enter your information then click the "Sign Up" button. ¬† ¬† ¬†
YouTubeThe letters of intent have been signed ‚Äî Canadian firm Fairfax Financial has offered to buy BlackBerry for $9 a share and take the company private. That means the BlackBerry is now in the hands of Prem Watsa, a man known as the 'Warren Buffett of Canada.' Watsa has been Chairman and CEO of Fairfax Holdings since he founded the company in 1985, and he controls half the voting rights of the company. That likely means he's amassed a great fortune ‚Äî reports put it in the billions ‚Äî but it's hard to pin down exactly how many billions because, as the Toronto Star put it in a 2009 profile, Watsa is "the richest, savviest guy you‚Äôve never heard of." In short: Watsa does not care for fame. Unfortunately for him, his story and track record are attention grabbers. Watsa was born in Hyderabad, India in 1950 and was orphaned as a boy. He shined in school despite his misfortune, and ended up studying chemical¬† engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology. For business school he emigrated to Canada (with $8 in his pocket, say some reports) and attended the University of Western Ontario. When the time came, Watsa modeled his holding company after Warren Buffett's. He's a die-hard value investor and one of his kids is named after famed value man Ben Graham. After founding Fairfax Watsa's own legend grew. He predicted the 1987 crash, Japan's crash in the 1990s, and the most recent global financial crisis ‚Äî though he may have been a little early on that one (from the Financial Post): In 2007, Fairfax, Canada's largest property and casualty insurer, posted profits of US$1.095-billion compared with US$227.5-million in 2006. In 2008, as more bad news hit markets everywhere, Fairfax's profit soared to US$631.8-million in the first quarter. Since then Watsa has warned about Canada's housing market and won big on an investment in the Bank of Ireland. Good stuff, but Watsa's still come up against some major headwinds in his career, and one of them has a name ‚Äî Dan Loeb. Back in 2006 a bunch of hedge funds were shorting Fairfax ‚Äî Jim Chanos' Kynikos, Steve Cohen's SAC Capital, and Loeb's Third Point. Loeb was especially graphic about his feelings on Watsa in e-mails, and when Fairfax sued this group of hedge fund managers, Loeb's comments were made public. Check this one out, from Reuters: "Prem Watsa bend over the hedge funds have something special for you," Loeb wrote in the June 25, 2006 email to Adam Sender, the founder of Exis Capital, whose hedge fund also was "shorting" Fairfax -- that is, looking to profit from a decline in its shares. A little later that day, in an email to a consultant who was doing research for some of the hedge funds wagering on Fairfax's fall, Loeb wrote: "die, Prem Die!" Not the most professional thing to say about a fellow CEO, but it's more than likely Watsa's shaken off by now. With BlackBerry, he has bigger fish to fry.
For months, the Federal Reserve prepared the markets for a tapering of its large-scale asset purchase (LSAP) program, the monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds. LSAP, also known as quantitative easing, was introduced as an effort to stimulate the economy by keeping interest rates low. And almost everyone had been led to believe the tapering would be announced last Wednesday. But then the Fed shocked everyone by saying that it would keep LSAP as is. A bunch of Federal Reserve officials are speaking this week, including Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher who is speaking to the Independent Bankers Association in San Antonio. Here's an excerpt from his speech where he discusses last week's shocker (emphasis added): ...As I said at the beginning of my remarks, I am going to try to avoid answering questions you might have about last weekís FOMC meeting and what some in the press have now labeled ìthe taper caper.î Nearly every Federal Reserve Bank president and his or her sister will be speaking to this topic this week, so you will be getting an earful of cacophonous comments on this subject. Today, I will simply say that I disagreed with the decision of the committee and argued against it. Here is a direct quote from the summation of my intervention at the table during the policy ìgo roundî when Chairman [Ben] Bernanke called on me to speak on whether or not to taper: ìDoing nothing at this meeting would increase uncertainty about the future conduct of policy and call the credibility of our communications into question.î I believe that is exactly what has occurred, though I take no pleasure in saying so. Enough said. Thank you for what you do for the business and citizens of Texas. And thank you for listening. Credibility was just one of many non-economic reasons that experts used in their forecasts for a taper. "In the case of tapering, the most common rationale used to explain why the Fed will taper in September deals with Fed credibility," wrote Morgan Stanley's Matthew Hornbach a week before the FOMC announcement. "Given the market expects the Fed to taper in September and the Fed has yet to push back in a meaningful way, not tapering would cause investors to lose faith in future Fed communications and create undue volatility. We find this logic flawed." Ultimately, it was the Fed's up-to-minute views of the economic data that trumped the risk of losing credibility. "The Fed does not pander to market expectations," said Hornbach.
BlackBerry just received an offer to go private from Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited for $9 per share, or $4.7 billion. Fairfax signed a letter of intent for the offer.¬†To be clear, this is not a done deal. BlackBerry's board has agreed to the terms in the letter, but BlackBerry can still seek other offers. Fairfax already owns about 10% of BlackBerry. BlackBerry is currently trading at about $8.20 per share. BlackBerry and Fairfax are now entering a "diligence period" where a number of conditions must be met. This diligence period should last about six weeks. We'll get more details on November 4. Last week, BlackBerry announced that it plans to cut 4,500 jobs. It also said it lost nearly $1 billion last quarter. Here's the statement from BlackBerry: WATERLOO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Sept. 23, 2013) -¬†BlackBerry Limited (BBRY)(BB.TO) today announced it has signed a letter of intent agreement ("LOI") under which a consortium to be led by Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited ("Fairfax") has offered to acquire the company subject to due diligence. The letter of intent contemplates a transaction in which BlackBerry shareholders would receive U.S. $9 in cash for each share of BlackBerry share they hold, in a transaction valued at approximately U.S. $4.7 billion. The consortium would acquire for cash all of the outstanding shares of BlackBerry not held by Fairfax. Fairfax, which owns approximately 10 percent of BlackBerry's common shares, intends to contribute the shares of BlackBerry it currently holds into the transaction. The BlackBerry Board of Directors, acting on the recommendation of a special committee of the board of directors (the "Special Committee"), approved the terms of the LOI under which the consortium, which is seeking financing from BofA Merrill Lynch and BMO Capital Markets, would acquire BlackBerry and take the company private subject to a number of conditions, including due diligence, negotiation and execution of a definitive agreement (the "Definitive Agreement") and customary regulatory approvals. The Special Committee, chaired by Director Tim Dattels, was formed in August 2013 to review strategic alternatives for the company. J.P. Morgan and Perella Weinberg are acting as financial advisors and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom LLP and Torys LLP are acting as legal advisors.¬† Diligence is expected to be complete by November 4, 2013 ("Diligence Period").¬†The parties' intention is to negotiate and execute a definitive transaction agreement by such date.¬†During such period, BlackBerry is permitted to actively solicit, receive, evaluate and potentially enter into negotiations with parties that offer alternative proposals ("Alternative Transactions"). If (A) during the Diligence Period (i) BlackBerry enters into any letter of intent or definitive agreement providing for an Alternative Transaction, (ii) BlackBerry ceases to negotiate with the consortium in good faith with a view to entering into the Definitive Agreement by the end of the Diligence Period,¬†or (iii) an Alternative Transaction is publicly proposed or publicly announced and is consummated within 6 months following the end of the Diligence Period, or (B) during the 3 month period following the end of the Diligence Period, BlackBerry enters into any agreement providing for an Alternative Transaction with a person with whom discussions were held before or during the Diligence Period, then BlackBerry shall pay Fairfax a fee of U.S. $0.30 per BlackBerry share, provided, however, that no such fee shall be payable if the consortium shall have reduced the price offered below U.S. $9.00 per share without the approval of the board of directors of¬†BlackBerry.¬†In the event that a definitive agreement is signed with Fairfax the termination fee will increase to U.S. $ 0.50 per share. Barbara Stymiest, Chair of BlackBerry's Board of Directors, said: "The Special Committee is seeking the best available outcome for the Company's constituents, including for shareholders. Importantly, the go-shop process provides an opportunity to determine if there are alternatives superior to the present proposal from the Fairfax consortium." Prem Watsa, Chairman and CEO of Fairfax, said: "We believe this transaction will open an exciting new private chapter for BlackBerry, its customers, carriers and employees. We can deliver immediate value to shareholders, while we continue the execution of a long-term strategy in a private company with a focus on delivering superior and secure enterprise solutions to BlackBerry customers around the world." In addition to the consortium and its lenders being satisfied with all aspects of the due diligence to be carried out by them during the Diligence Period and the negotiation and execution of a binding definitive agreement approved by the board of BlackBerry, completion of the transaction will be subject to other customary conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals.¬†There can be no assurance that due diligence will be satisfactory, that financing will be obtained, that a definitive agreement will be entered into or that the transaction will be consummated. BDT &amp; Company, LLC, BofA Merrill Lynch and BMO Capital Markets are acting as financial advisors, and Shearman &amp; Sterling LLP and McCarthy¬†T√©trault¬†LLP are acting as legal advisors to Fairfax in connection with the transaction.
Blackberry has entered into a letter of intent to be acquired for $9/share. Here's a quick reason why that's sad. That's below where it was just on Friday morning, before it announced massive layoffs, and more terrible results. Yahoo Finance
Getty Images/Mario TamaBlackBerry shares have been halted again, as the company has received an offer to be bought out and taken private. The company says more news is coming. For more details click here.
REUTERS/BabuIndia is in desperate need of reforms. With economic growth at a ten-year low, the rupee down over 12% year-to-date against the dollar, capital outflows, and collapsing corporate profits, it's no surprise that biggest story in India over the next year are the May 2014 elections. Unfortunately, the government isn't expected to pass any major reforms between now and May 2014, and risk voter wrath. What's worse, it's looking less likely that the incoming government will have the clear majority needed to pass any drastic, growth-stimulating reforms. The latest opinion polls show the Congress party (which is largely expected to push populist measures) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP - which is fiscally conservative and focused on a development agenda) losing ground to a "third-front coalition." The third-front refers to† regional parties, that are now expected to win nearly 50% of seats in parliament. India holds general elections every five years, so, if elected, this third-front could stay in power till 2019. The president can however dissolve the lower house of parliament in extreme circumstances and call for general elections before the five-years are up. The rise of the third front is bad news because the smaller parties have their own agendas and are likely to push for reforms centered on certain regions or communities, and are "unlikely to have strong national policies," argues CLSA analyst Mahesh Nandurkar. "We see the chances of a weak leadership largely made up of regional parties - each with their own agenda and incapable of pursuing the bold reforms needed to kick-start Indiaís economy - as the most probable scenario," writes Nandurkar. "This would usher in a period of prolonged weak and patchy policy making." And the make-up of the government is likely to moves markets. From Nandurkar: "Market reaction to electoral results can be strong and immediate. Following 2009 election results, the market moved rallied 17% over two days as the ruling Congress won a stronger-than-expected mandate. After the 2004 result, the market dropped 17% in two days as the right wing BJP lost unexpectedly and a Congress coalition, supported by left-wing parties, came to power. In both cases, Congress won the elections." Nandurkar expects a third-front coalition to claim 200 - 250 seats. He expects both the BJP and Congress to "woo" the regional parties and form alliances. Of course political alliances are prone to change and the results of the upcoming state elections in November and December will also weigh on the 2104 elections. Moreover, there are 70 million new voters, or 10% of the electorate, that will take part in the 2014 elections and this could also impact the outcome.† Earlier this year, the Financial Times reported that in a "confidential note" the IMF was forced to make "a humbling series of U-turns over its global economic assessment."At a time when growth in developed markets is just beginning to return, emerging markets have failed be the engine of growth that the world had come to expect. This is obviously key for foreign investors and businesses looking to make a footprint in India.
With sagging profits in recent years, hedge funds have looked to any possible strategy for an investment edge. Now they are using one readily available to everyone¬†‚Äî the Freedom of Information Act. The Wall Street Journal's Brody Mullins and Christopher Weaver report that sophisticated investors are using FOIA as a way to obtain market-moving information about various companies. An FDA report on a pharmaceutical company would be one example. From the Journal: A review by The Wall Street Journal of more than 100,000 of the roughly three million FOIA requests filed over the past five years, including all of those sent to the FDA, shows that investors use the process to troll for all kinds of information. They ask the Environmental Protection Agency about pollution regulations, the Department of Energy about grants for energy-efficient vehicles, and the Securities and Exchange Commission about whether publicly held companies are under investigation. The Journal found that SAC Capital, Steve Cohen's embattled firm, is¬†particularly interested in the FOIA strategy. And while¬†SAC may be facing legal action for other alleged wrongdoings, FOIA is perfectly legal. "Investors say they rarely make trades solely based on information obtained through the open-records law, but that such material helps them to piece together investment strategies or evaluate a company's prospects," according to the Journal. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal¬†¬ª

REUTERS/Mathieu BelangerGold prices surged 5.6% in the 24 hours after the Federal Reserve announced it would not taper its bond buying program, reaching as high as $1,371/oz. At $1,327/oz today, gold prices are still remain above their pre-Sept. 18 level of less than $1,300/oz. The fact that the Fed will continue with its easy monetary policy as is is considered bearish for the dollar and bullish for gold. But this is not a permanent trend, argues Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson. "While any further postponement [of the taper] would likely continue to benefit gold prices in the near term, we still think it is just delaying the inevitable," said Longson in a note to clients today. 'The longer-term narrative for gold remains in place ñ waning investor appetite for a risk and inflation hedge, challenged physical demand and a rising USD. We envision gold prices averaging in a US$1,200-1,350/oz range in the coming year before trending lower in the following [one]." And he has an equally bearish view of silver, putting prices at $21.01 for 2014. They're now at $21.89: The sharp deterioration in the outlook for the gold price that led us to turn increasingly negative toward gold has had a similar impact on silver, as the cheap proxy for the gold market. Just as the fall in gold prices made a clear and decisive break of the uptrend price channel for that metal, so, too, in silver. End of an era.
It's not all Dilly bars and Cherry Cokes when Warren Buffett takes over your company, Bloomberg reports. When the Oracle of Omaha decides you're ready for Berkshire ‚Äî at least in Heinz's case ‚Äî it's time for some serious changes. Earlier this year Buffett teamed up with Brazil's richest man, Jorge Paulo Lemann, and his private equity firm 3G, to buy Heinz in a $23 billion deal. Now it's time to make the company really sing (and pay down the $12.6 billion of debt that had be taken on to do the deal). That means cutting costs. All kinds of costs ‚Äî like 11 senior executives. From Bloomberg: An August memo obtained by Bloomberg News outlines new rules. They limit printing to 200 pages a month per employee and restrict color pages to ‚Äúcustomer-facing purposes.‚Äù Employees can spend no more than $15 a month on office supplies and are expected to reuse items such as box files. To save on electricity, mini-refrigerators ‚Äúare not permitted moving forward‚Äù and staff should rely on appliances in common areas. Employee spending on business trips was limited to $45 per day for food and incidentals, two of the people said. The aviation department, which included two leased aircraft and a company-owned Gulfstream IV, was shut, according to one. Not the G-IV, anything but the G-IV. There are also the 600 job cuts that are expected in the U.S. and Canada, and 250 jobs in peril in the U.K.¬† It looks like, on the east side of the Atlantic, lawyers are particularly concerned (from thelawyer.com): In a statement Heinz said: ‚ÄúAfter a comprehensive evaluation process, the company has developed a proposed new streamlined structure for Heinz UK &amp; Ireland. ‚ÄúUnfortunately, the proposals may result in a number of difficult organizational changes, including the elimination of 248 office positions across the UK and Ireland. We regret the impact this may have on Heinz employees and their families. ‚ÄúThe proposal is subject to a consultation process with employees and their representatives, and Heinz is committed to ensuring all employees are treated with the utmost respect and compassion. Still sounds rough.
Bill Tai/FacebookSince helping to establish the now-giant Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company in 1987, Bill Tai has kept busy putting millions of dollars into early-stage technology start-ups around the world. Tai told Business Insider he had invested in some 110 companies in the past 22 years, of which 19 went public, 20 were acquired, and ìabout five or sixî shut down. He now has a stake in about 30 companies around the world, including two in China, two in Japan, five in Australia, one in Brazil, and others in the US and Europe. Of those, he is a board member of only 10, but keeps a close eye on his other investments as the founders tend to actively seek his advice, or run in the same social circles. Tai is a sponsored kiteboarder; he says 70% of his investments have founders that share his passion for the sport. Globally, Tai says he looks for entrepreneurs who are ìdriven, willing to fail-fast and learn from their mistakes and keep goingî. ìIíd look for a world-class entrepreneur looking for a big market, and wanting to grow a company that could be a hit,î he adds. ìMike [Cannon-Brookes] is a great role model, and as soon as Atlassian goes public he will be even more iconic than he already is.î There are also certain ingredients that he looks for in each region. Here are the benefits and drawbacks that he sees: USA In the USA, I tend to bet on people because itís such a competitive market because if you have traction and a B team, the A team is going to beat you anyway. Iíd say the average level of talent in the Valley is stronger [than in Australia] because people tend to be more experienced. But great entrepreneurs are great entrepreneurs; they just need access to the right resources. If Steve Jobs grew up in Australia, heíd still be Steve Jobs. China I definitely wonít do hardware companies in China. I wonít invest in companies that have heavy assets in China because the government can take it away. The reason I invested in [web browser company] Maxthon is because itís defensible. They have an open source community of developers ñ no one can take that away. Europe I funded TweetDeck out of the UK; that had a lot of traction. Luluvise is another app that was in the top 20 of the iPhone [App] Store for awhile. Those companies had inexperienced entrepreneurs but great traction, and just needed help steering it. Australia Freelancer.com and 99designs probably found their footing here a little more easily than [in the US]; I think thatís because they had access to highly skilled labour in other countries. Those companies are in effect an English-language bridge to skilled design and coding labour in third-world markets. A lot of design talent on 99designs for example comes from Indonesia and the Philippines so I think the proximity to those regions puts them in a better competitive condition. Shoes of Prey is in a similar timezone as China and has people in factories in China. if they have issues, they just call them [from Australia]. So even though the vast majority of their customers are from the UK or US for example, it would have been harder to set up a company there. Itís subtle and itís not a huge thing but it matters. Tai was in Sydney last week for the Startup Spring Festival and annual OZapp pitching contest, which runs alongside his ìMai Taiî kiteboarding event for entrepreneurs in Perth. Australians can thank kiteboarding for bringing Tai to the country in the first place: he became involved with local start-ups about four years ago when he was invited to speak at a university event, but admits it was that the opportunity to kiteboard in Perth that pushed him over the line. And just in case you think Taiís overegging the kiteboarding reference, hereís Kym McNicholas over at Pandodaily on the high-flying phenomenon: I canít tell you how many times entrepreneurs have asked me to introduce them to Sir Richard Branson, who Iíve interviewed a number of times. ìLearn to kiteboard,î I tell them, ìand Iím certain youíll run across him on the water at some point.î
Deutsche Bank has published its "Equity House View" report, which includes a map of economic anecdotes from various business sectors in the U.S., Europe and China. Summary: everyone's looking pretty good.¬† Most notable: Europe has eliminated all its "red boxes," which indicate negative news. That wasn't the case in April. Check it out: Deutsche Bank
Last week Kyle Bass explained why he's long the Argentine economy at the Alpha Hedge West Conference, this week independent economists are forecasting the country's consumer inflation rate will hit a record highs before the end of the year. So where's the disconnect? Bass thinks that Argentina's economic problems can be solved in two years with a new regime in place. Marketfolly has some quotes from Bass' interview (we've edited them for clarity): People don't understand what is happening there. Lots of things there are fixable. The leadership in control has "issues". Energy has been an issue, but recently there have been major energy findings that will change that. Two years from now, he (Bass) thinks there will be a new President in October 2015 and pro business people will be running things to take advantage of vast prairies of nature resources. Argentina's problems can be fixed in 2 years. Now is the time to start investing. Sees 50% upside in the sovereign debt. Basically what Bass is saying is that once Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, Argentina's fiery populist-ish President with a cult-like following, is gone, a more favorable government can go in and overhaul the economy. And indeed the winds of political change have blown in Argentina, even if softly. Fernandez de Kirchner's party had a nasty time of last month's mid-term elections, garnering 30% of the country's vote down from 52% two years before. But lets be real, Fernandez de Kirchner's 'Victory Party' is still in power. The opposition still has yet to coalesce around a strong leader. The closest thing is Mauricio Macri, the technocratic mayor of Buenos Aires. He's called out the country's official inflation numbers, launching his own index for his city. Macri's also said that, as President, he would pay Spain back for Argentina's controversial expropriation of Spanish energy company YPF, and made it clear that he thinks Argentina's upcoming legislative elections in October will "define in what kind of democracy the Argentineans would like to live." This is the kind of guy Kyle Bass is talking about. Someone that wants to pay back debts and repair Argentina's reputation as an dishonest broker in international markets. A grown-up, as the Financial Times might put it. And maybe Macri has a shot. Those latest independant inflation numbers show prices rising not among the rich, but among the poor and middle class ó they're looking at a rate of about 36.2%, which is up 4.5% from August. Lower income Argentines are Fernandez de Kirchner's base, so maybe if they start to feel a pinch, they'll let go of the populism, the Peronism, and the Kirchnerism and embrace something new. But then again, one should never discount the power of a political machine and a cult of personality. Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner has both.
Fill a modern room on the bank of Lake Valdai¬†last week¬†with a couple of hundred academicians and reporters, most of them from states bent on regime change in Russia, and the headline question they want to debate is: will President Vladimir Putin (standing figure centre) run for re-election in 2018?According to the presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov ‚Äì his job is to say as little and as ambiguously as possible ‚Äî the question is premature. ‚ÄúDespite the fact that Vladimir Putin‚Äôs presidential term has just started, this question was also inexplicably present among other ones. Answering this untimely and not topical question, the president said that he really did not rule this out. To a rhetorical question, an appropriate answer was given.‚Äù In point (pin) of fact, Putin initiated the question himself. He asked former French Prime Minister Francois Fillon, who was at the same Valdai session with Putin, and also former European Commission President Romano Prodi, if Fillon would run for the presidency. Fillon said he would only say if Putin answered the question in relation to himself. ‚ÄúI do not rule out the possibility,‚Äù Putin responded. Later to a reporter‚Äôs question he added: ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs only 2013 today, there are another five years ahead of us.‚Äù Denis Charlet/ReutersEveryone, even the French present, appeared to miss one of the points Putin was making. He was attacking the incumbent President of France Francois Hollande publicly, and not for the first time. This time round it was Fillon‚Äôs turn, ‚Äî earlier it was Gerard Depardieu‚Äôs and Dominique Strauss-Kahn‚Äôs ‚Äî to play foil to a warning of how badly Russia‚Äôs relationship with France has been damaged by¬†Hollande. Fillon‚Äôs presidential campaign is no news in France. It started¬†last month. By giving the French presidential campaign prominence in Novgorod on Thursday, Putin was once again inviting French voters to put an end to the incumbent; and, incidentally, to invite the right wing in France not to repeat its mistake with Nicolas Sarkozy. But Putin‚Äôs reference to the five years left before he announces his presidential intention is another point the academic audience in front of him also missed. Five years is a long time in politics, Peskov wanted to emphasize. It‚Äôs also a short time, Putin was warning. That warning has been made crystal clear to Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev (bubble top left) and his deputy Arkady Dvorkovich (top right), by another of Putin‚Äôs men. It‚Äôs a warning against trying to assemble the half-billion dollar campaign fund necessary to run; and against recruiting the oligarchs whom Medvedev and Dvorkovich count on to pressure (pay) Putin into retirement. johnhelmer.netThe angel of this negative annunciation is Igor Sechin (right), formerly first deputy prime minister, then chief executive of Rosneft,¬†and potentially the prime ministerial replacement if Medvedev and Dvorkovich continue plotting the regime change which they failed to achieve between 2010 and 2012. For years now Sechin has been attacking Gazprom‚Äôs power to serve Medvedev‚Äôs ambitions by curtailing the cashflow from its monopoly over Russian gas exports. He is now within weeks of his biggest success. Until now, Gazprom‚Äôs monopoly¬†has been fixed¬†in the federal law 117-FZ of July 18, 2006. This brief statute sets out the ‚Äúbases of state regulation of gas export proceeding from the need to protect the economic interests of the Russian Federation, execution of the international obligations for gas export, ensuring receipt of income for the federal budget, and maintenance of fuel and energy balance of the Russian Federation.‚Äù Without naming Gazprom, Article 3, Section 1 orders that ‚Äúthe exclusive right to gas export is provided to the organization ‚Äì the owner of the uniform system of gas supply or its subsidiary in whose authorized capital the organization shares.‚Äù The federal Energy Ministry has now finalized changes to this provision; they will allow exports by competing Russian gas producers, starting with Novatek, controlled by Sechin allies Gennady Timchenko and Leonid Mikhelson, as well as Sechin‚Äôs own Rosneft to obtain their own licences for shipment of liquefied natural gas (LNG). This is a precondition for Novatek to finance the multi-billion dollar expenditure required for its Yamal LNG project and the Sabetta port terminal on the Karsk Sea. The new measure is likely to clear the State Duma and Federation Council by the close of December. It will include a provision for extra government supervision to prevent the gas producers undercutting each other‚Äôs export prices. Dmitry Astakhov / APAlexei Miller (right), the chief executive of Gazprom for the past twelve years, has survived by bowing under Sechin‚Äôs pressure. Ziyavudin Magomedov (bubble, bottom) has resisted ‚Äî and is surviving less assuredly. His takeover of the two leading oil ports, Novorossiysk and Primorsk,¬†three years ago¬†has run into the concerted opposition from Sechin‚Äôs allies, Nikolai Tokarev at Transneft, Vladimir Yakunin at Russian Railways, and Timchenko at the rival Baltic port of Ust-Luga. Together, they are denying Magomedov his ambition to create the energy trading and transportation empire he has been aiming at. Medvedev and Dvorkovich have been too weak to save him, or even to conserve his capital. The share price of the Novorossiysk Commercial Seaport Company is now trading at 40% less than¬†Magomedov‚Äôs takeover price. Magomedov‚Äôs appeals to Gazprom to protect him from Sechin aren‚Äôt being endorsed¬†by Miller. Not even¬†Magmomedov‚Äôs proposal¬†to finance the Valdai Club and get a leg up among the Anglo-American members is likely to improve his prospects. Announcing Magomedov‚Äôs appointment to the Valdai board on September 9, the club chairman and academic, Sergei Karaganov, revealed how desperate the Club is for sponsors, and how out of date politically: ‚ÄúThe Summa Group [Magomedov‚Äôs holding] is one of Russia‚Äôs most dynamically developing holdings with a truly global vision, which is extremely valuable in this rapidly changing world. The company has repeatedly initiated discussions at the international level on issues related to its business. I‚Äôm confident that Mr. Magomedov‚Äôs participation in the Club‚Äôs work will allows us to raise the discussion of these vital national issues to an entirely new level.‚Äù On its website homepage, the Club¬†has posted¬†a disclaimer of this sort of thing ‚Äî ‚Äúsome material may be inappropriate for children under 12.‚Äù The commercial details vary in each of these complex stories. The political meaning is constant, and simple. Suleiman Kerimov (bubble, left), the Senator from Dagestan, evidently failed to notice when he attempted his¬†potash putsch. In Dagestan, the interpretation is that misfortune has befallen the two native sons, Magomedov and Kerimov, because they have been on the wrong side of the conflict between the Kremlin and Magomedsalam Magomedov, the Dagestan President, until he was replaced in January by Ramazan Abdulatipov. ‚ÄúDagestan was fed, but not taken care of,‚Äù Abdulatipov told Putin at a Kremlin interview in August, ‚Äúand therefore a lot of bad cells have multiplied.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe cases of Kerimov and [Ziyavudin] Magomedov are connected with the replacement of the Dagestan elite,‚Äù according to a source who believes both of them are among the ‚Äúbad cells‚Äù Abdulatipov is now eliminating. A source close to Sechin believes the stakes are more national than local. He is predicting that other oligarch-sized figures with businesses dependent on Medvedev and Dvorkovich must choose to withdraw and realign themselves, or else suffer the same fate. The fertilizer and coal businesses of Andrei Melnichenko ‚Äì Eurochem and SUEK ‚Äì are vulnerable, according to this¬†calculation. So too are Yandex, the search engine and internet portal, and Ilim Pulp. Since he became prime minister, Medvedev has allowed himself to meet one on one and in public with no major Russian business figures. The two exceptions are Andrei Volozh, the control shareholder of Yandex; and Zakhar Smushkin, the control shareholder of Ilim Pulp. For the political risks facing Yandex, read¬†this. A source familiar with Ilim‚Äôs business comments: ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt think they‚Äôre big enough to be of interest.‚Äù NOTE: Ziyavudin Magomedov turns out to be the only member of the Valdai Club‚Äôs board of trustees who wishes to publicize the appointment. When Sergei Karaganov, the Club‚Äôs chairman, was asked to identify the other trustees, he refused, claiming the list is on the Valdai Club website. When informed the list cannot be found there, he hung up his telephone.
flickr/Jo NaylorIn the past week or so, we've seen several strategists on Wall Street put out really bullish calls on the stock market, especially in the wake of the Federal Reserve's surprise decision last Wednesday to refrain from tapering back quantitative easing. Deutsche Bank chief U.S. equity strategist David Bianco says the S&amp;P 500 now has a "straight shot to 1800" without a 5% correction. BMO chief investment strategist Brian Belski ratcheted up his year-end S&amp;P 500 price target to 1800 from 1650, saying stocks could ride all the way to 1900 on continued easy money from the Fed. ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas argues that "the classic setup for a Q4 melt-up rally" is in place. And Barry Knapp, one of the most bearish equity strategists on Wall Street in 2013, finally cranked up his year-end S&amp;P 500 price target to 1800 from 1600, also on account of recent Fed developments. Against this backdrop comes an interesting anecdote from Morgan Stanley's top economist Joachim Fels, who says that "if you happen to be a contrarian, you should probably sell stocks till your hands bleed, and then sell some more." In his "Sunday Start" note to clients, Fels writes: If you happen to be a contrarian, you should probably sell stocks till your hands bleed, and then sell some more. Why? All the five seasoned investors representing large pools of money on the panel I moderated at our 4th annual Global Economics &amp; Strategy Day in Frankfurt on Friday were constructive on equities, and almost all of the around 200 investment professionals in the audience seemed to agree.  The consensus on the panel was that the global economy continues to recover, interest rates will rise moderately, valuations are ok, earnings will accelerate, and European equities look more attractive than other regions. The only major divergence in view was over Japan, where the bulls argued ìdonít fight the BoJî, while the bears lamented the lack of structural reforms. Still, despite the broad overall agreement, it was a lively panel discussion that even touched on diverse topics such as cows, communists, and correlations ñ but thatís a story for another day and I only mention it because one of my favourite colleagues asked me to.  While I have a strong contrarian streak, I confess I side with the consensus at the moment, along with our own strategists who are constructive on developed-market equities. The global macro backdrop remains supportive and is pretty much following the DM ëAccelerationí, EM ëStabilisationí, and central bank ëAccommodationí script we laid out in our Back-to-School Global Macro Outlook three weeks ago. In fact, monetary policy now remains even more accommodative than we expected as the Federal Reserveís FOMC surprised us and almost everybody else on Wednesday by not tapering its bond purchases. That sounds like a pretty good snapshot of the mood on Wall Street at the moment.
REUTERSOn Friday Rolling Stone's Matt Taibbi alerted readers to a column on Forbes.com from a man named Harry Binswanger. The column is called "Give Back? Yes, It's Time For The 99% To Give Back To The 1%" It does not appear to be a joke. Nor does Binswanger. Here is his Amazon page. According to his bio, Binswanger earned his Ph.D in philosophy from Columbia and now serves as "a professor of philosophy at the Objectivist Academic Center of the Ayn Rand Institute," a non-profit based in Irvine, Calif. that coordinates spreading the gospel of Rand's objectivist philosophy. So it seems we have to take everything we're about to show you from Binswanger at face value. We've reached out to him, but haven't heard back. Here then, are the five most unbelievable lines from the piece.
BigThinkWe caught up with hedge fund manager Bill Ackman at an event in the Upper East Side last night for the Oxford Pershing Square Graduate Scholars Programme launch.¬† For Ackman, a large part of his philanthropic activities focus on education, primarily early and high school education.¬† So we asked the activist investor if he thinks students today are receiving a sufficient knowledge on investing. ¬† "You know it's interesting. I've actually always thought that high school education should include a program on everything on how to get a mortgage, how to manage your personal finances, credit cards, student loans. ¬†When you think about the subprime crisis, a lot of that was caused by people who were fairly unsophisticated about finance in many cases not understanding the ramifications of what an adjustable mortgage is and what Libor is and all the factors are..." he explained. Maybe he should teach.

Julia La Roche for Business InsiderBill Ackman, Dr. Paul Farmer and Dean Peter Tufano Hedge fund billionaire Bill Ackman, the CEO of $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, is funding a scholarship program aimed at helping social entrepreneurs receive an MBA from the University of Oxford.¬† The Pershing Square Foundation, a charitable organization Ackman co-founded with his wife Karen, announced the launch of the Oxford Pershing Square Graduate Scholars Program last night with¬†a gift of $6.6 million to endow the scholarships. ¬† The purpose of the scholarship program is to bring on young leaders and innovators who want to "address world-scale challenges for the benefit of society." Social entrepreneurs are people who want to find solutions for social problems. ¬†For example, one of the students is helping shrimp farmers in Southeast Asia use low cost instrumentation to measure water salinity. These aren't MBA students who want to work for hedge funds or investment banks. ¬†¬† Julia La Roche for Business InsiderPrivate equity tycoon Stephen A. Schwarzman with Dean Tufano.  Schwarzman recently started a scholarship program to help students study in China.The PSF has endowed up to five fully funded Scholarships each year¬†for the MBA component of¬†Oxford's 1+1 program, which allows students to do the one-year Oxford MBA paired with one of many of the university's other master's programs.¬† The scholarship program is open to students globally. The first group of scholars will start in the fall of 2014. What makes this program such an obvious choice is that it gives students "depth and breadth,"¬†Oxford's¬†Sa√Ød Business School Dean Peter Tufano explained to Business Insider. "It takes both domain expertise and management skills to solve problems. Simply having a broad set of skills without knowing the facts about the problem it's really hard to, for example, address issues of water policy, address environmental issues, fix education. All of these things require that you know something about the underlying phenomenon. So what we've created with our 1+1 program is an ability to first get depth and then get breadth of management skills," Tufano¬†said. Tufano was Ackman's finance professor at Harvard Business School, so we had to ask him what he was like as a student. "I think he's like the person that you see now‚Äî very smart, determined, asked lots of questions," he said. ¬†He couldn't remember where Ackman sat in the classroom, but that didn't matter. You knew he was there.¬† We caught up with Ackman at a reception at the Park Avenue Armory last night in Manhattan's Upper East Side to¬†celebrate¬†the new partnership between the Sa√Ød Business School and The¬†Pershing¬†Square¬†Foundation. He recalled his school days for us.  "I remember it well. I can say I learned a lot. So pay it back."¬†¬† The activist/long term value investor, who usually focuses on early and high school education, told us why he's so excited about this scholarship. "Higher education has plenty of support. I'm more concerned with early education, frankly, and high school education. This is sort of a unique thing this is supporting people who want to be social entrepreneurs and giving them the opportunity to get a business school education and that's why I think it's important," Ackman told us in an interview. Despite increasing costs with higher education, Ackman, who graduated from Harvard and Harvard Business School, still believes it's a viable investment for most Americans.¬† Julia La Roche for Business InsiderAckman's father Larry and his wife Karen. "Yes, but I would say the the following: The problem with a business school degree is that it's very expensive and you have to take, in order to pay back your loans, a very high paying job, which pushes people to Wall Street and consulting and those kind of jobs, not that there's anything wrong with that. But the talented entrepreneur that wants to save the world it's hard, save-the-world jobs tend not to pay well. So if you're burdened with student loans absent from having the resources from your family it's hard for you to pursue a non-for-profit initiative."¬† During his address to the crowd, he explained just how fortunate he was having his parents help pay for his higher level education. "I was one of the people fortunate enough who had parents pay for my business school education. I went into business. Had I been interested in pursuing something social focused on finding water...for people without water in Africa or if I wanted to change the health care system, it would be hard to pay back my student loans with the entry level opportunities." Also present at the reception last night was Dr. Paul Farmer, the co-founder of Partners in Health, private equity billionaire Stephen Schwarzman, Paul Bernstein, the CEO of the Pershing Square Foundation and Ackman's family, including his wife, Karen, teenage daughter, sister and parents, Larry and Ronnie.
BofA Merrill Lynch technical strategist MacNeil Curry points out in a note to clients titled "Triple witching hangover" that this week is consistently one of the worst of the year for the stock market: The week ahead is all about US equities. Specifically, the week after September Triple Witching (the term used for the quarterly expiry of US equity index futures, options on equity index futures and equity options) is consistently one of the poorest of the year for the S&amp;P 500. In the 31 years since the creation of equity index futures, the S&amp;P 500 has fallen 68% of the time. More recently, it has fallen in nine of the past 11 years. With the S&amp;P 500 forming a near-term top and set to correct lower, seasonals should win out once again. While such a drop should ultimately prove temporary and corrective, in the week ahead this bodes poorly for risk assets such as emerging markets and commodities. Safe havens such as the US $ and Treasuries should benefit, with the Treasury curve likely to flatten. From an FX perspective, the Canadian $ looks particularly vulnerable in this environment, as USDCAD is resuming its year-long uptrend. "This seasonal effect appears to be intensifying," says Curry. Whereas over the past 31 years, the S&amp;P 500 has averaged a decline of 0.64% and fallen 68% of the time, "over the past 10 years, it has averaged a decline of 1.89% and fallen 80% of the time." The chart below shows returns in the week after triple witching over the past several years. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
flickr/britanny herbertBattles in Washington over raising the debt ceiling and how to continue funding the U.S. government may be starting to weigh on the stock market. "We continue to prefer the stalemate of debt and budget talks in Congress as the primary driver of nearby price action," says Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak. ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas, however, argues that "the debate [in Congress] doesnít change the near term and positive dynamics of a still-easy Fed, reasonable valuations and the classic set up for a Q4 melt-up rally in U.S. equities." Here's why Colas is bullish, despite the rumblings in Congress: Declining interest rates may not be enough to entirely spare U.S. equities from near term volatility, but other factors should ameliorate any substantial market decline through the balance of 2013. The Federal Reserve is still fully engaged with its bond buying program. Janet Yellen, favorite of Congress and Wall Street, now seems to be the front-runner for the Fed Chair spot. There is even chatter that Chairman Bernanke may not be out of the running, if Obama advisor Warren Buffett's latest laudatory comments are any sign. Then there are the odd dynamics of year-end investor psychology. Even with the choppiness in stocks last week, our friends at www.xtf.com show that one-week money flows into exchange traded funds were positive to the tune of $21 billion over the same period. Most of that money - $20.5 billion ñ went into stocks. That mirrors the money flow action for all of 2013 year-to-date, with $140 billion flowing into equity-based ETF products and $96 billion into U.S. stock fund alone. Even U.S. equity mutual funds are showing positive flows in September, to the tune of another $1.5 billion through September 11. The bottom line: we may get some volatility from the events in Washington through the last part of September and October, but the money flows into stocks should be a decidedly more positive fundamental. It has taken investors ñ especially retail and conservatively minded investment advisors ñ a lot time to get comfortable with owning stocks again. As we ramp into the final quarter of 2013, the gains over the year and easy money from the Fed will be the kindling and match to light further equity market gains. Last week, ahead of last week's shocker FOMC decision that sent stocks soaring (they've since given up most of their gains), investors piled the most money into stocks on record.
A bunch of Federal Reserve officials are speaking this week.† And the whole world will be listening carefully because last week the Fed unexpectedly said it was delaying the tapering of its large-scale asset purchase plan, which includes the purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury securities and mortgage bonds. This morning, New York Fed President Bill Dudley spoke at the Fordham Wall Street Council in New York City. He explained why he voted against the taper. Specifically, he had two tests that the economy didn't pass: ...Several questions have emerged following the meeting.† Most noteworthy wasógiven that market expectations were skewed towards anticipating the beginning of a taper at this meetingówhy the Committee did not begin to reduce the pace of asset purchases.† Although I canít speak for the Committee, I can provide some reasons for my own decision.† †† To begin to taper, I have two tests that must be passed:† (1) evidence that the labor market has shown improvement, and (2) information about the economyís forward momentum that makes me confident that labor market improvement will continue in the future.† So far, I think we have made progress with respect to these metrics, but have not yet achieved success.† †† With respect to the first metric, we have seen labor market improvement since the program began last September.†Over this time period, the unemployment rate has declined to 7.3 percent from 8.1 percent. However, at the same time, this decline in the unemployment rate overstates the degree of improvement.† Other metrics of labor market conditions, such as the hiring, job-openings, job-finding rate, quits rate and the vacancy-to-unemployment ratio, collectively indicate a much more modest improvement in labor market conditions compared to that suggested by the decline in the unemployment rate.† In particular, it is still hard for those who are unemployed to find jobs.† Currently, there are three unemployed workers per job opening, as opposed to an average of two during the period from 2003 to 2007. With respect to the second metricóconfidence that the economic recovery is strong enough to generate sustained labor market improvementóI donít think we have yet passed that test.†The economy has not picked up forward momentum and a 2 percent growth rateóeven if sustainedómight not be sufficient to generate further improvement in labor market conditions.† Moreover, fiscal uncertainties loom very large right now as Congress considers the issues of funding the government and raising the debt limit ceiling.† Assuming no change in my assessment of the efficacy and costs associated with the purchase program, Iíd like to see economic news that makes me more confident that we will see continued improvement in the labor market.† Then I would feel comfortable that the time had come to cut the pace of asset purchases... "I do believe that we are making progress towards our objectives of maximum sustainable employment in the context of price stability," he said in his conclusion. "The economic fundamentals are improving and I expect that the healing process will continue in the coming months and years.† At the same time, it is important to recognize that the financial crisis generated significant headwinds that are only slowly abating.† We must push against these headwinds forcefully to best achieve our objectives."
REUTERS/ Yuri GripasIn the summer of 2011, some Democrats urged President Obama to simply raise the debt ceiling himself if Republicans refused to pass legislation. There was the "trillion dollar coin" idea, wherein the government mints itself out of trouble via an arcane bullion law. Then there was the 14th Amendment option. Here, the president would have to take a modern interpretation on the Civil War-era amendment about the "validity of the public debt of the United States," and surely face legal action. Now, as¬†the two parties gear up for another debt ceiling bout, Greg Valliere at Potomac Research thinks Obama may be coming around to the idea of acting on his own. Valliere writes to clients: Obama is not shy about using executive authority, and he surely has heard from Constitutional scholars who believe he has the authority to raise the debt ceiling on his own. (Bill Clinton urged Obama to take this approach in the summer of 2011.) Fearless forecast:¬†if Treasury is out of money in early November and a default looks possible, Obama will simply raise the debt ceiling. He'll face instant litigation, but that wouldn't be resolved for months. It seems the president is not willing to negotiate at all for a raise in the debt ceiling, as he made clear to Speaker John Boehner in a phone call last week. We'll see what happens.
REUTERS/US Federal ReserveNew U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke (R) joins the Board of Governors attending the Federal Open Market Committee meeting in Washington, March 28, 2006.Heads up! This week's calendar is littered with Fedspeak: 11 speeches in total from Federal Reserve governors and presidents, which will likely be watched closely by market participants, as almost all of them include Q&amp;As. "Look for some back-tracking on their recent decision not†to taper," says Tom Di Galoma, managing director at ED&amp;F Man Capital. "Would expect some press pieces this week†with unnamed Fed officials indicating tapering may be†closer than we think." Friday, Fed observers heard two interesting speeches from voting members of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), the Fed's monetary policymaking body. St. Louis Fed President James Bullard introduced what may come to be known as the "Bullard Rule," an option for tweaking the central bank's current forward guidance on the path of short-term interest rates by setting a floor for inflation that may be deployed in the coming months. Then, Esther George ñ the lone dissenter in last week's shocker FOMC decision to refrain from tapering quantitative easing ñ blasted the move, hinting that it undermines the central bank's credibility. Below is this week's Fedspeak calendar (all times ET): Monday, 9/23, 9:20 AM:†Atlanta Fed president Dennis Lockhart speaks to the Blouin Creative Leadership Summit at the Metropolitan Club in New York. Monday, 9/23, 9:30 AM:†New York Fed president William Dudley speaks to the Fordham Wall Street Council in New York. Q&amp;A expected. Monday, 9/23, 1:30 PM:†Dallas Fed president Richard Fisher speaks at the Independent Bankers Association of Texas Annual Convention in San Antonio about banking conditions in Texas and the U.S. and comments on Too Big to Fail. Q&amp;A expected. Tuesday, 9/24, 9:30 AM:†Cleveland Fed president Sanda Pianalto speaks at the Chicago Fed's Payments Symposium. Tuesday, 9/24, 1:00 PM:†Kansas City Fed president Esther George will give an introduction to a keynote speech by Boston Consulting Group's Carl Rutstein at the Chicago Fed's Payments Symposium. Thursday, 9/26, 10:10 AM:†Fed governor Jeremy Stein gives a speech titled: "Yield-Oriented Investors and the Monetary Transmission Mechanism" at Goethe University in Frankfurt, Germany. Q&amp;A expected. Thursday, 9/26, 12:15 PM:†Minneapolis Fed president Narayana Kocherlakota will speak ona †topic to be decided to the Houghton Rotary. Q&amp;A expected. Thursday, 9/26, 9:15 PM:†Kansas City Fed president Esther George speaks on the U.S. economy at the Colorado Economic Forum. Q&amp;A expected. Friday, 9/27, 5:45 AM, 10:15 AM:†Chicago Fed president Charles Evans speaks on current economic conditions and monetary policy at the Norges Bank conference in Oslo, Norway. Q&amp;A expected. Friday, 9/27, 8:30 AM:†Boston Fed president Eric Rosengeren will give opening remarks at a conference on stable funding at the New York Fed. Friday, 9/27, 2:00 PM:†New York Fed president William Dudley speaks on the U.S. economy in Syracuse. Q&amp;A expected.
Markit EconomicsMarkit's U.S. flash manufacturing PMI unexpectedly fell to 52.8 from August's 53.1 reading. Economists were looking for a rise to 54.0. Any figure above 50 indicates expansion, so the September number suggests that the pace of growth in American manufacturing is decelerating this month. The output sub-index rose to 55.3 from 52.5, but the new orders sub-index fell to 52.7 from 55.7. A full breakdown of the sub-indices is at right. We will have the full release here momentarily. Click here for the full release ¬ª
Apple just announced strong opening weekend iPhone sales.¬† How strong? Well, they're strong enough that the company had to provide an update on its revenue forecast.¬† In an SEC filing, Apple CFO Peter Oppenheimer said that revenue would come in at the high end of the company's previously announce guidance of $34-$37 billion.¬† Analysts were expecting revenue of $36.11 billion.¬† He also said margins would be at the high end of the 36%-37% range it forecast.¬† The stock is up 6% on the news, closing in on $500 per share. From an SEC filing: On September 23, 2013, Apple Inc. (the "Company") announced that it has sold over nine million new iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c models, just three days after the launch of the new iPhones on September 20. Apple expects total company revenue for the fourth fiscal quarter to be near the high end of the previously provided range of $34 billion to $37 billion, and expects gross margin to be near the high end of the previously provided range of 36% to 37%. The foregoing contains forward-looking statements about the Company's estimated revenue and gross margin for the fiscal quarter ending September 28, 2013. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ. Risks and uncertainties include without limitation those identified in the "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" sections of the Company's public reports filed with the SEC, including the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2012, and its Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal year 2013. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates.
Dr. Ed's BlogThe Fed‚Äôs inflation target (using the core personal consumption deflator) has been 2% for quite some time. It‚Äôs been below that rate since May 2012. At last week‚Äôs press conference, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said that the FOMC is considering setting an inflation floor. If inflation falls to or below this lower bound, then the federal funds rate won‚Äôt be raised even if the unemployment rate continues to decline. He added, ‚ÄúI mean, that we should be very reluctant to raise rates if inflation remains persistently below target and that's one of the reasons that I think we can be very patient in raising the federal funds rates since we have not seen any inflation pressure.‚Äù It‚Äôs not obvious to me why Fed officials want to boost inflation. The recent decline in inflation has been led by such goods as airfares, used cars, and furniture and bedding. The biggest plunge has been in medical care commodities inflation. Medical services inflation has also been falling. On the other hand, tenant rent inflation rose during August to 3.0% y/y, the highest since May 2009. Why would it be good for the economy to have rents rise faster? Do Fed officials really want medical care inflation to rebound? These are questions that the Fed chairman did not address in his press conference. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Taper Caper. (1) Leaves will change before Fed does. (2) Fed officials concerned about weaker economy and fiscal follies. (3) Also, tapering postponed so yields would stop rising as a result of tapering talk. (4) Bond yield may stay between 2.5%-3.0% for a while. (5) Gold goes up and down. Industrial commodity prices barely budge. (6) Emerging markets unlikely to outperform. (7) Europe may not continue to outperform unless data improve. (8) US stocks face some challenges in October. (9) Bernanke‚Äôs last two press conferences confuse rather than enlighten. (10) ‚ÄúPrisoners‚Äù (+). (More for subscribers.)
Apple announced that it sold over 9 million iPhones during the opening weekend of sales. This is much better than analysts expected.¬†Analysts were forecasting 5 million at the low end, and 7.75 million at the high end.¬† The stock is up ~6% on the news.¬† Last year Apple sold 5 million iPhone 5s during the opening weekend, so this is a huge increase. The new iPhone drew huge, enthusiastic crowds and long lines when it was released last Friday, despite the fact that there were no external changes to the device.¬†Part of the reason there were big lines is that the company didn't allow pre-orders of the new iPhone 5S. Another part of the reason: People like iPhones.¬† Apple is mostly sold out of the iPhone 5S, which suggests this number would have been even higher if Apple had enough phones in stock. Apple's 9 million units include both iPhone 5S and iPhone 5Cs. Apple didn't break out how many units of the iPhone 5S it sold vs. the 5Cs. Total iPhone sales were likely boosted by the new 5C model, which didn't exist last year. Apple says that 200 million iOS devices are now running iOS 7, the newest version of the iPhone/iPad software. For comparisons, last year, 100 million iOS devices upgraded to iOS 6 over a comparable time.¬† It also says that it had 11 million listening hours over the weekend for iTunes Radio, its new music streaming service. "This is our best iPhone launch yet‚Äïmore than nine million new iPhones sold‚Äïa new record for first weekend sales," said Apple CEO Tim Cook, in the press release. "The demand for the new iPhones has been incredible, and while we‚Äôve sold out of our initial supply of iPhone 5s, stores continue to receive new iPhone shipments regularly. We appreciate everyone‚Äôs patience and are working hard to build enough new iPhones for everyone." Apple also issued an SEC filing that says its revenue is going to be at the high end of its previously forecasted $34-$37 billion range for the quarter. Here's the complete release: CUPERTINO, California‚ÄïSeptember 23, 2013‚ÄïApple¬Æ today announced it has sold a record-breaking nine million new iPhone¬Æ 5s and iPhone 5c models, just three days after the launch of the new iPhones on September 20. In addition, more than 200 million iOS devices are now running the completely redesigned iOS 7, making it the fastest software upgrade in history. Both iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c are available in the US, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the UK. Demand for iPhone 5s has exceeded the initial supply, and many online orders are scheduled to be shipped in the coming weeks.‚ÄúThis is our best iPhone launch yet‚Äïmore than nine million new iPhones sold‚Äïa new record for first weekend sales,‚Äù said Tim Cook, Apple‚Äôs CEO. ‚ÄúThe demand for the new iPhones has been incredible, and while we‚Äôve sold out of our initial supply of iPhone 5s, stores continue to receive new iPhone shipments regularly. We appreciate everyone‚Äôs patience and are working hard to build enough new iPhones for everyone.‚ÄùiPhone 5s redefines the best smartphone experience in the world with amazing new features all packed into a remarkable thin and light design, including the Apple-designed A7 64-bit chip, all-new 8 megapixel iSight¬Æ camera with True Tone flash and introducing Touch ID‚Ñ¢, an innovative way to simply and securely unlock your phone with just the touch of a finger. iPhone 5c features an all-new design, packed with features users know and love like the beautiful 4-inch Retina¬Æ display, blazing fast performance of the A6 chip, and the 8 megapixel iSight camera‚Äîall while delivering great battery life.¬π iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c both offer more LTE bands¬≤ than any other smartphone in the world and include all-new FaceTime¬Æ HD cameras.iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c feature iOS 7, the most significant iOS update since the original iPhone, featuring a stunning new user interface, completely redesigned with an elegant color palette, distinct, functional layers and subtle motion that make it feel more alive. iOS 7 has hundreds of great new features, including Control Center, Notification Center, improved Multitasking, AirDrop¬Æ, enhanced Photos, Safari¬Æ, Siri¬Æ and introduces iTunes Radio‚Ñ†, a free Internet radio service based on the music you listen to on iTunes¬Æ.¬≥ Over 11 million unique listeners have already tuned in to iTunes Radio since launch with the most listened to song being ‚ÄúHold On, We‚Äôre Going Home‚Äù by Drake.¬†Every customer who buys an iPhone 5s or iPhone 5c at an Apple retail store will be offered free Personal Setup service, helping them customize their iPhone by setting up email, showing them new apps from the App Store‚Ñ† and more, so they‚Äôll be up and running with their new iPhone before they leave the store. Customers can learn more about iOS 7 and their new device through new free workshops at all Apple retail stores worldwide. In the US, the new iPhones are available through AT&amp;T, Sprint, T-Mobile, Verizon Wireless, select Best Buy, RadioShack, Target and Walmart stores and Apple Authorized Resellers.Pricing &amp; AvailabilityiPhone 5s comes in gold, silver or space gray, and is available in the US for a suggested retail price of $199 (US) for the 16GB model and $299 (US) for the 32GB model and $399 (US) for the 64GB model.‚Å¥ iPhone 5c comes in blue, green, pink, yellow and white and is available in the US for a suggested retail price of $99 (US) for the 16GB model and $199 (US) for the 32GB model.‚Å¥ iPhone 5s cases are available in beige, black, blue, brown, yellow and (RED) for a suggested retail price of $39 (US) through the¬†Apple Online Store(www.apple.com), Apple‚Äôs retail stores and select Authorized Apple Resellers. iPhone 5c cases are available in blue, green, pink, yellow, black and white for a suggested retail price of $29 (US) through the¬†Apple Online Store¬†(www.apple.com), Apple‚Äôs retail stores and select Authorized Apple Resellers. iPhone 4s is also available for free (US) with a two-year contract.‚Å¥¬π Battery life depends on device settings, usage and other factors. Actual results vary.¬≤ LTE is available through select carriers. Network speeds are dependent on carrier networks, check with your carrier for details.¬≥ iTunes Radio is available with iOS 7 in the US.‚Å¥ For qualified customers.Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices with iPad.
S&amp;P 500 futures have been falling for the past hour, and are now pointing to a -0.2% open to start the week. Overnight, China flash manufacturing PMI rose to 51.2 from 50.1 in August, suggesting a faster-than-expected acceleration in the Chinese manufacturing sector this month. The Shanghai Composite rose 1.3%, but the Hong Kong Hang Seng fell 0.6% and the Japanese Nikkei fell 0.2%. In Europe, euro-area composite PMI rose to the highest level in 27 months, but the number was propelled higher by acceleration in the services sector, while manufacturing sector growth decelerated. European markets are in the red across the board. The London FTSE is down 0.6%, the German DAX and Spanish IBEX are both down 0.5%, the French CAC 40 is down 0.3%, and the Italian FTSE MIB is down 0.2%. Up next is Markit's U.S. flash manufacturing PMI release at 8:58 AM ET. Follow it live here ¬ª ThinkorswimS&P 500 futures fall Monday, September 23, 2013.
Wall Street's top stock market strategists have become increasingly bullish in recent weeks. And last week's decision by the Federal Reserve has only emboldened many of these experts. Deutsche Bank's David Bianco is among the strategists to have cranked up his S&amp;P 500 target this month. But in a note to clients titled "Straight Shot To 1800," Bianco argues that the rally will be a smooth ride for stock market investors. "We expect the S&amp;P to reach 1800 without a 5%+ dip," he wrote in a 52-page note on Thursday. Here's more color: S&amp;P 500 targets for 2013, 2014 and 2015 yearends: 1750, 1850 and 2000. We expect the S&amp;P to reach 1800 without a 5%+ dipSince May, we advised watching for signs of a return to healthy S&amp;P sales and EPS growth, after four shy quarters, in order to get more bullish. We argued that restoring healthy S&amp;P sales and EPS growth required oil price resilience and stronger manufacturing, investment spending and exports. Oil and the euro have been very resilient, despite higher yields and dollar gains upon normalizing monetary policy. Moreover, macro reports for 3Q to date have consistently indicated a definitive acceleration in capex and trade vs. last 4 qts. For these reasons, we raised our S&amp;P EPS estimates and yearend target on Sept. 3rd. to 1750 from 1675. Confirmation of these trends and ultimately stronger sales and EPS growth in 3Q and 4Q reports should push the S&amp;P to 1800 by early next year. Healthy mid single-digit sales growth and upper single-digit EPS growth is now imminent. S&amp;P EPS: 2013E $111, 2014E $119We are now confident that US investment and exports will accelerate to 5% or higher in 2H13 and 2014 on: 1) resilient oil prices, which will keep energy capex rising, 2) a well managed China slowdown, that is curbing construction but supporting investment in capital goods used for transportation or that lift urban living standards or that boost labor productivity, and 3) an overdue upgrade cycle in US manufacturing, enterprise technology and infrastructure. These factors should make for decent industrial capital goods demand despite US defense spending pressures and the global mining capex crunch. But in order for overall US capex and exports to return to the normal ~10% growth rate of the past 20 years outside of recessions Tech spending must be reinvigorated. Fortunately, some of the latest indicators and management commentary suggest that corporate tech spending is starting to stir. A return to normal EPS growth supports a return to a normal PE. Target PE: ~16x trailing and ~15x forward S&amp;P EPSOur 2014E EPS of $119, up over 7%, assumes ~4.5% sales growth, ~1.5% of mostly pension related margin expansion and a ~1% share count decline. We forecast nearly 8% EPS growth at non-financials after two years of no sequential quarterly growth. Our outlook represents a broad return to healthy growth, across sectors, not dependent on Financials. We also expect 2014 to be another year of ~15% DPS growth. With a return to nominal and especially real EPS growth that is in line with history, we consider the historically normal PE of 16x trailing and 15x forward S&amp;P EPS fair. This PE aligns with the average since 1960 and implies that 6% is a fair real return on long-term S&amp;P 500 ownership. Further PE expansion in 2014 or 2015 would be justified if long-term real interest rates stay below historical norms when the Fed stops asset purchases or if real EPS growth plus the dividend yield outlook can exceed historical averages. Mid-term elections and the implications for corporate taxes will also influence the 2014 end PE. The S&amp;P 500 closed at 1,709 on Friday.
Last week, the Federal Reserve shocked the world when it said that it has yet to begin tapering its large-scale asset purchase plan. Also known as quantitative easing (QE), this accommodative monetary policy involves the monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds. However, the Fed is not the only central bank in the world keeping monetary policy easy in its effort to stimulate its economy. At its Global Economics &amp; Strategy Day last Friday, Morgan Stanley circulated a 97-page slide presentation that included this chart from Chief International Economist Joachim Fels. It roughly shows where the world's central banks stand on monetary policy, and the colors show where they intend to go. As you can see, most central banks are in loose, expansionary mode with a bias toward easing. The emerging markets, which have been struggling to bolster their currencies, have been a little be tighter with Brazil and Indonesia showing a bias toward further tightening. Here are some points from Fels: Morgan StanleyColor corresponds to monetary bias, where 'red' stands for tightening bias, 'orange' for no bias and 'green' for easing.
Giant Magellan Telescope - GMTO CorporationEconomists and investors are still digesting the Federal Reserve's shocking decision to not taper its stimulative large-scale asset purchase (LSAP)program, which consists of the monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds. For now, the market's focus will likely shift back heavily to the next two to four months worth of economic data, which will be the same data the Fed¬† mulls over as it plans to taper the LSAP. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary "Sometimes bull markets have a mind of their own, and this one is no different," said BMO Capital's Brian Belski. "[L]ackluster bond market performance, coupled with expansive equity gains, will likely spur renewed fund flows into equities, especially as the calendar flips to 2014. Thus, we believe the S&amp;P 500 could reach a potential peak of 1,900 before the economy catches up."
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschGerman Chancellor and leader of the Christian Democratic Union ( CDU) Angela Merkel gestures before a CDU party board meeting in Berlin September 23, 2013, the day after the German general election. German Chancellor Angela Merkel faces the daunting prospect of persuading her centre-left rivals to keep her in power after her conservatives notched up their best election result in more than two decades but fell short of an absolute majority.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Chinese data has been improving lately, but some have expressed concern that this is only because the government is pumping more credit into the system, and engaging in infrastructure investment at a time when there's already too much spare capacity. That may be an issue, but as Markit's Chris Williamson notes on Twitter, Chinese exports are back on the rise, per the latest Flash PMI survey. Markit This certainly suggests there's more to the recovery than just adding more capacity on top of idle capacity.
As we enter the homestretch of September, Nomura's Geopolitical Guru Alistair Newton has a new presentation called "Red October Ahead?" about some of the risks keeping him awake at night. Here's the one-slide summary. Surprising nobody, US fiscal woes top the list. Nomura
Earlier we talked about the Flash PMI reports out of the Eurozone, and how they showed the overall Eurozone economy hitting a 27-month high. But of course there's no one "Eurozone" and frequently we talk about a 'core' (Germany, France, etc.) and a periphery (Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece), the latter of which have done much worse. The good news is that the periphery is recovering. Here's a chart showing the employment picture in Germany, France, and the rest. As you can see, all are improving, but it was the rest of Europe that had the sharpest up-move in the latest reading. Markit
APThe US government could shut down at the end of September if the GOP refuses to pass a budget that doesn't stipulate defunding Obamacare. Many Republicans are freaking out about what this would mean for the party. And for good reason. In Ben White's Morning Money, he passes along this nugget. CNBCís Steve Liesman emails with fascinating new poll results (full survey data out Thursday): ìA solid majority of Americans oppose defunding the new health care law if it means shutting down the government and defaulting on debt. The CNBC All-America Economic Survey of 800 people across the country conducted by Hart-McInturff, finds that Americans oppose defunding Obamacare by a 44% to 38% plurality. But support for defunding drops off sharply when the issue of shutting down the government and defaulting is included. In that case, Americans oppose defunding 59% to 19% with 18% unsure. Ö†† Now it's a little clear what's meant by "shutting down the government and defaulting on debt" since these are two separate things, the latter of which is far more of a problem (and far less likely in any scenario) than the the former. But still, the "defund" fight is not popular, and it becomes much less popular when people think about the consequences.
Flickr via nanoprobe67Markets are mostly going nowhere. US futures are a hair higher. European stocks are basically flat. The only big gainer of the day so far has been China, where the Shanghai Composite rallied 1.33% after a strong Chinese Flash PMI, which indicated that the economic recovery is continuing. The lack of action everywhere else is not for lack of news. Over the weekend, the German election saw Angela Merkel win big. The size of her victory was a bit unexpected, but it wasn't game changing in any way. If anything it was status-quo reinforcing. And this morning, PMI data for the Eurozone was so-so. Headlines numbers continued to show growth in France, Germany, and the Eurozone as a whole, although manufacturing subindices were mediocre, with the strength tilted towards services. US data will be coming out later today.
From Markit, Eurozone Flash PMI just rose to 52.1 for September, its highest level in 27 months. Markit The strength was tilted toward services. The manufacturing component actually dipped a little bit, to a 3-month low, while the services index rose to a 27-month high. A similar story was seen in the German Flash PMI number, which also came in strong on the headline, but which was tilted towards services.
