The next enterprise startup to become a public company will happen on Friday. Nimble Storage plans to sell 8 million shares and raise up to $160 million. Shares will be priced between $18 and $20 a share. Nimble makes storage hardware for corporate data centers using flash technology. Flash is the same type of storage used by thumb drives and smartphones. Flash drives (also called solid state drives) are faster than traditional enterprise storage methods (which use disk drives or tape).  There's no question that flash storage will be big in the years to come. IDC expects it to be a $1.2 billion market by 2015. And so, naturally, there's a whole crop of young companies in this market. Plus the big storage players, like EMC and HP, have jumped in, too. However the timing of this IPO is brave. Two previous flash storage companies are struggling and their stock is tanking: Fusion-io and Violin Memory. Fusion-io was a tech IPO darling of 2011, launching at $19. Today, it's trading at about $8.60, as it struggles to sign new customers. Violin had its IPO a mere two months ago which didn't go well. Shares dove from $9 to $7 on opening day. Then it reported its first quarterly earnings in late November, missing analyst expectations, and things got even more rocky. The stock is trading at under $3 now. As for Nimble, in the first nine months of this year, it made $75.7 million in revenue, with a net loss of nearly $30 million. In 2012, it made $31.1 million in revenue with a loss of nearly $18 million. Still, there's a positive sign that Nimble's roadshow is going well and that investors are interested: earlier this week, it raised its price range $2 from $16 - $18 to $18 - $20. On Friday, we'll see what happens.
 Twitter stock has gotten too expensive, despite the company's darling status on Wall Street, Brian Wieser of Pivotal Research Group said Thursday. "First of all, let me say Twitter is an amazing companyófantastic management, great ad products, wonderful traction," he said. "The problem is it's just simply overvalued. Now, to the extent that the stock will fall, eventually it will. It probably has to." Wieser, senior research analyst with Pivotal, has a sell rating on shares of Twitter and a $30 price target. (Read more:†Jim Cramer: Is Twitter the next Amazon?) Twitter stock closed at $55.33, up 3 percent for the day. On CNBC's "Fast Money," Wieser said that the stock's pop on Twitter's unveiling of new features was unwarranted. "This really illustrates how little investors who are buying into this understand the company, that they're bidding up the stock by 10 and 15 and 20 percent for a product announced in July," he said. "Most of the institutional investors I talk to understand that this is vastly overvalued. That doesn't mean there aren't people who aren't trading it, and I think there is a lot of short-covering going on because there were a lot of folks shorting it, fully agreeing with this notion that this is overvalued. "Now, if you ... can convincingly tell me this company has, call it, $8 billion in revenue 2017, I get very comfortable with the valuation," he said. "But I get to about $4 [billion]. "I don't think that very many people are doing a lot of what we would call fundamental research. Let's put it that way." Of the 20 Wall Street analysts covering Twitter, the average price target is $41.75. Still, Wieser reiterated that his issue was not with Twitter itself. "We all love the company. We all think it's a great business," he said. "It's just a question of what's an appropriate value." óBy CNBC's†Bruno J. Navarro. Follow him on Twitter†@Bruno_J_Navarro.
REUTERS/John GressFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. These Four Simple Principles Can Put Investors On The Path To Success (Vanguard)  Investors are worried about the impact that a Federal Reserve tapering of its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program and rising rates could have on their portfolio. Many are tempted to time markets. Instead, Vanguard Chief Investment Officer Tim Buckley, says he always reminds his clients of four core principles that put clients on the path to investment success.¬† "I always come back to our four principles, which have served investors well regardless of the environment: Know your goals, set your portfolio allocation according to your goals, minimize cost, and have the discipline to rebalance." He says investors that haven't rebalanced their portfolio in the past six months or year should take another look at their portfolio. He also says investors should be "wary of strategies that are based on back-tested data with an expectation of outperforming the market in the future."  Hedge Fund Holdings Surge Even As They Underperform The Stock Market (Financial Times)  Even has hedge funds have underperformed equity markets in 2013, the continue to draw investors. Hedge funds have pulled in $360 billion this year, a 15.7% increase on their assets under management (AUM) at the end of 2012, reports Stephen Foley at The Financial Times. This is largely because investor expectations are changing. Investors no longer expect massive returns and are instead looking to diversify their portfolio with smaller and more stable returns, reports Foley. And this has hedge funds optimistic going into 2014. 25% expect to launch a new funds, according to a Prequin survey of fund managers cited by Foley.  Jim Rogers: Right Now, I'd Rather Buy Silver Than Gold (BullionVault)  Gold prices have been falling and Jim Rogers, chairman of Rogers Holdings, told BullionVault, that this was because India "which has been the largest buyer, has reduced its buying a lot." Rogers added that if Indian politicians could get people to sell their gold, "Who knows how low gold could go?" Rogers said right now he isn't buying silver or gold but if he had to buy one today, it would be silver because it has fallen more than gold. But he added that "With all this staggering amount of currency debasement, gold has got to be a good place to be down the road once we get through this correction." Fidelity Is Not Letting Retail Investors Put Bitcon In Their Retirement Accounts (Business Insider)  It was earlier report that Fidelity, the world's largest RIA provider, was letting its clients invest in Bitcoin through SecondMarket‚Äôs Bitcoin Investment Trust. "At this time, Fidelity does not allow investments in the Bitcoin Investment Trust through our retail platform, including in IRAs," a Fidelity spokesman told Business Insider in an email. Accredited investors did have access at one point, but don't anymore.¬† "The Bitcoin Investment Trust was previously approved by Fidelity as an eligible investment for accredited clients in their self-directed IRA accounts and investments began closing last week," SecondMarket's Barry Silbert said in a statement. "We understand that Fidelity has decided to reevaluate this decision."¬†¬† ROSENBERG: The Market Is So Strong That It Could Go Through A Near-Term Setback And None Of The Bullish Technical Trendlines Would Be Violated (Gluskin Sheff)  The latest Investors Intelligence poll has "hit an extreme" writes Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. And this acts as a contrary indicator. The bull share has climbed to 58.2% in the latest week, up from 57.1%, while the bear camp is at 14.3%. The correction camp is down to 27.5%, from 28.6%. "As such the bull/bear spread widened to a new high for the year (43.9 percentage points versus 42.8 last week) as bullish sentiment went to a new high for the year."¬† "This index is at an extreme high and one that has more often that not, regardless of the macro or policy backdrop ‚Äî ushered in a corrective phase, something we have not seen now in well over two years, which itself is highly unusual. The market is so strong that it could undergo a near-term 10% setback and none of the bullish technical deadlines would be violated."
APThe House of Representatives easily¬†passed the budget bill that was the result of a deal brokered by Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Sen. Patty Murray (D-Sen.), clearing its biggest hurdle on the way to becoming law.¬† In a blowout, the House voted in favor of the legislation by a 332-94 margin. The bill now moves to the Senate, which is expected to vote on it next week. It was a bipartisan vote in favor of the bill ‚Äî 169 Republicans and 163 Democrats voted "yes." Only 62 Republicans and 32 Democrats voted "no." The two-year budget deal has been hailed by bipartisan members of Congress and by President Barack Obama as a step toward ending the brutal fiscal fights that have become the norm in Washington over the past two years. The¬†mini-bargain ‚Äî the "Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013" ‚Äî sets discretionary spending levels a little above $1 trillion for the next two years, while repealing and replacing some cuts of sequestration. In fiscal year 2014, spending is set at $1.012 trillion, which sits about halfway between the proposed levels of the House and Senate budgets. Law under sequestration calls for caps of $967 billion. The legislation provides¬†$63 billion in sequester relief over two years, which is split evenly between defense and non-defense programs. This is offset by targeted spending cuts and non-tax revenues that total $85 billion. Ryan and Murray said that the deal will reduce the deficit between $20 and $23 billion over a 10-year period. The deal had faced staunch opposition from outside conservative groups, leading to heavy friction between the groups and House GOP leadership. Boehner has blasted the groups each of the past two days, criticizing them for coming out against the deal before they even knew its details. "When you criticize something and you have no idea what you‚Äôre criticizing, you‚Äôve lost your credibility," Boehner said. In a statement Thursday night, the White House hailed the House's passage of the bill.¬† "The bipartisan agreement passed by the House today represents a positive step forward for the nation and our economy," press secretary Jay Carney said.¬† "The President called on Congress to work together on a budget that grows our economy faster, creates more jobs and makes the investments needed to strengthen the middle class, rather than continue reckless across the board cuts that stifle growth. This bill does not include everything the President called for. But it marks an important moment of bipartisan cooperation and shows Washington can and should stop governing by crisis and both sides can work together to get things done."
Business Insider, the fastest growing business news site on the web, and Goldbely, food explorers set out to discover the best gourmet food and gifts in America, have teamed up to make you the hero of your next office event. Enter to win $1,000 of Goldbely credit to spend on a feast for your next office party and we'll also send you the best of our daily news and analysis with our Business Insider Select newsletter.  By clicking Submit you accept the Terms and Conditions, Privacy Policy and Sweepstakes Rules and agree to receiveemails from Goldbely and Business Insider. Goldbely is on a mission to discover all things delicious and bring them right to your office. They seek out the legendary local restaurants, amazing artisans and great gourmet food purveyors that produce the best regional products and bring them to you for corporate gifting, client lunches, or your next big party.
For all the regulation, tax increases, and bad PR, the tobacco industry is still monstrous ‚Äî and as such, is still interesting to investors. Like any other industry, analysts try to predict where it's headed. But because of tobacco's negative cultural cachet (and carcinogens), commentary can feel a little uncomfortable. Take this note from RBC, which argues that the 65% bump in housing starts since December 2010 will help out the tobacco industry. What does the housing recovery have to do with tobacco? "With housing starts on the rise, construction workers (a leading group of tobacco consumers) are entering the workforce and have incremental income to spend on tobacco," writes RBC. RBC More construction workers, who are typically lower income and thus more likely to smoke, have money to buy cigarettes. Or how about falling gas prices, another big market trend in 2013? "Gasoline prices have fallen throughout 2013, down -23% from February highs," writes RBC. "With lower gasoline prices, tobacco consumers have relatively more money left in their pockets after filling up at the pump to buy cigarettes and other tobacco products." Again, lower income smokers are the ones who are more likely to have to make the economic choice between gasoline and cigarettes. RBC It's not all roses for Big Tobacco. "An offset to the positive macro data points is the reduction of food stamp benefit," according to RBC. "And while food stamps have not been used to purchase tobacco, we estimate consumers will have $10 less per month of 'purchasing power,' which we believe will have some marginal negative impact on tobacco consumption." RBC
REUTERS/Victor FraileStocks ended down for a third straight day. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
The proportion of global kidnappings from Latin America has halved since 2005, but Mexico still leads the pack, according to¬†RiskMap 2014, a new report from Control Risks. Asia and the Pacific had the most recorded kidnaps-for-ransom in 2013, up to 35% of global cases from 31% in 2012.¬†Risks remain in Africa, especially in Nigeria where "the overwhelming majority of incidents taking place in the oil-producing Niger delta." "A large number of cases continued to be reported in the Middle East, fuelled by the unstable security environment created by the Syrian civil war," according to the report. "Kidnapping-for-ransom has become a common problem in Syria and Lebanon, with Lebanon ranking sixth in Control Risks‚Äô global top ten in 2013." Here are the top 20 countries for kidnap-for-ransom in absolute terms for 2013 (as of September 30): Control Risks
On Saturday, there will be SantaCon, an all-day pub crawl where New Yorkers dress in Santa suits to allegedly celebrate the holiday season. It doesn't matter that bars tried to ban it, and it doesn't matter that there are horror stories on horror stories about things that have happened on this fateful day. It's coming. And the problem with it ó the real problem ó is that on SantaCon, New York City gets hazed, and New York City has no choice in the matter. The City gets hazed by hundreds of drunken fools escaped from the Donkey Island where Pinocchio lost all semblance of shame. It gets hazed by girls who are crying because they lost their jacket. It gets hazed by the boyfriend holding that jacket who can't stop saying "you always get this way when you're drunk, Lindsey." It could be an awesome event. New York can handle St. Patrick's Day's coordinated outfits. It can handle the all-day drinking involved with the World Cup. New Years Eve, even. This is a town that survives tons and tons of outsiders coming in for New Year's Eve. Yet we can't do SantaCon. People ó a bar owner actually saw a midday knife fight one year. During SantaCon, the moment someone puts on that Santa outfit, they do not decide to be a jolly twinkle-eyed gift-giver with a love for sweets. They become the biggest, jerkiest, frat star on the planet and it's time for rush. There is a true sense of nastiness and mischief in the day. This is only natural, as SantaCon is used as an excuse to competitively drink hard liquor the same way people drink beer on Super Bowl Sunday. Now the rest of us New Yorkers can hide, or we can go about our business. By going about our business, though, we implicitly participate in the day. We give these drunken Santas people to torment. We are the reindeer, the elves, and our town is the North Pole. We are the pledges. There is no containing this, really. All we can do is be glad that Mayor Bloomberg has been so strict about concealed weapons. SantaCon isn't about being merry or a sense of holiday community; it's about the kind of debauchery that has people lighting cars on fire after hockey games ó the wild immature desire to invade, overrun and destroy a space that doesn't belong to you. People do this because they want to feel powerful, they want to feel in control. In that way it is a perfect haze. And it has to stop.
What jacket do you need? Well, that depends on †2 factors. 1. †How cold is it? 2. What do you need it for? If you know this ñ you can easily figure out what jackets should be in your core wardrobe! Need a jacket to wear over your suit in a Chicago winter ñ think formal and warm! †Live in LA and want something to wear on the beach ñ lightweight &amp; casual! The menís jacket chart below is organized with the†lightest and most casual coats in the top left, and moving†down and to the right they become warmer and more formal. This cold weather coat chart covers 20 of the most common &amp; classic jackets a man may need. †I admit itís not perfect (I did leave of field jackets, safari jackets, etc), but hey, I tried! Real Men Real Style Click on any of the links below and Iíll send you to a brand or merchant that I trust!
From UBS: UBS
YouTube/hsdentfinancialHarry Dent lays out the ultimate bear case in his new book.Take one look at Harry Dent's body of work and you'll know he likes to†make predictions. He wrote†The Great Boom Ahead in 1993,†The Great Jobs Ahead in 1995,†The Great Depression Ahead†in 2009, and†The Great Crash Ahead in 2011. What's ahead now? A "demographic cliff," according to Dent's new book...†Demographic Cliff: How to Survive and Prosper During the Great Deflation of 2014-2019. "At Dent Research we have a not-so-secret weapon:†demographics," Dent writes. "It is the ultimate indicator that allows you to see around corners, to predict the most fundamental economic trends not just years but decades in advance." Dent spends the bulk of his book arguing that the demographic story has turned against the U.S. As Boomers retire, it's not an unfamiliar argument. Dent writes that an aging U.S. will cause deflation that will weaken the economy from 2014-2019. Here are some of his main points: "You need to prepare for that crisis, which will occur between 2014 and 2023, with the worst likely starting in 2014 and continuing off and on into late 2019," Dent concludes. "You can contribute to the solution by conserving your financial assets and reinvesting them after the crisis." Cheery stuff. You can get the book on Amazon.com.
Jim Edwards / BIThe big chill at Bank of America.Slices of ice the size of footballs are again falling off the side of the Bank of America tower in Manhattan, and the building has put out barriers and warning signs on the sidewalk to help pedestrians avoid being hit. It's not a trivial matter: BofA Tower is, at 55 floors, 1,200-feet tall. New York is currently in the midst of a cold snap following a brief snowstorm ‚Äî and it has left everything covered in hard, brittle ice. A source who works inside the BofA building told Business Insider that it's slightly terrifying. The ice isn't falling in the form of traditional, Christmassy icicles, but rather in "slices" or sheets. They're big enough to cause injury, we're told. This happens every winter. The New York Times wrote in 2011: Ice sheets the size of dinner plates slid off the Bank of America building at 42nd Street and Avenue of the Americas, a sleek glass tower whose top disappeared in fog. Chunks crashed against nearby buildings. The site was clear of ice when we visited one recent evening, however: Jim Edwards / BIA warning sign outside BofA HQ.
Following weeks of sometimes violent protests, reports suggest that Ukrainian President Viktor¬†Yanukovych will reverse his U-turn on a trade deal with the European Union. CNBC just now reported that Ukraine says it will sign an E.U. trade deal "soon": BREAKING: Ukraine's Deputy PM says Ukraine will "soon sign" free trade agreement with EU (via @MCaruso_Cabrera) Earlier in the day,¬†EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton ‚Äî currently in Kyiv for talks with Ukraine ‚Äî told reporters she believed Yanukovych "made it clear to me that he intends to sign the association agreement." The trade deal is widely seen as a precursor to possible E.U. membership ‚Äî and Yanukovych's unexpected rejection of the deal last month was then seen as part of a new policy to looks toward Russia and its own proposed "Eurasian Union."
These days, you can't talk about tobacco without talking about the rise of e-cigarettes. "By year-end 2013, the e-cigarette category is expected to have doubled to over $1B from $500MM in 2012, according to various industry sources," noted RBC Capital analyst Nik Modi. Still, e-cigarettes represent a very tiny fraction of the tobacco business.¬† Tobacco giant Lorillard recently said that e-cigarettes may have taken 1% of the U.S. cigarette volume. However, there was once a time when the cigarette wasn't the dominant product in the tobacco business. "We point out that it took 45 years for tobacco consumers to transition from smokeless to cigarettes during the late 1800s and early 1900s," added Modi. "The cigarette‚Äôs popularity among tobacco consumers as we know it today was helped by two key catalysts: 1) spitting tobacco was declared unsanitary and disease spreading, leading to spittoons being removed from public places in 1915; and 2) during the Second World War, soldiers were given cigarettes as part of their rations." The removal of spittoons a hundred years ago isn't unlike the bans on smoking we see today. Who knows where we'll be 45 years from now? RBC Capital Markets
Lululemon on FlickrLululemon shares were down more than 11% in early trading Thursday after the company forecast weak sales during the holiday period,†despite reporting better-than-expected earnings in the third quarter ending Nov. 3. In a call with analysts Thursday, Lululemon Chief Financial Officer John Currie attributed the company's weak outlook to slowing traffic in the fourth quarter. Currie pointed to the slowdown of the economy and a string of public relations problems that has plagued Lululemon this year,†including new quality issues with the company's yoga pants, which Business Insider first reported on Oct. 31.† "Let's face it, we have had lots of PR issues this year," Currie said. Lululemon also landed in hot water recently after its founder, Chip Wilson, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV that some women's bodies "just don't actually work" for his yoga pants. Wilson is stepping down as chairman of the company following his remarks, the company announced Tuesday. It's part of a larger management shakeup at Lululemon, which includes the announcement of a new CEO, Laurent Potdevin, who most recently led Tom's. Potdevin replaces CEO Christine Day, who announced in June that she planned to resign in June, three months after the company was forced to recall 17% of its bottoms for being too sheer. Day, Potdevin and Wilson were notably absent from the earnings call.† The pants recall and Day's resignation "undoubtedly" impacted sales, Currie said.†"Our job is to make sure that's a short term impact by earning back the trust of the guests," he added. Currie also acknowledged on the call that the market for fitness apparel is becoming increasingly crowded. Some of the major players include Nike, Under Armour, and Gap's Athleta. A few e-commerce startups have also been moving into the space and fast fashion retailer H&amp;M has just launched a new fitness line.† "There's no one competitor that we're looking at... that is having a particularly significant impact" on Lululemon's sales, Currie said. "But the crowded landscape of course makes it more difficult to stand out."
JamesEdition Ever dreamed of living like Scrooge McDuck and swimming in a pool of money? Well, your dream could become a reality. On the website JamesEdition, the "truly global luxury marketplace" that's something like an eBay for the mega-rich, there's a listing for a Swiss bank deposit safe full of 8 million real Swiss coins, which will supposedly be moved to a location of your choice, where you can do whatever you want with it.  It's an enticing idea. As Gizmodo puts it, "Holy wow, you can actually swim like Scrooge McDuck in this bank vault," though Slate acts the killjoy by pointing out that swimming in 400,000 Swiss francs (roughly $450,000) "would be extremely painful at the best, and potentially life-threatening at the worst." But what's really fascinating about the stunt is the origin of the coins and who will profit from the sale. Back in October, a group called the "Generation Basic Income Initiative" dumped the 15 tons of money in front of the parliament building in Bern, the capital of Switzerland. REUTERS/Denis Balibouse A truck dumps five cent coins in the centre of the Federal Square during a an event organised by the Committee for the initiative "CHF 2,500 monthly for everyone" (Grundeinkommen) in Bern October 4, 2013.  The group had acquired the coins to celebrate their initiative gaining the 100,000 signatures it needed to go to a national referendum in Switzerland's direct democracy system. Their idea? Giving everyone in the country an unconditional basic income of 2,500 francs ($2,800) a month. It's important to note that unconditional basic income isn't a minimum wage (which, incidentally, Switzerland doesn't have): It's far more radical. The money isn't designed to go to the needy ó it goes to every adult citizen, regardless of their financial circumstances. Most Swiss political experts we've spoken to don't think that the proposal could pass (it will probably be voted on in early 2016), but the idea is making waves: Even American libertarians have begun debating whether such a system would work in the U.S. "A minimum wage reduces freedom ó because it is an additional rule,"† Daniel Straub, one of the people behind the initiative told Business Insider in October. "It tries to fix a system that has been outdated for a while. It is time to partly disconnect human labor and income. We are living in a time where machines do a lot of the manual labor ó that is great ó we should be celebrating." Money from the sale of the vault full of money will go to support "Generation Basic Income Initiative," who say they will use the money to "promote the idea of the basic income worldwide and especially in Switzerland." Thus what's real awesome about the sale of this "money swimming pool" isn't the Scrooge McDuck fantasies ó it's the subversion of a "truly global luxury marketplace" to help promote a radical egalitarian idea.
btckeychain/flickrYou may have heard that Fidelity, the world's largest IRA provider, was now providing their clients with the means to invest in Bitcoin. This is not accurate, according to Fidelity.  "At this time, Fidelity does not allow investments in the Bitcoin Investment Trust through our retail platform, including in IRAs," a Fidelity spokesman told Business Insider in an email. At one point, accredited investors with IRA accounts did have access.¬† But Fidelity says that is no longer the case. To be an¬†an accredited investor, you had to be worth more than $1 million ‚Äî excluding your primary residence ‚Äî or have made over $200,000 a year for the past two consecutive years. Basically, you had to be someone like venture capitalist Chamath Palihapitiya, an owner of the Golden State Warriors, who announced his Bitcoin retirement account last week: According to my family office, I am the first person to have bought BTC thru my Fidelity IRA. Long live tax free compounding! SecondMarket's Barry Silbert said in a statement: ¬† "The Bitcoin Investment Trust was previously approved by Fidelity as an eligible investment for accredited clients in their self-directed IRA accounts and investments began closing last week.¬† We understand that Fidelity has decided to reevaluate this decision." ¬† However, since at least November, investment management firms¬†PENSCO and Entrust have also offered Bitcoin retirement options, according to SecondMarket ‚Äî although here again, you must be an accredited investor, according to SecondMarket. Widespread retirement on your Bitcoin savings could happen some day. But it's still in a pretty nascent, amorphous stage.
Wikimedia CommonsStocks are having a rough go of it in North American trading today. The S&amp;P 500 is down 0.5%, trading near 1773, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 0.8%, trading near 15,710. Both are at their lows of the day. Barring an afternoon comeback, this will be the third day in a row that stocks close in the red, and the eighth down day in the last ten sessions. 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are down 0.2%, while the yield on the 10-year note is 2.87%, 2 basis points above yesterday's close. Gold is down 2.4%, trading at $1227 an ounce.
It wasn‚Äôt so long ago that the euro zone‚Äôs peripheral countries were shouldering all the blame for the region‚Äôs financial woes. Whether it was Greece‚Äôs outsized debt load and tax-allergic citizenry, Ireland‚Äôs overleveraged banks or Spain‚Äôs property bubble, most people agreed that the profligate peripherals were the culprits behind the crisis. But lately, the house in the European neighborhood drawing the most ire isn‚Äôt the one with the overgrown lawn and broken windows ‚Äì it‚Äôs the nicest place on the block. A growing chorus of voices is calling for Germany to do more ‚Äî much more ‚Äî to help speed up euro-zone economic growth. Over the last few months, the U.S. Treasury, International Monetary Fund and European Commission have all called on the German authorities to take steps to encourage German consumers and businesses to spend more. The European Commission has even instituted a review of the country‚Äôs large trade surplus to determine whether it has focused too heavily on promoting exports at the expense of demand at home. Review or no review, those calling for change may get their wish before too long. Credit Suisse Head of European Economics Neville Hill says that with German unemployment relatively low at 6.9 percent, there is bound to be upward pressure on wages. And German politicians are doing their bit to fatten paychecks, too. Chancellor Angela Merkel‚Äôs center-right CDU party and the center-left SPD agreed late last month to introduce the first-ever national minimum wage as part of an agreement to form a coalition government. The federal pay standard would disrupt a system of industry-wide collective bargaining that has helped keep German wages relatively low to this point. And the higher Germans‚Äô wages go, the more they will hopefully spend. To many, however, the minimum wage measure is the least the Germans could do. The periphery has already done its share to get Europe back in fighting form, the argument goes, having followed through with actions that the better-off Germans insisted on as a prerequisite for backing euro zone bailouts, including politically-controversial government budget cuts and private sector deleveraging that have in turn driven unemployment to historically high levels and put downward pressure on wages.¬†The resulting reduction in demand for imports and increased competitiveness in exports has seen most periphery countries turn trade deficits into surpluses.  But the drop-off in domestic demand has had the additional effect of pushing inflation to dangerously low levels. Consumer prices were flat in Spain and Portugal in October, but they actually declined in Greece, Ireland and Cyprus. The euro zone‚Äôs overall inflation rate was just 0.9 percent in November and 0.7 percent in October. The ECB has already cut rates from 0.5 percent to 0.25 percent and talked up its other deflation-fighting policy tools. But Germany is a critical piece of the puzzle. Part of Europe‚Äôs current deflationary risk stems from the fact that the region‚Äôs healthiest economy has acted more like a relatively poor, indebted southern European nation than the only one large and strong enough to give the euro zone a hard shove forward. Case in point: Chancellor Angela Merkel‚Äôs cabinet signed off on a ‚Ç¨50 billion stimulus package in 2009, but the very next year, politicians approved a budget that slashed government spending by ‚Ç¨80 billion over four years. Such fiscal tightening is a big reason that domestic German demand has been lackluster over the last four years. Germany‚Äôs own inflation rate was only 1.6 percent in November, though that was an improvement over October‚Äôs 1.2 percent annual rate. Sluggish demand at home has left Germany disproportionately reliant on exports for growth. As a late October report to Congress from the U.S. Treasury‚Äôs Office of International Affairs points out, Germany‚Äôs current account surplus rose to more than 7 percent of GDP in the first half of this year, and exports accounted for a ‚Äúsignificant‚Äù one-third of growth in the second quarter. Nobody is criticizing the country‚Äôs export success. What they‚Äôre concerned with is its failure to encourage more spending by its own citizenry. ‚ÄúWhen I or the U.S. or anyone else says Germany should do something about its current account surplus, what we‚Äôre really saying is that Germany should increase consumer spending, investment and imports,‚Äù Hill tells The Financialist. ‚ÄúWe have no problem with German exports ‚Äì we just wish they would spend more money on other people‚Äôs exports.‚Äù  It‚Äôs not even a short-term trend. As the chart below shows, Germany and the other core countries have been buying less and less from their euro zone compatriots over the last decade-plus.The FinancialistChart from Credit Suisse report entitled ‚ÄúFighting Europe‚Äôs Deflationary Tendency.‚ÄùThe roots of the current imbalance, Hill explains, lie in the fact that the financial crisis upset a wrong-for-everyone equilibrium that had allowed a 17-country bloc of very different economies to exist under a one-size-fits-all monetary policy. Before 2008, the European Central Bank‚Äôs rates were too low for the periphery and too high for Germany. That led to a massive borrowing and consumption binge in the former and export-led economic growth and low inflation in the latter. Things reversed course in the periphery as the sovereign debt crisis gathered steam: Nervous investors drove borrowing rates in the periphery much higher than the ECB‚Äôs policy rate, forcing an immediate and deep deleveraging.  But the reversal wasn‚Äôt matched by an equal and opposite reaction in Europe‚Äôs core, including Germany. Even near-zero interest rates out of the European Central Bank couldn‚Äôt shake German consumers and businesses out of saving their pfennigs.  ‚ÄúThe crisis created an asymmetric adjustment and forced peripheral countries to eliminate their trade deficits very quickly through the very deep recession they experienced,‚Äù Hill said. ‚ÄúBut because financial markets drove this adjustment, and not the ECB, you didn‚Äôt get an offsetting change in Germany that would have boosted domestic demand, and therefore, imports.‚Äù When it comes down to it, any debate about Germany‚Äôs role in the financial crisis is really a conversation about how much austerity a region can take before the cure becomes another disease. In an October paper entitled ‚ÄúFiscal Consolidations and Spillovers in the Euro Area Periphery and Core,‚Äù European Commission economist Jan in ‚Äôt Veld shows that for every euro of either budget cuts or tax increases in a given country, the economy shrinks by an additional ‚Ç¨0.50 to ‚Ç¨1. He also finds that economic growth suffers more when every economy in the region contracts at the same time. His model, which includes France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Greece and Ireland, suggests that so-called spillovers from belt-tightening in neighboring countries reduces GDP by an additional 1.6 percent to 2.6 percent over what a nation would have suffered if it were the only one consolidating. In ‚Äòt Veld notes that fiscal stimulus from core countries such as Germany, France, Austria or the Netherlands wouldn‚Äôt have solved all of the periphery‚Äôs problems, but it might have muted their impact. But by scrapping infrastructure investment plans and holding off on planned maintenance, he says, core countries helped to depress regional growth further and ‚Äúmade adjustment in the periphery harder.‚Äù Still, change seems to be arriving in Germany even without a specific stimulus program. Perhaps the low-earning workers who will benefit immediately from the minimum wage will buy more imported goods from their ailing neighbors. If austerity won out in the austerity vs. growth debate that dominated policy discussion in the throes of the sovereign debt crisis, it‚Äôs becoming clear that the lopsided victory was less than optimal. How to prevent the same thing happening next time around? ‚ÄúThere needs to be a much higher sense of organization, coordination and responsibility at the higher levels of the EU for aggregate fiscal policy,‚Äù Hill tells The Financialist. While it was always a tough sell to the German people that the best-managed and strongest economy in Europe should spend its taxpayers‚Äô money to benefit the entire region, there‚Äôs a growing realization that doing so might actually benefit the Germans more than the alternative. It‚Äôs still not an easy sell, but it‚Äôs getting easier. Ultimately, Hill says, the only sensible solution is a tighter fiscal union in Europe. Someone has to tell the nicest house on the block that property values go up for everyone when the neighborhood prospers.
Wikimedia CommonsLooking for a new drink to try this Christmas season? Dave†Lutz†of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along this "seasonal favorite" in his household ó George and Martha Washington's Eggnog. But be wary, he warns. It's strong. It also takes a fair amount of prep-time. Back in 1783, Annapolis was the Temporary Capital of the US. †George Washington - fresh off military victories - lived in Annapolis with Martha over that winter - resigning his commission leading the Continental Army on†Dec 23rd†in our State House. †Well, George and Martha could throw a heckofa party - and it was all centered around their "infamous" EggNog.So if you are a fan of the nog - dive right in and check out what Martha and George served that Christmas. †Don't let the raw eggs spook you; the alcohol takes care of any bacteria. †Made 5 days ahead, good for about a month (but many have kept much longer) - Disclaimer: †It's strong.Ingredients:12 egg yolks, beaten12 egg whites, beaten to stiff peaks12 tablespoons sugar (Instant Dissolving)1 quart cream1 quart milk1/2 pint Bourbon (Makers) or Rye Whiskey1 pint brandy1/2 pint dark rum (Goslings)1/4 pint sherryMake at least five days ahead of time for the alcohol to cure the raw eggs (an important health consideration). †Make sure all equipment is absolutely clean.Mix liquors together first. Separate yolks and whites of eggs. †Whites need to achieve room temperature.Beat the egg yolks with sugar until they turn to a creamy, light yellow paste.Add liquor to beaten yolks, drop by drop first, slowly beat. Add cream and milk, slowly beating. Once blended, set aside.Beat the whites of eggs until seeing ìstiff peaksî - Peaks will form in the foam, †and the tips will curl over. Carefully fold into the creamy yolk mixture making a "figure 8" motion with a spatula. Folding in the egg whites adds a fluffy texture that will keep your Egg Nog from being too heavy.Let set in a cool place for several days (5+) so flavors can blend. †The mixture will separate as it cures. This is OK. Just be sure to re-incorporate mixture before serving cold. †Top with a sprinkle of nutmeg. Garnish with cinnamon stick if desired.
Moncler GrenobleModels at a Moncler fashion showWant to get rich? Invest in things that rich people buy‚Äîincluding $3,000 ski jackets. Moncler, the Milan-based maker of stylish puffy jackets that retail for between $1,000 and about $3,000, is about to go public on the Milan Stock Exchange. Its sales growth has been so strong that investors are pouring into the stock offering. Reports suggest the shares are 20 times subscribed and are likely to price at the top of the projected range. Moncler is selling a 27 percent stake, or 66.8 million shares, and the sale could raise more than $1 billion and value the company at more than $3 billion. (Read more:¬†1 in 5 in US reaches affluence) The big winners will be the company's investors who bought big stakes in Moncler in 2011. Eurazeo, the French private equity firm, bought a 45 percent stake in 2011 for 418 million euros ($576 million).¬†Carlyle Group¬†owns another 17.8 percent and Brands Partners owns 5 percent. Remo Ruffini, Moncler's charismatic CEO who bought the company in 2003, has a 32 percent stake. (Read more:¬†Even Santa can't help‚ÄîLaFerrari is sold out) But investors could also benefit, as companies that sell to the rich cash in on soaring luxury sales. Shares of other high-end fashion brands, like¬†Brunello Cucinelli¬†and¬†Ferragamo, have surged since their IPOs. And with luxury giants like Kering and¬†LVMH¬†scooping up smaller, sports-oriented luxury brands, Moncler could also become a takeover target. Founded in 1952, Moncler was a sleepy maker of ski jackets in the French Alps. But Ruffini has transformed it into a global fashion icon, with sales up more than 10 fold over the past decade, to 389 million euros in the first nine months of the year. The company's shiny, slim jackets have become a popular status symbol among wealthy women who like the brand's Alpine pedigree and styles, but rarely find themselves on a ski slope. The company's "Femelle" leather jacket with goose down sells for $3,110, while its green, fur-lined "Amelle" reversible vest sells for $2,775. The company has more than tripled its sales in North America and built a huge retail business in Asia. (Read more:¬†Think taxes chase away millionaires? Think again) Ruffini has said he will not sell any shares in the IPO.
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniHomeowner Gary Gless sits on a hill in his neighborhood overlooking drilling wells in Los Angeles, California on December 11, 2013. (Reuters) - When Gary Gless bought his sleek, modernist house in Los Angeles in 2002, he thought he had hit a "gold mine." The world's largest inner-city park - featuring a lush, 18-hole golf course - was about to get built across the street. Gless's balcony was set to overlook the clubhouse and first tee. Today, instead of golf carts and fairways, Gless looks out on to drilling wells and oil pads. The park plan was ditched, and Freeport-McMoRan Oil &amp; Gas LLC now operates 700 wells there - and 400 more are on the way. All the drilling, Gless says, has caused house foundations to crack and swimming pools to start to slide down hills. Gless, who holds the mineral rights to his land but collects no royalties, would move if he could. But he is stuck. "Who would want to live here?" says Gless, who says his house has lost at least 80 percent of its value. "I wouldn't even buy my own home." Freeport-McMoRan, part of Freeport-McMoRan Copper &amp; Gold Inc, said that, for the past three years, its surveys of the oilfield and surrounding communities have found no connection between its activities and "localized claims of property damage." It said it would continue to evaluate the issue. The United States has a long history of keeping industrial activity out of middle and upper-middle-class residential neighborhoods. But that is starting to change with the spread of new technology for oil and gas drilling, such as horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or "fracking." The new techniques have allowed once-unreachable reservoirs of energy, trapped beneath the forested suburbs and bustling urban centers of places like Los Angeles, Denver and Cleveland, to be pumped out for the first time. As a result, millions of American homeowners now find themselves living within a mile of drilling activity that they say is deflating the value of their homes, making it hard for them to move. It is one of the hidden costs of the oil boom, which has created thousands of jobs, spurred local economies and lowered domestic energy costs. "You go to buy a home, you see that it has a well pad in the backyard, and essentially you might say I'm not willing to pay very much for this house," said Elisheba Spiller, an economist at the Environmental Defense Fund. "That's where the drop in value comes in." Spiller - along with Christopher Timmins, a Duke University economics professor, and Lucija Muehlenbachs, a fellow at think tank Resources for the Future - published a working paper on Monday that found shale gas drilling within a kilometer (0.6 mile) of a home can decrease property values by an average of 16.7 percent if the house depends on wells - and not municipal sources - for its drinking water. Gless, the Los Angeles homeowner, gets municipal water during the dry months of summer, but in winter he relies on well water. The study, which analyzed home values in 43 counties in New York and Pennsylvania, was inconclusive about the impact on properties within a kilometer of shale gas wells if houses had water piped in from town. Timmins said his additional research in Texas shows similar results, suggesting the perceived risk of water contamination, based on the proximity of wells, can drag down home values. Brian Straessle, a spokesman for the American Petroleum Institute, an oil and gas industry trade group, declined to comment directly on the findings of the study. He said that, thanks to the U.S. energy boom, American homeowners' energy bills have been cut by an average $1,000 a year and that the industry has led to massive job growth in areas of the country with high joblessness. "Oil and natural gas has been a big, bright spot in our economy for quite some time now," Straessle said. "You need to think of all the folks who, because this industry is creating these jobs, have neighbors who are back to work and who have homes that are not foreclosed on." "UNSELLABLE" There are no databases that keep track of how many homeowners are affected by the U.S. oil and gas drilling boom. Real estate brokers say they see more signs of prospective home buyers worrying about the health and environmental effects of living close to a well. "For the most part, it renders those houses unsellable," said Phyllis Wolper, a Denton, Texas, realtor who has several clients who live near oil and gas wells and have been unable to sell their homes. A University of Denver study found that a majority of 550 people surveyed would decline to buy a home near natural gas drilling. The study, to be published in the Journal of Real Estate Literature, also found up to a 25 percent reduction in bid value for homes located near these "fracking scenarios." "There's a stigma," said Ron Throupe, one of the study's authors and a professor at University of Denver's Daniels College of Business. Little protection is available to homeowners. Insurance policies exclude anything having to do with "industrial operations" and title companies exclude fracking activity from their policies, too. Instead, homeowners in such states as Ohio and Arkansas have sued energy companies, with the allegations ranging from groundwater contamination to loss of their land's market value. Since 2009, landowners in eight states have filed more than 35 suits, according to a report by law firm Fulbright &amp; Jaworski. The landowners either leased land to drillers or lived in "close proximity" to the fracking. SOME HAVE BENEFITED To be sure, many homeowners have benefited from the oil boom. A typical drilling lease can generate bonuses for its owner worth thousands of dollars per acre and a share of production profits as high as 25 percent. In 2012 alone, oil and gas operators paid more than $20 billion in gas royalties, according to the National Association of Royalty Owners. But for those who own land near drilling sites and don't receive royalties, most of them end up with less than nothing. Susan Fowler, an automotive design engineer, owned a roomy, brick Georgian in a top Cleveland school district. Her sun-scrubbed kitchen overlooked a grove of evergreens. But in 2009 she had to flee her home after her neighbor leased his mineral rights and a fracking well popped up next to her backyard. Fowler, who got her water from Cleveland, says the fumes, glaring lights and deafening noise from the trucks and pump jacks made it impossible for her family to stay. They eventually moved to Portland, Oregon. "My beautiful house was all of a sudden on an industrial site," Fowler says. "We wanted to get as far away from fracking as we could." Last year, their house sold for $225,000 - about half its appraised value. (Reporting by Michelle Conlin in New York; Editing by Frank McGurty)
It begins with 1996 because that was my first summer working on The Street and my earliest exposure to the market. I do this every December because I agree with the eminent philosopher Bob Marley when he reminds us ‚ÄúIf you know your history, then you would know where you‚Äôre coming from.‚Äù If we don‚Äôt keep tabs and learn from the lunacy that grips us from year to year, then how can we truly say that we‚Äôve grown as investors? By documenting this stuff, it becomes a permanent part of my knowledge base, a reference to draw from in times to come as we see similar trends play themselves out and the great wheel spins past an endless parade of fear and greed. So what was 2013 about? I would point to five different fads and themes that were very diverse but equally captivating for the investment community. First, let‚Äôs talk about Elon Musk, the man with not one publicly-traded rocket ship but two ‚Äì both Tesla Motors and Solar City were among the hottest stocks in the market in a year of very hot stocks overall. The stocks of Musk‚Äôs companies were more exciting than the Facebook rebirth, the Twitter IPO or the 3D Printing explosion. TSLA began the year as a ‚Äúconcept‚Äù stock with a handful of cars on the road and all kinds of doubt about its balance sheet, manufacturing capabilities, sales strategy and whether or not anyone would actually want a Model S to begin with. But boy did they ever. Other than a negative review in the New York Times, the news was pretty much all good and investors were quick to react. Tesla traded from $35 at the beginning of the year to as high as $180 a share, mostly in a straight line, and the chattering classes on The Street simply could not stop talking about. It‚Äôs gain year-to-date is a scorching 312% and it currently sports a market cap of $17 billion ‚Äì to put that into perspective, that‚Äôs 30% of GM‚Äôs market cap ($55 billion) and Tesla has sold less than 20,000 cars cumulatively since its incorporation! Elon Musk‚Äôs other public company, Solar City, was also no slouch thanks to a new business model (solar panel leasing) and a resurgence in the solar sector in general. SCTY came public one year ago in the dead of December 2012. It is up 328% thus far this year, more than double the global solar stocks‚Äô index return of 142% over the same time frame. To call Elon Musk-related stocks a major fad this year would be an understatement, the man literally became¬†a real-life Tony Stark¬†right before our eyes and everyone wanted in. Last year investors rediscovered index funds and passively managed investments ‚Äì but the problem with that is there‚Äôs no way for fund companies to really make money from it unless they‚Äôre part of the big three (iShares, State Street or Vanguard) and have massive scale. Enter the concept of Smart Beta. This is the idea that fundamentally-weighted indexes could be created and then ETF‚Äôd, the products themselves garnering a higher internal fee justified by historical outperformance vs plain-vanilla cap-weighted products like SPY or QQQ. And so we saw dividend funds proliferate along with earnings-driven indexes and shareholder yield products (dividends plus buybacks) and ‚ÄúAlphaDex‚Äù products and dividend growth indexes and quality screen indexes and equal-weight indexes and dozens of offerings based on just about any way you could slice or dice a passive basket of stocks. BlackRock‚Äôs suite of minimum-volatility index ETFs took in an astonishing $2.6 billion of new assets in the first half of 2013 versus just $745 million through all of 2012. According to Cogent Research, smart beta or¬†non-market cap weighted ETFs have captured 25% of the equity ETF inflows year to date, despite representing only 12% of the industry‚Äôs assets. The idea of fundamentally-weighted indexes is not new ‚Äì Rob Arnott‚Äôs Research Affiliates invented it years ago (whenever you see the term RAFI in the fund product, that‚Äôs them) and WisdomTree has essentially built its ETF empire based on the concept. But this year, thousands of professional portfolio managers became self-styled ‚Äúbeta managers‚Äù. Rich Bernstein, a high visibility strategist and money manager who was in the vanguard of this trend, blew through the $1 billion AUM mark this past spring managing nothing but portfolios of smart beta allocations. Recently, detractors from the quant universe like Cliff Asness (AQR) and James Montier (GMO) have taken on the idea of so-called smart beta, calling it ‚Äúsnake oil sold in new bottles.‚Äù Even the godfather of the concept, Rob Arnott, in a research paper published at the Journal of Portfolio Management, pointed out the fact that virtually all of the success of these strategies can be boiled down to their exposure to the small cap premium and the value stock premium ‚Äì two of the oldest and most well-known anomalies in all of finance. When incoming Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced his sweeping economic reform policies at the end of 2012, most US investors were not paying attention ‚Äì and why should they? Japanese stocks, after all, had been in a bear market for almost a quarter of a century ‚Äì every sputtering rally over the years has led to further disappointment and heartbreak. But this time, something was different. The sheer scale of the thing being attempted was massive, a stimulus three times what Bernanke &amp; Co were pursuing stateside, a reformation involving everything from currency debasement to workplace sexual politics to the outright ope-market purchases of not only Japanese bonds, but Japanese stocks, REITs and ETFs as well by the Bank of Japan. This was some next-level shit and the hedge funds that were paying attention got really big in their long Nikkei / short yen pairs trade. But unlike the major macro trends of the past, this one had a ready-to-wear solution for retail investors to play along and play they did. WisdomTree‚Äôs Japan Hedged Equity ETF, ¬†colloquially known by its ticker symbol DXJ, was perhaps the most perfectly situated strategy ETF of all time. After sitting like a log for a few years, the WisdomTree team hit upon the idea of converting the fund to a long-Japanese stocks, short Japanese currency vehicle in the summer of 2012, just in time. And then the Abenomics cannons went boom and the dollars came flooding in over the transom. According to Index Universe, DXJ was the number one asset gathering ETF of 2013, pulling in almost $8.7 billion in net inflows during the first 11 months of this year. Long the Japanese market while being hedged against the yen was the hottest trade of the year no matter how people wanted to express it, whether it was through DXJ, the small-cap version DXJS or even, as Dan Loeb did, through an activist battle against Sony. Last October, a tiny start-up based on the Island of Malta called Exante Ltd launched the first-ever Bitcoin Hedge Fund. If you didn‚Äôt hear about it at the time, it‚Äôs probably because the cryptocurrency was still relatively unknown in the mainstream and its meteoric price rise hadn‚Äôt yet begun. Bitcoins, a virtual currency requiring computer-powered mining and most often used for anonymous drug deals and smuggling operations, was only changing hands at $14 per unit. In the eyes of the media, it was regarded as somewhere between a geek‚Äôs plaything and a technocrat‚Äôs wet dream. And then all of a sudden, the price of Bitcoin took off concurrent with the public‚Äôs awakening to its potential uses as both a currency and a vehicle for speculation. It‚Äôs still hard to distinguish what happened first ‚Äì the awareness or the price rise ‚Äì but in truth the two things probably fed off of each other. Investment vehicles and exchanges came along to give traders and users an outlet for their enthusiasm and a way into the game. The price of Bitcoin had shot up to a record $1200 and that Exante hedge fund reported¬†an annual return of 4,847%¬†by the end of November ‚Äì the biggest single investment vehicle gain in world history. As of this writing, every single mainstream publication, periodical, website and news program has featured the Bitcoin phenomenon and there are already a handful of competing crypto-currencies coming out of the woodwork.¬†And while the price is up some 10,000% this year, something tells me the investor class‚Äôs infatuation has only just begun. By far, the most important trend in investing this year was the anticipation and celebration of stock repurchases or share buybacks ‚Äì the fuel that powered both corporate earnings growth and the ascent of the stock market. As some columnists have put it, the US stock market spent most of the year literally shrinking! Despite a record year for IPOs, the sheer scale of stock buybacks meant less and less shares to go around. The supply-demand dynamics work the same way in the stock market as they do in any other aspect of business and the effect of this scarcity condition have been amazing for investors. According to FactSet Research,¬†S&amp;P 500 companies repurchased an total of $415 billion worth of their own stock this year, up 12% from 2012. Apple alone authorized a $60 billion repurchase plan, the largest such endeavor of all time, and it‚Äôs probably what finally but a bottom underneath its stock price. Much of this buyback activity stemmed from an inability or unwillingness to invest their cash ‚Äì corporate balance sheets came into the year holding $1.2 trillion of it! Managers buying back stock are able to goose earnings, raise dividends for the remaining shares outstanding and avoid the risk of making a lousy investment or acquisition ‚Äì all of these things juices their compensation and bonus come year-end, so why wouldn‚Äôt they shrink their floats? They are aided and abetted in this activity by their shareholders, many of whom are institutions actively seeking yield that they cannot obtain from the bond market ‚Äì and nothing enables a company to grow its dividend yield like a smaller share count, the two go hand in hand with cash-rich companies. And no one is more enamored of the buyback effect than Wall Street‚Äôs man of the year, Carl Icahn, a shareholder activist with almost 50 market-moving years under his belt, who probably had the biggest year of his career in 2013. He kicked things off in January with a two-hour televised beatdown of rival hedge fund activist Bill Ackman and continued kick ass and decapitate anything in his path all year long. When he wasn‚Äôt ringing up billions in profits with Netflix stock, he was driving up the price of Herbalife. This was in between moving shares of Apple, the largest of large cap stocks in America, with 140-character tweets on Twitter in his spare time. Carl was scoring left and right and by the end of November, he had surpassed George Soros as the wealthiest hedge fund manager in the world, gaining $8 billion in investment gains this year alone for a total net worth of somewhere around $22 billion. And then¬†TIME Magazine put him on the cover, calling him ‚Äúthe most important investor in America.‚Äù Quite a year for a 77 year old kid from Queens. *** So those were the big stories of the year that investors and traders bought into. Below is my updated guide to the¬†Investing Fads and Themes by Year, 1996 ‚Äì 2013.¬† Enjoy! TheReformedBroker.com See previous years below! 2012 2011 2010 2009 Follow me on Twitter
REUTERS/ Steve MarcusA rough year for Eric Sprott, avowed gold bugCanadian hedge fund manager Eric Sprott loves him some gold. But unfortunately for Sprott and his clients, the shiny yellow metal has had a rough 2013. The Wall Street Journal's Rob Copeland reports that Sprott's main fund has dropped more than 50% this year, the third straight year of double-digit declines. From the Journal: Redemptions and weak performance have pushed down hedge-fund assets managed by Mr. Sprott to about $350 million from nearly $3 billion in 2008. The declines are largely due to the conviction of Mr. Sprott‚Äîfor the most part unshaken‚Äîthat gold and other precious metals will rise in the long term. Gold has dropped 25% over the past year and is on track for its first annual decline after 12 years of gains. It settled Wednesday at $1,257 a troy ounce. Silver, another favorite of Mr. Sprott's, is down 33% and settled Wednesday at $20.36 an ounce. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal ¬ª
A lot of conservatives are griping about the new budget deal that boosts short-term spending slightly.¬† But the fact of the matter is that the GOP has won the budget wars. The first one comes from Michael Linden and compares the different budget proposals over the past couple of years to the Murray-Ryan compromise: Center for American Progress/Michael Linden The spending in the Murray-Ryan deal is less than in the original Ryan budget! The second one comes from Paul Krugman today and show the real three-year changes in total government spending: Paul Krugman Spending has declined faster since 2008 than it did at any point in the past 50 years. And yet, despite this steep austerity, conservatives are the ones who oppose the deal. This final graph from Yuval Levin¬†shows the absurdity of that position: Scott Winship¬† The Murray-Ryan deal raises spending slightly in the next two years, but returns to the original path of sequestration in 2016. The rise in spending is minor, yet conservative groups are furious. This gets to the heart of the conservative position.¬†We've passed an unprecedented amount of austerity during the Obama presidency, more than even Paul Ryan originally envisioned. You would think that liberals would be the ones enraged by these budget deals, but they're not. It's the right-wing groups for whom no amount of budget cuts are ever enough. Correction: The final graph comes from Yuval Levin with a h/t to Scott Winship.
AP PhotoHotel chain Hilton Worldwide raised $2.34 billion in its IPO. It opened at $21.30 on Thursday, compared with IPO price at $20. That's up about 8%. Blackstone took Hilton private in 2007. It holds 81.5% of the company and isn't selling any of its shares in the offering. "The big challenges for the industry are on the supply side," he said. And since banks have loosened up with lending, that's allowing companies in the hotel space to increase supply," Ryan Meliker, an analyst with MLV &amp; Co. told Business Insider ahead of the IPO. A demand shock from a global economic slowdown would be a headwind, he said. Meliker also explained that Blackstone has a lockup on its Hilton investment that will expire in the next three years. And when that happens, it will need to return capital to investors, and sell a bunch of its Hilton stock.
"The fact that India," said investor, fund manager and best-selling author Jim Rogers to†BullionVault† overnight, "which has been the largest buyer, has reduced its buying a lot is one of the main factors that's causing gold prices to go down." Currently blocking imports with high duties and strict re-export rules, "[India] can probably tolerate $30 billion worth of import of gold," said C.Rangarajan, chief of the Indian prime minister's Economic Advisory Council, to an economics conference in Delhi today. "As inflation comes down and as financial assets become more attractive, perhaps part of the demand for gold can come down too." Indian gold imports have totaled nearer $50 billion over the last 12 months, and are blamed by the†Economic Times†today for "inflating India's current account deficit†to a historic high of 4.8% of GDP in 2012-13." Noting plans to "mobilize" existing consumer gold holdings, "If the Indian politicians somehow get their people to sell gold,†whoo!" said Jim Rogers to BullionVault. "Who knows how low†gold could go?" Adding that he's hedged a portion of his personal gold holdings against further price falls, but not his silver position, Rogers says the US budget deal means "the government is under no constraint. Central banks can [also] print as much as they want. "With all this staggering amount of currency debasement, gold has got to be a good place to be down the road once we get through this correction." This week's US budget deal will meantime "add pressure on gold and silver," reckons a note from Standard Bank's commodity team in London. Although "tiny, minuscule" according to some commentators, the deal between Republican and Democrat politicians to avert a repeat of the debt-ceiling shutdown early next year now means "another hurdle to economic growth in the US has been removed," writes analyst Walter de Wet, "and this increases the probability that the US Fed may start to reduce their asset purchases this month." So "from a tactical perspective," Standard Bank's de Wet concludes, "we still believe that gold should be sold into rallies." Right now, says Jim Rogers, "I'm not buying either gold or silver...but if I had to buy one today,†I'd buy silver because†it certainly has gone down more than gold. "So on a historic priced-basis if nothing else, I'd rather own silver." If the two precious metals do fall sharply from here, he added, "I hope I'm smart enough to buy more." Adrian Ash BullionVault
Somali piracy has reached a six year low, according to a new report from Control Risks. The number of piracy incidents from January 1-October 1, 2013 was down 90% from the corresponding period in 2012. The huge reduction is due to a few key factors. "Adherence to best management practices by crews and vessel operators; a significant naval presence offshore; and the continued use of armed security on board vessels. Additional onshore factors, such as the development of local security forces, have also played a part," according to the report. Still, "suspicious approaches" continue in the region and pirate groups "remain operational." In 2014, activity is "likely to remain at a relatively low level, with periodic spikes." Here's the snapshot of global piracy. Look at the crazy drop in the Horn of Africa. Control Risks
REUTERS/ Larry DowningAwkward silence.Politico's Ben White and Maggie Haberman have taken a deep dive into Wall Street's fraught relationship with Washington. Writing in Politico Magazine (the publication's new longform progeny), White and Haberman characterize why bankers are so upset with both Democrats and Republicans. Two paragraphs get to the heart of it. From Politico: On both sides of the political spectrum, the titans of American finance today find themselves alienated from politics to a surprising degree. On the left, the rift has been precipitated by populist outrage and a damaged, difficult relationship with the White House. The discord and disappointment has simmered for years, and is now boiling toward the surface on both sides, particularly for donors who felt burned and spurned by a White House they helped electÖ Meanwhile, on the right, the estrangement owes to the failures of Mitt Romneyís presidential campaign ó a loss that has prompted Wall Street donors to sit on their cash and question the return that their investments in Republican politics can generate ÖThis is not the first time that Wall Street has found itself at odds with one of the political parties in Washington. But it may be the first time since the Great Depression that the New York banker class has been this disconnected from both parties simultaneously. The piece goes on to document how Wall Street's "initial rosy expectations" for its relationship with Obama ó largely due to hefty campaign donations ó have been all but dashed. Read the full piece at Politico Magazine ª
MSNBCThe House of Representatives will vote Thursday on the budget deal brokered by Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), who appeared on multiple morning shows to sell the deal.¬† During an appearance on "Morning Joe," Ryan was asked by host Joe Scarborough to respond to criticism from Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), who said in a statement that the deal would contribute to making it "harder for more Americans to achieve the American Dream." Ryan seemed dumbfounded by this criticism, and when asked to respond, he hesitated. "Uh ... read the deal and get back to me," Ryan said, chuckling.  Ryan then argued that it's easier for Rubio and Republicans in the Senate to be against the bill, because they are in the minority party in that chamber.¬†Ryan said that in the House, where he is chairman of the Budget Committee, he is worried about governing. "Look, that's ‚Äî people are going to do what they need to do. In the minority you don't have the burden of governing, of getting things done," Ryan said.¬† Later, Ryan added of Rubio's statement: "I thought it was a little strange. It is what it is." Watch the clip below: 
The stock is down by over 10%. So what's happening? Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisors says the story can be explained in two charts. "Outside of comps having peaked many quarters ago, Lululemon has not found a way to more efficiently and consistently develop its product to drive gross margin expansion relative to the comp slowdown," he said in an email blast to clients. Sozzi continued: When it DID try and develop its products a little cheaper, #SeeThroughGate reared its ugly head. That is why with increasing competitors attempting to replicate Lululemon's success in a low barrier to entry industry (a strong social media community does not qualify as having a wide moat...), which is eating into market share (see in the comp trend), made it especially critical for the company to bring in a new CEO, as it did, with a deep operations background.† The goal for him will not only be to reignite comps through new categories and global expansion, but to find ways to re-engineer the product to bring down costs and set gross margins back into expansionary territory (and then prepare them for another slowdown cycle well off into the future). By #SeeThroughGate, Sozzi is referring to customer complaining that Lululemon's yoga pants were see-through. Sozzi doesn't recommend investing in Lululemon.
Bitcoin startup Coinbase announced today that it raised $25 million in a series B funding from Andreessen Horowitz, with previous investors kicking in some more cash.¬† Coinbase does a little bit of everything with bitcoin. It's a bitcoin wallet for consumers, it allows merchants to take bitcoins as payments, and its working on a way for developers to integrate bitcoin into applications.¬† This brings Coinbase's total money raised to $31 million. It says it has 600,000 bitcoin wallets, up from 300,000 in mid-October, and it's averaging 10,000 sign ups per day. It says it will use the latest round "to expand our team, continue to educate the market, and promote the mainstream adoption of Bitcoin." Andreessen Horowitz partner Chris Dixon is joining Coinbase's board. So is Fred Wilson, who is a partner at USV, which participated in the series A, and is participating in this round. Ribbit Capital is also participating in the round. These two are some of the smartest, most respected people in venture capital. Wilson invested early in Twitter, Zynga, Tumblr, and many other companies that went on to be big hits. Dixon is new as a VC, but as an angel investor he had great taste, and he's sold multiple companies. His firm, Andreessen Horowitz, is the most influential firm in the Valley right now. The price of bitcoin has been all over the place provoking a lot of debate about its merits as a legitimate currency for the masses.¬† We're not going to get into that here. Instead, we have¬†Dixon's explanation of his investment. For him, bitcoin is more than just a new currency, it's a new platform for the Internet. Here's his full explanation from his blog: One of the interesting things about Bitcoin is the contrast between how it is portrayed in the press and how it is understood by technologists. The press tends to portray Bitcoin as either a speculative bubble or a scheme for supporting criminal activity. In Silicon Valley, by contrast, Bitcoin is generally¬†viewed¬†as a¬†profound¬†technological breakthrough. The Internet is based on a set of core protocols that specify how information such as text, photos, and code should be transmitted. The designers of the Web built¬†placeholders¬†for a system that moved money, but never successfully completed it. Bitcoin is the first plausible proposal for an economic protocol for the Internet. This matters for two reasons: 1) It fixes serious problems with existing payment systems that depend on centralized services to verify the validity of transactions. These services are both expensive (roughly a 2.5% tax on all transactions) and prone to failure (Internet payment fraud is rampant). 2) More importantly, Bitcoin is a platform upon which new technologies can be developed. Developers have created some¬†early¬†applications, and¬†speculated¬†about future applications. Some potential applications include: a) micropayments as a replacement for banner ads or subscription fees, b) machine-to-machine payments to reduce spam and denial-of-service attacks, c) a way to offer low-cost financial services to people who, because of financial or political constraints, don‚Äôt have them today. But to proliferate widely, Bitcoin needs a killer app the same way HTTP had web browsers and SMTP had email clients. That‚Äôs why today I‚Äôm excited to announce that Andreessen Horowitz is leading a $25M financing of¬†Coinbase, a service that provides an accessible interface to the Bitcoin protocol. Consumers can use Coinbase to convert to and from other currencies and to pay for goods and services. Merchants can use Coinbase to accept payments and convert currencies. Developers can build new services using Coinbase‚Äôs API. Coinbase has grown extremely fast and is now the most widely used Bitcoin service in the US. The founders of Coinbase, Brian Armstrong and Fred Ehrsam, have worked closely with banks and regulators to ensure that the service is safe and compliant. We think Coinbase can significantly accelerate Bitcoin‚Äôs proliferation, and as that happens the Internet will enter a new phase of invention and opportunity.
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithInitial jobless claims spiked upward to 368,000. Consensus was for 320,000. And that's up from a revised 300,000 last week. Full release ¬ª TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg commented: "The large increase can largely be attributed to strong seasonal factors influencing the data, however, and we recommend fully discounting the latest week‚Äôs data as it obscures the 'true' trend in claims, which we see in the 315K-335K range. The impact of sizeable seasonal adjustment factors will continue to obscure the underlying trend in claims over the coming weeks, making it quite unlikely that we see a ‚Äúclean‚Äù claims print until late-January." ¬† ¬† Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna Tweeted the same: The +68k jump in #joblessclaims is due to seasonal distortions. We expect #claims to fall back toward the 4-wk mvg avg of 329k next week The four-week moving average was 328,750, an increase of 6,000 from a revised 322,750. Continuing claims also bumped higher, to 2,791,000, versus a revised 2,751,000 last week and consensus 2,757,000. "The broader trend in continuing claims has been one of gradual decline," Goldberg said. "It is also worth noting that emergency benefits hit a post-crisis low in the latest week, falling to 1249K from 1351K; we believe that while some of the improvement can be partially attributed to long‚Äìterm unemployed workers finding jobs, a large portion of the decline is likely the byproduct of worker attrition from the labor force. We expect this series to be closely watched over the coming months as government funding for emergency claims benefits is set to expire at the end of 2013."¬† Click here for updates...
Jonathan Alcorn/ReutersAdvance November U.S. retail sales data are out. Total retail sales were up 0.7%, ahead of Wall Street's consensus estimate of 0.6% growth. October sales growth was revised up to 0.6% from 0.4%. Excluding sales of autos, retail sales were up 0.4% ‚Äî better than the 0.2% consensus estimate.¬†October ex-autos sales growth was revised up to 0.5% from 0.2%. Excluding sales of both autos and gas, retail sales were up 0.6%, ahead of the 0.3% consensus estimate. October ex-autos-and-gas sales growth was revised up to 0.6% from 0.3%. Finally, the retail sales control group ‚Äî a figure that feeds into GDP calculations ‚Äî advanced 0.5%, better than the 0.3% estimate. October control group growth was revised up to 0.7% from 0.4%. Click here for the full release ¬ª
REUTERS/ Stefano RellandiniPope Francis, announced as TIME's Person of the Year, hugs a child as he arrives to lead the weekly audience in Saint Peter's Square this summer.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton(Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; and federal authorities are nearing settlements over the bank's relationship with convicted Ponzi schemer¬†Bernard¬†Madoff, striking tentative deals that would involve about $2 billion in penalties and a rare criminal action,¬†the New York Times¬†reported. The settlements would fault the bank for turning a blind eye to¬†Madoff's huge Ponzi scheme,¬†the Times¬†said, citing¬†people briefed on the case. JPMorgan spokesman¬†Joseph Evangelisti¬†declined to comment on¬†the New York Times¬†report when contacted by Reuters. Madoff¬†was convicted in 2009 of defrauding thousands of investors and is serving a 150-year prison sentence. JPMorgan has been accused of ignoring warning signs that¬†Madoff's business was a fraud, often to win more fees and commissions for services they provided. The New York Times¬†said the settlement with federal prosecutors in Manhattan would include a so-called deferred-prosecution agreement and more than $1 billion in penalties to resolve the criminal case. The rest of the fines would be imposed by Washington regulators investigating broader gaps in the bank's money-laundering safeguards, the paper said. JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, recently reached a $13 billion settlement of a range of government claims over bad mortgage securities and struck another deal with regulators to pay about $1 billion for its "LondonWhale" derivatives trading debacle. (Reporting by Chris Peters in Bangalore; Editing by Supriya Kurane)
The stock is down by over 10% in pre-market trading. Lululemon reported Q3 earnings of $0.45 per share, beating expectations fo $0.41 per share. During the period, comparable store sales were up 5% at the yoga apparel retailer.¬† This compares to expectations for a 5.3% gain. "This so far has been a year of challenges, learning, and growth for lululemon, and while our outlook for the fourth quarter is being impacted by both macro and execution issues, I believe that the investments we are making in the business combined with the team in place create a strong platform for growth in the years ahead," said CEO Christine Day. Guidance however, was light. Management expects to earn $0.78 to $0.80 per share in Q4. This range is below analysts' expectation for $0.84. Comparable store sales are expected to be flat during the period. All of this comes as competition intensifies in the yoga-apparel category. Lululemon stumbled in recent months as customers complained about see-through pants.
Dr. Ed's BlogNothing bubbly about this.There are plenty of other P/Es that have more historical data, though they tend to be quarterly rather than daily/weekly/monthly as is the forward P/E of the S&amp;P 500, which is our preferred measure of valuation. As of Q3, the market capitalization of equities was 14.7 times corporate profits, not much higher than the average since 1960. Tobin‚Äôs ‚Äúq‚Äù measures the market value of nonfinancial corporations relative to their replacement cost. During Q3, it was equal to 1.0, which is in fair-value territory. Dr. Ed's BlogNothing bubbly about this either. Today's Morning Briefing: The Great Moderation II. (1) Two alternative scenarios. (2) Is New Normal the return of the ‚ÄúGreat Moderation?‚Äù (3) Bernanke‚Äôs remarkable speech. (4) Higher P/E for New Normal or Old Normal? (5) Forward P/E slightly exceeds historical average. (6) Other P/Es are in fairly-valued territory too. (7) Tobin‚Äôs q ratio is 1.0. (8) Great Recession II? (9) A list of excesses. (More for subscribers.)
Good luck finding a new home to buy in Southern California these days-the supply of new home projects open and selling in Southern California is currently at a 20-year low. Cautious capital, a lack of finished lots, and notoriously slow planning departments are all contributing to a serious deficit of new for-sale housing in the region. There are currently just 419 actively selling new home projects in Southern California. In comparison, the market has averaged 1,045 actively selling projects annually over the last 20 years. In peak years, there have been over 1,600 actively selling projects. The current supply is 60% below the long-term average and 75% below peak years. The number of active projects in Southern California would need to be 2.5 times higher than today just to return to the average of the last 20 years. John Burns Real Estate Consulting The lack of new home supply is holding down total sales activity and contributing to rising prices. Historically, when the supply of new housing has increased, new housing's capture of total sales has increased as well. Over the last 20 years, new home sales have represented an average of 13% of total home sales in the region. However, when supply is highest, the new home capture rate rises to over 16%. Conversely, when supply is lowest, sales capture plummets, averaging only about 6%. If there were more new home supply on the market today, new home sales would be much higher. John Burns Real Estate Consulting¬† It is worth noting that resale activity in Southern California will likely total about 239,000 units this year, which is only about 4% below the annual average of the last 20 years. New home sales on the other hand are on pace to total only about 15,000 sales this year, which is 58% below the average of the last 20 years. If resales this year in Southern California are off the long-term average by only 4%, why are new home sales down 58%? The answer is clear: lack of supply! The biggest declines in the number of active projects have been in San Bernardino, San Diego, and Riverside Counties. John Burns Real Estate Consulting¬† So while we recommend that any comprehensive market feasibility study for new residential development should include a review of both market supply and demand conditions, the potential for an over-supply of housing in most Southern California markets is not a major source of concern at this time.
It was the second time in a year GM had trimmed its expectations of a deal that was agreed in February but said the alliance could still offer up new opportunities. In a joint press release on Thursday, the car makers canceled a joint vehicle project and said annual savings from sharing development costs on a raft of projects will now come to only $1.2 billion, rather than $2 billion. "The partners are now focused on execution of the Alliance while remaining open to new opportunities," GM's executive vice president and Opel Chief Executive Karl-Thomas Neumann said. Work to develop a light commercial vehicle, a multi-purpose people carrier and a crossover SUV would continue, they said. But PSA and General Motors said they would stop joint development of a common vehicle platform and small petrol engine, once again reducing the scope of what was intended to be a broad-based alliance announced in February. "Joint ventures always start with overly ambitious targets," ISI analyst Arndt Ellinghorst said, adding that he currently estimated joint savings for Peugeot and GM to amount to zero. "Partnerships can work, but it always takes much longer for the benefits to materialize," Ellinghorst said. The Peugeot-GM alliance had sought to save cash through joint purchasing, logistics and three programs to develop small cars and two minivan families, for introduction in 2016 through 2018. For GM it is the second attempt at forging a broad-based alliance in Europe. Previously, it had sought to develop small vehicles with Italian partner Fiat &lt;FIA.MI&gt;, but that venture fell apart in 2005 and GM was forced to pay Fiat $2 billion to dissolve the partnership. Peugeot, its sister brand Citroen and Opel are among those worst-hit by a European car sales slump that put a $1.8 billion dent in GM's 2012 earnings. Over the past 13 years, GM has racked up losses of more than $18 billion in Europe. (Editing by Anna Willard)
REUTERSWhat are you thinking, Mr. Fischer?Everyone's talking about Stanley Fischer, the former Bank of Israel governor and IMF managing director who has been reportedly recruited by the White House to be the next Vice Chair of the Federal Reserve. Economists are overwhelmingly in favor of the choice as he is credited for effectively steering the Israeli economy through the financial crisis. So, what do we know about Fischer. Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius and Kris Dawsey have a report structured as a Q&amp;A. Here are the two questions regarding Fischer's views on monetary policy: Q. What are his views on balance sheet policy? Fischer generally holds a favorable view on the effectiveness of balance sheet policy. As noted, the Bank of Israel began a program of longer-dated securities purchases under his watch. He also stated in a November speech at the IMF that one of the key lessons from the financial crisis, in his view, was that monetary policy is not impotent once the zero lower bound on short-term interest rates has been hit. He specifically highlighted the efficacy of the Fed's QE‚Äïwhich he said was supported by a substantial amount of academic work‚Äïand did not explicitly mention forward guidance on the path of short-term interest rates. In other words, Fischer is not shy about loose and easy monetary policy. What about forward guidance? This topic was a bit more interesting. (Emphasis added) Q. What does he think about forward guidance? In contrast to his statements on QE, he has recently expressed a more skeptical view of forward guidance. Specifically, he noted in September that "if you give too much forward guidance you do take away flexibility," that "we don‚Äôt know what we‚Äôll be doing a year from now. It‚Äôs a mistake to try and get too precise," and that "you can‚Äôt expect the Fed to spell out what it‚Äôs going to do...because it doesn‚Äôt know." These statements contrast with Yellen's strong endorsement of forward guidance. In that sense, Fischer's statements do pose at least some risk to our expectation that the FOMC will ultimately enhance its forward guidance by reducing the unemployment threshold to 6.0%. That said, such a limited number of statements are unlikely to capture all of the nuances of Fischer's thinking on the topic. One can also argue that his criticisms apply mostly to calendar-based guidance and less to outcome-based guidance, which only requires the Fed to "spell out what it's going to do" in a more conditional sense. In any case, we have little doubt that Yellen and Fischer would see eye to eye on the need to prevent a large tightening of financial conditions anytime soon, so the slightly greater uncertainty that might result from his nomination is mainly about tactics, not strategy. Forward guidance is becoming a hot topic lately as it appears it will become a more important policy tool as the Fed eventually tapers and ends quantitative easing.
REUTERS/Tony GentilePope Francis gives a blessing during the prayer to celebrate the Immaculate Conception in Piazza di Spagna (Spain's Square) in downtown Rome December 8, 2013. VATICAN CITY (Reuters) - Pope Francis attacked mega-salaries and big bonuses on Thursday, saying in the first peace message of his pontificate that they are symptoms of an economy based on greed and inequality. In his message for the¬†Roman Catholic Church's World Day of Peace, marked by the Church around the world on January 1, he also called for more sharing of wealth among people and nations to narrow the gap between the rich and poor. "The grave financial and economic crises of the present time ... have pushed man to seek satisfaction, happiness and security in consumption and earnings out of all proportion to the principles of a sound economy," he said. "The succession of economic crises should lead to a timely rethinking of our models of economic development and to a change in lifestyles," he said. Francis, who was named Time magazine's Person of the Year on Wednesday, has urged his own Church to be more fair, frugal and less pompous and to be closer to the poor and suffering. His message will be sent to national leaders, international organizations such as the¬†United Nations, and NGO's. Titled "Fraternity, the Foundation and Pathway to Peace", the message also attacked injustice, human trafficking, organized crime and the weapons trade as obstacles to peace. The new pope's style is characterized by frugality. He shunned the spacious papal apartment in the¬†Vatican's Apostolic Palace¬†to live in a small suite in a Vatican guest house, and he prefers a¬†Ford Focus¬†to the traditional pope's Mercedes. A champion of the downtrodden, he visited the island of Lampedusa in¬†southern Italy¬†in July to pay tribute to hundreds of migrants who had died crossing the sea from¬†North Africa. (Reporting by Philip Pullella; Editing by Louise Ireland)
According to multiple reports, the White House has asked Stanley Fischer to be the next Vice Chair of the Federal Reserve. So far, we've heard nothing but endorsements for Fischer, who is credited for successfully navigating Israel's economy through the financial crisis. "We think it is great news that the Administration may nominate Stanley Fischer to be vice-chairman of the Federal Reserve Board," wrote Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart in a note titled The Fed Dream Team. "Fischer has been around the inner circle of international economic policymaking for three decades. If he was not at a major meeting in person, one of his students from his long tenure at MIT probably was." Fischer's student have included current Fed Chair Ben Bernanke and ECB chair Mario Draghi. "The most relevant experience for the job as vice- chairman was his eight years of service as First Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund," added Reinhart. "He effectively ran the institution for the Clinton Treasury from below an MD who was either headed for retirement (Michel Camdessus) or viewed by them as inadequate (Horst Kohler). When you add his service at the World Bank and as governor of the Bank of Israel, Fischer has a resume that cannot be topped." Fischer would serve alongside Janet Yellen, who is expected to be confirmed as the next Fed Chair this month. "A Yellen-Fischer-led Fed would likely work as a world-class institution if all goes according to plan," wrote Reinhart.
AppleNEW YORK (Reuters) -¬†Europe, long a scapegoat for weak earnings at U.S. multinational companies, is now looking like a more dependable source of profits, and that could make some stocks that have lagged this year's rally more enticing to investors. Big players in the technology sector, which has the highest exposure to¬†Europe, are among those best positioned for a boost to the bottom line from the region's gradual recovery. On a price-to-earnings basis, tech as a group is nearly 8 percent cheaper than the benchmark S&amp;P 500 index, now at its most expensive since late 2008, suggesting some tech stocks may have room to catch up. Tech names with some of the highest exposure to¬†Europe, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data, have mostly underperformed this year. IBM &lt;IBM.N&gt; is down 8.5 percent on the year, while Oracle &lt;ORCL.N&gt;, is up just 3.7 percent. Both derive at least 32 percent of their sales from¬†Europe. Meanwhile the S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; is up 25 percent. Energy, which also has high exposure to¬†Europe, lags the S&amp;P 500's gains as well. The euro zone, a source of weak sales for S&amp;P 500 companies for several quarters, emerged from its recession earlier this year. If its recovery persists, the region could help U.S. earnings get off their own path of lackluster growth. "It's important for investors to realize¬†Europe¬†doesn't have to be a hole anymore in earnings," said Joseph Quinlan, managing director and chief market strategist at¬†U.S. Trust,¬†Bank of America Private¬†Wealth Management in New York. "Even a little growth in¬†Europe¬†is going to go a long way to help boost the profitability of U.S. multinationals." To be sure, a rebound in¬†Europe¬†is expected to be slow and spotty, much like the U.S. recovery, and many argue optimism about the improvement is premature. While the¬†European Commission¬†has forecast 1.1 percent GDP growth in 2014 after a 0.4 percent contraction this year, the¬†European Central Bank¬†last month surprised investors by cutting interest rates to help spur its tepid growth. Relative enterprise valuation data on companies with the most foreign exposure are trading close to their steepest discount to more domestically oriented names in the last decade, BAML data showed, while its global fund manager survey showed managers are overweight U.S. and U.S.-centric stocks and underweight more foreign-exposed ones. The tech sector's forward PE is 14.1 times expected earnings, among the lowest of the 10 S&amp;P sectors, Thomson Reuters StarMine data shows. The PE for energy, which has the third-largest exposure to¬†Europe¬†after materials, is 13.1, lowest of any sector. Meanwhile, one of the least-exposed sectors to¬†Europe, consumer discretionary, sports a multiple of 18.2. The overall S&amp;P 500 is trading at 15.3 times forward 12-month earnings, the most expensive it has been by that measure since the fourth quarter of 2008. Within tech, IBM's PE is 9.9, and Oracle's is 11.7. Hewlett-Packard's forward PE is 7.5, expanding from around 4 in January, as its stock is up nearly 90 percent this year. As a region,¬†Europe¬†accounts for the biggest part of overseas sales for U.S. companies, representing about 10 percent of S&amp;P 500 company sales, S&amp;P data shows. "I would say there's still upside in these global cyclical companies," Quinlan said. "There's room to put money to work still." Results from U.S. companies generating the bulk of sales overseas turned the corner in the third quarter, and fourth-quarter results for that group are expected to improve more, thanks largely to¬†Europe, according to Mizuho Securities USA. "What we began to see in the third quarter was some evidence that the improvement in¬†Europe¬†is filtering through profits here in the U.S.," said¬†Carmine Grigoli, chief U.S. investment strategist at Mizuho Securities USA in New York. Based on results from 83 S&amp;P 500 companies that generate 60 percent or more of revenue from overseas, year-over-year earnings declined 10 percent in the first half of the year and were down 0.4 percent in the third quarter. They are expected to rise 3.3 percent in the fourth quarter, Mizuho's data showed. That compares with the S&amp;P 500's 2.5 percent profit gain in the first half and 4.5 percent gain in the third quarter. Revenue for those 83 companies fell 5.3 percent in the first half and rose 0.3 percent in the third quarter, while it is forecast to increase 1 percent in the fourth quarter. Moreover, U.S. companies have begun to talk about¬†Europe¬†in a more positive light.¬†Federal Express¬†&lt;FDX.N&gt; and¬†Ford Motor¬†Co &lt;F.N&gt; were among companies citing an improving picture for the region in the latest reporting period. Ford in October posted stronger-than-expected quarterly results and boosted its full-year global profit forecast based on its European outlook and overseas demand. It said its European unit will be profitable in 2015, earlier than previously expected. "It's been a huge shift in the rhetoric and the outlook over the past couple of quarters," in terms of¬†Europe, said¬†Dan Suzuki, equity strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York. (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Dan Burns and Bob Burgdorfer)
REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach"I'm not a failure. I deliver."JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - A South African sign language interpreter accused of gesticulating gibberish as world leaders paid tribute to Nelson Mandela defended himself as a "champion" signer on Thursday, but said he suffered a schizophrenic episode during the event. The interpreter, identified as 34-year-old Thamsanqa Jantjie, told Johannesburg's Star newspaper he started hearing voices and hallucinating while on stage, resulting in gestures that made no sense to outraged deaf people around the world. "There was nothing I could do. I was alone in a very dangerous situation. I tried to control myself and not show the world what was going on. I am very sorry. It's the situation I found myself in," he told the paper. He did not know what triggered the attack, he added, saying he took medication for his schizophrenia. Millions of TV viewers saw Jantjie interpreting for leaders including U.S. President Barack Obama and his South African counterpart, Jacob Zuma, at Tuesday's Mandela memorial. Afterwards South Africa's leading deaf association denounced Jantjie as a fake, saying he was inventing signs. However, in a radio interview Jantjie said he was happy with his performance at the memorial to the anti-apartheid hero, who died a week ago aged 95. "Absolutely, absolutely. I think that I've been a champion of sign language," he told Talk Radio 702. When contacted by Reuters he said he could not understand why people were complaining now rather than during other performances. "I'm not a failure. I deliver," he said, before hanging up. The controversy has overshadowed South Africa's 10-day farewell to Mandela, whose remains were lying in state for a second day on Thursday at Pretoria's Union Buildings, where he was sworn in as the nation's first black president in 1994. Revelations about Jantjie's unconventional gestures - experts said he did not know even basic signs such as 'thank you' or 'Mandela' - sparked a hunt for the mystery mimer on Wednesday. The government, which was in charge of the mass memorial, said it had no idea who he was, a comment echoed by the ruling African National Congress (ANC), even though footage from two large ANC events last year showed him signing on stage next to Zuma. Jantjie said he worked for a company called SA Interpreters hired by the ANC for Tuesday's ceremony at Johannesburg's 95,000-seat Soccer City stadium. "Absolutely. That's what happened," he told the radio. The ANC denied any knowledge of Jantjie, but said it was investigating. "I'm very, very surprised," spokesman Jackson Mthembu said. "We will follow this up. We are not sure if there is any truth in what has been said." The death of Nobel peace laureate Mandela triggered an outpouring of grief and emotion - as well as celebration and thanksgiving - among his 53 million countrymen and millions more around the world. His body will lie in state for a third day on Friday before being flown to the Eastern Cape, where it will be buried on Sunday at his ancestral home in Qunu, 700 km (450 miles) south of Johannesburg. Thousands of mourners continue to queue to say goodbye to Mandela in Pretoria in the building where the anti-apartheid hero was inaugurated in 1994 as South Africa's first black president. (Additional reporting by Ed Cropley; Editing by Pascal Fletcher, John Stonestreet)
REUTERS/Bobby Yip A man braves heavy rains outside the Hong Kong Exchange Square August 10, 2009. Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing (HKEx) which recently assumed pole position among global exchanges in terms of market capitalisation, is expected to arrest a decline in its profit growth in its second-quarter as daily turnover marked a smart recovery. SINGAPORE (Reuters) - A former Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; banker convicted of insider trading will have to pay more than 290 investors a total of HK$23.9 million ($3.08 million) they lost out on, a¬†Hong Kong court¬†ordered on Thursday, in an unprecedented legal ruling. Du Jun, a former banker for Morgan Stanley Asia Limited, was ordered by¬†Hong Kong's Court¬†of First Instance to make the payment for using inside information when he traded shares in CITIC Resources Holdings Ltd &lt;1205.HK&gt; in 2007. The case marks the first time in Hong Kong that the¬†Securities and Futures Commission¬†(SFC) has successfully managed to win a court order forcing an individual insider trader to pay investors money they lost out on as a result of trading with him or her. It also contrasts with the approach taken by most other regulators, including the¬†United States¬†and Britain, which tend to levy fines for insider trading that go into government coffers rather than returning money to investors. "The investors had no means to detect they were dealing with Du, who was engaged in illegal insider dealing," the SFC's enforcement head¬†Mark Steward¬†said in a statement. "This case sends a clear message that the consequences of wrongdoing, including the costs of restoration or remediation, should be met by wrongdoers and not be borne by innocent investors or the market," he added. A spokesman for Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong declined to comment on the matter. Du was convicted in 2009 of insider trading and sentenced to seven years in jail. The term was reduced to six years in 2012 following an appeal, though it still marks the longest sentence ever given in Hong Kong for the offence. This case, heard in the civil courts, was only resolved now following the end of criminal proceedings against Du. Du had been part of the Morgan Stanley team advising CITIC Resources on a proposed deal to buy oil field assets in¬†China¬†when he traded in their shares. The HK$23.9 million represents the difference between the price at which the affected investors sold shares in CITIC Resources to Du and the price at which they could have sold the shares had the price sensitive information related to the deal been known by the market at the time. ($1 = 7.7543 Hong Kong dollars) (Reporting by Rachel Armstrong; Additional reporting by Lawrence White in Hong Kong; Editing by Jeremy Laurence)
Flickr/.waldecMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's economic slowdown is mainly being driven by domestic causes, President Vladimir Putin said on Thursday, singling out low labor productivity as a problem. "We have to be clear: The main reasons for the economic slowdown are not external but internal," Putin said in an annual address to lawmakers and officials in the Kremlin. Putin had previously blamed weak global conditions for Russia's economic slowdown. His government has since cut its long-term growth forecast to 2.5 percent through 2030, meaning Russia will lag behind the world economy and other leading emerging economies. (Reporting by Douglas Busvine, Editing by Timothy Heritage)
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets are in the red early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.01%. Germany's DAX is down 0.4%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.1%. This follows a sharp sell-off during Wednesday's U.S. trading session. Later today, we will get the latest weekly tally of U.S. initial unemployment insurance claims and the November report on U.S. retail sales.
