Sell in May and go away? What about "risk off?" And ever more QE? Today's letter is a quick note and a reprise of a popular letter from yesteryear (with a bit of new slant), as I am at my conference in Carlsbad. But first, I thought I would shoot you a few quick, interesting notes that crossed my desk in the last week. It is almost a ritual for me to mention at this time of year the old investment saw, "Sell in May and go away." It has been surprisingly good advice in most years. My good friend Art Cashin is a curator (and prodigious progenitor) of investment wisdom. He offers these two insights from his research: Tomorrow is the beginning of May, so a "Sell in May" review is in order.¬†To avoid reinventing the wheel, let me plagiarize the veteran Jim Brown's synopsis yesterday. Sell in May? We are at that time of year when investors have to decide if they want to take profits and move to cash for the summer or risk losing those profits in the next correction. The Stock Trader's Almanac has made the "Sell in May and go away" trade one of the most visible trends in the market. Because the markets normally decline in the summer, they came up with the best six-month trading system. If you had invested $10,000 in the Dow in 1950 and only kept the money in stocks from November through April, you would have had $684,073 as of the end of 2011. If you reversed the strategy and invested for the May-October period, you would have lost $1,024 over the same 61-year period. That is a pretty telling statistic, and the cycle rarely fails to produce. And Art followed up the next day with: Mark Hulbert suggests it may be a much older multi-national phenomenon. The "sell in May" pattern also exists in other countries besides the US. Ben Jacobsen, a finance professor at Massey University in New Zealand, reached that conclusion after studying all available historical evidence from each of 108 separate stock markets around the world. For example, his statistical tests detected the seasonal pattern in the United Kingdom stock market as far back as 1694. Jacobsen, in an interview, emphasized that the Halloween Indicator isn't merely the product of a shameless, after-the-fact data-mining exercise. He said that he found an article as long ago as 1935 ‚Äì in the Financial Times ‚Äì in which the "sell in May" pattern is referred to as something that was already well-known and followed. Even though the pattern nearly 80 years ago already had a solid historical foundation, Jacobsen notes, since then the difference between the average returns in winter and summer has become even bigger. This is a crucial point, he argues, since the all-too-usual tendency is for patterns to begin to evaporate once investors become aware of them and try to exploit them." China's PMI came in this week at barely above 50 and has been clearly falling for the last year. Despite what you read, China's economic growth is slowing, which is NOT good for commodity metals and products (different from the "softs" like grains, cattle, etc.). GaveKal argues that the commodity price fall that we have been seeing of late is possibly structural in nature. Yet the bond market rises, gold is rising, stocks are rising. (Clearly, the market did not listen to my friend Nouriel Roubini this morning ‚Äì Dr. Doom indeed! After his speech, no one at this conference can call me pessimistic. Although he prefers the term realistic.) Seemingly everything is levitating. "Where is risk off?" I ask aloud back in the green room as I write this. Paul McCulley quips to me, "Never get in a ‚Ä¶‚Ä¶ contest with a man who buys ink by the barrel." The clear implication is that this levitation is all central bank-induced. The Fed, Japan, and the ECB are all in full gear, and England is only waiting for Mark Carney to arrive from Canada with the North American printing technology employed so well by his friend Ben Bernanke. The question I am asking at the conference is, "What will happen when quantitative easing has to end? What does that look like?" I will report next week on what I am learning here, but right now let's return to what has proven to be the most popular piece I have written over the last 13 years. And as you read it, think not just of sand piles but of the analogous pile of electrons of quantitative easing as it mounts up toward criticality. Friedrich Nietzsche knew just how the troubling unknown grips our imaginations and compels us to look for answers: "To trace something unknown back to something known is alleviating, soothing, gratifying, and gives moreover a feeling of power.¬† Danger, disquiet, anxiety attend the unknown ‚Äì the first instinct is to eliminate these distressing states.¬† First principle: any explanation is better than none‚Ä¶. The cause-creating drive is thus conditioned and excited by the feeling of fear‚Ä¶."¬† ‚ÄìFriedrich Nietzsche "Any explanation is better than none." And the simpler, it seems in the investment game, the better. "The markets went up because oil went down," we are told. Then the next day the opposite relationship occurs. Then there is another reason for the movement of the markets. But we all intuitively know that things are far more complicated than that. As Nietzsche notes, dealing with the unknown can be disturbing, so we look for the simple explanation. "Ah," we tell ourselves, "I know why that happened." With an explanation firmly in hand, we now feel we know something. And the behavioral psychologists note that this state actually releases chemicals in our brain that make us feel good. We literally become addicted to the simple explanation. The fact that what we "know" (the explanation for the unknowable) is irrelevant or even wrong is not important to the chemical release. And so we look for reasons. That is why some people get so angry when you challenge their beliefs. You are literally taking away the source of their good feeling, like drugs from a junkie or a boyfriend from a teenage girl. Thus we may reason that the NASDAQ bubble happened because of Greenspan. Or was a collective mania. Or was due to any number of things ‚Äì pick your favorite belief. My favorite: just as the proverbial butterfly flapping its wings in the Amazon triggers a storm in Europe, maybe a borrower in Las Vegas triggered the subprime crash. Crazy? Maybe not. Today we will look at what complexity theory tells us about the reasons for earthquakes, disasters, and the movements of markets. Then we'll look at how New Zealand, Fed policy, gold, oil, and an investor in St. Louis can all be tied together in a critical state. Of course, how critical and what state are the questions here. Ubiquity, Complexity Theory, and Sandpiles We are going to start our explorations with excerpts from a very important book by Mark Buchanan, called Ubiquity: Why Catastrophes Happen. I HIGHLY recommend it to those of you who, like me, are trying to understand the complexity of the markets. Not directly about investing, although he touches on it, it is about chaos theory, complexity theory and critical states. It is written in a manner any layman can understand. There are no equations, just easy to grasp, well-written stories and analogies. ¬†As kids, we all had the fun of going to the beach and playing in the sand. Remember taking your plastic buckets and making sand piles? Slowly pouring the sand into an ever bigger pile, until one side of the pile started an avalanche? Imagine, Buchanan says, dropping one grain of sand after another onto a table. A pile soon develops. Eventually, just one grain starts an avalanche. Most of the time it is a small one, but sometimes it builds on itself and it seems like one whole side of the pile slides down to the bottom. Well, in 1987 three physicists, named Per Bak, Chao Tang, and Kurt Weisenfeld began to play the sandpile game in their lab at Brookhaven National Laboratory in New York. Now, actually piling up one grain of sand at a time is a slow process, so they wrote a computer program to do it. Not as much fun, but a whole lot faster. Not that they really cared about sandpiles. They were more interested in what are called nonequilibrium systems. They learned some interesting things. What is the typical size of an avalanche? After a huge number of tests with millions of grains of sand, they found that there is no typical number. "Some involved a single grain; others, ten, a hundred or a thousand. Still others were pile-wide cataclysms involving millions that brought nearly the whole mountain down. At any time, literally anything, it seemed, might be just about to occur." The piles were indeed completely chaotic in their unpredictability. Now, let's read this next paragraph from Buchanan slowly. It is important, as it creates a mental image that may help us understand the organization of the financial markets and the world economy. (emphasis mine) "To find out why [such unpredictability] should show up in their sandpile game, Bak and colleagues next played a trick with their computer.¬† Imagine peering down on the pile from above, and coloring it in according to its steepness.¬† Where it is relatively flat and stable, color it green; where steep and, in avalanche terms, 'ready to go,' color it red.¬† What do you see?¬† They found that at the outset the pile looked mostly green, but that, as the pile grew, the green became infiltrated with ever more red. ¬†With more grains, the scattering of red danger spots grew until a dense skeleton of instability ran through the pile.¬† Here then was a clue to its peculiar behavior: a grain falling on a red spot can, by domino-like action, cause sliding at other nearby red spots.¬† If the red network was sparse, and all trouble spots were well isolated one from the other, then a single grain could have only limited repercussions. But when the red spots come to riddle the pile, the consequences of the next grain become fiendishly unpredictable.¬† It might trigger only a few tumblings, or it might instead set off a cataclysmic chain reaction involving millions.¬† The sandpile seemed to have configured itself into a hypersensitive and peculiarly unstable condition in which the next falling grain could trigger a response of any size whatsoever." The Critical State Something only a math nerd could love? Scientists refer to this as a critical state. The term critical state can mean the point at which water would go to ice or steam, or the moment that critical mass induces a nuclear reaction, etc. It is the point at which something triggers a change in the basic nature or character of the object or group. Thus, (and very casually for all you physicists) we refer to something being in a critical state (or use the term critical mass) when there is the opportunity for significant change. "But to physicists, [the critical state] has always been seen as a kind of theoretical freak and sideshow, a devilishly unstable and unusual condition that arises only under the most exceptional circumstances [in highly controlled experiments]‚Ä¶ In the sandpile game, however, a critical state seemed to arise naturally through the mindless sprinkling of grains." Thus, they asked themselves, could this phenomenon show up elsewhere? In the earth's crust triggering earthquakes, or as wholesale changes in an ecosystem ‚Äì or as a stock market crash? "Could the special organization of the critical state explain why the world at large seems so susceptible to unpredictable upheavals?" Could it help us understand not just earthquakes, but why cartoons in a third rate paper in Denmark could cause world-wide riots? Buchanan concludes in his opening chapter: "There are many subtleties and twists in the story ‚Ä¶ but the basic message, roughly speaking, is simple:¬† The peculiar and exceptionally unstable organization of the critical state does indeed seem to be ubiquitous in our world.¬† Researchers in the past few years have found its mathematical fingerprints in the workings of all the upheavals I've mentioned so far [earthquakes, eco-disasters, market crashes], as well as in the spreading of epidemics, the flaring of traffic jams, the patterns by which instructions trickle down from managers to workers in the office, and in many other things.¬† At the heart of our story, then, lies the discovery that networks of things of all kinds ‚Äì atoms, molecules, species, people, and even ideas ‚Äì have a marked tendency to organize themselves along similar lines.¬† On the basis of this insight, scientists are finally beginning to fathom what lies behind tumultuous events of all sorts, and to see patterns at work where they have never seen them before." Now, let's think about this for a moment. Going back to the sandpile game, you find that as you double the number of grains of sand involved in an avalanche, the probability of an avalanche becomes 2.14 times more likely. We find something similar in earthquakes. In terms of energy, the data indicate that earthquakes become four times less likely each time you double the energy they release. Mathematicians refer to this as a "power law," a special mathematical pattern that stands out in contrast to the overall complexity of the earthquake process. Fingers of Instability So what happens in our game? "‚Ä¶after the pile evolves into a critical state, many grains rest just on the verge of tumbling, and these grains link up into 'fingers of instability' of all possible lengths. While many are short, others slice through the pile from one end to the other. So the chain reaction triggered by a single grain might lead to an avalanche of any size whatsoever, depending on whether that grain fell on a short, intermediate or long finger of instability." Now, we come to a critical point in our discussion of the critical state. Again, read this with the markets in mind (again, emphasis mine): "In this simplified setting of the sandpile, the power law also points to something else: the surprising conclusion that even the greatest of events have no special or exceptional causes.¬† After all, every avalanche large or small starts out the same way, when a single grain falls and makes the pile just slightly too steep at one point.¬† What makes one avalanche much larger than another has nothing to do with its original cause, and nothing to do with some special situation in the pile just before it starts.¬† Rather, it has to do with the perpetually unstable organization of the critical state, which makes it always possible for the next grain to trigger an avalanche of any size." Now, let's couple this idea with a few other concepts. First, Hyman Minsky (who should have been a Nobel laureate) points out that stability leads to instability. The more comfortable we get with a given condition or trend, the longer it will persist and then when the trend fails, the more dramatic the correction. The problem with long term macroeconomic stability is that it tends to produce unstable financial arrangements. If we believe that tomorrow and next year will be the same as last week and last year, we are more willing to add debt or postpone savings in favor of current consumption. Thus, says Minsky, the longer the period of stability, the higher the potential risk for even greater instability when market participants must change their behavior. Relating this to our sandpile, the longer that a critical state builds up in an economy, or in other words, the more "fingers of instability" that are allowed to develop a connection to other fingers of instability, the greater the potential for a serious "avalanche." We Are Managing Uncertainty Or, maybe a series of smaller shocks lessens the long reach of the fingers of instability, giving a paradoxical rise to even more apparent stability. As the late Hunt Taylor wrote: "Let us start with what we know. First, these markets look nothing like anything I've ever encountered before. Their stunning complexity, the staggering number of tradable instruments and their interconnectedness, the light-speed at which information moves, the degree to which the movement of one instrument triggers nonlinear reactions along chains of related derivatives, and the requisite level of mathematics necessary to price them speak to the reality that we are now sailing in uncharted waters‚Ä¶. "I've had 30-plus years of learning experiences in markets, all of which tell me that technology and telecommunications will not do away with human greed and ignorance. I think we will drive the car faster and faster until something bad happens. And I think it will come, like a comet, from that part of the night sky where we least expect it. This is something old. "I think shocks will come, but they will be shallower, shorter. They will be harder to predict, because we are not really managing risk anymore. We are managing uncertainty ‚Äì too many new variables, plus leverage on a scale we have never encountered (something borrowed). And, when the inevitable occurs, the buying opportunities that result will be won by the technologically enabled swift." Another way to think about it is the way Didier Sornette, a French geophysicist, has described financial crashes in his wonderful book Why Stock Markets Crash (the math, though, was far beyond me!).¬† He wrote, "[T]he specific manner by which prices collapsed is not the most important problem: a crash occurs because the market has entered an unstable phase and any small disturbance or process may have triggered the instability. Think of a ruler held up vertically on your finger: this very unstable position will lead eventually to its collapse, as a result of a small (or an absence of adequate) motion of your hand or due to any tiny whiff of air. The collapse is fundamentally due to the unstable position; the instantaneous cause of the collapse is secondary."¬† When things are unstable, it isn't the last grain of sand that causes the pile to collapse or the slight breeze that causes the ruler on your fingertip to fall.¬† Those are the "proximate" causes.¬† They're the closest reasons at hand for the collapse. The real reason, though, is the "remote" cause, the farthest reason.¬† The farthest reason is the underlying instability of the system itself. A fundamentally unstable system is exactly what we saw in the recent credit crisis. Consumers all through the world's largest economies borrowed money for all sorts of things, because times were good. Home prices would always go up and the stock market was back to its old trick of making 15% a year. And borrowing money was relatively cheap. You could get 2% short-term loans on homes, which seemingly rose in value 15% a year, so why not buy now and sell a few years down the road? Greed took over. Those risky loans were sold to investors by the tens and hundreds of billions of dollars, all over the world. And as with all debt sandpiles, the fault lines started to appear. Maybe it was that one loan in Las Vegas that was the critical piece of sand; we don't know, but the avalanche was triggered. You may not remember this, but I was writing about the problems with subprime debt way back in 2005 and 2006. But as the problem actually emerged, respected people like Ben Bernanke (the chairman of the Fed) said that the problem was not all that big and that the fallout would be "contained." (I bet he wishes he could have that statement back!) But it wasn't contained. It caused banks to realize that what they thought was AAA credit was actually a total loss. And as banks looked at what was on their books, they wondered about their fellow banks. How bad were they? Who knew? Since no one did, they stopped lending to each other. Credit simply froze. They stopped taking each other's letters of credit, and that hurt world trade. Because banks were losing money, they stopped lending to smaller businesses. Commercial paper dried up. All those "safe" off-balance-sheet funds that banks created were now folding (what my friend Paul McCulley first labeled as the Shadow Banking System). Everyone sold what they could, not what they wanted to, to cover their debts. It was a true panic. Businesses started laying off people, who in turn stopped spending as much. As I read through this again, I think I have an insight. It is one of the reasons we get "fat tails." In theory, returns on investment should look like a smooth bell curve, with the ends tapering off into nothing. According to the theoretical distribution, events that deviate from the mean by five or more standard deviations ("5-sigma events") are extremely rare, with 10 or more sigma being practically impossible ‚Äì at least in theory. However, under certain circumstances, such events are more common than expected; 15-sigma or even rarer events have happened in the world of investments. Examples of such unlikely events include Long Term Capital in the late '90s and any of a dozen bubbles in history. Because the real-world commonality of high-sigma events is much greater than in theory, the distribution is "fatter" at the extremes ("tails") than a truly normal one. Thus, the build-up of critical states, those fingers of instability, is perpetuated even as, and precisely because, we hedge risks. We try to "stabilize" the risks we see, shoring them up with derivatives, emergency plans, insurance, and all manner of risk-control procedures. And by doing so, the economic system can absorb body blows that would have been severe only a few decades ago. We distribute the risks and the effects of the risk throughout the system. Yet as we reduce the known risks, we sow the seeds for the next 10-sigma event. It is the improbable risks that we do not yet see that will create the next real crisis. It is not that the fingers of instability have been removed from the equation, it is that they are in different places and are not yet visible. A second related concept is from game theory. The Nash equilibrium (named after John Nash, he of The Beautiful Mind) is a kind of optimal strategy for games involving two or more players, whereby the players reach an outcome to mutual advantage. If there is a set of strategies for a game with the property that no player can benefit by changing his strategy while (if) the other players keep their strategies unchanged, then that set of strategies and the corresponding payoffs constitute a Nash equilibrium.¬† A Stable Disequilibrium So we end up in a critical state of what Paul McCulley calls a "stable disequilibrium."¬† We have "players" of this game from all over the world tied inextricably together in a vast dance through investment, debt, derivatives, trade, globalization, international business, and finance. Each player works hard to maximize their own personal outcome and to reduce their exposure to "fingers of instability." But the longer we go on, asserts Minsky, the more likely and violent an "avalanche" is. The more the fingers of instability can build. The more that state of stable disequilibrium can go critical on us. Go back to 1997. Thailand began to experience trouble. The debt explosion in Asia began to unravel. Russia was defaulting on its bonds. (Astounding. Was it less than ten years ago? Now Russian is awash in capital. Who could anticipate such a dramatic turn of events?) Things on the periphery, small fingers of instability, began to impinge on fault lines in the major world economies. Something that had not been seen before happened: the historically sound and logical relationship between 29- and 30-year bonds broke down. Then country after country suddenly and inexplicably saw that relationship in their bonds begin to correlate, an unheard-of event. A diversified pool of debt was suddenly no longer diversified. The fingers of instability reached into Long Term Capital Management and nearly brought the financial world to its knees. If it were not for the fact that we are coming to the closing innings of the Debt Supercycle, we would already be in a robust recovery. But we are not. And sadly, we have a long way to go with this deleveraging process. It will take years. You can't borrow your way out of a debt crisis, whether you are a family or a nation. And, as too many families are finding out today, if you lose your job you can lose your home. People who were once very creditworthy are now filing for bankruptcy and walking away from homes. All those subprime loans going bad put huges numbers of homes back onto the market, which caused prices to fall on all homes, which caused an entire home-construction industry to collapse, which hurt all sorts of ancillary businesses, which caused more people to lose their jobs and give up their homes, and on and on. The connections in the housing part of the sandpile were long and deep. It's all connected. We built a very unstable sand pile and it came crashing down, and now we have to dig out from the problem. And the problem was too much debt. It will take years, as banks write off home loans and commercial real estate and more, and we get down to a more reasonable level of debt as a country and as a world. And, bringing this tale of instability up to date, we find that Ben Bernanke and his central bank colleagues worldwide have taken much of the burden of sovereign debt upon their mighty shoulders. But as they push their Sisyphean, quantitative easing boulders up the ever-steepening sandpile of the global economy, which side of the pile will collapse first? Will it be the European side, already dangerously unstable? Or the Japanese side, where the QE boulder is about to grow into a real whopper? Or could it happen over on the China slope, which is riddled with fiscal and financial crevasses? And lest we be complacent here in the US, we only need Niall Ferguson to remind us, as he did here at the conference this morning, that the US may be in the grip of a profound structural malaise that neither easing nor austerity can relieve. I'll have much more to say about Niall's presentation and those of our other speakers in coming weeks. We were treated to some world-class thinking and synthesizing of views here today, with much more to come tomorrow! And I'll keep on asking everyone who comes to the stage, "But what about Japan?" Our 10th¬†Annual Strategic Investment Conference is definitely shaping up as our best ever. And with intellects like Niall Ferguson, Lacy Hunt, and Nouriel Roubini, as well as premier investment managers that include the entire partner team from GaveKal (Louis and Charles Gave and Anatole Kaletsky), Jeffrey Gundlach, Kyle Bass, and Mohamed El-Erian, how could it not be the best? In his afternoon presentation, Mohamed did a beautiful job of tying together the themes we focused on today ‚Äì and he was introduced by his best friend (and early-morning walking and debating partner), the irrepressible and incorrigible Paul McCulley, who was also our keynote speaker last night. The conference is turning out to be everything that my co-host, Altegris, and I hoped and expected it would be. We are already working hard to get the conference videos ready, in order to send them to the attendees and all Mauldin Circle members over the coming weeks. ¬†In the meantime, here is a great montage from last year's conference for you to enjoy. If you are not yet a Mauldin Circle member, let this clip remind you of the unique benefits offered to those who join my inner circle. ¬† ¬† ¬†Click here¬†to initiate your membership in my exclusive Mauldin Circle Program for accredited investors and investment professionals. My partner Altegris and I have worked hard to enhance the program, which now includes access to webinars, conferences, special events, videos, accredited newsletters, and presentations featuring alternative-investment managers and other thought leaders and influencers. The good news is that this program is completely free. The only restriction is that, because of securities regulations, you have to register and be vetted by one of my trusted partners, which in the United States is Altegris, before you can be added to the subscriber roster. This will be a quite painless process (I promise).¬†I do not like limiting the letter to accredited investors, but those are the rules under which I work. This is not of my choosing, and I have worked in front of and behind the scenes to try to change what I think is a very unfair rule. (See important risk disclosures below. In this regard, I am president and a registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, member FINRA.)¬†Once you register, an Altegris representative will call you and establish access to the videos, presentations, and summaries from the speakers featured at our 2013 Strategic Investment Conference, as soon as they are ready. Tulsa, Brussels, NYC, and Monaco I am off to Tulsa in two weeks to "give away" my daughter Abigail Joy as she gets married on a Sunday. "Dad, do you have a tux?" came the call, as I think she might have noticed I am not wearing ties all that much these days. Actually, I had kind of planned to wear a tie at least one day here at the conference, but all my ties are still in storage, as are my shoes ‚Äì I am down to one pair. I was sitting outside during a break with Niall Ferguson and his wife, Ayaan Hirsi Ali, going over what she and I would cover when I did my Charlie Rose imitation and interviewed her at lunchtime. Mohamed came by and wished me well at the wedding. I paused for a second to think about which wedding he meant, and Niall gave me a hard time about not immediately getting the focus of his congratulations. "Aren't you involved?" he queried, and threw in a few other friendly jibes. I had to note my distraction over interviewing his wife in public (if you do not know the compelling story of Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Google her and then read her books, starting with her first one, Infidel. She is a powerful advocate for Muslim women, at great risk to her own life). While she is utterly charming and so gracious, she is also "formidable" (best said with a French accent), and I was intently focused on what we were going to discuss. But trying to salvage my damaged reputation as a father, I immediately noted that Niall had clearly not gone through this process (though he and Ayaan do have a toddler at home). "The role of Dad," I said, "is to write a lot of checks and smile and show up at the wedding, walk down the aisle, smile, and hand off your precious jewel to some young kid ‚Äì though you do get to dance with your daughter at the reception.‚Äù (And you have to resist the impulse to grab her by the hand and run off, as you remember her bouncing on your knee, running to the door to greet you, and sharing a thousand other treasured father-daughter moments.) Ayaan smiled and agreed. Niall just put on that fierce Scottish grin of his as he thought about his own kids and the costs of future weddings. (And congratulations to Ayaan, as she is now a US citizen. This country needs more people of her caliber to remind us of the "why" of who we are.) The coming week starts another series of road trips ‚Äì a day in Atlanta to attend the Galectin Therapeutics board meeting, followed by Nashville for Altegris, the weekend to Brussels and later the next week to Geneva, back to Dallas for a week, and then to Washington, DC, and New York. It is not just time to hit the send button; as I close this, I also still need to finalize the PowerPoint of my brand-new presentation for tomorrow and host a reception on the lawn ‚Ä¶ and then do a series of meetings and video shots with guests (which will hopefully show up in this space one day soon)! John Mauldin subscribers@mauldineconomics.com
But years of rising house prices have put that dream out of reach of many. A slowing economy appeared to take some of the heat out. Now, alas, the residential property market is soaring again (see chart). A new survey of developers and property firms on May 2nd showed average house prices up more than 5% in April on a year earlier. Taking the long view, rising property values seem defensible. The country is undergoing the largest wave of urbanisation in human history and homes must be built for all of those new city dwellers. The existing housing stock is poor, so people upgrade to modern homes as soon as they can afford them. Local governments earn a lot of money from land sales to developers and investors have few other places to park their money. All that suggests upward pressure on prices is not going away. But even if you accept those long-term arguments, says Alistair Thornton of IHS, a consultancy, the market right now looks increasingly as if it is becoming detached from the fundamentals, as speculators looking for an investment swamp buyers looking for somewhere to live. Many flats sit vacant despite legions of prospective buyers desperately seeking affordable housing. Capital Economics, a research firm, estimates that investment in residential property accounted for 8.8% of China‚Äôs GDP in 2012. The EconomistThe alarm bells are being rung in unexpected quarters. Wang Shi, the charismatic boss of Vanke, China‚Äôs biggest property developer, would seem to have more to gain than most from further price rises, yet he too warns of a looming "disaster." The plunge in prices that would result from a pricking of this bubble, he declared on "60 Minutes", an American television programme, could lead to popular protests on the scale of the recent Arab uprisings. China‚Äôs new leaders are keenly attuned to such concerns and are trying hard to head off the danger. The ruling State Council and the country‚Äôs central bank have issued numerous decrees in recent weeks designed to dampen the market and to crack down on speculation. Among these are larger down-payments and higher mortgage rates for people buying second homes and a reminder to local governments that a 20% capital-gains tax on second-home sales must be enforced. But plenty of central-government edicts are ignored. The capital-gains tax on resales, for example, was only rarely levied in the past. Ren Zhiqiang, boss of Hua Yuan Real Estate Group, another property giant, recently denounced the country‚Äôs policies. The central government‚Äôs message to local officials, he claimed, could be described as: "We hope prices won‚Äôt continue rising; you go and fix them; and if you don‚Äôt fix them, we will punish you." Most local officials do not want to implement such curbs with any rigour. On the contrary, encouraging a property boom keeps much-needed tax revenues flowing and puffs up the local economic growth figures on which their chances of promotion hang. This misalignment of incentives, argues Mr Thornton, explains why "it‚Äôs always a cat-and-mouse game between local and central authorities". Clearing up this mess will be difficult, but not impossible. A good start would be to introduce a property tax, imposed annually, that is based on the market value of a home. That would reduce speculation, discourage owners from holding empty flats and provide a fresh source of funding for cash-strapped local governments. That should reassure officials whose path to the senior ranks of the party is connected to their ability to enrich their districts (and perhaps themselves) along the way. The perverse incentives the party clings to and the absence of policies to discourage speculation often end up crushing the dreams of would-be home owners. The solution probably starts with the central government recognising that local officials have their dreams, too. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Ultimately, Palm Beach hedge fund manager Doug Kass was selected, and as "credentialed" bear he got to ask the first question in front of thousands of onlookers today.†That's probably tough. After Berkshire announced earnings yesterday and blew past analyst earnings by $307 a share, it was probably even more tough. All that said, Kass opened with a valid question, and not one that isn't unheard of when people whisper criticism of Buffett's legendary firm ó they ask if in recent years his acquisitions have become too large.† From The Street, where Kass is a contributor: Kass said, you were "hunting gazelles before, but now you are hunting elephants." He points out that Burlington Northern and Lubrizol have been made at high historical valuations. Richer prices paid will lead to lower returns on acquisitions than in the past, driving slower growth for the company. Does this mean Berkshire is becoming more like a sleepy index than a stock? Buffett recognized the argument and said, basically, that he's willing to pay for true value. "We have paid up for good business. There are companies we should have bought 30 years ago that looked expensive then but have done very well. We have now realized that paying up for an extraordinary business is not a mistake." They are trying to avoid missing good opportunities like the ones they passed on previously. Warren also got the final word of the exchange as the conversation ended. "You haven't convinced me to sell the stock yet, Doug." Now everyone can go play bridge. For more from their interaction, head to The Street&gt;
Harvard professor Niall Ferguson caused a furore today after reports emerged that he had linked John Maynard Keynes' economic philosophy to a lack of concern for future generations ó a result, Ferguson apparently said, of Keynes' own lack of children and homosexuality. Now Ferguson, in an email to Business Insider, apologized for the "stupid" and "insensitive" comments. Ferguson has also sent out the following Tweet, and posted the apology to his personal website. I apologize deeply and unreservedly for stupid and tactless remarks about Keynes that I made on Thursday bit.ly/13cZ6B7 During a recent question-and-answer session at a conference in California, I made comments about John Maynard Keynes that were as stupid as they were insensitive. I had been asked to comment on Keynesís famous observation ìIn the long run we are all dead.î The point I had made in my presentation was that in the long run our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren are alive, and will have to deal with the consequences of our economic actions. But I should not have suggested ñ in an off-the-cuff response that was not part of my presentation ñ that Keynes was indifferent to the long run because he had no children, nor that he had no children because he was gay. This was doubly stupid. First, it is obvious that people who do not have children also care about future generations. Second, I had forgotten that Keynesís wife Lydia miscarried. My disagreements with Keynesís economic philosophy have never had anything to do with his sexual orientation. It is simply false to suggest, as I did, that his approach to economic policy was inspired by any aspect of his personal life. As those who know me and my work are well aware,†I detest all prejudice, sexual or otherwise. My colleagues, students, and friends ñ straight and gay ñ have every right to be disappointed in me, as I am in myself. To them, and to everyone who heard my remarks at the conference or has read them since, I deeply and unreservedly apologize. Niall Ferguson The swiftness and apparent sincerity of the apology has been noted ó Felix Salmon wonders if it could have saved Ferguson's career: It's conceivable that Niall Ferguson managed to rescue his career with this. niallferguson.com/blog/an-unqualÖ
OMAHA, Neb. (AP) ‚Äî Dozens of Utah coal miners are picketing outside the doors of Berkshire Hathaway's annual meeting in downtown Omaha. The protesters are member of United Mine Workers of America who work at Deer Creek mine near Huntington, Utah. The mine is run by Berkshire's MidAmerican Energy. The union's contract expired in January. The company and union are negotiating, but disagree on health care coverage and safety checks. The protesters hope to influence Berkshire CEO Warren Buffett. Bernie Morris of Price, Utah, stood in the rain with others Saturday to hand out flyers with others. The 67-year-old Morris says he's worked for the coal mine for 28 years, but fears he and his wife won't be able to afford the monthly health insurance premium the company wants to charge miners and retirees. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
At the Berkshire Hathaway annual shareholder meeting, billionaire, Warren Buffett-buddy, and Berkshire board member Bill Gates participated in the annual, folksy tossing of the newspapers. From Reuters: Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett (R) watches friend Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates throw a newspaper in a competition just before the Berkshire annual meeting in Omaha May 4, 2013. Buffett and the board of his conglomerate Berkshire Hathaway Inc are "solidly in agreement" on who should be the company's next chief executive, he said at Berkshire's annual shareholder meeting on Saturday. REUTERS/Rick Wilking And here's Warren, also looking incredibly focused post-toss.  REUTERS/Rick Wilking
At his big Q&amp;A during the Berkshire Hathaway annual shareholder meeting, Warren Buffett was asked his take on Bitcoin. Rest easy. He's not invested in it. . @warrenbuffett #BRK2013: Of our $49b, we haven't moved any of it to #BitCoin.
The April employment report came out Friday and is better than expected. The number of new jobs exceeded the median forecast, the previous two months job numbers were revised upward, and the unemployment rate fell to 7.5%. This report is not what one would expect if fiscal austerity were overwhelming the Fed's efforts to shore up the economy. But the report also is not what one would expect if the Fed were unloading both barrels of the gun at the economy. The April employment rate, therefore, reveals both the strength and weakness of the Fed's efforts. On the first point, Mike Konczal and Paul Krugman claimed earlier this week that the contraction of U.S. fiscal policy in 2013 was trumping the Fed's QE3 program and, in so doing, undermining the views of Market Monetarists like Scott Sumner and me. The employment report and its revisions to the previous months throw some cold water on their claim. But this should not surprise anyone, since fiscal austerity has been happening from 2010 and it has yet to stop the steady progression of nominal GDP (NGDP) growth.  This can be seen in the figures below. The first figure shows that the cyclically adjusted (i.e. structural) budget balance as a percent of potential GDP has been shrinking since 2010. This is the budget balance due to policy changes, not from changes to the economy. It shows fiscal tightening over the past three years: Macro and Other Market Musings And what has this fiscal tightening done to aggregate demand (i.e. NGDP) growth since that time? The figure below shows it has done nothing: FRED This broader 3-year experiment of fiscal policy versus money policy is the one Konczal and Krugman should be examining. Instead, they focus on the first quarter of 2013 and miss the forest for the trees. With all that said, the stable employment and AD growth is far from what is needed for the economy to reach escape velocity. Therein lies the shortcoming of QE3 and the other, previous asset purchasing programs of the Fed. They have been enough to stabilize growth, but not enough to shore up a robust recovery. And that is frustrating to watch. This frustration led me to propose earlier this week that the Fed make the size of its monthly asset purchases under QE3 conditional on how fast the economy was reaching the Fed's targets. Ryan Avent came up with a similar proposal. And then the Fed announced later in the week that it was prepared to do something just like this: The Committee is prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes. It is as if Fed officials were reading our blog posts! Okay, maybe not. More realistically, they too see the problems with QE3--it is applying the same pressure to the gas pedal irrespective of how the terrain on the road changes--and want to improve it. Unfortunately, the Fed did not get more specific than this statement so we don't know how or when this will happen. Josh Barro thinks it is unlikely it will ever happen. I hope he is wrong, otherwise we face a long journey to full employment.
3IM10 via FlickrToday's big economic brouhaha comes courtesy of historian Niall Ferguson, who reportedly told a group that John Maynard Keynes' economic philosophies were informed by the fact that he was childless and gay, and thus not concerned about the ramifications of policy on future generations. A lot of people have this idea that Keynes didn't care about the future because of the famous line "In the long run we're all dead," which people take to mean that the only thing that matters is the short term. But the full line is: "In the long run we are all dead. Economists set themselves too easy, too useless a task if, in tempestuous seasons, they can only tell us that when the storm is long past the ocean is flat again." In other words, he's slamming economists for being sanguine about near-term troubles, merely because in the long term, stability and equilibrium will return. It turns out, Keynes thought a lot about the long-term. In fact he was kind of infamous for it, imagining a world in which pretty much all of human needs would be solved and we'd be living a life of leisure. Eddy Elfenbein points to Keynes' famous essay "Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren," in which he discusses this idea. The conclusion sums it up nicely. He envisions a world of needs being met, and encourages people to start preparing for this: I look forward, therefore, in days not so very remote, to the greatest change which has ever occurred in the material environment of life for human beings in the aggregate. But, of course, it will all happen gradually, not as a catastrophe. Indeed, it has already begun. The course of affairs will simply be that there will be ever larger and larger classes and groups of people from whom problems of economic necessity have been practically removed. The critical difference will be realised when this condition has become so general that the nature of one‚Äôs duty to one‚Äôs neighbour is changed. For it will remain reasonable to be economically purposive for others after it has ceased to be reasonable for oneself. The pace at which we can reach our destination of economic bliss will be governed by four things-our power to control population, our determination to avoid wars and civil dissensions, our willingness to entrust to science the direction of those matters which are properly the concern of science, and the rate of accumulation as fixed by the margin between our production and our consumption; of which the last will easily look after itself, given the first three. Meanwhile there will be no harm in making mild preparations for our destiny, in encouraging, and experimenting in, the arts of life as well as the activities of purpose. But, chiefly, do not let us overestimate the importance of the economic problem, or sacrifice to its supposed necessities other matters of greater and more permanent significance. It should be a matter for specialists-like dentistry. If economists could manage to get themselves thought of as humble, competent people, on a level with dentists, that would be splendid! Whether we've achieved Keynes' vision is hotly debatable. But there's no debate that Keynes thought immensely about the long-term future, and wanted the world to be prepared for it.
The big news was the continuing expansion of employment in April, and the decline in the unemployment rate. Average hourly earnings increased, but the workweek decreased. As the manufacturing workweek is a component of the Index of Leading Indicators, this will be reflected in that compilation. April light vehicle sales declined. The ISM manufacturing index was barely positive, the Chicago PMI barely negative. ISM services were positive.  In the rear view window, Q1 productivity and unit labor costs, and the employment cost index all rose. March factory orders and construction spending declined. Pending home sales rose slightly, as did the Case-Shiller home price index. Personal income and spending both rose as the personal savings rate remained flat at a very low level.  Let's start this week's look at the high frequency weekly indicators by looking at transports and consumer spending, which were the two areas with significant changes last week: Transport Railroad transport from the AAR ¬† ¬† ¬† Shipping transport ¬† Rail transport went negative for the third time in a month, even excluding coal, although intermodal shipments improved. This still has to be watched carefully to see if this is the beginning of a slump. ¬†The Harpex index remains slightly off its January 1 low of 352, and the Baltic Dry Index remains above its recent low. Consumer spending ¬† ¬† Gallup's YoY comparisons have been very positive since last December. They got less positive in the early part of April, but have rebounded again. ¬†The ICSC varied between +1.5% and +4.5% YoY in 2012. In the last month or so it has been near or even below the bottom of this range, but rebounded this week. The JR report this week also rebounded the upper part of its typical YoY range for the last year. Employment metrics Initial jobless claims ¬† American Staffing AssociationIndex Initial claims established a new lower bound to their recent range of between 330,000 to 375,000. The spring increase of the last two years has not materialized this year. ¬†The ASA is still running slightly below 2007, but now slightly behind last year as well. In other words, the comparison is continuing to deteriorate on a YoY basis. Daily Treasury Statement tax withholding ¬† These are still good YoY comparisons compared with the last three months. While my best estimate is that collections should be up 15% due to the payroll tax increases that took effect on January 1, that appears not to be accurate, so now that we have enough data from this year I am making comparisons with earlier this year, and those comparisons did improve in April. Housing metrics Housing prices Housing prices bottomed at the end of November 2011 on Housing Tracker, and averaged an increase of +2.0% to +2.5% YoY during 2012. This weeks's YoY increase once again ties the record increase in March this year.  Real estate loans, from the FRB H8 report: ¬† ¬† Loans turned up at the end of 2011 and averaged about 1% gains YoY through most of 2012. ¬†In the last two months the comparisons have softened significantly.  Mortgage applications from the Mortgage Bankers Association: ¬† ¬† After going sideways for 2 years, this year purchase applications have finally risen slightly. ¬†Refinancing applications were very high for most of last year with record low mortgage rates, but have decreased slightly recently. Interest rates and credit spreads ¬† ¬† Interest rates for corporate bonds have generally been falling since being just above 6% two years ago in January 2011, hitting a low of 4.46% in November 2012. ¬†Treasuries have fallen from about 2% in late 2011 to a low of 1.47% in July 2012. Spreads have varied between a high over 3.4% in June 2011 to a low under 2.75% in October 2012. ¬†The ¬†last several months saw a marked increase in rates and credit spreads have widening, followed by a sudden and strong positive reversal in the last several weeks. Money supply M1 ¬† ¬† M2 ¬† ¬† Real M1 made a YoY high of about 20% in January 2012 and has generally been easing off since. ¬†This week's YoY reading increased sharply. ¬†Real M2 also made a YoY high of about 10.5% in January 2012. ¬†Its subsequent low was 4.5% in August 2012. It has increased slightly in the last month or so. Oil prices and usage ¬† ¬† The price of a gallon of gas has declined sharply since the end of February, and is down about 10% YoY. The 4 week average for gas usage remained negative after nine weeks in a row of being positive YoY. Bank lending rates ¬† The TED spread recently increased slightly off its 18 month+ low. ¬†LIBOR remained at its new 52 week low and is close to a 3 year low. JoC ECRI Commodity prices ¬† Although April employment and March income and spending were positive, most of the other monthly data was negative, especially including anything related to manufacturing. Government construction spending also pulled down that number. As always recently, housing remained a bright spot.  The high frequency indicators were more mixed this week. All money indicators, including money supply, corporate bond rates and interest rate spreads, and bank lending rates, were positive. Housing prices and mortgage applications were positive. Jobless claims were extremely positive. Consumer spending, which had been weakening, turned more positive again. Shipping rates were positive. Gas prices hit new multi-month lows.  Negatives again included rail shipments, joined this week by temporary staffing, which continues to deteriorate. Oil prices increased. Commodities tumbled.  Tax withholding remains a question mark. It is negative after my best estimated adjustment, which is obviously off, but relative to the last few months, this past week was very good.  This was a positive week, marked by low gas prices and low initial claims, but temporary staffing and rail weakness are a real concern. So long as the consumer keeps spending, we are keeping our heads above water.  Have a nice weekend.
CBS NewsWarren Buffett, aka The Oracle of Omaha, prides himself on conducting his business the old fashioned way. He reads tons and tons of SEC filings and doesn't even have a computer on his desk. In a world of massive trading desks and high speed everything, this is something to see. So you should. What follows is a guided tour of the office Buffett's been working in for half a decade. Try not to flip out or anything.
AP ImagesProfessor Niall Ferguson.Harvard professor and famous historian†Niall Ferguson reportedly made some bizarre and offensive remarks about economist John Maynard Keynes at an investment conference yesterday. According to financial writer Tom Kostigen, the editor at large of Private Wealth and Financial Advisor magazines, Ferguson made two startling suggestions about Keynes at the Tenth Annual Altegris Conference in Carlsbad, California: Dan Jamieson at Investment News, also reported the remarks. Specifically, Kostigen reported the following: [I]n front of a group of more than 500 investors, Ferguson responded to a question about Keynes' famous philosophy of self-interest versus the economic philosophy of Edmund Burke, who believed there was a social contract among the living, as well as the dead. Ferguson asked the audience how many children Keynes had. He explained that Keynes had none because he was a homosexual and was married to a ballerina, with whom he likely talked of "poetry" rather than procreated. The audience went quiet at the remark. Some attendees later said they found the remarks offensive. ... Ferguson, who is the Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University, and author of†The Great Degeneration: How Institutions Decay and Economies Die,†says it's only logical that Keynes would take this selfish worldview because he was an "effete" member of society. Apparently, in Ferguson's world, if you are gay or childless, you cannot care about future generations nor society. Not surprisingly, Kostigen's report has already drawn considerable attention to, and criticism of, Ferguson.†We have reached out to Professor Ferguson for comment. We will update this article when we hear from him. (UPDATE: Professor Ferguson has responded with a full apology, describing his remarks as "stupid and tactless." His email is below.) In addition to the offensive suggestion that those who don't have children don't care about the future or society, Professor Ferguson's reported remarks are bizarre and insulting to Keynes on two levels. Wikimedia CommonsJohn Maynard Keynes.First, this is the first time we have heard a respectable academic tie another economist's beliefs to his or her personal situation rather than his or her research. Saying that Keynes' economic philosophy was based on him being childless would be like saying that Ferguson's own economic philosophy is based on him being rich and famous and therefore not caring about the plight of poor unemployed people. Second, Keynes' policies did not suggest that he did not care about future generations. On the contrary. ... For the sake of both future generations and current generations, Keynes believed that governments should run deficits during recessions and then run surpluses during economic booms. Politicians have never seemed to be able to follow the second part of Keynes' proscription ó they tend to run deficits at all times ó but it seems unfair to blame this latter failing on Keynes. Ferguson is not the first person to suggest that Keynes did not care about the future, and this sentiment is normally tied to one of Keynes' most famous sayings: "... In the long run, we are all dead." Importantly, however, in saying this, Keynes was in no way suggesting that the future doesn't matter. Rather, when this remark is read in context, it is clear that Keynes†was chiding economists for ducking responsibility for their own lousy short-term predictions: In the long run we are all dead. Economists set themselves too easy, too useless a task if, in tempestuous seasons, they can only tell us that when the storm is long past the ocean is flat again. So if Ferguson is basing his assertion that Keynes didn't care about the future on this line, his remark is even more unfair. For those who are new to the larger economic debate that is the backdrop to these remarks, here's a snapshot: Professor Ferguson and other economists have been loudly and consistently warning for years that the deficit spending and debts of most developed countries will eventually end in disaster. Professor Ferguson and other "austerians" suggest that governments should immediately cut spending and balance their budgets, even if this results in a brutal short-term recession and exploding unemployment. This "austerian" philosophy has been countered by the "Keynesian" philosophy advocated by Paul Krugman and others in which governments enact stimulus and run big deficits during weak economic periods to offset weak private-sector spending and help shore up employment, consumer spending, and social well-being until the private sector recovers. High debts and deficits are a long-term concern that needs to be addressed, Krugman says, but they do not constitute a near-term crisis that requires immense, self-inflicted, short-term pain to alleviate. In the past five years, the experience of many countries suggests that Krugman's philosophy is correct, and, as yet, none of the doom predicted by Ferguson and other austerians has come to pass. Meanwhile, countries like the U.K. and Greece, which have cut spending to try to balance their budgets, have been mired in multiple recessions (or, in the case of Greece, a depression). And, notably, because lower economic output leads to less tax revenue, these countries have not made much progress in balancing their budgets. Ferguson's reported remarks would represent a new low in the war of words between these economic camps, and they could be very damaging to his reputation. As yet, the remarks have not been confirmed, and we eagerly await Professor Ferguson's response. *UPDATE: Professor Ferguson has responded to our questions with a full apology. In a tweet (and below), he describes his remarks about Keynes as "stupid and tactless." His email is below. During a recent question-and-answer session at a conference in California, I made comments about John Maynard Keynes that were as stupid as they were insensitive. I had been asked to comment on Keynesís famous observation ìIn the long run we are all dead.î The point I had made in my presentation was that in the long run our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren are alive, and will have to deal with the consequences of our economic actions. But I should not have suggested ñ in an off-the-cuff response that was not part of my presentation ñ that Keynes was indifferent to the long run because he had no children, nor that he had no children because he was gay. This was doubly stupid. First, it is obvious that people who do not have children also care about future generations. Second, I had forgotten that Keynesís wife Lydia miscarried. My disagreements with Keynesís economic philosophy have never had anything to do with his sexual orientation. It is simply false to suggest, as I did, that his approach to economic policy was inspired by any aspect of his personal life. As those who know me and my work are well aware,†I detest all prejudice, sexual or otherwise. My colleagues, students, and friends ñ straight and gay ñ have every right to be disappointed in me, as I am in myself. To them, and to everyone who heard my remarks at the conference or has read them since, I deeply and unreservedly apologize. Niall Ferguson SEE ALSO: The Economic Argument Is Over ó Paul Krugman Has Won
There are sure are a lot of people who think natural gas prices are going to continue to go up. According to Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) data from Citi's Timothy Evans, the number of net long positions for nat gas contracts now stands at 530,786.¬† That's a record high. Here's the chart: Citi Natural gas prices were trading up +0.6% Friday to hit $4.05. That comes after prices fell about 7 percent earlier in the week. ¬† Evans writes that the¬†market is "heavily overbought and vulnerable to bearish news."¬†
Part I: Niall Ferguson - The Great Degeneration Part II:¬† Jeff Gundlach - Why Own Bonds At All Six Fundamental Realities Private Sector Deleveraging And Government Policy Responses Household deleveraging is far from over. There is most likely at least 5 more years to go. However, it could be longer given the magnitude of the debt bubble. The offset of the household deleveraging has been the leveraging up of the Federal government. The flip side of household leverage is the personal saving rates. The decline in the savings rate from the 1980‚Äôs to 2000 was a major boost to economic growth. That has now changed as savings rate are now slowly increasing and acting as a drag on growth. However, American‚Äôs are not saving voluntarily. American‚Äôs have been trained to spend as long as credit is readily available. However, credit is no longer available. Furthermore, there is an implicit mistrust of stocks which is a huge change from the 90‚Äôs when stocks were believed to be a source of wealth creation limiting the need to save. ¬†¬†¬† My forecast for GDP growth going forward is that it will remain mired around 2%. The response to the stalled economic environment and deleveraging cycle has been massive government interventions.¬† The Fed‚Äôs original program of zero interest rates have failed to promote borrowing. The next step was unprecedented Quantitative Easing. The Fed‚Äôs dual mandate is full employment, currently targeted at 6.5%, and price stability (inflation) around 2%.¬† The Fed has been very clear that the current QE programs are directly tied to these targets. However, monetary policy is a very blunt instrument, but the Fed believes that it will work within a 5 step process. The problem is that there is little evidence that Q.E. programs are fulfilling their intended role. History is not a controlled experiment. There is no way to tell what would have really happened had the Fed not intervened after the financial crisis. However, what we can absolutely measure, is the impact of the Fed‚Äôs activities on the economy. If we measure the increase in real GDP for each dollar of increase in debt we find that it has been close to nil. From 2001 through the end of Q2-2012 ‚Äì we find that there has been only a 0.08% increase in real GDP per dollar of increase in debt.¬†¬† While the economy has failed to ignite - there has been a sharp surge in market capitalization as a percentage of nominal GDP.¬†¬† Currently at levels well above the long term average it is unlikely that this is the beginning of the next great secular bull market. The bottom line is that despite trillions of dollars of Federal Reserve interventions there has been very little impact on the real economy. This is because there has been very little follow on effect from the massive increases in excess reserves.¬†¬† Historically required reserves have remained fairly close to the level of excess reserves. However, today, excess reserves are running roughly $1.7 trillion above the level of required reserves. Liquidity remains trapped which is why there is no velocity of money in the economy. Growing Protectionism The problem today is that everybody wants to increase exports to boost their respective economies - but no one wants to, or is able to, buy. This has pushed countries into the need to take more drastic actions to stabilize and boost their economies.¬†¬† This has led to currency devaluation schemes. Japan is the poster child to currency devaluation.¬†¬† They have gone ‚Äúall in‚Äù to debase their currency in hopes that they will create some inflation. For Japan it is ‚Äúgo big or go home.‚Äù It is important to note that NO ONE ever initiates currency devaluation ‚Äì they are just trying to get back to even.¬†¬† Currently, the head of the central bank in Japan, has the backing of the country. This will allow him to operate and continue his stimulative actions. The tipping point will be when he loses this approval. However, while Japan is currently happy with their direction, other countries are not. Eventually there will be a reprisal. The Great Disconnect ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt worry about a thing as long as the Fed is inflating assets and the economy is in the tank.‚Äù Nobody wants to end the current Q.E. programs.¬† What it will take is an economic shock of some magnitude. What type of shock it will be, and when it will occur, are the only questions? Here is the simple truth: Stocks will eventually revert to the fundamentals of the economy. Such a reversion will devastate most investors that are unhedged for that eventuality. Zeal For Yield The chase for yield has reached excessive levels. Despite the rising risks individuals continue to ignore the fundamentals and reach for ever increasing levels of yield. Junk bonds, emerging market debt and bank loans are at record low levels in yield. The yield on stocks and bonds are equal for the first time decades. This is an indication of a late stage bull market. It is also one that has historically ended badly for investors. End of Export Driven Growth In Developing Countries. The demand for exports is slowing as the major developed countries are weak and demand slackens. (Note: This was seen in the latest trade deficit report as imports for the U.S. plunged sharply last month. In other words the demand for products from other exporters is slowing which negatively impacts their economies.) As Jeff Gundlach discussed earlier ‚Äì China‚Äôs growth rate is slowing. However, no run really trusts the data coming out of China. It takes China 18 days from the end of the quarter to report GDP. It takes the U.S. 28 days.¬†¬† China never revises their data subsequent to that first report while the U.S. revises its data two more times over a 90 day period. The data is extremely unreliable. For instance, how do you have a flat manufacturing report coming out of China, as measured by Markit PMI, when they supposedly have a 7.7% GDP growth? That simply does not add up. Going forward emerging economies are focused on creating internal growth to offset the drag from slowing export growth. This will likely lead to problems. Equities Are Vulnerable We are still within a secular BEAR market that begin in 2000 with P/E ratios still contained within a declining trend. Despite media commentary to the contrary - this time is likely not different. In order for valuations just to return to the long term average they would have to decline by 27.5% from current levels. However, the reality is that valuation reversions always exceed the long term mean. Furthermore, corporate profits have only soared due to declining labor costs and increased productivity. The problem now is that there is an inability to slash costs and increase productivity at levels that can offset the decline in operating earnings and revenue. This makes equities susceptible to a large reversion at some point in the future. 2013 Investment Themes  ‚ÄúEconomists are like lookouts at the house of ill-repute.¬†¬† They are kept away from the action but good to have when the cops arrive.‚Äù The risk on trade is alive and well - but will not last forever. Therefore, the following is what I find attractive and unattractive in the current environment. Attractive. Unattractive Q&amp;A Austerity Or Stimulus ‚Äì What Should We Be Doing? If you don‚Äôt get austerity when things are tough you will never get it.¬†¬† This is the problem in Germany. In the U.S. ‚Äì Congress has it completely backwards.¬†¬† They should be working on structural deficits rather than fiscal deficits. Change retirement ages, etc. rather than trying to inflate assets. GDP less inventories is much weaker.¬†¬† Inventories are a residual of activity and small changes on either end have a big impact on the economic figure.¬†¬† What Happens? The great disconnect will reconnect over the next couple of years which will negatively impact long only investors. The Fed Reserve ‚Äì Does The Fed Have To Exit? That is an interesting point. With slow growth, which will continue due to the ongoing deleveraging cycle for another 5 years, it is likely that the Fed will not try and exit.¬†¬† However, when the economy begins to reach higher levels of growth in the future the excess reserves will begin to flow into the system.¬†¬† If they Fed doesn‚Äôt exit from their policies when that occurs the impact of inflation could be severe.
