Screenshot Colum Murphy/WSJChina has passed many reforms aimed at easing capital controls. But these are being rolled out slowly. A meager deposit interest rate has forced people to turn to wealth management products and other risky investments.¬† And the recent credit crunch forced many into the unregulated shadow banking system. In a new report, GMO's Edward Chancellor and Mike Monnelly warn of "acute fragility" in China's financial system, and write, "the public appearance is of a banking system with negligible levels of bad debts, ample liquidity, and low leverage. The reality, on closer inspection, looks rather different".
WEFSocGen's Michala Marcusen has a great paragraph on Davos in her latest weekly note. A more confident mood marked this year‚Äôs Davos meetings, but new concerns relating to unconventional monetary policies and currencies are emerging. French Minister of Finance Moscovici told a panel that the ‚Äúeuro is high and this creates some problems‚Äù and several eyebrows were raised at Japan‚Äôs new economic policy. Deputy Governor of the PBoC, Yi Gang, indicated that the yuan was close to equilibrium and warned that G20 leaders should seek better communication and coordination on FX. In a move that will heighten expectations for future BoE easing, the new BoE Governor coming to office in July, Mark Carney, noted that monetary policy was far from ‚Äúmaxed out‚Äù and more should be done. This week will see the FOMC continue QE while the ECB is likely to see further balance sheet shrinkage. While many factors influence currencies, the apparent monetary policy dichotomy will keep the debate open as to whether the euro is about to take the past position of the yen. The World Economic Forum in Davos is filled with a lot of Davos-speak, and discussions about stuff that doesn't matter much to markets. But the monetary policy stuff is significant right now for a couple of reasons. First of all, Both Japan (due to Abe's aggressive policy) and the UK (due to incoming BoE chief Mark Carney) are potentially about to embark on new avenues of policy. But more generally, there's a belief that at least in the US that the end of the age of easing is coming into view. So the monetary policy concerns that were voiced at Davos (and this question of who's maxed out, and who needs to start reeling it in) actually matter. SEE ALSO: The entire world of economics is watching the UK right now &gt;
Something we've written a lot about around these parts it the "New HQ curse." Right around the time a company unveils a gleaming new HQ, the company then turns and does a swan dive. The headquarters of PIMCO (home of the world's largest bond fund) is probably the closest thing the bond market has to its own HQ, and now according to Bill McBride, the firm's new gleaming building is just about done. And of course it just so happens at a time when money is rushing into equities, and people are talking seriously about a "Great Rotation" out of bonds and into stocks. McBride himself asks: "Does completion of the PIMCO building mark the top for bond prices?"  Calculated Risk
An anonymous commodities trader at Glencore did a Reddit Ask Me Anything where he answered a bunch of questions about what it's like to work at a big commodities trading shop (via Izabella Kaminska). It's impossible to verify for sure that he is what he says he is, but if you read the whole thing, which you should, it reads very professional and sophisticated. Among the things he posted: A very useful/cool map of the commodities that are held and dominated by the world's emerging markets. It's not real secret, proprietary stuff, but it's enjoyable to look at and ponder. Reddit
Republican House Budget Chair Paul Ryan has predicted a grim outcome for the next fiscal cliff battle.† "We think these sequesters will happen because the Democrats have opposed our efforts to replace those cuts with others," Ryan said during an interview with David Gregory on Meet The Press Sunday. "We passed legislation, I voted and passed it in the House, twice to replace those sequesters with cuts in other areas of government. So we've shown precisely how we should protect defense spending by cutting spending in other areas." "But we think these sequesters will happen because the Democrats have opposed our efforts to replace those cuts with others and they've offered no alternatives," he added.† Watch the full interview below, courtesy of MSNBC:†  Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
World Economic Forum, Flickr We've been saying for a while that the age of crisis was coming to an end. And now the world's elites have made it official. The economic crisis is over. From Peter Coy and BusinessWeek: The hive mind of Davos has concluded that the financial crisis is done, finished. The new worry: a bubble in the credit markets. There is no official declaration, or even a formal survey. But the chatter at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, is about the end of the financial crisis that began in 2008 and dragged on through last summerís spike in Spanish and Italian government bond yields. ìThereís a crystallization of thought that the financial crisis is over,î says Scott Minerd, managing partner and chief investment officer of Guggenheim Partners, a Santa Monica (Calif.) firm with about $160 billion under management. And here's Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia Group writing at The Huffington Post: So why has Davos decided to look on the bright side? I'd sum it up as follows: There's a sense that the world economy has turned the corner, and after four years, the financial crisis is finally behind us. Not only are people much more attuned to the new environment of risks, but also, there is a sense that the downsides are nearing their limits. Sure, the eurozone is suffering through record unemployment and a bleak economic environment--but defaults or a eurozone breakup didn't pan out. A double-dip recession in the U.S. never materialized. The threats are still disparate and uncertain, of course, but it feels like the cataclysmic possibilities are off the table for the time being. The mood at Davos echoes what we're hearing from non-Alpine pundits, like Mohamed El-Erian and others, who have been talking about how the 'New Normal' might be coming to an end. Even earlier, economists like Jan Hatzius at Goldman had been calling for 2013 to represent a big global economic turning point. Great news. (Except if you're in the news business!)
Google News ArchivesDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus sends along the top stories that traders are reading this weekend. We summarize in bullets.
Wikimedia CommonsHeads up. This is going to be a huge week for the global economy. There's been a lot of talk about recovery, bullishness, and the end of the crisis. Now it's time to see where the data is. Via Yahoo Finance, here are some of the big datapoints that will be coming up this week. Monday: Durable Goods Orders, analysts expect 1.6% growth. Tuesday:¬† Case-Shiller Home Price Index, analyst expect a 5.2% growth. Consumer Confidence. Wednesday: ADP Jobs Report, GDP advance reading. Thursday: Challenger Job Cuts, Initial Jobless Claims, Personal Income and Spending, Chicago PMI FRIDAY: This is the big day. Starting in Asia its PMI day, when countries all around the world reveal the health of their manufacturing activity. That starts with China and Korea, and then goes through Asia, ending up in the US Friday morning. This will give us a great read on how things have gone in January for the entire globe. In addition to PMI day that day, we'll get Non-Farm Payrolls (analysts expect 180K), the unemployment rate (expected to stay flat at 7.7%), Construction Spending and Car and Truck Sales. We'll be covering it all LIVE.
Twitter.com/NourielNoted economist Nouriel Roubini was the No. 1 Tweeter on the "Leader Board" at the World Economic Forum in Davos for quite some time.† Roubini was Tweeting up a storm at the high profile event that features top economists and world leaders this past week. He's also Tweeted out tons of photos of the people, the speakers and the beautiful Swiss Alp scenery. We've included this photos in the slides that follow to give you a taste of what Davos is really like according to Roubini. †
This mass media headline should make any institutional investor cringe - as contrarian flags begin to go up. Source: USA Today (via the ISI Group) 
Nothing too crazy has happened in the world of high frequency ¬†and algorithmic trading in a while, but that doesn't mean everyone on Wall Street has stopped worried about their discontents. Perhaps that's why CAST, a software analysis company that services many financial firms, sent us these cartoons as a funny (but gentle) reminder of the problems electronic trading still has to tackle. Check them out below: ¬† CAST Software
REUTERS/Vasily FedosenkoThe hunt is on.An anonymous commenter named ìFrankî wrote on an article I wrote, ìEvery time Altucher opens his mouth or posts commentary, he subtracts from the sum total of all human knowledge.î Frank is absolutely right and I congratulate him for recognizing that. I do subtract from the sum total of all human knowledge when I speak. Iím not human. I hunt humans down. I then eat what I kill. Frank is afraid maybe that Iím trying to take too much of the knowledge he spent 40 or 70 years learning. Itís ok, Frank. You can keep your knowledge. I wonít take it from you. You can go home now. Weíve become animals in a zoo and wait for our masters to feed us. Our masters are our bosses, the government, the shareholders of massive corporations, the media that spoon feeds us random doses of fear and greed. The banks that squeeze our genitals when we try to break free. Life only tastes good when you eat what you kill. When you hustle for what you earn and someone pays you money in proportion to the service youíve offered, the idea youíve created, your ability to execute on it, and their ability to consume it in a way that benefits them. Someone asked me the other day ìwhat does it mean when you say you ëeat what you killí ì. It means the greatest pleasure is going into the jungle and mastering the ability to hunt and survive without the help of masters who only pretend to guarantee our safety. Whether youíre an entrepreneur, an employee, a student, a homemaker, a writer, itís time to start forgetting about all the ways the world has promised you safety and comfort. Human knowledge has torn apart our families, our bank accounts, and lulled us into a creepy sense of Disney stability. A good friend of mine was just laid off from his job of ten years. He found out through an email and was asked to not come into work for the rest of the week and clean out his desk when security came in on Saturday. All of that human knowledge in an email. Ten years of work. Time to cut costs.†ìWhat do I do now?î†he asked me. How to Eat What You Kill: -†Donít depend on one boss, buyer for your company, product, service you offer, etc. Diversify everything you can. When I was starting Stockpickr I was trying to start 9 other companies simultaneously plus was running a fund of hedge funds. When I was trying to sell Stockpickr, I was in serious talks with 5 other companies. When I write articles, thereís 5 different sites I write for.†When I was broke and about to lose my home,†I wrote to over 100 different people to try to build up my network. When I worked at HBO I tried to build value in every department, all the time I was preparing my exit by planning out my first successful startup. -†Become an expert.†Read every book, blog, website, whatever, about what you want to be an expert in. When I began daytrading for hedge funds I must have read over 100 books on trading and investing and then wrote over 1000 programs testing out different trading models. And I still sucked at trading. I then spent years doing it before I felt I was halfway decent enough to pull consistent money out. And only then hedge funds started hiring me. - †Connect people.†If you introduce person A to person B and then person B is able to solve a pain point in his life, then you just made a good connection. Each connection is another string in the tightly woven net you build that will catch you when you fall and throw you to higher heights than youíve ever experienced before. And you will fall. Donít think it canít happen. -†Give ideas for free.†If you have no network yet then you have to build it. Nobody wants to help you for free. They are all just trying to survive. Even billionaires are trying to protect their luxury-soaked lifestyles plagued by jealousies and oversexed libidos. You have to build your idea muscle and work hard to come up with ideas that can really help these people. Then send them the ideas for free. Not everyone will respond, but the benefits are: -†Always work on your exit.†No matter where you are: a job, a startup, your startup, writing a column, working at Mcdonalds, always diversify your possible exits and begin immediately working on them. You donít have to exit tomorrow, but never forget that you can get that email tomorrow that says you have to clean out your desk by Saturday. Build your personal brand,†make your bossís contacts your contacts, make calls, send emails, leave responses on blogs, come up with ideas out of the scope of your job description -†Never say a bad word about anyone.†Donít betray anyone. Donít backstab anyone or step on anyoneís toes. Donít gossip.This might come into conflict with the idea of ìeating what you killî but backstabbing in order to do it implies you have a ìscarcityî mentality. That there isnít enough out there unless you kill someone else in order to get what you want. Let me tell you something: thereís enough out there for you and me. Your competition is not other people but the time you kill, the ill will you create, the knowledge you neglect to learn, the connections you fail to build, the health you sacrifice along the path, your inability to generate ideas, the people around you who donít support and love your efforts, and whatever god you curse for your bad luck. Avoid those and you avoid competition. Donít hurt anyone. -†Donít care what people think.††People will hate you for being a hunter: your bosses, colleagues, partners, investors, extended family. But they donít have to feed your family. You do. This is how you do it. Once you care what others think, youíve lost. Then youíve just set up the same boundaries for yourself that those other people have set up for themselves. They are all smaller than you and live in straitjackets. Itís easy to kill someone in a straitjacket. Donít be one of those people. - †Create your luck.†Luck doesnít come from god or come magically out of the air. When a runner wins a race by a one-tenth of a second chances are he prepared more, he studied his competition, his diet was that much better, he was better rested, he was mentally fit, etc. Once youíve checked all the boxes on your preparation, guess what,†youíll be lucky. A lot of people say, for instance, that Mark Cuban became a billionaire by luck. I address†that in this post. - †Reward is unrelated to risk.†People say, ìno risk, no reward.î This is not true. I donít like to take risks. I have a family to feed. Donít take risks with your kids. Diversification is not about diversifying your cash investments, itís about diversifying all the sources of plenty in your life: opportunities, knowledge, friends, networks, investments, risks, health (physical, emotional, mental, spiritual, i.e.†the Daily Practice I recommend). To eat what you kill, minimize risk so you donít die on the hunt. You do that by diversifying every part of your life. The outcome of this is that if you forgot to bring your knife on the hunt, you still have your gun. If you forgot to bring your ideas full force into the game, you still have your network, if you lose on one risk, you still have the nine others. Thatís where you get the reward. - †Take responsibility for all failures.†Itís your fault†when you go hungry. Former world chess champion Mikhail Botvinnik said in his book, ì100 selected gamesî that the only way to reach the highest level of success is to develop the ability to critique your own failures. Note the word, ìONLYî in this. Anecdote: Botvinnik used to train by playing against someone who would blow smoke in his face so as to get accustomed to difficult playing situations. He was the world chess champion for 15 years. (Botvinnik versus future world champion Bobby Fischer in 1962) - †Honesty.†If you donít ask for what you want, chances are you wonít get it.†If you donít say what you believe, youíll never stand out from the 99% of people out there who hide the truth about themselves and their desires. If you donít stand up and say or show how special you are, nobody will ever think you are special. Nobody is out there advocating for you. Honesty about what you feel, believe, know, think, want, will make you a multi-dimensional being in a flatland world. - Patience.†Most important. A three year old could be honest but it doesnít mean anything. They still shit in their pants on occasion. You need to grow up. To check all of the boxes on the above items. To do†the Daily Practice†to stay in mental, physical, emotional, spiritual shape. Toavoid crappy people, to be honest, to take responsibility, and so on. Being a hunter is very discouraging. Sometimes you have to go for stretches of disappointment where thereís nothing to kill and then nothing to eat. To be honest, Iím on a four year stretch. Iím hunting for my next kill and I will get it. During those times its most difficult to keep balanced and stay sane. Iíve talked many people off ledges during these periods, including myself.†Itís these times itís most important to only be around the people who love you, and avoid the damaging people who will bring you to their peculiar and particular circles of hell. You donít want to go to hell. At the end of the day, patience is the virtue that takes you to heaven. Donít worry about adding or subtracting to the sum of human knowledge. Human knowledge is never that great. Be better than human.
Britain's worst investment and pension funds are named and shamed today in a "Spot the Dog" report published by financial advisers BestInvest. It identifies 153 funds with £23bn under management, that have underperformed the market in each of the last three years, yet they have charged investors around £1bn in fees. The worst offenders are those that invest in North American shares, but many emerging market and ethical funds have also performed poorly. Dubbed "The guide that fund managers would love to ban", BestInvest names Scottish Widows, BlackRock, Baillie Gifford, F&amp;C Investments and Jupiter as the big investment management houses that are failing to deliver. At the other end of scale, not a single fund from JPMorgan Asset Management, M&amp;G, AXA Investment Management and BNY Mellon/Newton found their way onto the Dog list, despite each having a large number of funds. Many of the worst funds returned 30% less than the average over three years. For example, the Standard Life UK Opportunities, named as the worst pension fund, gave investors a return of just 2% over three years, compared to the average 32% gain in the sector. But at least the fund hasn't actually lost money. The award for consistently bad performance, where investors have lost a large part of their capital, went to a fund investing in China, Brazil and Russia. The Hexam Global Emerging Markets has lost its investors nearly 10% over the past year and 13% over three years. Jupiter's £200m China fund is also in the doghouse, after losing money over three years. Despite China's industrial might, the country has been a graveyard for investor expectations. Over the past five years, the Shanghai stock market index has fallen from 4,500 to 2,300. Jason Hollands of BestInvest says: "Sadly, the funds listed in Spot the Dog represent the tip of the iceberg of poor performance because the criteria we have set are designed to focus on the very 'worst of the worst'. In our view, financial product providers too easily get away with dismal or uninspiring performance, benefitting from a combination of investor inertia and advisers failing to provide a satisfactory level of monitoring on investments they have previously recommended." Scottish Widows is named as the investment management group with the worst record. "It was top dog in our last report and has been a regular offender over many years," says Hollands. A spokesperson for Scottish Widows said: "In April we began the process of repositioning our £54bn equities business. We are completing the process of transitioning a number of equities funds, including those named in the survey Ö We remain committed to active equities management and will compete in those markets where we have confidence that we can generate strong performance." So should investors who hold "dog" funds sell out and buy something else? BestInvest says that management groups may be taking action to turn around the fortunes of a fund, but adds: "You should certainly explore further whether or not to stick with a fund if it appears in the guide. Neither should you assume that a fund is in the clear just because it isn't in Spot the Dog. For every howler, there are many more pedestrian funds that have narrowly escaped and may be worth switching to better managers." A full copy of the report is available at bestinvest.co.uk/dogs Guardian Investing offers no-obligation advice on how to realise your financial goals  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
The Federal Reserve makes a ton of money on its $3T horde of government bonds. In 2012 the Fed earned a tidy $90B by borrowing short and lending long. That income number is the difference between interest income and expense. The P/L does not reflect the fact that the Fed as a huge unrealized gain in its portfolio (The Fed takes capital gains and losses only when securities are sold). According to a recent Fed report, the Fed is sitting on unrealized gains that are in the neighborhood of $200B. This chart shows how big the Fedís contributions to Treasury have been over the past few years. The Fedís net income has cut 10% off of the annual deficit.  † The question that hangs in the air is what happens if interest rates were allowed to ìnormalizeî. Fortunately, there is an answer to this question. The source of this information is interesting, it comes from the Federal Reserve.  † This is a technical report and covers many ìwhat ifsî. One critical variable is what will the Fed do in 2013. That has been answered, the Fed has done QE#4 and will grow its balance sheet at the rate of $85B per month. This result is reflected in the red-dotted lines in the following charts. First a look at the interest rate assumptions that drive the results at the Fed:  †  † On the assumption that those rates will be the reality,† this is what would happen to the Fedís income statement:  † Note that in all cases, the years of $80b Fed gains are over. Note also that if interest rates do rise, the annual return to Treasury quickly falls to zero, and actually goes negative (loss). The Fedís balance sheet would get crushed (on a mark-to-market basis). The $200B of unrealized gains would fall to an unrealized loss of $300B. A half-trillion dollar swing in just a few years. †  † Letís say it plays out like this. What does it mean if the Fed has annual losses, and a big hole in its assets? The answer is, ìNot muchî. - The annual remittances to Treasury would fall to zero, That would, by itself, add to the deficit. The magnitude of the change (-$80b) would not be that big an issue. -If the Fed takes an annual loss, an accounting ìassetî is immediately created equal to the loss. The asset would be in the form of a future claim on remittances to Treasury. This is an accounting gimmick. If the Fed had a $50B loss in year #1, a $50B Deferred Asset is created. If in year #2 the Fed has a$50B profit, the money is first used to reduce the Deferred Asset. If you believe that the Fed will earn a profit over time to offset current losses, then the Fed can never be consider insolvent. This is the Fedís explanation of the magical accounting: The deferred asset is subsequently realized as a reduction of future remittances to the Treasury. Thus, it is an asset in the sense that it embodies a future economic benefit that will be realized as a reduction of future cash outflows.  The Fed goes on to defend this (flaky) logic with: This accounting treatment is consistent with U.S. GAAP and is similar to the way that private companies report deferred loss carry forwards as an asset. Well, that is ìsort ofî correct. This situation can arise with a private sector company. Tax loss carry forwards are an asset. But they are an asset that analysts look askance at -† for obvious reasons. The Fed is not just the Central Bank. It is a regulator for the nationís biggest banks. If one of those banks tried to use a $100B tax loss carry forward as an asset, the Fed would put the screws to them. For example: -The Basel II capital requirements specifically exclude Deferred Taxes as a qualified asset. (So how can the Fed treat it as equity?) -The Fed has restricted Citi from stock buy-backs and dividends because the bank has $50B in Deferred Tax assets on its books. (Good for the goose, but not the gander?Ö) Note: This is an odd report to be coming from the Fed. What to make of it? I put it on the growing list of ìthingsî that are suggesting that the Fed is pondering a change in direction. If there are any ëtea leavesí in the analysis, they would read that QE is going to be ending pretty soon. The Fed is aware of the risks it is taking. The report quantifies the risks in an orderly, but scary way. The fact that this report exists, confirms to me that some Fed members are increasingly uncomfortable with those risks.
Barclays has appointed City headhunters to find three new non-executive directors, as Sir David Walker looks to refresh the bank‚Äôs board following last summer‚Äôs Libor-fixing scandal. The Sunday Telegraph understands Sir David, who became chairman in November following the departure of predecessor Marcus Agius and chief executive Bob Diamond, is looking for at least one female director as part of the process. It is understood he is working with Anna Mann, who runs MWM Consulting, to find the trio to add ballast to the board. A top-10 shareholder in the bank, who asked not to be named, welcomed the news: ‚ÄúI think the board does need refreshing. The incumbents facilitated Diamond‚Äôs mismanagement, and so it‚Äôs definitely time for a change.‚Äù Sir David is believed to want to add directors to help his and chief executive Antony Jenkins‚Äô focus of shaping a new bank, from the one that received ¬£290m of fines in relation to the Libor row. In addition, given the fact the current 12-person board has only one woman ‚Äì economist Dambisa Moyo ‚Äì he is thought to want to ensure at least one of the new recruits is female. Having initially contacted a number of possible candidates under his own steam, Sir David is understood to have hired Ms Mann, one of the City‚Äôs best known headhunters, due to the difficulty in finding people willing to join the board of a major bank, given the commitment needed and the constant pressure from politicians. Many financial services companies are finding it increasingly difficult to attract the right calibre of non-executives, because of the increased scrutiny holders of such positions are now put under. In addition, tightened vetting by the Financial Services Authority means there is a much smaller number of potential candidates for such roles. Sources indicated the Barclays recruitment drive was about far more than replacing those whose terms have come to an end. It is thought that during last summer‚Äôs turmoil ‚Äì which at one point saw Mr Agius resign only to be reinstated 24 hours later when it became clear Mr Diamond was to depart ‚Äì a number of current non-executives expressed a desire to leave due to the time and commitment the role requires. As it was, in addition to Mr Agius, Alison Carnwath, who chaired the remuneration committee, was the only non-executive to depart, resigning with immediate effect. She was later replaced on the board by Tim Breedon, former chief executive of Legal &amp; General. At the time it was known that a number of Ms Carnwath‚Äôs peers were frustrated that her departure meant it would take even longer for them to extricate themselves from the positions. However, one source cautioned that Sir David must take care not to fill the board with too many new faces all at once. Barclays declined to comment. 
I wrote some time ago that Greece had a choice between Disaster A: staying in the euro; and Disaster B: leaving the euro. I have recently come back from four days in Greece, meeting with lots of people at all levels of society, and will share with you in this letter my analysis of their choices and the results. I‚Äôll also have a few things to say about what the developments in Greece might mean for the rest of Europe and the developed world. I penned these words in January of 2010: ‚ÄúEveryone knows the problems of Greece. There is no political will in the country (so far) to do what Ireland has done, and really cut their budget. I think Spain is an even bigger nightmare for the EU when compared to relatively small Greece. Italy? Belgium? Portugal? All those countries (and their voters) will be watching to see how the EU deals with Greece.‚Äù Which was good for Greece, as it gave good reason for the rest of Europe to care about what happened to Athens. Let‚Äôs start with the conclusion: they have chosen to stay in the euro. If a depression meets your definition of an economic disaster, then it is reasonable to conclude that their choice has been a disaster. Greek GDP is projected to be down by 25% by the end of 2013, as measured from the beginning of the crisis. Exiting the euro at this time would only double the disaster. They must now finish what they began. As we will see next week, this may be the story all over Europe. The cost of breaking up the euro, or of a country leaving on its own, is simply now too high. For better or worse, the marriage must endure. Let‚Äôs rewind the tape to see what I meant when I said that whatever Greece decided to do would be a disaster. At the beginning of the crisis, Greece was totally dependent on borrowed money both to finance its government spending and its massive trade imbalance in the private sector. While the cause of the crisis was too much debt and a deficit (both public and private) that was out of control, the immediate trigger was the loss of access to the bond market as interest rates rather quickly spiraled out of control. Let‚Äôs look at two graphs. The first is the Greek ten-year bond for the last five years. Notice that three years ago Greek interest rates had not yet moved up. The bond market was clearly not seeing what I and other observers (and multiple hedge funds) were seeing: Greece simply could not pay its bills. Greek (and peripheral-country) debt had become the new subprime. But European leaders were in massive denial about Greek solvency. You only have to do a simple Google search to find dozens of quotes from said leaders assuring us that Greece would not default, almost right up until the moment they did! (One even admitted that it was necessary to lie about it!)  The second chart is Greek two-year debt. By this time last year interest rates had skyrocketed to 177.37% (and bond values had plunged!).  As the crisis was unfolding, a narrative developed about the Greek national personality. ‚ÄúThey don‚Äôt pay their taxes.‚Äù (There is more than an element of truth there. Tax evasion was a national sport at which they excelled, perhaps matched only by the Italians.) ‚ÄúThey are overpaid and don‚Äôt work hard.‚Äù (Verifiably false.) ‚ÄúThey cheated to get in the eurozone.‚Äù (True, but they were in good company.) The classic piece was the story written by Michael Lewis for Vanity Fair, delving into the systematic corruption of the tax system, among other national issues (more on which later). I have written about that article in this letter and quoted it here and in Endgame. It is a brilliant piece of narrative journalism. It became easy to dismiss Greece as a failed system. ‚ÄúSpain is not Greece,‚Äù Prime Minister Rajoy told us in the midst of their own crisis. Indeed, we were told by leader after leader that their countries were not Greece, that somehow their crises were different and that helping them was not the same as helping Greece. We were greeted almost daily with the spectacle of riots and demonstrations, of political chaos. It seemed like the news was ‚Äúall Greece, all the time.‚Äù Was Greece going to be the first in a series of dominoes to fall as it exited the euro? Those of us who characterized the euro as an experiment and not yet a currency (as it had not gone through a crisis) saw even more reason to be skeptical of a currency union that existed without a fiscal union. The term ‚ÄúPIIGS‚Äù (Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain) entered the vernacular as a euphemism for debt-ridden profligates. Writing that Greece had only a choice between two disasters was not being dismissive on my part. It was simply recognizing the cumulative effects of the failure to make difficult choices. Once Greece lost access to the bond market, the game of borrow and spend was over. (By ‚Äúlost access‚Äù I mean that they could not borrow money at interest rates that gave them any hope of being able to pay off their debt. The compounding nature of their debt and deficits would mean that soon the interest payments would be more than government revenue. Bond markets will exit long before that point.) Since we know what happened as a result of Greece in the euro, let‚Äôs undertake a thought experiment and imagine what Greece would look like if they had exited the euro. The ‚Äúgood news‚Äù is that the new drachma would have immediately dropped by 50%, thus eliminating almost overnight the trade imbalance, as any imports would require a ‚Äúhard‚Äù currency (euros, dollars, pounds) and that money would only come from exports. Greece would have been plunged into an immediate and steep depression. While government workers would get paid in drachma, banks would have gone bankrupt and been forced into nationalization. Businesses that needed to import materials to make goods, either for local use or to turn into exports, would have been cash-starved. It would have been chaos. True, Greece could simply have walked away from their debt and then appealed for emergency and humanitarian aid from the IMF and others. But it would take time for any such institutional response to happen. At the time, I thought that Greece might indeed elect a government that would leave, because of the pain involved in staying. If you remember, there were several elections, keeping politicians throughout Europe on edge for months on end. It was close. Last year it took two elections to come up with a coalition government. In the end, a real majority of Greeks wanted to stay in the euro, whether they were politically left or right. A crisis-management coalition government emerged to try and figure a path out of the mess. And it has not been (and will not be) easy. Greece has been, is, and will be on financial life support for some time. That means money from the ‚ÄúTroika‚Äù (the IMF, the ECB, and the European Union). But that money has come with strings. It has meant a regimen of ‚Äúausterity,‚Äù otherwise known as living on a budget. As I have written about at length, the European banking system is a systemic disaster. The regulators ENCOURAGED (there is no graphic strong enough to express the outrageousness of such a design) their banks to buy government debt and allowed them to leverage that debt by up to 40 times. This was on the theory that no sovereign (European) government could actually default, so therefore there was no need to actually reserve capital against the possibility of a default. And if Greek (and Portuguese and Irish, etc.) debt returned a modest premium (2-3%) over German or French debt, then the spread was worth it to the bank managers and shareholders. After all, the regulators had said there was no risk; it was easy money. Even economists can figure out how to make money at a ‚Äúmodest spread‚Äù on 40 times leverage with no risk. Just ask those clever guys at Long Term Capital. And if the spread was 2%? Then back up the truck and give me some more. 100% on your capital per year with no risk? Where do I sign up? And thus the EU found itself in a credit crisis when Greek debt started to rise in risk, having already been decimated by the subprime crisis. Someone finally noticed that Greece could not hope to pay off its debt. However, German and French banks had so much Greek (and other peripheral-country) debt that if Greece defaulted they would be bankrupt. That would of course force the respective governments to capitalize their banks to keep their countries afloat. But then that would call into question their own credit worthiness as we are talking a great deal of money. And if Greece were allowed to default, then what would that imply about other peripheral-country debt? The word contagion slipped into the economic lexicon as Merkel and Sarkozy (and many other European leaders) openly worried that if Greece were allowed (or forced) to exit the euro, the entire euro experiment might be called into question. So the easy fix was to simply loan Greece the money to allow them enough to pay the banks until the loans were small enough that what remained could be written off. Of course, the loans from the Troika were considered sacred and have not yet been written down (more below). But private holders of Greek debt are down some 90% on a mark-to-market basis (as I predicted). And I may have been optimistic. We shall see. So, let‚Äôs fast forward to my four days in Greece. I was in Europe for a series of speeches in Scandinavia for the Skagen Funds. I had to be in Geneva eight days later, so rather than return home to Dallas just to fly back again, I decided to stay in Europe. I had been writing about Greece for many years but had not visited, though I had corresponded with Greek readers during that time. So after Scandinavia I spent the weekend in the south of Spain, a day in London, and then flew on to Athens. I had asked my good friend Christian Menegatti, managing director and head of research at Roubini Global Economics, to come with me. Christian is Italian and married to a Greek wife (with a new baby!). Between the two of us, we stayed extraordinarily busy with meetings. We saw business leaders and entrepreneurs, politicians, economists, central bankers, and investors. And at night, neither of us being shy, we made a point of frequenting the tavernas and meeting the locals. Let‚Äôs review a few quick facts, and then I‚Äôll share with you some of what I learned, starting with some anecdotes gleaned from those evening sojourns. The Greek economy is down some 20% in terms of GDP since the beginning of the crisis. This year it is forecast to be down another 5% or more. Indeed, The Economist projects that Greece will be the worst-performing economy in the world in 2013. A glance at the table below shows the best and worst nations among their forecast. (Question for the people putting this forecast together: How can Greece be worse than Syria? Seriously?)  Unemployment, I was told, is close to 27%, still rising, and could approach 30%. Youth unemployment is over 50%, and young people are leaving. Over ‚Ç¨80 billion has left the banking system for other countries. Banks are basically depending on emergency Greek central bank lending in order to maintain liquidity. Theoretically, these loans will eventually be a debt of the Greek government. Greek banks are totally bankrupt, having had to take massive haircuts on their Greek debt. Banks that are considered ‚Äúsystemic‚Äù will be required to raise 10% of the money needed to recapitalize them, in order to get the 90% available from EU funds. Banks that are not considered systemic will simply be nationalized. This is a point we will revisit. That all sounds so grim. And indeed, there were reports of bombs being set off as I left the country. Apparently, no one was hurt. And there was a demonstration of sorts arranged for me on Saturday afternoon. They blocked the streets off in front of our hotel (the Grand Bretagne), which is on the plaza in front of the capital building. When you see pictures of Greek demonstrations, they are likely taken from the same vantage point we had. After experiencing a march with 700,000 protesters when I was in Buenos Aires last November, this seemed rather tame. Mostly it looked and sounded like a rock concert with bad music. I was told by the doorman that it was a protest by the ‚Äúradical left‚Äù against the racism of the ‚Äúradical right.‚Äù ‚ÄúIf no one shows up, then they will open the streets pretty soon.‚Äù I waited, and when the only assault was upon my ears, I went back to my room. All the economic devastation and political talk conjures up a mental picture of a war zone, yet it all seems so normal when you are there. The setting is somewhat surreal, with the Acropolis and 2,500-year-old Parthenon dominating the view, beautifully lit up at night. (Athens really should be on your bucket list. It is off-season now, but the streets are not empty at night, and the restaurants and tavernas fill up, mostly with locals, as the evening progresses.) Christian and I ended up taking the same early-evening plane to Athens. We quickly parked our luggage and set out to find dinner, walking to an area that Christian knew. We sat outside, ordered some simple fare, and planned our next few days. Eventually the owner came by, noticed the odd accent (mine), and stopped to chat. When he found out we were trying to learn about the situation in Greece, he opened up. We peppered him with questions about business and his feel for the economy. How was he making it? It struck me as odd at the time that he emphasized several times that he had cut his overhead by going directly to local farms for his food (which was good). No middlemen for him! I wondered why you would wait until a crisis to source better and less expensive food, but I didn‚Äôt ask. We shook hands and he started to walk away, and then on a whim I asked him what he thought about the new coalition government. He looked down and then glanced around. He said quietly that he had voted for the Golden Dawn Party, looking to see if we would turn away. When we simply asked more questions, without commenting, he warmed up. (Note: this is the party of the ‚Äúradical right‚Äù that was mentioned by the doorman. Golden Dawn gets about 8-10% in the polls. When it is mentioned in the global media it is often referred to as neo-Nazi.) Within a few minutes he was quite upset ‚Äì not at us, though! He pointed animatedly in the direction of the capital, punching the air for emphasis, and exclaimed (without raising his voice too much), ‚ÄúThey stole billions and put it in Swiss accounts and now they want to tax us more to pay for their theft. They‚Äôre all the same!‚Äù The next night offered quite a contrast. In the evening we walked to the base of the Acropolis and found what looked like a promising venue and entered. It was early by Greek standards, but a performer was playing a guitar and singing Greek tunes to a table of six (ahem) older gentleman, clearly old friends eating and drinking together. (Later we found out they had been gathering once a month like this for 20 years.) As the evening went on and the wine kept flowing, they began to sing. A second guitar appeared. The aromatic cigars came out and were smoked directly beneath the no-smoking sign, with no sense of irony. One patrician gentleman stood a few times to have his picture taken with locals who dropped by that evening. The singer sang on for three hours without a break, clearly into the moment. Evidently, you cannot sing certain songs without using your arms. At first it was just one participant providing the counter-melody, but then others joined in a multi-part chorus of practiced harmony. The young owner of that tavern came by, and we started out as the night before, asking questions. When he found out what we were looking for, he went to the table and pulled one of the elderly gentlemen away and introduced us. It turned out that he was an economic journalist and chairman (emeritus) of a Greek journalism society. I quickly borrowed a pen and began to take notes on a paper placemat. He was an odd mixture of pessimism and hope, a perfect living metaphor for what I found from top to bottom in Greece. This was the best government he had seen in his life: ‚ÄúI trust this government.‚Äù But when asked if he was optimistic, he shook his head wearily and said no. When we pressed him as to why ‚Äì and we had heard variations on this throughout the trip ‚Äì he said, ‚ÄúThe government is the prisoner of the bureaucracy. We have 4,021 associations and 6,200 codes. You simply cannot change things. There are 600,000 tax elements. No one really knows who pays what.‚Äù He continued: ‚ÄúRemember the spectacle a few years ago, when a new government came in and found massive debts and accounting irregularities? The blamed all the problems on the old government as they negotiated for new loans from the EU. Of course, the people they were blaming were bureaucrats they themselves had appointed, the last time they were in power. The government still to this day does not know how money is spent. They will try to change. But even if they pass new laws, under the rules a minister does not have to enforce them.‚Äù It seems the bureaucracy is the prisoner of the associations ‚Äì what we refer to in the US as regulatory capture. This is when a regulatory agency, ‚Äúcreated to act in the public interest, instead advances the commercial or special concerns of interest groups that dominate the industry or sector it is charged with regulating. Regulatory capture is a form of government failure, as it can act as an encouragement for firms to produce negative externalities. The agencies are called ‚Äòcaptured agencies.‚Äô‚Äù (Wikipedia) Which brings us back to the comments by the first restaurant owner about cutting out middlemen. I asked one of my hosts (and got someone to confirm) that the rules are set up so that very few suppliers of a product get to compete. You buy your oil or produce from a very limited group of suppliers. Going direct is legal but evidently not all that easy. Is it the same in every business and industry? No, but enough to be an issue. One businessman told us that he has a factory in Germany and one in Greece. The one in Greece is just as productive as the one in Germany, but he needs five times the number of accountants and lawyers and clerks to deal with the system. This letter is getting long and I am only halfway through (but just getting going on Greece!), so I will pen a second part next week, detailing my impressions from meetings with businesses and government officials, along with some new reports and quotes. But I don‚Äôt want to end here without giving you some sense of my conclusions. I found guarded optimism in Greece that things can change, and from people that six months ago would have been deeply pessimistic. The source of that change, as we will see, is somewhat ironic. Greeks are natural entrepreneurs. As I noted a few weeks ago, it was the son of a Greek immigrant who pioneered horizontal drilling and fracking here in Texas. And new Greek businesses are sprouting everywhere. There is real potential for an upbeat finish to what was a disastrous beginning to this crisis. I heard time and time again, ‚ÄúIf we can get through the next six months without real protests or ‚Ä¶‚Äù More cuts are coming, and deep ones. Things must change, and there is a real constituency, especially in the bureaucracy, that does not want to see change, at least for their part of the world. But all that will have to wait for next week ‚Äì just remember, what happens in Greece will not stay in Greece. As I noted three years ago, the rest of Europe is watching. This Greek song will be sung in tavernas and inns and bistros and gasth√§user and pubs and osteria all over Europe. The words will be different, but the tune will be the same. Sung by old men who wish for better times for their grandchildren. I leave Sunday for Toronto, where I will spend the evening discussing life and economics with good friend David Rosenberg, and then meet the next day with Rick Rule and the team at Sprott Investments. That evening I will be speaking for my Canadian partner, Nicola Wealth Management, at the Trump Hotel. I will be on the Suns News Network in the morning and guest host on BNN at 3 PM with Andrew Bell and Saijal Patel, old friends whom I have only met so far through the camera, so it will be fun to be with them live. The following day I fly to New York for some meetings and, I think, a spot early with Tom Keene on TV and then radio at 8 AM. Then a few more meetings and some media still being worked out, before I head off to Washington, DC to be with my good friend Newt Gingrich and have some meetings on the Hill the next day, before flying back to Dallas that evening. The next week I fly into Las Vegas to give a speech to the Turnaround Management Association. (I can see my opening line: ‚ÄúI just came back from Europe, and ladies and gentlemen do I have an opportunity for you!‚Äù) I am making plans to go to Argentina for two weeks in the middle of March. My friends and partners at Casey Research have built a magnificent resort in the north of the country (Salta Province), just outside the city of Cafayate. It is magical horse and wine country, set in the foothills of the Andes, with a year-round perfect climate. One of the best golf courses in South America (at least the longest!), world-class spa and gym, and the wonderful Cafayate plaza at night. They do a semi-annual event for property owners and people who are interested in having a special getaway place. I will be spending most days there working on my latest book, getting in workouts and visiting the spa, and just taking in the beauty of the place. There will be evenings with friends Doug Casey, David Galland, Olivier Garret, Bill Bonner, and whoever else shows up. (This is one of the few places I go where I am the tolerated liberal; but these guys, being libertarian by nature, tolerate almost anyone as long as they are interesting.) I intend to spend more time there each year, I think. They still have a few spots open if you want to join me. You can check it out here. You can view photos of the area and the resort on the website; but realize that pictures don‚Äôt capture how breathtaking this place is when seen live. And the ride to Cafayate through the canyon is simply not to be missed. Ed D‚ÄôAgostino, the guy who really runs Mauldin Economics, wants me to note that they are looking for a few good marketing copywriters, who know the difference between marketing copy and the hype that sometimes gets associated with economic letters. You can contact him at Talent@MauldinEconomics.com. It is time once again to hit the send button. That time in the Greek taverna with the elderly gents is a special memory for me. It was like a setting from Zorba the Greek. It is what we imagine Greece to be, so rich and fruitful and full of heart. Now I just need to figure out how to get to a Greek beach this summer! Your thinking about how things must change everywhere analyst, John Mauldin subscribers@mauldineconomics.com
The Weekly Leading Index (WLI) of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) rose in the latest public data. It is now at 130.6 versus the previous week's 130.4. See the WLI chart in the Appendix below. Likewise the WLI annualized growth indicator (WLIg) rose, now at 7.2, up from last week's 6.1. WLIg has been in expansion territory since August 10th, and it is at its highest level since April of 2011. ECRI posts its proprietary indicators on one-week delayed basis to the general public, but ECRI's Lakshman Achuthan has switched focus to his company's version of the Big Four Economic Indicators I've been tracking for the past several months. See, for example, this November 29th Bloomberg video that ECRI continues to feature on their website. Achuthan pinpoints July as the business cycle peak, thus putting us in the seventh month of a recession. Here is a chart that illustrates why ECRI's weekly indicators have little credibility -- The smoothed year-over-year percent change since 2000 of their proprietary weekly leading index. I've highlighted the 2011 date of ECRI's recession call and the July business cycle peak, which the company claims was the start of a recession. † † First a flashback for those of us who have followed ECRI's media appearances: we know that the company adamantly denied that the sharp decline of their indicators in 2010 marked the beginning of a recession. But in 2011, when their proprietary indicators were at levels higher than 2010, they made their recession call with stunning confidence bordering on arrogance: For a few months, ECRI's indicators cooperated with their forecast, but that has not been the case in the second half of 2012 -- hence, I surmise, their switch to the traditional Big Four recession indicators. ECRI's December 7th article, The Tell-Tale Chart, makes clear their public focus on the Big Four. † The Big Four The Big Four Indicators that I track includes real retail sales based on the same formula as the Federal Reserve economists (see this PDF file for details). By this metric, sales continued to increase until October, the data for which was significantly impacted by Hurricane Sandy, but then bounced back in November and December. In contrast, ECRI uses Manufacturing and Trade Sales data, which is updated monthly along with the BEA's Personal Consumption and Expenditures release. However, the numbers lag by one month from the other PCE data. The series is available on the BEA website. See Section 0 - Real Inventories and Sales and look for Table 2BU. Here is a side-by-side comparison of the two measures of sales showing the percent off the all-time high. Here is a closer look at the pair since 2010. I've used markers to clarify the monthly changes. Note that the latest Manufacturing data is through October. We won't have the November numbers until the last day of January. My Personal View... Essentially it's unchanged from last week. The Fiscal Cliff is behind us and the Debt Ceiling showdown has been pushed out. The Big Four Economic Indicators continue to show expansion with the exception of the lagging Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales report. The next big indicator to watch (aside from Real Mfg &amp; Trade) is December's Real Personal Incomes Less Transfer Payments, out January 31. We saw a sharp increase in the income metric for November, and I think we may see another jump for December. The reason I say this is the expectation that a statistically significant amount of January income was no doubt moved to December to avoid expected tax increases. The November increase was also probably a result of tax planning. If so, then the January Real Personal Income (published at the end of February) will drop. For an illustration of the impact of this year-end tax planning strategy in the past, see this YoY Personal Income chart and note the two pairs of tax-planning callouts in the 1990s. Here is a snapshot of the version of the Big Four Economic Indicators with Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales. ECRI can take some temporary solace in their use of the lagging Manufacturing and Trade Sales, which won't include November data until the January 31st. But the December strength exhibited by Personal Incomes and Industrial Production and the (steady albeit slow) growth in Nonfarm Employment certainly do not support their recession call.  See also, the Conference Board's Leading Economic Index, out yesterday with data through December, which has now been updated with its annual revisions. The adjacent thumbnail illustrates the LEI before and after revisions. Note that ECRI puts the cycle peak and recession start in July. The Conference Board's LEI indeed shows a decline in August, but the trend has been upward through the end of the year -- not what we expect to see during the first six months of recession. The Usual Caveat: The recent economic data are subject to revision, so we must view these numbers accordingly. Nevertheless, I continue to think that an ECRI retraction of their recession call is long overdue. † Despite the apparent increasing irrelevance of the ECRI indicators, let's check them out. The first chart below shows the history of the Weekly Leading Index and highlights its current level. † † For a better understanding of the relationship of the WLI level to recessions, the next chart shows the data series in terms of the percent off the previous peak. In other words, a new weekly high registers at 100%, with subsequent declines plotted accordingly. † † As the chart above illustrates, only once has a recession occurred without the index level achieving a new high -- the two recessions, commonly referred to as a "double-dip," in the early 1980s. Our current level is 11.9% off the most recent high, which was set over five years ago in June 2007. We're now tied with the previously longest stretch between highs, which was from February 1973 to April 1978. But the index level rose steadily from the trough at the end of the 1973-1975 recession to reach its new high in 1978. The pattern in ECRI's indictor is quite different, and this has no doubt been a key factor in their business cycle analysis. ECRI, however, has "walked the plank" with the company's recession call. And at this point there's no "Peter Pan" recession to save them from a sea of crocodiles. The WLIg Metric The best known of ECRI's indexes is their growth calculation on the WLI. For a close look at this index in recent months, here's a snapshot of the data since 2000. † † Now let's step back and examine the complete series available to the public, which dates from 1967. ECRI's WLIg metric has had a respectable record for forecasting recessions and rebounds therefrom. The next chart shows the correlation between the WLI, GDP and recessions. † † The History of ECRI's Latest Recession Call ECRI's weekly leading index has become a major focus and source of controversy ever since September 30th of last year, when ECRI publicly announced that the U.S. is tipping into a recession, a call the Institute had announced to its private clients on September 21st. Here is an excerpt from the announcement: Year-over-Year Growth in the WLI Triggered by another ECRI commentary, Why Our Recession Call Stands, I now include a snapshot of the year-over-year growth of the WLI rather than ECRI's previously favored method of calculating the WLIg series from the underlying WLI (see the endnote below). Specifically the chart immediately below is the year-over-year change in the 4-week moving average of the WLI. The red dots highlight the YoY value for the month when recessions began. † † As the chart above makes clear, the WLI YoY, now at 5.8%, up from 5.6% the adjusted previous weekly data. This is higher than at the onset of all seven recessions in the chart timeframe. The closest to the current level was the half of the early 1980s double dip, which was to some extent an engineered recession to break the back of inflation, is a conspicuous outlier in this series, starting with a WLI YoY at 4.1%. Additional Sources for Recession Forecasts Dwaine van Vuuren, CEO of RecessionAlert.com, and his collaborators, including Georg Vrba and Franz Lischka, have developed a powerful recession forecasting methodology that shows promise of making forecasts with fewer false positives, which I take to include excessively long lead times, such as ECRI's September 2011 recession call. Here is today's update of Georg Vrba's analysis, which is explained in more detail in this article. † † Earlier Video Chronology of ECRI's Recession Call † Note: How to Calculate the Growth series from the Weekly Leading Index ECRI's weekly Excel spreadsheet includes the WLI and the Growth series, but the latter is a series of values without the underlying calculations. After a collaborative effort by Franz Lischka, Georg Vrba, Dwaine van Vuuren and Kishor Bhatia to model the calculation, Georg discovered the actual formula in a 1999 article published by Anirvan Banerji, the Chief Research Officer at ECRI: The three Ps: simple tools for monitoring economic cycles - pronounced, pervasive and persistent economic indicators. Here is the formula:
Stories dot the media describing shale development as booms that have transformed the economies of North Dakota and Pennsylvania. That broad portrait gets badly wrong the impacts of shale development on the economies of the two states. Simply put, Pennsylvania is not North Dakota. North Dakota has a population of 699,628, while Pennsylvania's is 12,763,536 or about 18 times larger. North Dakota's civilian labor force 392,000, with just 12,700 unemployed. †Pennsylvania's labor force is 6,558,700, with 516,700 unemployed. The gas boom has created about 100,000 jobs in Pennsylvania, if one counts "core," other direct, and indirect jobs created by shale gas production in Pennsylvania. Creating 100,000 jobs in Pennsylvania and North Dakota produce very different impacts on the two states. In North Dakota, 100,000 new jobs would mean a job for 1 of every 7 North Dakotans and 1 out of every 4 people in North Dakota's labor force. That many new jobs in a small population changes the entire state's economy. In Pennsylvania, 100,000 new jobs are much needed and very welcome, but they are not enough to create broad prosperity. †Here 100,000 new jobs means 1 out of every 127 Pennsylvanians has a job thanks to the gas industry. †Or 1 out of every 65 Pennsylvanians in the civilian labor force has a job as a result of gas production. †Those numbers are significant. †They even transform the economies of about 7 rural counties where gas drilling is concentrated. But Pennsylvania is not North Dakota. †In North Dakota, its unemployment rate is about 4 full percentage points below the national unemployment rate. In Pennsylvania, our unemployment rate for the last 4 months has been above the national unemployment rate and that is a change for the worse. †From 2003 to September 2011, Pennsylvania's unemployment rate had been consistently below the national unemployment rate. There is one more way that the shale booms in North Dakota and Pennsylvania are not the same. †North Dakota has an oil boom, and Pennsylvania has a gas boom. Indeed, North Dakota horrendously allows massive flaring of enormous quantities of natural gas that is co-produced with the oil. Oil is priced in a global market, but gas is priced regionally. †Today oil is about 27 times more expensive or valuable than natural gas. Pennsylvania is not North Dakota.
Vietnam on Sunday inked a deal with firms from Japan and Kuwait to build an oil refinery complex worth nearly $9 billion as part of efforts to meet its growing energy needs. The Nghi Son refinery, which is due to start operating by 2017 in Thanh Hoa province, about 200 kilometres (125 miles) south of Hanoi, will turn Kuwaiti oil into petrol and other petroleum products. It will be able to process 10 million tonnes of crude oil a year, the government said. State-owned PetroVietnam will own a 25.1-percent stake in the joint venture while Japan's Idemitsu Kosan and Kuwait Petroleum International will each hold 35.1 percent. Mitsui Chemicals of Japan will own the remaining 4.7 percent. Speaking at the signing ceremony, Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung hailed the project as "very important" for the communist country's economic and social development, according to a government statement. Vietnam has offshore oil reserves but still spends several billion dollars each year to import petroleum products to feed its growing economy. A ground-breaking ceremony for the Nghi Son refinery was held in May 2008 but the project has suffered a number of delays. It is still unclear when construction will start, an official from PetroVietnam told AFP, asking not to be named. The country's first refinery Dung Quat -- which cost around $2.5 billion and has a capacity of 6.5 million tonnes of crude a year -- opened in central Vietnam in 2009 after lengthy delays. PetroVietnam has said that it hopes the two refineries would satisfy 65 percent of the nation's oil and gas needs. It is also preparing for a third refinery project in southern Ba Ria-Vung Tau province. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
