Reuters/Guang NiuDespite the seasonal factors behind the recent surge in Chinese interbank rates, experts have argued that it has persisted because of the tough stance taken by Chinese policymakers. Societe Generale's Wei Yao expects liquidity conditions to stay tight through the second half of 2013. Yao sees credit growth falling from 25% year-over-year (YoY) to 16-18% YoY. Meanwhile, she expects non-bank credit growth to slow from 50% YoY, to about 30%. "The growth implication of the liquidity squeeze will be undoubtedly negative. Interest rates on bank loans, corporate bonds and shadow banking credit have begun to rise across the board as we speak, further discouraging credit demand. We are concerned whether this approach will really tilt credit distribution more towards the real economy in the short term. Much of the credit misallocation in China stems from the fact that lending is often not based on financial strength but on the implicit guarantee from the state." Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and smaller property developers will all be hit. But local government financing vehicles (LGFVs) could need more credit to make up for rising interest rates with implications for infrastructure investment. Yao like other experts believes that policymakers are willing to stomach short term pain for stable long-term economic growth. †Bottom-line: A credit burst is painful and inevitable: "In our view, there is no other ending to Chinaís massive credit misallocation than a painful burst. The question is when will it start unwinding and at what pace. Given the control that Beijing has over the economy and financial system, the answer lies more with the political willingness and/or policy (mis-)calculation, at least at the beginning of† the process. "Beijingís tough stance on the ongoing episode of interbank liquidity tensions shows that the willingness is finally here, although the aim is still to engineer a gradual burst. Whether or not Chinese policymakers will be able to pull off a controlled burst, more negative events will follow, including corporate failures, nonperforming loans and bond defaults. This is the beginning of the end." Yao thinks the risk of systemic financial crisis will be manageable in 2013 but will increase in coming years. And we need to watch and see if it is a controlled burst or not.
REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth Maria Sharapova got sent packing, too.LONDON (AP) ‚Äî What a stark statistic for the nation of Bill Tilden and Don Budge, John McEnroe and Jimmy Connors, Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi: It's been 101 years since no men from the United States reached Wimbledon's third round. And the last time it happened, way back in 1912, no Americans even entered the oldest Grand Slam tournament. By the end of Thursday, all 11 U.S. men in the 2013 field at the All England Club were gone, with top-seeded Novak Djokovic accounting for the last one by beating 156th-ranked qualifier Bobby Reynolds 7-6 (2), 6-3, 6-1. Earlier in the day, former top-five player James Blake lost to Bernard Tomic of Australia 6-3, 6-4, 7-5, while qualifier Denis Kudla was beaten by Ivan Dodig of Croatia 6-1, 7-6 (4), 7-5. That trio joined 18th-seeded John Isner, 21st-seeded Sam Querrey, Ryan Harrison, Steve Johnson, Alex Kuznetsov, Wayne Odesnik, Rajeev Ram and Michael Russell on the way home. "It's a tough stat to hear, but I still believe, right now, where U.S. tennis is, not too many guys are in their prime. That's why the numbers are like that. But a lot of guys are, maybe, in the tail end of their careers and a lot of guys are coming up," said Kudla, a 20-year-old from Arlington, Va., who is ranked 105th. "Maybe next year, or the year after that, things could change. You have to go through a little bit of a struggle to get some success." Led by top-seeded and defending champion Serena Williams, the U.S. women still are represented in singles at Wimbledon this year. Williams extended her winning streak to 33 matches, the longest on tour since 2000, by eliminating 100th-ranked qualifier Caroline Garcia of France 6-3, 6-2, while 18-year-old Madison Keys knocked off 30th-seeded Mona Barthel of Germany 6-4, 6-2. Keys next plays 2012 runner-up Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland, and Williams goes from a 19-year-old opponent in Garcia to a 42-year-old opponent in Kimiko Date-Krumm, the oldest woman to reach the third round at Wimbledon since the Open era began in 1968. "I have so much respect for her. I think she's so inspiring to be playing such high-level tennis at her age," said Williams, who at 31 is the oldest No. 1 in WTA rankings history. "And she's a real danger on the grass court, I know that. I definitely will have to be ready." Already into the third round with a victory a day earlier was No. 17 Sloane Stephens, while yet another American, wild-card entry Alison Riske, had her match against Urszula Radwanska ‚Äî Agnieszka's younger sister ‚Äî postponed by rain Thursday. "I can't put my finger on why the women are doing better than the men," Reynolds said. He wound up facing Djokovic with Centre Court's retractable roof closed because of the first drizzles of the fortnight, which prevented five singles matches from starting and forced the suspensions of three others in progress. The precipitation wasn't the only change Day 4 brought. After the chaos of Wednesday, when Roger Federer and Maria Sharapova were among seven former No. 1s who lost, results went mostly to form Thursday. Only one seeded man departed: No. 17 Milos Raonic of Canada, who was beaten 7-5, 6-4, 7-6 (4) by 64th-ranked Igor Sijsling of the Netherlands. There were, however, two more injury-related exits, raising the total of players pulling out of the second round to nine, which equals the Open era Grand Slam record for any round. All told, 12 players have withdrawn before a match or stopped during one, one short of the Wimbledon record for a full tournament, set in 2008. "It was a bit strange to see so many top players either lost or retired," Djokovic said. "But grass is a very special surface. It requires a different kind of movement. ... If grass at the start of Wimbledon is still not so used and, I guess, a little bit slippery, it can be dangerous, until you really get your right footing on the court. That's probably the reason why they all felt uncomfortable and they all injured themselves, unfortunately." Djokovic himself took a tumble midway through his tight first set against Reynolds, a 30-year-old based in Atlanta, then quickly rose and whacked his heels with his racket. About 25 minutes later, Reynolds hit a 122 mph service winner to hold for 6-all, and the crowd roared, eager to see whether this guy they'd never heard of could continue to push Djokovic, who is ranked No. 1 and owns six major titles, including at Wimbledon in 2011. But from there, it wasn't close. Reynolds missed two forehands early in the tiebreaker, helping Djokovic take a 5-0 lead before ending the set with a 117 mph ace. "He just puts so much pressure on you, point after point after point," Reynolds said. "He moves unbelievably well. ... You think you hit a good shot, but he's right there, crushing it back at you." Reynolds was, in many ways, simply happy to be there, on his sport's most famous court, facing one of its best players. "You can't put a price tag on it," said Reynolds, who went five years between Grand Slam match wins. "I'll keep so many memories from that match. I loved it. Once-in-a-lifetime opportunity." One shot Reynolds most definitely will recall, ruefully, came while leading 1-0 in the second set. Up love-30 on Djokovic's serve, Reynolds lost track of the ball and sent an overhead long. "It went in between the rafters, and then you see it, and then it hits the piping, and then it comes back out. I just mistimed it," said Reynolds, who never had break points, while Djokovic converted 4 of 18. "I guess it's lack of being in there, the surroundings." And so, at 7:43 p.m. local time, Djokovic deposited a backhand volley winner, the last shot hit against a U.S. man at Wimbledon this year. With 27 of 32 third-round spots in men's singles settled, 18 countries are represented, including Latvia, Ukraine, Croatia and South Africa. Five countries have multiple entrants left, led by four each for Spain and France. "I'm looking just to see if I can get to the next round. That's basically what it is. I don't feel like I'm carrying the U.S. flag (or) 'I'm the lone guy left,'" Reynolds said. "I actually wasn't aware of it at all." American men have won Wimbledon more than 30 times. Maurice McLoughlin did it in 1913, followed by Tilden in 1920, then Budge and Bobby Riggs in the 1930s, all the way through to players such as Connors, McEnroe and Arthur Ashe in the 1970s and 1980s. During the nine-tournament stretch from 1992 to 2000, a U.S. man won Wimbledon eight times (seven for Sampras, one for Agassi), and there was at least one ‚Äî and sometimes two ‚Äî in the final each year. More recently, Andy Roddick reached three finals from 2004-09, losing to Federer every time. As it is, American men are going through their longest drought without a Grand Slam champion anywhere; this year's U.S. Open will mark exactly a decade since Roddick won the title there. That, at least, can be partly explained by this: Switzerland's Federer, Spain's Rafael Nadal and Serbia's Djokovic collected 31 of the last 33 major trophies. But what happened at Wimbledon this week shows U.S. problems extend far below the top tier. Why? Reynolds offered some thoughts, including that kids are picking other sports, perhaps because of the high cost of tennis. He also believes there's simply more competition from elsewhere. "You look back years ago, the Americans usually were very good, whether it's basketball or baseball or tennis. Sports are becoming such a worldwide thing that everybody is so good now. ... We're so used to looking back and saying, 'Oh, look at all the dominance,'" Reynolds said. "Every country has top guys playing tennis," he said. "I think that's more of what it is, rather than the lack of talent coming out of the States." ___ Follow Howard Fendrich on Twitter at http://twitter.com/HowardFendrich Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Flickr / rhaagaThere's still some debate about whether America's shale oil boom is †merely an overnight sensation or a true-blue gamechanger ó we've featured both sides here. In a new study published by Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, former oil company executive Leonardo Maugeri predicts that for America's three largest shale oil plays ó the Bakken in North Dakota and the Eagle Ford and Permian Basin in Texas ó the boom should last at least another decade. He arrives at that estimate by calculating current well densities ó how many wells there are in a given acre of shale play ó and improving rig efficiencies, the result of improved drilling times and lower-cost drilling methods. Plus, he writes, new infrastructure coming online will make it cheaper to invest in these plays: Figures about the Permian basin are still in the making, yet it is possible to figure out that the Big Three U.S. shale plays have a combined potential of many more than 100,000 shale producing wells, or about ten times the number of those already on line. Taking into account this potential, the limits to drilling intensity probably would start affecting BakkenThree Forks and Eagle Ford only in the second half the 2020s.† There remains uncertainty about the rest of the country's plays. But Maugeri asserts that the U.S. will become the world's top oil producer within this decade, leapfrogging Russia to topple Saudi Arabia.†
And the gold liquidation continues. It just fell below $1190. Kitco Just two months ago, at the start of April, gold was around $1600. Just a few days ago, gold was still above $1300. The great, big, bull market is totally unwinding. Pretty soon talk will grow about when it falls below $1000.
It's almost unbelievable how rapidly investors are yanking their money out of the Emerging Markets. The sucking sounds particularly loud in the EM debt markets. "Emerging Markets debt-dedicated funds recorded net outflows of $5,578MM (2.19% AUM) for the week ending on June 26, 2013, reports EPFR," said Morgan Stanley's Robert Habib. "This is the largest outflows ever recorded by EPFR from EM-dedicated funds, twice as large as last weekís $2.6bn outflow. This is also a third of the net inflows into EM-dedicated funds year-to-date." The numbers are breath-taking. And this is troubling as these developing economies are at risk of a sudden stop óthe nightmare scenario where a country effectively gets shut out of the global credit markets. Earlier today, bond god Jeff Gundlach recommended investing in the emerging markets as a contrarian idea. Here's a geographic breakdown: Morgan Stanley This chart offers some historical context to the magnitude of the outflow. Morgan Stanley
If you've been betting on gold this year, watching it fall day after day ñ including a few spectacular crashes, like the one we've seen over the past few trading sessions ñ has probably not been fun. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge.As the daily candlestick chart at right shows, the shiny yellow metal hasn't spent many days in the green. Today, the price of an ounce of gold dropped below $1200 for the first time since August 2010, hitting a low of $1196.10 this afternoon before bouncing back to current levels just above $1200. BofA Merrill Lynch technical strategist†MacNeil Curry argues today in a note to clients that "further gold downside [is] limited." "While Gold has been on a relentless downtrend, the weekly ADX (a measure of trend strength, not direction ñ see chart 1 for additional info) says further weakness is limited. Indeed, previous ADX readings of 50 have resulted in reversals of between 35% and 36% of the flat price," writes Curry. "GOLD BEARS BEWARE. For now, the downtrend remains for 1212/1200, but this decline is in its final stages. Bulls need a move above 1270 to indicate a base and turn." The chart below shows the ADX, or "Average Directional Index," that Curry references. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, CQG The second chart shows the potential support levels flagged by Curry. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, CQG
DoubleLine FundsBond god Jeff Gundlach hosted a surprise webcast this afternoon titled: "What in the World is Going On?" Redux. "We arranged this hastily," he said. The title is a play on his June 4 webcast, where he aimed to address the return of volatility as reflected by rising interest rates and the spectacular crash in the Japanese stock market. However, since that call, rates only continued to surge, bringing down bonds all over the world. Of note is the 10-year Treasury rate, which broke through the 2.5%, a level that Gundlach said would not be breached. So what happened? Gundlach explained that the financial markets got sucked into a liquidation cycle. It probably started with a couple of leveraged players taking risk off. This was followed by prices dropping and interest rates rising. Then more leveraged players got margin calls.¬† More selling occured, people freaked out, and the cycle perpetuated. But that perpetual selling may have ended. "The liquidation cycle appears to have run its course," said Gundlach noting the recent rebound in various asset classes. Gundlach, a Treasury bull, emphasized that in the universe of bonds, Treasuries have actually been a clear outperforming bond sector He thinks anyone selling bond funds right now is making a mistake, as bonds are now offering more value. He reiterated his prediction that the 10-year would eventually head to 1.7%. "Gold looks like death," he said noting that the yellow metal now appears to be a decent contrarian buy.¬† However, he warned that it could go to $1,000 on momentum. "Gold has a very good downside upside ratio," he added. He believes it could go down as much as 20% before going up 50% from current levels. But if there were a contrarian idea that he liked more than gold, it's emerging market stocks.¬† He noted that the ratio of the S&amp;P 500 to the MSCI Emerging Markets has gone parabolic.¬† He thinks this is bound to correct itself soon. As usual, Gundlach offered a deck of charts that he used to frame his thesis.
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Are Advisor Compensation Models About to Shift? (Financial-Planning) It's all about relationships. According to PriceWaterhouse Coopers' 2013 wealth management survey, the traditional pay structure where a fee is tied to assets under management may shift to a more client-centric "reward and incentive structures" model. "Historically the focus was on net new money but we‚Äôre seeing a shift to the client experience, the client‚Äôs goals and managing risk," PwC's Steven Crosby told Financial-Planning. He said firms are starting to judge wealth managers' performance based on customer satisfaction. Advisers Warn Against Bailing On China (Wall Street Journal) As emerging markets continue to take a hit, advisers are warning that it's probably too late for investors to ditch China-focused funds, the Journal reports. Many managers are staying the course in China because "much of the damage from this banking scare has already been priced into the market," ValMark Advisers' Tyler Denholm told the Journal. Selling now would lock in the losses on China, which, apart from the recent credit crunch, enjoys favorable long-term projections. Investors More Sensitive About Adviser Fees (Wall Street Journal) Investors are complaining more about "fees" as of late. "We haven't seen this level of sensitivity about fee structures for advisers since the war against fund loads in the mid-1990s," Scott West, head of consulting at Invesco Ltd. told the Journal. Invesco found that investors react twice as negatively toward the word "fees" as they did "commissions." Costs" and "charges" also did not raise as much concern. "It just reminded us that conversations between advisors and their clients are as much about emotions as they are about laying out the facts," West said. 'Dumb Money' 401(k)-Investing American Workers Have Been Thrashing Hedge Fund (The Reformed Broker) It may sound counter-intuitive, but smart investing requires you to get excited about down-markets, Josh Brown writes. "The truth is, if your time horizon is long and you are saving a chunk of what you make each year, the very best thing you can do is ignore whether or not "the coast is clear" and simply continue to leg in to stocks." And that's why Average Joe investors have been beating market-watching hedge fund "geniuses." ANALYST: The Bond Crash Is Worse Than 1994 (Business Insider) ISI's Ed Hyman wrote to clients that the sell-off in the Treasury market is already worse than the 1994 episode.Looking ahead in 1994, bond yields surged another +100 [basis points] in the next 3.5 months," Hyman wrote. "Of course, the huge difference is that in 1994 fed funds were hiked +75bp during this period, and another +175bp by the end of the year." But in contrast, Hyman writes, there is no chance of a fed funds hike today, and the Fed's balance sheet will continue to increase even with tapering.ISI FINRA Bails On Plan To Supervise Reps' Outside Businesses (Investment News) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) dropped a plan "requiring broker-dealers to supervise non-securities-related businesses." The supervision idea was in an original filing, but last week the self-regulator said it had ‚Äúdecided that the best course is to eliminate the proposed supplementary material from the proposed rule.‚Äù
Reuters/Lucas JacksonGold entered bear market territory in April after falling 20% from its cycle high. Today, it broke below the $1,200 level. Euro Pacific Capital's Peter Schiff told Business Insider that he doesn't see any new triggers to worsen the sell-off.¬† Rather, he thinks we should consider what drove the sell-off in April. Here's Schiff: "You have a lot of speculators driving the market. You have speculative longs that are getting out and you have speculative shorts getting in and in some cases they're the same people that are flipping their position, they were long and now they're short... "I think the idea came that the stock market is doing well. It has been outperforming gold. People were looking at what they perceived to be better opportunities elsewhere. There was the perception that as far as the global financial crisis the worst was behind us, and then you got Ben Bernanke basically claiming victory saying his policies have worked and we finally have the recovery we have been waiting for, and that he's on the verge of removing quantitative easing. ...The Fed taking this away is giving people more reason to sell gold." Schiff thinks the view behind this gold trade is wrong. Gold is currently selling below the cost of production. And the cost of production has increased because of rising inflation. He anticipates mining companies won't invest in capital expenditures or exploration until gold hits $2,500 to $3,000 by his estimates.¬† The resulting shortage in supply should push gold prices higher.¬† "Mining is very energy intensive and ten years ago, oil was $12 - $15 a barrel, now it's $95 a barrel. So that's just one of the costs. Labor costs have gone up because the cost of living has gone up in many of the countries where gold is mined. The price of gold isn't even high because it doesn't even reflect its production costs...¬† "It shows you how prices need to go higher. Most mines are going to be shut down and there will be no supply and that all by itself means the price of gold has to go up because there will be no supply." Schiff also thinks the market is wrong about the economy being on the verge of a recovery. Reuters/Peter JosekNot only does he not expect the Fed to taper its $85 billion monthly bond purchase program, he expects the Fed to increase QE. He also doesn't think the U.S. economy is on the verge of a recovery. "It is on the verge of a recession," he said. "The whole narrative is wrong." While he thinks it is possible for gold to fall to $1,000, he thinks there has been a mispricing in gold and that it will turn around. "I don't know if it's going to take more weak economic data, if it's going to take Ben Bernanke himself or if the market is just going to exhaust the sellers on its own. I mean we're so oversold at this point so I don't know what is ultimately going to turn the psychology and turn the momentum. I just know that it's going to turn. And when it does, it's going to be vicious... "There's a lot of gold buying coming. I think this decline has brought the pessimism and the fear back into the gold market. There were too many professional investors who were on board, in fact a year, a year and half ago, it was 90% bullish on gold, now it's like 1% bullish. It's never been this low. The sentiment has completely turned at a time when fundamentals have never been better for gold. They've never aligned better than right now and everybody is basically talking about its demise. ‚Ä¶I think it's on the verge of its biggest rally ever, but I can't tell you when it's going to start." If you're looking for him to put his money where his mouth is. Here's proof. Schiff said he is increasing his position and that he is launching a a gold stock mutual fund in a few weeks, and he is convinced that there is tremendous opportunity there.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) Volatility Index, commonly known by its ticker VIX, measures the implied volatility of the S&amp;P 500. It is often referred to as the fear index since it tends to move in correlation with major changes in the market. We caught up with Mark Newton of Greywolf Equity Partners at the New York Stock Exchange recently, and had him explain the basics behind the VIX. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
And so it begins... This afternoon the CFTC charged Jon Corzine and fellow MF Global employee Edith O'Brien with mismanaging almost $1 billion in customer firms as the firm collapsed in the fall of 2011. The regulator alleges that the firm illegally (in its capacity as a broker) used customer funds to cover its own proprietary trades. Check out excerpts from the complaint here. In response, Corzine's lawyer, Andy Levander, has released a statement saying that the allegations are "meritless." Check it out below: This is an unprecedented lawsuit based on meritless allegations that Mr. Corzine failed to supervise an experienced back office professional who was located in a different city and who did not report to Mr. Corzine or even to anyone who reported to Mr. Corzine. After 20 months of thorough investigations by the Department of Justice, two bankruptcy trustees, and the CFTC, no evidence has been found that contradicts Mr. Corzineís sworn testimony before Congress. Mr. Corzine did nothing wrong, and we look forward to vindicating him in court. We look forward to watching.
CNBCJeff Gundlach of DoubleLine Funds just hosted a webcast to update us on the state of the crazy global financial markets. Gundlach holds these calls every few months, but this is the second call this month. Indeed, he gave the public almost no advanced notice. He spent some time defending his bullish call on Treasuries. During his June 6 webcast, he predicted that the 10-year yield would probably end the year at 1.7%. He was also quoted saying that it would not go above 2.5%. Even as rates surged, Gundlach doubled down last week and told CNBC that Treasuries were "the one place" to make money. Currently, the 10-year yield is at 2.48%, and it was as high as 2.62% earlier this week. People who'll be disappointed... what they're fleeing from &mdash; Treasuries &mdash; will be a top performer. Core PCE is low. "There is no inflation." It could go to $1,000 on momentum. "If you want to play it contrarian" you may want to play gold or silver. Virtually every commodity is down. This sell-off has nothing to do with inflation.  It's indicative of financial trouble. They reduce GDP and inflation forecasts, yet they emphasize monetary policy is data dependent. So, it's "odd" to stress reducing QE. "Markets are not freaking out because of Treasuries. I think it's the other way around." It starts off with some leveragged players taking risk off.&nbsp; Interest rates rise, margins calls come, and you get a liquidation momentum cycle. Mortgage rates are surging. The national average 30-year rate is at 4.57%. The home affordability equation is radically changing. Rates got this high because of the liquidation cycle. I don't think you can say Treasuries are the problem. They are the tail, not the dog. When inflation is stable duration (or bond risk) is long. "TIPS are probably the worst asset class in the United States." Bernanke doesn't think it's bad. But if mortage rates surge, etc... If you think interest rates are rising, you're probably moving into cash. Gold probably has 20% downside, 50% upside. But will probably go down before going up. ----- If you own no gold, starting to buy now makes sense.&nbsp; "I don't own much gold at all" It's a personalized decision. Product innovator isn't there. But the company is a big cash generator. "I think people have foolishly redeemed bond funds." ----- DoubleLine Funds have had liquidity buffers in anticipation of volatility. Don't ignore Shibor. Gundlach is long the Nikkei.
The CFTC has officially charged Jon Corzine and MF Global employee Edith O'Brien with the "unlawful misuse" of almost $1 billion of customer funds, and the juiciest parts of the complaint are the phone calls between MF Global employees talking about their firm going into emergency mode. You can read the full complaint on the CFTC website. Corzine officially buried his firm in the fall of 2011, when bad bets on sovereign debt pushed the commodities brokerage into bankruptcy. According to the complaint, the former Goldman trader was trying to turn the firm into a Wall Street investment bank that generated revenue "from proprietary trading" and other businesses. Corzine's laweyer, Andy Levander has released a statement calling these allegations "meritless."  In technical terms, MF Global was a 'futures commissions merchant' (FCM). That means that in the eyes of the law it had to have enough money in a separate account to satisfy "financial obligations" to all customers. That dollar amount is known as the "net liquidating value" (NLV). The firm is also obligated to keep money in a separate account for customers who ask MF Global to trade on foreign exchanges. Now that that's covered, the sheer panic in these phone calls will make perfect sense. On October 6th, 2011, O'Brien and other employees discussed that they would have to make a $50 to $75 million payment, and that it would have to come "from FCM Excess Cash because the Firm had no other readily available source of cash that could cover that amount. At the time, the FCM Excess Cash balance was approximately $80 to $100 million," says the complaint. Corzine had the option of using a $1.2 billion line of credit from JP Morgan but told an employee that he was OK with the FCM funds "going negative" to avoid using it and preserve the image that the firm was in good standing. That day MF Global's Treasurer said of Corzine, "we need to take the keys away from him." From the complaint: CFTC On October 25th, after allegedly transferring hundreds of millions of dollars from customer accounts to proprietary accounts, Edith O'Brien frantically asked BNY Mellon, MF Global's custodial bank, to put money back in customer accounts. She said it was "a total clusterf---" (from the complaint): CFTC †To be "under seg" or "under segregated" means lacking funds in a firm's mandated customer accounts. Two days later, Corzine was getting desperate. He wanted JP Morgan to clear his trades more quickly. To do that, he had to use more customer funds held in a JPM account. From the complaint: CFTC JPM, for its part, did eventually ask Corzine for written assurances that any transfers he was requesting were within the law on October 28th. The bank had realized that the money might be from customer accounts. Corzine wrote a letter to JPM and the letter was forwarded around MF Global for the appropriate signatures (including O'Brien's), but it was never signed. Later that day an employee told Corzine on a recorded call that MF Global's UK office may not be able to pay back $175 million that had been used to pay for overdrafts. According to the complaint the employee said, "I don't think the situation is going to be resolved, I think [MFGUK] is going to have a fail there." Corzine's response was simply, "we really, really can't have that." But they did have that. In a phone call with two employees O'Brien said that the UK office "failed" her, and you can almost see her tallying up how much money the firm needs to survive on her hands as she frantically tries to put together $530 million. From the complaint: CFTC CFTC The complaint says that by the end of the day MF Global had just over $177 million in customer accounts. But as we know, that didn't last.
REUTERS/Larry DowningWall Street Journal reporters Peter Nicholas and Jon Hilsenrath are reporting that the White House has "quietly begun assembling a short list of candidates" to take over as chairman of the Federal Reserve when current Fed Chair Ben Bernanke's term expires in January. Earlier this month,¬†President Obama¬†said in an interview, "Well, I think Ben Bernanke's done an outstanding job. Ben Bernanke's a little bit like Bob Mueller, the head of the FBI - where he's already stayed a lot longer than he wanted or he was supposed to." From the WSJ report: Obama administration officials have spoken to the Senate about putting forward a nominee so that legislative staff can begin the vetting process and prepare for confirmation hearings, according to a senior Senate aide. "They've indicated that they are working to get us a nominee in time for us to do our due diligence," the Senate aide said. People familiar with the process wouldn't divulge any names on the short list, but said there was no front-runner. The White House is still in an early stage of the process and might not announce its selection until the early fall, they said. Obama's interview earlier this month definitely raised eyebrows, and even prompted former Fed Governor Larry Meyer to suggest that Obama had "basically fired Bernanke on the spot." Janet Yellen, current Vice Chairman of the Fed, is widely tipped in the press as the frontrunner to succeed Bernanke. Read the rest of the report at the WSJ &gt;
REUTERS/Peter AndrewsThe stock market is now on a nice three-day winning streak. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Subprime mortgage lending aside, perhaps we could have avoided 2008's widespread housing crisis if only homeowners had paid a little more attention during math class.¬† That's the case made in a new study by a trio of Princeton University researchers, who say they've found evidence that people who can't perform basic math calculations are more likely to default on their mortgages.¬† First, they tracked down 300 homeowners who took out subprime mortgages in New England in 2006 and 2007. Then, the researchers did some digging to find out more about their financial situation, including their household income, age, education, marital status, and credit score. Then the real fun began.¬† They asked them five simple math questions, which "got more and more complicated," study author Stephan Meier, an associate professor at Columbia Business School, told Phys.org. "The simplest one was: There is a sofa that costs $300 when it's full price, and it's on sale for half the price. How much is it on sale?" Another question asked: "There's a disease, and the probability of getting the disease is 10 percent. How many people out of 1,000 got the disease?" The study found that 20% of people who scored low scores on the math questions wound up in foreclosure, compared to just 7% of people who scored high.¬† Interestingly the study also found that a¬†person's credit score carried little weight when it came to predicting their ability to meet mortgage payments.¬† The researchers expected to find evidence that people with poor math skills would have a harder time understanding the terms of loan agreements, thus leaving them more likely to sign up for a bad loan; but it turns out the real reason they were more likely to default was because they had a harder time dealing with other personal finance issues, like dealing with a lost job or depleted savings.¬† Obviously, it takes two to tango, and there's no denying that the subprime mortgage lending fiasco played a large role in the housing crisis. But there's something to be said about consumers who put in the time to learn the ins and outs of personal finances early enough to prepare themselves for disasters before they strike.¬† Check out the study, "Numerical ability predicts mortgage default," by Kristopher Gerardi, Lorenz Goette, and Stephan Meie here:¬†www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1220568110¬†

Ed Yardeni/Dr. Ed's Blog
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstFormer MF Global CEO Jon Corzine is sworn in to testify before a House Financial Services Committee Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing on the collapse of MF Global, at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, December 15, 2011.In November 2011, commodity futures brokerage MF Global was liquidated after then-CEO Jon Corzine's levered bets on risky European sovereign debt didn't pan out. In the process, $1.2 billion of customer funds deposited in brokerage accounts ‚Äì supposedly "sacrosanct," separated from the firm's own money ‚Äì vanished. Today, in what many victims would probably describe as "too little, too late," the CFTC finally brought a (civil) suit against Corzine. CFTC Commissioner Bart Chilton was just on CNBC, and anchor Mandy Drury posed a pointed question to him:¬†What took the CFTC so long to notice that there was a misuse of client funds? After all, it seems like everyone else had that figured out a year and a half ago. Chilton's answer: Well, one of our charges, one of the counts we have here, is we allege that they falsely reported, Mandy. I mean, we're talking about hundreds of millions of dollars in false reporting. They were undersegged ‚Äì¬†that means they didn't have the money they were supposed to ‚Äì¬†and they transferred money around like it was a shell game.¬† So, it's one thing to say that regulators should do a better job, and I'd agree, as you know, many times. But when people lie to us, it's a little difficult to get to the truth sometimes. Better late than never?
The CFTC has officially charged Jon Corzine with "unlawful misuse of nearly $1 billion of customer funds and related violations." MF Global employee Edith O'Brien is also being charged. It's impossible to forget how Corzine jettisoned MF Global in the fall of 2011. It's reported that Corzine had made a massive bet on the European bond market that backfired miserably. As a result, his firm started hemorrhaging money. What's at issue in this case is whether or not, as his ship was going down, Corzine used customer funds as a life raft to keep his firm going until it finally sank. From the CFTC: In the summer and fall of 2011, as MF Globalís need for cash was rising and its sources of cash were diminishing, Corzine knew that the firm was relying more and more on proprietary funds that it held alongside customer funds in FCM customer accounts. During this time, Corzine did not enhance MF Globalís deficient systems and controls sufficiently to ensure that the firmís increasing reliance on FCM cash did not result in unlawful uses of customer money. Ultimately, these failures contributed to the massive customer losses.As alleged, during October 2011, MF Global was on the brink of failure and in desperate need of cash to survive. As Holdingsí Treasurer told Holdingsí CFO at that time, in one of many recorded phone calls obtained by the CFTC, the firm was ìskating on the edge,î without ìmuch ice left.î Corzine was warned about the firmís liquidity stresses, and he knew that the firm violated its own policy that had been designed to protect customer funds. Holdingsí Treasurer recommended to Holdingsí CFO in a recorded call, ìwe have to tell Jon that enough is enough. We need to take the keys away from him.î In the last week of October 2011, with virtually no other sources of immediate cash to turn to, the firm repeatedly and unlawfully used customer funds for firm needs, ultimately leaving it nearly $1 billion short of customer funds. In that last week, Corzine is alleged to have been aware of the firmís true low cash balance, even as he directed the firm to continue paying large obligations without inquiring how the firm could come up with the money to do so. Corzine is charged for the firmís violations as an MF Global ìcontrol personî who, among other things, did not act in good faith and is also charged with violating his legal obligations to diligently supervise. The CFTC is seeking "full restitution" of the missing funds, plus a $100 million penalty from *MF Global. That will be up to the Court to decide. In reponse, Corzine's lawyer, Andy Levander has released a statement calling these allegations "meritless."  Below check out the full release from the CFTC: Washington, DC - The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) today filed an enforcement action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against MF Global Inc. (MF Global), a registered futures commission merchant (FCM), MF Global Holdings Ltd. (Holdings), former Chief Executive Officer of MF Global and Holdings Jon S. Corzine, and former Assistant Treasurer of MF Global Edith OíBrien based on, among other violations, MF Globalís unlawful use of customer funds that harmed thousands of customers and violated fundamental customer protection laws on an unprecedented scale. MF Global has agreed to settle all charges against it on terms set forth in a proposed order that is subject to court approval and includes 100% restitution of the approximately $1 billion lost by all commodity customers when the firm failed on October 31, 2011. Commissioner Jill Sommers stated, ìI am pleased that the MF Global Trustee has agreed to settle the charges against the company. There is nothing more important than doing everything possible to make full restitution to all commodity customers. I am also proud of the members of the Division of Enforcement team, who have worked so hard on this case to bring us to where we are today.î According to the Complaint, Corzine, a former U.S. Senator and New Jersey Governor with more than twenty years of Wall Street experience, joined MF Global as CEO in March 2010 with a plan to transform the firm from a futures broker into a major investment bank. Corzineís strategy called for making increasingly risky and larger investments of the firmís money. In the summer and fall of 2011, as MF Globalís need for cash was rising and its sources of cash were diminishing, Corzine knew that the firm was relying more and more on proprietary funds that it held alongside customer funds in FCM customer accounts. During this time, Corzine did not enhance MF Globalís deficient systems and controls sufficiently to ensure that the firmís increasing reliance on FCM cash did not result in unlawful uses of customer money. Ultimately, these failures contributed to the massive customer losses. As alleged, during October 2011, MF Global was on the brink of failure and in desperate need of cash to survive. As Holdingsí Treasurer told Holdingsí CFO at that time, in one of many recorded phone calls obtained by the CFTC, the firm was ìskating on the edge,î without ìmuch ice left.î Corzine was warned about the firmís liquidity stresses, and he knew that the firm violated its own policy that had been designed to protect customer funds. Holdingsí Treasurer recommended to Holdingsí CFO in a recorded call, ìwe have to tell Jon that enough is enough. We need to take the keys away from him.î In the last week of October 2011, with virtually no other sources of immediate cash to turn to, the firm repeatedly and unlawfully used customer funds for firm needs, ultimately leaving it nearly $1 billion short of customer funds. In that last week, Corzine is alleged to have been aware of the firmís true low cash balance, even as he directed the firm to continue paying large obligations without inquiring how the firm could come up with the money to do so. Corzine is charged for the firmís violations as an MF Global ìcontrol personî who, among other things, did not act in good faith and is also charged with violating his legal obligations to diligently supervise. David Meister, the CFTCís Enforcement Director, said, ìTurning a profit is not the only job of the person at the top of a CFTC-regulated firm. Particularly in times of crisis, the person in control, like the CEO here, must do whatís necessary to prevent unlawful uses of customer money, so that customersí money is still there if and when the music stops. The allegations in our Complaint serve as a stark reminder that we will enforce the law against responsible individuals at all levels of a firm to ensure that customer funds are properly safeguarded every minute of every day.î OíBrien, MF Globalís Assistant Treasurer, is charged with aiding and abetting the firmís misuse of customer funds. According to the Complaint, she directed, approved, and/or caused improper transfers of hundreds of millions of dollars from customer accounts to help meet the firmís needs during the final days of October 2011, while knowing that MF Global did not have sufficient proprietary funds available in those customer accounts for those transfers. The Complaint alleges that OíBrien remarked in a recorded telephone conversation that it ìcould be game overî from a regulatory perspective if funds were not returned to customer accounts on Friday, October 28, 2011, MF Globalís final business day. With respect to the company defendants, in addition to the misuse of customer funds described above, the Complaint charges that MF Global (i) unlawfully failed to notify the CFTC immediately when it knew or should have known of the deficiencies in its customer accounts; (ii) filed false reports with the CFTC that failed to show the deficits in the customer accounts; and (iii) used customer funds for impermissible investments in securities that were not considered readily marketable or highly liquid in violation of CFTC regulation; and that Holdings controlled the operations of MF Global and is therefore liable as a principal for MF Globalís violations of the Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulations. If approved by the United States District Court and the United States Bankruptcy Court, the proposed settlement of all charges against MF Global will require 100% restitution of all remaining commodity customer claims. The proposed order also includes the imposition of a $100 million penalty, which can be paid to the extent MF Global has not fully exhausted all available funds and assets paying customers and then other creditors entitled to priority under bankruptcy law. The CFTC also seeks full restitution and penalties against Holdings, Corzine, and OíBrien, in addition to trading and registration bans and injunctions against Corzine and OíBrien. The CFTC appreciates the assistance of the U.S. Attorneysí Offices for the Southern District of New York and the Northern District of Illinois, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom. CFTC Division of Enforcement staff members responsible for this case are Candice Aloisi, Elizabeth Brennan, Patryk Chudy, Christopher Giglio, Sheila Marhamati, David W. Oakland, Joseph Rosenberg, Michael Berlowitz, Karin Roth, Chad Silverman, K. Brent Tomer, Douglas K. Yatter, Steven Ringer, Lenel Hickson, Stephen J. Obie, and Vincent McGonagle. Jeremy Christianson from the CFTCís Office of Data and Technology also assisted in this matter, along with staff from the CFTCís Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight and Division of Clearing and Risk. *This article previously stated that the CFTC would seek a $100 million penaltyfrom Corzine himself. In fact that money will be sought from the firm.
LOCSome analysts are saying President Obama declared a "war on coal" in his climate change address earlier this week. If coal is indeed phased out, it will mark the end of what had been a staple of the American economy.¬† Industries come and go, but for states in the Midwest and Appalachia, coal has been instrumental in shaping local fortunes for much of the 20th century.¬† And nationwide, coal employed just as many people as the automobile industry until after World War II. We dipped into the Library of Congress' vast image database to take a look at America's golden age of coal.¬† We highlighted a couple salient elements: first, the work appears to have taken as much of a toll on miners' families as themselves. The coal industry also appears to have been one of the more racially integrated lines of work in the 1930s. This phenomenon has been well¬†documented¬†but hasn't gotten much attention.
ISIRemember in January, when all the buzz was about the possibility of a "1994 moment" ‚Äì a repeat of the bloodbath in the bond market that year when the Federal Reserve unexpectedly tightened monetary policy? Go figure ‚Äì in terms of the size of the move in yields, the sell-off the Treasury market has seen since early May is actually already worse than what went down 20 years ago, as ISI's Ed Hyman points out in a note to clients this week. "Looking ahead in 1994, bond yields surged another +100 [basis points] in the next 3.5 months," writes Hyman. "Of course, the huge difference is that in 1994 fed funds were hiked +75bp during this period, and another +175bp by the end of the year." Needless to say, the situation in 2013 is drastically different from that in 1994. "In sharp contrast, this year, there is no chance of a fed funds hike, and even with tapering, the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet will increase another +$450b, which could be viewed as equivalent to cutting the fed funds rate by roughly -50bp," says Hyman. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note has backed off a little from the high of 2.64% reached on Monday, and is now trading around 2.48%.
The rout in the gold market continues. Earlier, the shiny yellow metal broke through yesterday's low of $1221 an ounce on a bout of heavy selling, and is now trading around $1202 after hitting a low of $1198.90. Gold futures are now down 2.4% on the day. Check out the breakdown in the chart below from earlier, along with the big spike in trading volume on the sub-graph. Thinkorswim
REUTERS / Jessica RinaldiJeffrey GundlachJeff Gundlach, the bond god of DoubleLine Funds, has a long track record of successful investment calls. However, he has stumbled a bit in recent weeks. During a webcast earlier this month, Gundlach reiterated his bullishness on U.S. Treasury bonds, predicting that the 10-year Treasury yield would fall to 1.7% by the end of the year. But since that call, bonds around the world have tumbled and rates have surged (see chart below). CNBC's Scott Wapner spoke with Gundlach earlier today.¬† Here's Gundlach: The liquidation cycle appears to have run its course with emerging market bonds, U.S. junk bonds, munis and MBS ‚Äî all of which substantially underperformed Treasuries during the rate rise ‚Äî now recovering sharply... ...July will not be a repeat of May/June in the interest rate market. So, he's sticking to his call. Gundlach will be hosting a webcast this afternoon.¬† Surely, he'll provide us with much more color. Here's a look at the ugly performance of the 10-year Treasury yield since the beginning of the year via Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaDATE IMPORTED: June 26, 2013 A horse is tied as part of its training to be a racing horse at an area of grasslands located 70km (43 miles) from the Mongolian capital city Ulan Bator June 26, 2013. Markets are staging a nice rally. The Dow is at 15,036, up 126 points.¬† We last saw this index above 15,000 on June 20. Earlier today, we learned that initial jobless claims dropped to 346,000 last week, and personal income jumped by 0.5% in May. Pending home sales surged 6.7% in May, crushing expectations for a 1.0% gain. If the markets stay green, this would be a 3-day win streak.

pjern via FlickrEveryone loves a good mind game. But in the spirit of Wall Street, Goldman Sachs' quants ‚Äî¬†ma thematic geniuses who make the firm's lucrative algorithms tick¬†‚Äî like to take things a little more seriously. That's why 180 Goldman Sachs employees went on the craziest, $270,000, all-night, cross-Manhattan "Midnight Madness" scavenger hunt for charity, Quartz reports. The challenges were extravagant (and extravagantly difficult). From Quartz: The laser mini golf at 5 Beekman was also visually elaborate. The organizers had set up red, green and blue laser emitters and receptors on three floors.¬†The laser emitter cabinets were locked with combination locks, with the combinations found by solving other clues in the game zone.¬† Once a laser was emitted, players needed to use hand-held mirrors to bounce the beam around and through walls, corners, and windows to hit the receptor. Teams discovered where the finish line was when they finished all three levels. Goldman fronted the cash for the operating expenses, and teams raised $1.4 million for Good Shepherd Services, a non-profit that provides support to at-risk youth. Read the full report at Quartz&gt;
REUTERS/Steve MarcusAccording to Guest of a Guest: Apparently even billionaires have pest control problems, or so one might surmise from the flock of wild birds terrorizing the SAC trading floor yesterday.¬† Steven Cohen's $14 billion hedge fund in Stamford closed early on Wednesday, so that the 15+ birds which somehow found their way into SAC's high security, modern art filled headquarters could be caught and released. The hedge fund tycoon (who's estimated net worth of $9.3 billion) has an on-going¬†investigation for criminal insider trading,¬†one of the most famous modern art habits in America, and a serious need for a good exterminator. Sources say the avian influx announced itself yesterday, and despite the early closing, many of the birds are still at large today. Time is of the essence for Cohen, as the Feds must indict him by mid-July or let the titan (regarded as the most successful stock trader of our era) go to enjoy¬†his new $60 million oceanfront house in the Hamptons. With each passing day, the pressure is escalating for Cohen, and it looks like a few wild birds on the trading floor aren't going to ruffle his feathers. The birds are said to still be flocking around the trading floor, but that's all in a days work for the hedge fund raven. See the original story at Guest of a Guest.
Netflix In June of 1983, ìTrading Placesî was released in theaters. It remains the greatest Wall Street movie ever made. Thirty years later, most regard it as part of the canon of American comedies, having launched, revived, or defined the careers of many of its cast and crew. If you havenít seen it yet, you should probably repent to your local pastor, then log into your nearest Netflix account. But as a courtesy, weíll summarize the plot: Two septuagenarian brothers who run a successful commodities brokerage in Philadelphia get into an argument about whether a personís character is shaped by nature or nurture. They decide to make a bet: They will frame a top executive (Dan Aykroyd) with drug possession and soliciting a prostitute (Jamie Lee Curtis). Meanwhile, they will promote a street beggar (Eddie Murphy) to the executiveís former role. They will then observe whether the beggar and executive still act like their old selves.  To celebrate the 30-year anniversary of this film, we reached out to some key principals behind the film ó sadly, many are no longer with us, though their collective experience at the time of the shooting helped make the movie as good as it was ó to talk to us about how it got made and what it means today.  JOHN LANDIS, director:†I got a call from Jeff Katzenberg, the executive at Paramount at that time, asking if I would read a script called ëBlack And White,í which I thought was a lousy title ó ironically black or white was something I did with Michael Jackson several years later. It was very old fashioned, a social comedy very much like the screwball stuff done in the '30s. Hollywood made a series of movies ó Preston Sturges, Frank Capra ó these comedies that really were about society at the time, and were fairly political, but wonderfully funny and with strong characters. TIM HARRIS, co-writer: There were these two brothers who were both doctors who I would play tennis with on a fairly regular basis, and they were incredibly irritating to play with because they had a major sibling rivalry going, all the time about everything. So they always had to be separated, you know, play on the other team. And they were very wealthy but also incredibly cheap ó we would play on public courts where it was like a couple of bucks for four guys for an hour. And theyíd have arguments about who was coming up with 50 cents, and I think one very hot day I played with them, and I just came home and was fed up with it, and I just thought, ëGod, I just donít want to play with these people, theyíre awful.í And I had the idea of them betting on a nature/nurture situation with somebody in their company, and Iíd pretty much worked out the whole thing, and went over to Herschelís and told it to him and he thought it was fabulous. At the time I was living in what was a fairly run-down part of L.A. near Fairfax Avenue that was completely crime ridden. I lived in an apartment complex where everybody either had a gun held to their head or been raped or whatever ó just a very criminal environment ó that was part of it I suppose as well. NetflixEddie Murphy as homeless Billy Ray Valentine HERSCHEL WEINGROD, co-writer:†The truth is that the only way that a screenplay can really be judged, by definition, isn't on the page, it's by watching the film that was made from it. It can certainly be read and enjoyed, but the inescapable fact is that it was written in order to be seen. LANDIS:†The script was developed for Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor. And when I was sent the script, Richard Pryor, unfortunately, had his accident where he burnt himself rather badly, and they sent it to me and said, ëWhat do you think?í ë48 Hoursí hadn't come out yet, but theyíd previewed it, and Eddie Murphy had previewed very well, and they thought, ëAh this kid's going to be a star,í So they said, ëWhat do you think about Eddie Murphy playing the Billy Ray Valentine part?í And I of course said, ëWhoís Eddie Murphy?í Because I didnít watch Saturday Night Live since John [Belushi] had died. So I read the script, and I saw Eddie's tapes, and went to New York and met with Eddie. And they wanted ó I won't tell you who they wanted me to cast ó but the studio was very unhappy with almost everybody they wanted me to cast. John Belushi had died, and [Dan Aykroydís] movie without John was called ëDr. Detroit,í which was a failure, so conventional wisdom was that Aykroyd without Belushi was like Abbott without Costello, and that his career was over. Now I knew Danny well, having worked with him, and I knew Danny was a fine actor, and he could easily play this guy. Danny, he's an actor: You tell him what you want, and he delivers. And I thought he'd be wonderful. So he reduced his price quite a bit, and I got him, so I had Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy, and they were upset because Danny hadn't ó his last couple of pictures hadn't done well, and Eddie was still an unknown really. ë48 Hoursí came out while we were shooting... NetflixDan Aykroyd as Louis Winthorpe III, after losing his job and girlfriend. The only character in the script I had a problem with, because she's such a fantasy, is Ophelia. The classic ëhooker with a heart of goldí †ó she's such a fantasy that I thought how the fuck am I going to get away with this?í I had met Jamie Lee Curtis ó I shot a documentary on horror stuff, and she was host of it ó she was a ëscream queen.í And I met her and she was so funny and smart and sexy, and I thought, ëOh she'd be terrific.í † She had just made ëHalloween 2,í for which she'd been paid I think a $1 million, and we paid her probably $70,000. When I cast her the studio went nuts. I was called into the head of the studioís office and he said, ëThis woman's a B-movie actress,í and I said, ëNot after this movie!í But boy they really didn't like the fact that I cast Danny and Jamie. JAMIE LEE CURTIS, ëOpheliaí: I had made a conscious effort to actually stop doing [horror movies]. I knew that that would not allow me a full career ó that at a certain point it would get limiting. And I met John when he was doing a short ó a documentary about horror movie trailers from the '50s called ëComing Soon.í He needed somebody to narrate, so he hired me for that; that's when I first met him. And during the course of that, he must have had some sense that I would be good. So he handed me that part. He clearly went against every one of the studios. The casting people all thought he was crazy, and he single-handedly changed the course of my life by giving me that part. NetflixJamie Lee Curtis as Ophelia, a prostitute; Denholm Elliott as Coleman, Winthorpe's butler; and Murphy and Aykroyd as they plot revenge. HARRIS: The casting is very much to Johnís credit, he just cast the movie brilliantly, and all the minor parts really shine. Itís actually one of those movies, where it changes a lot of the participantsí careers forever. It got Jamie Lee Curtis out of horror movies. It got Herschel and I to a much more prominent level. The two old guys ó it completely revived their careers. It catapulted everybodyís careers in a positive way. LANDIS: The most remarkable story, casting wise: I thought, ëWell, I need someone who was a movie star in the ë40s, who never has never really played a villain, and I was thinking, ëHey, what about Don Ameche?í And the casting woman said, ëDon Amecheís dead.í And I said, ëI don't think so, I would know if Don Ameche is dead.í And so we called the Screen Actorís Guild, and his residuals were being sent to his son in Phoenix, Arizona. And I thought, ëWell that's not a good sign.í And he didn't have an agent, and I thought, ëShit, goddamm, who else could we get?í when one of the †secretaries said, ëI heard you're looking for Don Ameche.í We said ëYa.í She said, ëI see him all the time walking on San Vicente in Santa Monica.í NetflixRalph Bellamy and Don Ameche as the Duke brothers, hatching their scheme. So I called information, and I said, ëI there a Don or D Ameche on San Vicente in Santa Monica?í And there was! So I called him. And you know he has that unmistakable voice, and you realize, Don was a huge star, in the late í30s, definitely a big star in the í40s ó I mean he was Alexander Graham Bell for chrissakes! ó a major star in the í50s, Broadway star, radio star, movie star, television star. And I said, ëMr. Ameche?í ëYeeessss...?í ëMy name is John Landis, Iím with Paramount Studios, and I'm making a film and Iíd like you to consider a part.í So I had a script sent over. ëAnd could you please read this and can you come in tomorrow?í And he said, ëYes.í Would you like us to send a car?í He said, ëNo no, I can drive.í I said, ëGreat.í And he came in and was prepared to read for me. I was so shocked. I said ëYou don't have to read for me.í He hadn't made a movie in 14 years, he'd been doing dinner theater. While we were shooting later in Philadelphia ó he was so wonderful ó I said, ëDon, may I ask a question? How come you haven't worked in 14 years?í And he said, ëWell, nobody called!í The great upshot of this is after Trading Places came out, the next movie he was in was ëCocoon,í †which he won an Oscar for. He never stopped working the rest of his life ó he made like 10 more movies ó I worked with him twice more. HARRIS: [Philadelphia] has a connection with the founding of the country, the constitution, everybody being entitled to the pursuit of happiness, all the idealism thatís built into America. I thought it was a good way to highlight that, especially in the opening scene when you see the legless black guy. NetflixThe Heritage Club scene was actually shot inside an abandoned New York City building. LANDIS: A lot of the interiors that are supposed to be in Philadelphia are actually New York. The exterior and interior of Duke Brothers, the big floor, was Philadelphia. But the offices were upstairs at the Park Avenue Armory, they had these beautiful Stanford White interiors. In fact, there was a real Gilbert Stuart portrait of George Washington ó I said ëCan I use that?í [The Heritage Club location] was an amazing find. It's an old Chamber of Commerce building, it was empty ó a spectacular room, we just put the table in there. LANDIS: It took me a long time just to understand the con, what was going on. It's just so funny, it's so long ago now, the chicanery is so much more arcane now. At least in ëTrading Places,í at the end of the day, there was the commodity. HARRIS: I asked some people who were in that business to kind of walk me me through it, and when I was writing it ó it was like studying for an exam, you know, you kind of understand it the day of, and then 24 hours later you canít remember how anything works. NetflixMurphy and Aykroyd go long orange juice futures. LANDIS: It was actually in the script that the final scenes were in Chicago at the commodities exchange, but they would not let us shoot there. We really had tried every which way to get permission to shoot there, and I think truthfully once they saw we had a clear understanding of how it worked, it was like, ëNo!í So we ended up at the commodities exchange in New York which was at the World Trade Center at the time. About 90% [of the floor traders in the movie] were actual traders, and a great deal of it I shot during actual trading hours. They were into it ó if anything they were less rough. I was quite taken aback at how physically rough it was ó they really elbowed one another ... It was like a contact sport. They were basically trading like 8 or 9 hours a day, so we were in there for 3 to 4 hours on two days between opening and closing, and we got a lot done. I actually shot some ëguerrillaí stuff there that I used in the movie. I also remember that the commodities market, it was in one of the towers at the World Trade Center on the 50th or 60th floor ó no windows, and 3 to 4 stories high. That was very strange, to take an elevator up 50 or 60 floors, and then you thought you were underground. WEINGROD: The film got extremely good reviews from the major film critics at the time - Vincent Canby at the New York Times; Siskel &amp; Ebert, both on their TV show and in the Chicago Sun-Times; Richard Schicikel in Time Magazine; Sheila Benson in the L.A. Times; even People magazine. There were some negative reviews as well, but we were hopeful that the good ones would help audiences go and see the film. They did and, fortunately, they liked it a lot. I just looked it up, and it was the fourth highest grossing film in a year where ëReturn Of The Jedií and ëTootsieí were first and second. HARRIS: It didnít have a huge opening, but it just kept going and going and going. †I had a call from an agent saying he was getting calls asking if it was true that the whole film had actually been the producer Aaron Russoís idea, and that heíd just paid us to write it. Then I got another call saying Jeffrey Katzenberg at Paramount was going around saying it had all been his idea. Being by then already a Hollywood cynic, I knew it was a hit, because people were trying to steal credit for it already. CURTIS: Some people will pretend they knew it. Paramount maybe felt like it had something. In the middle of the process, you never anticipate that itís going to be off the charts. ... It's just a really funny movie. ëMotherfucker? Moi?í WEINGROD: If you write an original screenplay that becomes a commercial and critical success, you suddenly have a certain amount of legitimacy. No one's risking their job hiring you to do a writing assignment or even making another of your original scripts because you've already made money for a studio; you're in the club, as it were. ... Hiring writers whose films have been successful helps mitigate this essential absurdity of the screenwriting process for the buyer. LANDIS: Movies have a life of their own. HARRIS: It was probably just on the cusp of it becoming incredibly trendy to be absolutely rich. We played into that at the end of film: Tdream is achieved because these two guys, a black guy and white guy, both got filthy rich. I think thatís why the film is successful ó itís a satire on greed and social conventions, but it had a satisfying happy ending. They both got what they wanted. NetflixRandolph Duke reacts to getting a margin call. CURTIS: Old money still has the power ó nothing has changed. Itís shocking to me, but itís not surprising. Itís shocking that you would think people would be held accountable, but I just don't think that's reality today. LANDIS: The sheer enormity of the dishonesty that's rampant in the banking industry and securities business ... This all extends from deregulation ó just the cowardice and corruption of the Senate, it's just ... you can't exaggerate this stuff. You really can't. HARRIS: Somebody came up to me recently and said it was because of ëTrading Placesí that heíd gone into the world of finance, which is like a huge paradigm turn ó that a film written as satire of that world ends up inspiring somebody to go into that world and make a lot of money. But it just shows how times change since that film was made. WEINGROD: Bernard Madoff, former chairman of NASDAQ, had been investigated by the SEC since 1999, but the scandal didn't break until 2008. 'Nuff said. HARRIS: The movies that have come out about Wall Street, none of them are funny. Theyíre all melodramas, they take themselves very seriously. I think theyíre constrained, they have to be automatically liberal in their disapproval of it. I was sort of disappointed with that. ëTrading Placesí is a sort of backward-looking film, that owed more to the films of the í40s and í50s than it does to anything that was going on at the time it was made. ëBrewsterís Millionsí was a social comedy about money and greed and what it does to people, but after that, there were no films like that being made anymore. Comedies were being directed at a specific groups of kids ó teenagers ó and that seemed to take over a great deal.† I think itís probably an American thing ó theyíre not interested in looking at that stuff particularly. I donít think Hollywood is either ó itís awkward for them. The important people in Hollywood are really, really, filthy rich. They donít want to see that made fun of particularly, I donít think. CURTIS: Comedy is all about character and conflict. Thereís certainly enough conflict in banking, and there are certainly enough characters. Someone who's clever could come up with a good hook. NetflixElliott and Murphy celebrate their triumph with some friends.
REUTERS/Steve MarcusMiss Connecticut Erin Brady reacts as she is crowned by Miss USA 2012 Nana Meriwether during the Miss USA pageant at the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada June 16, 2013. With musings on the Fed taper¬†murdering bonds and confusing stocks, investors have been parsing the markets for signs of life. Markets have been crazy volatile as of late, with scary swings in the Dow.¬† But that doesn't mean that there aren't a few attractive bets out there. Morgan Stanley recently published its list of¬†Best Ideas¬†from around the world, and the list included seven stocks from North America.
AllThingsD Digital Gallery/Asa MathatYes, Evan Spiegel of Snapchat raised a lot of money at a big valuation. But his investors aren't as dumb as you think.A bunch of venture capital firms invested a lot of money in a mobile company last week at a hefty valuation. Specifically, IVP (which is also an investor in this site, Business Insider) and other VC firms pumped $60 million into photo-sharing startup Snapchat at a price that valued the company at a reported $800 million. These firms also reportedly wrote $10 million checks to Snapchat's two 20-something founders to buy some of their stock. Predictably, this combination of news made even intelligent pundits explode in righteous ridicule. An $800 million valuation and $10 million checks for 20-somethings for a 2-year old company with no revenue??? "Desperate lunacy!" the smart, plugged-in, and normally wise Dan Primack of Fortune cried, summing up the howls of ridicule emanating from the Silicon Valley techo-chamber.* [UPDATE: Dan's comment was actually directed only at the checks written to the founders, not the Snapchat investment as a whole. My apologies to Dan for misunderstanding this. Please see full note below.] In case you're tempted to just parrot this view and denounce Snapchat's investors as imbeciles, please consider the following. First, this happens every time an investor makes a bold bet. If you think armchair pundits are cackling with ridicule now, you should have heard them when Kleiner Perkins and Sequoia invested in "just another search engine" called Google, or when Kleiner invested in "an online bookstore" called Amazon. You should have heard them when Peter Thiel, Accel Partners, Microsoft, et al, invested in the obviously faddish and worthless Facebook. You should have heard them when Union Square and others paid a princely sum to buy into the no-business-model Twitter. And so on. Every time someone makes a big bet that most observers don't understand, the consensus conclusion is that these investors are obviously morons. Frequently, however, these investors turn out not to have been smart and bold.¬† The definition of "bold," after all, is doing something that most other people regard as dangerous or stupid. If everyone regarded the action as safe and intelligent, it wouldn't be bold. Yes, bold bets often fail. But sometimes they succeed. And when a truly bold bet succeeds, it often pays off well enough to cover any losses incurred in the failures. In other words, they call it "venture capital" for a reason. If your objective as an investor is merely not to lose money, there are many other vehicles and strategies for that. And if you're not comfortable with the prospect of losing money and looking and feeling stupid, you should never invest in tech stocks, especially early-stage ones. (As one analyst I've always admired puts it, "If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.") Second... before you snicker at any valuation made in a private investment, make sure you understand the difference between preferred stock and common stock. If you buy stock in a public company, you are generally buying common stock. If the value of the company goes down after you buy it, you will lose money. Therefore, the price you pay is very important. If you make an investment in a private company, however, you will generally be buying preferred stock.¬† Preferred stock is a different security than common stock, and it has a different risk/reward profile. The most important difference between preferred and common stock is that it is much harder to lose money with preferred stock. If the value of a company drops after you buy preferred stock, you will usually get all of your money back (if not more than all of it). If the value of the company increases, meanwhile, you will get all of the upside. Sometimes, depending on the terms of the preferred stock issued in a specific investment, you can even get a guaranteed return on your investment, regardless of what the value of the company does. Knowing the specific terms of the security that a private investor buys, therefore, is critical to figuring out how much risk (if any) the investor is taking. What does this mean in the case of the Snapchat investment? At the very least, it likely means the following: * Even if the value of Snapchat plummets, IVP and the other investors will still get all their money back under almost all scenarios. Only if the value of Snapchat drops below $80 million, the total amount of the investment, will IVP et al lose money. In other words, for Snapchat's new investors to lose money, the value of the company will have to drop by ~90%. Could that happen? Yes, of course it could happen. This is a speculative investment. But based on Snapchat's growth thus far, it seems very unlikely to happen. So, right off the bat, even if the Snapchat investment is plain-vanilla preferred stock, the investors have very little potential downside and a lot of potential upside. Also, it is possible that the preferred stock that Snapchat's investors bought also contains something called a "liquidity preference" that will allow the Snapchat investors to generate a guaranteed return even if the value of Snapchat falls. Often, in venture capital deals, preferred shareholders are entitled to exchange their preferred stock for a multiple of their invested capital before the company's other investors get a penny.¬†Sometimes, this term applies even if the company's value drops. In other words, a liquidity preference might entitle Snapchat's new investors to get 1.5 times their total investment before Snapchat's other investors get a dime. ¬†If this term applies even in the case of a loss of value, Snapchat's value could crash from $800 million to, say, $150 million, and Snapchat's investors might still be guaranteed at least a 50% return. (Under this scenario, if Snapchat sold for $150 million, the preferred investors would get $120 million--1.5x their initial investment--and the common shareholders would split up the remaining $30 million.) If Snapchat's value increases, meanwhile, the preferred investors will likely capture all of that upside. And if the liquidity preference is more than 1x, they'll get a bigger share of the upside than the common shareholders. The bottom line is that the risk/reward profile for preferred stock is entirely different than it is for common stock. It is much harder to lose money with preferred stock than it is with common, and preferred investors are often guaranteed a minimum return. As a result, the valuation at which preferred stock is bought is much less meaningful than the value at which common stock is bought.¬† Based on these two factors alone, you should begin to appreciate why the knee-jerk ridicule of investments like Snapchat is usually misguided. The investors who make these investments aren't stupid. They know the risks they are taking, and they have a lot less downside than an uninformed observer might initially think. Lastly, the logic that an investor uses to make an investment like Snapchat is often not apparent to those on the outside--because those on the outside are not privvy to the performance details and long-term vision of the company. Like a lot of other people, I was curious what Snapchat's investors were thinking when they invested $80 million in Snapchat. So I talked to one of the investors. I'll save the specific logic about Snapchat's upside for another article (check back soon!), but suffice it to say this: The investors who just dumped $80 million into Snapchat have a very compelling case as to why they think the investment could turn out to be a great one. The investors' logic is not obvious to those who haven't spent time analyzing Snapchat. But it is still compelling. Could the Snapchat investment fail? Yes, of course the Snapchat investment could fail. All investments can fail. But the Snapchat investment could also produce a very compelling return, one that ends up being many multiples of the price the investors paid. So don't get duped into parroting the simple, lazy logic of techo-chamber pundits when it comes to investments like this. All of the best investments seem stupid and risky when they are made. If they were obviously safe and compelling, everyone would make them. The people making these investments aren't stupid. They also generally aren't reckless. And they are very aware of both their downside, which is usually low, as well as their potential upside. Venture capitalists also employ a portfolio strategy ¬† They know that not all of their investments will work. They even know that most of their investments won't work. But they also know that, if they make enough smart, bold bets, some of the investments will work. And as long as the handful of investments that work do well enough, all of the VC's other investments can go to zero and the fund will still generate a compelling return. ¬† * UPDATE: Dan Primack pinged me to note that his comment was referring only to the checks written to Snapchat's founders, not the Snapchat investment as a whole. Dan's concern, which is perfectly reasonable, is that the newly rich founders, having already struck it rich, will now mentally check out, dooming the company. This is indeed a risk. On the other hand, given the limited percentage ownership that Snapchat's investors now have in the company, it's likely that they were willing to take this risk to buy a larger percentage. And I think it's likely that a liquidity preference (see below) will ensure that the investors will get their full $80 million back before the founders and other common shareholders see a return. My apologies to Dan for not making clear that he was not, like other folks, ridiculing the Snapchat investment as a whole.
The Federal Reserve's quantitative easing (QE) program involves the monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage bonds.† These purchases have helped keep interest rates historically low. But in the last few months, Fed officials have started talking about tapering QE some time in the near future. The bond markets have been going nuts, selling off in anticipation of the taper. And this has been causing interest rates to surge all over the world. One notable rate that's been going crazy are mortgage interest rates. "The average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage rose from 3.93 percent last week to 4.46 percent this week; the highest it has been since the week of July 28, 2011," said the analysts at Freddie Mac. "This represents the largest weekly increase for the 30-year fixed since the week ended April 17, 1987." Crazy. Fortunately, the markets have been able to absorb them. "Higher mortgage rates may dampen some housing market activity but the effect will be muted by the high level of buyer affordability, and home sales should remain strong," said Freddie Mac's Frank Nothaft.† "For instance, existing home sales in May rose to its strongest pace since November 2009 and new home sales were the most seen since July 2008. In addition, the 12-month growth in the S&amp;P/Case-ShillerÆ 20-city home price index for April of 12.1 percent was the largest since April 2006." Freddie Mac

Wall Street lore is always describing the relationship between bankers and cocaine, but the truth is there's a new drug in town. Adderall is taking its new position as the Street's favorite upper ‚Äî it's less of a party drug, and more of a 'cope with your job after the party' aid. So what is Adderall and why does it make people more efficient? We put together some facts on what this amphetamine (yes, that's what it is) does to your body. Yes, it can help you get through that Excel spreadsheet, but there's a more sinister side to this story. Canada pulled the drug off the shelves in 2005 because it was believed to be the source of 20 deaths over ten years, according to NPR. So know what you're dealing with.
Wikimedia CommonsBond yields have surged over the past several weeks as the U.S. Treasury market has priced in a tapering of the pace of Federal Reserve bond purchases later this year based on expectations for an improving economy ñ and maybe even a full halt to quantitative easing in a year's time, as Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke outlined during last week's FOMC press conference. That prompts notedly bearish SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale strategist Albert Edwards to pose the question in his latest market commentary: "Is the Ice Age over?" The "Ice Age," a term Edwards uses to describe a series of economic cycles characterized by "lower lows and lower highs for nominal economic quantities," driving a "re-rating of government bonds and the de-rating of equities†<U+0096>†each recovery bringing a partial reversal to the process and each†recessionary phase taking us to shocking new lows, both in bond yields and in equity multiples. Edwards doesn't think we've escaped the Ice Age. Instead,†he asserts that deflation risks remain high. He points to persistently low inflation, which the Fed has seemingly dismissed as transitory, and the crisis unfolding in emerging markets right now, which he says present a "good chance of a repeat of 1998 where a deflationary wave of manufactured goods washed up from Asia." The recent surge in bond yields was driven by a sharp rise in real yields, implying a sharply reduced outlook for inflation in the marketplace. Edwards doesn't see that as sustainable, and given his outlook for weaker economic data in the future, he doesn't see any way the Fed will be able to ease off the QE pedal. And that will eventually force yields back down again. "Indeed, let<U+0092>s put the recent bond sell-off into a longer term context. Bond yields at 2.5% still remain locked in a technically well-established bull trend that will not be broken until yields spike above 3.5%," writes Edwards. "Who knows, the 'feral hogs' may have their grunting way but by that time, with that degree of monetary tightening we will undoubtedly be back in deep recession and yields will be back on their way down again." (Earlier this week, Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher told the FT, "I do believe that big money does organise itself somewhat like feral hogs ... If they detect a weakness or a bad scent, theyíll go after it.") Here's the thrust of the Edwards argument: It is worth repeating the very simple point that an integral part of the Ice Age thesis is lower lows and lower highs for nominal economic quantities in each cycle. So, for example, in the chart below we see progressive steps down in each cycle†almost unnoticed unless you take the longer view. It is this process that drives the Ice Age re-rating of government bonds and the de-rating of equities†each recovery bringing a partial reversal to the process and each†recessionary phase taking us to shocking new lows, both in bond yields and in equity multiples. I do not believe this process is complete, especially as I do not see the economy as reaching exit velocity of GDP in excess of 3%. Indeed, growth is still anaemic and vulnerable. We note that, amid the carnage in the government bond market, implied inflation not only remains subdued but has fallen decisively. Maybe that reflects an acknowledgement that the economy is indeed nowhere near exit velocity. Certainly the divergence between the ISM and inflation expectations has been unusual and history suggests it is inflation expectations that eventually catch up with the economic reality ... And with events unfolding in emerging markets as they are, I see a good chance of a repeat of 1998 where a deflationary wave of manufactured goods washed up from Asia. Deflation risks remain high. But where does that leave us in terms of QE. I fully concur with the legendary Marc Faber who when asked during a Bloomberg TV interview if Bernanke meant what he said on starting to taper sooner rather than later, responded "If you say that if he means what he says, then you believe in Father Christmas. He said if the economy does not meet the expectations of the Fed in one years' time, they will consider additional measures. In other words, if the economy has not fully recovered by mid-2014, more QE will be forthcoming. As I said already three years ago, we are going to go with the Fed to QE99." I tend to agree with that view. The economic reality in the West will force further rounds of QE. And in addition do not forget one over-riding structural trend towards fiscal insolvency and unlimited money printing; the latest BIS annual report highlighted the fiscal Kilimanjaro that has to be climbed due to rapidly aging populations in a number of countries, most notably Japan, the US and the UK. "[Governments]†will take the path of least resistance, which is to print their way out of this looming fiscal catastrophe," concludes Edwards. "Marc Faber is right. QE99 here we come."
Now in a speech today, New York Fed President William Dudley made a special point of telling†investors expecting†earlier interest rate hikes ìthat such an expectation would be quite out of sync with both FOMC statements and the expectations of most FOMC participants.î So chillax, people! Good to hear, but should the Fed be doing its QE program differently?†Ashwin Parameswaran: Iím not opposed to the withdrawal of monetary stimulus but the stimulus itself. In particular I am opposed to the nature of the stimulus which focuses all its efforts on propping up asset prices. However, unlike most Fed critics who tend to be conventional ìausteriansî, Iím a strong critic of asset-price based monetary policy and an equally strong advocate for combined monetary-fiscal stimulus in the form of direct cash transfers to households. I support helicopter drops not just because it is fairer and more ìneutralî in its impact on income distribution than quantitative easing. I support helicopter drops because it is the parachute that prevents the hard landing if we stop quantitative easing. I support helicopter drops because it is the most free-market of all macro-stabilisation policies. Rather than bailing out banks and firms and propping up asset prices, helicopter drops simply mitigate the consequences of macroeconomic volatility upon the people. I support helicopter drops because it helps us build a resilient economic system as opposed to chasing the utopian aim of perfect macroeconomic stability. One form a ìhelicopter dropî could take is a Fed-financed across-the-board tax cut, a topic I recently discussed.†But to summarize: Ben Bernanke a decade ago recommended deflationary Japan pursue just such a policy, along with an inflation target. Adair Turner, former head of the UKís†Financial Services Authority, and monetary economist Michael Woodford also are in favor of the idea, coupling the idea†with a nominal GDP target.†Economist and blogger Josh Hendrickson†thinks the policy would be stimulative but worries†whether ìit would be politically feasible to have a tax rebate that is large enough to have the needed effect on the level of NGDP ó especially considering it would be financed through money creation.î And†David Beckworth†sums up: The economyís inability to reach ìescape velocityî is because of the shortage of safe, money-like assets. A Fed-financed tax cut (or ìhelicopter dropî) that directly delivered money to households and continued to do so until nominal GDP hit its pre-crisis trend growth path would be a very effective way to solve this shortage. I guess I would prefer the Fed for now continue its current program while communicating its intentions better by adopting an explicit NGDP level target. A second best might be the Kocherlakota Plan.
Successful investing requires you to do the most counter-intuitive thing in the world, something that totally runs against human nature and the fight-or-flight instinct that's been bred into our species over eons - being excited for down-markets and bad news. By my own informal estimation, I would say that 98 people out of 100 see bad news and stocks dropping as a sign they should stop investing and begin holding all their assets as cash. The other two crack huge smiles when markets begin to get creamed and prepare to buy. Those two are going to do better than everyone else over time because they are able to do what everyone else cannot. Carl Richards has an amazing sketch illustrating the mindset that the media reinforces of only buying when "things are good":  † The truth is, if your time horizon is long and you are saving a chunk of what you make each year, the very best thing you can do is ignore whether or not "the coast is clear" and simply continue to leg in to stocks. Not every purchase you make will take place at a great time, but so what? Won't mean a thing in twenty years - so long as you keep going. Fidelity is out with an amazing study I want to show you. †They look at 12 million individual 401(k) plan participants over the last five years and measure how important their behavior was to the recoveries of their retirement accounts: The S&amp;P 500 closed at 677 on March 9, 2009, the market bottom, increasing to 1,569 on March 31, 2013.2 Many preretirees, particularly those who were age 55 and older, were vulnerable to setbacks during the market decline. And yet, many of them saw their balances recover. For employed preretirees who have invested continuously over the previous 10-year period, average balances over the past five years increased from $169,100 at the end of the first quarter of 2008 to $255,000 on March 31, 2013, a 51% increase. Fifty-seven percent of that increase was due to market action, while the remaining 43% was due to net contributions (participant and employer contributions, less any withdrawals). For this set of 10-year continuous preretirees, the average employee contribution (excluding the employer portion) per contributing participant was $9,630 for the 12 months through the first quarter (Q1) of 2013, up from $8,410 for the 12 months through Q1 2008. While preretirees overall have recovered well since the financial crisis, younger participants who could afford to have higher equity exposures reaped even larger increases in balances. For 10-year continuous Gen-Y3participants, the average balance increased 145% between Q1 2008 and Q1 2013. For Gen-X4†participants, this increase was 97%. Here's the chart:  † Bottom line - behavior, ie continuing to contribute through the difficult conditions of the Great Recession and Credit Crisis, was about half the battle. Market performance did the half of the heavy lifting and those who did the right thing have ben richly rewarded for it. These simple investors don't realize it, but they have outperformed almost every hedge fund manager and smart-ass market-timer in the universe. Who's the Dumb Money now? Source: Fidelity
Getty ImagesThe Kansas City Fed's manufacturing survey is out. The headline index fell to -5 from last month's 2 reading, defying expectations for a rise to 3. The number indicates that regional manufacturing activity in an area that includes¬†Colorado,¬†Kansas,¬†Nebraska,¬†Oklahoma,¬†Wyoming, and parts of western¬†Missouri¬†and northern¬†New Mexico unexpectedly entered into contraction in June. Below is the full text from the release: Tenth District manufacturing activity fell modestly after last month‚Äôs rebound, although producers‚Äô expectations for future activity continued to increase. Some firms commented on production delays due to power outages, flooding, and shipment interruptionsfrom recent regional storms. Most price indexes posted minimal changes in June.¬†The month-over-month composite index was -5 in June, down from 2 in May but equal to -5 in April and March¬†(Tables 1 &amp; 2, Chart). The composite index is an average of the production, new orders, employment, supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory indexes. Production fell at both durable and non-durable goods producing plants, with food and machinery manufacturing particularly weak. Other month-over-month indexes¬†showed mixed results. The production index dropped from 5 to -17, its lowest level since March 2009, and the shipments and new orders indexes also fell markedly. The order backlog and employment indexes increased¬†somewhat butstill remain slightly below zero. Both inventory indexes edged higher after falling in May. The majority of year-over-year factory indexes improved over last month. The composite year-over-year index¬†increased from 0 to 3, and the production, shipments, and new orders indexes also rose. The order backlog index edged up from -15 to -10, and the employment index posted a positive reading for the first time in two months. The new orders for exports index increased from -7 to -1, and the capital expenditures index improved for the second straight month. The raw materials inventory index inched higher from -7 to -6, and the finished goods inventory¬†index also recorded a slight gain. Most future factory indexes increased further in June. The future composite index edged higher from 11 to 12, and the future production, shipments, and new orders indexes also improved. The future order backlog index climbed¬†from 9 to 14, and the future new orders for exports index posted its highest level in two years. In contrast, the future¬†employment index was relatively unchanged, and the future capital expenditures index moderated somewhat. The raw materials inventory index fell from 1 to -2, while the finished goods inventory index increased slightly. Most price indexes recorded minimal changes from the previous month. The month-over-month raw materials price index rose from -3 to 3, and the finished goods price index increased marginally. The year-over-year raw materials¬†price index was unchanged, while the finished goods price index posted a slight gain. The future raw materials price¬†index inched higher from 43 to 46, but the future finished goods price index eased somewhat, indicating fewer firms plan to pass recent cost increases through to customers. Below is what respondents to the survey are saying: Click here for the full release &gt;

LONDON/PARIS, June 27 (Reuters) - PSA Peugeot Citroen's founding family has offered to give up control of the troubled French automaker as it tries to revive plans for a closer tie-up with General Motors backed by a fresh capital injection, sources said. But any deal combining Peugeot with GM's European Opel division would face major political hurdles because it would bring more factory closures and job losses in France and Germany, people with knowledge of the discussions told Reuters. The Peugeot clan, one of Europe's three surviving car dynasties, turned with beleaguered chief executive Philippe Varin to 7 percent shareholder GM after inconclusively sounding out other potential investors including Chinese partner Dongfeng, they said. "GM faces the same overcapacity situation with Opel, and that's why PSA is trying to convince them to merge the two," said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are confidential. "The Peugeot family has now accepted that they'll lose control, so this is no longer an issue." The Peugeot family, which founded the company in 1810 as a coffee mill manufacturer, holds a 25.4 percent stake that commands 38.1 percent of voting rights in a group that is now struggling for survival. Both Peugeot and GM declined to answer questions about their frequent discussions. "We don't comment on speculation or rumours," Peugeot spokesman Jonathan Goodman said. Before injecting more cash, GM would need assurances that it had a free hand to cut production capacity as it took control of integrating Peugeot and Opel, sources said. SALES SLUMP Peugeot, its sister brand Citroen and Opel are among those worst hit by a European car sales slump that put a $1.8 billion dent in GM's 2012 earnings. The market is on course to contract for a sixth straight year taking sales to a two-decade low. For Peugeot, heavily dependent on its home region, the threat is to its existence. The company burned 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) in operating cash last year, and asset writedowns swelled its net loss to 5 billion. Peugeot's shares have fallen 77 percent over the past two years, compared with a 1.4 percent slide for the STOXX Europe 600 autos &amp; parts index. Its debt has been classed as junk by all of the main rating agencies since early 2012. CEO Varin has responded by cutting 10,000 more jobs, selling 2 billion euros in assets and negotiating a 7 billion euro state guarantee for financing arm Banque PSA. The company aims to cut more costs by pooling future car programmes with GM under their existing alliance - cemented by a 1 billion euro share issue when the U.S. auto giant acquired its Peugeot stake in March 2012. Earlier talks on a full combination were halted late last year as a French government bailout of Peugeot and its worsening cash position stirred misgivings at GM's headquarters in Detroit. Peugeot will need another capital injection and must lay the groundwork this year, people familiar with the matter said, even if the company sticks to its goal of halving operating cash consumption to 1.5 billion euros in 2013. Exploratory discussions about selling a 30 percent stake to a consortium led by Dongfeng Motor Group were inconclusive, the sources said, and would anyway have taken too long. Dongfeng declined to comment. "PSA will need to present a new industrial plan for people to underwrite a capital increase, and the only hope is GM," one said. "They (GM) are ready to inject more money if they can control the business, integrate Peugeot and Opel and rationalise production." PLAYING HARD BALL GM is "playing hard ball" by holding out for assurances that it would be able to cut plants and jobs at reasonable cost, another person said, adding that no plan is likely to surface before German elections in September. The U.S. carmaker has drawn criticism from some shareholders over the initial Peugeot investment. GM halved the book value of its stake in a February writedown. GM has no plans to put in more cash, Chief Executive Dan Akerson said last week, while leaving the door slightly ajar. "We don't have any intention of investing additional funds into PSA at this time," Akerson told reporters in Shanghai. "If we see something changes, we'll evaluate that." Walking away may not be an easy option either. GM's European turnaround plan draws on technology from vehicles such as the Peugeot 208 and Citroen C4 Picasso for future versions of the Opel Corsa small car and Zafira minivan. But approval for sweeping cuts seems unlikely in Germany or France - where the government last year condemned Peugeot over plant and job cuts that President Francois Hollande described as "unacceptable". As one of its rescue conditions, the French government appointed civil servant Louis Gallois to Peugeot's board. Gallois, a former CEO of Airbus parent EADS, declined to be interviewed for this report. Ministers understand that Peugeot needs a fuller combination with GM or another industry partner and now expect Varin to present a new plan within months, a French official said. While not "dogmatically" opposed to foreign control, the government remains determined to preserve Peugeot's French sites and jobs, he added. The government or a state-owned investment vehicle could end up taking a Peugeot stake if necessary, officials have also suggested. In the past five years, GM has scrapped a Belgian car factory and earmarked another for closure in Germany, where it has about 20,000 employees. Peugeot, which employs 77,000 workers in France, is shuttering its Aulnay plant near Paris and scaling down another domestic site. Its five French assembly plants ran at 71 percent capacity in 2012, according to IHS Automotive data, while GM's three main German sites were at 66 percent. Combining their European operations would require deep cuts to draw benefit from the considerable overlap between similarly sized and priced cars. GM sold 9.3 million vehicles globally last year and its French partner 3 million. Peugeot also ended 2012 with cash of 6.67 billion euros, excluding listed subsidiary Faurecia, and is expected to consume 2 billion this year after restructuring costs. Together with 2.4 billion euros in undrawn credit lines, that will leave about 7 billion in available reserves - but the real cushion is closer to 4 billion because Peugeot needs the difference just to operate. "The minimum level of liquidity they need is 3 billion," said a London-based auto analyst with a major U.S. bank. "You never want to use that up." At Peugeot's current market value of 2.2 billion euros, raising another 1 billion in equity would dilute current shareholdings by at least a third. The immediate effect could be reduced by issuing convertible bonds along with shares. "The only way it works is with a family dilution," said one source. Such an upheaval for the company would reduce Europe's remaining trio of car dynasties to a pair: BMW's Quandts and the Agnellis still reigning over Fiat. Chairman Thierry Peugeot and his cousin Robert, who heads the family holding company, both declined to be interviewed. ($1 = 0.7691 euros) (Additional reporting by Soyoung Kim in New York, Ben Klayman and Deepa Seetharaman in Detroit, Christiaan Hetzner in Frankfurt, Matthieu Protard, Jean-Baptiste Vey and Julien Ponthus in Paris; editing by David Stamp) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The British Geological Survey revised upward the amount of shale deposits its heartland sits on. According to a new study, the BGS estimates the UK is sitting on more than 1,300 trillion cubic feet of gas. The Wall Street Journal's Sarah Kent and Cassie Webber say that figure is more than double previous estimates. The amount of deposits is not the same as what can actually be recovered. In the previous estimate, the report says, the yield for the area studied¬†was thought to be equivalent to the Barnett Shale of Texas, which is estimated to produce up to 4.7 tcf of shale gas Here's the area that was surveyed: British Geological Survey The survey adds the area could contain as much as 2,300 tcf or as little as 800 tcf.
Reuters/Finbarr O'ReillyNew York Federal Reserve President Bill Dudley, a dovish member of the FOMC close to Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke's inner circle, is giving a speech in New York this morning. Dudley is one of many Fed speakers this week, but markets are more sensitive to his comments than others, evidenced by the way they just reacted to the release of his prepared remarks at 10 AM. Dudley's speech sounds dovish (i.e., oriented toward more accommodation from the central bank). After reiterating what Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said at the FOMC press conference last week about how it may be appropriate to begin tapering back quantitative easing later this year, and that there were improved underlying fundamentals in the economy, look at some of the other points he made: Again, no real revelations from Dudley that the Fed hasn't already said, but on balance, a dovish message for markets. Nonetheless, stocks got knocked down a few points on the headlines, and bonds are drifting lower after an initial sharp decline relative to price action earlier today. Gold is headed lower as well. The chart below shows the reaction in 5-year U.S. Treasury futures. Thinkorswim
Reuters/STR NewsPending home sales beat expectations rising 6.7% month-over-month in May. This beat expectations for a 1% rise. On a year-over-year basis, pending home sales were up 12.5%, beating expectations for an 8.3% rise. Pending home sales climbed to the highest level since late 2006, according to NAR. "Even with limited choices, it appears some of the rise in contract signings could be from buyers wanting to take advantage of current affordability conditions before mortgage interest rates move higher," Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist said in a press release. "This implies a continuation of double-digit price increases from a year earlier, with a strong push from pent-up demand." A regional breakdown showed that pending home sales were up 16% on the month, but 1% on the year in the West. In the Midwest, the index was up 10.2% on the month and 22.2% on the year. In the Northeast, the index was up 14.3% on the year, but flat on the month. And in the South the index was up 2.8% on the month, and 12.3% on the year. April's numbers were however revised down. Pending home sales were up 12.9% on the year, but down 0.5% on the month. This compares with an initial reading of 13.9% and 0.3% rise. Investors watch this number because it is considered a leading indicator of the housing market.¬† This looks at all homes where a contract has been signed but the sale is not complete.
ClinkleClinkle CEO and founder, Lucas Duplan, just raised the largest seed round in Silicon Valley history. Twenty-one-year-old Lucas Duplan just raised more millions than his age. The first-time entrepreneur and recent Stanford graduate (he finished a computer science degree in three years) has been working on a mobile payment app for the past two years. He's now been awarded $25 million from a long list of Silicon Valley investors which includes Andreessen Horowitz, Peter Thiel, Accel Partners' Jim Breyer, Intel, Intuit, former Facebook COO Owen Van Natta, Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff, the founders of Qualcomm and VMware, and many others. The kicker: The app hasn't launched yet and it isn't going to for a few more months. Duplan's 50-person team raised the entire $25 million ñ the largest seed round in Silicon Valley history ñ on a mere working prototype and a beta test at Stanford University. Duplan says his pitch deck didn't move VCs to invest but as soon as he showed them the app they were compelled to back him. He's also secured a number of patents for his technology. What is Clinkle, the wonder app that made investors open their wallets? It's hard to say. Duplan declined to share many details prior to Clinkle's launch, which is expected to be released on iOS and Android later this year. All he revealed was this: "Our goal is to completely modernize how payments work," Duplan says. "What we're trying to do is basically take your phone and have it for the first time be able to rival cash and credit cards. We've developed a way for consumers to download an app, no hardware needed, and achieve scale from a software point of view." He also said the name Clinkle comes from the sound change makes and its ability to turn into a verb ("Clink this!"). Also, the domain was available. There are many reasons Clinkle's $25 million seed round is shocking. First, Duplan is entering a crowded space where there are already clear winners infused with lots of cash, such as Square and PayPal, not to mention credit card companies like American Express. From Duplan's description, it's hard to see why Clinkle is different or easier to use than Square Wallet, which already lets people pay for items in stores dongle-free.† Second, the product hasn't launched yet. Normally investors give founders in stealth mode a few hundred thousand dollars to see if a startup has legs before writing a massive check. Third, this is Duplan's first company. He doesn't have clout like Sean Parker had before he raised Airtime's $35 million round, or Bill Nguyen had before raising $41 million for Color Labs. Furthermore, both Color Labs and Airtime failed spectacularly. If serial entrepreneurs can't make startups work with tens of millions of dollars pre-launch, can a young founder who lacks experience do better? A final worry: After raising so much money, does Duplan have a high enough percentage left in Clinkle to stay motivated and see it through? Clinkle/OutcastThe only hint we have of what Clinkle will look like is this screen grab.Andreessen Horowitz (A16Z), one of Duplan's lead investors, says he will have no trouble staying motivated. It also explained why $25 million isn't unreasonable for Clinkle. Clinkle was first introduced to A16Z by Diane Green, the co-founder of VMWare. She suggested Margit Wennmachers, one of A16Z's partners, meet with Duplan, and funding talks spiraled from there. Because so many people are invested in Clinkle, no one firm had to write a gigantic check. Having a lot of investors is also good for Duplan; as a first-time founder, he's smart to surround himself with industry leaders for guidance. Also, the payments space is a huge industry to take on. Duplan is going to need a lot of money to make a dent. "Even if you captured a small fraction of it, that's a very large endeavor," Wennmachers told Business Insider. "Money is the cornerstone of society," Duplan agrees. "If we couldn't trade it, we'd all be farmers. It's a really, really important area and we've seen how tech has made so many things better. ... But still we're stuck with a piece of plastic and 16 digits and pieces of paper. The margin for error here is zero. That's why you need so much money to do [this kind of startup]. There are fraud and security issues, and we're obsessive about creating the best product possible." Wennmacher says Duplan's app is brilliantly simple. His team has spent two years perfecting the technology and protecting it from a legal standpoint. The one screen shot Clinkle sent over looks just like a wallet with the option to select a credit card, cash or gift card as payment on the screen (see photo above). A16Z was also impressed by Duplan's go-to market strategy. Rather than going after merchants (Square's approach), Clinkle is launching on college campuses and targeting early adopters there: the students. College campuses are where apps such as Lulu and Snapchat are finding success and it's where Facebook famously took off in 2004. There are also fewer merchants to onboard if you stick to smaller communities like universities instead of entire cities. "Clinkle is very, very different from everything else out there," Duplan insists. "I think we've seen all approaches to date be very niche. Peer-to-peer payments online [like Dwolla and Stripe]. Others let you accept credit card [payments] from phones [Square and Simple]. The really big deal here is just a consumer downloading an app and having that app replace current cash and cards. I don't think there's anything else that will let you do that." We'll have to wait and see.
Everyone is still digesting the unexpected downward revision to Q1 GDP growth to 1.8% from an earlier estimate of 2.4%. High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan is convinced that the number is missing some information, and it's likely to be revised up next month. In a note today, he points out that gross domestic income ó †which takes into account wages and profits ó has outperformed GDP, which suggests there's something wrong with the GDP number.† Here's the chart: High Frequency Economics Here's O'Sullivan's comment (emphasis added): As noted above, real GDIógross domestic incomeóstill shows a 2.5% annual rate of increase in Q1, stronger than the 1.8% reported for real GDP. The differential was even larger in Q4, with real GDI up at a 5.5% pace, versus 0.4% for GDP. GDP was up more than GDI in the prior two quarters, but the net result is a bit more strength in real GDI than real GDP in the past yearóreal GDI is up 2.2%, real GDP just 1.6%. We suspect GDP has been undercounted. Tax receipts and employment growth have also suggested possible undercounting. The next GDP report, in late July, will include the annual revision.† One Fed economist has argued GDI is a more accurate depiction of economic performance, according to the FT's Cardiff Garcia. It†signaled an economic slowdown in the middle of 2007 even as GDP kept climbing, and early GDI estimates also produced more accurate reflections of the severity of the recession.
Assuming National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden is still actually in the "transit zone" of the Moscow airport, as the Russian government says he is, his options for escaping appear to be dwindling. Now that his U.S. passport has been revoked, Snowden needs temporary travel papers to go anywhere, assuming he can find a place to go. And even if he can get temporary travel papers, Jose de Cordoba and Jack Nicas of the Wall Street Journal report,†Snowden's options may be limited.† Yesterday, there were reports that Snowden had been given a "refugee document of passage" by Ecuador. Ecuador has since denied this, however, and says that it won't consider Snowden's request for asylum unless Snowden physically applies for it on Ecuadorean soil (the country or an embassy). There are also no direct flights from the Moscow airport to Ecuador. That means that, to get to Ecuador, Snowden will have to fly through a country that won't seize and extradite him when he lands. There are few countries that Snowden can fly through from Moscow to Quito without getting seized and extradited, however. Cuba, the country that Snowden might have wanted to go through, has an extradition treaty with the U.S. Although Cuba has ignored this treaty in the past, the WSJ team thinks Cuba will be more careful about thumbing its nose at the U.S. this time. There's a freight flight from Moscow to Senegal and then to Ecuador, but it's operated by Lufthansa. And Lufthansa has said it doesn't carry passengers on its freight flights. Snowden and his Wikileaks helpers might be able to rent a private jet to fly Snowden directly to Ecuador, but there are actually few private jets that can fly that far without refueling. The Gulfstream 650 and 550 can do it, and one smaller plane can do it with a light load and favorable winds, but all those planes are expensive. A private aviation expert told the WSJ that a one-way flight from Moscow to Quito would cost $212,000, all in. Snowden could defect directly to Ecuador in Ecuador's embassy in Moscow, but to do that, he would have to get to the embassy. Ecuador diplomats could pick him up at the airport in a car with diplomatic plates, but the WSJ says the car's diplomatic status could be revoked instantly if Russia wanted to intervene. Snowden could stay in Russia if Russia decided to grant him asylum. But given Vladimir Putin's public statements on Snowden so far, it seems that Russia would prefer to get whatever they can out of Snowden and then send him on his way. So that leaves the Moscow airport transit lounge. Journalists have been searching for Snowden in the transit zone, but they haven't seen hide nor hair of him. This suggests that he is either well hidden or has already been moved to another location (or never arrived there at all). Given Snowden's apparently simple escape from Hong Kong, it's certainly possible that Russia will just announce that they no longer have him and have no idea where he is--and it's also certainly possible that he's already gone.† But if he's in the Moscow airport transit lounge, it may be harder than everyone thinks for him to get to his new happy home in Ecuador or some other country that wants to stick a finger in the eye of the United States. Read the full WSJ article on Snowden's options here &gt;
U.S. futures are looking up ahead of the open. Earlier today, we learned that initial jobless claims dropped to 346,000 last week, and personal income jumped by 0.5% in May. If things stay green, this would be the third straight up-day in a row. Here's a look at the action in Dow futures. FinViz
U.S. Navy Photo Bill Gross, the bond king over at PIMCO, has just published his latest monthly investment outlook. He opens with a disturbing story from his days as a young sailor in the Navy in the late 1960's: ...A few years ago I wrote about the time that our ship (on my watch) was almost cut in half by an auto-piloted tanker at midnight, but never have I divulged the day that the USS Diachenko came within one degree of heeling over during a typhoon in the South China Sea. ‚ÄúEngage emergency ballast,‚Äù the Captain roared at yours truly ‚Äì the one and only chief engineer. Little did he know that Ensign Gross had slept through his classes at Philadelphia‚Äôs damage control school and had no idea what he was talking about. I could hardly find the oil dipstick on my car back in San Diego, let alone conceive of emergency ballast procedures in 50 foot seas. And so‚Ä¶the ship rolled to starboard, the ship rolled to port, the ship heeled at the extreme to 36 degrees (within 1 degree, as I laterread in the ship‚Äôs manual, of the ultimate tipping point). One hundred sailors at risk, because of one twenty-three-year-old mechanically challenged officer, and a Captain who should have known better than to trust him. We survived, and a year later I exited ‚Äì the Diachenko and the Navy for good ‚Äì theirs and mine. I think I heard a sigh of relief as I saluted the Captain for the last time... Yikes. Fortunately, Gross doesn't think that the bond market is a sinking ship.¬† Rather he believes that the markets have gone too far "[T]he 10-year Treasury ‚Äì may be as much as 35 basis points too cheap. They belong in our opinion at 2.20% instead of 2.55%," he wrote. Here's a summary of why he thinks this: "We may have reached an inflection point of low Treasury, mortgage and corporate yields in late April, but this is overdone," he writes. "Will there be smooth sailing tomorrow? ‚ÄúRed sky at night, sailors delight?‚Äù Hardly. Will you be able to replicate annualized returns in bonds and stocks for the past 20‚Äì30 years? Hardly. Expect 3‚Äì5% for both" Read the whole letter at PIMCO.com.
Flickr/Matteo PaciottiThe May reading of personal income and spending is out, and it looks good. Income jumped 0.5%, beating expectations for a 0.2% gain. Spending climbed 0.3%, which was right in line with expectations. The personal saving rate ‚Äî¬†personal saving as a percentage of disposable personal income ‚Äîclimbed to 3.2% from 3.0% in April. Overall, this is a positive report as the numbers show Americans are saving more even as they are increasingly spending.
Flickr / jedhakuroThe Department of Labor just released its latest reading of weekly initial jobless claims. Claims fell to 346,000 during the week ending June 22, which was basically right in line with expectations for a reading of 345,000. This is an improvement from last week's reading of 355,000. Overall, good news.
REUTERS/Noah BergerThousands of revelers fill Castro St. in San Francisco, California to celebrate the United States Supreme Court's rulings on California's Proposition 8 and the federal Defense of Marriage Act June 26, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Gold crashed through $1,300 days ago, and it's heading toward $1,200 today. The yellow metal appeared to be getting its footing earlier today, but the bottom fell out again minutes ago. Check out this intraday chart from FinViz. FinViz
LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's economy did not suffer a double-dip recession after all, but its recession immediately after the financial crisis was deeper than previously thought. Revised data showed that Britain's economy did not shrink in the first three months of 2012, and output was instead flat, the Office for National Statistics said following a major annual revision of Britain's economic data. That meant that the country did not suffer the two consecutive quarters on contraction which commonly define a recession - a relief for finance minister George Osborne, even if other revisions showed a darker underlying picture. Britain's economy shrank by 7.2 percent in recession immediately after the financial crisis, compared to earlier estimates of a 6.3 percent decline. Output is now 3.9 percent below its pre-recession peak, again worse than previously reported. Growth in the first three months of 2013 was unrevised at 0.3 percent compared with the previous quarter, but the year-on-year growth estimate was unexpectedly halved to 0.3 percent. Britons' disposable incomes slumped by 1.7 percent on the quarter, their biggest fall since 1987, and business investment also fell sharply. However, recent data and surveys point to a strengthening of growth in the second quarter, with the Bank of England forecasting a 0.5 percent expansion. However, the economy remains fragile and many economists expect the central bank to restart its quantitative easing asset purchases of provide other stimulus soon after former Canadian central bank chief takes Mark Carney takes over from governor Mervyn King on July 1. The ONS also released first-quarter current account data, which showed that Britain's deficit with the rest of the world widened unexpectedly. (Reporting by William Schomberg and David Milliken) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
By:† Peter Schiff Tuesday, June 25, 2013 This piece is excerpted from the June 2013 edition of the Global Investor newsletter. See the full version here. The Japanese stereotype of excessive courtesy is being confirmed by the actions of prime minster Shinzo Abe who is giving the world a free and timely lesson on the dangers of overly accommodative monetary policy. Whether or not we benefit from the tutorial (Japan will surely not) depends on our ability to understand what is currently happening there. For now most economists still believe that Abe has stumbled upon the magic elixir of economic revitalization. His commitment to pull his country out of the mud by doubling the amount of yen in circulation, and raising the nation's official inflation rate to 2%, had conferred rock star status on the formerly bland career politician. But just one year after his first critical raves arrived, the audience is heading for the exits. As it turns out, the Japanese miracle may be a simple tale of confidence easily gained, and just as rapidly lost.† In many ways the 75% nine month rally in the Nikkei 225 (that began when Abe was elected prime minister in September 2012), and the subsequent crash that began on May 22, is not all that different from the turbocharged rally, and spectacular crash, that occurred in technology heavy Nasdaq more than a dozen years ago here in the United States. At the time that Pets.com (the company behind the iconic Sock Puppet) made its IPO, other high flying tech stocks had racked up 1000% gains. While investors scratched their heads, pundits offered reasons why common sense no longer applied to the new economy. We were told that valuations, revenue and profits no longer mattered. And to an extent that now seems absurd, the investing establishment bought into the insanity. But then a funny thing happened, investors woke up and realized that they had nothing but a handful of magic beans that couldn't grow a beanstalk. When the fog lifted, stocks plummeted...Wile E. Coyote style. This time around investors in the Japanese market were similarly deluded by fairy tales. Leading economists told them that Japan could cheapen its currency to improve trade, use inflation to create real growth, increase prices to encourage spending, and drastically increase inflation without raising interest rates. In short, monetary policy was seen as substitute for an actual economy. Initially at least the economic data seemed to confirm the success of Abe's program. The leading indicator was the yen itself, which dropped like a stone. Given the widely held view that a weak currency is the key to economic success, the 25% decline in the yen was welcomed as good news. Soon thereafter, the inflation that Abe so eagerly sought began to materialize in various sectors of the economy. When the Nikkei reacted positively to these developments, momentum traders from around began to take notice, thereby creating self-fulfilling prophecy. But it's no great trick to weaken a currency. Any two bit economy could accomplish that objective. For a nation like Japan that imports nearly all of its raw materials it was inevitable that a drastically cheaper yen would to push up prices. However the rest of the plan, the part about surging exports and growing economic activity, has been much harder to achieve. In fact the data has been downright disheartening. The plunging yen has failed to reverse Japan's weakening trade balance which has declined for 28 straight months. The trend finally sent Japan into an overall trade deficit 10 months ago for the first time in 30 years. The latest data confirms that while the yen value of exports has increased, actual trade volume has fallen. While the broad economic data failed to impress, economists and investors were nevertheless hopeful that Abenonmics would eventually work its magic. But recently the bottom has fallen out in a way that should have surprised no one, but somehow managed to do just that. Beginning in April Japanese Government bonds began to sell off sharply. Previously, the Japanese government could borrow funds for 10 years at just 36 basis points. The truth is that the sub 40 basis point yield on Japanese Government bonds was the most important data point for their economy. At those levels, Japan needed to spend 25% of its tax revenue to service its outstanding debt. While that figure is high, most it is manageable given Japan's high savings rate.† However, with a national debt that exceeds 200% of GDP, the Japanese government could quickly become insolvent in the face of higher debt service costs. If rates on 10 year debt were to ever match the 2% of their inflation target, more half of total tax revenue would be needed to service debt payments.†† But the central premise of Abenomics seems to be that the Bank of Japan could push up inflation to 2% without raises the rates on long-term debt. To do this one would have to assume that bond investors would accept negative interest rates, even while a falling yen was eating away at principle and returns on alternative investments would be expected to be more attractive. Such an outcome is not consistent with human behavior.† As a result, in late May a strong sell off in Japanese government bonds caused yields to nearly triple to almost 100 basis points on 10 year debt. And while one percent doesn't sound like much, it was the rapidity of the ascent that got everyone's attention. This grim, but very simple, reality seems to have hit Japanese stock investors with a panic unseen since Mechagodzilla took aim at Tokyo. Knowing that even moderately higher rates could counteract any economic gains made by stock market or export growth, the faith in Abenomics has seemed to evaporate almost overnight. Sounds a little like the dot-com bubble, doesn't it? Any more rapid escalation in Japanese bond yields should tell us that quantitative easing and growth through devaluation is a cul-de-sac that should be avoided. Japan should be our canary in the coal mine. In the meantime, the drama in Japan is diverting attention away from more important shifts in Asia, more of that in our latest newsletter. † An expanded version of this commentary will appear in the June Edition of the Europac's Global Investment Newsletter, which will be available for download later today.† †† Peter Schiff is the CEO and Chief Global†Strategist†of Euro Pacific Capital, best-selling author and host of syndicated Peter Schiff Show.† † Subscribe to Euro Pacific's Weekly Digest: Receive all commentaries by Peter Schiff, John Browne, and other Euro Pacific commentators delivered to your inbox every Monday! To order your copy of Peter Schiff's latest book, The Real Crash: Americaís Coming Bankruptcy ñ How to Save Yourself and Your Country, click here. For in-depth analysis of this and other investment topics, subscribe to Peter Schiff's Global Investor newsletter. CLICK HERE for your free subscription. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital ª
BEIJING (AP) ‚Äî An American boss detained nearly a week by his company's Chinese workers left the Beijing factory Thursday after he and a labor representative said the two sides reached agreement in a pay dispute. Chip Starnes, who said he was "saddened" by the experience, told The Associated Press a deal was reached overnight to pay the scores of workers who had demanded severance packages similar to ones given to laid-off co-workers in a phased-out division, even though the company said the remaining workers weren't being laid off. Remaining workers at the medical supply plant in Huairou district, on the outskirts of Beijing, had said they believed the entire factory was shutting down, that the company owed unpaid salary and that they saw equipment being packed and itemized for shipping to India. Starnes said the workers' demands were unjustified. Neither he nor district labor official Chu Lixiang gave details of the agreed compensation. Chu said all the workers would be terminated, and Starnes said some of them would be rehired later. "It has been resolved to each side's satisfaction," Chu told reporters at a conference room at the plant in late morning. She said they had been sorting out paperwork until 5 a.m. and that 97 workers had signed settlement agreements. Starnes, a co-owner of Florida-based Specialty Medical Supplies, had quietly departed the factory grounds by the time Chu spoke, returning to his hotel in Beijing. "Yes!! Out and back at hotel," Starnes wrote in a text message. "Showered... 9 pounds lost during the ordeal!!!!!!" Police in Huairou district had made no moves to halt the labor action but guarded the plant and said they were guaranteeing Starnes' safety while local labor officials brokered negotiations. It is not rare in China for managers to be held by workers demanding back pay or other benefits, often from their Chinese owners. Police are reluctant to intervene, as they consider it a business dispute, and local officials typically are eager to see the matter resolved in the way least likely to fuel unrest. The labor action reflected growing uneasiness among workers about their jobs amid China's slowing economic growth and the sense that growing labor costs make the country less attractive for some foreign-owned factories. About 80 workers had started blocking all exits starting last Friday, and Starnes had spoken to reporters in recent days through the barred window of his factory office. Earlier Thursday, he said in a telephone interview that he had been forced to give in to what he considered unjustified demands. He summed up the past several days as "humiliating, embarrassing." At the beginning of his captivity, workers had deprived him of sleep by shining bright lights and banging on windows of his office, he said. "We have transferred our funds from the U.S.," he said. "I am basically free to go when the funds hit the account here of the company." Starnes told the AP he planned to get back to business, and even rehire some of the workers who had been holding him. "We're going to take Thursday off to let the dust settle, and we're going to be rehiring a lot of the previous workers on new contracts as of Friday," he said. Starnes previously said the company had been winding down its plastics division, with plans to move it to Mumbai. When he arrived in Beijing last week to lay off the last 30 people, workers in other divisions started demanding similar severance packages. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Chinese officials devised this tool to help it monitor the financial system evolved away from state-centric lending. ¬†This broad measure of credit activity. ¬† It is the total funds in the real economy generated by the financial system.¬† The gap between to two lines is the growing role of non-bank actors in the financial system.¬† This has been dubbed "shadow banking". ¬†It is a nice moniker, but it is not very telling. ¬†It is simply the non-bank part of the financial system, which itself may be a function of the increasing complexity of the system. ¬†It is the dis-intermediation of banks.¬† Chinese officials do not have as much direct control over the shadow banking sector as they do the banking sector proper. ¬†Officials were able to slow bank lending, as they desired. ¬†However, credit creation in the shadow banking system was unchecked. ¬† The liquidity squeeze that has seen rates rise sharply in China, and while they might not be rising further, remain at elevated levels, is partly meant or tolerated to rein in the non-banking part of the financial system. ¬†¬† The falsified exports to conceal capital flows and practices around wealth management products were different, but similar ways to game and circumvent the system. ¬†Officials, in part, lost some control.¬†The sale-and-buy-back scheme, that was banned last month, was one of the ways in which smaller financial institutions dealt with the inherent maturity mismatch in wealth management products that were attractive offered higher interest rates than deposits. ¬† Around 85% of the wealth management products mature 6 months or less. ¬†To get a higher yield the proceeds were invested in bonds. ¬†This is the maturity mismatch and the sale-and-buy-back scheme that was used to manage this is no longer available. Part of the increase interest rates in China may reflect the sales of those bonds in an illiquid market. ¬† Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
In 2012, Turkeyís stock market (as measured by the Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index) rose more than 50%1, posting one of the strongest performances of any global equity market last year. However, recent news of protests sweeping the nation has started scaring off some investors, at least in the short term. We consider turmoil to often be a natural part of change and development, and these short-term political disturbances likely wonít be the last. What we try to remind investors is the importance of remaining focused on the long-term opportunity in Turkey and not be spooked by short term issues.†Iíve invited my colleague Carlos von Hardenberg, Managing Director, Turkey, based in Istanbul, to share some local insight. Carlos von Hardenberg, Managing Director, Turkey In Turkey, what began as peaceful protests against the governmentís plans to redevelop Gezi Park in Taksim Square turned into riots met by police with tear gas and water cannons, creating public uproar. This unfortunate disturbance has spread beyond the issue of the park and into political discourse, as there is a fundamental political conflict in Turkey between those who want a secular state and those who prefer an Islamic-based government. The resulting turbulence is likely to continue in the short term. While many have been quick to criticize the government, there is a large part of the population that supports Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who seems to now be making efforts to calm the situation by agreeing to hold discussions with protest organizers after tensions began to escalate. The geopolitical uncertainty has caused a sharp decline in Turkish equities in recent weeks, unraveling what had been a positive start to the year. However, from a long-term point of view we remain positive on Turkey, which outperformed other emerging markets generally last year.2 Of course, past performance does not guarantee future results.† We are bullish on Turkey for a few reasons. From an economic and investment standpoint, we think the track record of the government has been outstanding, with policies conducive to attracting foreign investment there. The government has privatized public assets, and has been investing in infrastructure. Its plans include high-speed rail, a third bridge over the Bosphorus, tunnels, as well as plans to build what could be the largest airport in the world. Currently, investment sentiment in this regard remains positive. Turkey also boasts positive fundamentals. Its GDP has increased dramatically since 2002, and its banks are generally very well capitalized and more stable than in most parts of the world, including much of Europe. Interest rates are low compared with many other emerging markets. Turkeyís central bank cut its key interest rates by 50 basis points (0.5%) in May. The one-week repurchase lending rate was reduced to a record low of 4.5%, while the overnight lending and borrowing interest rates were cut to 6.5% and 3.5%, respectively. In addition, Turkey has developed into a very important trading partner with the EU and established a very competitive export industry that has seen vibrant growth in the past 10 years. This year, Moodyís Investors Service became the second international ratings agency to upgrade Turkeyís credit rating to investment grade. Moodyís raised the countryís sovereign bond ratings by one level to Baa3 from Ba1, with a stable outlook. The agency cited ìrecent and expected future improvements in key economic and public finance metricsî and ìprogress on structural and institutional reforms that Moodyís expects will reduce existing vulnerabilities to shocks to international capital flows over timeî as reasons for the upgrade. The recent civil disturbances in the country could undermine its economic outlook, however. Turkeyís central bank has been able to manage the currency. Inflation has come down significantly, from as high as 120% in 1994, (as measured by the consumer price index on a year-over-year basis), to just over 6% in 2012. Despite all of this, it is now important for the Turkish government and the prime minister to show that they are the leaders of all of Turkey to help the country return to a normal state. In our view, this can only be done by policies that support democratic principles such as freedom of speech, a free press and less government interference in the private lives of Turks. The EU accession process must continue and further reforms conducted. Strong Reactions Very often, we see the market over-reacting in situations such as the one we are in right now. So, as value investors, we are looking for opportunities to buy stocks where we see bargains. Some investors have reacted strongly to the unrest in Turkey, and certainly itís not something to take lightly. But we donít believe the current turmoil will derail the country and it hasnít completely derailed businesses, which continue to operate there. Of course, periods of volatility are to be expected not only in emerging markets, but all equity markets, and at times corrections can be healthy. Itís difficult to time it, but as far as Turkey is concerned, we are looking for potential buying opportunities there. Unless the situation dramatically worsens, we remain confident Turkeyís government will recognize the publicís right to be heard and continue on its path toward economic progress and growth. 1. Source: Bloomberg LP. Borsa Instanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index, priced in local currency. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Indexes are unmanaged and one cannot directly invest in an index. 2. Source: MSCI Indexes. All MSCI data is provided ìas is.î MSCI makes no express or implied warranties or representations and shall have no liability whatsoever with respect to any MSCI data contained herein. The MSCI data may not be further redistributed or used as a basis for other indices or any securities or financial products. This report is not approved, reviewed or produced by MSCI. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Indexes are unmanaged. One cannot directly invest in an index. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ìInvestment Adventures in Emerging Marketsî blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ìTrading with China,î ìThe Investorís Guide to Emerging Markets,î ìMobius on Emerging Markets,î ìPassport to Profits,î ìEquitiesóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î ìMutual FundsóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î îThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,î and ìMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ª
WikipediaMarkets aren't doing much early in the European trading session. England's FTSE 100 is up 0.3%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.2%. Germany's DAX is flat. Spain's IBEX 35 is down 0.5%. Italy's FTSE MIB is flat. Asian market's followed the U.S. sharply higher in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei jumped 2.9%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX climbed 1.6%. After a month of selling in the stock market, these upwardly biased moves are welcome. "This double play ñ of stronger data and less anxiety about the policy-driven liquidity paradigm ñ is essential for maintaining market tranquility," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian earlier this week.† "The hope is that, having re-priced in a rather disorderly manner, markets can regain their footing. The valid worry is that market tranquility may just invite selling by those that were sidelined in prior trading sessions by both price action and liquidity shortfalls."
