China Photos/Getty ImagesChina just released official statistics on Q4 2012 GDP and other measures. GDP rose 7.9 percent year-over-year in the fourth quarter, slightly ahead of economists' estimates of 7.8 percent expansion. Growth was up from 7.4 percent in Q3. However, China's official statistics often spark skepticism among analysts and investors who question the veracity of the data, which is why those observers turn to electricity data to see what's really going on inside the Chinese economy. BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ting Lu suggests†there is little reason for†electricity consumption to be manipulated, writing,†"China's local officials might be incentivized to over-report some macro indicators such as GDP and FAI, but they have little incentive to over-report use of energy including electricity as Beijing imposes increasingly restrictive regulations on energy use per unit of GDP on local governments." The latest data out this evening reveal that China's power consumption declined in 2012, but crucially, it turned around in the fourth quarter, confirming the indication of a recovery from the official statistics. Deutsche Bank analysts Michael Tong, Eric Cheng, and Kai-Ting Wong offered a detailed breakdown of the data in a note to clients following the release: 2012 national power consumption growth rate declined, while 4Q12 recovered:†Chinaís 2012 power consumption increased by 5.5% yoy to 4,960bn kWh, with growth rate decreased by 6.5ppt yoy. National monthly growth rate had declined since March 2012. However, thanks to Chinaís macro control and low basement of last yearís number, the consumption volume recovered since October. The national power consumption in 1Q12, 2Q12, 3Q12 increased by 6.8% yoy, 4.3% yoy, 3.9% yoy to 1,166bn kWh, 1,210bn kWh and 1,310bn kWh, respectively, with growth rate declining qoq, while that in 4Q12 increased by 7.5% yoy, representing apparent recovery. Power consumption for tertiary industry and residential users enjoyed fast growth: Chinaís 2012 power consumption for primary industry kept flat yoy to 101bn kWh, that for secondary industry increased by 3.9% yoy to 3,667bn kWh (with growth rate down by 8.3ppt yoy). That for tertiary industry and residential users increased by 11.5% yoy and 10.7% yoy to 569bn kWh, 622bn kWh, respectively, keeping at a fast growth.  Power consumption growth of heavy industry appeared a slow trend: Chinaís 2012 industrial power consumption increased by 3.9% yoy to 3,606bn kWh, of which light and heavy industry accounting for 608bn kWh and 2,998bn kWh, up 4.3% and 3.8% yoy, with growth rate down 5ppt and 9ppt yoy, respectively.  Power consumption growth in West China higher than Central and East China:†In 2012, power consumption growth in East, Central and West China were†4.4%, 4.9% and 8.3%, of which growth rate in West China 3.9ppt and 3.4ppt higher than that in East and Central China. Clean Energy power output soaring: In 2012, coal-fired power output increased†by 0.3% yoy to 3,911bn kWh. China had digested 1,066bn kWh of clean†energy power, up 28.5% yoy, of which hydro power up by 29.3% yoy to 864bn†kWh, nuclear power up by 12.6% yoy to 98bn kWh, wind power up by 35.5% yoy to 100bn kWh and solar power up by 414% yoy to 3.5bn kWh. After 5.5 percent electricity consumption growth in 2012, China's State Electricity Regulatory Commission expects to see 9 percent growth in 2013. MORE:†The 5 Chinese Economic Indicators That Experts Trust &gt;
China Photos/Getty ImagesWhen China announced better than expected trade data last week, a chorus of critics popped up again to question the validity of the numbers. Some used a 1930's mathematical tool called Benford's Law to argue that the data was unreliable. But China hit back defending its numbers. In fact, every time China unleashes its economic indicators we see this debate pop up. And with the country unleashing its first massive data dump for the year tonight, we thought it would be a good time to rerun our feature on the most reliable Chinese economic indicators according to the experts.
Weaker yen. Strong data from China. Positive vibes in the US. It all equals another huge session for Japan. Nikkei
Hopefully, this is a good sign. Two influential conservative columnists are giving the GOP some good advice on the debt ceiling. And that advice is this: Give it up, stop risking disaster, stop trying to change the US fiscal situation with just one house of Congress, and try to actually pass positive legislation and win some elections. Philip Klein at The Washington Examiner called it "Maneuver X": The main character in the 1994 film "Barcelona" describes a sales technique he calls "Maneuver X." When facing reluctance on the part of the buyer, he says, a salesman should step back and remove all pressure to change the dynamic of the situation. In practice that would mean: Consider, then, "Maneuver X." As modified to fit the current political environment, it would mean that Republicans remove all pressure. They should give Obama his debt limit increases without preconditions, and they shouldn't allow any government shutdowns. Meanwhile, Republicans should use their majority in the House to pass bills that actually do address the nation's problems -- its economic stagnation, rising energy and health care costs, mounting debt and so on. At the same time, they can keep blocking major new expansions of government. Now in a column up at The Washington Post, Charles Krauthammer basically says the same thing, that the GOP should give it up. The title of his note is: "A new strategy for the GOP." He basically advocates the same thing, and says: Want to save the Republic? Win the next election. Don‚Äôt immolate yourself trying to save liberalism from itself. If your conservative philosophy is indeed right, winning will come. As Margaret Thatcher said serenely of the Labor Party socialists she later overthrew: ‚ÄúThey always run out of other people‚Äôs money.‚Äù Will the GOP listen to this advice? In order for them to do so, they have to be convinced, as Krauthammer implies, that by stepping back and giving Obama what he wants, that they're somehow letting liberals hoist themselves by their own petard, and that it will become obvious that Obama is establishing a record of failure that will make him look bad.  The bigger point is that a growing number of folks are calling on the GOP to stop the kamikaze mission. This reduces the odds that we're going to trip the wire.
star5112 / FlickrUPDATE: China's Q4 2012 GDP release is out. Click here for updates &gt; GDP rose 7.9 percent year-over-year in the fourth quarter versus expectations of a 7.8 percent rise. Industrial production rose 10.3 percent year-over-year versus expectations of a 10.2 percent rise. Retail sales rose 15.2 percent versus expectations of a 15.1 percent rise. Fixed asset investment growth fell 0.1 percentage points to 20.6 percent. Markets aren't moving much on the news. Bloomberg BRIEF economist Michael McDonough tweeted an updated chart incorporating tonight's data release: Bloomberg BRIEF / Michael McDonough In a note to clients following the release, BofA economist Ting Lu said today's data won't provide Chinese authorities with any reason to up the stimulus: Today‚Äôs data will not change ongoing policy stance. Maintaining stable growth is the new leadership‚Äôs key policy mandate in 2013. For 2013, it‚Äôs very likely for the government to set 7.5% GDP growth target, 3.5% CPI inflation target and 13.0% M2 growth target (compared with the respective targets of 7.5%, 4.0% and 14.0% in 2012). Pro-growth policies in 2012 will be extended into 2013, and big-bang stimulus will be avoided unless there is another global financial crisis. Within 2013, policy will likely be marginally tightened towards 2H13 on concerns of rising inflation, rising home prices, investment overheating and financial system risks. We expect no rate changes (cuts or hikes) in 2013, and we expect the PBoC to deliver a stable interbank rate this year (so the number of RRR cuts or hikes is not important). The BofA economist sees more upside to growth from here, but expects growth to peak out this year, writing, "We expect¬†yoy¬†GDP¬†growth to peak around 8.3% in 1H13 and slow to 8.0% in 2H13. The 10.3% IP growth in Dec suggests that monthly upward momentum might be stronger than market had expected. Our suggestion to investors¬†is¬†to remain bullish in 1H13, but to exercise more caution in 2H13." DBS Vickers economist Chris Leung thinks infrastructure investment is still a bullish theme: Meanwhile, FAI has begun to speed up noticeably since September as project approvals quickened. Full-year FAI growth for 2012 was 20.6%. We anticipate a notable rebound beginning 1Q13 as new leaderships usually exhibit pro-growth policy bias. In addition, China‚Äôs strategy to accelerate urbanization calls for more infrastructure investment. Indeed, there are signs that FAI is already picking up in the non-transport infrastructure space (water conservancy, electricity, gas and water production). On the other hand, growth of real estate FAI is expected to remain steady in 2013 (2012E: 22.0%) as Beijing maintains a firm grip on the property sector. Leung concludes that the "slowdown has run its course." Below is a complete summary of all of China's big Q4 economic data releases, courtesy of BofA:  Statistics on electricity consumption, which are generally considered to be more trustworthy than the official economic growth statistics, confirmed that the economy rebounded in the fourth quarter. ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from a key release ‚Äì China's Q4 2012 GDP figures ‚Äì out at 9 PM ET. Economists expect real GDP to have risen 7.8 percent year-over-year in the fourth quarter, with GDP growth year-to-date estimated at 7.7 percent. On a quarterly basis, economists estimate GDP rose 2.2 percent in Q4. There are a few additional releases at 9 PM in addition to GDP: The reliability of China‚Äôs data has been a recurring topic. In recent months, while the recovery trend of Chinese exports has been largely consistent with its trading partners‚Äô data, the magnitude of the acceleration has looked stretched. Taking all the data surprises so far at face value suggests a stronger Q4 2012 and hints at an even stronger Q1 2013 than our initial expectation. We still think the recovery will fade by mid-2013, but the carry-over effect alone warrants an upward revision to our 2013 forecast of official GDP growth from 7.4% to 7.8%. Click here for an expanded preview of the release with more color from BofA Merrill Lynch &gt; We will have all of the data LIVE at 9 PM ET. Click here for updates &gt;
Republicans have argued and convinced themselves that they're fighting a popular fight on the debt ceiling. That's because, despite the fact that pundits/economists/everyone says a failure to raise the debt ceiling would be disastrous, Americans say they DON'T want it raised. 60% (!) say they don't want it raised. But here's the catch. Although Americans don't want the debt ceiling raised, and although Republicans are the ones against a clean raise, look what poll respondents say when asked who should get the blame if the debt ceiling isn't hiked, and payments for crucial services are halted. This is from a new NBC/WSJ poll. 45% of respondents would blame the GOP. Just 33% would blame Obama and Congressional Democrats. NBC This seems contradictory, of course, but it's really not that weird. People don't get what the debt ceiling is. It sounds like a good thing... a tool to keep the government fiscally prudent, which it's not. But people do seem to grasp that the GOP is on a dangerous kamikaze mission. So even though the GOP is ostensibly on the same side as people on the debt limit, they can't win by going all the way. If we wake up one day, and we've hit the "x-date" it will be the GOP taking most of the blame.
It‚Äôs hard to find much inflation in the US economy right now. As measured by the Labor Department‚Äôs consumer price index, prices increased by just 1.7% in 2012. The core CPI, which excludes food and energy prices, rose by 1.9%. Nor can much inflation be found in an alternate measure, the Commerce Department‚Äôs personal consumption expenditures prices index. It rose 1.45% for the twelve months ending last September. Excluding food and energy, it rose 1.58%. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke prefers the PCE price index because he believes it better reflects changes in consumer purchasing habits. But some skeptics say those government-generated statistics are nonsense. The numbers are skewed ‚Äî perhaps intentionally ‚Äî to show inflation much lower than what it really is. Instead of 1% to 2% annual inflation, prices have actually been rising at 10% a year, maybe even faster. Now, extraordinary claims should require extraordinary evidence. So the burden is on the inflation hawks here. As it is, the Labor Department has specifically and thoroughly rebutted many of the criticisms of the CPI, including charges that when the price of steak rises, the Bureau of Labor Statistics swaps it out for cheaper hamburger. Or¬†that Social Security payments are indexed to a CPI measure that doesn‚Äôt include food or energy. In particular, critics question how the BLS currently a) assumes consumers will purchase the cheaper of two types of products, and b) takes into account, for instance, that a $1,000 computer today is a whole lot more powerful than one 15 years ago. Those are just two of the modifications the BLS has made over the years in how it measures inflation. But what if BLS still calculated inflation the way it used to back in the 1970s? The agency studied that exact question in 1999, and found the new approach gives only a modestly lower inflation reading: Over the 21-year period of the study (December 1977 to¬†December 1998), the CPI-U-RS increased 141.2 percent, compared¬†with 163.9 percent for the CPI-U. The figures represent¬†an average annual increase of 4.28 percent for the CPI-U-RS¬†and 4.73 percent for the CPI-U; the average annualized difference¬†between the two measures is thus 0.45 percent.  In fact, there‚Äôs considerable academic literature suggesting that Washington continues to overstate inflation rather than understate it, such as this paper by Robert Gordon of Northwestern University: This paper provides a retrospective on the 1996 Boskin Commission Report, Toward a More Accurate Measure of the Cost of Living, and its famous estimate that the CPI in 1995-96 was upward biased by 1.1 percent per year. ¬†‚Ä¶ ¬† This retrospective evaluation suggests that the Boskin bias estimate for 1995-96 should have been 1.2 to 1.3 percent, not 1.1 percent. Current upward bias in the CPI is estimated to have declined from the revised 1.2-1.3 percent in the Boskin era to about 0.8 percent today. Yet the Boskin report, like most contemporary studies of quality change, failed to place sufficient value on the value of new products and on increased longevity. Allowing for these, today‚Äôs bias is at least 1.0 percent per year or perhaps even higher. One final reality check ‚Äî especially clarifying if you believe Washington is intentionally cooking the books ‚Äî is MIT‚Äôs Billion Prices Project, which uses an algorithm to track prices online, including most of the products and prices found in the CPI. It has inflation running at less than 2% over the past year:  Now, inflation might well be far higher in the future than it is today. And of course, the inflation rate experienced by any one individual may differ, perhaps considerably, from a broad national index. But inflation overall, much less hyperinflation, isn‚Äôt a big problem right now.
Thomas Fischler / FlickrChina will release a string of data tonight that could help strengthen the argument of an economic recovery. Chinese trade data for December already came in higher than expected, and we've previously explained how import data disappointed those arguing for a hard landing. Tonight's data dump includes GDP, fixed asset investment, retail sales, and industrial production that are all out at 9 p.m. ET. GDP Analysts polled by Bloomberg are looking for real GDP to rise 7.8 percent year-over-year (YoY), and year-to-date (Ytd) GDP to rise 7.7 percent. On a quarterly basis, it is expected to rise 2.2 percent. Bank of America's Ting Lu, who has been named the third most accurate Chinese forecaster, expects GDP to come in at 7.8 percent. Many argue that Chinese GDP data isn't entirely reliable and Chinese vice premiere a Wikileaks report quotes Li Keqiang saying the GDP number and most other economic indicators are "man-made" and "unreliable". Industrial production Consensus is for industrial production to rise 10.2 percent YoY, and for Ytd industrial production to rise 10 percent. Ting expects industrial production to rise 10.3 percent.  This chart shows the close correlation between industrial production and power consumption. Bank of America Fixed asset investment (FAI) Analysts polled by Bloomberg are looking for ex-rural YTD FAI to rise 20.7 percent YoY. Ting says year-to-date FAI should rise 20.5 percent. FAI accounts for over 50 percent of GDP and is an all-important measure of government spending. Ting says it should decelerate from 20.7 percent in November and that this indicator is noisy at the end of the year. "Overall, we believe FAI growth is on an upturn entering 2013 (we estimate 22.7% growth in 2013), buoyed by accommodative policy stance, supportive credit condition, improved business confidence and more expensive raw material prices. The total planned investment in newly started projects, a leading indicator of FAI, accelerated to 49% yoy in Nov from 35% yoy in Oct, suggesting FAI growth could remain steady in the coming months." Retail sales Retail sales are expected to rise 15.1 percent YoY and Ytd retail sales are expected to rise 14.3 percent YoY. Ting expect retail sales to rise 15.2 percent YoY driven by confidence in the economic outlook. He also said better home sales should support sales of home appliances and construction materials.
Boeing said 787s will keep rolling off the assembly line while it works to get the planes grounded by regulators back flying again. Boeing's newest, flashiest jet was grounded worldwide on Thursday after one plane suffered a battery fire and another had an emergency landing because pilots detected a burning smell. The two incidents prompted airlines and regulators around the world to ground the planes until a fix for the battery problem is found that satisfies the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration. It's not clear how long the investigation ‚Äî or the fix ‚Äî will take, but it won't be cheap for Boeing. Meanwhile, airlines that had sought the prestige of flying the world's most sophisticated plane are instead stuck with one they can't use. Poland's airline LOT said Thursday it may seek compensation from Boeing Co. for the grounding of its two 787 Dreamliner planes. The airline suffered the highest-profile embarrassment of any of Boeing's customers on Wednesday night, when it was showing off new service between Warsaw and Chicago. The plane's captain learned of the FAA grounding order while the flight was on its way from Warsaw to Chicago. The airline had to cancel the return trip ‚Äî and a ceremony at O'Hare that was to include airline officials and Mayor Rahm Emanuel. Passengers who were eager to ride the airline's first flight back to Warsaw ended up looking for a hotel room instead. Boeing currently builds five 787s every month. It hasn't delivered any since Jan. 3, before the first fire. Boeing Co. spokeswoman Lori Gunter said no deliveries were scheduled during that time. She declined to talk about planned deliveries. All Nippon Airways said its 18th 787 is due at the end of this month, but it won't take delivery until the 787 flights resume. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
There's no question that the Japanese yen trade is hot right now. Since September, Japan's currency has weakened nearly 15 percent against the dollar in September, and today, it hit its lowest level since June 2010. Investors are betting that newly-elected Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe can stir some inflation ‚Äì the likes of which Japan hasn't really seen in over a decade ‚Äì and revive the country's stagnating economy. Abe has been forceful in his criticism of the Bank of Japan and has suggested numerous policy measures the central bank could adopt to make its monetary easing stance even more accommodative ‚Äì threatening to rewrite the Bank's mandate if it does not comply. Each time Abe makes a suggestion ‚Äì like targeting the unemployment rate, or committing to open-ended quantitative easing ‚Äì the yen falls further. Reuters reported today that the Bank of Japan was weighing a number of options to make monetary policy more accommodative that it may introduce at its next meeting on Tuesday. In light of the report, it's worth taking a look at all of the policy options currently available to the Bank of Japan. Morgan Stanley put together this handy table to do just that:  The BoJ is reportedly only considering a few of these options at the moment. However, the central bank may find itself moving further down the list ‚Äì many predict that the 2-percent inflation target being touted by authorities will be difficult to reach.

As a way of encouraging entrepreneurs and investors to start companies in California, the state has long offered a tax deduction for those who start, invest in, and eventually sell companies. This tax deduction allowed entrepreneurs and angels to exclude 50% of any gain on the sale of "Qualified Small Business" stock. California's capital gains taxes are a high 9%, so the deduction reduced the capital gains rate to 4.5%. This encouraged the entrepreneurs to start and keep their companies in California, instead of decamping to lower-tax states. And, for many years, California entrepreneurs and investors have taken advantage of the deduction. But now the state has apparently decided that it no longer needs to encourage entrepreneurs to start and keep their companies in California. So it is eliminating the tax deduction. Far more startling, the state is eliminating the deduction retroactively--going all the back to 2008. In other words, anyone who sold their California company in the past 5 years and took advantage of the tax deduction is now going to have to pay the tax. With interest! A California entrepreneur named Brian Overstreet wrote about this tax decision over at Xconomy. Overstreet sold his company last year, which means he's going to get socked with the tax. As he observes, however, this absurd decision will have a far-reaching impact. And it might well encourage lots of companies to rethink locating themselves in California: California changed the rules after the fact, and that‚Äôs just not right. More importantly, the FTB‚Äôs radical action is going to send a¬†terrifying message that will have the unintended consequence of driving young, growing businesses to friendlier environments. That‚Äôs the last thing that the state of California needs right¬†now. The FTB‚Äôs retroactive sucker punch isn‚Äôt just about me. It‚Äôs about everyone in the startup community. It‚Äôs going to be a¬†very painful time for entrepreneurs and investors in California over the next few months as these potentially debilitating tax bills start showing up in mailboxes all across the¬†state. My company was not a¬†big, faceless corporation. We were good corporate citizens with a¬†small but vibrant, local workforce. We were the epitome of a¬†Qualified Small¬†Business. And we just got screwed. And so did¬†you. Read Brian's whole post at Xconomy &gt;
American ApparelThe past year has seen no shortage of controversial stocks. Hedge fund managers have culled their skill at taking positions, staging huge publicity campaigns, and generating a lot of discussion around the stocks they decide to bet on with high conviction ‚Äì or bet against. Other stocks are controversial because their businesses are particularly consumer facing, which makes their brands all the more recognizable to the average retail investor, looking to get in on unfolding trends in retail or social media. As a result, quarterly earnings reports from these companies are usually widely anticipated.
The New Zealand kiwi just fell sharply against the U.S. dollar after the country's consumer price index came in lower than expected. Consumer prices in Q4 fell 0.2 percent versus expectations of a gain of 0.1 percent. Year-over-year, prices were only up 0.9 percent versus expectations of a 1.2 percent advance. Naturally, one would expect the opposite reaction. There was one slight disparity: non-tradable prices rose 0.3 percent in Q4 while tradable prices fell 0.7 percent. Perhaps traders expect the weak inflation print to up the chances that the Reserve Bank of New Zealand shifts toward a more accomodative monetary policy stance. The kiwi fell from its level around $0.84 to a low of $0.8327 post-announcement: Thinkorswim
AmazonBack in November, top Wall Street strategist Dylan Grice announced that he was leaving his post at Societe Generale. As Grice prepares to move to his new venture, he put together a series of his reports that were important to him in his "intellectual journey". Among the essays were book recommendations he made from 2009 through 2012. Book lists, according to Grice, became a SocGen tradition during former co-head of global strategy James Montier's time at SocGen. We put together all 22 recommendations which include financial books that changed the way Grice views the world and some of his recent recommended beach and rainy day reading. It also includes a fictional title.
We've talked about why, long term, green energy faces tremendous obstacles in making a substantial market impact it's too expensive, and too far behind fossil fuels' existing infrastructure. But the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's wrap up of 2012's electric power trends capacity actually shows green energy ó especially wind ó made some very impressive gains last year. The U.S. installed a total of 10,700 megawatts of wind power capacity last year. That was 23 percent more than natural gas (8,700 mw) and more than twice as much as coal (4,500 mw). Solar came in fifth (behind nuclear) with 1,500 mw in new facilities. Here's the chart (with wind and natgas highlighted). FERC American-based wind manufacturers remain undercapitalized ó with the exception of towermaker Trinity Energy, which saw an explosive +60% 2H2012 ó so it's a bit difficult to trade on the trend. The big gust in new wind capacity was partially attributable accelerated installation ahead of the "wind cliff" manufacturers were facing †ó the government's tax credit was set to expire. But it has been renewed for at least year, which could mean the trend will continue to sail along. SEE MORE: Stunning Images Depict The Real Energy Of The Future &gt;
This morning, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau rolled out a series of¬†final mortgage servicing rules aimed at keeping homeowners off the street. We particularly liked the part where the CFPB made it harder for one arm of a lender to evict homeowners while another arm simultaneously processed a mortgage modification application. It's a practice called dual-tracking, and it was one of the harshest storylines to emerge from the housing crisis. Here's how agency director Richard Cordray outlined the rule in a statement Thursday: "... under our rules, a servicer cannot start foreclosure proceedings until the borrower has missed payments for at least 120 days.¬† This allows borrowers to get their affairs in order, understand their options, and apply for loss mitigation.¬† In general, once the borrower submits a completed application, the servicer cannot commence or complete the foreclosure process until the application has been addressed and the borrower has had time to respond." Turns out consumer activists aren't too jazzed. They say it won't do enough to protect homeowners, and that it should give people who aren't delinquent on mortgage payments the same protection and option to file for loan modifications. Here's a sampling of gripes we've received:¬† The¬†Americans for Financial Reform called the rule a "welcome change," but said the 120-day cap on review time for loan modifications isn't enough for struggling homeowners. "While the CFPB‚Äôs final rule is better than its proposed rule on this score, it still only partly addresses the issue, leaving borrowers vulnerable to unnecessary foreclosures. The rule is also too restrictive about the time period during which servicers have to even consider loan modification requests." Their thoughts were echoed by the¬†Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America, which issued a statement saying the rules won't come soon enough (they go into effect January 2014).¬† ‚ÄúCFPB is providing mortgage servicers advance notice to do their dirty work before the new regulations go into effect‚Äù, said Bruce Marks, NACA Founder and CEO. ‚ÄúWhen the new servicing rules go into effect in 2014 the landscape will be very different with many more communities devastated due to CFPB‚Äôs failure as the consumer watchdog. When it comes to holding the banks accountable and providing assistance to consumers, CFPB has sat on the sidelines as a no show.‚Äù¬† For the CFPB's full announcement and comments on the rules¬†go here. SEE ALSO: 13 money lies you should stop telling yourself by age 30 &gt;
British Prime Minister David Cameron has cancelled a key speech he was planning to give on Europe tomorrow, the Evening Standard reports. The decision came in response to the death of British citizens in the Algeria hostage crisis. The speech, which Cameron was due to read from Holland tomorrow prior to a meeting with the Dutch Prime Minister, was widely expected to announce a renegotiation of the UK's EU membership. Due to a number of delays, the speech has become a bit of a joke amongst UK politicos. People have been talking about it since September, and it was originally scheduled for January 22nd, then moved forward to Friday the 19th. It is now unclear exactly when it will occur, and it appears to be provide more indecision has been which the UK Conservative's rivals, especially the eurosceptic party UKIP, can capitalize upon. There's another problem for Cameron: Patrick Wintour of the Guardian says that a number of journalists have been pre-briefed on the speech, and seem to be sticking to their midnight embargo: Substantial extracts of the Cameron speech had been briefed to lobby and will be reported over night. Lucky for Cicero he never pre-briefed 
flickr/acameronhuffThe White House is currently valued at $294.9 million, up 7 percent since president Obama took office in January 2009, according to Zillow. Prices of homes in Washington D.C. have been up 13.6 percent for the same period. The White House was worth $275.6 million when the president first moved in. It's value peaked at $299.9 million in July 2006. In August 2012, it reached its "most recent low" of $271.1 million. Zillow determines the value of the White House using its proprietary Zestimate algorithm which considers a home's worth through public data and recent sales. In using this algorithm they looked at the size (55,000 square feet of indoor space, 132 rooms, 35 bathrooms, 16 bedrooms, three kitchens, and 18 acres of premium, downtown Washington, D.C. land). "They then considered the most expensive home sales in Washington, D.C., as well as other historic homes in the D.C. area recently for sale, and calculated the amount historic homes typically fetch over similar homes with no historical significance." From the press release: "Were a potential buyer to take out a standard 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage on the White House today (assuming 20 percent down and a 3.276 percent interest rate), the monthly payment (including taxes, insurance, principal and interest) would be $1,130,832, according to Zillow. If the Obamas decided to rent out the White House to another family, tenants could expect to pay more than $1.75 million per month in rent."
Medill DC / FlickrThere will be more financial crises in the future, because, well, history. Leaders dealing with those crises will no doubt look at the US financial crisis in 2008-2009, and the actions taken by Treasury Secretary. So the outgoing comments of Tim Geithner will be crucial historical texts. Part of that required reading forms today, as both The Economist and WSJ have published exit interviews with Geithner. On the issue of the bank bailouts, two comments will be critical for future Treasury Secretaries or Finance Ministers. First, people will always hate bank bailouts, he told WSJ: There's no explanation powerful enough to soften the inevitable fear and anger and resentment that's going to come with a crisis that did so much damage to the innocent. .... The paradox is that the things that are ultimately just in terms of making sure you can protect the average person from a failing system require you to do things that are going to look deeply unfair and unjust because you have to try to make sure to prevent a collapse. You look like you're giving aid to the arsonist. But that's not an excuse for inaction, and you can't get paralyzed by the notion that bailouts create moral hazard. To The Economist he said: Mr Geithner readily admits that his interventions have bred moral hazard, but says holding off for that reason worsens a crisis and requires even bigger interventions later. ìYou will end up having to socialise much more risk and [create] much more future moral hazard,î he says. ìYou have to design the crisis response to mitigate moral hazard to the extent you can, and then change the rules of the game going forward to undo some of the damage youíve caused.î Hence the Dodd-Frank banking reforms. The law became maddeningly long and complex in its passage through Congress. But it retains the features Mr Geithner considers crucial. It creates a mechanism for seizing and winding down big failing firms while limiting the governmentís discretion to keep them as going concerns. By reinforcing capital and liquidity buffers throughout the financial system, the law allows policymakers to be almost ìindifferent about contagion caused by one institutionî. So yes, people are going to hate you. But the longer you wait, the bigger your bailout is going to be.
The Fedís quantitative easing policy will be ìdisastrous,î according to Jim†Bianco, but prices for riskier assets will rise over the near term as a result.† In remarks last week, Bianco, the head of the Chicago-based economic†research firm that bears his name, also gave the US economy a near failing grade of C, and warned that inflation will be ìproblematic.î Assessing Fed policy and its effects on the economy and the markets was†the subject of a talk Bianco gave last Wednesday at a lunch sponsored by†the Boston Security Analyst Society.† ìFed policy will produce the worst possible outcome,î he said. ìIt will make rich people†richer, because rich people own stocks, and they will go up. And it will make a poor people†poorer, because it is not going to create jobs and they are going to pay higher gasoline†prices.î Letís review Biancoís forecast for the economy and inflation and how he believes the Fedís†policies will affect markets. A weak economy† Bianco called himself an ìold-schoolî economist who believes in leading, coincident and†lagging indicators. He cited several such indicators to justify his weak forecast for the US†economy. The economy is not in or heading toward a recession, he said, despite warnings from the†Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI). But he said that firmís leading indicator ñ as†well as the Chicago Fed National Activity index ñ both forecast GDP growth of†approximately 2.5%. Bloomberg is estimating 1.8% GDP growth in the third quarter and†only 2% for the fourth quarter.† Bianco said economists have been consistently downgrading their Q3 and Q4 GDP†forecasts, as well as forecasts for sub-components such as industrial production and†payroll. Operating earnings for the S&amp;P 500 were down approximately 1% in Q2, he said, and Q3†is expected to be negative as well. Forecasts for Q4 are falling rapidly, Bianco said,†although some analysts are forecasting a rebound. On the revenue side, there was 1% growth in Q2 and forecasts call for negative growth in†Q3, he said. That would be ominous, according to Bianco, because every time quarterly†S&amp;P 500 revenues have shrunk, a recession has followed shortly thereafter. That follows†naturally, since approximately $11 trillion of our $16 trillion economy comes from the sales†of S&amp;P 500 companies. Without growth in that component, itís unlikely the overall†economy will grow, Bianco said.
Christie's said "Prag 1883" is estimated to sell "in the region of $15 million" on Nov. 14. The title of the painting depicting swirling bright yellow, blue and red colors refers to the birthplace and birth date of Franz Kafka. Kafka was one of Richter's favorite authors. Before it was acquired by Mr. Cohen, the monumental 1983 work was owned by the Duke of Bavaria. Mr. Cohen is a self-made billionaire with a world-renowned collection of modern and contemporary art. He's the founder of SAC Capital in Stamford, Conn. The current Richter auction record is $21.8 million for his "Abstract Picture (7938-3)."
kfwk_lobo / FlickrMarkets hit new highs today in the wake of some strong economic data. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,596, +84.7, +0.6 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,480, +8.3, +0.5 percentNASDAQ: 3,136, +18.4, +0.5 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Intel Intel just announced earnings early. Click here for LIVE updates &gt; The company reported earnings of $0.48 per share versus expectations of $0.45, according to Bloomberg. Revenues were $13.5 billion versus expectations of $13.53 billion. Intel gave guidance for Q1 2013 revenue in the range of $12.2 billion to $13.2 billion versus the $12.91 billion expected by analysts. Intel was supposed to report after the closing bell, as is standard practice. However, earnings leaked a few minutes before 4 PM, and the stock popped into the close: Yahoo! Finance Right now, the stock is trading a few cents above its closing price. Below are highlights from the release: SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Intel Corporation today reported full-year revenue of $53.3 billion, operating income of $14.6 billion, net income of $11.0 billion and EPS of $2.13. The company generated approximately $18.9 billion in cash from operations, paid dividends of $4.4 billion, and used $4.8 billion to repurchase 191 million shares of stock. For the fourth quarter, Intel posted revenue of $13.5 billion, operating income of $3.2 billion, net income of $2.5 billion and EPS of 48 cents. The company generated approximately $6 billion in cash from operations, paid dividends of $1.1 billion and used $1.0 billion to repurchase 47 million shares of stock. ‚ÄúThe fourth quarter played out largely as expected as we continued to execute through a challenging environment,‚Äù said Paul Otellini, Intel president and CEO. ‚ÄúWe made tremendous progress across the business in 2012 as we entered the market for smartphones and tablets, worked with our partners to reinvent the PC, and drove continued innovation and growth in the data center. As we enter 2013, our strong product pipeline has us well positioned to bring a new wave of Intel innovations across the spectrum of computing.‚Äù Full-Year 2012 Key Financial Information and Business Unit Trends Q4 Key Financial Information and Business Unit Trends Business Outlook Intel‚Äôs Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any business combinations, asset acquisitions, divestitures or other investments that may be completed after Jan. 17. Full-Year 2013 Q1 2013 Click here for the full release &gt;
US Attorney Preet Bharara has been cracking down on insider trading rings.Insider trading has become more "socialized" as young white collar criminals become more connected online, an upcoming study has found. Montieth &amp; Co., a communications consultant group, on Wednesday released the preliminary results of a study exploring exactly how insider trading works in the "Facebook generation." The study focused on the 76 people charged with insider trading since Manhattan's fierce federal prosecutor Preet Bharara took office in August 2009. It found insider trading has changed dramatically since the 1980s, when one charismatic guy like the notorious Marty Siegel masterminded a scheme. "In today's intra-socially connected networking model, the power and influence is distributed more 'democratically' across a complexly interconnected network," a summary of the study stated. Unlike old insider trading schemes that mostly involved bankers, now more types of companies get in on the action ñ from hedge funds to corporations to "expert networks," which connect investors to people who can give them insight into various industries. It makes sense that white collar criminals might be more connected to folks working for other types of companies. More than half of 76 people recently prosecuted for insider trading were between the ages of 31 and 40, meaning a number of them were just finishing up grad school when Facebook launched. "They grew up in their professional lives with social networking as a model for interacting with others, for creating bonds and exchanging information," the study said. The Wall Street Journal first reported on the study Thursday.
More New Yorkers bought residential property in the fourth quarter of 2012 than they had in 25 years, according to a recently released report by Douglas Elliman Real Estate, probably over worries over the fiscal cliff. "There were a record 2,598 sales in the fourth quarter as looming changes to federal tax laws and general economic improvement elevated activity in an already improving housing market."  As sales rose, listing inventory plunged, falling 34.2% to a 12-year low of 4,749. The pace of the market quickened, with the monthly absorption rate falling to 5.5 months, nearly half the 10.8 months a year earlier and the second fastest rate since 2000, according to the report. "The market appears to be poised for some level of price appreciation in 2013, considering historically low mortgage rates that drive sales, coupled with a chronic shortage of active listings, which are at their lowest level in more than 12 years." But price indicators gave mixed signals in the fourth quarter‚Äîmedian sales prices slid 2%, but average sales prices rose 1.1%. Average price per square foot declined 3%, though sales activity was up 3.4%. The prices of 2 and 3 bedroom apartments rose, while the prices for studios, 1 bedroom and 4+ bedroom apartments fell.
The Japanese yen has captured a lot of investor attention since at long last it began weakening against the U.S. dollar in September. Investors are betting newly-elected Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will be successful in reflating the Japanese economy. Today, the yen is flying lower. Right now, it's down near 1.9 percent against the dollar on the session ‚Äì no small move in foreign exchange markets ‚Äì and it finally broke the key psychological level of 90 yen per dollar this afternoon. Today marks the first time since June 2010 that the USD/JPY currency pair has breached ¬•90. It's since backed off a bit from that ¬•90 level, but it's still right there after today's big rally: FINVIZ¬† Part of the impetus for the rapid decline of the yen today came from reports earlier that the Bank of Japan is weighing a number of options to expand its monetary easing measures at its next policy meeting on Tuesday. Markets anxiously await the announcement.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Brokers Are Using A FINRA Rule To Their Advantage (The Wall Street Journal)  Last summer the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) required that brokers had to gather more information about their clients before making recommendations. Turns out, brokers are now using this to ask clients questions about subjects like their age, investment experience but also about assets that clients are keeping to themselves or that are being managed by other advisors.  Investors Shouldn't Abandon Risky Assets Altogether (Financial Times) In a zero-rate world investors continue to search for real returns. In a Financial Times column Blackrock's Russ Koesterich writes that despite Washington's stalemate over the debt ceiling, investors shouldn't dump stocks and other risky assets. "Rather than abandoning risky assets altogether, investors should tap market segments most geared to faster global growth and less exposed to US consumption. Practically, this suggests lowering exposure to small and mid-caps and favoring large and mega-cap companies, which benefit the most when global growth accelerates and are the least sensitive to a slower domestic economy. ¬†"To benefit from global growth even more directly, investors can reduce their overall US allocation. ‚Ä¶Today, while US companies are still reasonably priced, they are relatively expensive compared with the rest of the world (the S&amp;P 500 trades at a 40 per cent premium to international markets based on price-to-book). Given the near-term outlook for slower growth, more volatility, and a debt-ceiling showdown, that premium may no longer be justified. At the same time, the rest of the world is in marginally better shape. Given the shift in relative fundamentals, investors should consider reallocating some portion of their holdings out of the US and into emerging markets, smaller developed markets and European exporters." Dylan Grice Wants You To Read These 22 Books (Business Insider) Dylan Grice who is set to start as Research Director at Edelweiss Holdings in March, put together a series of his favorite research reports from his time at Societe Generale. Among them were 22 book recommendations he made during his time there.¬† Manias, Panics, and Crashes by Charles P. Kindleberger, which Grice describes as a "history of financial calamity," is one of them. "It is the best single book on how financial markets actually behave and if I could recommend only one book to understand finance it would be this." Gold Is Going to $1,200 (Goldman Sachs) Goldman Sachs' commodity analysts called the end of the bull market in gold. They argue that the U.S. economic recovery will take off in 2013 and that will drive the sell-off in the safe haven asset. They expect gold to fall to $1,200 per ounce by 2018. CITI: This Rally Is Just Like The Ones That Came Right Before The 2000 And 2007 Highs (CNBC) Citi technical analyst Tom Fitzpatrick thinks the current market rally of the final rallies into the market tops of 2000 and 2007. He expects stocks to enter a bear market soon.¬† "I think in the short term, we still a little bit of legs here. If you look at the S&amp;P 500 ‚Äì we've just moved to this new high above 1475 ‚Äì it's actually very similar to the way we traded into the highs in 2007 and 2000. "So, I wouldn't be surprised that there is a little bit of legs here ‚Äì maybe even up toward 1495 ‚Äì but what there isn't is momentum. Most of the momentum came in the first move up from last year, and we're seeing a loss of momentum here similar to what we saw there." He also warned investors against putting too much faith in the central bank put. "They are keeping the put under the market, but I think we should respect history. If we look back over history, we constantly find that if what holds the market up is interference, if what holds the markets up is a policy specifically geared toward creating those moves, and you don't get the underlying sustainable dynamic and the underlying economic pickup, then it can hold it up for a period of time, but the market will eventually run its own way."
Courtesy of MSNBCOver the past few days, numerous conservatives and Republicans have come out and urged Republicans to agree to a debt-ceiling hike without any drama. Their argument: Threatening to throw the country into economic turmoil would bring horrific consequences not only for the country, but also for the GOP and its image. Amid the calls, vice presidential nominee Paul Ryan said today that Republicans have discussed a short-term increase.¬† The conservative pleas come from everyone from the Tea Party Express to former House Speaker Newt Gingrich to current members of Congress. On Tuesday, Republican Sen. Lisa Murkowski became the first GOP member of Congress to throw outright opposition at the party's strategy in an interview with the Fairbanks Daily News-Miner. ‚ÄúIf you incur an obligation, you have a responsibility to pay for that,‚Äù Murkowski told the paper. And similarly, Gingrich told CBS Tuesday that it would not be a winning strategy for Republicans and it's a "fight they cannot sustain." "No one is going to default," he said. "No one is going to allow the United States to not pay its bills. No one is going to accept the economic costs. It rallies the entire business community to the president's side. "And the fact is, the Republicans have two much better arenas in which to fight over spending: They have a continuing resolution which funds government, which comes up at the end of March. And they have the sequester, which automatically cuts spending unless it's dealt with. And those two fronts they can fight, and they have much less resistance from the average American, and it's much harder for the president to oppose them." Former¬†Wyoming Republican Sen. Alan Simpson, co-author of the Simpson-Bowles plan¬†told CNBC Tuesday that using the debt ceiling as leverage for spending cuts would be a¬†"grave mistake": I don‚Äôt think that would solve anything. I know they are going to try it, and how far you go with a game of chicken, I have no idea. But I can tell you ‚Ä¶ you can‚Äôt, you really can‚Äôt ‚Ä¶ This is stuff we‚Äôve already indebted ourselves.¬†If you‚Äôre a real conservative ‚Äî a really honest conservative, without hypocrisy ‚Äî you‚Äôd want to pay your debt. And that‚Äôs what this is, they are not running up anything new." And here's¬†Americans For Prosperity, the grassroots conservative group backed by the billionaire Koch brothers: "We‚Äôre saying calibrate your message. Focus on overspending instead of long-term debt," Tim Phillips, president of AFP, told the Financial Times. "Focusing on [the debt ceiling] makes the messaging more difficult." (AFP later clarified the comments in a subsequent statement that appears to reverse course somewhat.) The New Hampshire Union Leader, whose editorial board tilts conservative, said Tuesday that the debt ceiling the "wrong time" to push for more spending cuts: The Republicans view the debt ceiling increase as their one chance to squeeze spending concessions from a President who otherwise will never agree to reduce federal appropriations. The trouble with forcing that standoff is that Republicans cannot win it. Obama will stand firm, and they will have to flinch or shut down the government. Either way, Obama wins and Republicans lose more credibility, which makes it harder to force a showdown on spending on more favorable ground in the future. And finally, the Tea Party Express told the Washington Post's Glenn Kessler¬†Thursday that it favors a temporary hike in the debt ceiling, saying it was objecting to President Barack Obama's insistence that it be removed altogether. "There are cash flow issues that might necessitate a temporary debt ceiling increase, which would then be reduced when tax revenues balloon in March and April," the group said. "We are not opposed to responsibly meeting essential obligations." White House Communications Director Dan Pfeiffer took notice of the party infighting: Twitter/@pfeiffer44 Of course, that doesn't mean GOP leadership is ready to cave ‚Äî especially with some of the party's staunchest conservatives still signaling they won't agree to an increase without significant spending concessions. Some Congressmen are coalescing¬†around the idea that the Treasury could prioritize payments¬†to avoid default in the event that the debt ceiling is breached. House Speaker John Boehner also stuck to a hardline stance Monday, responding to Obama's press conference by saying the¬†"consequences of failing to increase the debt ceiling are real, but so too are the consequences of allowing our spending problem to go unresolved." But the fact that some respectable party members are pushing back ‚Äî combined with¬†polls that show 58 percent of Americans think the debt ceiling and spending cuts should be separate issues¬†‚Äî doesn't give Boehner a lot of leverage to pursue that strategy.
Last night, the FAA issued an emergency airworthiness directive for Boeing's 787 Dreamliner, after a battery malfunction led an All Nippon Airways flight to make an emergency landing. The FAA review will cover the design and manufacturing of the aircraft, and focus on its battery, which is believed to be the source of a fire in a parked Dreamliner last week in Boston. To deliver improved fuel economy, a key upside of the 787, Boeing uses a powerful lithium ion battery and five times more electricity and electrical systems than other jets. The Dreamliner is the sole plane to use this kind of battery as its primary backup power source, according to Wired, and the FAA only certified its use under several "special conditions." Lithium ion batteries generate more energy than other types of batteries, which is why Boeing chose to use them. But they tend to overheat, causing "thermal events" ‚Äî like fires ‚Äî according to Rick Newman at US News. University of Dayton professor Raul Ordonez told CNN, "These kinds of batteries are slightly more likely to cause problems." Dr. Eric Stuve, a professor of chemical engineering at the University of Washington, told Wired, "These batteries have flammable components, that it well known." In an airline industry that is struggling to make profits in the face of rising fuel costs, the promise of improved fuel efficiency is the biggest selling point of the Dreamliner, The big question now is whether the battery troubles are a result of flawed design or manufacturing. A fault in the manufacturing process would be relatively easy to repair. But if the design of the aircraft is flawed, Boeing would have to go back and make fundamental changes in how the plane is built, likely at a huge cost. For the time being, all of the 50 Dreamliners Boeing has delivered around the world will remain on the ground until further notice. Here's a full history of the problems with Boeing's Dreamliner &gt;
Park Hyatt Washington DCIt's a cliche that the debt ceiling is the last big threat to the US economy. But there's a growing meme that it's not, and that the "sequester" (the automatic spending cuts that are due to kick in on March 1) is the real issue. Here's what Eurasia Group analyst Sean West just told us. I think the debt ceiling is a loser for the GOP and they know it. My fear is not of technical or actual default. It's of continued short extensions--a continuous kick the can punctuated by moments of panic. The chance of either the sequester or a shutdown for a brief period is real and higher than the risk of cliff crisis ever was, even if it's still not my base case. He's not the only one who has this view. Goldman's top economist recently also said that the sequester is the number one risk. In a note discussing the Sequester, a Government Shutdown, and the Debt Ceiling, Jan Hatzius wrote: Among these three options, the sequester may present the greatest risk to growth in 2013 because it might actually happen--unlike a debt-limit induced default which is very unlikely--and because it would have longer lasting effects, unlike a government shutdown, which would be reversed quickly. A government shutdown, a debt ceiling breach, and the sequester all pose near-term immediate risks to the economy. But they're different, and have different implications. All eyes turn to the sequester, as hope grows that the debt ceiling issue will be diffused with enough outside pressure. For more Goldman analysis on the sequester, see here &gt;
BloombergSean West is the Eurasia Group analyst who nailed the Fiscal Cliff, predicting early on that they would have a deal, while others were skeptical. But he has always worried that the Debt Ceiling would be much harder. But lately, markets have been shaking off debt ceiling fears, and more conservatives (Newt, the Koch Brothers, etc.) have been telling the GOP to not plant a flag at the debt ceiling. We asked West his opinion on the matter now I think the debt ceiling is a loser for the GOP and they know it. My fear is not of technical or actual default. It's of continued short extensions--a continuous kick the can punctuated by moments of panic. The chance of either the sequester or a shutdown for a brief period is real and higher than the risk of cliff crisis ever was, even if it's still not my base case. There's no process for negotiation, incentives are not aligned and a lot of the deficit reduction low hanging fruit has been eaten--all of that makes it very challenging to see a straightforward path through the next 90 days even if there's no acute crisis. The GOP knows its debt ceiling strategy is a loser. The Continuing Resolution -- passing the next budget -- is still a big problem. The sequester is also real, as Goldman is warning about.
Another major milestone for the stock market: the Dow Jones Industrial Average today climbed past its highest closing level since 2007. Right now, the index is up 96 points ‚Äì or 0.7 percent ‚Äì on the day. Below is a chart showing the gains: Bloomberg, Business Insider SEE ALSO:¬†CITI: This Rally Is Just Like The Ones That Came Right Before The 2000 And 2007 Highs &gt;
2013 will be "meaningfully better" than last year was for initial public offerings, said George Lee, head of technology banking for Goldman Sachs. Lee made the remark in an interview with Peter Burrows of Bloomberg Businessweek at Flurry Source13, a mobile-themed conference taking place Thursday in San Francisco. Internet companies with a strong emphasis on mobile‚Äîso-called "mobile-first" or "mobile-only" players‚Äîcould play a strong role in this next wave of public-market debuts, Lee said. After Burrows pressed him for names, Lee suggested Uber, the on-demand transportation service where customers summon limos with a smartphone app, as an example of a company that could go public with a primarily mobile business. (Lee disclaimed any specfiic knowledge of Uber's plans.) The reason why we'll see more IPOs, Lee said, is an improving economic environment‚ÄîGoldman Sachs economists are projecting that the US economy will grow 2% in 2013 and 3% in 2014‚Äîand along with that, increasing CEO confidence. CEO confidence, with a concomitant sense of "boldness" and willingness to pursue transactions, is the key to IPO activity, Lee said‚Äîsince entrepreneurs must make a highly personal decision that they're willing to take on the burdens of running a public company in exchange for pursuing their ambitions for growth and impact on the world.
Gage Skidmore via FlickrRight-wing powerbroker Mallory Factor said Wednesday that the GOP should use the debt ceiling to force immediate government spending cuts, joining a growing chorus of Republicans who say they are not worried about the possibility of default should Congress fail to raise the debt limit.† "President Obama says that if they don't raise the debt ceiling, we could only provide essential services ó that sounds like a good idea to me," said Factor, a†conservative author and co-founder of the Monday Meeting conservative confabs. "Why in the world should government be doing non-essential services?" In an interview with Business Insider, Factor dismissed default panic as a manufactured crisis; if the U.S. breaks the debt ceiling, he argued, the Treasury Department can simply prioritize U.S. obligations to make sure bondholders are paid.† "These are scare tactics from the left to try and continue to get more money from government," he said.†"You can by law schedule what you want to pay first."† Although popular among Movement conservatives, Factor's position has faced increasingly vocal opposition from other Republicans, who have warned the party to abandon the debt ceiling fight and focus on other upcoming budget battles, like the sequester. And despite political posturing from House Republicans, Factor said that he believes the party ultimately lacks the political will to force dramatic spending cuts. † "The fundamental goal of Republicans and Democrats is to get themselves re-elected,"†Factor said. Republicans, he added,†"haven't lost their way ó they know their way, they have a map...The question is will they have the intestinal fortitude?"†
Google FinanceStocks are up.¬† And if this holds up, this would be a new post-crisis closing high for the S&amp;P 500. The rally follows a better-than-expected drop in jobless claims and a stronger-than-expected surge in housing starts. Click Here For Updates &gt;
An interesting study published in Science recently found that people frequently underestimate their future selves. When asked to score their current preferences, values and personality traits compared with how they felt 10 years ago and how they will feel 10 years in the future, people believe they changed more in the past than they will in the future. It didn‚Äôt matter whether the participants were teenagers or middle-aged; people just assume that their present selves are ‚Äúas good as it gets.‚Äù Investors have held a similar illusion about the stock market since the financial crisis. With the barrage of negative headlines and abhorrence toward risk, investors seemed to feel that equities would not improve going forward. This turned out to be a mistaken belief: Take a look at the last four years of U.S. market and gold returns. Since the beginning of 2009 through the end of 2012, gold had a cumulative total return of nearly 90 percent. The S&amp;P 500 Index also had a dramatic climb, with a cumulative return of more than 70 percent. In comparison, the iShares Core Total US Bond ETF increased only 22 percent on a cumulative basis over the same time frame.  As I explained in our Outlook Webcast, stock and gold investors should thank President Barack Obama and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke for these phenomenal results, as the Fed has been on a massive bond-buying frenzy during its three rounds of quantitative easing and Operation Twist. This spree has pushed the central bank‚Äôs balance sheet to nearly $3 trillion, reports the USA Today. The newspaper says this is ‚Äúmore than three times the size of the Fed‚Äôs holdings before the financial crisis‚Äù in the fall of 2008. All this excess money in the system, compliments of Helicopter Ben, has helped the S&amp;P to rise over the past U.S. presidential cycle. As you can see, Obama‚Äôs presidential cycle beat the average of all other presidential cycles going back to 1929.  The bad news is that many investors have not been participating, as they have acted on the belief that negative short-term headlines equate to dismal long-term equity performance. We‚Äôve frequently discussed how billions of dollars have been yanked out of the perceived ‚Äúrisky‚Äù equity funds into purportedly safe havens, such as Treasuries and bond funds. The chart below shows the continuation of this extreme behavior since 2006, which is the move costing these investors big-time.  In the media‚Äôs duty to report risks facing the average investor, some reporters seemed to have overlooked what I believe to be the greatest threat. As Bloomberg only recently quantified, ‚ÄúAmericans have missed out on almost $200 billion of stock gains as they drained money from the market in the past four years.‚Äù To be fair, year-end reporting has brought to light the considerable equity gains. Bloomberg Businessweek explained how ‚ÄúFive Brutal Years Teach Investors to Sit Tight,‚Äù highlighting several investment gurus, including Vanguard‚Äôs Founder Jack Bogle and Josh Brown of The Reformed Broker blog, who wrote about the wisdom of those investors who held tight to stocks. Just recently we received an olive branch indicating that the bond fund flows may be receding and reverting back to equity funds. CNBC reports that during the week ended January 9, $22 billion flowed into long-term equity mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, according to data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. This amount ‚Äúwas the second-highest amount on record,‚Äù writes CNBC. One week of data, though, does not make a trend. Research shows that retail investors may continue selling their U.S. equities through 2013. According to Goldman Sachs, an estimated $475 billion is expected to leave stocks. On the bright side, the ‚Äúsmart money‚Äù‚Äîcorporations who are engaging in mergers &amp; acquisitions activity as well as buying back shares of stock‚Äîare expected to purchase $450 billion, says Goldman Sachs. In addition, institutional investors, including mutual fund companies, foreign investors, ETFs, life insurance companies and pension funds, are expected to put an additional $225 billion into the U.S. equity market in 2013.  Another Olive Branch for 2013? Over the past year, gold stock investors have been fleeing the sector after seeing declining returns throughout the year. As of December 31, 2012, the FTSE Gold Mines Index declined nearly 14 percent over 2012. We‚Äôve seen this pattern before, as gold stocks have historically performed poorly during a U.S. presidential election year. This is data going back nearly 30 years.  However, the math suggests gold stocks may stage a significant comeback during 2013. Historically, during post federal election years, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver Index has seen significant gains.  It‚Äôs not only the seasonal aspect that drives our bullish opinion toward gold stocks. If you have not downloaded it yet, I encourage you to read our Special Gold Report that discusses the significant improvements that gold companies have made over the past year. Investors‚Äô misconception about future stock returns underscores why I frequently point out cyclical patterns and seasonal cues. I believe these trends help investors anticipate the performance of global markets and commodities before participating. As Winston Churchill once said, ‚ÄúA pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty.‚Äù For the new year, I challenge all readers to fight off the negativity, see long-term opportunity in global equity markets and, most importantly, remain invested. Your future self may thank you. If you didn‚Äôt get a chance to listen in to our webcast on commodities and global markets, you can now listen at your convenience. The replay includes the presentation that has, as of January 14, received nearly 110,000 page views on Business Insider.  U.S. Global Investors, Inc. is an investment management firm specializing in gold, natural resources, emerging markets and global infrastructure opportunities around the world. The company, headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, manages 13 no-load mutual funds in the U.S. Global Investors fund family, as well as funds for international clients. For more updates on global investing from Frank and the rest of the U.S. Global Investors team, follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/USFunds or like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/USFunds. You can also watch exclusive videos on what our research overseas has turned up on our YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/USFunds. By clicking the link above, you will be directed to a third-party website. U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this website and is not responsible for its content. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver Index (XAU) is a capitalization-weighted index that includes the leading companies involved in the mining of gold and silver. The FTSE Gold Mines Index Series encompasses all gold mining companies that have a sustainable and attributable gold production of at least 300,000 ounces a year, and that derive 75% or more of their revenue from mined gold. The S&amp;P 500 Index is a widely recognized capitalization-weighted index of 500 common stock prices in U.S. companies.
Flickr/Julian PoveyThe word "default" gets thrown around a lot in the media, and it's also used by The White House to describe what will happen if the GOP doesn't raise the debt ceiling. But this term remains controversial. Some argue that default should be specifically used to mean a literal default on US debt... not making an interest payment on time. Others argue that a default, even on Social Security, is a default. And they argue that missing a Social Security, in addition to being an economic calamity, would also have credit implications, because if you're a lender to the US, and you see the US missing major payments, then that tells you something big about the US' creditworthiness. This view was promulgated by Tim Geithner, back in 2011, when he sent a letter to Pennsylvania Senator Pat Toomey, on why "prioritization' was unworkable: As I also explained, however, the Treasury Department has reviewed your legislation and determined that it is unworkable and would not achieve your stated objective of protecting U.S. creditworthiness. In fact, the legislation would be quite harmful if enacted. A simple analogy may help illustrate the problem. A homeowner could decide to ìprioritizeî and continue paying monthly mortgage payments, while opting to cease paying other obligations, such as car payments, insurance premiums, student loan and credit card payments, utilities, and so forth. Although the mortgage would be paid, the damage to that homeownerís creditworthiness would be severe. Almost every time you analogize the US economy to a household, you run into trouble, and here Geithner's view is problematic for two reasons. For one thing, US debt doesn't trade like a "credit" (an entity for whom interest rates reflect risk of non-payment). US rates are about growth, inflation, etc. That's why, even though everyone and their cousin talks about how "unsustainable" US spending is, interest rates on US debt haven't gone up. And most likely, in a "prioritzation" government shutdown, there would be a rush into Treasuries, as growth would collapse. But beyond that, you have to appreciate the unique role that Treasuries play in the financial system. Treasuries are basically the definition of safe asset. Numerous regulations for all kinds of entities all around the world are premised around "safe" behavior having money int Treasuries. There is no asset that has anywhere near the size, liquidity, and safety as US Treasuries. If you break that (by having the Treasury briefly miss an interest payment) you've basically sent the financial system in the 9th Circle Of Hell. Nobody has any idea what would happen. Missing Social Security? Yeah, that would be bad. Missing a bond payment. You've basically lit a massive fire, and in the extreme heat, you've evaporated the liquidity from the financial system. It's a huge difference, and it's extremely useful to distinguish. Of course, even in a "prioritization" you could have a debt default, because tax revenue and income payments are lumpy, and the Treasury could straight up run out of money to make a bond payment. So this isn't too be cavalier about breaching the debt ceiling. It's just a plea to use language in the most useful way possible.
In a briefing with reporters today at House Republicans' retreat in¬†Williamsburg, Va., Rep. Paul Ryan said that the House GOP is discussing a possible "short-term debt limit extension," but that the "worst thing for the economy" would be a lift in the debt ceiling without any spending cuts.  Ryan suggested the lift in the debt ceiling could be extremely short, so that it could be addressed with another fiscal battle ‚Äî the sequester ‚Äî in March. Ryan also urged President Barack Obama to prioritize payments under the debt limit to ensure there is no default on the country's obligations. Some tweets from reporters on the ground in Virginia: Twitter/@daveweigel Twitter/@brianbeutler Twitter/@PostRoz Twitter/@sabrinasaddiqui The debt ceiling's "X date" is projected to hit sometime between Feb. 15 and March 1. On Monday, President Barack Obama said that he would not negotiate with Congressional Republicans, who he said were¬†holding "a gun at the head of the American people." House Speaker John Boehner was the first to suggest that the GOP might look at a series of incremental lifts in the debt ceiling¬†as opposed to a more long-term hike. That means there could be more frequent battles over the country's debt and spending attached to the debt ceiling. Ryan's comments marked his extensive comments to the press since he and Mitt Romney lost the election in November.
Reuters via YouTubeCiti's Tom FitzpatrickCiti's resident technical analyst, Tom Fitzpatrick, is known for his bearish calls and his favorable outlook for gold. Fitzpatrick was just on CNBC this afternoon, and he laid out an extremely bearish thesis on the stock market. The current market rally reminds the Citi analyst of the final rallies into the market tops of both 2000 and 2007 ‚Äì and he sees stocks entering a bear market sometime soon. Fitzpatrick told CNBC: I think in the short term, we still a little bit of legs here. If you look at the S&amp;P 500 ‚Äì we've just moved to this new high above 1475 ‚Äì it's actually very similar to the way we traded into the highs in 2007 and 2000. So, I wouldn't be surprised that there is a little bit of legs here ‚Äì¬†maybe even up toward 1495 ‚Äì but what there isn't is momentum. Most of the momentum came in the first move up from last year, and we're seeing a loss of momentum here similar to what we saw there. Also, we're seeing in the big picture, in the overlays we look at, our favorite overlays on the Dow Jones, that we are in and around the levels that we believe we are going to peak out in. So, while there is a little bit left to the top side in the near term, we're still on the same page we have been for the last three months or so, which is that we're going to peak out around these levels and see a high-to-low down move probably in excess of 20 percent. The CNBC anchors pressed Fitzpatrick on all of the positive signs we're seeing in the U.S. economy ‚Äì doesn't that run counter to his thesis? Fitzpatrick sees it differently. He replied: If you look at some of the positive signs that have come, it depends on the starting point. Housing looks good, unless you compare it to where we were in the 1970s, or where we were at the peak. The equity market looks great, up 120 percent if you compare it to 2009 ‚Äì¬†but if you compare it to 1999, we're unchanged, and we're below the 2000 and 2007 highs.¬† The economy probably barely grew 1 percent in the fourth quarter. We have a situation where it's looking like it could be quite sluggish with the tax dynamics and the debt dynamics in the first quarter. The overall picture is that we're up 5 points on the S&amp;P 500 since September ‚Äì since we've had QE3, or QE-infinity as we call it, as well as the Fed indicating they were going to target unemployment. So, to us, it really feels like we're in the stratosphere without any oxygen left in this move. Finally, CNBC asked Fitzpatrick about the so-called "central bank put" that world central bankers have given markets by committing to open-ended quantitative easing and ultra-low rates for years to come. Fitzpatrick doesn't think investors should put so much faith in that "put." He told CNBC: They are keeping the put under the market, but I think we should respect history. If we look back over history, we constantly find that if what holds the market up is interference, if what holds the markets up is a policy specifically geared toward creating those moves, and you don't get the underlying sustainable dynamic and the underlying economic pickup, then it can hold it up for a period of time, but the market will eventually run its own way. Let's look in perspective. Since 2009, we've had a number of double-digit down moves, including the 22 percent move down in 2010, and two close-to-10-percent moves down last year. So, I think we sometimes have to divorce the underlying equity market from the underlying economy, and in that instance I think, at this point in time, the only thing that's really driving the market up has been the constant actions by the central banks, as you've said. Wall Street has been murmuring about a selloff sometime in the first quarter. Most view it as a healthy correction after the recent rally. However, Fitzpatrick's call that stocks are about to enter a bear market is decidedly more bearish.
Markets favor large, straight-forward banks at the expense of complex ones, according to the director of research at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. In a new report called "Leveling The Playing Field," Harvey Rosenblum writes that too-big-to-fail banks still "pose a clear and present danger" thanks in part to "favorable government policies." He also includes a chart showing that being too-complex-to-fail may not be good for business either. He looks at the price-book ratios of 12 large-cap banks, which he divides into two categories: those with assets greater than $100 billion in assets and predominantly "driven by commercial/retail banking activities," and those with more than $100 billion in assets more focused on "global banking or investment services and management." Here's the result: Dallas Fed Rosenblum actually draws a broader conclusion: "Looking at the largest U.S. banking companies, recent stock prices suggest that markets have a gloomy view of bigness."
Car sales sank 13.9% in 2012, from a lousy 2011; sales by its native automakers plunged even more: PSA PeugeotCitro√´n down 16.6%, Renault Group down 19.8%. Now home sales are grinding to a halt. And the finger-pointing has already started. In the lofty realm of apartments in Paris that are valued at ‚Ç¨2 million or higher‚Äî‚Ç¨2 million doesn‚Äôt buy all that much in Paris anymore‚Äîa game of chicken is apparently transpiring. The number of transactions crashed by 42% in 2012. Barnes, a British real estate group that specializes in high-end properties in France and certain tony locations elsewhere, based its study on data gleaned from lawyers (notaires) who engage in real estate transactions. Prices of high-end homes in Paris dropped by 10-15%. For properties under ‚Ç¨2 million, transactions screeched lower by 28%, but prices remained stable. The study blames ‚Äúthe confluence of the euro crisis, the elections, and taxation.‚Äù Harsh words. ‚ÄúElections,‚Äù of course, refers to the events last summer that elevated Socialist Fran√ßois Hollande to President of France and that put the Socialist Party in control of parliament. ‚ÄúTaxation‚Äù refers to the layers of new taxes that they have since proposed, debated, and passed, though one of them, the 75%-income-tax bracket, has been knocked out in court (a more legally acceptable version may soon rise from the ashes). For the rich, the climate has become hostile, the rhetoric poisonous. So they‚Äôre bailing out en masse, and not just the super-rich [here is one of my posts on that lurid topic.... ‚ÄúTrench Warfare‚Äù Or ‚ÄúCivil War‚Äù Over Confiscatory Taxes In¬†France]. These unfortunate circumstances‚Äîthe rich bailing out‚Äî‚Äùincited sellers to speed up the process of putting properties on sale, just when there are few buyers,‚Äù Barnes reported gloomily. Optimism is hissing out of the French real estate bubble. For 2013, Barnes sees a market that remains ‚Äúhesitant‚Äù during the first quarter of 2013, ‚Äúwith a low level of transactions,‚Äù that would gradually recover, somehow, with a ‚Äúslow correction in prices‚Äù‚Äîrather than a sudden correction, or a crash even. Other industry insiders see darker clouds on the horizon. ‚ÄúSellers still haven‚Äôt understood that they have to lower their asking prices drastically, even though prices in Paris have already fallen more than 10%,‚Äù said Philippe Chevalier, CEO of Emile Garcin, another high-end real estate outfit. He blamed foreign buyers, or rather the sudden scarcity thereof‚Äîforeign, because few French can still afford to buy a nice home in their capital. They‚Äôve been effectively priced out of the market. But foreign buyers have gotten cold feet, he said, due to the ‚Äúaccumulation of tax pressures on real estate.‚Äù And not just in Paris. In the ‚Äúprovinces‚Äù‚Äîoutside the metro area of Paris‚Äîsales of existing homes during the third quarter plummeted 20% year over year, accelerating from the 16% decline of the second quarter (PDF, released January 10). And new homes sales in France plunged 25% in the third quarter, a dizzying acceleration from the second quarter‚Äôs 14% decline. Yet, prices in France, at least in the third quarter last year, haven‚Äôt budged much to the downside as sellers are still clinging to the hope‚Äîproven illusory in every real-estate bust so far‚Äîthat this too shall pass. And despite mortgage rates that averaged 3.31% in November over an average term of 208 months, home mortgage originations plunged 32.6% from prior year. The Economist stuck its finger into it‚Äîwith a study of international real estate prices. It wasn‚Äôt aimed at France directly, unlike some of its other articles. But it hit France over the head. The study used two measures and compared them to averages going back to 1975: the price-to-rent ratio and the price-to-disposable-income-per-capita ratio. It found that French real estate was massively overvalued: by 50% based on the price-to-rent ratio, behind Canada (78%), Hong Kong, (69%), and Singapore (57%); and by 35%, based on disposable income, just ahead of Canada (34%). It made France the most overvalued real estate market in the world based on disposable income, and the fourth most overvalued one based on rents. Overvalued housing in a teetering economy: bon app√©tit. And so, Hollande and Prime Minister Ayrault have become more unpopular than ever before. But¬†the poll was shoved into the background by France‚Äôs bombing campaign in Mali‚Äîwhich released an avalanche of positive comments and support from all sides, at least in France. With impeccable timing. Read.... A War to Rescue the French Government‚Äôs from its Descent into Unpopularity¬†Hell.
FREDYesterday we told you how California came back from the dead. It's a particularly impressive story given how busted California's housing market got became. Parts of it still are (three major cities filed for bankruptcy last year alone). But housing is a local story. And California is pretty big. So even as weaknesses persist in the state's hardest-hit areas, some cities have recently come roaring back. San Francisco (green line) and Los Angeles (red line) have both seen their home price rise faster than the national average, as measured by the Case-Shiller's 20-city index (blue line). The real estate services site Redfin recently polled its agents on which neighborhoods or cities would be the most up-and-coming in 2013. Of the cities nominated, Redfin ranked them considering three categories: change in on-market listings, sales volume, and median price per square foot.¬† This yielded a list of 10 neighborhoods set to break out this year. Eight were in California. We compiled Redfin's stats and detailed a representitive aspect of each neighborhood's attraction in the following presentation.
BloombergTV star Stephanie Ruhle is pregnant! The former Wall Streeter and anchor of Market Makers and Lunch Money will be having a bouncing baby girl in April. "I've spent 14 years on a trading floor of boys. I've got two at home, plus my husband," Ruhle told Business Insider. "One of the best parts about coming to Bloomberg was finally being surrounded by great women and now I'll be adding another one to the mix since I'm expecting a baby girl in April." Best of luck Stephanie!
Last night, the FAA issued an emergency airworthiness directive, requiring American airlines to ground their fleets of Boeing's 787 Dreamliner passenger jet. The European Aviation Safety Agency and other airlines soon followed suit. Now all of the 50 Dreamliners Boeing has delivered around the world will remain on the ground until further notice. This is not the first time Boeing has gotten in trouble with the FAA. In 1979, the aircraft maker's DC-10 lost its certification for about a month after a crash that killed all 271 people on board, and two on the ground. Other planes from Airbus and McDonnell Douglas (which merged with Boeing in 1997) have had their problems as well over the years. In a report on Boeing today, Citi analyst Jason Gursky included a brief history of aircraft groundings by the FAA and individual airlines: In 1979, the FAA grounded the DC-10 &amp; revoked its type certificate for ~1 month after a tragic crash in Chicago (airline maintenance was at fault). In 2008, AA grounded its MD-80s to fix wiring. In Nov 2010, Qantas grounded its A380 fleet after a mid-air engine explosion (the A380s were grounded until Jan 11). Also in Nov, Boeing grounded its 787 test fleet after a mid-air fire (BA shares fell 3% in response &amp; flight tests were grounded for 2 months). In Feb 2011, United grounded its 757 fleet to allow for maintenance checks that took 60-90 minutes. Last year, American grounded some 757s to fix loose seats. Also last year, the NTSB recommended that GEnx-powered 787s and 747-8s be grounded to allow for inspections. We note the FAA has previously come under heat for not being quick enough to ground planes and instead relying on operators self-reporting. The FAA review of the Dreamliner will address the risk of the jet's lithium ion batteries catching fire, one of many reported problems that have plagued the Dreamliner in recent weeks. The administration has provided no timeline for how long the planes will be kept on the ground. Here's a history of the problems with Boeing's Dreamliner &gt;
Flickr / Laura4SmithMillions of Americans flock to the doctor every year for a general check-up, often called a physical. The idea is simple: seeing a doctor allows a patient to ensure he or she is healthy, and if not, these annual visits enable a doctor to catch anything going wrong before it becomes too deleterious to a patientís health. But the results of an extensive study performed by the Nordic Cochrane Center in Denmark suggest that not only do check-ups fail to improve health outcomes, they also contribute to the rising cost of care. In JAMA Internal Medicine, Dr. Allan Prochazka and Dr. Tanner Caverly write, ìGeneral health checks do no improve important outcomes and are unlikely to ever do so based on the pooled results of this meta-analysis spanning decades of experience.î Doctors performed about 74 million check-ups in 2009, and the Center for Disease Control and Prevention confirms general medical exams remain the number one reason why Americans visit the doctorís office. But the study indicated that check-ups have no significant effect on total mortality, cardiovascular mortality, cancer mortality, and hospitalizations. However, these general health examinations do contribute to Americaís (over) spending on health care, which is the highest per capita in the world. Dr. Prochazka argues the spending that occurs during and as a result of these check is often wasteful: During these health checks, an estimated $322 million is spent annually on laboratory tests that no guideline groups recommendÖThe cost of follow-up biopsies of normal breasts triggered by false-positive mammogram results alone is probably in the range of $14 to $70 billion annually. It is likely that follow-up testing from general health checks substantially contributes to the estimated $210 billion in annual spending on unnecessary medical services. Incidental Economist Aaron Carroll, who presented an excerpt of the paper this morning, argues there is a need for an attitude shift regarding the value of check-ups, writing ìThe authors correctly note that changing peopleís assumptions about checkups will be unbelievably hard. That doesnít mean we shouldnít do it.î You can find the whole article here.
APNews is just crossing the wires that the Bank of Japan is considering open-ended asset buying, according to sources in a Reuters report. The Reuters report cites "sources familiar with the BoJ's thinking." Below are details from the report: Instead of topping up the asset-buying and lending programme again, the BOJ may pledge to buy assets open-endedly until 2 percent inflation is in sight, without setting a specific date for completing the purchases, the sources said. Another idea being floated is for the central bank to pledge that it will keep the balance of its asset-buying and lending programme intact even beyond its end-2013 deadline, they said. The BOJ will also consider scrapping the 0.1 percent interest it pays on excess reserves that financial institutions park at the central bank, according to the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter. That rate has effectively served as a floor to¬†money¬†market rates and kept them from falling to zero. The central bank is under pressure from newly-elected Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has been forcefully talking down the yen in recent weeks and months in a bid to induce inflation. The news from Reuters comes shortly after Nikkei reported that the Bank of Japan was preparing to ease policy at its next meeting on Tuesday.
By Sonja Ryst, Research Analyst JPMorgan Chase (JPM) released a 132-page report on Jan. 16 that detailed the ìLondon Whaleî story surrounding a $2 billion investment fiasco. On the same day the New York financial services firm said its†board approved compensating†CEO Jamie Dimon $11.5 million for his work in 2012, or around half as much as in the prior year, taking into consideration both the continued strong performance of JPMorgan as well as its recent investment†losses, including Mr. Dimonís responsibility as CEO. We noted on January 15 that several of the independent directors on JPMorganís board have†supervised†Mr. Dimon for many years. They also earned as much compensation in exchange for their services as some bank employees do. The following is a round-up of media commentary about the boardís recent decision: ìThe pay cut was actually a message from the board to regulators and worried investors that it was a strong watchdog over the nationís largest bank, according to several people with knowledge of the matter.î The New York Times. ìJPMorgan has gone soft on Jamie Dimon over the so-called whale trade. . . The more than $10 million docked from Dimonís pay will sting, but the board could do more ñ like removing one of his hats.î Reuters Breakingviews. JPMorgan said ìemployees were overwhelmed by the complexity of their bets, risk managers were ill-equipped and leaders including Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon werenít aggressive enough in responding. . . (Michael) Cavanagh, who has worked with or for Dimon since 1993, led the management task force that produced the report. Dimon promoted him from chief financial officer to run the treasury and security services division in June 2010, and again last July to co-head the corporate and investment bank. . .Joe Evangelisti, a spokesman for the bank, said Cavanagh answered to the independent committee of the board, which also conducted its own review.î Bloomberg ìFirst and foremost, profits rose 53% to $5.7 billion. Revenue was in line with expectations. To no lesser degree: the self-examination stemming from the ìLondon whaleî trading debacle seems to be having the desired effect. . .That is: Chief Executive Jamie Dimon appears safe.î Marketwatch ìThe problem isnít that the report is incomplete, lacks analysis or fails to hold people responsible for the mess. . .Given how badly the trade went, it is amazing how right the response by the New York company has been, at least by Wall Street standards.î The Wall Street Journal The post Media Commentary Mostly Skeptical of JPMorganís Whale Report appeared first on GMI Ratings. † Read more posts on GMI Ratings ª
flickr / woodleywonderworksIn December, Goldman Sachs commodity analysts caused quite a bit of chatter when they called the end of the bull market in gold. The bank's central thesis is that the U.S. economic recovery finally takes off in 2013, and Goldman expects that to drive a selloff in the gold market as investors rotate away from traditional "safe-haven" investments. At the time, the analysts wrote, "We lower our 3-, 6- and 12-mo gold price forecasts to $1,825/toz, $1,805/toz and $1,800/toz and introduce a $1,750/toz 2014 forecast. While we see potential for higher gold prices in early 2013, we see growing downside risks." Now, Goldman has decided to up the ante a bit. Yesterday, its commodity analysts introduced a new call: gold at $1200 per ounce by 2018. In a note to clients, Goldman analysts Christian Lelong, Max Layton,¬†Damien Courvalin, Jeffrey Currie, and Roger Yuan write, "Assuming a linear increase in US real rates back to 2.0% by 2018, as proxied by the 10-year US TIPS yield, we expect that gold prices will continue to trend lower over the coming five years and introduce our long-term gold price of $1,200/oz from 2018 forward." What about monetary demand for gold and inflation, though? The analysts answer that question: Beyond real interest rates, fluctuations in the monetary demand for gold also exert an influence on gold prices. Our forecast currently embeds physical gold demand from ETFs and central banks growing in 2013 at the 2009-2012 pace, with ETF purchases slowing in 2014. In our forecast, this steady monetary gold demand helps slow the decline in prices over the coming years. Given the risk around this assumption, we also considered alternative paths for physical gold demand but found that, while not negligible, the impact of gold prices to stronger or weaker monetary demand for gold remains modest compared to the influence exerted by real rates and the Fed‚Äôs QE. As a result, it would require a significant further increase in monetary demand for gold to change our outlook for gold prices. While a very significant increase in monetary gold demand by EM investors and central banks could hold the potential for such a large impact, it is also worth noting that a decline in gold prices pushing ETF gold holdings sharply lower would in turn precipitate this fall in gold prices.  Our framework for evaluating gold prices relates the real (inflation-adjusted) price of gold to real interest rates and the monetary demand for gold. As a result, a higher rate of US inflation would inflate our forecasted gold price proportionally. For now, our economists view inflation above the Fed‚Äôs target as a low probability risk given: (1) inflation expectations have remained well anchored despite significant expansion of the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet, (2) the margin of economic slack will only gradually decline given their expected slow decline in unemployment, and (3) we further forecast that commodity prices will remain more stable than in prior years. Finally, even if higher inflation materializes, its impact on gold prices could be offset by: (1) US real interest rates rising more quickly than we anticipate if the economic recovery is accelerating, or (2) an end to the Fed‚Äôs aggressive balance sheet expansion if inflation expectations become unhinged. In other words, Goldman expects the effect from higher interest rates to weigh more heavily on gold than the boost it the shiny yellow metal would get from continued monetary easing and inflation. Still, 2018 is a long way off, so Goldman will have plenty of time to test its hypothesis‚Äìand tweak it if need be. SEE ALSO: 10 Countries Hoarding Enormous Amounts Of Gold &gt;
In case you haven't seen it, here's a chart of the Swiss Franc vs. The Euro, via BofA. It's incredibly important, as we'll explain below. BofA/ML In late 2009, the Swiss France really started to surge against the euro, as wary investors, watching the emergence of the European crisis, rushed their cash into uber-safe Switzerland. As the crisis wore on in 2010, the Swiss Franc continued to surge. And then in 2011, the Swiss France went truly parabolic, as the world was consumed by both the Euro crisis and also the US debt ceiling standoff. Not long after that, Switzerland decided to set a "ceiling" on CHFEUR, as the strength of its own currency was seen as an impediment to stronger exports, or even just people wanting to visit Switzerland. Money continued to rush into Switzerland form Europe, but the Swiss National Bank made sure to keep the Franc from appreciating (essentially by printing a lot of Franc). But the European crisis is finally fading, and in the circled part we see the Franc weakening to beneath the ceiling. Essentially, the run on the Eurozone, which had precipitated a strong capital rush into Switzerland is reversing. And people are putting more money into Eurozone banks and Euro-denominated assets again. It's a very bizarre looking chart, but it tells a big story.
In 2016, the average American will still be spending way more money on pharmaceuticals than the rest of the world.¬† They'll be spending three times as much as the average European.¬† This is according to a 2012 study from IMS Health. Not accounting for inflation*, the average American will spend $892 on drugs, versus the $375 the average European** is expected to spend, according to a report from IMS. Indians will likely spend the least, at $33 per person. Here's a chart from IMS that shows what spending per person in different countries will look like in 2016:  *Real spending in 2005$ at variable exchange rates, adjusted for purchasing power parity. **France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Greece
Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images Everyone's still going nuts about Manti Te'o's "fake" girlfriendóthe one practically every media outlet in the country was obsessed with, the one he tweeted with, the one he talked on the phone with for hours every night. This girlfriend, everyone is now saying, was a complete fabrication. She didn't exist! Now, it's certainly possible that Manti Te'o is lying and this girlfriend was, in fact, a complete fabrication. It's possible that he never tweeted with anyone, or talked to anyoneóbecause she really did not exist. But if that's the case, you would think that Notre Dame would have discovered that by now, given that the university conducted a formal investigation. Notre Dame says Te'o was the victim of an elaborate hoax conducted by a "group of people." And one of those people, presumably, was a woman on the other end of a phone. Te'o vividly described to ESPN how he talked to this girl on the phone "every night." And how he had an amazing relationship with her and missed her after she "died." And it's actually quite possible that Te'o was, and is, telling the truth. Te'o may well have talked to a woman on the phone every night, a woman he considered his girlfriend. And he may well have had a very real, very meaningful relationship with heróone that meant a lot to him. It's possible to have very real, very meaningful relationships without ever seeing someone. Just ask all the people who have online relationships and letter-based relationships and email-based relationships. These relationships can be very emotional and very real. Now, yes, if this is the kind of relationship Manti Te'o had, there's one other conclusion that is inescapable: His girlfriend lied to him a lot: But people lie to each other all the time, including in relationships. (Ever been cheated on?) Sometimes people even lie to each other about their names and backgrounds. So if Manti Te'o's girlfriend was lying to him all the time, well, that would be nothing new. And it wouldn't make her "fake." Manti Te'o's girlfriend would still be a real woman (presumably) on the other end of a phone. She still would have been his "girlfriend," even if she was lying all the time (and having sex with someone else, etc.) It's possible to form a strong emotional bond with someone even if they're actually someone else's girlfriend or spouse and they're lying to you all the time. (It's worth considering this from the woman's perspective, too. You can just cackle and say she was "hoaxing" him the whole time. But talking to some guy for hours every night would get pretty time-consuming and boring if it was just a practical joke. I think it's reasonable to assume that whoever the woman on the other end of the phone was, she actually developed an attachment to Te'o, even if she was lying to him about everything. And that would actually make this a bona fide relationship!) So, unless Manti Te'o is lying, it's time to dispense with the "fake girlfriend" thing. Te'o had a girlfriend. She just lied to him about pretty much everything. And he was young and trusting enough to believe her. SEE ALSO: Notre Dame Players Said They Were Skeptical Of Te'o's Girlfriend All Along
The world's greatest short-seller Jim Chanos, the founder of Kynikos Associates, weighed in on the hedge fund war between Bill Ackman (Pershing Square) and Daniel Loeb (Third Point) over Herbalife in an interview with ReutersTV.† Ackman revealed last month that he's shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife calling it a "pyramid scheme." He has a price target of zero and believes the company is going to fail. Loeb's Third Point recently disclosed a†8.24% stake in Herbalife. †In a letter to investors Loeb called Ackman's pyramid scheme allegation "preposterous."† "I think that at the end of the day the Herbalife bull-bear battle will result on who can prove the fact of whether or not the business proposition is good," Chanos said in an interview with Reuters TV. "Now, I know there are a number of bulls in the company who think 'this is nothing more than a glorified 12-Step program or it's a way for weight loss,' but I'm a little skeptical about that argument as well because there are so many competing venues for weight loss not the least of which are companies like Weight Watchers and Jenny Craig and others that don't have the multi-level marketing aspect," he added.† Chanos hasn't publicly commented on Herbalife. †He declined to say if he will do so at some point, but he did say that he's studied the MLM industry.† Check out this video with Reuters TV:†  Herbalife's stock is now trading above the pre-Ackman short levels. Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short, shares of Herbalife have moved up more than 6%. †On December 24, the stock hit a 52-week low of $24.24 a share and have since rallied back.† The stock was last trading down more than 1% today.† SEE: 14 Quotes From Jim Chanos That Show Why He's The Most Successful Short Seller In The World &gt;
‚ÄúF--- You Money‚Äù, if you haven‚Äôt worked on Wall Street, represents the amount of money you‚Äôd need in order to professionally disregard anybody else‚Äôs needs.¬† In other words, the amount you need to walk away from your desk, go out the door, and never look back. My sales partner, and friend, who I sat next to on the mortgage bond desk, kept a spreadsheet on his desktop calculating precisely how close he was at any given point to achieving his ‚ÄúNumber.‚Äú ¬†He‚Äôd been at Goldman (and another firm before that) longer than me, and he stayed about 5 years longer than I did.¬† Although I never came out and asked him directly after he left GS, I‚Äôm pretty sure he made his ‚ÄúNumber.‚Äù I left Goldman in 2004, long before earning my own personal ‚ÄúF--- You Money.‚Äù Sometime after 9/11 happened[1] I was no longer willing to live an unhappy daily life, focusing on delayed gratification, the key factor for me to accumulate enough for my ‚ÄúNumber.‚Äù[2] I‚Äôve been thinking about what it really means to be wealthy for a couple of reasons.¬† One, because its bonus day today at Goldman, and two, because I‚Äôm teaching a course this semester on personal finance. Preparing for this course has pushed me to reflect, before the college students ask me, on the best definition of wealthy. My answer to them will be something like this: ¬† A More Nuanced Version of being wealthy doesn‚Äôt involve saying ‚ÄúF--- You‚Äù to work Hold on there a moment!¬† I‚Äôm not done yet with my definition of wealthy.¬† My fullest definition of wealthy adds an important factor to the ‚ÄòDo you have enough to walk away from work?‚Äô question[9].¬†¬† After all, work gives meaning to life.¬† Work grounds us, puts us in the flow of society, and makes us feel useful to others.¬† Work in that sense is a good thing unto itself.¬† So how do I integrate that with my definition of being wealthy? I think wealthy means not so much having ‚ÄúF--- You Money,‚Äù or reaching your ‚ÄúNumber,‚Äù but rather having the option to choose work that you would do regardless of the level of compensation. ¬† So here it is, my definition of wealthy: If you have enough assets plus passive income to cover your personal lifestyle expenses for the rest of your life, and that money allows you to work at something you love ‚Äì without concern for the amount of compensation ‚Äì then you are wealthy. Let‚Äôs say you love feeding the less fortunate.¬† If you have enough passive income in excess of your expenses that you could ladle soup to the homeless ‚Äì even though that service pays you almost nothing ‚Äì then you are wealthy. If your greatest joy in life consists of reading novels and writing your memoirs every day,[10] and you can live cheaply enough to make that happen for the rest of your life, then you are wealthy. If you perform eye surgery for a living, and you live for the joy of returning sight to the blind, and you can afford to do so even if Medicare cuts your reimbursements to one-tenth of their current level, then you are wealthy. If you would sell bonds for a living, for the sheer joy itself ‚Äì the act of efficiently allocating capital or whatever you tell yourself ‚Äì then you don‚Äôt care what your actual bonus is today from Goldman.¬† So what if you‚Äôre down 25% from last year, or you‚Äôre up 100%? ¬†Who cares? ¬†¬†You love it! ¬†If you‚Äôd do it anyway, and you can afford to do it, then you are a wealthy person. If, however, you‚Äôre working at something, day in and day out, that you would quit as soon as you made enough money, I would argue you‚Äôre far from wealthy.¬† You may be covering your costs and accumulating assets, but you‚Äôre even farther from the ultimate goal of wealth than you think. [1] Which I wrote about here. [2] Also, I wasn‚Äôt the world‚Äôs greatest bond salesman, so it was going to take me quite a bit longer than some to make my ‚ÄúNumber.‚Äù ¬† [3] To sell real estate would be to announce to the world that you no longer belonged to polite society, so in effect the market price of most real property was meaningless and incalculable.¬† Family-owned real estate meant much more than price.¬† To lose your land due to excessive indebtedness, a common theme of these novels, was to lose your place in the world. [4] The romantic plot of all these novels goes something like this: ‚ÄúDemure Lizzy Bernnet, with her mere 300 pounds per year, could not possibly hope to make a match with the dashing Mr. Farcy and his 20,000 pounds per year.¬† She‚Äôll surely need to settle for the homely parson the widower and his modest 500 pounds per year.¬† But plump narrow-eyed Fanny Bobbins and her 12,000 pounds per year, however, seems to have caught the eye of Col. Wigglesworth and his 1,200 pounds.¬† Oh how happy the Colonel will be with this match!‚Äù etc. [5] Ah, the English ideal! [6] Interestingly, 401K and IRA rules mandate that Americans withdraw at least some of their retirement savings from their accounts each year, after age 70, in effect forcing us to sell assets to cover expenses.¬† The 19th Century English landed gentry do not approve! [7] This issue gets complicated if you consider leaving wealth to the next generation to be a sign and precondition of being wealthy.¬† The English landed gentry did.¬† As an American with ‚Äúsmall d‚Äù democratic leanings, I don‚Äôt.¬† Those of you who have read my previous posts on tax policy may detect a hint of dismay for tax policy which encourages inheritance as a primary means of ‚Äúgetting rich.‚Äù [8] At the extreme example, everyone who is debt free on their deathbed is ‚Äòwealthy‚Äô since they need no more assets or income to cover their expenses. [9] As a good austere New Englander, I cannot get away from the difference between my home culture and the English 19th Century ideal of not working.¬† So I need to amend the idea of wealthy so that it does not celebrate idleness. [10] Like the greatest of all the English landed gentry, Bilbo Baggins, writing the story of his travels as he lives frugally in Rivendell, off Elrond‚Äôs largesse.
Business Insider VideoDylan Grice is joining Edelweiss Holdings, an asset management firm incorporated in Bermuda and is expected to start March 1, according to Zerohedge. Grice told Business Insider that the fund is managed out of Zurich, Switzerland. He joins the team as Research Director. Those that love his research notes can rest easy because he will still be writing as part of his new role with Edelweiss. Back in November Dylan Grice announced that he was leaving his position as a strategist at Societe Generale. At the time he said: "All good things come to an end, sadly. So it is with my time here alongside Albert, Andy¬†¬† and the rest of the gang at SG. I‚Äôm signing off, checking out, moving on to pastures new.¬†¬† It‚Äôs been a wonderful time. But after three years of trying to sound clever it‚Äôs time for me to¬†¬† do something altogether more difficult, and actually be clever. So early next year, I will join¬†¬† a small but outstanding investment practice. Naturally, I hope it will be a great success." We wish him the very best. Note: We corrected the piece to reflect that Edelweiss is incorporated in Bermuda but the fund is managed in Zurich, Switzerland. SEE ALSO: Dylan Grice - Here Are 22 Books Everyone Must Read &gt;
Bloomberg TVJeffrey Currie, the influential oil analyst who heads commodity research at Goldman Sachs, said today at a conference in Frankfurt, Germany, that Brent crude oil prices could rise to $150 per barrel this summer. Brent crude futures are currently trading around $110 per barrel, implying 36 percent upside from here. Hans Bentzien at Dow Jones has the scoop: Mr. Currie pointed out that despite the boom in U.S. shale gas, the oil price remains high, which he attributed primarily to sanction-related supply disruptions in Iran. Trying to compensate for this, Saudi Arabia has already increased its oil production to a 30-year high this year. At the same time, Mr. Currie added that while global oil demand has increased at a slower pace, it is still higher than the production increases in non-OPEC countries. In a not to clients published Sunday, Currie wrote: We are not out of the woods yet  Despite the recent price stability, we believe that this decline in commodity volatility is too much too soon, dropping far below the volatility of other asset classes, as risks to both the downside and upside have not completely gone away (see Exhibits 2 and 3). In other words, we are not out of the woods yet. Upside risks for oil prices include low inventory levels, limited OPEC spare capacity, and geopolitical risks which are likely near an all-time high with production in a very large number of countries at risk, including Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Nigeria, Sudan, Syria and Venezuela. In addition, the price stability in 2H2012 was achieved during a period of extremely weak global demand growth and a decelerating China, all of which are expected to improve during the latter half of this year.  While one can argue that the upside in oil is capped by a combination of weaker economic growth and the US SPR, a stronger economy later this year would likely raise the threshold for prices while the recent surge in US oil production which has displaced US imports somewhat reduces the impact the US SPR would have on global markets. Downside risk for all commodity prices comes from the fact that the macro-economic and policy improvements are still fragile. Europe still faces economic and policy headwinds, China just experienced a significant food inflation surprise (and the livestock impacts from last year‚Äôs agriculture price spike will only be felt this year) and the US still faces risks from the debt ceiling debate, the automatic spending cuts (or ‚Äúsequestration‚Äù) and impending tax increases. On net, while we have sympathy for the view of a structural decline in long-term commodity price volatility, we believe the recent decline is too much too soon, both relative to commodity market fundamentals as well as other asset classes. Bentzien also notes that Currie's call today stands in stark contrast to Goldman's base case for 2013, which expects Brent crude to fall to $100 per barrel.
Calgary Reviews / FlickrRetail chicken prices hit an all-time record for the second-consecutive month in December as producers continued to pass on the effects of this summer's sky-high corn prices. The USDA's retail broiler composite price, which measures the price paid for chicken parts and whole birds, hit $1.97/lb, a jump of $0.10 in just two months, the agency reported. The mid-summer drought sent corn prices above $8 for the first time ever. Corn is one of the major feedstocks used to grow chickens.¬† Bruce Reinstein, V.P. of Strategic Development at bulk food contractor Consolidated Concepts,says his clients are struggling with the crazy-high prices. "Demand for products are up and supply down," he said via email. Here's the USDA's chart: USDA SEE MORE: Here's What A Drought-Devastated Crop Looks Like &gt;
Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products, has become one of the most controversial stocks lately.† Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, the founder of Pershing Square Capital Management, is shorting more than 20 million shares of HLF calling the company a†"pyramid scheme." On the long side, hedge funder Daniel Loeb, the founder Third Point LLC, disclosed a 8.24% stake in the company. †Loeb thinks Ackman's pyramid scheme claim is "preposterous." † The stock has now returned above the pre-Ackman short levels. †It's definitely†been an interesting hedge fund battle to watch.† As part of his short, Ackman launched an exhaustive website FactsAboutHerbalife.com with supporting materials for his short thesis. † In one of the sections of the site, he features a presentation given by Doran Andry, a "Chairman's Club Member" of Herbalife who has been a distributor since 1988.† In Andry's presentation about "Nutrition Clubs" given at Herbalife's Leadership Development Weekend in April 2011, he shows how becoming a distributor changed his life and helped his dreams come true. To demonstrate this, Andry shows photos of his gorgeous $30 million custom mansion, his fleet of luxury rides, his more toned physique, his family's exotic vacations around the world as well as their extensive global charity work. We've included his presentation in the slides that follow.
As nations see Japan's success in weakening the yen (see discussion), some begin to take notice. Emerging markets nations often attempted to devalue their currencies in the past in order to improve competitiveness. But these days developed economies are doing it as well. This morning the Russians called these policies "currency wars", which is a good way to describe the latest developments. And such policies are not limited to Japan. Bloomberg: - The alert from the country that chairs the Group of 20 came as Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker complained of a ‚Äúdangerously high‚Äù euro and officials in Norway and Sweden expressed exchange-rate concern. The push for weaker currencies is being driven by a need to find new sources of economic growth as monetary and fiscal policies run out of room. The risk is as each country tries to boost exports, it hurts the competitiveness of other economies and provokes retaliation. Yesterday ‚Äúwill go down as the first day European policy makers fired a shot in the 2013 currency war,‚Äù said Chris Turner, head of foreign-exchange strategy at ING Groep NV in London. In an environment such as this it is somewhat surprising to see gold treading water.Sober LookThe key concern on the part of precious metals investors is the risk of rising US dollar - as Europe and Japan focus on pushing their currencies lower. Stronger dollar tends to put downward pressure on commodity prices.As discussed earlier (see post), the Fed's activities in 2012 did not materially increase US bank reserves or the monetary base. 2013 however will be a different story, as the dovish Fed keeps buying assets at an accelerated pace (see discussion). That's why in spite of this latest news from Europe on "currency wars", the dollar remains subdued.Sober LookAt least in the near term, precious metals and some other commodities should benefit from this global policy of "currency wars", which include a large contribution by the Fed.
Jen Durfy / FlickrThis morning, we learned that initial jobless claims plunged to 335k from last week's 369k reading. This was much lower than the 369k economists were expecting. The stunning drop has at least one economist questioning the report. From JP Morgan's Daniel Silver: US: Initial claims drop but a distortion likely Initial claims plunged 37,000 to 335,000 during the week ending January 12, reaching a new best for the expansion to date. However, the claims data can be very volatile around the turn of the year and the Department of Labor indicated that at least some of this most recent drop may have been due to an ìadjustment issue,î so it is likely not a very reliable indicator for the labor market. It may take a few more weeks until we can get a clean read on the labor market from the claims numbers. Continuing claims jumped 87,000 to 3.124mn during the week ending January 5 after tumbling 109,000 the prior week. This recent volatility is also likely due to seasonal adjustment issues around the holiday season. Last October, a similar drop in jobless claims (fell to 339k from 369k) sparked the same reaction from economists.
A little over a month ago, ECRI - who started forecasting an "imminent" recession a year and four months ago, saying it may even have already started in August or September 2011 - premiered what they called their telltale chart, opining: Reviewing the indicators used to officially decide U.S. recession dates, it looks like the recession began around July 2012. This is because, in retrospect, three of those four coincident indicators ñ the broad measures of production, income, employment and sales ñ saw their high points in July (vertical red line in chart), with only employment still rising. Here's the chart:The Bonddad BlogWith yesterday's reports of industrial production and real retail sales, however, the chart is now telling a different tale (all series have been set to 100 for July 2012):The Bonddad BlogAs you can see, between November and December all four coincident indicators - industrial production, real retail sales, real income ex transfer payments, and payrolls - have all made new highs.While we don't have the inflation adjustment for real manufacturing and trade sales, the series used by ECRI instead of real retail sales, that series doesn't help their case any more either. Manufacturing and trade sales for November were reported Tuesday at 1,271.6, up 2% from their previous post-recession high of 1,247.7 set in March. Unless there is a huge mysterious spike of inflation in November reported by the BEA later this month in the incomes and spending report, real manufacturing and trade sales will also set a new high.For a year now ECRI has stopped discussing either their long or short leading indicators in public. When they make the rounds of CNN, CNBC, and Bloomberg the next time, will any of the interviewers have the journalistic integrity to ask where those leading indicators stand? Will they question ECRI about its previous blown forecasts of recession in late 2011, and then most likely in the first quarter of 2012 but in any event by midyear? Or will it be a journamalistic fluffing, with ECRI being allowed to ignore its own, now busted, "tell-tale chart," and premiere some other rationalization?
YouTubeAn amateur prospector in Australia came into a bit of a windfall yesterday while searching for hidden gold. The man found a giant gold nugget weighing 177 ounces ‚Äì worth approximately $295,000 at today's market prices. The discovery was made in the town of Ballarat in the Australian state of Victoria. According to the BBC, this is the biggest gold nugget local experts have ever seen: "I have been a prospector and dealer for two decades, and cannot remember the last time a nugget over 100 ounces (2.8kg) has been found locally," said Cordell Kent, owner of the Ballarat Mining Exchange Gold Shop. "It's extremely significant as a mineral specimen. We are 162 years into a gold rush and Ballarat is still producing nuggets - it's unheard of." The caption of a video posted on YouTube showing off the nugget told more of the story: This 177 troy ounce gold nugget (5,505 grams - 5.5kgs) was found by a prospector with a hand held metal detector near Ballarat, Victoria, Australia on January 16, 2013. What a find!!! No it wasn't me.... It was found at a depth of a little over 60 cm (2 ft) with a modern detector with a small coil. The prospector said it sounded like the bonnet of a car through the head phones. It was lying flat (broad side up) and he carefully dug it up. In this video it hasn't been cleaned. It is approximately 220mm long, 140mm wide and has a maximum depth of 45mm. Ok, this nugget was found with a Minelab GPX5000 super metal detector, with an Advantage Plus 'Sadie' mono elliptical coil, and a Rooster Booster audio enhancer (used with an external speaker).¬† The prospector said he heard the signal, kicked off about 100mm (4 inches) of leaf mulch from the surface, and thought the ground looked in original condition ie it hadn't been dug previously. It was lying flat in the ground, and was over 60cm (2 feet) deep in the earth/clay/gravels. So this means he and his detector heard it at an incredible depth from the search coil (the disc that is at the end of the hand held detector). Kent told the Courier Journal that despite market prices, the nugget is actually worth more than $300,000 due to its novelty.¬†"There's nothing like digging up money," he said. "It's good fun."
UPDATE: Earlier, we noted that gold posted its biggest drop since Friday's trading session after upbeat housing starts and jobless claims data were released at 8:30 AM. After the release of the closely-watched Philadelphia Fed Business Outlook Survey at 10 AM, which unexpectedly plunged into negative territory, gold blew through the highs it set before 8:30 AM. It's the biggest upward move we've seen in nearly two weeks. The shiny yellow metal is now trading north of $1687 an ounce after dropping below $1670 before the Philly Fed number was released (click to enlarge): Thinkorswim Jobless claims and housing starts surprise to the upside and the gold market's knee-jerk reaction is to sell. The Philly Fed index surprises to the downside, and gold surges. ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Gold prices fell sharply at 8:30 AM after initial jobless claims came in well below expectations and housing starts surged 12.1 percent, four times what was expected. Futures were trading over $1681 per ounce and immediately dropped to $1670 following the announcement (click to enlarge): Thinkorswim It's not a huge move, but it's the biggest drop in gold we've seen since Friday's trading session, and it's a good illustration of the knee-jerk reaction the gold market has to positive economic data right now. The fear may be that the Fed will ease up on bond purchases sooner than expected in light of the improvement.
Geithner is leaving Washington after running the Treasury during the most turbulent years for the global economy in recent history, so hopefully it was a blowout. Anyway, at the party President Obama was pretty light hearted according to White. He even got around to telling a little joke. From Morning Money: ...President Barack Obama joked how the outgoing Treasury secretary was forever telling him it was the second inning of the economic recovery. Months would go by and the president would ask again. The answer? Still the second inning. Obama joked that he had to explain to Geithner that baseball was a nine-inning game. Obama also described Geithner as an island of calm in a team full of noisy, blustery economic advisers. (No, he never mentioned Larry Summers by name). Bromance.
Wikimedia Commons/Jeffrey M. VinocurUPDATE: This month's Philly Fed Business Outlook Survey fell sharply to an index reading of -5.8. Click here for updates &gt; Economists expected the index to rise to 5.6 from last month's reading of 4.6. Below is a summary of the data from the release: The January Business Outlook Survey¬†suggests that activity in the region‚Äôs manufacturing sector decreased moderately¬†this month. Firms reported decreases in¬†overall activity, new orders, and employment this month. Firms also reported¬†a moderation in price pressures compared¬†with the previous month. The survey‚Äôs¬†future activity indexes suggest that firms¬†expect growth over the first six months of¬†2013. Here is a breakdown of the subcomponents of the index: Philadelphia Fed Click here for the full release &gt; ----------------- ORIGINAL: Minutes away from the release of the Philadelphia Fed's closely watched Business Outlook Survey at 10 AM ET. Economists expect the index to rise to 5.6 after registering a 4.6 reading last month. Last month's figure, which marked a rise out of negative territory, was initially released as an 8.1 reading but was later lowered to 4.6 as part of the Philadelphia Fed's annual revisions to the data series. A positive print signals expansion, while a sub-zero reading suggests contraction. We will have the release LIVE at 10 AM ET.¬†Click here for updates &gt;
Yepoka Yeebo / Business Insider China's millionaires say that the richer you are, the less happy you are, according to the first Millionaire Happiness Report from Hurun. While this could be a PR move to support the Communist Party line that wealth is dubious, Hurun has been a reliable source on Chinese millionaires in the past. Here's what the report found: Chinese millionaires don‚Äôt sleep that much, 6.6 hours on average during the working week. The Chinese super-rich, fall into two categories, those who are workaholics and those who are winding down, supposedly toward early retirement. Self-made female millionaires are more likely to be divorced, 35% of the respondents, with an average age of 37 years, are either divorced or remain unmarried which is twice the figure amongst their male counterparts. Men consider setting up their own company as the happiest moment of their life, whereas women consider theirs to be falling in love.¬† Both male and female millionaires are dissatisfied generally with their health and want to spend more time with their children. The idea that wealth leads to regret always surprises people, though it has been repeated countless times. One recent study found that $75,000 was the optimal income for happiness.¬† Don't miss: 10 Incredibly Easy Ways To Improve Your Life &gt;
We got another bout of strong data today. Initial claims came in well below expectations. And housing starts came in well above expectations. Housing is the primary bullish tailwind for the US economy, so this is particularly gratifying. That being said, the economy is not growing blazing fast just yet. In a note out this morning, Goldman's Shuyan Wu presents a note titled A Roadmap For Slow Growth In Q1. Goldman expects growth of 1.5%, and although housing is expected to be a continued boost, the increase in the payroll tax, and other Washington-based headwinds will continue to weigh on things. Consumer spending, hiring, and industrial investment are all expected to be tepid. This table shows how in almost every category, Q1 is expected to be weaker than Q4. Goldman Sachs
Every fleet of Boeing Dreamliners¬† has been grounded, after the US Federal Aviation Administration required American airlines to stop flying the new passenger jet. That order applied only to United Airlines, as no other American airlines fly the Dreamliner, but the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) followed suit, as have other airlines, Aviation Week reported. Early this morning, the AP reported Air India had grounded its six 787s. In a statement today, Qatar Airways, whose fleet of five Dreamliners is the largest in the Middle East, stopped flying the new jet, according to Reuters. LOT Polish Airlines has followed suit as well, and even cancelled a ceremony celebrating the landing of its Dreamliner in Chicago after a flight from Warsaw, the Telegraph reported. The FAA's order came soon after All Nippon Airways (ANA) and Japan Airlines each voluntarily grounded their fleets of Dreamliners yesterday, after an ANA 787 had to make an emergency landing because of a battery malfunction. ANA and Japan Airlines, which operate about half of the 50 Dreamliners Boeing has delivered so far, grounded their fleets after that incident. The FAA review will address the risk of the jet's lithium ion batteries catching on fire, one of many reported problems that have plagued the Dreamliner in recent weeks. The administration has provided no timeline for how long the planes will be kept on the ground. Here's a history of the problems with Boeing's Dreamliner &gt;
Matt Howard via FlickrFlorida had the nation's highest foreclosure rate for the first time on record in 2012, with one in every 32 homes receiving a foreclosure filing last year, according to RealtyTrac's latest foreclosure report. Nevada, which had for five consecutive years posted the nation's highest foreclosure rate, fell to second place. Both were above the national average foreclosure rate of one in every 72 homes receiving a foreclosure filing . On a monthly basis Florida posted the highest rate in September. "Florida is in more trouble than the northeast because the volume of foreclosures was so overwhelming, and the number of foreclosures that we're talking about are more likely to hurt that market,"¬†Daren Blomquist vice president at RealtyTrac told Business Insider. "On the other side there, in some markets of Florida there are some good underlying fundamentals that we're starting to see. Especially in Miami just really strong demand from home buyers. People want to move in Florida. Buy in Florida it always has that going for it. Even foreign buyers and unemployment has come down." Here are some details from RealtyTrac: This chart shows that in terms of foreclosure activity (as opposed to rate) Florida posted the second highest increase. New Jersey had the highest, up 55 percent YoY: RealtyTrace ¬†
CBS via YouTubeFrom one crazy theory to save America to the next... That's this morning's message from Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services' director of New York Stock Exchange floor operations. With Congress far from a deal to address the U.S. debt ceiling, cynics, skeptics, and some astute theorists have been coming up with some wild alternatives that could prevent the U.S. from defaulting on it's obligations. Cashin wrote about one new theory in this morning's Cashin's Comments: The Platinum Coin Meets Goldfinger ‚Äì The thesis that the Treasury could mint a trillion dollar coin to avoid the debt ceiling may have collided with the conspiracy theories around the German repatriating of gold bullion reserves. Out in the Lewis Carroll land of the blogosphere, the alchemists are at again ‚Äì well sort of. A new theory says that if the Treasury marked up its gold reserve to current market value (circa $1600), it would create enough of a windfall to allow the Treasury to keep spending despite the ceiling. Some folks clearly have too much time on their hands. SEE ALSO: 10 Countries Hoarding Massive Amounts Of Gold &gt;
This Friday, NBC news show†Dateline†will air a two-hour special report on the murder of an American citizen in Belize, Gregory Faull, and the role of John McAfee, the founder of the eponymous antivirus software company. McAfee, a neighbor of Faull's was never a formal suspect in the case. But he fled Belizean police who wanted to question him. Reporter Keith Morrison tracked McAfee from Belize to Guatemala to interview him and numerous other people involved in the case. Business Insider talked to Morrison about McAfee and Sam Venegas, a woman who accompanied McAfee when he went into hiding. After McAfee fled, the whole thing turned into some kind of real-life James Bond movie involving hiding in the jungle, faking his own capture and more. UPDATED: Warner Bros. just Impact Future Media now has† the movie rights to his story. (However, Warner Bros. might do a movie, too. It optioned an article by Wired Magazine writer Joshua Davis.) Here's a lightly edited transcript. BI: What surprised you most about McAfee? DatelineDateline correspondent Keith MorrisonKeith Morrison: I don't know whether he is a lunatic or crazy like a fox. Maybe a little bit of each. He glories in the public perception that he's a crazy man, which tells you to watch out. We caught up with him, but what conclusions people reach, I don't know. We were trying to do a story about the murder of Greg Faull and keep our focus on that. But McAfee's focus is to try to change the subject away from that and skate along in this interesting public persona he showed the world. He's an odd man, to say the least. What were your thoughts about McAfee's girlfriend, Sam Venegas? Keith Morrison: Which girlfriend? There were something like nine of them at some point and then he was down to half a dozen. Now, I gather he has just one, although he maintains he would like to have a second one with him, but now apparently she has a boyfriend of her own. They admitted to me that they were presented to him as 16-year-old prostitutes whom he took in. He had a harem. His claim to fame that he was able to satisfy all of them, which lead to all kinds of speculations of†testosterone injections or, more likely, this odd drug called MDPV. And then there was the question of if he was using it, or lying about using it. He was caught in a tangle of interlocking crazy stories. Don't miss: Do Police Really Think John McAfee Is A Murderer? Dateline Investigates
Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images Apple's stock is now down about 30% from its high. This plunge has led to a feisty argument between the Apple perma-fans, who dismiss the fall as "stock manipulation," and other investors, who think that several fundamental trends that have made Apple the most valuable company in the world have started to change. After defending the stock for the first few months of its swoon, meanwhile, Wall Street analysts are now rushing to cut price targets and downgrade it. So, who's right? And how bad could it get? Specifically, if those who believe Apple's fortunes are changing are right, how low could the stock go? And might Apple's stock just suddenly prove the doubters wrong and blast off to the stratosphere again? Let's address the broader question first. I'm sorry to disappoint diehard Apple fans, but it is the height of reality distortion to believe that a 30% fall in the stock of the world's most valuable company is just "stock manipulation." No one has the power to "manipulate" Apple's stock to that extent. Apple is one of the most liquid stocks in the world. The folks who trade millions of shares of Apple stock every day are a highly diverse group of investors. Bad information can temporarily move stocks, yes, but the market is very good at sorting out whether new information is bad information or weak information and discounting it accordingly. So if, say, last week's report that Apple had cut its iPhone orders in half was, in fact, inaccurate, the market has long since factored that possibility into the stock price. Just because the market for Apple stock is liquid, of course, doesn't mean that Apple's stock price is "right." The market gets it wrong all the time. But, importantly, the reason the market gets it wrong all the time is that stock prices are based on what people think will happen in the future, not what has happened in the past. And no one knows what will happen in the future. In case you haven't completely internalized that last paragraph, here it is again: Stock prices represent a collective guess about what will happen in the future. And no one knows what will happen in the future. The upshot of that is that Apple's changing stock price is all about what the consensus thinks will happen to Apple's fortunes and finances over the next few years. And here, it seems clear, there are signs that several key fundamental trends that have driven Apple's stock for the past decade are changing. I've described these trends in detail here and here. Here's a summary: It's hard to imagine how a reasonable person could look at those trends and conclude that nothing has changed. So it's not surprising that Apple's price-earnings "multiple" is compressing. That's what happens when fundamental trends start to deteriorate. With Apple now at $500, the key question is, what's next? Will Apple bounce right back and soar to the $1,000+ level that just about everyone was saying was a slam dunk four months ago? Or will Apple keep falling? And, if so, how low will it go? Well, importantly, no one knows. So don't hallucinate that there's some guru somewhere who can tell you. For what it's worth, here are my thoughts on this: Call me crazy, but I actually don't think Apple stock is going to collapse much further from here, at least not soon. The stock might drop to $400 or something--that would be normal volatility--but I don't see it crashing to say, $200, unless something radically changes. Meanwhile, I think there's a good chance that Apple will continue to grow over the next few years, albeit at a slower pace than it has grown over the past few years. And this, I would guess, would leave the stock trading in a range of about $400-$700 for a few years. Specifically, fundamentally, I think the following things will happen over the next few years: The most important theory here from a stock perspective is the belief that Apple's earnings growth will slow, stop, or even decline. This theory is based on the following assumptions: Let's put some numbers on that. In the last fiscal year, Apple generated $157 billion of revenue and $42 billion of profit (26% profit margin). Let's say that, in a couple of years, Apple's revenue grows to $250 billion, but its profit margin declines to 20%. In that scenario, Apple would earn $50 billion in a couple of years. That would be nice earnings growth, but it would be a major slowdown over the last few years. More optimistically, we could say that Apple's revenue might grow to $250 billion but that the company could somehow maintains its profit margin. Then the company would earn $65 billion in a couple of years. That's a lot more than $50 billion. More pessimistically, we could say that Apple's run as the smartphone and tablet champ really is over and that Apple will fail to introduce cool new products and a low-priced smartphone and that its revenue will only grow to $200 billion (or less) and its profit margin will shrink to 20% (or less). This would produce only $40 billion of profit--less than the company is earning now. All of those scenarios, in my opinion, are reasonable. I don't know which will actually happen. But I think the most likely scenario is the first one I laid out... revenue deceleration and margin declines, all of which will lead to stock multiple compression. The good news is that Apple's stock multiple has already compressed. The stock is now trading at 11-times trailing earnings. That is just not a high price for a company of this quality and promise. It's not a screamingly cheap price, either--plenty of companies trade for a lot lower than that--but it's not expensive. But it's a price that suggests that, unless something terrible happens, the stock probably won't completely collapse from here. Of course, there's always the chance that something terrible will happen. One thing that's important to remember when you're thinking about a company and stock like Apple is that amazing stock stories don't go from great to awful overnight. The stories about massive "must-own" stocks that make investors a fortune over many years, only to then collapse and lose almost all of their value over the following several years, are legion. In hindsight, these "round trips" seem obvious: When the stock hit its peak, the 20-20 hindsight goes, any fool could have seen that it was going to completely collapse. The reality, not surprisingly, is different. A light doesn't suddenly just change from green to red. Rather, something small changes, and the stock drops a bit. At first, everyone regards the drop as a "buying opportunity," just like all of the temporary drops of the past several years. Then something else changes, and the stock drops some more. This time, some people start to observe that something has changed. But most people still regard the fall as a buying opportunity. Then more things start to go wrong, and the stock drops some more. Now, everyone knows that things have changed, but the stock price has also dropped, so it doesn't seem to make sense to sell at the lower price--better to wait until the stock comes back a bit. Then more things go wrong. And the stock falls some more. And so on. Eventually, years after the peak, the company is a mess, and the stock is flat on its back, and everyone who didn't sell feels like an absolutely moron. But, importantly, at every step along the way, the stock was trading at a level that likely seemed reasonable relatively to a reasonable range of scenarios about the future. So the mistakes really are only obvious in hindsight. I made that mistake with Yahoo in the 1990s. I thought that Yahoo would be one of the long-term dotcom winners--a must-own stock for the digital generation. I was willing to accept a lot of volatility, because I was a long term investor. So when Yahoo first collapsed, I didn't really mind. But then, over the years, the industry changed, and Yahoo fell farther and farther behind. Now, 15 years later, I own a $20 stock that once traded as high as $108. And I feel like a moron. (True, it could have been much worse. Yahoo could be a $0 stock). Of course, lest you think the moral of that story is "sell at the first sign of trouble!", I also thought that Amazon would be one of the big winners of the digital generation. So I bought and held that stock. Like Yahoo, when the dotcom bubble burst, Amazon collapsed. But, unlike Yahoo, Amazon eventually came back--and then some. My Amazon perseverance, in other words, has paid off--I have gotten a perfectly good return on my investment. My Yahoo perseverance, meanwhile, cost me my shirt. So, the truth is you just never know. And the point about Apple is this: It may be that the new Apple will be just as astounding a company as the old Apple--that all the Apple doubters will soon be shamed and the stock will blast off to the moon again. That's certainly possible. And it's possible that Apple will go through a multi-year period of "consolidation," in which the stock trades sideways in a big trading range. Google did that for years. Amazon did that for years. Microsoft has done that for 12 years. All of those stocks were "must-own" story stocks in their day. It happens all the time. But it's also possible, I am sorry to say, that Apple is in the first stages of a Yahoo-like decline. When Apple collapsed the first time, you will recall, back in the 1990s, Apple didn't go from "top of the world" to near bankruptcy overnight. The collapse took years. It included the hiring of John Sculley. Then the firing of Steve Jobs. Then the firing of John Sculley and the hiring of Gil Amelio. And a bunch of dud products. In other words, it was a long, gradual decline. The same thing could be happening to Apple right now. I don't think that will happen. I hope that doesn't happen. But to argue that it can't happen would be to stuff your head in the sand. Apple's markets are changing. Apple's management is changing.¬† Apple's products are changing, Apple's culture is changing. No one knows for sure yet where those changes will lead. But for the must-own "story stock" of past decade, the next few years are going to be interesting. SEE ALSO: It's Official: Apple Has Lost Its Edge
Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesJeremy Nelson rebuilds his home after it was destroyed when a tornado hit in Joplin, Missouri.The housing recovery is accelerating. Click here for updates &gt; Housing starts surged 12.1 percent in December to 954,000 at an annualized rate. November housing starts were revised down to 851,000 from a prior reading of 861,000. Economists expected starts to rise just 3.3 percent to 890,000. Building permits climbed 0.3 percent to 903,000, missing expectations of a 0.5 percent rise. Below is text from the release via the¬†Census Bureau: BUILDING PERMITS Privately-owned housing units authorized by building permits in December were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 903,000. This is 0.3 percent (¬±1.0%)* above the revised November rate of 900,000 and is 28.8 percent (¬±1.4%) above the December 2011 estimate of 701,000. Single-family authorizations in December were at a rate of 578,000; this is 1.8 percent (¬±1.0%) above the revised November figure of 568,000. Authorizations of units in buildings with five units or more were at a rate of 301,000 in December. An estimated 813,400 housing units were authorized by building permits in 2012. This is 30.3 percent (¬±1.1%) above the 2011 figure of 624,100. HOUSING STARTS Privately-owned housing starts in December were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 954,000. This is 12.1 percent (¬±13.4%)* above the revised November estimate of 851,000 and is 36.9 percent (¬±22.0%) above the December 2011 rate of 697,000. Single-family housing starts in December were at a rate of 616,000; this is 8.1 percent (¬±9.7%)* above the revised November figure of 570,000. The December rate for units in buildings with five units or more was 330,000. An estimated 780,000 housing units were started in 2012. This is 28.1 percent (¬±2.6%) above the 2011 figure of 608,800. HOUSING COMPLETIONS Privately-owned housing completions in December were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 686,000. This is 1.6 percent (¬±14.7%)* above the revised November estimate of 675,000 and is 13.2 percent (¬±13.4%)* above the December 2011 rate of 606,000. Single-family housing completions in December were at a rate of 535,000; this is 3.7 percent (¬±12.3%)* above the revised November rate of 516,000. The December rate for units in buildings with five units or more was 144,000. An estimated 651,400 housing units were completed in 2012. This is 11.4 percent (¬±4.6%) above the 2011 figure of 584,900. Click here for the full release &gt;
UPDATE: Initial jobless claims came in at 335,000 last week, below economists' expectations of a drop to 369,000. Continuing claims rose to 3.214 million, topping estimates of a smaller rise to 3.155 million. Below is a breakdown of states experiencing the largest drop in claims:  Here are the states that reported the largest rise in claims:  Click here for the full release &gt; ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from the latest weekly jobless claims figures, due out in the U.S. at 8:30 AM ET. Economists expect initial claims to fall to 369,000 from last week's 371,000 figure. Continuing claims are expected to rise slightly to 3.155 million from 3.109 million last week. We will have the release LIVE at 8:30 AM ET. Click here for updates &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsUPDATE:¬†Citi earnings are out. Adjusted EPS came in at $0.69 per share. Adjusted revenues also missed estimates, coming in at $18.66 billion ‚Äì down 4 percent from last quarter but up 8 percent from the previous year. Net interest margin expanded to 2.93 percent. The bank had $3.1 billion of net credit losses, down 25 percent. In the fourth quarter, Citi's loan loss reserve release was $86 million versus $1.5 billion in the previous year. The stock is down about 2.5 percent in pre-market trading. Click here to refresh for updates &gt; Below is text from the release: NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Citigroup Inc. today reported net income for the fourth quarter 2012 of $1.2 billion, or $0.38 per diluted share, on revenues of $18.2 billion. This compared to net income of $956 million, or $0.31 per diluted share, on revenues of $17.2 billion for the fourth quarter 2011. CVA/DVA was a negative $485 million in the fourth quarter, mainly resulting from the improvement in Citigroup‚Äôs credit spreads, compared to negative $40 million in the prior year period. Fourth quarter 2012 results also included the previously announced $1.0 billion of repositioning charges ($653 million after-tax), compared to $428 million of repositioning charges ($275 million after-tax) in the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA, fourth quarter revenues were $18.7 billion, up 8% from the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA and repositioning charges, earnings were $0.69 per diluted share, up 68% from the prior year period, as higher revenues, lower core operating expenses and lower net credit losses were partially offset by higher legal and related expenses and a lower net loan loss reserve release. Michael Corbat, Citigroup‚Äôs Chief Executive Officer, said, ‚ÄúOur bottom line earnings reflect an environment that remains challenging- with businesses working through issues like spread compression and regulatory changes- as well as the costs of putting legacy issues behind us. However, we did make progress on several fronts. At 8.7%, we reached the target for our year-end Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio. We continue to have a very liquid balance sheet and a high-quality credit portfolio in our core businesses. It will take some time to work through the challenges of the current environment but realizing our core earnings potential, as well as improving our returns on assets and tangible equity, are critical goals going forward.‚Äù Citigroup full year 2012 net income was $7.5 billion on revenues of $70.2 billion, compared to net income of $11.1 billion on revenues of $78.4 billion for the full year 2011. Full year 2012 results included negative $2.3 billion in CVA/DVA, compared to positive $1.8 billion in the prior year. Citigroup‚Äôs full year 2012 results also included a loss of $4.6 billion ($2.9 billion after-tax) related to the sale of minority investments4, versus a gain of $199 million ($128 million after-tax) in the prior year. In addition to the fourth quarter 2012 repositioning charges of $1.0 billion, Citigroup recorded a $582 million tax benefit5¬†related to the resolution of certain tax audit items in the third quarter 2012. Excluding CVA/DVA and the impact of minority investments, Citigroup revenues were $77.1 billion in 2012, up slightly compared to $76.3 billion in the prior year. Excluding these items as well as the repositioning charges in the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2011 and the tax item in the third quarter of 2012, net income was $11.9 billion in 2012, up 18% compared to 2011, as higher revenues, lower core operating expenses and lower net credit losses were partially offset by higher legal and related expenses and a lower net loan loss reserve release in 2012 compared to 2011. Citigroup revenues¬†of $18.7 billion in the fourth quarter 2012, excluding CVA/DVA, increased 8% from the prior year period, driven by 9% growth in Citicorp revenues and a 2% decline in Citi Holdings revenues primarily resulting from the ongoing wind down of Citi Holdings assets. Citicorp revenues(6)¬†of $17.1 billion in the fourth quarter 2012 included $(510) million of CVA/DVA reported within¬†Securities and Banking. Excluding CVA/DVA, Citicorp revenues were $17.6 billion, an increase of 9% from the prior year period with growth reported in each of the three operating businesses within Citicorp.¬†Securities and Banking¬†revenues grew 47% (excluding CVA/DVA),¬†Global Consumer Banking (GCB)¬†revenues grew 4% and¬†Transaction Services¬†revenues grew 1% from the prior year period. Citi Holdings revenues¬†of $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter 2012 included positive $25 million of CVA/DVA. Excluding CVA/DVA, Citi Holdings revenues were $1.0 billion, down 2% versus the prior year period.¬†Local Consumer Lending¬†drove the decline in Citi Holdings revenues from the prior year period, due to the ongoing reduction in assets. Most of the decline in¬†Local Consumer Lending¬†revenues was offset by higher revenues in the¬†Special Asset Pool¬†reflecting an improvement in asset marks. Total Citi Holdings assets of $156 billion declined $69 billion, or 31%, from the fourth quarter 2011. Citi Holdings assets at the end of the fourth quarter 2012 represented approximately 8% of total Citigroup assets. Citigroup‚Äôs net income¬†rose to $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter 2012 from $956 million in the prior year period. Excluding the impact of CVA/DVA and repositioning charges, Citigroup net income was $2.2 billion, 72% higher than the fourth quarter 2011. Operating expenses of $13.8 billion were 5% higher than the prior year period reflecting the higher repositioning charges and higher legal and related costs, including the previously announced $305 million charge in the fourth quarter 2012 related to the agreement in principle reached with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Federal Reserve Board regarding the independent foreclosure review process. Citigroup‚Äôs cost of credit in the fourth quarter 2012 was $3.2 billion, an increase of 11% over the prior year period, reflecting a $1.4 billion decrease in net loan loss reserve releases offset by a $1.0 billion improvement in net credit losses. Citigroup‚Äôs provision for income taxes was a benefit of $206 million in the fourth quarter 2012, compared to an expense of $91 million in the prior year period. Citigroup‚Äôs allowance for loan losses¬†was $25.5 billion at year end, or 3.9% of total loans, compared to $30.1 billion, or 4.7% of total loans, in the prior year period. The $86 million net release of loan loss reserves in the quarter compared to a $1.5 billion release in the prior year period. Reserve releases in Citicorp of $137 million compared to $805 million in the fourth quarter 2011, predominantly reflecting lower releases in¬†North America GCB, largely related to Citi-branded cards. Citi Holdings recorded a net loan loss reserve build of $51 million in the fourth quarter 2012, compared to a net reserve release of $663 million in the prior year period, as a significantly lower net reserve release of $49 million was more than offset by losses on loan sales of $100 million. Citigroup asset quality remained largely stable to improving in the fourth quarter 2012. Corporate non-accrual loans decreased 28% to $2.3 billion from the fourth quarter 2011, while consumer non-accrual loans grew 17% to $9.2 billion from the fourth quarter 2011, predominantly reflecting the third quarter 2012 OCC guidance regarding the treatment of mortgage loans where the borrower has gone through Chapter 7 bankruptcy which added $1.5 billion to consumer non-accrual loans. Consumer loans that were 90+ days delinquent, excluding the¬†Special Asset Pool, decreased 17% versus the prior year period to $7.7 billion, or 1.9% of consumer loans. Citigroup‚Äôs capital levels¬†and book value per share increased during 2012. As of quarter end, book value per share was $61.57 and tangible book value per share7¬†was $51.19, 1% and 3% increases respectively versus the prior year period. Citigroup‚Äôs book value and tangible book value per share each declined 3% in the fourth quarter 2012 as compared to the third quarter 2012 due to the dilutive impact of the issuance of approximately 96 million shares of common stock during the quarter upon the automatic settlement of the T-DECS issued in December 2009, as previously announced. At quarter end, Citigroup‚Äôs Tier 1 Capital Ratio was 14.1%, its Basel I Tier 1 Common Ratio was 12.7%, and its Basel III Tier 1 Common Ratio was estimated at 8.7%. Click here for the full release &gt; ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from Citi's Q4 2012 earnings announcement at 8 AM ET. Analysts expect the global megabank to report earnings of $0.96 per share, down from $1.06 in the third quarter. Sales are expected to come in at $18.918 billion, down from $19.411 billion in the third quarter. We will have the release LIVE at 8 AM ET. Click here to refresh for updates &gt;
Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images for 20th Century FoxGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Click Here For Updates &gt; Q4 adjusted revenue came in at $19.6 billion, which was below analysts' forecast for $21.0 billion. It earned $0.03 per share, which was a tad higher than the $0.02 forecast by analysts. The stock is trading up 1 percent right now. It should be noted that bank earnings announcements tend to be very noisy, so the reported EPS may not be comparable to the consensus EPS. Here's all of that noise: As previously announced, financial results in the fourth quarter of 2012 were negatively impacted by a provision of $2.7 billion related to the settlements with Fannie Mae with respect to representations and warranties and compensatory fees; other provision items of $2.5 billion which included a $1.1 billion provision for the Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) acceleration agreement, total litigation expense of $0.9 billion and a $0.5 billion provision for obligations related to mortgage insurance rescissions; and $0.7 billion of negative debit valuation adjustments (DVA) and fair value option (FVO) adjustments due to improvement in the company's credit spreads. These items were partially offset by a net income tax benefit of $1.3 billion primarily due to the recognition of foreign tax credits of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries; a gain of $0.4 billion on the previously announced sale of the company's 49-percent stake in Mitsubishi UFJ Merrill Lynch PB Securities; and a positive valuation adjustment on mortgage servicing rights (MSR) of $0.3 billion related to the previously announced servicing sales. Here are some notable items: Read the whole earnings announcement here. SEE ALSO: 10 Countries Hoarding Enormous Piles Of Gold &gt;
As you will recall, two hedge fund giants--Bill Ackman and Dan Loeb--have taken the opposite sides of this trade. Bill Ackman argues that Herbalife is an illegal pyramid scheme and has a price target of $0. Dan Loeb dismisses Ackman's claim as "preposterous" and has bought up 8% of the company. Assuming one of these two doesn't chicken out, someone is going to win big...and the other is going to lose big. And Jim Cramer, it appears, thinks the winner is going to be Dan Loeb:  The consensus is definitely rallying around Loeb and Cramer here. Carl Icahn has joined the fight on the long side (pro-Herbalife). As has hedge-fund manager John Hempton, who wrote a long, entertaining analysis of why Bill Ackman is blowing it, arguing, effectively, that the rich slim Ackman doesn't understand poor fat people. The scuttlebutt is that Ackman's cost basis--the price at which he shorted the stock--is $53 per share. Herbalife has soared since Ackman first clobbered it with his massive and hyper-detailed Powerpoint presentation, but it has still only clawed its way back to $45. So Ackman may still be in the money. For now. SEE ALSO: JOHN HEMPTON: Here's Why Bill Ackman Is Getting Herbalife Wrong
"Our core scenario is that China will grow by 7.4% in 2013," write the analysts at Societe Generale. "There is still a chance however that China could land hard, with growth of less than 6%." This is how they began a recent 30-page report to clients titled What if China lands hard? "The US would suffer the smallest effect from a Chinese hard landing, while Other emerging the eurozone would be more seriously affected," writes SocGen's Wei Yao. More from the note: Does the starting point for the global economy matter?Our what-if analysis of a China hard landing draws on a wide body of academic research that analyses various shocks and how these disseminate to the global economy. These analyses often implicitly assume the starting point of an economy in equilibrium and with a well stocked arsenal of policy ammunition. The current situation is very different, however, with large output gaps in many of the world‚Äôs major economies, ongoing headwinds from deleveraging and policy arsenals already depleted. Add a China hard landing to the mix, and we expect the result would be a far greater uncertainty shock than had the starting point been a world in overall good health. Uncertainty would cause corporations globally to hold back further on investment and hiring decisions (even those not directly exposed to China). And, feedback loops from financial channels would further amplify the uncertainty shock as risky asset prices collapse. At the global level, we estimate that the combined uncertainty shock in our China hard landing scenario could exceed 1% of global GDP. Here's how a hard landing would ripple through the world, according to SocGen: Societe Generale
LONDON (Reuters) - Rio Tinto &lt;RIO.L&gt; sacked chief executive Tom Albanese on Thursday and revealed a $14 billion writedown in connection with his two most significant acquisitions, Mozambican coal and the Alcan aluminum group. A mining heavyweight who joined Rio two decades ago, Albanese will be replaced by iron ore boss Sam Walsh. Doug Ritchie, who led the acquisition and integration of the Mozambican coal assets, was also shown the door. Alaska-trained Albanese had until now survived the consequences of his disastrous $38 billion acquisition of Alcan in 2007, a bruising top-of-the-market deal when Rio was under pressure from rivals to bulk up or be acquired. The deal turned bad as markets crumbled and aluminum prices slumped. Rio has since seen years of losses in aluminum and taken billions in impairments - it had already taken an $8.9 billion charge on those struggling assets a year ago. Walsh was welcomed by investors and analysts as a safe pair of hands, but many questioned whether the veteran would be a long-term solution for the group, and raised concerns over management of a group that also announced the departure of its chief financial officer last July. "It's another black mark in terms of (Albanese's) M&amp;A record and I suppose, given the magnitude of this writedown ... I'm not surprised that he's stepping down with this, nor am I surprised that Doug Ritchie is," analyst Jeff Largey at Macquarie said. Rio had planned to shrink the aluminum division by hiving off most of its Australian and New Zealand assets, but industry sources say it has not been mobbed by buyers. Albanese then spearheaded a deal to buy Mozambique-focused coal miner Riversdale in 2011, fighting off rival bids from steelmakers. There, however, Rio has come up against infrastructure problems more challenging than anticipated. News of Albanese's departure and the writedown, more than twice its 2011 profit, took the market by surprise, knocking Rio shares down 2.5 percent to 3,372 pence in early London trading. "I wasn't expecting the $14 billion writedown," said Tim Schroeders, a portfolio manager at Pengana Capital, which owns Rio Tinto shares. He said the departures pointed to a company under pressure to do a better job of managing its purse strings. "I think it's clearly a case of the board's laid down the law in terms of stricter accountability than we had pre-(crisis)," he said. TAKING THE HIT Rio said on Thursday the impairments would include a charge of around $3 billion relating to the Mozambique business, as well as reductions in the carrying values of Rio's aluminum assets in the range of $10 billion to $11 billion. The group also expects to report a number of smaller asset writedowns in the order of $500 million. The final figures will be included in Rio Tinto's full year results on February 14. "It is non-cash, it doesn't impact valuation, it doesn't impact the earnings near term. But (flagship Mongolian copper-gold mine) Oyu Tolgoi's still to plan," said one London analyst who declined to be named. "For me, it's clearly negative, but it's not the end of the world." Neither Albanese nor Ritchie will take lump-sum payments and both will forfeit bonuses on departure, including outstanding bonus share entitlements earned in previous years. Albanese is the latest chief executive of a major mining company, many of whom took the reins in 2007, to step down or announce his departure. BHP Billiton has said it is seeking a replacement for chief executive Marius Kloppers, and Anglo American has replaced chief executive Cynthia Carroll. (Additional reporting by Sonali Paul in Melbourne, Jim Regan in Sydney and Sarah Young in London) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
On January 25, Timothy Geithner will step down as US Treasury Secretary. A lot of people will say and write a lot of things about him at that point, and it sounds like a good idea to be ahead of the game and provide some perspective. There are voices claiming (there will be many more, promise) that Geithner pulled us out of the recession and the crisis, and saved the economy. That seems presumptuous. It may just as well be true that Geithner has fooled us into thinking that. Just because the stock markets are pulling through so far doesn't mean, let alone prove, that the economy has recovered or been saved. You would need something better, more substantial than that. While acknowledging that relatively strong stock market numbers are at least in potential a great way indeed to fool people about the economy. And going forward we can wax nostalgically about everything Tim has done, and about where the economy is now compared to 4 years ago, but when all else is said and done, there is still just one question that counts: what happened to the debt? What has Geithner done when it comes to debt? As long as you don't know what happened to the debt, you won't know the true state of the economy. Well, Americans still have higher personal debt levels than they ever had before (in fact, the best anti-gun law would be to ban paying for them with credit) and government debt has grown exponentially. Those things at least we know to an extent; when it comes to bank debt, we don't know much of anything. Tim has made sure of that. He's handed trillions of dollars in our money to Wall Street and we haven't received anything in return. Well, yes, we have the semblance of a somewhat stable stock market, but is that worth all that extra debt? Moreover, we still don't know what happened to the debt that caused the crisis in the first place, because Tim made sure it has been kept hidden from view. And how's that a good thing again? Look, you can save banks that are in deep debt trouble, and perhaps that's not necessarily such a bad thing, since letting them fail outright would have been a risky proposition. But you can't make the choice to save banks and not at the same time restructure those debts and expose and prosecute the bankers who put their firms into a situation that necessitated saving them in the first place, and were paid big bonuses for doing it. That is not alright by any stretch of the imagination, either ethically or economically. Because the money used to save them comes from outside of the financial system; it comes from the taxes that everybody pays. And that means it has to be accounted for. But it never was. The only reason the policy - if you can call it that - of handing banks trillions in cheap credit appears to work is because its consequences cannot be felt immediately, but are pushed forward into the future. That doesn't absolve us from having to ask what happened to the debt, though, but we still have no answer to that question, and Tim Geithner carries a substantial part of the blame for that. If you're interested only in yourself, and you're just looking to make a quick buck, sure, things may look good. And if you think you can best achieve your goals by things staying the same, by keeping the system going as it is, yeah, you're likely to think that Tim Geithner has done a swell job, because from that point of view he has saved you. But if you care about anything that goes beyond just today, and beyond the few square miles that make up your world, if you care about your family, your friends, your kids and their future, Tim Geithner is not your man. He set up the system so it would continue to provide fast money for the horses with blinders, but he's done it with money that everyone else is on the hook for. Just not today, not right away. And that plays perfectly to our proverbial human short - term - attention span: Hey, look at the markets, they're doing fine. We're in recovery. We left the crisis behind. We made it. But what's that bulge under the carpet there in the corner? Is that perhaps what happened to the debt? We tell ourselves we love our children. That what we need to do is put aside money for their education. That what they need for their futures is money. And that's it. It's not about the world we leave for them. It's not about the debt we leave for them. But it should be. The education we buy for our kids today will mean very little if and when they will be forced to pay back all our debts. We should face up to the responsibility for it ourselves. We don't. We prefer the cloud cuckoo land illusion that Tim Geithner has spun before our eyes. We prefer to let our kids deal with reality. The main problem from a purely technical point of view with the way Geithner has gone about business is that it's to a large extent zombie money that drives markets today, money that would not have existed if debts had been properly restructured. If anytime in the future, either driven by markets or governments, banks are forced to restructure their debt after all, this poses a gargantuan risk to both the financial system and the overall economy. And we'll have Geithner to thank for that. Not only him, there's Ben Bernanke, Alan Greenspan, Hank Paulson and many more. Still, Geithner has had the option and the power to do the right thing, for four long years, and declined. Obama said this about Tim Geithner recently: "When the history books are written, Tim Geithner is going to go down as one of our finest Secretaries of the Treasury..." And that the "unofficial" saying at the Treasury is "no peacocks, no jerks, no whiners" and "Few embody that ideal better than Tim Geithner.". That says much more about Obama than it does about Geithner. The reality is that Obama will go down as one of the worst American presidents in history. Because four more years of the above will sink the US economy to levels not even imagined today, and Obama will be seen as an accomplice if not the main perpetrator of a whole series of - financial - crimes against the people. The president that brought the country to its knees. That is inevitable precisely because Geithner and Obama have done nothing at all for four years to restructure bank debt. All they've done in that time is keep the existing financial system, which was then and is now as bankrupt as any industry has ever been, standing upright. Or more correctly: appear to be standing upright. What the president and his Treasurer have done is feed zombies. With - future - human flesh. With the future prospects of our children. Obama has said that what Wall Street did was unethical but not illegal, but that is up to the courts to decide, not the president, and not Congress. If you leave the decision making in a time of crisis to those who stand to profit most from keeping things as they are, it would perhaps be foolish to expect them to not try and do just that. Thing is, they can do so only by throwing others under the bus. And since this crisis is the biggest, the most widespread and the worst we've ever seen, it means just about everyone else will end up under that bus. Even the majority of those who think they would be better off keeping the system going: be careful what you wish for. Timothy Geithner is a Robert Rubin protÈgÈ. Under Bill Clinton, then Treasury Secretary and Citigroup made man Rubin, assisted by Greenspan and Larry Summers, set the terms for US government (non) policy for derivatives that stands to this day. Geithner certainly never touched it after he and Summers took over the Obama finance team. And now he will be succeeded by Jack Lew, who was director of the White House Office of Management and Budget when Rubin and Summers were there. Lew isn't just a revolving door man, he does you one better: he went from K Street lobbyist to Citigroup director to the White House, rinse and repeat, pocketing a million dollar bonus from Citi three months after it received billions in taxpayer bailouts. Once again, if we let them, it would perhaps be foolish to expect them to not try and do these things. Jack Lew's nomination tells us all we need to know about Barack Obama's intentions. Which are to let the bankers and their shareholders continue to hide their debts, and continue to use the zombie money they thus seem to have to make leveraged wagers whose profits they can pocket and whose losses they can pass on to you. And you can continue to play the game as well as long as it lasts. So you can, if you're lucky, hold on to your job and your home and use your money to pay for your children's education. If you do, it might be a good idea to take a look at what it is they learn. Make sure they're never tempted to look under the carpet. Or they may turn against you.
By EconMattersEIA ReportThe weekly EIA report came out today and one of the noteworthy data points was the Cushing, Oklahoma storage numbers. Already at a record, Cushing added another 1.8 million barrels to storage sending total Cushing stocks to 51.9 million barrels of oil in storage facilities at the energy hub.There has been 6.3 million barrels of oil added to Cushing during the last 6 weeks. To put these build numbers into perspective, Cushing oil inventories stood at 28.3 million barrels for this time a year ago, which is a build of 23.6 million barrels in a year.EconmattersSeaway Pipeline ExpansionThe Seaway pipeline was recently expanded to 400,000 barrels per day from 100,000 barrels per day, and many analysts have predicted that this would solve the Cushing oil glut. But it is looking more and more that what the Seaway pipeline offers is a cheaper mode of delivery out of Cushing, and the real benefit is one of logistical optionality for transportation.Further Reading - Keystone XL Pipeline: Economics, Idealism and PoliticsHowever, it is shaping up due to the sheer size of these build in inventories at Cushing that the Seaway pipeline is not a magic solution for the supply and demand fundamentals at play in the oil industry in the United States, there is just more US production, than there is US infrastructure in place to deal with the trending upturn in this production.Oil is Fungible In short, the US and global oil model isn`t set up for the United States to be producing more than 7 million barrels of oil per day. Even if the Seaway pipeline could send 4 million barrels of oil out of Cushing, it wouldn`t make a difference because Oil is fungible, so without major cuts somewhere else in the global supply chain, then you‚Äôre going to have supply andstorage builds somewhere in the supply chain. Econmatters Saudi Arabia can only cut back production so muchThe Saudi`s have already cut back production to fifteen month lows, how long is that going to continue as they need oil revenue just like everyone else? So Cushing is just a reflection and end point for the delivery of increasing US production, which ultimately is building more than there is demand from refiners for producing products, even with an increase in exporting of gasoline and other petroleum products. Cushing never was landlockedThis should have been apparent to analysts as rail has been delivering Oil to refiners during this domestic boom, and so are barges taking oil out of Cushing, so large amounts of oil are getting to refiners. Some of it before it even gets to Cushing, and some after with the Seaway pipeline, and barges out of Cushing; and with the spread in 2012 of as much as 25 dollars, there were major incentives to get US oil to refiners in a myriad of ways. Econmatters Cushing builds reflective of bigger problemYet we have almost doubled Cushing`s inventories in a year. This points to a much bigger problem with analysts missing entirely, thinking this was just a Cushing log jam problem. This is seeing the trees, and missing the overall forest, Cushing is just a reflection of the bigger problem, there is just too damn much oil sloshing around the world right now with nowhere to go. Further Reading - Cushion 50 Million, Boom &amp; Bust Cycles, U.S. Debt &amp; RecessionYou see this in stories about Nigerian crude for February delivery being unsold and stuck on cargo ships because there are no buyers with the increase in US domestic production. Iraq is producing more oil, and they need the revenue so expect more oil coming out of Iraq for the next decade with each year producing more than the previous. The world is producing more oil than is consumed each dayThe world global supply chain is producing more oil than the world needs every day, and this means storage has to build somewhere, and whether it is Cushing, or Nigeria, or China it has to be stored somewhere. Econmatters In the US, Cushing has expanded storage facilities the past couple of years, and has been a default place to send the extra oil. But even Cushing is rapidly reaching capacity limits, and even if on the margin the Seaway pipeline takes out more oil, refiners can only handle so much more before they become the bottleneck in the equation.Further Reading - Oil and Gas Markets End 2012 With Swollen Inventory LevelsUS Refineries not easy to buildRemember, refiners are not easy to build, and the US has only relatively recently ramped up domestic production, so even with substantial increases in fuel exports, there just are not enough US refineries to handle the increase in US oil production. In short, the oil model of the last decade was not set up with the US being a major producer. The US production increases is throwing the global supply models a major curve ball. Therefore, the only way that Cushing inventories are going to go down substantially is if more US refineries are built, and that could take three to four years, if they are built at all given the regulatory and financial hurdles that have prevented progress in this area over the last decade. Unintended ConsequencesThe bottom line is that the Seaway pipeline is no cure for what ails Cushing inventory builds. For what ails Cushing is the fact that nobody thought about the unintended consequences of a boom in US oil production due to high prices for the past decade. The global economy has slowed down from the peak in 2007, but prices have remained high, this resulted in increased production projects globally, and the rise in US production just sent the supply levels over the edge. Furthermore, nobody ever planned or expected that the US would start producing with these numbers ever again. This has thrown the whole supply chain on its back, Cushing is just a reflection of this fact, there is more oil than the world needs right now, and the world definitely didn`t need an increase in US production. Cushing builds still a problemAs a result you get Cushing, the manifestation of what happens when the unexpected happens before the oil models know what to do with the extra supply. You do not get the kind of builds at Cushing, with a new pipeline in existence for six months, a hefty spread, and rails transporting oil at unheard of levels, unless there is a much bigger problem than just increasing the Seaway pipeline by 300,000 barrels per day. The Seaway Pipeline just steals business from Railroads &amp; BargesSo Seaway doesn`t solve the Cushing problem as many have hoped. All Seaway does is maybe take some business from barges and railroads in the transportation of the product. But the problem was much bigger than these people ever realized, because Cushing never represented a landlocked, logistics equation. Cushing builds represents the fact that right now there is just too damn much oil that is being produced versus consumption needs for that oil. So it has to be stored somewhere, and Cushing is one of the places. Too many chefs in the kitchenThe real problem is that nobody ever planned for the US to be producing 7 million barrels of oil every day and rising, there is just not enough demand in the world for this extra oil, so it has to be stored because everyone needs the money these days. And until prices drop substantially, no one is going to cut back producing this black gold.¬© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle     Read more posts on EconMatters ¬ª
PolandMFA / FlickrMarkets are mixed early in the European trading session. England's FTSE is flat. France's CAC 40 is up 0.5 percent. Germany's DAX is down 0.2 percent. Spain's IBEX is up 0.5 percent. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.7 percent. This follows yesterday's flat U.S. trading session. There isn't a whole lot of notable market-moving news. Dow futures are down 12 points, but S&amp;P futures are up a tad. Click Here For Updates &gt;
Of all the shady practices employed by mortgage lenders, few are as cruel to underwater homeowners as dual tracking. In a nutshell, it's what happens when one arm of a lender works with a borrower to modify their mortgage, while a completely different arm pushes through paperwork to have them foreclosed simultaneously. Imagine getting kicked out of your house one day, then getting a letter in the mail congratulating you on your shiny new mortgage rate a month later.¬† It's no fun, and finally, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is making good on its promise to keep it from happening again. The agency rolled out a host of new rules Thursday that will change the way lenders deal with borrowers. Here's our favorite:¬† Restricted Dual-Tracking:¬†Servicers must not make the first notice or filing required for the foreclosure process until a¬†mortgage loan account is more than 120 days delinquent. This will give borrowers reasonable time¬†to submit modification applications.¬†Servicers must not start a foreclosure proceeding if an application is pending for a loan modification¬†or other alternative to foreclosure. For borrowers like Minnesota resident Carrie Haskamp, the change is too little too late, but it will undoubtedly make a difference for struggling homeowners down the line. You can read a full list of the new mortgage servicing rules here. Here are the Cliff's Notes:¬† -When borrowers miss two payments, lenders must inform them of what actions they can take to get back on track.-Lenders have to make sure borrowers have direct and easy access to the humans handling their paperwork.-Lenders can't foreclose on homeowners willy nilly. They have to consider all foreclosure alternatives first.-Lenders have to reply to mortgage modification applications at least 37 days before they plan on selling the home at auction.-Clear mortgage statements-Fair warning before lenders mess with interest rates for adjustable-rate mortgages¬†-Notify homeowners before they force them to purchase costly property insurance ¬†-Lenders must credit mortgage payments the same day they're paid-Lenders must correct any account errors within 30 days, or at least investigate. SEE ALSO: These are the 10 best places to live if you want to lose weight &gt;¬†
It‚Äôs easy to fall prey to misconceptions and generalizations about places we‚Äôve never been: to assume everyone in the United States drives big cars, all the French love croissants and all Canadians play hockey. There are many misconceptions about investing in developing markets, and Africa certainly has its fair share, but it‚Äôs dangerous to make sweeping generalizations. It‚Äôs impossible to know everything about this huge and diverse continent (the second largest in the world by land mass and population) so¬† my team‚Äôs approach has been to keep our minds open to the growth possibilities while keeping our eyes open to the potential risks. Africa isn‚Äôt Always Africa Mark Mobius in Libya There is often this idea that ‚ÄúAfrica is Africa,‚Äù as if every country there is the same. Most people don‚Äôt realize how diverse the landscape, the economies and the people are. There are more than 1,000 languages spoken on the continent, with climates ranging from hot deserts to tropical rainforests to frozen glaciers. A common misconception is that Africa is plagued by social ills. We don‚Äôt deny violence, political unrest and poverty exist in areas in Africa, and we have to be cognizant of these serious issues. But that‚Äôs not the whole story. ¬†There is also natural beauty, cultural diversity, and business progress taking place. ¬†I‚Äôve often been asked whether I have felt unsafe traveling in underdeveloped countries, but I‚Äôve been fortunate enough to say my most frightening experience in Africa has been getting stuck in an elevator! Seeing is Believing An important part of our investment selection process is conducting in-depth research on each company we consider, and making long-term projections based on company characteristics and the environment that company exists in. Long-term stories can become very short-term in frontier markets because of the generally faster growth and dramatic changes taking place as a result of faster communications and the entry of large amounts of foreign investments.¬† Nevertheless, in many cases, we need to be patient and allow the long-term story to unfold. I‚Äôm a firm believer in the value of first-hand experience, which is why my team and I visit as many countries, and companies, as we can. Talking to people face to face provides valuable insight into the real life difficulties they must manage. An issue that some companies in Africa have been confronting is how to operate successfully in an environment where there are government restrictions and, unfortunately, corruption. We know there is corruption all around the world, but it is certainly salient in Africa. When we visit a company there, we can‚Äôt assume that the tax rate we see on paper is the actual tax rate that the company has to pay; there may be other costs hidden under the table. The good news I have found is that many government leaders are increasingly willing to talk about the problem openly, and seem to be working to find ways to stamp it out. Another problem in some African countries is infrastructure, or, rather, the lack thereof. We have learned that if a company is running a factory, it may not have access to public power and has to generate its own power. We look at specific obstacles like this that could impact a company‚Äôs operations, and at what cost. These are things that are less likely to be ascertained by just looking at balance sheets or profit-and-loss statements. Not All Roads Lead to ‚ÄòYes‚Äô At first blush, you might think infrastructure, being underdeveloped in many places, would present a compelling investment case. However, the opportunities may be limited in Africa because of government monopolies or subsidies. For example, electricity in Nigeria is subsidised and subject to restrictions which make it generally unprofitable to be in the business of power generation there. Similarly, when a government is subsidizing the price of gasoline, it‚Äôs difficult to run a profitable refinery. These are the sorts of details we have to consider in each country we visit. These potentially problematic policies do seem to be changing in many places across Africa, which I think is a good thing. With the support of the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and other international organizations, we are gradually seeing a more business-friendly climate in many African countries. Another tempting assumption is that Africa‚Äôs future is dependent solely on raw commodities like oil, cocoa, and minerals. Natural resources and mining are very important, and of interest to us as investors, but the economic growth drivers in Africa are as diverse as information technology, solar electricity, beer and cut flowers. Many Europeans probably don‚Äôt realize there‚Äôs a good chance the roses adorning their tables were grown in Africa, flown in by high speed jets and part of a complex and efficient distribution system. We are also interested in industries and sectors tied to the rising power of the consumer. There is a need for banking services (particularly mobile banking) and penetration of telecommunications in many African countries is very low, so there‚Äôs a good opportunity for growth. Food and beverage companies have also piqued our interest. There is a growing middle class in Africa, with evolving tastes. For example, Nigerians have a particular thirst for one of Ireland‚Äôs iconic ¬†domestic beers‚Äîmore is consumed there than in Ireland! Africa appears to hold a lot of potential for growth and we believe many countries there could remain global growth leaders in the coming years. The IMF has projected that during the next five years, 10 of the 20 fastest-growing economies will be in Sub-Saharan Africa, and two will be in North Africa.¬† Growth of course is important, but it‚Äôs not just the rate of growth but quality that is important for Africa‚Äôs long-term potential to be realized. The burgeoning middle class needs to be nurtured and supported, with a little help from prudent policy, and a constructive global economic backdrop. For the patient investor, Africa appears to be a story worth revisiting for some time to come. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª
(Reuters) - Top executives at Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt; have been considering deep cuts to staffing levels and pay for at least two years, but feared too many layoffs would leave the firm unprepared for an eventual pickup in business, people familiar with the bank said. They instead chipped away at staff levels and focused on non-personnel expenses that are less painful to cut. But investors pressured the bank to cut costs further, the sources said, and on Wednesday, Goldman gave in. The largest standalone investment bank said in the fourth quarter it cut the percentage of revenues it pays to employees in half to 21 percent. That brings the ratio for the entire year to its second-lowest level since the bank went public in 1999. With less money going to employees, more was available for shareholders. The bank's annualized return on equity - which measures how well the bank uses shareholder money to generate profit - jumped to 16.5 percent in the fourth quarter from 5.8 percent a year earlier. "Arguably for the first time, Wall Street's shareholders are getting the lion's share of the profitability," said Brad Hintz, a former Morgan Stanley treasurer who is now an analyst at Bernstein Research. The bank's quarterly profit tripled, helped by gains from investments and bond trading as well, and investors sent its shares up 4 percent to $141.09, their highest level since 2006. Analysts said other banks are likely to feel pressure to keep their compensation expenses in check after Goldman's results. But for Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;, the second-biggest stand-alone U.S. investment bank, paying out a lower percentage of its revenue to employees could be tough because analysts believe its revenue fell last year. Goldman missed the worst pitfalls of the financial crisis but has suffered public relations embarrassments from trades it executed during the crisis and from executives' comments afterward. The bank, along with the rest of the industry, is struggling to figure out how to navigate the post-crisis world, in which clients trade less and regulations and capital rules crimp profits in many businesses. Whether Goldman maintains its discipline on pay will be a test for Harvey Schwartz, who succeeds David Viniar as CFO at the end of this month. On a conference call with investors, Schwartz declined to provide a target for compensation levels, but emphasized that shareholder returns would be one crucial factor in deciding how much revenue goes to employee pay. "We don't look to overpay anybody," Schwartz said. YEARS OF COST-CUTTING Goldman first publicly signaled its intent to get serious about cost-cutting in July 2011, when Viniar outlined a plan to reduce costs by $1.2 billion a year, partly by laying off employees. Since then, Goldman expanded that cost-cutting plan by $500 million and has winnowed staff almost every quarter. Staff reductions have targeted big earners, including dozens of partners, who have left since the start of 2011. Sources inside the bank expect that exodus to continue this year as Goldman makes way for younger employees to move up the ladder. Analysts say that strategy is common. "The polite way to characterize it is a ‚Äògenerational change' - where you promote the young guys and you don't pay them," said Hintz. In 2008, as the bank's revenue dropped, average pay per employee fell as well. While the average Goldman worker brought home nearly $622,000 in pay in 2006, that figure dropped to $367,057 per person in 2011, with the biggest decline happening between 2007 and 2008. But the percentage of revenue that the bank paid to employees did not stop falling until now. The fourth-quarter drop meant that for all of 2012, Goldman paid employees 37.9 percent of the bank's revenue, down from 42 percent in the previous year. "Management appears to be doing a superb job at keeping all expenses down and, in particular, retaining quality people without giving all the revenue away in the form of compensation," said Joe Terril, president of St. Louis-based investment firm Terril &amp; Co, who invests in bank stocks. WALL STREET WOES Many banks are facing the same long-term revenue pressure as Goldman, and analysts expect layoffs across Wall Street. Morgan Stanley plans 1,600 job cuts in 2013, while Goldman cut 900 jobs in 2012, equal to about 3 percent of its workforce. But laying off staff may not be enough, and employee pay may have to fall too. Hintz, the Bernstein Research analyst, estimates that across Wall Street average pay in trading businesses could fall 20 percent. "There's only one way to get returns up on Wall Street, and that's to cut the compensation of the employees," Hintz said. Investors have been pressuring banks to pay less of their revenue to employees. In 2011, investors pressed Morgan Stanley executives to pay somewhere closer to 30 percent of the bank's revenue to employees, instead of around 50 percent, according to one person at those meetings. (Reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra; Editing by Dan Wilchins, Paritosh Bansal and Ryan Woo) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
John Moore/Getty ImagesDecember foreclosure activity was at its lowest level since April 2007, down 21 percent year-over-year, according to RealtyTrac's latest foreclosure report. Foreclosure activity was down 10 percent month-over-month, with 162,511 U.S. properties receiving foreclosure filings last month.¬† For 2012, foreclosure filings were down 3 percent YoY, and down 36 percent from their peak in 2010. Here are some details from the report for the month of December: Fourth quarter 2012: All of 2012: But it isn't all good news, with a rise in foreclosure inventory last year,¬†Daren Blomquist, vice-president of RealtyTrac warns that "2013 is likely to be book-ended by two discrete jumps in foreclosure activity". "We expect to see continued increases in judicial foreclosure states near the beginning of the year as lenders finish catching up with the backlogs in those states, and another set of increases in some non-judicial states near the end of the year as lenders adjust to the new laws and process some deferred foreclosures in those states.‚Äù Here's a look at national foreclosure activity since 2005: RealtyTrac  Note: Foreclosure activity is distinguished from foreclosure rate. The former refers to total foreclosure filings while the rate details 1 in ever X housing units received a foreclosure filing.
