APNew Jersey Governor Chris Christie and Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones.The New York Giants, who play in New Jersey, are getting roughed up by the Dallas Cowboys tonight. It's quite cozy in the stadium skybox of Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, however. New Jersey governor Chris Christie was just shown on national TV sitting right next to the happy Mr. Jones. And they're accompanied by Republican National Committee chair Reince Priebus, POLITICO's Dylan Byers reports. So is Governor Christie secretly a Cowboys fan? Or is he in Dallas on other (2016) business? Either way, he's doing that Chris Christie thing that everyone loves: Showing that he has the balls to piss off his team. UPDATE:¬†BI Politics editor Josh Barro reports that Gov. Christie is, in fact, a Cowboys fan. And in typical Chris Christie fashion (that balls thing), he's not even secret about it: "I'm a¬†Dallas Cowboys¬†fan," the governor told NFL Network in a segment that aired¬†Sunday¬†morning. "I saw Roger Staubach play for the first time, and this was 1971, and I became a huge Staubach fan. And as a result, a Cowboys fan, and I've been one ever since." How do Christie's constituents feel about that development? Exactly as you might expect. "Oh, they hate it," Christie said. "Giants fans, obviously, are more hateful of my rooting interests, but, you know, I told them right from the beginning when I was running in 2009. You get asked those kind of questions and I didn't try to hide it. I'm a Cowboys fan, I'm proud of it, and you got to be true to the team you've been rooting for your whole life." Chalk up more independent votes for 2016 Presidential candidate Christie.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidThe Nasdaq Market site in New York's Times Square.More information is not necessarily better information. That's the conclusion from an October 2012 New York Federal Reserve study¬†flagged Sunday by Chris Dixon.¬† In "Have Financial Markets Become More Informative?",¬†Jennie Bai, Thomas Philippon, and Alexi Savov argue that over the past 50 years, markets have not grown more efficient about how to allocate capital, at least via stocks. They start out by offering the standard view of what should have happened: An¬†increase in the supply of information leads to greater price dispersion as markets differentiate¬†among firms. As a result, market prices become stronger predictors of earnings. The size¬†of the predictable component is given by the dispersion [scope of the range] in market prices times their forecasting coefficient. They next define their variable, which they call "predicted variation." This is a score of the ability of stock prices to predict earnings. Or as they put it, it is "the size of the predictable component of earnings that is due to prices." So in other words, they want to know whether the size of the predictable component of earnings has grown. And it has not. Here's the key graph showing that predicted variation declined after 1980 and has remained stuck ever since. New York Fed Instead, here's what they found: What happened? The researchers say it may have something to do with the introduction of the NASDAQ in the early '70s and a proliferation of tech firms that are harder to value. we examine S&amp;P 500 firms whose characteristics have remained¬†stable. In contrast, running the same regression on the universe of firms appears to show a¬†decline in informativeness. We argue, however, that this decline is consistent with a changing composition of firms: the representative firm today is harder to value. Consistent with this¬†interpretation, we show that the proportion of firms with a high dispersion of analyst earnings¬†forecasts has increased following the introduction of NASDAQ. But they conclude by arguing that whatever IT improvements markets now enjoy, it has not made markets better: These results appear to contradict the view that improvements in information technology¬†have increased the availability of low-cost information. A possible explanation is that the¬†relevant constraint for investors lies in the ability to interpret information rather than the¬†ability to record it. If this is the case, a rise in the quantity of data need not improve¬†informativeness or the allocation of resources. Faster trading is not smarter trading, apparently.
ReutersChinese consumer prices climbed 2.6% year-over-year (YoY) in August. This was in line with economists expectations. This compares with a 2.7% YoY rise in July. Meanwhile, producer prices fell 1.6%. This beat expectations for a 1.7% decline. This also compares with a 2.3% fall the previous month. PPI has been down for five straight months. But economists believe that producer prices bottomed out in July and the latest data suggests this is the case.
White HouseOn Friday, the White House put out some charts seeking to put August's jobs report in context. Here's the key one. When you look at non-farm payroll growth on a 12-month average basis, you lose the month-to-month noise, and you see that the job situation has been basically unchanged for the last 30 months: Adding jobs at a pace of about 2 million per year. August's disappointing report doesn't materially change that. The problem with the August report isn't that it was bad; it's that it wasn't good. For the past few months, it had looked like the job situation was maybe getting better, with the pace of job growth speeding up to around 2.5 million a year. Now it's becoming clear that we haven't broken out of the funk. The key question is, can we expect this pattern to change? Is there reason to expect the pace of job growth to improve soon, so that labor force participation can start increasing again? There are a couple of reasons for optimism, but they are fully offset by reasons for pessimism. Reasons for optimism: Reasons for pessimism: So, that's depressing: The long jobs drought isn't ending and it's not clear that it's going to end anytime soon. But there is at least one thing the White House can do to quickly improve the outlook: nominate Janet Yellen to lead the Fed.
It looks like Japan is going to get another boost of public-spending fueled stimulus. Over the weekend, Tokyo won its bid to host the Olympics in the summer of 2020, defeating Istanbul and Madrid. The Nikkei is ripping out of the gate, with a gain of over 2.7%. Nikkei.com The yen is also weakening, as the dollar vs the yen is back above 100. Here's a computer-generated look at the main Tokyo Stadium that Japan plans to build for the games. Reuters
This past Saturday saw big elections in Australia, which saw conservative leader Tony Abbott sweet his way into the Prime Minister's office. Abbott ran a pro-business campaign, promising to eliminate Australia's carbon tax and also reduce taxes on the mining sector. Anyway, it seems that this is all priced into markets. Stocks are barely up, and the Aussie dollar is essentially flat from Friday's close after a very minor initial pop. FinViz
LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's finance minister¬†George Osborne¬†will declare on Monday that an accelerating economy vindicates his austerity program and accuse his political opponents of promising a "disastrous" change of course. Breaking his silence on the signs of a revival, Osborne will argue that a run of strong figures suggests the government has won the economic argument, having ignored opposition¬†Labour calls to cut more slowly. With an eye on the next election in 2015, Osborne will acknowledge the challenge of reviving living standards - an issue taken up by¬†Labour¬†- while stressing that the recovery could slide "back to square one" if Britain borrowed more. "Amazingly, even with the evidence we now have, there are still those calling for the government to abandon its economic plan in order to spend and borrow more. But to do so would be disastrous," Osborne will say, according to extracts of a planned speech on the British economy released by his office in advance. Labour¬†dismissed Osborne's comments as an attempt to "rewrite history" and said his policies had stifled growth for three years. Prime Minister¬†David Cameron's¬†Conservatives¬†came to power in 2010 in a coalition with the Liberal Democrats, promising to cut public spending, reduce a record budget deficit and rebuild an economy battered by the global financial crisis. Osborne's policies came under intense pressure as Britain's economy struggled for three years and he faced calls in April from the¬†International Monetary Fund¬†to speed up spending. But a surprisingly strong run of business surveys and data in recent weeks suggests Britain's economy is "turning the corner", Osborne will say, although fixing the budget is far from done. "More tough choices will be required after the next election to find many billions of further savings and anyone who thinks those decisions can be ducked is not fit for government." Labour¬†has a narrow lead over Cameron's¬†Conservatives¬†in most polls. However,¬†Labour leader¬†Ed Miliband¬†and his would-be finance minister¬†Ed Balls trail Cameron¬†and Osborne when voters are asked who they trust to handle the economy. Center-left¬†Labour, which held power from 1997 to 2010, saw its economic credibility undermined by the financial crisis. WRONG SORT OF GROWTH? In his speech, Osborne will argue that Britain's slow growth since the financial crisis was not due to his policies and will seek to press his advantage over¬†Labour¬†by declaring that "those in favor of a Plan B have lost the argument". He will also reject claims that Britain is seeing "the wrong sort of growth", based on unsustainable debt. "The evidence suggests tentative signs of a balanced, broad-based and sustainable recovery," Osborne will say, adding that he would be vigilant to risks, including a premature tightening of financial conditions as market interest rates rise. Labour¬†finance spokesman¬†Chris Leslie¬†accused Osborne of presiding over "three years of flatlining" that hurt families. "This desperate attempt to rewrite history will not wash when, on every test he set himself, this chancellor's plan A has badly failed - on living standards, growth and the deficit," he said. As the parties prepare for their annual conferences later this month,¬†Labour's attacks on Cameron's¬†Conservatives¬†will center on the charge that the recovery has left behind people who are less well off. "This is a recovery for the few. This is an unfair recovery. This is an unequal recovery," Miliband will say in a speech on Tuesday. (Editing by William Schomberg; desking by Christopher Wilson)
Note: This is an update on an earlier post through the August employment report. In April, I posted two graphs comparing changes in public and private sector payrolls during the Bush and Obama presidencies. Several readers asked if I could add Presidents Reagan and Clinton (I've also added the single term of President George H.W. Bush).† Below are updates through the August report. Important: There are many differences between these periods. Overall employment was smaller in the '80s, so a better comparison might be to look at the percentage change, but this gives an overall view of employment changes. The first graph shows the change in private sector payroll jobs from when each president took office†until the end of their term(s).††President George H.W.†Bush only served one term, and President Obama†is in the first year of†his second term.†  Mr. G.W. Bush (red)†took office following the bursting of the stock market bubble, and left during the bursting of the housing bubble.† Mr. Obama (blue) took office during the financial crisis and great recession.† There was also a significant recession in the early '80s right after Mr. Reagan (yellow) took office.There was a recession towards the end of President G.H.W. Bush (purple) term, and Mr Clinton (light blue) served for eight years without a recession. Click on graph for larger image.Calculated RiskThe first graph is for private employment only. The employment recovery during Mr. G.W. Bush's (red)†first term was very sluggish, and private employment was down 946,000 jobs at the end of his first term.†† At the end of†Mr. Bush's second term, private employment was collapsing, and†there were net 665,000 private sector†jobs lost during Mr. Bush's two terms.†  Private sector employment increased slightly under President G.H.W. Bush (purple), with 1,490,000 private sector jobs added. Private sector employment increased by 20,864,000 under President Clinton (light blue)†and 14,688,000 under President Reagan (yellow).There were only 1,933,000 more private sector jobs at the end of Mr. Obama's first term.††At†this early†point in†Mr. Obama's second term, there are now 3,254,000 more private sector jobs than when he initially took office. CalculatedRiskA big difference between the presidencies has been public sector employment.† Note the bumps in public sector employment due to the decennial Census in 1990, 2000, and 2010.† The public sector grew during Mr. Reagan's terms (up 1,414,000), during Mr. G.H.W. Bush's term (up 1,127,000), during Mr. Clinton's terms (up 1,934,000), and during Mr. G.W. Bush's terms (up 1,748,000 jobs). However†the public sector has declined significantly since Mr. Obama took office (down 752,000 jobs). These job losses†have mostly been†at the state and local level, but more recently at the Federal level.† This has been†a significant drag on overall employment. Looking forward,†I expect the economy to continue to expand for the next few years, so I don't expect a sharp decline in employment as happened†at the end of†Mr. Bush's 2nd term (In 2005 and 2006 I was warning of a coming recession due to the bursting of the housing bubble). A big question is when the public sector layoffs will end.† It appears the cutbacks are mostly over at the state and local levels, but there are ongoing cutbacks at the Federal level.
This week, we gave you two extremely bullish projections for the future of solar energy in America. The focus was on distributed generation in both cases. This includes all solar installations ó even small ones on your home rooftop. Interestingly, the renewable energy revolution is being led by independent power producers and not mainline utility companies.† While net generation among the former has climbed 1,283% since September 2006, electricity from solar gained just 112% for the latter during the same period. See the chart below: EIA Currently, solar still only meets less than 1%†of U.S electricity needs. And it will stay that way for a while.† That's because some big utilities are†actively resisting solar, arguing that the cost of net metering schemes ó which allow renewable energy users to sell back excess power to ó are often being paid by residents who can't afford solar. Here's how Dave Gram of the Associated Press†recently quoted a rep for a small utility in Vermont, which is being forced to roll back its net metering scheme: Not collecting those costs from all members "results in a cost shift to those members without net metered installations," Washington's general manager, Patricia Richards, said in an email. "As a not for profit electric utility, which is owned by our members, our only recourse for recovering insufficient revenue is to increase rates." At the same time, utilities are also recognizing that any kind of curb in renewable use is just a stopgap.  Long term, they're probably in trouble. Here's the New York Times' Diane Cardwell quoting Clark Gellings of the Electric Power Research Institute, a utility industry association: "We did not get in front of this disruption...It may be too late." And earlier this year, Bloomberg's Chris Martin and Noreen S. Malik quoted the CEO of Duke Energy, the largest utility owner in the country, that solar was truly disruptive. "It is obviously a potential threat to us over the long term,î said Jim Rogers, chairman and chief executive officer of Duke Energy Corp. (DUK), the largest U.S. utility owner. ... ìThereís been a huge effort to build solar on the rooftop, both residential and commercial...All of this is leading to a disintermediation of us from our customers.î ... ìIf the cost of solar panels keeps coming down, installation costs come down and if they combine solar with battery technology and a power management system, then we have someone just using us for backup.î† A knotty issue.
From Nomura, a useful, little calendar of the (known) market-moving events coming up the rest of the month. Simple: Nomura
September is National Honey Month, which aims to promote beekeeping in the U.S. and celebrates the end of the honey collection season. We visited legendary economist Gary Shilling, who is a recreational beekeeper and has an apiary in the back yard of his New Jersey home, last year and he told us all about the challenges and benefits of beekeeping. New Jersey is not necessarily known for its honey production. In fact, it is one of the lowest honey producing states in the country. The top five honey producing state last year were North Dakota, South Dakota, Florida, California and Florida. Watch below what beekeeping entails. Produced by Kamelia Angelova &amp; Robert Libetti
Bruce KrastingNOTE: This post was originally published on Friday, September 6. Tom Perez got the job as Secretary of Labor just two days ago. All smiles with the Veep for the affair. After the payroll numbers this morning Perez goes on CNBC and talks about how great things are, and what a good job Obama is doing. But 6:15 into the clip the point is made that last month the average work week fell to the lowest level in six months. Perez is asked if Obamacare is forcing companies to cut worker‚Äôs hours to 29/week. Perez fired back with an unequivocal, pre-planned response: Bruce Krasting The response by Perez runs counter to what I have read; it also runs counter to my own inquires. In my small town there is a decent sized regional grocer. I‚Äôve made a point of asking the ladies who ring things up how many hours they work. The answer is that in this store the policy is that all ‚Äòfront end‚Äô personnel are restricted to 29 hours (the food preparers are not subject these rules).¬† One person told me, ‚Äúthey said it was because of the government insurance‚Äù. My anecdotal information does not stand up against Mr. Perez‚Äôs¬† claim of no correlation. However, the following articles/clips do stand up. The NBC bit is pretty much a slap in the face for Mr. Perez and his boasts. Either all of these news outlets are making stuff up, or Perez is blowing smoke. NBC ‚Äì Obamacare Causing Workers Hours to be Cut to 29 Hours All Across the Country CNBC ‚Äì Businesses claim Obamacare has forced them to cut employee hours WSJ ‚Äì ObamaCare‚Äôs Definition of a Full-Time Job Needs Revising NY Daily News - Companies cut part-time worker hours to avoid Obamacare requirement Fox - ObamaCare pushing Americans into part-time work, critics say Forbes ‚Äì Who Can Deny It? Obamacare Is Accelerating U.S. Towards A Part-Time Nation The Hill - Cruz: ObamaCare is ‚Äòforcing‚Äô employers to cut workers‚Äô hours Zero Hedge ‚Äì The ‚ÄúObamacare Part-Time Jobs‚Äù Effect Goes Mainstream Obamacare is a huge deal. It will have significant consequences on the economy. It‚Äôs very important that those consequences are understood, and, if necessary, changes have to be made to minimize the negative consequences. I understand that Perez has to walk and talk the party line as payoff for the new corner office. That‚Äôs just the way of things in D.C. But Perez crossed the credibility line on his second day at the job.
"Australia is no longer Fantasy Island. Commodity super-cycle squandered on beer, overpowered utes, and expensive property. The new expectation for Oz is weak Kangaruble, lower property prices, and declining resource capex."‚ÄîAdrian Mowat, chief emerging market and Asian equity strategist at JPMorgan
The Federal Reserve is contemplating unwinding its quantitative easing program, which at $85 billion in bond buying per month has constituted the single largest provision of marginal liquidity to global financial markets since this latest iteration of the stimulus program was launched in September 2012. Such a move appears imminent ‚Äì the consensus in the marketplace is that the first step in tapering back quantitative easing will be announced at the conclusion of the Fed's September 18-19 FOMC policy meeting. This prospect has roiled global stock and bond markets in recent months, and in response to the increased volatility, the Fed has sought to reassure investors that it would continue to max out its other (main, in fact) policy stimulus tool ‚Äì control over the level of benchmark interest rates ‚Äì for years to come. In that vein, Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius expects the Fed to announce a "dovish taper" at the September meeting. Though the central bank will begin to taper back quantitative easing, Hatzius believes it will also find a way to tweak its "forward guidance" efforts (promises over the future path of interest rates). The Goldman economist explained a few of the Fed's options for tweaking forward guidance in a recent note. REUTERS/Alex DomanskiEuropean Central Bank President Mario Draghi has experimented with forward guidance in recent months.And while the Fed is in the spotlight, it's not the only central bank that is trying to lean more heavily on forward guidance these days ‚Äì these "open-mouth operations" are currently all the rage at the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, and the Bank of Japan as well. However, investors don't think central banks will be successful with these new forward guidance tactics, which are expected to ramp up soon. "Most clients I met buy our story that the Fed, the Bank of England and the ECB will step up their efforts to push back on expectations of earlier and faster rate hikes in the next few weeks and months," says Morgan Stanley global head of economics Joachim Fels in a Sunday note. "However, many doubt that Bernanke, Carney, Draghi &amp; Co will be successful in their forward guidance efforts in the face of further improvements in the economic data." In other words, despite continued efforts by central banks to keep interest rates low, improving economic conditions will force interest rates up. For his part, Fels disagrees. "Too much is at stake for central banks in terms of credibility and there are various ways to make forward guidance more precise and more forceful, including a lowering of the unemployment threshold and/or the introduction of a lower threshold for inflation, below which a rate hike will not be considered," says the Morgan Stanley economist.
Rick Wilking/ReutersBerkshire Hathaway Vice Chairman Charlie Munger arrives to begin the company's annual meeting in Omaha May 4, 2013. Warren Buffett and the board of his conglomerate Berkshire Hathaway Inc are "solidly in agreement" on who should be the company's next chief executive, he said at Berkshire's annual shareholder meeting on Saturday.Charlie Munger is Warren Buffett's co-chairman of Berkshire Hathaway and an investing genius in his own right. He's almost 90, six years older than Buffett, but every bit as sharp and cagey even in his advanced age. And also, he kicks the shit out of all you momentum investor hotshots, what with your risk parities and your quant factors and your newfangled social networking stocks. Munger has run into more burning buildings than the NYFD, dodging scores of other investors fleeing in the opposite direction without even a second's hesitation. Two years ago this month I had a guest post here on TRB about Charlie Munger's involvement in little-known newspaper stock Daily Journal Corp (DJCO) - see†Does Charlie Munger Have a Secret Small Cap Stock?†from August 2011. That stock has wiped the floor with the S&amp;P since the post, thanks largely to Munger's well-timed stock market bets utilizing the corporate cash hoard. Here's a chart:  Jason Zweig has the must-read article of the weekend posted at WSJ wherein he examines the secrets of Charlie's investment success... Mr. Munger's reply: "I'm rational. That's the answer. I'm rational." Trained as a meteorologist at the California Institute of Technology, Mr. Munger thinks in terms of probabilities rather than certainties, say those who know him well. An early divorce and the death of his young son from leukemia taught Mr. Munger that adversity provides an opportunity to show what you are made of. Decades of voracious reading in history, science, biography and psychology have made him an acute diagnostician of human folly. "Charlie has such a deep sense of stoicism," says a longtime friend, Christopher Davis, chairman of New York-based fund manager Davis Advisors. "He seems to be able to invert emotions, becoming uninterested when other people are euphoric and then deeply engaged when others are uncertain or fearful." Are you rational, like Charlie is? Are you a stoic? Can you get excited just at the moment when all other around you are despondent? Not many can. That's why not many can be Charlie. Sources: Does Charlie Munger Have a Secret Small Cap Stock? (TRB) Charlie Munger: Lessons From an Investing Giant (WSJ)
BloombergThis happened very quietly on Friday, but it's very dangerous for former billionaire tycoon, Brazil's Eike Batista. According to the Wall Street Journal, shareholders in his flagship oil and gas company, OGX, are demanding the Batista make good on a promise he made back in 2012 ó "the Batista put." Basically Batista said he wold buy $1 billion worth of OGX stock by April 2013, but that never happened. Now shareholders want him to buy up $100 million worth immediately, and buy the rest as needed. OGX stock, down over 90% for the year, jumped 27% on this news, but here's the thing ó Batista has fallen hard from his position this time last year. In the early fall of 2012 he was in the top 20 richest people in the world, now he's not even a billionaire and he's got a lot of debt to pay off. So Batista has been selling off assets from his crumbling commodities empire (known all together as EBX) but observers wonder if he can pay for $1 billion worth OGX stock. Because of his promise, Batista would have to pay†6.30 Brazilian reais per share. Shares are currently valued at†0.52 reais. He's going to try to reason with OGX shareholders, but if they don't work something out in 60 days, he will seek arbitration, according to a filing. This is something (that could be hard) to watch.
Jean-Pol GRANDMONT, Wikimedia CommonHistorically, September has been the worst month for stocks. "Since 1900, September returns have, in fact, been negative (-1.1% on average, see Figure 4)," said JP Morgan's Tom Lee in a note to clients on Friday. But that's not the whole story. " [T]he performance of markets in September is substantially better when only focusing on years of "bull markets,"" added Lee. "As shown on Figure 4, during bull market years September gains are 0.6%, or 170bp better, with a win-ratio of 53% (980bp better). In other words, given the current bull market, history suggests that we should be a lot less worried about September." For what it's worth, that's the historical pattern. JP Morgan
¬∞Florian/FlickrYou can'tJustin Jeffers is the editor of The Fine Young Gentleman.  For some, graduation is only a few weeks away. Whether that's a good†thing or bad thing is unimportant ó it's inevitable. For some guys that means it's†time to dress up and work for the man, and if you do have to dress up†you should definitely do it right. Here are 10 things you should look to have†in your wardrobe if you're heading out into the real world. It may not be feasible to buy them all at once but in†short order they can all be had. Along with each item is a list of 3-5 places†to acquire it, or at least a place to start your search. Most of†the places are not as well known as the places you would find walking up†and down 5th Avenue. However, they all provide a better value for your†money.
Ben Bernanke is expected to retire when his term as Federal Reserve Chairman ends this year. Economists believe that the vacated seat will likely go to either current Vice Chair Janet Yellen or former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers. However, one name that we keep hearing that hasn't been eliminated as a frontrunner for Fed Chair is former Vice Chair Donald Kohn. Unlike Yellen and Summers, who have been pretty quiet since their names have been mentioned for the Fed's top spot, Kohn has offered his thoughts on† the weak August jobs report in the context of how it may impact the Fed's decision to begin tapering its quantitative easing program. From Barron's Randall Forsyth: ...How much the FOMC might be swayed by that swing is hard to say. For their Sept. 17-18 confab, they'll have to go with the August jobs report, which was not good, former Fed Vice Chairman Donald Kohn told Greg Valliere, chief political strategist at the Potomac Research Group. Kohn still expects the FOMC to begin gently tapering its asset purchases, but adds that the odds of that happening has shifted, to perhaps 60-40 from 80-20 a few days ago, according to a research note published after the jobs numbers' release. Given that the August employment report "wasn't a disaster," the Fed is likely to go ahead with the taper because it was "pre-announced," Kohn continued. Bernanke broached the idea of trimming the securities purchases in late May and laid out a tentative timetable after the June FOMC meeting -- contingent upon economic data improving in line with its forecast. Had the Fed not pre-committed, "they might wait until they see whether the economy and labor markets are indeed strengthening as expected," Kohn added. But the central bank has tied the end of quantitative easing to a 7% jobless rate, "and even if it's for the wrong reason, they're getting closer to that," Kohn continued... Kohn's assessment is in line with those of Wall Street's economists.
Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesRicky Swift waits to apply for food stamps at the Cooperative Feeding Program on February 10, 2011 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.AFTER her son was born in 2008, Melissa Devilma--homeless, jobless and alone--needed help. The welfare system stepped in: she received $478 in cash and $367 in food stamps each month, along with housing assistance that lowered the rent on her two-bedroom apartment in Boston to $131. Including health care, taxpayers subsidised her to the tune of $33,000 annually. Ms Devilma used the money to go to college and earn a bachelorís degree. She wants to get off the dole. But she says that many of the other welfare recipients she knows are reluctant to seek work or an education. Life in the system is hardly gold-plated, but it is comfortable enough. Even Ms Devilma admits that, if it were not for her son and the recent expiry of her cash aid, she would rather live on welfare than take an entry-level job at McDonaldís, which she considers unsuited to her level of education. As it is, she would take any job "just so I have that little money to provide for him". Policy wonks have long debated the extent to which welfare discourages work. Clearly, it can. In very poor countries, where the choice is either to work or to starve, people work long, back-breaking hours growing food. In rich countries, government safety nets limit how far anyone can fall. Yet these nets are hard to design. Welfare states must balance the desire to keep people out of penury with the equally humanitarian desire to not let them drift into lives of indolence and despair. Americaís last big welfare reform was in 1996, when Bill Clinton and a Republican-led Congress put time limits on cash benefits and tightened the requirement that able-bodied claimants must seek work. The results have been impressive. The number of people receiving cash benefits under what is now called the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) programme fell from 12.3m people a month in 1996 to 4.1m in 2012. Employment among single mothers rose sharply. But some worry that welfare is once again encouraging idleness. Paul Ryan, the Republicansí congressional budget guru, frets that Americaís safety net could become "a hammock that lulls able-bodied people into lives of dependency and complacency". A recent study by the Cato Institute, a libertarian think-tank, tried to add up what a jobless single mother with two children might receive in each state from seven types of benefit: TANF, food stamps, Medicaid (health care for the cash-strapped), housing assistance, utilities assistance, emergency food aid and the programme for Women, Infants and Children. There was huge variation between states. Such a mother might receive a whopping $49,175 worth of benefits in Hawaii, the most generous state, but only $16,984 in Mississippi, the least. Michael Tanner and Charles Hughes, the studyís authors, argue that welfare is too generous. In 39 states, their hypothetical single mother would make more from benefits than a secretary does from work. In 11, she would make more than a first-year teacher. For many Americans, says Mr Tanner, not working is a "rational alternative" to working. Critics cite two objections to Catoís methodology. First, most people on welfare do not receive all the benefits that its hypothetical single mother does. For example, only 15% of those receiving TANF benefits also receive housing benefit, which forms a huge part of the Cato package. (True enough, says Mr Tanner, but since there is usually a waiting list for housing benefit, the long-term unemployed are far more likely to receive it.) Second, in comparing the rewards of work and welfare, the Cato study fails to take proper account of the fact that many benefits keep flowing even after the recipient has found work. In 2011 roughly 86% of children receiving Medicaid came from working families, according to the Centre on Budget and Policy Priorities (CBPP), a left-leaning think-tank. Most able-bodied adults in households with children that receive food stamps work. Measuring the benefits that flesh-and-blood Americans actually receive is difficult because the system is unbelievably complex. Cato counts 126 separate federal anti-poverty programmes, including 72 that provide "cash or in-kind benefits to individuals". The states have many more. Some parts of the system make little sense. For example, the food-stamps programme is run by the Department of Agriculture; not because it has any logical connection with welfare, but because Congress long ago yoked food stamps to farm subsidies so that urban and rural lawmakers would vote for each otherís pet handouts. The federal governmentís main tool for making work pay is the earned-income tax credit (EITC), a negative income tax that tops up the earnings of low-paid workers. For example, a single mother with one child will receive a credit that rises to $3,250 a year as she approaches $9,600 in earnings. This will remain steady until she makes $17,500, at which point it starts to be phased out. Embraced by both parties, the EITC is considered a success. The CBPP estimates that, along with a similar child tax credit, it lifted 9.4m people out of poverty in 2011. But it does funny things to marginal tax rates: in the phase-out period relatively low-paid workers keep shockingly little of each extra dollar they earn. Other means-tested goodies compound the problem. As a low-paid worker moves up the income scale, benefits are gradually withdrawn. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO), a non-partisan number-cruncher, looked at how this might affect a single mother with one child in a typical state (Pennsylvania) in 2012. The EconomistWhen her income exceeded $4,900, she would have lost TANF. At around $23,000, she would have lost food stamps and federal housing assistance. The CBO calculates that her effective marginal tax rate would range from a modest 17% to a jaw-dropping 95% (see chart 1). If the prospect of keeping only five cents of each extra dollar earned does not discourage work, it is hard to imagine what might. And the CBOís calculation does not include Medicaid and several other means-tested benefits. Since welfare reform made it harder for the able-bodied jobless to claim benefits, the number of Americans claiming to be disabled has risen fast (see chart 2). In July roughly 8.9m disabled workers received an average of $1,130 each month from the Social Security Trust Fund. That is up from roughly 455,000 in 1960 and 4.4m in 1996. After the financial crisis, when many Americans lost jobs, disability claims spiked again. The most common complaints are of "musculo-skeletal" and mental problems, such as bad backs, depression and anxiety, which are hard to verify. The Economist Have these ailments grown much more common? Senator Tom Coburn, a Republican budget hawk from Oklahoma (and a practising doctor), doubts it. "We looked at a lot of cases, and 30% or 40% of them, no way those people were disabled," he says. "At least one-third of people getting disability payments are able to work. I reviewed about 100 of these records myself, as a physician. Theyíre a joke. Lawyer after lawyer just changed their diagnosis through time to finally get an administrative law judge to approve it." To be fair, it is often hard to judge how ill a claimant is. Your correspondent met Evette, for instance, picking up food from a charity in Austell, Georgia. She had been in a car crash. She says that she now has such persistent vertigo that she cannot do her job. (She was a bus driver.) Georgia disagrees, and has rejected her claim for disability benefit. She complains: "They said my condition isnít critical; just uncomfortable. I said: 'Youíre not in my body. How would you know?í" She adds: "Sometimes I feel like Georgia tries to make it frustrating so peopleÖjust give up." Social Securityís Disability Insurance programme is forecast to go bust in 2016. The EconomistIn many other rich countries public health care is imperfect but available to all. In America it is reserved for the old and impecunious. So for some Americans under 65, there is a risk that a pay rise means losing your health insurance. Barack Obamaís health reform tackles this by greatly expanding subsidies. From next year Medicaid will be available to people with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty level, and those with incomes up to 400% of that level will be eligible for subsidised health insurance. But still, as with all means-tested benefits, the phase-out will penalise some people for earning more. If the main aim of welfare is to help people pick themselves up and get back into work, different states have wildly different success rates. The proportion of TANF claimants engaged in "work activities" ranges from 17% in Missouri to 88% in Idaho (see chart 3). This is the official measure, but not an adequate one, since so many welfare recipients are not enrolled in TANF. Last summer the Department of Health and Human Services, which oversees TANF, allowed states to change or waive the programmeís work requirements, so long as they come up with an alternative plan to encourage work. Some states do more. Minnesota uses a data-heavy "self-support index" that tracks how many welfare recipients are working or have been weaned from cash aid after three years. Since 1997 Utahís Department of Workforce Services, which administers TANF in the state, has worked with the University of Utah to evaluate what works in getting people off welfare and back to work. In recent years, for instance, Utah has found an uptick in the proportion of welfare claimants who are male. Many lost their jobs during the recession and are eager to learn new skills. Work Success, Utahís scheme for training parents with dependent children, has been pretty effective: 74% of those who used it in the last quarter of 2012 have found jobs. Washington state has a database that lets different state agencies share information--an obvious trick that is surprisingly rare--and it is developing a risk-modelling programme to assess how best to help each individual, whether that means training, tips for finding a job or drug treatment. In the nationís capital, meanwhile, little creative thinking is in evidence. Republicans typically want to cut anti-poverty programmes; Democrats want to expand them. Medicaid is growing because of Obamacare; federal housing and child-care assistance are being squeezed by the sequester. Republicans are keen to take a slice out of food stamps, spending on which has more than doubled since 2008. But there is little talk of simplifying Americaís welfare system. Britain is trying to fuse multiple benefits into one and place a cap on the total that any individual may receive. Germany has brought its jobless rate down impressively, partly by creating one-stop shops where the unemployed both claim benefits and are shown how to find work or acquire new skills. Yet America remains stuck with a system so complex that even its fans struggle to measure how well it works. A simpler system that tried to encourage work at every step would fit with the grain of American society. Americans who find jobs often stop claiming benefits to which they are entitled. This may be because the system forces them to re-apply for such benefits, which can be a hassle. But it may also be because they take pride in supporting themselves, says Mr Tanner. Mirta Rodriguez certainly does. Four years ago she signed up for benefits in Boston so that she could support her family while looking for work. A single mother of three, she eventually received cash assistance, food stamps and Medicaid. Welfare helped her survive while studying--she now has a degree and a job as a manager at a neighbourhood centre. "I had clear goals," she says. "I wasnít raised to sit at home expecting a check to come in the mail." Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Way back in the Paleozoic era (as far as markets are concerned), circa 2003, I wrote in this letter and in¬†Bull's Eye Investing¬†that the pension liabilities of state and municipal plans would soon top $2 trillion. This was of course far above the stated actuarial claims at the time, and I was seen as such a pessimist. Everyone¬†knew¬†that the market would compound at 9%, so any problems were just a rounding error. Now it turns out I may have been a tad optimistic. Two well-respected analysts of pension funds have produced reports this summer suggesting that pensions are now underfunded by more than $4 trillion and possibly more than $5 trillion. I would like to tell you that the underfunding is all the bad news, but when you probe deeper into the problems facing pension funds, it just gets worse. The two reports conclude that pension plan sponsors seem determined to keep digging themselves an ever-deeper hole. But to hear the plan sponsors tell it, the situation is readily manageable and the risks are minimal. Except that pesky old reality keeps confounding their expectations. And that is the crux of the problem. Whether you believe there really is a problem boils down to the assumptions you make about future returns. If you believe the projections trotted out by pension fund management and the bulk of the pension consulting groups, the underfunding is a mere $1 trillion ‚Äî a large amount to be sure but manageable for most states. The emphasis here is on¬†most.¬†Some states and municipalities are in far worse shape than others, and to be honest with you, I don't see how some of them can meet their commitments. Others are trying to be responsible and fulfill their pension fund obligations based on the assumptions their "experts" come up with, but the problem is that those assumptions may be overly optimistic. The seemingly small difference of just 1% of GDP growth can make a huge difference in pension liabilities (and thus taxpayer obligations).This week we begin a series focusing on the problems facing US state and local pension funds. This issue has relevance to you not only as a taxpayer but also as an investor, because it goes to the very core of the question, what is the level of reasonable returns we can expect to see from our investments in the future? This is not a problem that is restricted to the US ‚Äî it's global. Sadly, we don't live in a Lake Wobego n world where all pension funds and investment portfolios are above average. Not everyone can be¬†David Swenson, the famous chief investment officer of Yale University. Truth be told, David Swenson will have a difficult time being David Swenson in the next 20 years. ¬† Unrealistic Expectations The past 10 years have seen a growing number of economists and financial analysts questioning the propriety of the methods used to forecast pension fund liabilities. This is more than an academic exercise, as the numbers you choose to base your models upon make massive differences in the projected outcomes. As we will see, those differences can run into the trillions of dollars and can mean the difference between solvency and bankruptcy of municipalities and states. The implicit assumption in many actuarial forecasts is that states and cities have no constraints on their ability to raise money. If liabilities increase, then you simply raise taxes to meet the liability. However, fiscal reality has begun to rear its head in a few cities around the country and arrived with a vengeance in Detroit this summer. It seems there actually is a limit to how much cities and states can raise. "Aah," cities assure themselves, "we are not Detroit." And it must be admitted that Detroit truly is a basket case. But it may behoove us to remember that Spain and Italy and Portugal and Ireland and Cyprus all said "We are not Greece" prior to arriving at the point where they would lose access to the bond market without central bank assistance. In response to growing concerns over public pension debt, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) and Moody's have both proposed revisions to government reporting rules to make state and local governments acknowledge the real scope of their pension problems. (While it is possible to ignore Moody's, based on the fact that it is just one of three private rating agencies, it is impossible to ignore GASB, which is the official source of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) used by state and local governments in the United States. Under the new GASB rules, governments will be required to use more appropriate investment targets than most public pension plans have been using, bringing them more in line with accounting rules for private-sector plans. Pension plans can continue to use current investment targets for the amounts the plans have successfully funded; but for the unfunded amounts, pension plans must use more reasonable investment forecasts, such as the yield on high-grade municipal bonds, currently running between 3 and 4 percent. From my perspective, not requiring reasonable investment forecasts on already funded accounts is still unrealistic, but the new GASB rules are a major step in the right direction, and I applaud GASB for taking a very politically difficult stance. Moody's has also proposed new rules to require states to use more appropriate investment targets. Their new rules require pension plans to use investment targets based on the yield of high-grade, long-term corporate bonds, currently just over 4 percent. (Source:http://illinoispolicy.org/uploads/files/Pension_debt_more_than_doubles.pdf) What difference does a more "realistic" forecast make? According to the survey done by Moody's, it makes a difference of more than $3 trillion, or more than double the total actual assets of the 255 largest state-funded pension plans. This is illustrated in the chart below. Mauldin Current official reporting suggests that states have funded 73% of their pension liabilities. The fair-market-value approach used by Moody's and GASB suggests that funding is only at 39%. The difference is almost entirely due to the assumptions one uses about the discount rate for future expected returns. The next two charts provide an illustration. I'm simplifying a bit, but the principles are correct. If you are a pension plan manager, you have to be thinking over very long periods of time. Someone retiring today at age 60 will likely require almost 30 years of pension payments. Someone aged 40 paying into your pension program will likely be getting his or her pension returns¬†50 years from now. Let's look at a few scenarios of what might happen to $1 billion over the next 40 years under various assumptions of investment returns. Mauldin Many state-funded pension plans today assume an 8% nominal return for the indefinite future. Some are beginning to forecast lower returns, but very few would forecast lower than 7%. Moody's argues that somewhere in the range of 4% nominal is more realistic. Notice that the difference after 40 years is well over four times. Even if you assume that magic returns to the markets after 2020 and returns go up to 8% thereafter (the green line in the chart), there is still a gap of $5 billion after 40 years. On assets of $2 trillion, that is a gap of $10 trillion. If you assume only a 4% nominal return for the entire 40 years, the gap is $30 trillion. For the mathematically challenged, that is¬†not¬†a rounding error. Nominal or Real? Nominal returns are only part of the story. We live in a world of inflation, and almost all pension funds are inflation-adjusted. The next chart takes the same $1 billion and extrapolates into the future but assumes a modest 2% inflation rate over the 40-year period. The small difference of just 2% annually reduces the real returns by over half. Assumptions can have very wicked children. And grandchildren. Mauldin A 4% nominal growth rate, or 2% real growth, sounds so pessimistic, but it is actually in line with what we've experienced over the last 18 years. And you want your assumptions about the future to be as conservative as possible, so that if there are surprises they are pleasant ones. Looking ahead, economic growth does not appear likely to yield pleasant surprises. We use the following chart from Jeremy Grantham at GMO about a month ago, but we need to look at it again in more detail. These are the forecasts that Grantham makes for real (inflation-adjusted) returns over the next seven years: Mauldin Notice that if you had a "balanced portfolio," equally distributed among the six equity-asset classes, your total annual real return would be in the 1.5% range. Using the same balanced approach with bonds, your total return would be 0.1%. In the black bar at far right we see Grantham's projected returns for investments in timber, which can be taken as a proxy for "alternative" investments in general. A pension fund investing 55% in equities, 35% in bonds, and 10% in alternatives (not an uncommon pension allocation scheme) would see a total annual real return of around 1.5% real, if Grantham is correct. To bring returns up to even 2% real for the next 10 years, you would have to knock the lights out for the final 3 years of the 10-year time frame. You may ask, why does Grantham project equity returns to be so small? Can't we assume that over longer periods of time returns will be in the 8%-plus range? Sadly, 8% is an unrealistic number for long-term growth in the equity markets, as Grantham has so ably demonstrated. Voting versus Weighing The father of value investing, Benjamin Graham, gave us a simple illustration for looking at market valuations. He noted that "In the short run, the market is like a voting machine ‚Äî tallying up which firms are popular and unpopular. But in the long run, the market is like a weighing machine ‚Äî assessing the substance of a company." The message is clear: what matters in the long run is a company's actual underlying business performance and not the investing public's fickle opinion about its prospects in the short run.(Source: Morningstar) At the end of the day, what the market really weighs is earnings, and that judgment is reflected in the valuation it puts on those earnings. Is $1 worth of earnings worth $8, or $25? Are you expecting a 12% return, or a 4% return? Of course, your answers depend on your view of inflation, what you think of the growth prospects of the company in the economy, and your alternatives for that dollar of investment. The markets can fluctuate a great deal around long-term trends, but they always come back to the average. We've had quite a nice stock market run over the last four years, but let's look at just the last two years, which have theoretically been part of a recovery period. Notice in the chart below that trailing 12-month earnings have been essentially flat, while the market has gone up almost 40%. Almost all of the growth in the stock market has occurred because people were willing to pay a higher multiple for the same dollar's worth of earnings. Valuati ons are not at nosebleed levels, but they are certainly high; and without something to seriously boost earnings, it is hard to see how the market can justify still higher valuations. Mauldin The next chart is from my friend Lance Roberts. Quoting Lance: As you will notice each time that corporate profits (CP/S) and earnings per share (EPS) were above their respective long-term historical growth trends, the financial markets have run into complications.¬†The bottom two graphs [see below] show the percentage deviations above and below the long-term growth trends. What is important to understand is that, despite rhetoric to the contrary, "record" earnings or profits are generally fleeting in nature. It is at these divergences from the long-term growth trends where true buying and selling opportunities exist. Are we currently in another asset "bubble?"¬†The answer is something that we will only know for sure in hindsight.¬†However, from a fundamental standpoint, with valuations and profitability on a per share basis well above long-term trends, it certainly does not suggest that market returns going forward will continue to be as robust as those seen from the recessionary lows. Lance Roberts So what does this academic discussion about future returns have to do with pension funds? It matters because pension funds make assumptions about their future ability to meet their obligation to pay retirees a monthly check based upon their assumptions about returns. In the next few weeks we're going to look at specific states and their assumptions and what that means for their taxpayers in terms of their budgets. We all know that Illinois is in difficult straits. The state of Illinois has set aside $63 billion to pay for future benefits. But between now and 2045 they're going to have to pay out 10 times that much ‚Äî $632 billion. By the state pension fund's own estimate, they need another $83 billion to be adequately funded. Just a few years ago their deficit was a mere $50 billion. Compound interest means that the longer you ignore your problem, the faster it gets worse. Total state revenues for Illinois were $33 billion for fiscal year 2012. Let's see if we can find a politician to propose that they take 25% of the budget every year for the next 10 years to reduce their underfunded pensions (as opposed to the 12% they allot currently). Mayor Emanuel, do you have a plan? Because the pension plans are so underfunded, they would need to see average investment returns of nearly 19 percent per year to cover future payouts. The state predicts its pension funds will earn investment returns between 7 and 8.5 percent per year. Even these returns may be overly optimistic. Over the last decade, the pension funds have earned average investment returns of only 4.5 to 6 percent per year. The funds' unrealistic investment targets have already increased the state's total pension debt by more than $14.3 billion since 1996. (Source:http://illinoispolicy.org/uploads/files/Pension_debt_more_than_doubles.pdf) The unfunded liability in Illinois is $22,294 per person. What we will find next week is that there are states that are actually in worse shape than Illinois in that regard. And no, California is not one of them. (Hint: they have Republican governors. Oops. That's not supposed to happen. Especially if the governors are considered to be vice-presidential material. Just saying‚Ä¶) We will also look at the specifics of Detroit. One of the ugliest reports I've read in the last year is the report of the new "emergency" manager of Detroit, outlining his proposal to take the city out of bankruptcy. It makes for some of the most dismal reading anywhere. But buried in the data is this interesting chart that the¬†Detroit Free Press¬†created. Note that the unfunded healthcare liability is far larger than the pension liability. That provides another avenue for us to look down. In the meantime, you might look and see what your city or state assumes about the returns on its pension funds. Then look at what the difference between that amount and 4% nominal might be and see what the effect would be on your tax rate. I suggest you do that only with an adult beverage close at hand. Mauldin We will close with one sentence from the report of the Detroit emergency manager, referring to the ability of the city to pay its obligations to those who have already retired: "Because the amounts realized on the underfunding claims will be substantially less than the underfunding amount, there must be significant cuts in accrued, vested pension amounts for both active and currently retired persons." Sadly, that sentence is likely to be cut and pasted into many similar documents around the country unless changes are made now. If you wait until you are Detroit (or Greece), it is too late. Chicago, Bismarck, Denver, Etc. Tonight was the theatrical premiere of the documentary¬†Money for Nothing¬†here in Dallas. I predict this movie will soon be winning awards everywhere. The producer and editor, Jim Bruce, has done a magnificent job of giving us a balanced history of the Federal Reserve, with a perspective on how they manage their responsibilities. The movie will open next week in New York and Washington DC and then begin to open around the country. You can find out more by going to¬†www.moneyfornothingthemovie.org. I may be biased because this is a subject that is near and dear to my heart, but everyone in the theater tonight seemed to conclude that this is one of the best documentaries that has been produced in a long time. Jim Bruce makes his living editing major movies in Hollywood, and his talent shows up in spades in this film. Only about 1% of the interviews they recorded (in terms of time) made it from the camera to the actual film. The craftsmanship of weaving all those interviews, one after another, taking small slices here and there and creating one continuous, compelling narrative, is truly amazing. You simply have to see this film if you get the chance. I know that a lot of Senate staffers (and even a few senators) read this letter from time to time. You have a very interesting vote coming up in a few weeks after President Obama nominates a new Federal Reserve chairman. I strongly suggest you view this documentary prior to casting your vote or asking your questions (if you're on the committee). That will certainly make for a more lively and entertaining committee meeting. Drop me a note and I will arrange for you to get a copy of the film. (If you're in the White House, you might possibly want to watch just to see what kinds of questions could be coming up for your nominee. Just a thought.) Monday¬†evening I fly to Chicago for a speech and then on to Bismarck for a presentation for BNC Bank. Before ending up in Bismarck, I will fly to Rapid City, South Dakota, to gaze at Mount Rushmore and put my feet on to South Dakota soil, at which point I can say that I've been to all 50 states. My friend Loren Kopseng will pick me up and fly me up to the Bakken oil fields for another tour of the area. The next week I will be in Denver and the following week in Toronto and New York. It is quite late and time to hit the send button. I might have lingered too long at my friend David Tice's after-moving party, as the conversation was just so much fun. But great conversation didn't get the letter done, so as usual I am up until I can meet the deadline. But it was worth it. I can always sleep late another day. But not today. I promised some of the kids and my sister I would have brunch with them, and I have to set my alarm clock early enough to be on time. Then, in the evening, my daughter Abbi and her new husband Stephen will be down from Tulsa. We will spend the next day or so catching up and doing family stuff. Have a great week. Your hoping he can find above-average returns somewhere analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com Copyright 2013 John Mauldin. All Rights Reserved. Thoughts From the Frontline¬†is a free weekly economic e-letter by best-selling author and renowned financial expert, John Mauldin. You can learn more and get your free subscription by visiting¬†http://www.mauldineconomics.com. To subscribe to John Mauldin's e-letter, please click here:http://www.mauldineconomics.com/subscribe Thoughts From the Frontline¬†and MauldinEconomics.com is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and those that he interviews. Any views expressed are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest and is not in any way a testimony of, or associated with, Mauldin's other firms. John Mauldin is the Chairman of Mauldin Economics, LLC. He also is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA) which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states, President and registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS) member¬†FINRA¬†and¬†SIPC, through which securities may be offered. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as well as an Intr oducing Broker (IB) and NFA Member. Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. This message may contain information that is confidential or privileged and is intended only for the individual or entity named above and does not constitute an offer for or advice about any alternative investment product. Such advice can only be made when accompanied by a prospectus or similar offering document. Past performance is not indicative of future performance. Please make sure to review important disclosures at the end of each article. Mauldin companies may have a marketing relationship with products and services mentioned in this letter for a fee. Note: Joining the Mauldin Circle is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and Millennium Wave Investments. It is intended solely for investors who have registered with Millennium Wave Investments and its partners at¬†www.MauldinCircle.com¬†or directly related websites. The Mauldin Circle may send out material that is provided on a confidential basis, and subscribers to the Mauldin Circle are not to send this letter to anyone other than their professional investment counselors. Investors should discuss any investment with their personal investment counsel. John Mauldin is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA), which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states. John Mauldin is a registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS), an FINRA registered broker-dealer. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as wel l as an Introducing Broker (IB). Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. Millennium Wave Investments cooperates in the consulting on and marketing of private and non-private investment offerings with other independent firms such as Altegris Investments; Capital Management Group; Absolute Return Partners, LLP; Fynn Capital; Nicola Wealth Management; and Plexus Asset Management. Investment offerings recommended by Mauldin may pay a portion of their fees to these independent firms, who will share 1/3 of those fees with MWS and thus with Mauldin. Any views expressed herein are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest with any CTA, fund, or program mentioned here or elsewhere. Before seeking any advisor's services or making an investment in a fund, investors must read and examine thoroughly the respective disclosure document or offering memorandum. Since these firms and Mauld in receive fees from the funds they recommend/market, they only recommend/market products with which they have been able to negotiate fee arrangements. PAST RESULTS ARE NOT INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS. THERE IS RISK OF LOSS AS WELL AS THE OPPORTUNITY FOR GAIN WHEN INVESTING IN MANAGED FUNDS. WHEN CONSIDERING ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS, INCLUDING HEDGE FUNDS, YOU SHOULD CONSIDER VARIOUS RISKS INCLUDING THE FACT THAT SOME PRODUCTS: OFTEN ENGAGE IN LEVERAGING AND OTHER SPECULATIVE INVESTMENT PRACTICES THAT MAY INCREASE THE RISK OF INVESTMENT LOSS, CAN BE ILLIQUID, ARE NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE PERIODIC PRICING OR VALUATION INFORMATION TO INVESTORS, MAY INVOLVE COMPLEX TAX STRUCTURES AND DELAYS IN DISTRIBUTING IMPORTANT TAX INFORMATION, ARE NOT SUBJECT TO THE SAME REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AS MUTUAL FUNDS, OFTEN CHARGE HIGH FEES, AND IN MANY CASES THE UNDERLYING INVESTMENTS ARE NOT TRANSPARENT AND ARE KNOWN ONLY TO THE INVESTMENT MANAGER. Alternative investment performance can be volatile. An investor could lose all or a substantial amount of his or her investment. Often, alternative investment fund and account managers have t otal trading authority over their funds or accounts; the use of a single advisor applying generally similar trading programs could mean lack of diversification and, consequently, higher risk. There is often no secondary market for an investor's interest in alternative investments, and none is expected to develop. All material presented herein is believed to be reliable but we cannot attest to its accuracy. Opinions expressed in these reports may change without prior notice. John Mauldin and/or the staffs may or may not have investments in any funds cited above as well as economic interest. John Mauldin can be reached at¬†800-829-7273.
REUTERS/Lee Jae-WonThe latest data out of China adds to signs that its economy is recovering. Trade growth picked up again in August with exports rising 7.2% on the year in August, up from 5.1% in July and beating expectations for 5.5%. Export growth to the U.S. climbed to 6.1% from 5.3% in July. And exports to EU rose 2.5%, after increasing 2.8% in July. Import data missed expectations rising 7% and was down from 10.9% the previous month. "Though import growth softened in a bit in August from July, itís still much stronger than the negative readings in May and June," wrote Bank of America's Ting Lu. He also pointed out the softer import data could be explained by 1. pent up demand in July, and 2. a slowdown in the purchase of raw materials after a jump in prices in August. Meanwhile, the trade surplus widened to $28.6 billion, from $17.8 billion the previous month.† This comes after the Chinese manufacturing sector has been showing signs of recovery. China's Q2 GDP slowed to 7.5% but premier Li Keqiang calmed markets by saying 7.5% would be the growth floor for 2013.
