REUTERS / Kim Hong-JiForeign currency dealers in Seoul, South Korea.Markets are down a few hours into the Asian trading session. Japan's Nikkei is down 0.8 percent. Korea's Kospi is down 0.4 percent. China's Shanghai Composite is down 1.5 percent. This is the first time the Japanese stock market is down in eight days reports Bloomberg.
Robert Scoble via FlickrThe prominent Silicon Valley venture capitalist Michael Arrington was accused of "physical abuse" and "rape" by a former girlfriend last week. The former girlfriend made the accusations in a late-night Facebook post and a few blog comments on the media site Gawker. Earlier this week, Arrington categorically denied the claims, saying that they were completely untrue. He also promised to publish a more detailed response. And now he has. The full response paints the accuser, an entrepreneur named Jennifer Allen, as someone who wanted to continue her relationship with Arrington and was bitterly disappointed that he did not want to. The response, which takes the form of a letter from Arrington's attorneys to Ms. Allen, also says that some of Allen's claims are "factually impossible." In one case, for example, the letter says that Allen claimed to have been "raped" on a day in which Arrington was in Washington and Allen was in California. The response includes intimate photos of Allen that Allen sent Arrington the day after the alleged rape that suggest she was feeling quite warmly towards him. The response also suggests that Allen has recently tried to remove evidence that she was in California at the time of this alleged rape by removing a picture from Facebook that showed her in a San Francisco bar. Damningly, the letter suggests that Ms. Allen once faked a pregnancy in order to try to get Arrington's attention. The story about the fake pregnancy, the letter says, came in the following email from Allen to Arrington, which was sent on May 18, 2011: Uncrunched The letter says that Allen "subsequently told Michael that [she] feigned the pregnancy and abortion in order to get him to communicate with [her]." The letter does not offer proof that the pregnancy was faked, but if this case proceeds to litigation, that will presumably be relatively easy to ascertain. In short, the letter paints a picture of Allen as "a person who is distraught at a break-up, and angered that her ex-boyfriend entered into a new relationship." And it includes many texts and emails that support this picture and suggest that other assertions in Allen's public postings are false. The letter demands that Ms. Allen retract her "false and defamatory statements." It also¬†references many attachments, including the email above, which are also posted on Arrington's blog, Uncrunched. Here is the letter: The following letter from my attorneys was delivered to Jennifer Allen this afternoon, in response to her¬†previous claims. I believe the letter speaks for itself. Eric M. GeorgeBrowne George Ross Via E-Mail and U.S. Mail Jennifer Allen[Address Removed][Email Removed] Re: Michael Arrington Dear Ms. Allen : I am counsel for Michael Arrington, and write you now on his behalf. You have posted statements about Michael that are false and defamatory, and that have caused significant harm to his good name. It is my hope that you immediately will take corrective action, by retracting those statements. I have examined your posted statements, and compared them with provable facts. This comparison shows without any doubt whatsoever that, among others, the following of your statements about Michael are false: (1) You stated that¬†‚Äúhe was physically abusive [on] March 5th [of] last year‚Äù¬†(April 1, 2013, 2d posting, Gawker.)¬†‚Äú[H]e did rape me, on March 5 last year, when he invited me over to make amends from a major catastrophe a couple months prior.‚Äù¬†(April 1, 2013, 3d posting, Gawker.) Your twice-repeated allegation of rape/physical abuse by Michael is not only false, but factually impossible. On March 5, 2012, Michael was in Washington and you were in California. Michael‚Äôs whereabouts are confirmed by travel records and credit card statements in my possession, and your whereabouts are proven by a photo of you at a San Francisco party at 1:05 a.m. on March 6, 2012. This photo was posted online but has been removed in the past several days. (The photo, together with screenshots of your Facebook page in March 2012 before and after it was deleted, are appended hereto as Attachment A.) (2) You stated that¬†‚ÄúMarch 5 last year . . . that was the last time I saw him. I reached out once to him in the past year to get my paintings back . . .‚Äù¬†(April 1, 2013, 3d posting, Gawker.) In fact, you attempted repeatedly to communicate with Michael ‚Äì by telephone, text message and tweets comprising some 292 lines worth of data ‚Äì after March 5, 2012, the date on which you have accused him of rape. (Notably, some of these items have been deleted. Given the strict privacy controls governing access to data on social networks, our access to Facebook data was consequently limited; we are confident that a complete forensic audit of your social network accounts, and those of relevant third parties, will yield further information that corroborates our timeline of events.) Just a few such communications are as follows: ‚Ä¢ On March 6, 2012, the day following the alleged rape, you sent Michael three photographs of yourself, one with the subject line¬†‚ÄúFor only you.‚Äù¬†(See Attachment B.) ‚Ä¢ On March 7, 2012, two days following the alleged rape, you emailed Michael proffering extensive advice about how he ought to landscape his property. (See Attachment C.) ‚Ä¢ On March 22, 2012, seventeen days after the alleged rape, you asked Michael to invest in your start-up:¬†‚ÄúSO MUCH to do on this freaking site and app. I need to raise 3-5 Million to get this done right. Mother Fucker. You should invest, because I figured out I do have a strong business model but need the correct amount to advertise, PR, build, and make it work. Don‚Äôt even think about investing in another art startup without talking to me. I already did this better on my own than some 10 Princeton VC backed graduates . . . imagine what I could do investing the money the right way.‚Äù(See Attachment D.) ‚Ä¢ On May 2, 2012, you asked Michael¬†‚Äúdo you want to go to a wedding with me on May 19 in Chicago? It‚Äôs also my birthday May 19.‚Äù¬†(See Attachment E.) ‚Ä¢ On October 3, 2012, you sent three successive SMS messages to Michael:¬†(i) ‚ÄúHow are you‚Äù; (ii) ‚Äúo_O‚Äù (iii) ‚ÄúHi‚Äù.¬†(See Attachment F.) (3) You stated that he engaged in¬†‚Äúphysical abuse‚Äù and ‚Äúemotional abuse‚Äù of you, and ‚Äúthreaten[ed] to murder you if you told anyone about the physical abuse.‚Äù¬†(May 29, 2013 posting, Facebook.) The foregoing statements of yours, as well as those set forth below, paint a starkly different picture; they do not portray you as a victim of abuse or murder threats, but rather as a person who is distraught at a break-up, and angered that her ex-boyfriend entered into a new relationship: ‚Ä¢ On April 21, 2012, you wrote to Michael that you¬†‚Äúfeel betrayed and slighted by you, and wish I wasn‚Äôt alone since you decided to be with someone else so quickly. Not sure how I‚Äôm going to teach myself how to love and trust again.‚Äù¬†(See Attachment G.) ‚Ä¢ On July 21, 2012, you wrote:¬†‚ÄúThanks for the nebulous msg. I‚Äôll be the change I want to see in those communications skills. You, Mike seem happy with the most boring arrogant fake personalitied person on the planet, who you treat the way I should have been treated. If you can‚Äôt treat me with respect publicly, still, then you fall into the selfish whorish male prostitute category that will always hurt me during and in the end. Hope you‚Äôre enjoying the weather.‚Äù¬†(See Attachment H.) ‚Ä¢ In August 2012, you tweeted:¬†‚ÄúMike @arrington last chance to reconcile. I[sic] you‚Äôre not feeling what I‚Äôm feeling, with the same heart, than [sic] fuck you.‚Äù¬†(See Attachment I.) (4) You stated that¬†‚Äú[h]e raped . . . a friend of mine 5 months ago‚Äù (April 1, 2013, 2d posting, Gawker.) ‚ÄúThe other rape victim . . . came to me, and Mike knows exactly who she is because he called her a month after a New York conference last year conference [sic] to proudly confirm he did it.‚Äù¬†(April 1, 2013, 3d posting, Gawker.) Your allegation that Michael raped another woman is also false. In addition to categorically denying that Michael has ever been physically abusive (let alone that he committed a rape), there is no such rape victim. Indeed, we cannot even hazard a guess as to the supposed rape victim who you twice reference, but whom you do not identify. (5) You stated that¬†‚Äúhe already went to court for sexual harassment and/or rape while at his first law firm. . . . Mike told me stories in person about how he had a Stanford connection with the judge in his rape trial . . . .and he said he [sic] ‚ÄòI got out of my reputation being ruined thanks to a Stanford connection with the judge.‚Äô‚Äù¬†(April 6, 2013, 4th posting, Gawker.) Your allegation that Michael raped yet a third woman is also false. Again, and in addition to categorically denying that Michael has ever been physically abusive, there is no such rape victim. Nor is there any truth whatsoever to any element of this fantastical story involving a rape, a trial, connections with a judge, or anything else you have suggested in your posting. The falsity of the foregoing (among many other statements) is confirmed by four people who lived or worked at Michael‚Äôs house during the time period that you and he were dating. Heather Harde has publicly stated:¬†‚ÄúI would have detected patterns of abusive physical behavior if they had been present. . . . I simply do not believe any of the allegations to be true. . . . It‚Äôs important we set the record straight.‚Äù¬†Nik Cubrilovic has publicly stated:¬†‚ÄúI lived in the same house as Arrington for the entire time he dated Jenn. I never once saw even a hint of physical abuse.‚Äù¬†Gabe Rivera has publicly stated that he had¬†‚Äú[n]ever seen physical threats or harm.‚Äù Nick Gonzalez has publicly stated: ‚ÄúMike was never physically abusive to anyone.‚Äù¬†(See Attachment J.) Nor can there be any question as to your foregoing statements‚Äô defamatory nature. Each such statement purports to describe facts that, if accepted by a reader as true, injure Michael‚Äôs reputation so ‚Äúas to lower him in the estimation of the community or to deter third persons from associating or dealing with him.‚Äù Right-Price Recreation, LLC v. Connells Prairie Community Council, 146 Wash. 2d 370, 382 (2002). Very regrettably, your actions here appear all too similar to your actions on May 18, 2011, when you emailed Michael that you were pregnant and were planning on having an abortion the following day (which was your birthday). You subsequently told Michael that you feigned the pregnancy and abortion in order to get him to communicate with you. (See Attachment K.) Sadly, while making false allegations of rape, your response to statements made by disinterested third parties in Michael‚Äôs defense include an irrational attack on an actual rape victim who you accuse of ‚Äúhurt[ing] women and victims of violence.‚Äù (See Attachment L.) Please consider this letter to constitute a demand for an immediate retraction by you of each of the previous statements. I would appreciate the courtesy of your written response to this demand no later than close of business Monday, April 15, 2013. Indeed, failing a response by you that unconditionally retracts your false and defamatory statements, you will have left us with no choice but to proceed with legal action against you. Litigation is an absolute last resort for Michael, but we will pursue all options to undo the reputational injury caused by your misconduct. As that is our sole objective, to the extent any legal proceedings become necessary, Michael has pledged to donate to charity all amounts recovered. I look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, Eric M. George 
The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is a committee within the Federal Reserve System that oversees the nation's open market operations. The FOMC meets eight times a year, and the minutes from these meetings are released three weeks after the policy decision. Why is the FOMC's schedule and decisions so important? Watch below NYSE floor trader Greg Keating, director of Equity Trading at James E. Coffey Securities, Inc., explain why everyone in finance is paying attention to the FOMC: Produced by Business Insider Video
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Individual Investors Are "An Emotional Wreck" And This Is A Good Thing (StockTwits)  The latest AAII Investor Sentiment Survey shows that the slight correction in stocks last week caused a huge surge in bearish sentiment which climbed 26.3 percent. 54.5 percent were bearish on the stock market for the week ending April 10. The number that were bullish fell 16.2 percent to 19.3 percent. Those that were neutral fell 10.1 percent. Phil Perlman at StockTwits thinks this could actually be very bullish. "In an environment where sentiment shifts so much on such modest declines, the shift acts like a put or hedge against lower prices. Individual investors are an emotional wreck and it is astonishingly bullish." Investors Shouldn't Forget Emerging Market Junk Bonds (Alliance Bernstein) Investors interested in emerging markets should move away from sectors to "credit quality buckets," according to Marco Santamaria at Alliance Bernstein. Investors can now get a "reasonably diversified portfolio" in the junk bond market.¬† "Why consider an EMHY strategy? In a world of very low global interest rates, yield is a strong motivation. By late February, EMHY was yielding about 5.9%‚Äîroughly on par with the US high-yield market. But note that the credit quality of the EMHY market is higher. For example, an estimated 49% of EMHY is rated BB, compared with 37% in the US high-yield market. This obviously increases the relative attractiveness of EMHY. "For some investors, an even bigger potential attraction is EMHY‚Äôs insensitivity to changes in US-dollar interest rates. ‚Ä¶But, as the chart below shows, EMHY‚Äôs total returns have historically been very weakly correlated with those of US Treasuries‚Äîcertainly by comparison with EM investment grade." The U.S. Economy Is Completely Out Of Balance (Business Insider) A look a corporate profits, wages, and the employment-population ratio shows how "out of balance" the U.S. economy is, writes Henry Blodget. Corporate profits have hit an all-time high, wages are at an all-time high.¬† "Companies are making more per dollar of sales than they ever have before. (And some people are still saying that companies are suffering from 'too much regulation' and 'too many taxes.' Maybe little companies are, but big ones certainly aren't. What they're suffering from is a myopic obsession with short-term profits at the expense of long-term value creation)." FRED/Business Insider ¬† The SEC Wants To Add 250 Examiners To Police Advisors (The Wall Street Journal) The SEC plans to add 250 examiners to oversee investment advisors. The SEC oversaw just 8 percent of advisors in 2012, and wants to increase that to 14 percent in 2014. 40 percent of practicing advisors have never been examined. This proposal would see the SEC's budget rise 27 percent from 2012. Independent Advisors Are Happier Than Broker Dealers (Investment News)  Independent advisors are happier with their jobs than those that work at big brokerages, according to a new report by J.D. Power &amp; Associates. Job satisfaction climbed 20 points on average on the year to 794 among independent advisors. For broker dealers it was about the same at 695.¬† Commonwealth Financial Network had the highest score among independent advisors and Edward Jones had the highest score among broker dealers.
REUTERS / Philimon BulawayoA crisp 100 billion Zimbabwean dollarThe best sentence I read today was this one: ‚ÄúIt has been four years and it has yet to be discredited as a viable alternative to fiat currency.‚Äù That's from Tyler Winklevoss (yes, that one), referring to Bitcoin (naturally), in a NYT story which reveals that the famous Winkelvoss twins own about 1% of the total Bitcoins that are out there. The crazy price swings of the digital "currency" ‚Äî which has an ultimately finite supply and is distributed via cryptology, with no Central Bank-like issuer ‚Äî has prompted numerous discussions about whether the currency could become an important economic entity that's actually a "viable alternative" to, say, the U.S. dollar. There's also a lot of discussion about whether the currency is in a bubble, though in a way that's a less interesting debate. The real interesting question is whether Bitcoin could become a real thing with an important economic function. It's not just the Winkelvosses who think it can. Last month, well-known VC Chris Dixon said that Bitcoin represented the 3rd great era of currency (first gold, then fiat, then math-based). Here's the problem: Fiat currency has intrinsic value. Bitcoin doesn't. There's a popular meme going around that fiat currencies (like the dollar, the British pound, the euro, and the yen) have no intrinsic value, and that they're only accepted because they're accepted, and that at some point, people will see through the "illusion" of the value of paper money, and realize that wealth lies somewhere else. Usually this argument is made by gold bugs. But fiat currencies have tremendous intrinsic value because governments say they do. That's why they're called fiat currencies. They have value by government fiat. This truth might be annoying, but the fact of the matter is that we live in a world of laws, where governments have armies, and can imprison you if you don't pay taxes. And every transaction that you do is taxed in some way, meaning that to operate in any practical matter in this world means transacting in U.S. dollars. So the U.S. dollar isn't just important because other people think it is. The U.S. dollar is important, because the world's strongest entity, with the full force of the U.S. army, the FBI, the CIA, the NSA, and various local authorities with guns demands that you pay them in U.S. dollars. That's not faith. That's the law. Sorry. Even outside of the requirement to pay taxes in U.S. dollars, the Federal Reserve system has established the dollar as the unit of currency for banking in the United States. So if you want to be plugged into the banking system at all ‚Äî which is a requirement for virtually all individuals ‚Äî you have to use U.S. dollars. So instantly, anyone who says the U.S. dollar is backed by "faith" or an "illusion" has no concept of the sheer force behind the currency. This isn't true of Bitcoins at all. It's true that there's a scarcity to them ‚Äî there's only a finite amount and there's a limit to how many there will ever be ‚Äî but scarcity alone does not give something lasting value. After all, I could create JoeCoins, and say that I will only issue 100. But it's unlikely that anybody would give me even a penny for one. And I can't force anyone to use them, because I don't have my own army or police force or my own set of laws. Nobody in the Bitcoin world has the power to compel usage and unlike, say, a commodity, a Bitcoin provides no beauty or functional use outside of that of a trading vehicle. This Bitcoin, unlike fiat currency (which is backed by the force of law) or commodity-based monies (which have some intrinsic value via use or beauty) is only of value because someone else will accept it, or pay more for it than what you bought it for. Meanwhile, any hope that merchants would be willing to regularly transact in Bitcoin is blown apart by the recent volatility, which makes it tremendously risky to engage in anything other than ultra-short-term transactions. You'd certainly never have someone perform a service priced in Bitcoin lasting any length of time, since you'd have no idea whether you were paying the person $20,000, $100,000 or $1 million. In light of these obvious problems, a strain of counter argument has emerged that the intrinsic value of Bitcoin lies in its role as a technology that's disruptive to the payments space. Timothy Lee writes in Forbes: As I write this, the value of all outstanding Bitcoins is a bit less than $3 billion. Is that a big number or a small number? It‚Äôs a difficult question because the answer depends on what happens to the underlying Bitcoin economy in the coming years. The value of Bitcoin-denominated transactions has been rising steadily. If that process continues, the ‚ÄúBitcoin economy‚Äù could be much larger in five or ten years than it is today. To give just one example, Western Union has a market capitalization of $8.5 billion and earned $1.3 billion in profit in 2010. If you think Bitcoin will eventually become a popular way to transmit money internationally, it‚Äôs not crazy to think Bitcoin‚Äôs ‚Äúmarket cap‚Äù will be in the same ballpark as Western Union‚Äôs. Obviously, that‚Äôs just a rough back-of-the-envelope estimate. Maybe Bitcoins won‚Äôt pose a competitive threat to Western Union. But the point is that at the scale of global financial networks, $3 billion is a pretty small amount of money. If Bitcoin proves superior to conventional financial networks for at least one significant application, it‚Äôs easy to imagine enough demand for the currency to justify the current valuation. Felix Salmon, in his widely-read piece on Bitcoin kind of said the same thing: ... bitcoin is in many ways the best and cleanest payments mechanism the world has ever seen. So if we‚Äôre ever going to create something better, we‚Äôre going to have to learn from what bitcoin does right ‚Äì as well as what it does wrong. Jerry Britto says something similar: The answer is that bitcoin doesn‚Äôt need to be a good unit of account or a good store of value to be a good medium of exchange. Indeed, the prices of products and services being sold for bitcoin online today are denominated in dollars and are converted at the market rate for bitcoin when the transaction happens. This is how WordPress, one of the most prominent companies accepting bitcoin, does it. In fact, WordPress never even handles bitcoin. They employ the services of a very interesting company called Bitpay that manages bitcoin payment processing for them. When you check out at WordPress using bitcoin, Bitpay quotes you the total of your dollar-denominated shopping cart in bitcoin at the current exchange rate, takes your bitcoin payment, and then deposits dollars in WordPress‚Äôs account. This allows WordPress to sell to persons in Iran or Haiti or anyone of the dozens of other countries where PayPal, Visa and MasterCard are not available. It also highlights bitcoin‚Äôs true disruptive quality as a payments system‚Äîone that is unstoppable, largely anonymous, and incredibly cheap to boot. It's possible that in fact Bitcoin has created the most efficient, disruptive payment system ever. But here's the thing, and this addresses Tim Lee's point above: If this is the only value, then all the world needs is one Bitcoin, since a digital currency should be divisible into an infinite number of "Bitcents" or whatever you want to call them. If we're just talking about a technological idea to transport money and communicate, then why do you need to create new ones? You don't. And if for some reason, people really want to make payment with this level of secrecy and cryptology (and admittedly, there's obviously a demand for private, untraceable money) then you can just create a Bitcoin clone or competitor (which already exist). So Bitcoin has no intrinsic worth from a currency perspective (no army, no functional use, no law backing it) and its role as a disruptive medium of payment is something that needn't involve scarcity, and is susceptible to cloning. We should also take a moment to praise what an amazing invention fiat currency as we know it is. People love to talk about how the Fed is debasing the dollar, but that's total nonsense. We've lived through extraordinary economic times in recent years, with monetary policy acrobatics that are virtually unprecedented. And a dollar will more or less buy you the same amount of "real stuff" (beer, rent, gas, etc.) that it did before all this. Yes, there's slow inflation over time, but that's mostly matched by increases in salaries, so it doesn't make a big deal. Even Europe, which is currently an economic and monetary disaster of historic proportions, has a currency that's stunningly stable and liquid. Think about that. Despite the horrible policy in the Eurozone, the Euro is still a fine currency to do business in. Heck, you know those pictures of Weimar Germany? Dialog International As awful as the hyperinflation was, people were still using the currency (at least to some extent) because they had to. So paper currency backed by government is amazingly stable, useful, and even in terrible times, still gets used. Bitcoin, sadly, has none of that going for it. It's a fascinating real-time economics lesson. The bubble mentality is just mesmerizing. If you remember the Yahoo Finance Message Boards back during the dotcom bubble, then the Bitcoin page on Reddit will seem very familiar. But little digital tokens backed by nothing but a hope that you can sell them to a greater fool tomorrow are not the future of currency, and have no intrinsic value.
toffehoff/FlickrIt was another nice up-day for the stock market. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,865, +62.9 pts, +0.4 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,593, +5.6 pts, +0.3 percentNASDAQ: 3,300, +2.9 pts, +0.0 percent And now the top stories:
Yesterday, Bitcoin plummeted from a morning high of $266 all the way to $105 in the afternoon before stabilizing around $150. From $266 to $105 is a 61 percent decline. So, how does that stack up against some of the worst stock market crashes in American history? There were "Black Monday" and "Black Tuesday" in October 1929, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 12.8 percent and 11.7 percent, respectively, directly preceding the Great Depression. There was another "Black Monday" in October 1987, when the Dow plummeted 22.6 percent. The 1987 "Black Monday" still holds the record for the biggest single-day percentage decline on the Dow ever. On October 15, 2008, amid a heightened period of economic and market uncertainty in the wake of the failure of Lehman Brothers a month before, the Dow reacted extremely negatively to news that the Treasury would invest $250 billion in the country's nine largest banks, falling 7.9 percent. The chart below shows these market crashes compared with what happened to Bitcoin. DJIA, Mt. Gox
Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles have filed criminal charges against former KPMG partner Scott London. KPMG recently fired London, for allegedly leaking non-public information on Herbalife and Sketchers. London is said to have tipped off a third party, which the SEC alleges is his friend Bryan Shaw. Shaw reportedly made over $1.2 million trading off those tips. Now CNBC has tweeted an image from the SEC complaint that seems to show London† allegedly receiving one of many $5,000 payments for the information from Shaw. CNBC reports that London typically got 10 percent of Shaw's profits. An SEC press release said Shaw gave London at least $50,000 in cash, a Rolex watch, jewelry, meals and tickets to entertainment. 'Exhibit A' in insider trading charges against ex-KPMG partner Scott London &amp; friend Brian Shaw. (via SEC complaint) twitter.com/CNBCnow/statusÖ
DoubleLine FundsJeffrey Gundlach, the bond god of DoubleLine Funds, just wrapped up a presentation at the New York Yacht Club. The title: "Why Own Any Bonds At All?" Gundlach has long been correctly bullish on Treasuries.† And he reiterated his position that anyone predicting a bond market collapse is "dead wrong." Among other things, he's convinced that the Federal Reserve will keep monetary policy easy for a very long time. "There's a better chance Bernanke buys every Treasury bond in existence before he ever sells a single one," quipped Gundlach according to Josh Brown. The presentation included must-see charts on the states of global debt, government finances, unemployment, and Japan. He also provided an update on some big trade recommendations including his call to buy natural gas and short Apple.
Courtesy of Martin John CallananSome nations have debated getting rid of their smallest monetary denominations.† Even President Obama came out against the penny earlier this year. Photographer Martin John Callanan†is trying to save these coins for future generations, using images. His project The Fundamental Units†is a series of extremely large prints showing the lowest value coins from countries around the world. He hopes to photograph coins from 166 different countries. The project is in†collaboration†with the UK's National Physical†Laboratory, where Callanan is using what he calls "Europe's best microscope," an†Alicona infinite focus 3D optical microscope to capture the images, according to Petapixel. He takes 4,000 exposures, and then over three days he is able to process them into one single 1.2 x 1.2 meter photo.
ReutersRon JohnsonJC Penney is headquartered out of Texas, but former CEO Ron Johnson, who was shown the door earlier this week, insisted on working from California. It's one of the many things critics have blamed for Johnson's demise at JC Penney. Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who has seen his big stake in JC Penney stock collapse in value since Johnson took over as CEO, is speaking at an NYU conference today. Via Bloomberg, Ackman says that Johnson's lack of physical presence at the Texas headquarters was an issue, because if the CEO isn't very visible, it lowers company morale. Ackman says the "physical presence" of the new CEO will be critical for JC Penney's turnaround. The hedge fund manager admitted that Johnson had the "right vision" for the future of JC Penney, but that sometimes hiring someone who had "always succeeded" before can become an issue. (Ackman recruited Johnson to the JC Penney CEO role from Apple, where he built a very successful retail business.) In other words, according to Ackman, it's hard to find an executive who both has the right vision and the ability to execute that vision. Going forward, Ackman says JC Penney's Home Store will be the best home section in any department store, and the company will restart coupon circulars in newspapers, a practice that ended under Johnson's tenure as CEO.
APArthur Scargill in 1984When the news of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's death broke on Monday, Ken Capstick, the Treasurer of the Socialist Labour Party (a more left wing off-shoot of the mainstream Labour Party) sent a text message to his friend and party leader Arthur Scargill. According to ITV News, the text message read "Thatcher Dead". Capstick got a response almost instantly. It said simply: "SCARGILL ALIVE !" To understand Scargill's enthusiastic response, you have to understand that the biggest battle of Thatcher's career wasn't against Argentina during the Falklands War, or even with her political opponents, the-then moribund Labour Party. It was against Britain's unions. These unions had brought the nation to a standstill several times in the 1970s with industrial action, and Thatcher made it clear from the outset of her time in office that she meant to crush their power. The biggest battle during the 1984-1985 miners' strike, which took place after Thatcher announced that many of the country's uneconomical mines, at that point nationalized, would be shut down, killing†20,000 jobs. Scargill had been the president of the National Union of Mineworkers since 1981, and had already become a vocal opponent of Thatcher. He called a strike without a ballot ó still a controversial move ó and became the figurehead for the media during the frequently violent conflict. Thatcher eventually wore down the miners, and the strike ended on on March 3 1985. Since that point, unions have become a much smaller force in British public life. Membership fell from a peak of 12 million in the late '70s to almost half that by the late '80s. It has never recovered. Scargill became a fringe figure on the left. Scargill's victorious text is therefore a hollow victory. As Lord Young, one of Thatcher's closest allies during the strikes, told ITV news today "Scargills's won no war...The only thing he has done is to outlive her."
NOTE:¬†We wrote earlier per a CNBC report that former KPMG partner Scott London, who faces a civil complaint from the SEC over his role in an insider trading scheme involving Herbalife, passed along rumors to the effect that Herbalife could go private. We have since been notified that this was taken out of context. The allegations regarding the "going private" rumors are found in a criminal complaint filed by the FBI today. This is how that section of the criminal complaint reads: London then referenced rumors that had been spread recently about HLF going private, which had been discussed in various news reports. London stated, "That is going to be where you make a ton of money...because, you know, we'll know that." London then advised that if that were to take place, "what we oughta do is, when I know that it's gonna start happening, what you do is you start just buying in small blocks, right so it¬†doesn't¬†draw attention and then, you know, then it doesn't look unusual at all.¬† Find the whole criminal complaint here &gt; -------------- EARLIER:¬†Herbalife shares are surging on the announcement that the SEC has charged former KPMG partner Scott London, who oversaw Herbalife audits, with insider trading. According to CNBC's Josh Lipton, London passed along tips about rumors that Herbalife could go private to investors, saying that was where they would really make money on the stock. The stock initially jumped to an intraday high of $39.80 from levels around $37.50 prior to the announcement, but has since backed off a bit. Now, it's up around 5 percent on the day. Thinkorswim
Declining inventory and healthy investor demand has helped drive up home prices. And economists have got increasingly bullish about the housing market. But Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg says he's seeing signs that housing demand has cooled. First, "bank-wide real estate credit has turned down again". Gluskin SheffSecond, Rosenberg points out mortgage applications fell 1.3 percent in the week ending April 5th, and have "stagnated over the past six months". The year-over-year mortgage applications rate which was at 16 percent pace in January has tumbled to 3 percent. This along with rising foreclosure starts, and lackluster job growth does raise some questions about the recovery.
The SEC has charged the former partner in charge of KPMGís Pacific Southwest audit practice and his friend Brian Shaw with insider trading on nonpublic information about firm clients.† Here's the full release: ***** The SEC alleges that Scott London tipped Bryan Shaw with confidential details about five KPMG audit clients and enabled Shaw to make more than $1.2 million in illicit profits trading ahead of earnings or merger announcements. The two men had met at a country club several years earlier and became close friends and golfing partners. London has said that he provided the inside information about his clients to help Shaw overcome financial struggles after his family-run jewelry business began faltering in the economic downturn. In exchange for the illegal trading tips, Shaw paid London at least $50,000 in cash that was usually delivered in bags outside of his Encino, Calif. jewelry store. Shaw also gave London an expensive Rolex watch as well as other jewelry, meals, and tickets to entertainment events. London, who lives in Agoura Hills, Calif., and worked at KPMG for nearly 30 years, recently informed the firm that he was under investigation by the SEC and criminal authorities for insider trading in the securities of several KPMG clients. The firm immediately terminated him. "London was honored with the highest trust of public companies, and he crassly betrayed that trust for bags of cash and a Rolex," said George S. Canellos, Acting Director of the Division of Enforcement. Michele Wein Layne, Director of the SEC's Los Angeles Regional Office, added, "As a leader at a major accounting firm, London's conduct was an egregious violation of his ethical and professional duties." In a parallel action, the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Central District of California today announced criminal charges against London. According to the SEC's complaint filed in federal court in Los Angeles, London began providing Shaw with nonpublic information in October 2010 and the misconduct continued for the next 18 months. Shaw and London communicated almost exclusively using their cell phones, although on at least one occasion London disclosed nonpublic information in the presence of others during a golf outing. According to the SEC's complaint, London was the lead partner on several KPMG audits including Herbalife and Skechers USA, and he was the firm's account executive for Deckers Outdoor Corp. Therefore, London was able to obtain material, nonpublic information about these companies prior to their earnings announcements or release of financial results. Shaw, who lives in Lake Sherwood, Calif., routinely traded at least a dozen times on the inside information he received from London. He grossed profits of more than $714,000 from trading based on confidential financial data about Herbalife, Skechers, and Deckers. The SEC alleges that London also gained access to inside information about impending mergers involving two former KPMG clients - RSC Holdings and Pacific Capital. London tipped Shaw with the confidential details. Shaw made nearly $192,000 by purchasing RSC Holdings stock the day before its Dec. 15, 2011, merger announcement. He made more than $365,000 in illicit profits from his well-timed purchase of Pacific Capital securities prior to a merger announcement on March 9, 2012. According to the SEC's complaint, in addition to the bags of cash and the Rolex watch valued at $12,000, Shaw gave London several pieces of expensive jewelry for his wife and routinely covered the costs of dinners and concerts the two men shared along with their families. The SEC's complaint charges London and Shaw with violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5. The complaint seeks a final judgment permanently ordering them to disgorge ill-gotten gains plus pay prejudgment interest and financial penalties, and enjoining them from future violations of these provisions of the federal securities laws. The SEC's investigation, which began in mid-2012 and is continuing, has been conducted by William Fiske and Marc Blau of the Los Angeles Regional Office. The SEC's litigation will be led by Lynn Dean. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Central District of California and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The SEC also appreciates assistance from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), Options Regulatory Surveillance Authority (ORSA), and Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE).
"Bond God" Jeff Gundlach is hosting a luncheon at the New York Yacht Club today. As part of the luncheon, Gundlach presents his market views. Josh Brown, author of the popular financial blog The Reformed Broker, is tweeting Gundlach's presentation live. Gundlach has a lot of interesting things to say today. One thing he recommended was shorting Chipotle. According to Brown, he was saving this idea to be unveiled at the Ira Sohn investment conference, but he couldn't resist mentioning it today. Below are Brown's tweets re-capping the presentation. Gundlach: Those predicting a collapse for the bond market are "dead wrong" Gundlach: Forget Fed Minutes, QE is not stopping anytime soon, talk is just talk. Yellen's down to do this til 2025. "There's a better chance Bernanke buys every Treasury bond in existence before he ever sells a single one" -ohhh sh*t. The message is that ZIRP and QE are a way of life now, find ways to cope and profit. "Japan is important to watch, it's a pace car for stock market peaks, weird policy responses and currency debasement." Lololol "The annual $1 trillion budget deficit is propping up the economy, the only thing abetting this is QE" - hence, it is indispensable. Gundlach: Bond indexing has spoiled investors but now it's over. Treasurys make up the largest index weight and yield the least now. Gundlach: "Emerging market corporate debt is THE best area of investment grade fixed income right now" "I think the Yen will go to 200 vs the dollar over time." Ohmygod Gundlach agrees with John Hussman that profit margins will be mean reverting shortly. This won't hurt corporate bonds necessarily. On housing: NY is not America. "Paying a hundred million for a New York apartment is kind of like a jerk tax" - big laugh line On dividend stocks - you cannot compare them to bonds without risk-adjustment, volatility is night and day. 'Private equity and hedge funds are NOT "alternative asset classes" - they are equities in drag.' Question on preferred stocks - first time I've ever heard Jeff admits he knows nothing about something. He punts. Gundlach on his short AAPL / long nay gas trade: "It was better than you thought it was - never went negative a single day" NEW GUNDLACH SHORT IDEA: CHIPOTLE. "Gourmet Burito is an oxymoron". Was saving it for Ira Sohn but couldn't resist mentioning. $CMG Gundlach on when does he have too much AUM in Total Return: In 2009 we could have managed a trillion, right now probably not even $75 bil. Takes a dig at PIMCO but not by name re: shadow financial markets, cant be "total return" and so big that you have counterparty risk. Gundlach mentions John Paulson and Bill Miller specifically as examples of managers getting too big to succeed. Jeff is worried about muni market - believes that tax benefit for ultra high net worth will be stripped away someday. "Please don't tell me the Fed can't create inflation if it tried. I think a check for $1 million to every American would get it done." LOL
Apple announces first-quarter 2013 earnings results on April 23. Earnings are expected to come in at $10.11 per share, down from the $13.53 EPS the company posted in the fourth quarter and slightly below the $10.14 per share the company made in the first quarter of 2012. The stock has lost nearly 40 percent of its value since topping out at $705.07 in September, and many investors continue to struggle with where it goes next. According to Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty, those hoping for an Apple earnings rebound in the second quarter of 2013 are likely to be disappointed, and shares may even head lower after Apple announces its first quarter earnings later this month, as she expects weaker forward guidance from management than the market currently expects. If that sparks a further sell-off in Apple, though, then Huberty is a buyer. In a note to clients this morning, she writes: March quarter gross margin and June quarter EPS guide the most important metrics in C1Q, potentially helping build confidence around Appleís ability to hold gross margin while introducing lower priced products.†iPhone and iPad units are less relevant this quarter, in our view, given likely inventory adjustments and delays ahead of product launches in September. What to do with the stock and upcoming catalysts: We see potential near-term share price weakness on a lower than expected June quarter EPS guide. But, we are buyers ahead of June into the following catalysts: 1) Preview of iOS 7 at WWDC in June which could highlight a new ìkiller appî such as mobile wallet, 2) A lighter 9.8-inch iPad and new iPad Mini in September quarter, 3) New iPhone 5S and lower-priced iPhone launch in September. Whether or not Apple can deliver on product launches later this year that will find favor with investors is an open question, but if Huberty is right, the stock could finally start to see a turnaround in the next few months.
A man suspected of creating Bitcoin has issued a denial he did so. In 2011, New Yorker contributor Joshua Davis went on the hunt for Bitcoin's inventor. He came up empty handed. But he narrowed it down to several candidates whose interests and backgrounds made them pretty strong suspects. One of them was an Irish computer science student named Michael Clear, who had been ...† ...hired by Allied Irish Banks to improve its currency-trading software, and [who] co-authored an academic paper on peer-to-peer technology. The [first-ever Bitcoin academic] paper employed British spelling. Clear was well versed in economics, cryptography and peer-to-peer networks.† "I'm not Satoshi [Nakamoto, the likely pseudonymous author of the paper], but even if I was I wouldn't tell you," Clear said.Last week, Clear updated his blog adamantly denying he created the crypto-currency. Here's his post: I feel bad adding more because I know it's such a trivial thing but it might lead to fewer emails.  I'm a humble research student with an interest in crypto; I am very far from being any kind of expert in anything. As mentioned earlier, I never worked in a bank, and I'm certainly not an economist (I've received emails to this effect :)). My interest in bitcoin stemmed from its design and its cryptographic properties etc. Josh originally contacted me at Crypto 2011 about a paper I was involved with related to p2p, and I met up with him out of curiosity as to why he would be interested. For about 20 minutes we talked about that. When bitcoin came up, I remember we had a brief casual chat; I was naturally startled when he thought I could be Satoshi, and there was some humor and regrettable mistakes on my part.  However, various misinterpretations and losses of context along with some misleading summaries in further reports unfortunately helped trigger the whole thing... There are minor things in the article that also give off a different impression e.g: brand of glasses (frames) (Incidentally, as much as its seems silly to admit it, I wasn't even aware of their brand until the article :) - they were a present etc.) Anyway, I could go on about other aspects, but it's such a trivial thing to focus on. Sorry to have bored you but hopefully this page helps to clear some things up. Bitcoin is down approximately 50 percent in the past 24 hours.
Time.comThe latest cover of Time Magazine reads: "Made In The USA: Manufacturing Is Back, but where are the jobs?"¬†(h/t Mark Perry) The weekly's Rana Foroohar and Bill Saporito write that thanks to cheaper energy and more competitive domestic wages, America is making stuff again. They also cite Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth, who in a recent note said the offshoring boom of previous decades has begun to wane. This is an economic story that many cite as being extremely bullish for America. But as we have reported, there isn't much evidence to suggest this shift has actually begun. Cheaper energy does not yet seem to be having a material impact on manufacturers. And U.S. goods appear to be no more competitive than what's made in Europe. And Ashworth himself says in his note that we are still importing a ton of stuff. US manufacturing is still struggling, however, with imports of manufactured goods reaching a record¬†high of almost $1.9trn in 2012. Last year, imports were almost 14% higher than the pre-recession peak reached in 2008. ¬† When an economic trend makes the cover of a magazine, it's often an ominous sign. So maybe we should let the "American manufacturing renaissance" meme cool for a bit until we gather more evidence. Read more at Time.com.
Shutterstock Skorpios, a private island off the coast of Greece that for decades belonged to Greek shipping billionaire Aristotle Onassis, has been sold to an anonymous Russian billionaire for $153 million, Erin Burnett at CNN reports. The island, which Onassis bought in 1962 for $15,000, was made famous as the location of Onassis' wedding to former First Lady Jackie Kennedy in 1968. The island was sold by†Athina Onassis Roussel, Onassis's granddaughter and only surviving heir, according to The Daily Mail. She had reportedly struck a deal to sell the island to the Emir of Qatar, but the sale fell through when she refused to come down from the initial $260 million price, The Telegraph reported last month. The Emir bought a group of six nearby islands for a reported $11 million instead. There's no word on which Russian billionaire picked up the island. It's located in the Ionian Sea and is heavily forested, with sandy beaches. An aerial shot and a photo of the dock at Skorpios are below: Google Earth Shutterstock
We won't be bringing you any updates on the price of Bitcoin for the next 10 hours or so. That's because Mt. Gox, the world's largest Bitcoin exchange, has halted trading in the virtual currency until 10 PM ET "to allow the market to cooldown following the drop in price" that happened yesterday. Below is a screenshot of the trading log-in page on the Mt. Gox website: Mt. GoxClick to enlarge Mt. Gox said in a Facebook post overnight that a serious lag in the Bitcoin trading platform ‚Äì due to a rapid influx of new users in recent days ‚Äì caused a panic that resulted in yesterday's big sell-off. Lags like that can also be caused by "distributed denial of service" attacks, wherein¬†hackers use large groups of computers to flood a website with connections, such that no one else can connect to it. Last week, Mt. Gox said it had been subjected to a¬†"a DDoS attack like we have never seen." This morning, in a note to clients, ConvergEx Group Chief Market Strategist Nick Colas ‚Äì one of the only Wall Street analysts who has paid any attention to Bitcoin ‚Äì wrote that ongoing DDoS attacks on Bitcoin exchanges and services were hackers trying to send the virtual currency plunging in order to scoop it up for lower prices. Whatever the cause of yesterday's sell-off ‚Äì whether it was hackers trying to manipulate the market down or just a massive influx of new users ‚Äì exchanges like Mt. Gox will ¬†have to figure out ways to mitigate the conditions that lead to massive price swings like that in order to attract a wider user base.
China's explosive economic growth has largely been driven by its booming exports.¬† And its exports have been driven by its low cost of production. However, with its working age population shrinking, wages have been on the rise.¬† And global manufacturers have increasingly moved toward even lower cost countries. "China is no longer a low-cost producer," writes KKR's Henry McVey. "Importantly, we think rising wages, particularly at the low end, are a structural phenomenon as the population of younger workers aged 15-29 will shrink at an average pace of five million a year between now and 2030, largely due to the one-child policy implemented in 1979. By comparison, this age bracket had actually been growing by two to three million per year annually until recently." Here's a chart from McVey's report showing wage trends in Asia's lowest cost countries: KKR
ForaTv/ YoutubeProfessor Scott Galloway says you should "get the easy stuff right."NYU Stern Professor Scott Galloway gave some valuable life advice to a student via email that's now gone viral.  When the student arrived an hour late to the professor's brand management class, Galloway told him to leave. Later the student emailed Galloway, explaining that he was shopping around for classes, which is why he was late: "It was more probable that my tardiness was due to my desire to sample different classes rather than sheer complacency."  Galloway eviscerated the student in his reply, which he forwarded to his TA to share with the rest of the class (keeping the student anonymous). Deadspin originally published the full email exchange in 2010; we've reached out to Galloway, who gave us permission to run his response. He also shared that currently he's "getting an email about every three minutes from people (all over the world) voicing support/anger (about an 8:1 ratio)":  óó Forwarded Message óó- From: scott@stern.nyu.edu To: "xxxx" Sent: Tuesday, February 9, 2010 9:34:02 PM GMT -08:00 US/Canada Pacific Subject: Re: Brand Strategy Feedback xxxx: Thanks for the feedback. I, too, would like to offer some feedback. Just so I've got this straight...you started in one class, left 15-20 minutes into it (stood up, walked out mid-lecture), went to another class (walked in 20 minutes late), left that class (again, presumably, in the middle of the lecture), and then came to my class. At that point (walking in an hour late) I asked you to come to the next class which "bothered" you. Correct? You state that, having not taken my class, it would be impossible to know our policy of not allowing people to walk in an hour late. Most risk analysis offers that in the face of substantial uncertainty, you opt for the more conservative path or hedge your bet (e.g., do not show up an hour late until you know the professor has an explicit policy for tolerating disrespectful behavior, check with the TA before class, etc.). I hope the lottery winner that is your recently crowned Monday evening Professor is teaching Judgement and Decision Making or Critical Thinking. In addition, your logic effectively means you cannot be held accountable for any code of conduct before taking a class. For the record, we also have no stated policy against bursting into show tunes in the middle of class, urinating on desks or taking that revolutionary hair removal system for a spin. However, xxxx, there is a baseline level of decorum (i.e., manners) that we expect of grown men and women who the admissions department have deemed tomorrow's business leaders. xxxx, let me be more serious for a moment. I do not know you, will not know you and have no real affinity or animosity for you. You are an anonymous student who is now regretting the send button on his laptop. It's with this context I hope you register pause...REAL pause xxxx and take to heart what I am about to tell you: xxxx, get your shit together. Getting a good job, working long hours, keeping your skills relevant, navigating the politics of an organization, finding a live/work balance...these are all really hard, xxxx. In contrast, respecting institutions, having manners, demonstrating a level of humility...these are all (relatively) easy. Get the easy stuff right xxxx. In and of themselves they will not make you successful. However, not possessing them will hold you back and you will not achieve your potential which, by virtue of you being admitted to Stern, you must have in spades. It's not too late xxxx... Again, thanks for the feedback. Professor Galloway
REUTERS/Kin Cheung KC/FANew loans rose by 1.06 trillion yuan in March, compared with 620 billion yuan in February. This was above expectations for an increase of 900 billion yuan.¬† Total social financing (TSF) which includes trust loans, entrusted loans, FX loans, bankers‚Äô acceptance bills, corporate bonds, and non-financial stock sales ‚Äì surged to 2.54 trillion yuan in March. This was up from 1.07 trillion yuan the previous month.¬† M2, the broad measure of money supply, beat expectations, rising 15.7 percent. Meanwhile, Chinese FX reserves rose by $130 billion to $3.44 trillion in Q1. The impact of disguised Forex inflows as exports isn't clear. We have previously reported that to truly understand China's monetary stance investors should watch seven-day repo rates, revised TSF growth, and loan growth. The rise in new loans and TSF is cause of concern because Chinese policymakers are closely watching the property market and shadow banking and are trying to crack down on both. Fitch recently downgraded China's local currency sovereign rating. It warned that "risks over China's financial stability have grown. Credit has grown significantly faster than GDP since 2009. China experienced the second-fastest expansion of credit in real terms." Fitch also warned that total credit, including shadow banking could have reached 198 percent of GDP. "We expect the various tightening measures (housing &amp; shadow banking) to bite from here onwards," Societe Generale's Klaaus Baader wrote in a note to clients. "March may mark the peak of easy credit conditions. Nevertheless, the current monetary environment should be able to support a further growth pick-up in Q2." The Chinese central bank is however expected to maintain a "neutral stance" this year. Here's a look at China's money supply and bank loan growth since 2002: BAML
John Moore / GettyOne of the key elements in President Barack Obama's budget is the proposal to adopt the "chained CPI," a metric that will make Security Security inflation adjustments increase at a slower rate. The move is a concession to factions in the GOP that want to see some form of entitlement reform before coming to the table for a budget negotiation.† Still, the move has alienated the president from former allies, campaign supporters and progressives on the left. The decision to shift to chained CPI is, unquestionably, a major cut to benefits. On the same token, slowing the rate of cost of living adjustments is definitely a way to reduce the deficit.† According to the Congressional Budget Office, on average the rate of chained CPI growth is 0.25% less than the rate of CPI growth. While this might not seem like much, the way CPI is used to calculate the annual cost of living adjustment is compounded annually.† For instance, if the annual growth rate of the current CPI metric ó CPI-W ó is 3 percent, then the average annual growth rate of chained CPI would be 2.75 percent. Over time, the compounding effect of annual cost of living adjustment increases will show a major difference between what a person earns under CPI and what a person earns under chained CPI.† As simplified example of this compounding effect, compare the Social Security payouts for a single individual who elects to receive payments at 65 at $10,000 per year initially. The blue line is the total annual payment with CPI ó an example inflation rate of 3% ó and the red line is the total annual payment with chained CPI ó at the example inflation rate of 2.75%.† Walter Hickey BI You'll notice that ó as intended ó the annual payments grow more slowly with our sample chained CPI than they do under CPI. The thing is, that really adds up over time.† Here's the chart of the cumulative losses for the individual in this hypothetical scenario: Walter Hickey/BI In short, a shift to chained CPI means increasing, compounding losses over time for Social Security beneficiaries.† Still, consider this from the government's perspective. Under the White House plan, here's how much the government saves annually through the move to chained CPI, for mandatory spending alone: Walter Hickey / BI Each year, the government benefits more and more from the change to COLA.† This is why, despite the benefits it strips from seniors on Social Security, the cost of living adjustment change is so enticing for policy makers. Targeting cost of living adjustments is a way to cut benefits without looking like they're cutting benefits, while at the same time cutting benefits in such a way that the cuts compound and grow.† The compounding effect ó the part of the plan that makes this so difficult for beneficiaries ó is the exact reason Washington policymakers love the idea as a form of deficit reduction.
Yesterday, the Bitcoin market crashed. During the worst of it, the virtual currency had lost 61 percent of its value from its intraday peak price of $266. What happened? The trading platform was suffering some serious lag, sending the market into a panic that resulted in a big sell-off. The big slowdown was initially pegged as a "distributed denial of service" (DDoS) attack, in which hackers use large groups of computers to flood a website with connections, such that no one else can connect to it. This happened to the world's biggest Bitcoin exchange, Mt. Gox, just last week. ConvergEx Group Chief Market Strategist Nick Colas, one of the only Wall Street analysts who has taken an interest in Bitcoin, writes in a note this morning that the reason for these DDoS attacks is that hackers are trying to knock the virtual currency down in order to scoop it up at cheaper prices. In a note to clients this morning, he writes: Now here‚Äôs the weird bit: hackers attack the infrastructure (exchanges and wallets) around the core open source software because they want to BUY bitcoins at reduced prices. Their idea is to sew some confusion in the market, shake out owners who have large gains and don‚Äôt want to lose them, buy in the resulting melee, and sell when things return to normal. It usually takes barely more than a day, seems pretty easy to do, and yields a big payoff. Mt. Gox released a notification on its Facebook page¬†overnight to the effect that yesterday's slowdown was not, in fact, due to a DDoS attack, but instead was a result of the rapid amount of new users that have flocked to the trading platform in recent days and weeks. Whatever the cause, the key here is that the Bitcoin market has to transition to a state of lower volatility before it can really gain widespread acceptance. Days like yesterday don't do much to inspire confidence in the virtual currency from a wider group of consumers and investors. According to Colas, "This is where bitcoin stops being a science project and starts helping anyone interested in capital markets or macro policy understand our world just a little bit better." In his note, he brings up three points related to the volatility issue: Trust is the keystone of any currency as well as the macroeconomic policies and support structures which surround it.¬†Even if bitcoin fully recovers from today‚Äôs problems, it is still a black eye for the support structures around the core ‚ÄúMining‚Äù process. The Fed has a lot more leeway for error ‚Äì the dollar is still the legal tender of the U.S., for better or worse.¬†¬† Volatility matters more than level.¬†¬†Recall our two trader‚Äôs aphorisms at the top of this note. Wild price swings are tough on humans; they encourage fear-based decisions which often prove ill-informed and expensive. Watching the churning volatility of the bitcoin market today, I had a new appreciation for the Fed‚Äôs controversial bond buying programs. The Fed knows that price volatility in capital markets is the true enemy of economic recovery after the storms of 2007-2008. By flooding the financial system with liquidity, they reduced the fears of another crisis.¬† It just so happens that lower equity market volatility is tied to higher prices. But the real goal for the Fed ‚Äì and one that it has accomplished in spades ‚Äì is to dampen volatility so businesses, consumes, and investors don‚Äôt thrash about making fear-driven choices. This approach hasn‚Äôt been cheap, to say the least. But there‚Äôs no doubting that it has had its intended outcome.¬† Before today, Bitcoin had been an almost unalloyed marketing and investment success.¬† Its central value proposition ‚Äì anonymous, decentralized, open source code-based "Money" ‚Äì appeals to a wide swath of the developed and emerging world. And there is still a lot of interest in leveraging the core infrastructure to provide a unique, secure, low cost payment system which works as well in Delhi as Dallas, Boston as Beijing. But every investor or entrepreneur who wants to take that journey needs to understand that the path will be far shorter and easier if bitcoin price volatility is much lower than what we saw today. In short, whatever the cause of yesterday's sell-off ‚Äì whether it was hackers trying to manipulate the market down or just a massive influx of new users ‚Äì exchanges like Mt. Gox will ¬†have to figure out ways to mitigate volatility like that in order to attract a wider user base.
T. Cowart/flickrWe are entering one of the more unusual earnings seasons in recent years. Namely, we keep hitting all-time highs. No problem, right? Well, Dow Theory's Richard Moroney has pointed out some disquieting facts about companies' profit reports in his latest note to clients. First off, profit growth has slowed in recent quarters.†Consensus estimates project per-share profits for the S&amp;P 500 will be up 1.5 percent ó "anemic," Moroney says.† So far, investors appear to have shrugged that off. But negative outlook updates now outnumber positive updates by about 3.6-to-1 ó†the highest ratio since at least 2006, Moroney says, citing FactSet. What's more, he adds, stocks are no longer particularly cheap ó average price/earnings ratios are now back in line with long-term norms. Moroney's conclusion: "If results disappoint, the temptation to lock up gains may prove hard to resist." Rite Aid, Sirius XM and Pier 1 all announce earnings today.
In case you need more confirmation that the US economy is out of balance, here are three charts for you. 1) Corporate profit margins just hit another all-time high. Companies are making more per dollar of sales than they ever have before. (And some people are still saying that companies are suffering from "too much regulation" and "too many taxes." Maybe little companies are, but big ones certainly aren't. What they're suffering from is a myopic obsession with short-term profits at the expense of long-term value creation). Business Insider, St. Louis Fed 2) Wages as a percent of the economy just hit another all-time low. Why are corporate profits so high? One reason is that companies are paying employees less than they ever have as a share of GDP. And that, in turn, is one reason the economy is so weak: Those "wages" are represent spending power for consumers. And consumer spending is "revenue" for other companies. So the profit obsession is actually starving the rest of the economy of revenue growth. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed 3) Fewer Americans are working than at any time in the past three decades.¬†The other reason corporations are so profitable is that they don't employ as many Americans as they used to. As a result, the employment-to-population ratio has collapsed. We're back at 1980s levels now. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed¬† In short, our current obsessed-with-profits philosophy is creating a country of a few million overlords and 300+ million serfs. That's not what has made America a great country. It's also not what most people think America is supposed to be about. So we might want to rethink that. Specifically, we might want to have the goal of our corporations be to create long-term value for all of their constituencies (customers, employees, and shareholders), not just short-term profit for their shareholders. Meanwhile, if you want to know more about what's wrong with the economy, and why our current obsession with¬†short-term-profit¬†is hurting all of us, flip through these charts:
Yesterday, Bitcoin hit an all-time high of $266. Then, it crashed as much as 61 percent before rebounding back to levels around $150 late last night. The low of the day yesterday was $105. This morning already, the market is getting close to those lows again. Bitcoin is now trading at $120. As the volume panel at the bottom of the chart shows, there was a large spike in selling activity this morning, sending the the virtual currencty on its latest leg lower. bitcoin.clarkmoody.com Note: There is no x-axis on this chart, but it shows prices from April 9 through today. Mt. Gox, the world's biggest Bitcoin exchange, blamed yesterday's sell-off on a trading lag that was caused by the rush of new users to the system in recent days. It will be interesting to see if prices continue to head lower today.
FlickrThis is not Brian Shaw.A jeweler and diamond broker has apologized for trading on former KMPG partner Scott London's stock tips.¬† Los Angeles-area resident Bryan Shaw has issued a statement saying he's cooperating with multiple federal investigators.¬† Bloomberg's Edvard Pettersson has Shaw's statement, via his lawyer: During 2010 through 2012, I received non-public information from Scott London about a number of companies and then profited substantially from stock trades based upon that information. I¬†cannot begin to apologize for my incredibly stupid actions...Over the past several months, I have fully cooperated with the FBI, the SEC, and the U.S. Department of Justice in their ongoing investigation of this matter. I expect that my actions will result in significant civil and criminal consequences, but I realize that this is the painful price I will pay for my transgressions. Multiple sources report Shaw is a partner at¬†Shaw Diamond Co. of Encino, Calif.
Michael Yarish/AMCBitcoins are all the rage this week. The digital currency has gained so much attention that normal retailers are starting to accept it. One particular New York City bar called EVR just opened a few months ago and is reportedly the first in NYC to accept Bitcoins. The bar's owner Charlie Shrem told CNNMoney he accepts Bitcoins because the transactions are cheaper than regular credit cards. The bar uses an iPad app called BitPay to accept the payments. Read more on CNNMoney &gt;
Texas has seen incredible changes in oil production because of advancements in shale technology. From one 200-mile view at night, you can easily spot the urban areas of Dallas, Houston, San Antonio and Austin, but the strip just south of the Alamo City and U.S. Global Investorsí headquarters illuminates something else entirely: the bright lights of big oil generated by the Eagle Ford shale formation. In its new report pictured here, the University of Texas at San Antonio provides more than just a satellite view of oil production in the area. First, take a look at Texasí overall crude oil production during the past few decades. Since hitting about 2.6 million barrels of oil per day in 1981, production began slowly declining, bottoming to just over 1 million barrels per day during the early part of this century, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA). Over the past few years, though, daily production has gone vertical, with the state pumping out more than 2.2 million barrels each day. Production has grown so rapidly, that if Texas were a country, it would be the 13th largest oil-producing nation in the world, based on international crude oil output from November, says Mark Perry in his Carpe Diem blog. The primary driver of this incredible lift has been the Eagle Ford formation, an area 50 miles wide and 400 miles long. According to the UTSAís Center for Community and Business Research, oil out of Eagle Ford has increased from about 5 million barrels to more than 110 million barrels in a matter of only two years. This huge boom in oil production has had a tremendous economic impact on Texas as well. UTSAís report calculates that within a 20-county area, the Eagle Ford Shale added more than $61 billion in economic impact in 2012. This number includes 14 counties that have actively producing wells, along with six counties that experience indirect activity from the Eagle Ford area. According to UTSA, Eagle Ford is expected to continue contributing to the area over the next several years. ìThe region will support 127,000 jobs and produce an economic impact of $89 billion for Texas in 2022,î says the report. We believe these economic bright lights have created significant opportunities for natural resources investors. See how you can access this trend. Read more: Download your copy of UTSA report here. † Read The Significant Impact of U.S. Oil Production. † See how investors can benefit from rising oil production. † By clicking the link above, you will be directed to a third-party website. U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this website and is not responsible for its content.
MSNBCOn MSNBC's "Morning Joe" Thursday, host Joe Scarborough announced coming off a commercial break that he was "angry." What set him off were comments from Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), who on Wednesday had criticized President Barack Obama's budget's cuts to Social Security as a "shocking attack on seniors." Walden was soon rebuked by the conservative group Club for Growth, who questioned why he wouldn't be willing to accept the most "modest" of entitlement reforms. Scarborough ó who has been pushing for Obama to offer some entitlement concessions for quite some time ó wondered the same. "It makes me so angry, I just don't know what to do with myself," Scarborough said. "Oh, my God. This is unbelievable." Scarborough went on to joke that he wanted to start a political action committee, so that he could "Bloomberg" any politician trying to "demagogue" the issue of entitlement reforms. "Anybody, any Republican, any Democrat that runs against responsible rational solutions to take care of our long-term debt is selling out our children, is stealing from the next generation,î Scarborough said.  "It's generational theft, and for Republicans to do this is beyond shameless. They did it in 2010. To tell the President ó we've been busting his chops for months ó he just dips his toe in the water, and Greg Walden comes swinging. This is shameless." Watch the clip below, courtesy of MSNBC:  Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
Flickr / Mick_tnThe stock market's epic bull run continues.¬† Yesterday, the S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high. One of the notable characteristics of this rally has been the lack of major pullbacks or corrections. Perhaps it is due to the absence of short sellers.¬† The Wall Street Journal's Steven Russolillo spoke with Bespoke Investment Group's Paul Hickey. Short interest, or bearish bets, on S&amp;P 500 stocks fell to 3.6% of shares outstanding during the final two weeks of March, the lowest level in a year, data from Bespoke Investment Group show. Short sellers borrow shares in hopes of buying them back at a later date, aiming to profit from a price decline....For short sellers, Hickey wonders if they‚Äôve ‚Äúthrown in the towel.‚Äù U.S. futures are up slightly ahead of the market open.¬† Perhaps we'll see another all time closing high today.
Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesIn March, 152,500 properties received a foreclosure filing in March.† This is according to RealtyTrac's latest report. This was down 1 percent from February and down 23 percent from a year ago.† But foreclosure starts ñ the pace at which mortgages enter the foreclosure process ñ were up 2 percent on the month to 71,113. New York saw the biggest surge in foreclosure starts up 200 percent year-over-year. Overall, 23 states saw foreclosure starts rise on a monthly basis, and 12 states posted an annual rise. While economists have been cranking up their home price forecasts this year, the rise in foreclosure starts is a trend to watch closely. "Although the overall national foreclosure trend continues to head lower, late-blooming foreclosures are bolting higher in some local markets where aggressive foreclosure prevention efforts in previous years are wearing off," said Daren Blomquist, vice president at RealtyTrac in a press release.† "Meanwhile, more recent foreclosure prevention efforts in other states have drastically increased the average time to foreclose, which could result in a similar outbreak of delayed foreclosures down the road in those states." Here are some details from the report: Here's a look at the trajectory of foreclosure starts and completions since 2005: RealtyTrac
As I've discussed before, this risks undoing all the progress made against senior poverty since the passage of Medicare and Medicaid in 1965. 25% of seniors were poor according to official poverty line in 1968, compared to just 9.4% in 2006. Note, however, that the Supplemental Poverty Measure, which includes things like out of pocket health care expenses which hit seniors disproportionately, already shows a 16.1% rate by 2009. And our senior poverty rate, measured by the international standard of 50% of median income, is already 25%, much higher than most developed countries, more than three times Sweden's rate and over four times as high as Canada. Why is Obama doing this? We just rejected the candidate who wanted to cut Social Security and Medicare. Perhaps, as Krugman (link above) suggests, he chasing the fantasy of "being the adult in the room," but this is a losing proposition. As Brian Beutler points out: Just like that, Chained CPI morphs from a thing President Obama is willing to offer Republicans into a thing Republicans dismiss as a ‚Äúshocking attack on seniors.‚Äù We've seen this game before. The Heritage Foundation's health care plan became "death panels" when President Obama endorsed it.¬† And, as Beutler's title makes clear, we have plenty of examples of the President negotiating with himself to bad effect, most notably in the 2011 debt ceiling battle. If this cut really happens, Social Security benefits will steadily fall in true inflation-adjusted terms due to the magic of compounding. Moreover, with 49% of the workforce having no retirement plan at work¬†and another 31% with only a grossly inadequate 401(k), the cuts will worsen the coming retirement crisis. The only question will then be: how high will senior poverty have to go before we do something about it? Read more posts on Middle Class Political Economist ¬ª
Johnsonís finally out. Ullmanís in. And now Wall Streetís left wondering, whatís next? Perhaps most pertinently (and headline-grabbingly), analysts now find themselves debating, post-Johnson, whether the cash-strapped, marketshare-losing 111-year-old American institution is set to go private or stay public. Of course, many believe there exists a strong case for a JCP LBO.† And really, to most, it all makes sense.† Ullmanís CEO-ship buys Ackman, et. al. time to stabilize the internal turbulence while steadying the governance and operations of the retailer moving forward. Furthermore, the mere timing of Johnsonís departure suggests a turn toward the private. †Finally, and most publicly, JCP shareholders are already less-than-thrilled with the retailerís recent antics, both internal and external, and most are seemingly ready for a successful and immediate LBO. Hereís the thing: this type of distressed transaction is tougher ñ and more improbable -† than those not familiar with/fluent in the distressed, turnaround, and/or performance improvement space think.† Letís take a look at why this scenario is less-than-likely. Or at least less likely than the markets are suggesting. † First, the (current) analytics: As trading closed on Wednesday, hereís where things stand: ∑†††††††† Current Share Price: ~$14 ∑†††††††† Current Market Cap: ~$3.1B ∑†††††††† Current Enterprise Value: ~$5.1B Furthermore, the companyís Book Value per Share of $14.46 currently hovers around the†current share price, while anemic gross margins (31.4%) and a TTM EBITDA of (~$800MM) already seemingly spell doom for the retailer. Now, these numbers as outlined alone mean that an outside investor interested in JCP would have to be comfortable with spending multiple $billions alone to acquire, as it stands now, a rotting retail enterprise struggling to regain its economic footing in the declining department store space. Of course, this transaction hasnít priced in JCPís shrinking marketshare, declining sales, and complete absence of a strategy ready to stem the economic bleed (after all, the companyís burned through more than $2.1B in cash in the past 3 years - $600MM on Johnsonís strategy alone in the past 12 months).† In short, financially, this transaction will be more expensive than analysts already predict. Furthermore, this isnít just a turnaround purchase ñ itís a buy-into a complete reinvention.† Of a multi-billion dollar retailer with no current strong leadership, product, or consumer future. Not to mention a complete absence of an online foot-print in a declining bricks-and-mortar space. So, what about the other options on the table that could boost the attractiveness of JCP for an LBO play? Despite experts touting that, pre-LBO, ìJCP could buy itself some time via real estate sales or leases, being able to pick up around USD1bn-USD1.5bn in cash, albeit less rent, if it offloaded some of its roughly 300 locations,î a successful real estate play seems unlikely. Think about: a month ago, Vornado Realty Trust - one of the largest owner/mangers of commercial real estate in the United States, ruining a portfolio totaling more than 100 million square feet - sold more than 40% of its shares (10MM shares at $16/share) of JCP at a significant loss, after J.C. Penney's declines already left the firm (and Pershing Squared) with combined losses topping $800MM. As optimistic as potential gains from a JCP real estate play may be, would Steve Roth have logically sold half of Vornadoís shares with such an immediately apparent and achievable real estate solution in hand?† Clearly not. Vornadoís move should have signaled to the marketplace a significant lack of confidence in the idea that real estate provides a sound and realistic solution to JCPís current cash issues. Furthermore, think about this logically: what retailer/company is in the market for JCP real estate on either a macro or granular level? At a higher level, JCPís an even tougher private sell than the marketís giving it credit for. Without flagellating Johnson further, the past 17+ months at JCP have involved an experiment to generate a very exciting and innovative 10% of the company, while the remaining 90% has ingloriously and expensively imploded. In terms of square footage success, it is an open question whether that approach can successfully be expanded to the rest of the square footage, and if so, at what cost and over what timeframe ñ an obvious ìwhat-ifî scenario few private equity firms would be willing to take on. Additionally, litigation with Macyís over the Martha Stewart situation could severely inhibit any strategy regarding home goods merchandise.†Finally, the losses incurred by going private by such shareholders as Ackman and Vornado seem, barring an immediate and unforeseen revelation or disaster, incredibly† unlikely.† In short, give JCP time and space to correct its course. And for those ignorantly screeching that JCP ìdoes not deserve to be a public company,î learn your basics.† For those of us schooled in turnaround and distressed investing, success in these cases is most often relative, not absolute. As of today, JCP is trading at &gt;$14.† Thatís hardly disastrous.† Historically disappointing? Sure. But the department store marketplace is changing. And weíd all do best to learn the new curvatures of the market. After all ñ American Apparelís been trading at ~$1/share for more than a year now. Sure, itís not JCP. But itís not on the LBO/private equity chopping-block, either. Perspective, it seems, is, right now, the most expensive - and valuable - †commodity when it comes to retail and turnarounds. † Margaret Bogenrief is a partner with ACM Partners, a boutique financial advisory firm providing due diligence, performance improvement, restructuring and turnaround services.† She can be reached at 312-505-0700 or at†margaret@acm-partners.com. †
The latest initial weekly jobless claims report is out, and it's a beat. Claims fell to 346k from from last week's reading of 388k (revised from 385k). Economists were expecting a reading of 360k. This was quite a relief as it comes in the wake of last weeks disappointing nonfarm payrolls and jobless claims reports. It appears that the jump in last week's jobless claims was indeed due to some seasonal factors, and at least some of that increase is being recouped now. The four-week moving average is sitting at 358k, up slightly from 355k last week.
This time, central banks have flooded the global capital markets with liquidity, which is one of the main reasons I expect that 2013 will part ways with 2007. Government bond yields in the US, Germany, France, and Japan have dropped to record or near-record lows this week following the BoJ‚Äôs pledge to double its balance sheet over the next two years. Dodgy credits have also benefitted from the global bond rally, most notably among the sovereign debts of the peripheral euro zone countries and high yield bonds. The result has been that many investors are scrambling to load up on even more stocks paying dividends. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Super Market. (1) 1665 is only 5% above yesterday‚Äôs close. (2) The trick to riding bulls. (3) Who cares about Italy and Cyprus, or Lil‚Äô Kim? (4) Technicians seeing bad stuff in their charts. (5) Don‚Äôt bet against the three richest men in the world. (6) Irrational exuberance, here we come? (7) Scrambling for dividend-yielding stocks as central banks push bond yields closer to zero. (8) Performance Derby is a mixed bag so far in April consistent with broad bull market. (9) Still keen on bull‚Äôs outperformers: Consumer Discretionary, Financials, and Industrials. (10) Not as keen on Energy and Materials. (11) IT is cheap. (More for subscribers.)
flickr / Mike KalasnikDays after Ron Johnson was ousted as CEO at JC Penney, three top executives have reportedly headed for the exits. The New York Post's James Covert reports: As first reported by The Post, Chief Operating Officer Mike Kramer, Chief Talent Officer Daniel Walker and Chief Creative Officer Mike Fisher kicked off an exodus of high-profile Johnson hires that is expected to continue in the wake of his ouster, sources said. Johnson was initially brought in to boost the department store chain's sinking sales.† However, sales plummeted as Johnson rolled out a new store concept.
AP Photo/Peter KramerGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Screengrab via YouTubeThe initial weekly unemployment claims report is one of the most reliable indicators of the economy and the financial markets. But today's report will be watched more closely than usual. Why? The last two reads on the already weak U.S labor market were pretty disappointing, suggesting there may be cracks. First was the March jobs report, which showed that U.S. companies added a measly 88k jobs during the month. Second was last week's initial claims report, which showed claims spiked to 385k.† Economists were looking for a reading of 353k. "In the past ten years excluding 2008-09, jobless claims have risen an average of 20k in the Easter week, versus a centered 7- week average rise of only 1k," wrote UBS's Kevin Cummins about last week's claims report. "This yearís rise was a bit larger. That said, after the weak employment report for March, claims will be especially important to watch for help in determining the future path of payrolls and, through payrolls, the Fed." The consensus is calling for claims to fall to 360k.† We'll cover the release live on BusinessInsider.com.
New York City's comeback has been one of the hottest housing stories.¬†  Ex-distressed properties, home prices were up 21 percent in the last three months. And overall, home prices were up an annualized 18 percent. But today we got a worrisome detail from RealtyTrac. New York saw a 200 percent year-over-year increase in foreclosure starts last month. A rise in foreclosure starts ‚Äì the pace at which mortgages enter the foreclosure process ‚Äì is cause for concern since declining inventory is one of the main factors that had helped revive home prices. New York is a judicial foreclosure state, and at 1,049 days, it has the longest foreclosure timeline in the country. This suggests that foreclosed properties will continue to trickle onto the market. Analysts and investors will be watching to see the pace at which foreclosures come through the pipeline, to gauge the impact on home prices. RealtyTrac
I‚Äôm a believer in managing expectations, but I‚Äôve found there are few better ways to undermine your potential travel enjoyment and investment success than limiting yourself with preconceived notions. ¬† That being said, I myself have fallen victim to (wrongful) assumptions or biases. When my team and I traveled to the Republic of Botswana recently, I was, to be honest, expecting dilapidated infrastructure and generally depressed conditions as can be seen in some of the Sub-Saharan African countries. The actual experience, however, was quite surprising. ¬†When we landed in the capital, Gaborone, we found that the airport was recently remodeled, with a full commitment to creating a pleasant, efficient and overall positive experience for arriving travelers. It set the tone for other pleasant surprises we found there‚Äîincluding unexpected opportunities in new industries there to further investigate. In addition to a new modern and efficient airport, we saw lots of construction of new offices and apartment buildings, good roads, and we perceived a generally bright outlook there. As one of the world‚Äôs largest diamond exporters, mining has been a key driver of Botswana‚Äôs economy. Since gaining independence in 1966, Botswana managed to transform itself from one of the world‚Äôs poorest countries to a country with one of the world‚Äôs fastest growth rates, and with that, a growing middle class. The International Monetary Fund projects Botswana‚Äôs 2013 GDP growth at 4.1%.1 With one of Africa‚Äôs more stable and progressive regimes, Botswana has a diverse global base for its exports and notwithstanding some social problems, is truly an African success story, in our view. We discovered how leaders have been diversifying the economy via tourism and initiatives such as the introduction of call and data processing centers.  The purpose of our trip was to visit a company that, on paper, looked attractive as a potential investment. The management delivered an impressive presentation, talking up their products with verve.¬†But later, in a local supermarket, I noticed the company‚Äôs goods were resigned to the farthest corners of the shop where they were difficult for customers to find.¬†This raised some red flags for us to probe more deeply into the company‚Äôs growth potential. The whole experience was a good reminder that sometimes, you have to not only see things yourself, but you have to dig beyond the surface of what others are telling you. After our first visit to Botswana, we felt the country looked to be a good place for growth and potential investment, but perhaps not so the individual company we had originally come to examine. It confirmed the reason why I travel so much: investing intuition plus first-hand observation and analysis is a powerful combination.¬† Another case in point. When I‚Äôm in a country and don‚Äôt at least once find myself in a traffic jam, it makes me suspicious about its growth potential.¬†Why? When an economy is booming, congestion often results because infrastructure can‚Äôt keep up fast enough with the growth.¬†The number of trucks on the roads can also be an important indicator of the demand for goods and services flowing in and out of a country.¬† Sometimes, when there‚Äôs too much traffic clogging up the road you need to take a different route. Following the same path as everyone else can stall your progress in reaching your investment goals too. Templeton‚Äôs founder, the late Sir John Templeton, was a proponent of not following the crowd. One of his more famous contrarian quotes is, ‚ÄúTo buy when others are despondently selling and to sell when others are avidly buying requires the greatest fortitude and pays the greatest ultimate rewards.‚Äù In the realm of behavioral finance, following the crowd is termed ‚Äúherding.‚Äù Many of us are conditioned to believe that the collective wisdom of the masses is superior to our own individual ideas, but this herd mentality can prevent us from reaching our investment goals. Sometimes, you just need to trust your own intuition. Here‚Äôs a good video on the topic I thought I‚Äôd share that illustrates in a fun way the pitfalls of following the crowd. U.S. investors can view the video here Non-U.S. investors can view the video here The lesson of all this as investors is what my team and I continually strive to do ‚Äî keep an open mind,¬† trust your intuition,¬† and try to avoid following crowds, both on the streets and in the equity markets! 1. Source: Copyright ¬© by International Monetary Fund. ‚ÄúWorld Economic Outlook‚Äù October 2012. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª
There are, it turns out, two factions within the Bitcoin (BTC) community: the "true believers" (as they are called) and the "speculators" (as the true believers call them). The speculators quietly slipped out of the room this afternoon to change their underwear as BTC's price in US dollars nosedived right before everyone's eyes. To make matters worse (or, quite possibly, the initial REASON for the panic), access to the major exchanges including Mt. Gox and BitFloor appeared to be under some form of heavy load or denial of service attack making customer access difficultóthat would spook anyone. The amount I have in BTC is insignificant, but it's these "insignificant" individual actions that when added up into the millions move markets and change our behavior. Google, for example, is not a company that makes most of its money from a handful of large institutional clients. Instead, it's the hundreds of millions of us searchingóand occasionally clicking on a relevant ad or twoóthat feed the wise beast. I don't know what motivated the speculators this week, aside from a combination of greed, boredom, and the tempting lure of easy returns. But after immersing myself in the BTC forums and community, I have a better understanding of what motivates the true believers: 1) Bitcoin is a vision of the future. It's a future where adults have control of their own money, and can send it anywhere in the world, even in the middle of the night... even on a weekend. 2) The true believers' dream is not that they are deep into the next Groupon-style money train before it pops, but rather that they are a part of a system that will enact massive global changeóand†incidentally†make all early adopters astronomically rich. As someone on Twitter summarized it to me, "The beauty for true believers is that if bitcoin becomes THE major net currency, 1 BTC is a life changing amount." Given the restricted number of BTC that will ever be in circulation, and the predicted loss of a certain number of coins over time (due to wallet file failures, forgetting encrypted private key passwords, etc), even owning one full BTC would command a staggering amount of purchasing power at some distant point in our Ridley Scott future where space mining is routine, we're all paid in universal creditsósorry, BTCóand the individual is more likely to be guided by pure capitalistic impulse rather than governmental decree. 3) Bitcoin is just the platform for what is yet to come. In other words, true believers hold that Bitcoin is not†necessarily†the killer app, it's merely the operating system. The recent media interest in BTC is sure to attract new app developers, tip widget designers, online casino companies, and even porn sites. The only thing between mass acceptance of BTC and what we have now is, well, being able to actually spend the stuff somewhere. 4) The end of credit card companies and politically connected fee-fed banks. To send a family member $10,000 in another country via PayPal would cost my recipient $200 to $399 in total fees. The same transaction over Bitcoin would cost 0.0005 BTC ($0.075 at current market price), and if my family member were to forget her Bitcoin public-facing address in the future, she could just create a new one with a single click. So that's where the true believers are coming from. I think out of all these factors, if I were to begin using Bitcoin on a daily basis, I would want to see much better app development. It's the Wild West at the momentólose your private key or find your wallet file corrupted, and you're out whatever money is in your account. I believe more consumer-friendly apps and services could be the welcome mat for the rest of us, giving a layer of comfort between ordinary user and Bitcoin's sharp, geeky edges.
Yahoo Daily Ticker Fund manager John Hussman of the Hussman Funds has been hammering on what is probably the biggest risk to future stock performance: The risk that today's record-high profit margins will fall, taking corporate earnings down with them. Those who want stocks to keep charging higher have come up with a list of many reasons why it's "different this time" and today's profit margins will keep on increasing. These include: Those points have some merit. But the idea that it really is "different this time," and that corporate profit margins will now remain at record levels forever seems, at best, dreamy. After all, this is what profit margins (blue) have done in the past: John Hussman, Hussman Funds The chart also shows what earnings growth (red, right scale) has done as profit margins have changed. Note the sudden and violent mean reversion. And note, too (though you can't see it in the chart), that, at the time, very few people saw this mean reversion coming. Anyway, John Hussman doesn't do a lot of interviews. But he is one of the smartest and most methodologically-disciplined fund managers in the world. Lauren Lyster of Yahoo caught up with him recently at a benefit. Here's (an unfortunately small) video. You can watch a bigger version here. 
In making its case yesterday to short gold, Goldman Sachs pointed out that gold ETFs were seeing significant outflows that weren't likely to abate soon. SocGen also recently cited gold ETF outflows, recently, as a big negative sign for the commodity. Of course, gold ETFs are a pretty new thing. They've enabled investors to get gold exposure directly via stocks, something that wasn't possible a decade ago. Big gold ETFs are among the biggest gold holders in the world. Just to give you some perspective, here's a chart of total holdings of all gold ETFs. You can see the incredible rise out of nowhere, and you can see that although there have been blips, the recent decline is unprecedented. Bloomberg, Business Insider
The volatility in the land of Bitcoin continues. Yesterday was a wild day, as prices climbed to over $260 at one point, before falling to the low $100s in the afternoon. It ended around $180. And that's where it was this morning, but now it's plummeted to below $150 again. Chart from Clarkmoody.com: http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/
The deterioration of economies in Europe ‚Äî especially those on the European periphery that are trying to adjust via austerity ‚Äî is just terrible. #Greece Unemployment rate in January 2013 was 27.2% compared to 21.5% in January 2012 and 25.7% in December 2012 #Greece The number of employed decreased by 270,629 persons vs Jan 2012 (-7.0%) and by 11,653 persons compared with Dec 2012 (-0.3%)
Bloomberg TVDavid Zervos is the Jefferies strategist who's been famously bullish (and right!) on stock for the past few years. He changed his tune sharply after Cyprus, saying that the deposit haircut was a horrible move, and that he was going into his "bunker." Well, Cyprus didn't have any big impact on anything, and now Zervos is jumping 'back in the risk pool' going back to his long-term investing thesis, that thanks to the positive actions of top central bankers, markets will continue to rally. ...the Cypriot bombs have been diffused and Kuroda delivered. And to be sure, the NKY and USDJPY have continued to run. But since in middle of March, the NKY is only up an additional 7 percent, and the USDJPY only up an additional 3.5 percent. In the grand scheme of a 45 to 50 percent move, this is nothing to get too excited about. The BIG moves in Japan came well before the April 4th meeting. Since then it has just been window dressing. Furthermore, the spoo has done very little since mid March, and now sits very close to its pre-Cyprus levels. My take away after being on the risk sidelines for the last 3 weeks is two-fold:¬† 1. I didn't miss much 2. Much of the recent BoJ action was already priced into the market.¬† But of course our decision to temporarily take chips of the table was a tactical trading decision. Remember I spent many years sitting in front of the screens running a levered macro portfolio. My day was dominated by 3 decisions - should I cut, add or sit. All day.....cut, add, sit, cut, add, sit.....! So you will have to forgive me if I occasionally act like a trader and not like an investor - old habits die hard. And while I was never much for model based trading rules, or systematic trading, there were always a few simple principles I followed. One of them was - "take some profits when you are up 40 percent in 4 months"!¬† So while Cyprus provided a convenient rationale to step away, we have to eventually jump back into our long term "investment" strategy. And yes, there is a big difference in long term strategic investing and short term tactical trading. In the end, we must always keep our eye on the big picture - REFLATION. To that end I am reprinting below one of my favorite big picture commentaries from Feb 26, 2013 entitled "The important stuff and the fluff". Please take the time to read it again, as it is as relevant today as it was back then. And going forward, don't be surprised by the occasional tactical trading recommendation - its only natural from a "recovering" trading addict. As for now however, the only part of cut, add, sit I will be focusing on is the "add" part. Here's to hoping for a nice sloppy dip to buy!! Good luck trading! Find more Zervos at Markit Hub ---&gt;
Flickr / sylvarHere's some great data on how interest in Bitcoin is exploding. Mt. Gox -- the most well-known Bitcoin exchange -- was very slow yesterday during yesterday's Bitcoin crash. Today it has released a statement saying that trading volume is through the roof. The most stunning fact. After adding a total of 60,000 new users to the site in March, it's now adding 20,000 each day. Here's the full announcement posted on the site: Hi everyone, just a quick update on the situation and what happened last night.† First of all we would like to reassure you but no we were not last night victim of a DDoS but instead victim of our own success!† Indeed the rather astonishing amount of new account opened in the last few days added to the existing one plus the number of trade made a huge impact on the overall system that started to lag. As expected in such situation people started to panic, started to sell Bitcoin in mass (Panic Sale) resulting in an increase of trade that ultimately froze the trade engine!† To give you an idea of how impressive things were here are some numbers that we would love to share with you guys: -The number of trades executed tripled in the last 24hrs. - The number of new account opened went from 60k for March alone to 75k new account created for the first few days of April! We now have roughly 20,000 new accounts created each day.† Due to these facts we have been busy working on improving things since last week and our team has been working around the clock to improve Mt.Gox to catch up with the demand. We will continue to release several updates today and in the coming few days to improve our system overall performance.† Also please note that we may have to close the exchange for two hours in the next 12 to 24hrs to add several new servers to our system.† Thank you for your understanding and continuous support! †† ††† † †† †† Regards Mt.Gox Co. Ltd Team.
There's been virtually no US economic data to come out so far this week, which is really a bummer since after Friday's jobs report we're desperate for insight into how the economy is doing. That changes today, as we get initial claims. Per Bill McBride, analysts expect to see 365K initial jobless claims, down from 385K last week. This is one of our favorite high-frequency datapoints, giving us a pretty nice look at the state of the economy weak to weak. Here's a chart going back to 2007. You can see the recent spike. FRED
Markets are very quiet this morning. US futures are essentially flat. Europe is not going anywhere either. Pretty much the only big mover was the same-old Japan, which gained another 2%, hitting a new 5-year high. As you can see on the Nikkei chart, stocks in Japan ended right at their highs of the session. Nikkei.com Other than that, at least there's economic data in the US today with initial claims coming out at 8:30 AM. We haven't had any real data nuggets all week.
