APThe Wall Street Journal's Sharon Ng and Jean Eaglesham have an exclusive with David Sokol that's giving us chills. Sokol was the Berkshire Hathaway subsidiary executive that many considered to be a frontrunner to replace Warren Buffett as CEO. In 2011, Sokol resigned in the wake of what appeared to be an insider trading scandal. However, the SEC dropped its investigation into Sokol yesterday, and now he has broken his silence. From Ng and Eaglesham: Mr. Buffett had praised Mr. Sokol's contributions to Berkshire upon the executive's departure and said he didn't feel the trades were "in any way unlawful." But weeks after the resignation, the Berkshire Hathaway CEO made scathing remarks about Mr. Sokol's actions, calling them "inexcusable" and "inexplicable" and saying they violated the company's code of ethics. Mr. Sokol's lawyer said Thursday that he was informed that the Securities and Exchange Commission wouldn't take action against his client. In a sign that the rift is unlikely to heal soon, Mr. Sokol on Friday lashed out at the 82-year-old Mr. Buffett. "I will never understand why Mr. Buffett chose to hurt my family in such a way, but given that he is rapidly approaching his judgement [sic] day I will leave his verdict to a higher power," Mr. Sokol wrote in an emailed response to The Wall Street Journal. Read the whole report at WSJ.com.
One of the reasons Apple's stock has gotten clobbered lately is that many people think Apple has lost its edge in its most important product line: smartphones. The iPhone has been such a mind-boggling success that it drives more than half of Apple's overall profit. And for most of the past five years, Apple has had a lock on the "best smartphone in the market." In recent years, however, competitors have caught up with the iPhone. Some reviewers think Samsung's new phone is superior to Apple's latest phone. And many people expect Samsung to leap ahead when the new Galaxy S4 comes out this spring. Another respected product reviewer, Consumer Reports, agrees with those who think Apple has lost its edge. In fact, Consumer Reports' conclusion is even more depressing for Apple fans. Consumer Reports actually rates the iPhone 5 the worst of the top smartphones. CR doesn't spell out the reasoning for its numerical ratings (yet), but the results are still startling. Below is the summary box of CR's lab tests, which appears in the February issue of the magazine. The numerical ratings are close together, but they're unequivocal. As you can see, on AT&amp;T and Sprint, the iPhone 5 is rated behind two phones: * The LG Optimus G (Android)¬† [The what?] * The Samsung Galaxy S III (Android) On Verizon, meanwhile, the iPhone 5 is rated beneath at least three smartphones: * The Motorola Droid Razr Maxx (Android, and owned by Google) * The Motorola Droid Razr HD (Android, and owned by Google) * The Samsung Galaxy S III (Android) Consumer Reports Not even ranked in the top 3 at Verizon? Ranked behind Google phones in addition to Samsung phones? That must feel like a bit of a slap in the face. Apple had better be cranking on the iPhone 6... SEE ALSO: Why Apple Stock Is Getting Clobbered
blumenbiene / FlickrThe S&amp;P 500 booked a nice 13 percent return in 2012. For 2013, Goldman Sachs' equity strategy team expects the index to hit 1,575 by year-end. However, they expect some stocks to do better than others. The firm's recently released "US Monthly Chartbook" includes a list of stocks with the most upside opportunity relative to Goldman analysts' price targets. Many of these companies highlighted are either in energy production or energy equipment. The stocks listed offer 24 to 44 percent upside relative to their current prices. We've arranged the stocks from least to most upside.
The explosive market rally following the fiscal cliff agreement was based more on what didn't happen than what did.¬† What didn't happen was the implementation of automatic tax increases and spending cuts that would have shaved about 5% off GDP and cause a recession.¬† What did happen was an agreement that would still reduce GDP by about 1.5%, an amount that still looms as significant in light of an economy that is only slogging along at a growth rate of about 2%.¬† Even more important is the potential mess that lies ahead.¬† The Treasury Department's extraordinary measures to extend the debt ceiling runs out at the end of February or the beginning of March.¬† The sequester requiring automatic across-the-board spending cuts of $110 billion for 2013 goes into effect on March 1st.¬† The federal government's spending authority for the current budget expires on March 27th. The combination of the debt limit, the sequester and the government's spending authority, all expiring within a short period promises to make the turmoil over the August 2011 debt limit fight look like a day at the beach in comparison-----and that fight led to a U.S. credit downgrade and a near default on paying federal obligations on time.¬† Already, the Republican congressional leadership has declared its intention of using the debt limit to press for significant spending cuts, even at the risk of another credit downgrade and the shutting down of the federal government.¬† Senator Pat Toomey¬† of Pennsylvania said "We Republicans need to be willing to tolerate a temporary partial government shutdown."¬† President Obama, on the other hand, has drawn a line in the sand, saying that he would not negotiate the debt limit and would not allow the issue to be continually used as a weapon to slash spending.¬† He stated that Congress has already passed the legislation authorizing the spending and should not renege on paying the bills.¬† As in August 2011, this could lead to another period of brinksmanship and uncertainty about the possibility of a U.S. default and credit downgrade combined with a government shutdown. Going into the¬†fiscal cliff negotiations, Obama had the upper hand as doing nothing would have triggered big automatic tax increases that Republicans abhorred.¬† Now, with that out of the way, the Republican leadership feels that they have a lot more leverage in the upcoming round of negotiations.¬† We therefore could be headed for an acute crisis that would dwarf anything we've seen in recent years. Not much is likely to happen immediately ahead.¬† The president's inauguration is on January 21st, with the State of the Union speech¬†following in late January or early February and the budget presentation by February 4th.¬† After that we expect things to heat up, although the stock market concern is likely to emerge long before. The market exploded to the upside following the fiscal cliff settlement based on what didn't happen.¬† However, the agreement was limited in scope and most of the hard work lies ahead.¬† We are now facing a period of severe infighting between two opposing parties, both of which believe they have the leverage to get their way.¬† We are likely facing a period of accusations, name-calling, acrimony, brinksmanship, uncertainty and threats to the credit standing of the U.S.¬† Furthermore,¬† any plan that does emerge from the controversy will necessarily include more spending cuts and tax increases and an even further hit to economic growth.¬† In this atmosphere, we think the market rally will fade within days and that a major down move is probable.
Everyone's talking about the trillion dollar coin, but how would that even work? Find out everything you need to know about the #MintTheCoin movement below: Produced by William Wei
With my indicators on a sell signal for bonds since August 16, I have been warning about bonds being overbought and in danger of rolling over into a serious correction for several months. And indeed, the 20-year U.S. Treasury bond has already lost 11% of its value just since its late July peak. Yet Treasury bonds are still significantly over-extended above the prices that prevailed most of the time before, during, and after the 2008 financial crisis, except for two previous brief spike-ups, in 2008, and 2010 (and those ended with substantial plunges back to normal). ¬†  And now another problem for bonds has popped up. As we all know, the Treasury Department, and both the Bush and Obama administrations battled the awful economic collapse of 2008 from the fiscal side, with greatly increased government spending, and massive stimulus and bail-out programs. From the monetary side, the Federal Reserve used its normal stimulus tool of cutting interest rates, and when even drastic cuts had no impact, it launched what it admitted was an untried experiment, so-called quantitative easing, in an effort to do its part in helping to lift the economy out of the worst recession in 80 years. That experiment, the Fed‚Äôs massive buying of paper assets, mostly U.S. Treasury bonds, was aimed at driving interest rates and bond yields down further - to promote borrowing and spending in the private sector to parallel the stimulative buying and spending by government. When the first such program expired with the economy still only in a tepid recovery, additional QE programs followed; dubbed QE2, ‚ÄòOperation Twist‚Äô, and QE3 (which was just announced last month). The Fed‚Äôs current balance sheet was released this week. It shows that as a result of those QE programs the Fed is now holding $1.66 trillion in U.S. Treasury bonds, and $926.7 billion in mortgage-backed securities. But it had pledged to continue the program through 2013 (or until the economy improves enough to have the unemployment rate down to 6.5%). At the current rate of purchases, that would mean the purchase of an additional $1.02 trillion of Treasury bonds this year. The need for this degree of asset purchases was not envisioned in the beginning. Yet even with the earlier totals, many economists wondered how the second half of the grand experiment would eventually be worked out. That is, how would the Fed manage to eventually reverse its efforts and sell those assets off its balance sheet without driving interest and bond yields sharply higher, bond prices sharply lower, thus hurting the economy and bond investors? It hadn‚Äôt seemed to be of immediate concern ‚Äì until the Fed released the minutes of its last FOMC meeting this week. Those minutes reveal that several FOMC committee members think that with the economic recovery showing increasing strength, the Fed will need to halt the bond purchases well before the end of 2013. That moves up the timetable of worry about how the Fed would subsequently be able to take the next step of selling off the bonds it already owns. And with that worry, another problem has risen for bonds. As I have been warning, someone is beating the Fed to the bond exit door. The selling has the 20-year bond already down 11% since July. And now the Fed‚Äôs release of its FOMC meeting minutes this week is likely to put more pressure on bond-traders and large institutional holders to bail out of bonds even faster in order to stay ahead of further selling pressure that might result from the Fed halting its supportive bond-buying earlier than previously thought. Look out below for bonds? In the interest of full disclosure, I and my subscribers have a 20% position in the ProShares Short 20-year bond etf, symbol TLT.¬† (Sy Harding was just named by Timer Digest as #1 Gold Timer for 2012 (Gold Timer of the Year), and #2 Long-Term Stock Market Timer for 2012.)
Here are slides of my updated/revised presentation on sideways markets.† Over the last three months Iíve given talks on sideways markets three times, to CFA Societies in South Florida, New Zealand, and Atlanta.† It is very hard to be excited about the US stock market.† I read that Rich Bernstein, former chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch, is very optimistic about US stocks; he believes we are at a point similar to where the market was in 1982 ñ at the beginning of the 1982-2000 secular bull.† After youíve gone through my slides, youíll understand why it is so hard for me to share Richís excitement. Stocks were so expensive in 1999 that 12 years of economic growth did not cure the excesses of overvaluation.† In fact, 12 years into this sideways market, valuations are still 30% above the historical average, while in 1982 they were about 30% percent below average!† Also, historically, stocks spent a good amount of time at below-average valuations before sideways market turned into a secular bull market. I hear that everyone is bearish, then I recall a line from a movie ñ would you rather believe me or your own eyes?† Well, my own eyes tell me that the market is up this year, so not everyone is bearish.† Higher taxes and lower government spending (which is good in the long run) are destimulating for the economy, so it is reasonable to expect slower growth going forward.† Then you look at corporate profit margins, which are at an all-time high (see my presentation).† Lower top line growth and declining corporate margins will lead to subpar earnings growth, so stocks are still expensive.† No, I donít share Richís excitement about the stock market.† All that being said, there are stocks that we are excited about, though it is becoming more and more difficult to find them. I am done with traveling for a while.† Except in early January, when I am going for a few days to NYC, for my brother-in-lawís wedding.† I am ready for the ski season! Read more posts on Contrarian Edge ª
Are there other financial options for the US government other than Congress approving a higher debt ceiling? Analyst Jaret Seiberg from the Washington Research Group has looked at two that are being discussed ‚Äî and he‚Äôs dismissive of both: The President could assert that that 14th¬†amendment negates the requirement for Congress to raise the debt ceiling. Or Treasury could mint a $1 trillion¬†platinum¬†coin and deposit it at the Federal Reserve. Neither are great options. We see chaos if the market has to confront Treasuries where the debt is backed by Congress and those where it is not backed by Congress. And the $1 trillion coin would expand the money supply by a considerable amount, which could spark serious inflation. And it seems like something out of a Simpson‚Äôs episode. So we are not even sure anyone would take this as an actual solution. All of this economic chaos could worsen the economic downturn, which would further weaken credit conditions and impose higher losses on banks. For banks, this might be as bad as an actual default. The economic uncertainty could cause lending to grind to a halt, the disruptions could cause unemployment to spike which means higher loan losses, and interest rates could skyrocket as the market is unsure whether one of these creative solutions is even legal. That sounds about right. Far better for Democrats and Republicans to agree on spending and entitlement cuts and raise the debt ceiling.
It‚Äôs been a month of high drama on the economic policy front as leaders in Washington grappled with the fiscal cliff. But out in the real world, not many people seemed to care as the economy did just fine. Non-farm employment advanced 155,000, or 0.1%, in December from November, the federal government reported today. That was right on expectations, as was the unemployment rate, which remained at 7.8%, unchanged from November. (The November figure was revised from 7.7% as Bureau of Labour Statistics conducted its annual revamp of seasonal factors.) Job growth was also better than the trend of 130,500 for the year. There were no obvious black marks in the report. November payroll growth was revised up to 161,000 from 146,000. Within December‚Äôs numbers, total private payrolls rose 168,000 as government returned to its familiar role as a drag on overall hiring. Construction and manufacturing both posted solid gains, encouraging signs for two sectors which customarily set the trend for the overall economy. Retail trade did slump 11,300, which will be taken as a sign of a flagging consumer, especially since retailers reported disappointing holiday sales. But that drop followed two months of robust gains. Average weekly hours rose to 34.5 from 34.4, and wage growth has also picked up. Hourly earnings were up 0.3% on the month and 2.1% on the year. The household survey showed employment growth of just 28,000. The household and payroll surveys often diverge, and that gap is not especially large. The labour force did grow enough to keep the participation rate (the share of the population working or looking for work) unchanged at a still depressed 63.6%. Including discouraged workers and involuntary part-timers, the broader measure of underemployment was unchanged at 14.4%. Employment ended the year up 1.4%, exactly the same rate of growth recorded over 2011. That's not much to shout about - it's roughly consistent with an economy at full employment growing at trend, not one with still plenty of slack. But it's pretty good considering the uncertainty that bombarded businesses and households that month. Nor is the report the only sign of an economy holding up remarkably well. Automobile sales rose 19% in December from November‚Äôs hurricane-depressed level, finishing the year on a high note at a 15.4m annualised rate. For the year, sales rose 13% to 14.5m, the most since 2007. Unemployment claims have dropped back to the level that prevailed before Hurricane Sandy hit the northeast at the end of October, and according to some analysts actually show signs of strengthening labour demand. That all this happened while a boiling point approached in wrangling over the fiscal cliff, the combination of tax increases and spending cuts scheduled for the start of 2013, speaks to how the private sector has discounted the perpetual dysfunction that passes for American governance. As I‚Äôve argued elsewhere, fiscal brinkmanship has become as routine in Washington as bullets and bombings were in Beiruit during its civil war. Markets and business have learned to adjust, as the people of Beirut did. Of course, if politicians actually go over the brink this time instead of just threatening to, then the market reaction will be quite violent and the economy will take a beating. But I think there‚Äôs probably too much focus on what might happen between now and March (when the sequester, debt ceiling, and federal budget funding must be addressed) and what is almost certain to happen, given the tax bill that Barack Obama signed into law this week. BofA/Merrill Lynch reckons expiration of the payroll tax cut subtracts $120 billion from household purchasing power and increased taxes on the rich take another $60 billion. Then there‚Äôs several forgotten items such as the spending caps agreed to as part of the debt ceiling deal in 2011, and expiring stimulus. That‚Äôs a total of $285 billion, or about 1.8% of GDP (see nearby table). If the automatic cuts to federal spending (‚Äúsequester‚Äù), which the tax deal delayed until March, do occur, the hit rises to 2.1% of GDP, and most of that will be felt in the first half of the year. Since not many 2013 paychecks have even gone out yet, we won‚Äôt know for a while what the economic impact of this new austerity will be. It may not be that severe if the underlying momentum in the economy is strong enough. There‚Äôs decent evidence of just that. There‚Äôs plenty of fear on both Wall Street and in Washington that fiscal wrangling over the cliff will ensure continued stock market volatility and business sentiment for the next few months. I‚Äôm not so sure. What does this picture mean for the Fed? The minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee, released on January 3rd, suggest Fed officials remain concerned that fiscal austerity will keep the economy on the backfoot this year and still in need of plenty of stimulus. The Fed is currently buying $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage backed bonds per month by printing money (quantitative easing, or QE). What caught investors‚Äô attention, however, was the revelation that ‚ÄúSeveral‚Äù voting FOMC members ‚Äúthought that it would probably be appropriate to slow or to stop purchases well before the end of 2013.‚Äù Going deeper into the minutes, this sentiment appears more widespread once non-voting members are included. Leaving aside members who wanted to stop QE right away, the remainder ‚Äúwere approximately evenly divided between those who judged that it would likely be appropriate for the Committee to complete its asset purchases sometime around the middle of 2013 and those who judged that it would likely be appropriate for the asset purchases to continue beyond that date.‚Äù It seems reasonable to assume, then, that the median member wants to stop between the middle and end of 2013. Ben Bernanke, the chairman, is probably toward the end of that range. By contrast, the median primary dealer surveyed by the New York Fed had thought it would stop in the first quarter of 2014. It‚Äôs important to keep in mind that the median dealer also thought GDP would only grow 2.1% in 2013 (fourth quarter to fourth quarter) whereas FOMC members thought it would grow 2.3% to 3%, a forecast that seems strangely upbeat given their own, and the Fed staff‚Äôs, concern about fiscal drag. If the Fed is, once again, too optimistic, the case for further stimulus will remain relatively firm into 2013. Yet there is a less benign scenario as well: that growth remains disappointing, but QE stops, anyway. Fed officials have always made it clear that the benefits of more QE had to exceed the costs for it to continue, and it‚Äôs possible that by the end of 2013, the median Fed member will be worried enough about the costs of excessively low interest rates, Fed ownership of a growing share of the bond market, and the size of its balance sheet to call a halt to QE, even if an economic case for more remains. With fiscal policy now turning decisively contractionary, America had better hope the animal spirits of business have revived enough for growth to continue without the help of policy makers. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
AP/J. Scott ApplewhiteOne of the most common reactions to my claim that the $1 trillion dollar platinum coin solution to debt ceiling is an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power to the Treasury Department is to argue out that if I were right then the entire Federal Reserve would be illegal too. It certainly would demonstrate that my interpretation is far out of line with anything likely to be adopted by the federal courts if my position entailed ruling the Fed unconstitutional. Fortunately for me, it's easy to distinguish between the way the law delegates monetary powers to the Federal Reserve and the way it delegates the platinum coin authority to the Treasury. The relevant test here is whether or not the Congressional delegation of authority is accompanied by an "intelligible principle" by which the agency can guide its decision-making. The Federal Reserve Act, which establishes and empowers the Fed, is a long bill full of instructions from Congress about what the Fed may and may not do. (In fact, the Fed's powers were changed recently, under the Dodd-Frank Act.) Most importantly, the Act directs the Fed to implement monetary policy to meet some very specific goals. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Open Market Committee shall maintain long run growth of the monetary and credit aggregates commensurate with the economy's long run potential to increase production, so as to promote effectively the goals of maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates. That's an extremely explicit "intelligible principle." The Fed cannot make policy willy-nilly.It must conform its policy to increase production while promoting maximum employment, stable prices and moderate long-term interest rates. The Fed has a lot of latitude when it comes to how best to pursue those goals but the goals are very clear. The statute authorizing the Treasury Secretary to mint platinum coins is very different. Here's what the relevant section says: The Secretary may mint and issue bullion and proof platinum coins in accordance with such specifications, designs, varieties, quantities,denominations, and inscriptions as the Secretary, in the Secretary's discretion, may prescribe from time to time. There's no intelligible principle here at all. Nothing to guide the Secretary of the Treasury about how to exercise this authority, no goal at which his discretionary decisions are aimed. This is just too broad to fit into our constitutional framework.
APThe New York Fed‚Äôs primary dealers, the 21 banks with which it carries out transactions, expect quantitative easing to continue until 1Q 2014. This is according to a Dow Jones Business News report. The primary dealers‚Äô median expectation is that the Fed will continue to purchase $45 billion worth of Treasuries each month throughout 2013, and cut that to $35 billion per month in early 2014. These findings come from a survey of primary dealers that was conducted before the December FOMC meeting.¬† The recently released minutes of the December FOMC meeting revealed that several Fed governors were taking a more hawkish stance in regards to the bond-buying program. The fact that the survey occured before the FOMC meeting is what makes the results surprising. It ‚Äúhints at the fact that dealers were already expecting a slowdown in the Fed‚Äôs purchasing efforts around the end of 2013.‚Äù Thr FOMC minutes indicated that ‚Äúa few members expressed the view that ongoing asset purchases would likely be warranted until about the end of 2013‚Äù while ‚ÄúSeveral others thought that it would probably be appropriate to slow or stop purchases well before the end of 2013.‚Äù Markets appeared to be blindsided by this development and gains on the day were erased after that news from the Fed. Regardless, at least one economist thinks that we're making too much of all of this: Fears of early Fed QE phase-out are way exaggerated. Fed minutes noises are most likely another Fed fake... expect QE thru all of 2013
Turkey has had a great economic run over the last several years, and it's government really wants to keep it going. Perhaps that's why, as Bloomberg reports, the legislators passed a new law making certain types of commentary on markets a criminal offense punishable with five years in prison. As a result of this measure, SocGen has ordered its employees to stop commenting on the country all together, and Bank of America and Commerzbank AG are figuring out how the law will affect their business. From Bloomberg: Turkey‚Äôs Capital Markets Law enacted on Dec. 31 stipulates punishment for ‚Äúthose who provide untruthful, wrong or misleading information, start rumors, or provide news, commentary, or prepare reports with the intention of influencing prices, values of capital markets instruments or investor decisions.‚Äù... ‚ÄúI am quite surprised by the contents of the section on market commentary as the authorities have proven to be proactive in promoting an investor-friendly environment in the past,‚Äù Benoit Anne, head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale in London, said by e-mail today. The bank is seeking legal advice and won‚Äôt comment on Turkish markets until further notice, he said. The country's Capital Markets Board had no comment for Bloomberg. However, the report points out that freedom of speech has taken a serious beating in Turkey according to advocacy group, The Committee To Protect Journalists. In an October report on Turkey it pointed out that the country has more journalists in jail than any other country and that President Racep Tayyip Erdogan has overseen ‚Äúone of the biggest crackdowns on press freedom in recent history.‚Äù
Flickr - art_youToday's jobs report wasn't as exciting as it could've been.† However, the modest up-move in stocks today sent the S&amp;P 500 to its highest level since December 2007. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,435, +43.8, +0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,466, +7.1, +0.4 percentNASDAQ: 3,101, +1.0, +0.0 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
The S&amp;P 500 is above its highest closing level since December 2007, reports Bloomberg.¬† Here's a five-year chart. Bloomberg, Business Insider
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. PETER SCHIFF: There's Another Fiscal Cliff That Won't Be So Easy To Avoid (Advisor Perspectives) "It cannot, or should not, be denied that Washington's latest fig leaf will have a major impact on the markets. The New Year's "relief rally" is understandable given the clear implications that the government will simply print its way out of trouble for as long as it can. ÖMarkets are now driven by stimulus, not fundamentals, and the stimulus is firmly at the wheel.† In the meantime, President Obama and Congressional leaders will take credit for a tax cut that is in reality a huge tax increase in disguise. Government spending is the real source of taxpayers' pain and it is only a matter of time before the bill comes due in the form of inflation. See our Newsletter for fresh analysis as to why inflation may already be higher than you think.† Because the deficits will grow even larger, more purchasing power will be lost in this manner than would have been lost had all the Bush tax cuts been allowed to expire. In addition, though entitlements cuts were taken off the table, the real value of benefits could be slashed, as cost of living adjustments fail to keep up with skyrocketing consumer prices.† That's a Fiscal Cliff that will not be so easy to avoid." Almost All Of Wall Street Got The 2012 Market Calls Wrong (Bloomberg) A new report from Bloomberg says most of Wall Street got their 2012 market predictions wrong. Among them, John Paulson's call that the euro would fall apart, Morgan Stanley's prediction that the S&amp;P 500 would lose 7 percent, and Goldman Sachs' bullish call on Chinese equities. GARTMAN: The Gold Bug Thesis Is In Tatters (Business Insider) After yesterday's FOMC minutes revealed that several members of the Fed wanted to end QE3 by 2013, Dennis Gartman, publisher of The Gartman Letter wrote that gold bugs were seeing their thesis in tatters. "Commodity prices are falling and in some instances are falling quite sharply. Clearly that is the case with gold, for the minutes of the FOMCís last meeting have shaken the hopes of the most violent ìGold Bugsî malevolently, and have shaken our gold position rather materially. We are, however, rather nicely insulated from the real damage being done to the simplistic gold bugs who have owned and who still own gold predicated upon their thesis that the Fed has lost control of the money supply. That thesis is now in tatters... or at least has been very badly torn in the past twenty four hours... following the single sentence from the Fedís minutes noted at length above. ÖThe game has changed for gold if we are to believe the minutes of the FOMC meeting, and at the moment weíve no choice but to believe them. The only hope for the gold/US$ bulls is that the newly constituted FOMC shall be more dovish than was the FOMC as constituted last year. That case can be made, but only at the margin. We shall accept the FOMC of í13 as more dovish than was that of í12, but only marginally so; not materially so." The Scariest Jobs Chart Ever (Calculated Risk) The jobs report this morning showed that the U.S. economy added 155,000 jobs and the unemployment rate ticked higher to 7.8 percent. Bill McBride at Calculated Risk wrote "This shows the depth of the recent employment recession - worse than any other post-war recession - and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis." www.calculatedriskblog.com Small Transgressions Can Cost Brokers Big (The Wall Street Journal)  Recent disciplinary actions against brokers have shown that even tiny infractions and false reimbursement requests can cost them their jobs and bar them from the industry. Two such cases involve Hartford Life Distributors LLC. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Jim O'Neill Thinks The Post-2008 'Risk On/Risk Off' Trade Is Finally Reversing (Viewpoints) "There are a number of growing hints that the post-2008 environment of ìrisk on/risk offî with very strong cross-asset-class correlations is reversing. If this were true, it should be really good for specific investors who can concentrate on their asset class and not worry so much about extraneous forces. I had already touched on this a number of times during 2012, not least because smart investors should try to anticipate these trends reversing before the masses. But now, the evidence is accumulating. It is at its most apparent in the foreign exchange market, with the dramatic decline of the Yen since mid- November, which is clearly a function of the incoming LDP leader Abe planning for a more activist set of policies. Many sell-side commentators are still focused on the two-year US-Japan interest rate differential in following the Yen, which worked so well since 2008, but ñ at least for now ñ has clearly broken down. I would remind people that over a longer period ñ in fact, since the early days of floating ñ there is very little statistical evidence that US-Japanese interest rate differentials are that crucial for USD/JPY."
Shares in embattled grocer Supervalu are soaring after Dow Jones' Sharon Terlep reports¬†Cerberus Capital Management is in talks to buy the grocer (via Chicago Tribune's Ben Estes). The stock is up nearly +16 percent ‚Äî after being literally the worst-performing major stock of 2012. The deal would see Cerberus buy some parts of the chain outright and take a stake in the remainder, Terlep writes. The PE firm would contribute around $500 million in equity. Supervalu shares have collapsed nearly 100 percent since their June 2007 highs thanks to competition from Walmart and Kroger. Ironically, the chain has also occupied a close-to-perennial spot on our most-shorted-stocks list. Looks like that move will not pay off. ¬† Here's the chart:
Bloomberg's Betty Liu reports that every tech job created in 2011 spurred 4.3 additional new hires. This massive multiplier effect for high tech jobs has been a boon during the continued U.S. economic recovery. Lawyers, dentists, and school teachers see increased job opportunities in the wake of high tech hiring, according to Liu. ¬†¬† Ian Hathaway, Bay Area¬† Council Economist, explains the two reasons behind this multiplier effect: ‚ÄúHigh tech workers earn high salaries and therefore have higher levels of disposable income which can be spent throughout the local economy; and secondly, because high tech firms tend to cluster around one another, it draws in businesses that support high tech in their normal business operations.‚Äú Hathaway added that he expects job growth in the high tech sector to outpace national job growth until at least 2020. Watch the full video below, from Bloomberg TV:
YouTube via RTVEcuadorYesterday, we filled you in on the massive scandal in Ecuador, in which former Central Bank President Pedro Delgado admitted to falsifying his qualifications to get into graduate school. Delgado fled to the United States, and has since had his visa revoked. As incredible as it seems, the story has taken an even more bizarre and embarrassing twist. Though there have been no Delgado sightings in Miami, his last known location, Radio Sucre reports that he released a statement today through his lawyer, Juan Carlos Carmigniani. In the statement, Delgado insists that he will not be returning to Ecuador. He claims to be a persecuted 'political refugee' and is seeking a safe haven. He did not indicate any basis for his standing as a 'political refugee' ñ as opposed to any other alleged criminal on the run from the law. If Delgado returns to Ecuador, he faces charges that could carry a prison sentence between nine and 12 years.
St. Louis FedThursday's release of the FOMC minutes from the Federal Reserve's December monetary policy meeting threw markets for a loop. The minutes revealed that several members of the Committee favored halting the Fed's bond buying program ‚Äì quantitative easing ‚Äì by the end of this year, given current trends in U.S. economic data. The revelation about quantitative easing is not inconsistent with the Fed's public commitment in December to maintain ultra-low interest rates at least until the unemployment rate hits 6.5 percent. However, it gave the impression that the tone within the Federal Reserve is decidedly more hawkish than its recent policy announcement tying the interest rate outlook to unemployment thresholds would suggest. St. Louis Fed President James Bullard was on CNBC Friday afternoon discussing the Fed's stance on quantitative easing as detailed in the minutes. CNBC reporter Steve Liesman asked Bullard, given the suggestion that the FOMC could end bond purchases by the end of 2013, when exactly markets could expect such a thing. Bullard told Liesman: I think unemployment will continue to tick down through 2013. If you look at the last three years ‚Äì about seven-tenths per year on the unemployment rate ‚Äì¬†if we got that this year, we'd be down at 7.1 percent by the end of the year, something like that. That would probably be substantial improvement, and the Committee could think about removing accommodation on the balance sheet side of the policy at that point. Liesman asked for clarification, and Bullard continued: If you got down close to 7 percent, then you're within a half a point of your 6.5 percent on the interest rate side, and I think clearly the intention is to pull back balance sheet policy sometime before you would start thinking about raising the rate. Again, this isn't inconsistent with what was said in the minutes, but it offers a big clue as to when the Fed might decide to pull back from its bond-buying efforts, and defines a bit more clearly what was revealed in the minutes released Thursday.
CNBCs Rick Santelli is known for his explosions, but today's scream-fest over a discussion with Kelly Evans, Steve Liesman and three very patient guests was over the top, even for him. Evans was talking about some thoughts a U.K. investor overseas shared with her on the risk of the U.S. having yet another fiscal cliff battle. The investor said he saw the economy recovering and was expecting bond yields to move higher, "aside from an insane technical default brought on by lunatic Republicans." "That's the worry here," Evans continued. "Will we have a self inflicted wound ‚Äî a gunshot to the head." And Santelli was off. "What about the lunatics that spend 16.4 trillion and want another check," he screamed. "Aren't they the crazies, Kelly?" The next minute or so is a stressful attempt by Evans to get the show back on the road as Santelli interrupts over and over again. The most painful moment comes at the end when Santelli goes into total rage mode, flailing his arms and saying, "You gotta be a man when you look at the debt. If it means uncomfortability, if it means going over the cliff, if it means the government closing, my kids will thank me someday for it." To which one tired guest replied, "I doubt it." "I'd like to see if you run your personal finances that way," Santelli countered. That's when there was basically a collective sigh from the group as Liesman and a guest tried to explain that personal finances and government finances are not the same. Watch the video below if you can stomach it: 
This is the Tricker's Valet Kit from British clothing store End. Why We Love It: You've got your wingtips, your loafers, your lace-ups, and your oxfords. But half the battle with men's formal shoes is keeping your leather shining and your shoes clean. For that, you need a valet kit. Tricker's has been hand-making bespoke footwear since 1829 in England, so they know a thing or two about men's shoes. The kit comes with four tins of polish, five jars of leather cream, a metal shoe horn, a buffing cloth, and a total of eight brushes for your collection. The polishes and creams are all high-grade, and come in a range of colors from neutral to jet black. The handsome black case measures 7.75'' x 14.5'' x 6''. End † End Where To Buy: Through U.K.-based store End. Cost: £350, or roughly $570. End does offer a 20% discount for non-EU customers, and price does not include shipping. Want to nominate a cool product for†Stuff We Love? Send an email to Megan Willett at†mwillett@businessinsider.com†with "Stuff We Love" in the subject line.
Goldman SachsJim O'NeillEarlier this morning, SocGen's currency guru Kit Juckes wrote that he believes that the "risk on/risk off" trade would come to an end this year. "Risk on/risk off" is when risky financial asset classes move in unison based on market-moving news.† In other words, correlations across asset classes are high, a phenomenon that occurs when volatility and uncertainty are high. Like Juckes, Goldman's Jim O'Neill comes to a similar conclusion based on observations he has made in the currency markets.† From his latest Viewpoints note: Changing Correlations?There are a number of growing hints that the post-2008 environment of ìrisk on/risk offî with very strong cross-asset-class correlations is reversing. If this were true, it should be really good for specific investors who can concentrate on their asset class and not worry so much about extraneous forces. I had already touched on this a number of times during 2012, not least because smart investors should try to anticipate these trends reversing before the masses. But now, the evidence is accumulating. It is at its most apparent in the foreign exchange market, with the dramatic decline of the Yen since mid- November, which is clearly a function of the incoming LDP leader Abe planning for a more activist set of policies. Many sell-side commentators are still focused on the two-year US-Japan interest rate differential in following the Yen, which worked so well since 2008, but ñ at least for now ñ has clearly broken down. I would remind people that over a longer period ñ in fact, since the early days of floating ñ there is very little statistical evidence that US-Japanese interest rate differentials are that crucial for USD/JPY. Since the start of 2013 ñ and this is potentially dangerous to conclude as permanent ñ the Euro has declined, despite a strong rally in asset markets, including a continued powerful rally in peripheral European bonds. Then there is the ongoing softness of the Gold price that I talked about in my Viewpoint from 21st December, which the bulls will simply pass off as year-end positioning squaring and noise. However, if ñ as I shall discuss now ñ it is part of a re-emergence of equities and the end of the bond obsession, then this could be curtains for Gold. Here's a chart from JP Morgan that shows the long history of correlations in the stock markets and the periods of volatility during which they occurred. 
de.wikipedia.orgWegelin &amp; Co., founded in 1741 as the oldest Swiss bank, will close its doors forever after admitting to helping wealthy Americans commit illegal tax evasion. Though this bank has no branches outside of Switzerland, the U.S. government has been instrumental in facilitating its demise. Thatís because from 2002 to around 2010, Wegelin harbored at least $1.2 billion that would have otherwise been owed to the IRS. Otto Bruderer, a managing partner at Wegelin, admitted in court that the bank ìwas aware that this conduct was wrong.î As part of the guilty plea, the settlement calls for Wegelin to pay approximately $36 million to the IRS as well as a $22 million fine. Thing is, that nearly $60 million scheduled to be paid in fines and restitution pales in comparison to the bank's hoardings of $1.2 billion over the eight-year period. And these penalties have to be approved by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff ñ and thatís far from a sure bet. Heís shown his willingness to reject settlements that let bankers off with a slap on the wrist ñ a financial fine but no admittance of guilt. And he wonít allow this issue to be settled in a manner he perceives to be ìunfair, unreasonable, inadequate, or in contravention of the public interest.î A sentencing hearing will take place on March 4.
Wikimedia CommonsCars have these things called catalytic converters. Twenty years ago, they were made of platinum. But since 1995 auto manufacturers have been shifting to palladium, mostly because it's cheaper. And with auto sales on the rise, demand for palladium is robust. On the supply side, there are two countries that supply most of the palladium to the rest of the world: Russia and South Africa. Which means supply disruptions can have a major impact on palladium prices. According to a report written by Alex Bryan, an ETF specialist at Morningstar, "In combination with supply-side constraints, a rebound in global auto production and the substitution of palladium for platinum in the light diesel market may increase demand and put upward pressure on palladium prices." He also wrote that it is unlikely that demand for the metal will fade: "In the United States, pent-up demand for new vehicles is fueling strong sales growth. Our equity analysts see this growth continuing into 2013. Despite a recent surge in inventory, this should lead to an increase in production, which would likely increase demand for palladium." And that supply might falter: "Russia boasts the richest deposits of palladium in the world. It supplied nearly half the market in 2011. However, according to Johnson Matthey PLC, the quality of available Russian palladium ore is declining, which may increase the cost of production and reduce the amount the country can supply in the future...Growing stocks in Zimbabwe, and a return to normal production conditions in South Africa, may partially offset a potential decline in supply from Russia." Right now the only way to get exposure to palladium prices are ETFS Physical Palladium Shares (PALL), which means you'd own actual physical palladium bullion stored in vaults in London and Zurich.
That accolade goes to none other than Steve Cohen's SAC Capital. The $14 billion firm raked in $789.5 million for its managers, but it only ranks at #89 in on the list of 100 Most Successful Hedge Funds in 2012 having posted returns of a little over 10%. Still, that's not terrible in a year when the hedge fund industry's average return is resting at 1.3%. So Cohen hasn't had a bad year, SEC investigations aside.
Paulson, who manages $19 billion in hedge funds, said the euro would fall apart and bet against the region‚Äôs debt. Morgan Stanley predicted the Standard &amp; Poor‚Äôs 500 Index would lose 7 percent and Credit Suisse Group AG foresaw wider swings in equity prices. All of them proved wrong last year and investors would have done better listening to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, who said the real risk was being too pessimistic. The ill-timed advice shows that even the largest banks and most-successful investors failed to anticipate how government actions would influence markets. Unprecedented central bank stimulus in the U.S. and Europe sparked a 16 percent gain in the S&amp;P 500 including dividends, led to a 23 percent drop in the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, paid investors in Greek debt 78 percent and gave Treasuries a 2.2 percent return even after Warren Buffett called bonds ‚Äúdangerous.‚Äù ‚ÄúThey paid too much attention to the fear du jour,‚Äù Jeffrey Saut, who helps oversee about $350 billion as the chief investment strategist at Raymond James &amp; Associates in St. Petersburg, Florida, said by phone on Jan. 2. ‚ÄúThey were worrying about a dysfunctional government in the U.S. They were worried about the euro quake and the implosion of Greece and Portugal. Instead of looking at what‚Äôs going on around them, they were letting these macro events cause fear to creep into the equation.‚Äù Trailing Markets The market value of global equities increased by about $6.5 trillion last year as the MSCI All-Country World Index returned 17 percent including dividends. The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Sovereign Plus Index of government debt returned 4.5 percent. The MSCI gauge of stocks in developed and emerging markets fell 0.2 percent to 345.89 at 9:51 a.m. in London today. While Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show Treasuries of all maturities returned an average of 2.2 percent last year, including reinvested interest, an investor who bought what was then the benchmark 10-year note ‚Äî the 2 percent security due in November 2021 ‚Äî would have gained 4.01 percent after taxes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Blankfein Positive Money managers who aim to beat markets lagged behind instead. The Bloomberg Global Aggregate Hedge Fund Index, which tracks average performance in the $2.19 trillion industry, increased 1.6 percent last year through November. More than 65 percent of mutual funds benchmarked to the S&amp;P 500 trailed the gauge in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 50 stocks in the S&amp;P 500 with the lowest analyst ratings at the end of 2011 posted an average return of 23 percent, outperforming the index by 7 percentage points, the data show. Blankfein was more prescient. ‚ÄúI tend to be a little more positive than what I‚Äôm hearing from other people,‚Äù the 58-year- old CEO told Bloomberg Television in an April 25 interview at Goldman Sachs‚Äôs New York headquarters. ‚ÄúOne of the big risks that people have to contemplate is that things go right.‚Äù While markets moved against forecasters last year, their predictions may eventually prove correct. Rising Yields Ten-year Treasury yields have climbed 0.52 percentage point from a July low to 1.91 percent, while the so-called VIX index of volatility is up 8.3 percent from last year‚Äôs nadir. Greece‚Äôs economy will contract 4 percent this year, the International Monetary Fund predicted in October, as euro membership prevents the country from boosting exports with a weaker currency. Paulson, the founder of New York-based Paulson &amp; Co., told clients in April he was wagering against European sovereign bonds and buying credit-default swaps on the region‚Äôs debt. The contracts insure against default and increase in value when investor perceptions of the borrower‚Äôs creditworthiness decline. Citigroup Inc. economists led by Willem Buiter in London said in February the possibility Greece would leave the euro within 18 months had increased to 50 percent from between 25 to 30 percent. They raised the risk to 75 percent in May and by July were citing a 90 percent chance of departure, writing in a report that their ‚Äúassumption‚Äù was an exit by Jan. 1. Greek Rally Greek bonds surged the most worldwide and the country stayed in the euro as the European Central Bank pledged a bigger rescue effort, German Chancellor Angela Merkel softened her stance on aid and Prime Minister Antonis Samaras delivered on austerity commitments in Athens. Money managers who bet against the conviction of European leaders to hold together the 17-nation currency union missed out on some of the best investment opportunities as the euro strengthened about 9.4 percent from a July 24 low against the dollar, Germany‚Äôs DAX Index of shares returned 29 percent for the year and credit-default swaps on Portugal dropped 644 basis points to 449. ‚ÄúThere really is only one ‚Äòworst trade‚Äô and that is the ‚Äòeuro crisis‚Äô trade,‚Äù Michael Shaoul, the chairman and chief executive officer of Marketfield Asset Management LLC in New York, which oversees about $4.4 billion, said in a Dec. 31 e- mail. Armel Leslie, a spokesman for Paulson &amp; Co., declined to comment. Buiter wasn‚Äôt available to comment, Devonne Spence, a spokeswoman at Citigroup in London, said on Jan. 2. Fed Stimulus Adam Parker, the U.S. equity strategist at New York-based Morgan Stanley, predicted the S&amp;P 500 would fall 7.2 percent to 1,167 last year as the U.S. presidential election, slower growth in China and Europe‚Äôs debt crisis deterred investors. Stocks rose as Federal Reserve decisions to keep benchmark interest rates at record lows while buying more than $80 billion a month of mortgages and Treasuries boosted confidence in the economy. The average forecast of 12 strategists tracked by Bloomberg called for the S&amp;P 500 to increase about 7 percent last year to 1,344. It reached 1,426.19, surpassing the year-end prediction by the most since 2003, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Parker said he underestimated the impact of central bank stimulus and investors‚Äô willingness to pay more for stocks. The S&amp;P 500 is valued at 13 times estimated earnings, about 8 percent more expensive than it was a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mea Culpa ‚ÄúWe were wrong on our year-end outlook for 2012 mostly because of our view on the multiple,‚Äù Parker wrote in a report on Oct. 22. ‚ÄúThe specter of nearly unlimited intervention from the ECB and the Fed seems to have created a more positive asymmetry than we anticipated.‚Äù Buffett, the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and the world‚Äôs fourth-richest person in the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, wrote in a February letter to shareholders that inflation and low yields make fixed-income securities less attractive than stocks or buying whole companies over time. While U.S. inflation of about 2 percent last year left Treasuries with almost zero real return, U.S. company bonds outpaced the increase in consumer prices with a gain of 11 percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate &amp; High Yield Index. Buffett didn‚Äôt respond to a request for comment sent to an assistant. Easing concern about a breakup of the euro helped reduce equity volatility, defying the Jan. 12 prediction by Credit Suisse‚Äôs Andrew Garthwaite that price swings would increase. ‚ÄòSignificant Surprise‚Äô The MSCI All-Country index‚Äôs 30-day historical volatility dropped to a six-year low of 6.7 on Dec. 28. The VIX, a gauge of projected market swings derived from options on the S&amp;P 500, fell to 18.02 from 23.4 at the end of 2011, the biggest annual drop since 2009. Bank of America Merrill Lynch‚Äôs MOVE Index, a gauge of Treasury volatility, retreated 35 percent last year. The cost of options on developed-nation currencies declined 34 percent, the biggest annual slump since at least 1993, according to JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a significant surprise why implied volatility in the foreign exchange market, bond market and equities market is all far, far lower than anyone expected,‚Äù Garthwaite, the London- based global equity strategist at Credit Suisse, said by phone on Jan. 2. ‚ÄúUltimately, we have to put it down to central bank action.‚Äù French bonds rallied even as S&amp;P and Moody‚Äôs Investors Service Inc. removed the country‚Äôs top credit rating. France‚Äôs sovereign debt returned 10 percent last year, more than double the rest of the global government bond market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. China Optimism The gains echoed the previous year, when investors considered the U.S. more creditworthy after S&amp;P removed the nation‚Äôs AAA grade and drove 10-year note yields to a record low in 2012. Goldman Sachs‚Äôs call on Chinese equities proved too optimistic. Helen Zhu, the New York-based bank‚Äôs China strategist, said in a Jan. 11 interview on Bloomberg Television that the CSI 300 Index would probably climb 36 percent to 3,200 by year-end. Instead, the gauge of shares traded in Shanghai and Shenzhen peaked at 2,717.82 and ended the year up 7.6 percent at 2,522.95. ‚ÄúChina‚Äôs A-share market has seen substantially more valuation de-rating relative to other markets since 2010, larger than we and many others had expected,‚Äù Zhu said in a Dec. 28 interview. ‚ÄúIntensifying concerns about structural risks in the economy have resulted in significant volatility in a market which tends to be more sentiment driven.‚Äù Predicting Politics Zhu, who‚Äôs estimating a CSI 300 index gain of about 9 percent for 2013, wasn‚Äôt the only forecaster who proved too bullish last year as government efforts to cool home prices and contain inflation limited equity returns. About 3,000 recommendations compiled by Bloomberg show analysts overestimated gains for CSI 300 shares by 33 percentage points, the second-most among 45 markets after Russia. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs always more challenging for investors to try and predict political actions,‚Äù Khiem Do, the head of Asian multi- asset strategy at Baring Asset Management, which oversees about $50 billion worldwide, said in a Jan. 2 phone interview from Hong Kong. ‚ÄúIn general they‚Äôre trained to analyze the economic data, balance sheets and so on. They‚Äôre not trained to predict political decisions. These factors have ruled the lives of fund managers in a more significant manner than what used to be over the past 20 or 30 years.‚Äù 
GettyIn addition to being the DreamWorks Animation Chair, Mellody Hobson also manages $3 billion in assets as the head of Ariel Mutual Funds.After seven years of dating, "Star Wars" creator George Lucas finally popped the question over the holidays to his long-time girlfriend, DreamWorks animation chairman, Mellody Hobson.†† It will be the first marriage for Hobson, 43, and the second for Lucas, 68, who was previously married to film editor Marcia Lou Griffin and has three adopted children. The couple first met during a business conference in Aspen in 2006, and have been dating long distance (he in California, she in Chicago) ever since. "In addition to her†gig with DreamWorks, Hobson also heads Chicago-based investment management firm Ariel Investments Llc. and is chairman of Ariel Mutual Funds," according to The Hollywood Reporter. "Ariel reportedly is among the largest African-American-owned money management and mutual fund companies in the U.S." A Chicago native, Hobson graduated from Princeton University in 1991 and soon after joined Ariel as an intern, where she later became president in 2000. In addition to managing†more than a reported $3 billion in assets, Hobson also†regularly contributes commentary on financial issues on ABCís "Good Morning America" and†hosted a 2009 show on ABC called "Unbroke: What You Need to Know About Money." Hobson replaced former Dreamworks Animation Chairman Robert Enrico in October after the former Pepsi CEO mysteriously left the company for no apparent reason. While Hobson is keeping busy, Lucas, meanwhile, will have more time to spend with his bride-to-be in 2013 as the filmmaker sold his Lucasfilm production company to Disney in October for a whopping $4.05 billion†ó most of which he donated to educational philanthropy. ìAs I start a new chapter in my life, it is gratifying that I have the opportunity to devote more time and resources to philanthropy,î Lucas said at the time. During a joint interview on OWN last year, Hobson told Oprah Winfrey of her relationship with the famed director: "I think it works because we are extraordinarily open-minded people and we're open to what the universe brings us and I think we didn't have preconceived ideas about what a partnership should be and so we allowed ourselves to discover something that was unexpected." Watch the couple's interview about their relationship below:  Now the couple just need to decide if they will spend more time at Lucas' Skywalker Ranch just north of San Francisco or in Hobson's hometown of Chicago ...  May the force be with them. SEE ALSO: The timing of George Lucas' Disney announcement is highly suspect &gt;
Home RestaurantThe West Village is known for its trendy restaurants, charming cafes, and incredible specialty food shops. In our opinion, it's the best neighborhood for food in Manhattan. (Disclosure: we are both West Village residents who might be a bit biased. But still.) Though there are no definitive boundaries, the West Village is loosely defined as the area that's bounded by 14th Street (to the north), Houston Street (to the south), 6th Avenue (to the east), and the Hudson River (to the west). From the best burger joints to the best fine dining restaurants, these are our favorite eateries in the West Village.
Last year, with heavy hearts, we reported the news that Gallagher's Steakhouse would be closing. Now according to the NY Post, the restaurant has been saved. Sure, there are other steakhouses, but Gallagher's has been in its West 55th Street location since the 1920s. Plus, last year saw the closure of another great steakhouse, Ben Benson's so frankly, we were already bruised. Thankfully, Gallagher's won't be going that way. Owner Marlene Brody sold the restaurant to Dan Poll, the operator of Boathouse. Gallagher's was set to close on January 16th. From the NY Post: ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs part of the fabric of New York, and I‚Äôm privileged to own it,‚Äù Poll said. He said the restaurant will continue to be called Gallagher‚Äôs and retain its classic, early- and mid-20th century look, including a meat locker at the entrance and wood-paneled dining rooms festooned with vintage photos of entertainers, politicians, athletes ‚Äî and racehorses... Customers often bumped into regulars like Shirley MacLaine, Jackie Mason, Broadway hoofers and even boxers heading for press conferences in the private upstairs room. Gallagher‚Äôs benefited from the theater district‚Äôs cleaned-up street environment and tourism boom ‚Äî but lost its appeal among a younger crowd enamored of modern steakhouses offering leaner, grass-fed and ‚Äúartisanal‚Äù cuts. Leaner shmeaner... those cuts look pretty good to us.
YouTube Screenshot777s being built at Boeing's Everett, Washington factory.Boeing booked 1,203 commercial airplane orders and delivered 601 airplanes in 2012, an especially strong year that should put it ahead of rival Airbus for the first time in a decade. For nine years running, Airbus had booked more orders. In 2012, its target delivery was 580 planes, leaving it short of Boeing's mark. Official Airbus figures will be announced on January 17, but they are unlikely to upset expectations, according to Reuters. For Boeing, the 1,203 orders are the second most in its history. The 601 deliveries are the best since 1999, and the 4,373 orders it has booked but not yet filled are the most ever, according to Arabian Business. Boeing's new success is in large part thanks to the popularity of its new 737 MAX, which accounted for 860 of its orders. The jet is 13 percent more efficient than any other single-aisle airplane, a major selling point in an industry where high fuel costs keep profit margins slim. Boeing has also streamlined its 777 production process, allowing for faster deliveries and lowered costs. In 2013, it plans to produce nearly 660 jets, dwarfing the 601 mark it just set, according to Reuters.
Jan. 4 (Bloomberg) -- The Treasury Department‚Äôs inspector general has threatened to punish JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. for failing to turn over documents to regulators investigating the bank‚Äôs ties to Bernard Madoff‚Äôs Ponzi scheme. Inspector General Eric Thorson gave the largest U.S. bank a Jan. 11 deadline to cooperate with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency probe or risk sanctions for impeding the agency‚Äôs oversight. JPMorgan, according to the Dec. 21 letter, contends the information is protected by attorney-client privilege. Thorson‚Äôs letter didn‚Äôt spell out what documents the OCC is seeking or the focus of its investigation. Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence after confessing to the fraud that once claimed to have $65 billion in customer assets. The previously undisclosed OCC probe adds to the lender‚Äôs troubles in Washington, where several agencies and lawmakers are investigating the bank‚Äôs loss of at least $6.2 billion on botched derivatives trades. The losses have prompted regulators including the Federal Reserve to consider tightening proposed restrictions on proprietary trading. Jennifer Zuccarelli, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said the bank ‚Äúwill of course continue to work together with our regulators‚Äù on the investigation. ¬† ¬† ‚ÄúThis dispute does not go to the merits of the matter but it does raise an important issue of principle: Whether we and other banks, large and small alike, have the fundamental right long recognized in this country to communicate freely with and seek confidential guidance from their lawyers,‚Äù Zuccarelli said in an interview. Bryan Hubbard, an OCC spokesman, declined to comment on the agency‚Äôs Madoff inquiry. In the letter sent to JPMorgan general counsel Stephen Cutler, the inspector general -- the Treasury‚Äôs internal watchdog -- dismissed JPMorgan‚Äôs arguments on attorney-client privilege, saying the OCC ‚Äúcould not do its work‚Äù if banks were allowed to withhold information on that basis. The OCC asked the IG office to review the situation, Thorson said in the letter. Failure to produce records ‚Äúwill have to be seen as a continuing purposeful impediment to the authority of the OCC,‚Äù the letter said, and would ‚Äúrequire further action by our office.‚Äù The trustee liquidating Madoff‚Äôs firm, Irving H. Picard, sued JPMorgan in December 2010, accusing the bank of aiding Madoff‚Äôs fraud. The lawsuit, eventually demanding $19 billion, the largest of Picard‚Äôs claims, has since been dismissed. Picard has appealed the ruling. ¬† ¬† JPMorgan ‚Äúhad financial reports in its possession that clearly evidenced fraud,‚Äù David J. Sheehan, lead counsel for Picard and a partner at Baker &amp; Hostetler LLP, said in a February 2011 statement. JPMorgan was the Madoff firm‚Äôs ‚Äúprimary banker for more than two decades,‚Äù Sheehan said. In responding to Picard‚Äôs suit, the bank issued a statement in 2011 saying it ‚Äúdid not know about or in any way become a party to the fraud‚Äù and called it an ‚Äúunfounded claim‚Äù that JPMorgan earned substantial fees from Madoff‚Äôs account. JPMorgan also objected in court when the trustee sought more freedom to use confidential Madoff documents provided by the bank. The OCC is also investigating the trading losses in the bank‚Äôs chief investment office and is preparing an enforcement action, according to a person briefed on the situation who asked not to be named because the matter isn‚Äôt public. The cease-and- desist order would require the bank to fix internal risk controls, the person said. In a second dispute involving demands from federal regulators for documents, a federal magistrate judge in Washington ruled in November that JPMorgan could invoke attorney-client privilege to keep private e-mails requested by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The agency had accused a JPMorgan unit of making ‚Äúfactual misrepresentations‚Äù and omitting material information in communications with the California Independent System Operator, which operates the state‚Äôs power grid, and in filings to the commission. The FERC suspended the unit‚Äôs electricity-trading authority for six months starting April 1.  --Editors: Maura Reynolds, Anthony Gnoffo ¬† To contact the reporters on this story: Robert Schmidt in Washington at rschmidt5@bloomberg.net; Jesse Hamilton in Washington at jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ¬† To contact the editors responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds at mreynolds34@bloomberg.net; David Scheer at dscheer@bloomberg.net 
It's jobs day in America. This morning we learned that the U.S. economy added 155k jobs in December and the unemployment rate ticked up in 7.8 percent.¬† Although the numbers were in line with economists' expectations, they still reflect a job market that remains incredibly weak almost four years into the economic recovery. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month putting the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This shows the depth of the recent employment recession - worse than any other post-war recession - and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. SEE ALSO: 75 Charts You Must See &gt;www.calculatedriskblog.com Watch below all the details about the fiscal cliff decision:
Bloomberg via YouTubeGold plunged over 3 percent yesterday after the release of FOMC minutes, which revealed that several members of the Fed wanted to end QE3 by the end of 2013. Now, Dennis Gartman, publisher of The Gartman Letter, writes that gold bugs who have operated on the thesis that the Fed has lost control of money supply are in tatters. He also says the only hope for them is that the FOMC of 2013 will be more dovish than last year's FOMC: "Commodity prices are falling and in some instances are falling quite sharply. Clearly that is the case with gold, for the minutes of the FOMC‚Äôs last meeting have shaken the hopes of the most violent ‚ÄúGold Bugs‚Äù malevolently, and have shaken our gold position rather materially. We are, however, rather nicely insulated from the real damage being done to the simplistic gold bugs who have owned and who still own gold predicated upon their thesis that the Fed has lost control of the money supply. That thesis is now in tatters... or at least has been very badly torn in the past twenty four hours... following the single sentence from the Fed‚Äôs minutes noted at length above. ‚Ä¶Yesterday‚Äôs plunge has indeed left its mark and gold buyers in US dollar terms are going to have to prove the very merit of their case... and soon. Further, they are going to have to do so with margin clerks looking over their shoulders today. That is hardly the time to make one‚Äôs best case. The game has changed for gold if we are to believe the minutes of the FOMC meeting, and at the moment we‚Äôve no choice but to believe them. The only hope for the gold/US$ bulls is that the newly constituted FOMC shall be more dovish than was the FOMC as constituted last year. That case can be made, but only at the margin. We shall accept the FOMC of ‚Äô13 as more dovish than was that of ‚Äô12, but only marginally so; not materially so." Gartman owns gold in euro and yen terms. Gold is off 1.4 percent today.
That Brooklyn houses one of New York City's hottest real estate markets is old news. But a look at some new data shows how uneven and concentrated the borough's¬†transformation is. A number of Brooklyn neighborhoods have seen their residential property values appreciate at an incredible clip. According to¬†PropertyShark's¬†real estate blog: Atlantic/Property Shark None of this is particularly surprising. Brooklyn's Park Slope bested Manhattan's Lower East Side for the crown of New York's "most livable" neighborhood in¬†a 2010 ranking¬†by Nate Silver for¬†New York¬†magazine. Cobble Hill/Boerum Hill, Greenpoint, Brooklyn Heights, Carroll Gardens/Gowanus, and Prospect Heights all numbered among the top 10. As the map shows, most of the neighborhoods that have seen substantial¬†increases in property values are directly across the river from lower¬†Manhattan, or near Prospect Park, the only exception being Coney Island to the far south. But what the map also shows is how localized this gentrification turns out to be. Despite Brooklyn's image as an uber-gentrified, artisanally-over-the-top hipster-ville, the reality is that more than half of Brooklyn's neighborhoods have actually seen their property values grow much more modestly or even slide. Atlantic/Property Shark When you look to the east towards Brownsville, Canarsie, and East Flatbush ‚Äî where millions of Brooklyn's residents live ‚Äî property values have declined by double digits. The three neighborhoods that have seen the biggest declines are Cypress Hills, East Flatbush, and Flatbush.¬†When you look to the traditional working class and middle class neighborhoods of Bensonhurst and Midwood, the appreciation is much more modest, in the single digits.¬† I have often noted that the world is getting spikier, as economic activity concentrates in certain locations. It happens within cities too ‚Äî even within boroughs, as some neighborhoods experience stunning growth, and others continue to languish. The map shows how uneven and spiky urban transformation is and how divided¬†our cities remain ‚Äî a subject I will be writing much more about in the New¬†Year.
APSen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) argued in a Houston Chronicle op-ed this morning that a partial government shutdown might be necessary to "restore fiscal sanity," slamming President Barack Obama for using fiscal deadlines as political brinkmanship.† In his op-ed, Cornyn highlighted three looming fights to come before the end of March ó the debt ceiling, the sequester, and the continuing appropriations resolution that provides funding for the federal government.† Cornyn wrote that it is "unacceptable" that Obama has said he won't negotiate over the debt ceiling:† [Obama] has already signaled an unwillingness to negotiate over the debt ceiling. This is unacceptable. The president should immediately put forward a plan that addresses these deadlines, and he should launch serious, transparent budget negotiations. The biggest fiscal problem in Washington is excessive spending, not insufficient taxation. Tax cuts didn't cause this problem, so tax increases won't solve it. If we don't reduce spending and reform our three biggest entitlement programs ó Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security ó then we will strangle economic growth, destroy jobs and reduce our standard of living. With the national debt above $16 trillion, and with more than $100 trillion in unfunded liabilities hanging over us, our toughest fiscal decisions cannot be postponed any longer. Cornyn concluded his op-ed by writing that a partial shutdown might be necessary "to secure the long-term fiscal well being of our country,†rather than plod along the path of Greece, Italy and Spain." Obama and others have argued that using the debt ceiling as a negotiation tactic is unacceptable. He wanted an increase in the debt ceiling to be part of a fiscal cliff deal. But even though he didn't get that, he has said he would not negotiate over what he called a "weapon ...†destroying our own credit rating." "That is a bad strategy for America, it's a bad strategy for your businesses and it is not a game I will play," Obama said in remarks to business leaders in December. "We are not going to play that game again next year. We've got to break that habit before it starts."
Deepak Narula, founder of Metacapital Partners, is the most successful large hedge fund manager in 2012, and he did it trading mortgage bonds, says Bloomberg Markets Magazine. In a year when the hedge fund industry returned an average of 1.3%, Narula, a former Lehman Brothers mortgage trader, returned 34%. Since launching his fund in 2008, he's returned 500% and his firm now manages $1.4 billion. And here's the trade that gave Narula a boost this year (from Bloomberg Markets Magazine): Narula‚Äôs edge in 2012 was in reading the tea leaves of Washington policy makers. Toward the end of 2011, government- backed mortgage securities dropped in value as Obama expanded programs to help owners refinance and bonds without insurance fell amid the euro crisis. Narula took advantage. He later concluded that the Federal Reserve was going to help homeowners and bought bonds ahead of its September announcement that it would buy $40 billion a month of agency -- that is, Fannie-, Freddie- and Ginnie Mae-backed -- mortgage bonds. Narula came to the United States from New Delhi in 1985 to get a in Ph. D. in Management Science from Columbia University (he teaches as an adjunct at Columbia Business School now). He joined Lehman after graduating in 1989 and became known as one of the best mortgage minds on the Street. He founded his fund, Metacapital Management, in 2001, but had to return money investors in 2007 because he was a little too early on his mortgage trade. He re-opened in 2008 and the rest is history ‚Äî Narula killed it. Check out this 2010 video where he talks about mortgages like most people talk about the weather. That year, by the way, he returned 53%. (from CNBC): And to see who else made the 2012 Top 100 hedge fund managers list, click here&gt; 
Lewis Hine / U.S. National ArchivesFactory orders effectively delivered no growth (0.0%) in November. Click Here For Updates &gt; Economists were looking for a gain of 0.4 percent, up from the 0.8 percent growth booked in October. From the Commerce Department: New orders for manufactured goods in November, up four of the last five months, increased $0.2 billion to $477.6 billion, the U.S. Census Bureau reported today. This followed a 0.8 percent October increase. Excluding transportation, new orders increased 0.2 percent. Shipments, up four of the last five months, increased $2.0 billion or 0.4 percent to $483.7 billion. This followed a 0.3 percent October increase. Unfilled orders, up five of the last six months, increased $1.1 billion or 0.1 percent to $984.5 billion. This followed a 0.3 percent October increase. The unfilled orders-to-shipments ratio was 6.14, down from 6.23 in October. Inventories, down two consecutive months, decreased slightly to $615.2 billion. This followed a slight October decrease. The inventories-to-shipments ratio was 1.27, down from 1.28 in October.
UPDATE: The ISM Services release is out. Click here for updates &gt; The index rose to 56.1, handily beating expectations of a drop to 54.1. The gains were led by a big boost in the employment sub-component of the index. That figure rose to 56.3 from November's¬†50.3 reading. The imports sub-component of the index fell sharply to 49.0 from 55.5. The backlog of orders sub-component also crossed into contraction territory, falling to 49.5 from November's 53.5 reading. Below is a full breakdown of the changes across the sub-indices, taken from the release: ISM Below are quotes from various respondents to the ISM survey across services industries, also provided in the release: Click here for the full release &gt; --------------- EARLIER: Minutes away from the release of the ISM Non-Manufacturing Composite index reading for the month of December, due out at 10 AM ET. Economists expect the index to fall to 54.1 from November's 54.7 reading. Any number over 50 signals expansion, so a drop to 54.1 would indicate a slowing rate of expansion in services industries in the United States. We will have the release LIVE at 10 AM ET. Click here for updates &gt;
Bloomberg Markets' ranking of the top 100 large hedge funds in the world is out, and it definitely looks different from last year's list. One major reason for the difference is that the Tiger Cubs ‚Äî hedge fund managers trained and seeded by the legendary founder of Tiger Management, Julian Roberston ‚Äî have slipped from the top spots on the list. Last year, 37 year-old Chase Coleman was the most successful hedge fund manager, with his long/short equity fund Tiger Global. He's known for having made early investments in tech companies like Facebook and Zynga. This year Coleman ranks #12, the highest of all the Tiger cubs returning 21% compared to last years 45%. The highest ranked Tiger Cub after Coleman is Maverick Capital's Lee Ainslee, with a gain of 16%. Tiger Asia's Bill Hwang, who ranked #25 last year, returned money to outside investors in August after a three year insider trading investigation by Hong Kong regulators. All of those funds are long/short equity funds. That's important to note because this year's top spots are mostly occupied by funds that have either asset backed or mortgage arbitrage strategies.
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderTwo days after Republican infighting swirled around House Speaker John Boehner's unexpected decision to pull a Hurricane Sandy relief bill from a potential floor vote, a top conservative group is urging the House of Representatives to vote against the bill. The House is expected to vote today on the first part of the bill, a $9.7 billion flood insurance bill. Andy Roth, the Club for Growth's¬†vice president of government affairs, said in a statement that the federal government should not be involved in providing flood insurance. Here's the group's full statement: The Club for Growth urges all members of the U.S. House to vote "NO" on the bill to expand the National Flood Insurance Program's borrowing authority by $9.7 billion. Consideration of the plan on the House floor is expected to occur today. This vote will be included in the Club for Growth's 2013 congressional scorecard. Congress should not allow the federal government to be involved in the flood insurance industry in the first place, let alone expand the national flood insurance program's authority. As we have said in a previous key vote alert, the proper way to address disaster relief is to release the funds in installments to make sure the resources are spent wisely. They should also strip out all immaterial line items, and fully offset all expenditures with spending cuts elsewhere. Serious reform would also include a way for the states to take over the responsibility for future disaster relief funding so that accountability is more localized. Our Congressional Scorecard for the 113th Congress provides a comprehensive rating of how well or how poorly each member of Congress supports pro-growth, free-market policies and will be distributed to our members and to the public. The conservative group Americans for Tax Reform has also come out against the bill, claiming that it contains too much "wasteful and unnecessary pork barrel spending." It comes two days after Republican lawmakers from New York and New Jersey ‚Äî most prominently Rep. Peter King and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie ‚Äî blasted House Republicans for pulling the plug on the Sandy relief bill.¬† "There is only one group to blame," Christie said in a press conference on Wednesday. "The House Majority and John Boehner."¬† "Last night, the House Majority failed the basic test of leadership and they did so with callous disregard to the people of my state. It was disappointing and disgusting to watch."¬† "Shame on you, shame on Congress."¬† UPDATE (11:25 a.m.):¬†The House has passed the partial Sandy relief bill, 354-67. All 67 "no" votes came from Republicans.
All the companies on the S&amp;P 500 are categorized into one of ten industries. Here's how much market cap each industry has held over the past 38 years:Goldman SachsHere's another chart that divides the same 10 industries up by how much money they made that year:Goldman Sachs During the late 90s, when info tech had 32% of all the market cap in the S&amp;P 500, it generated only 16% of the net income. In contrast, at the height of the financial bubble, the sector held 22% of the market cap but generated 32% of the income. It shows how not all bubbles are the same.
Bloomberg TVJPMorgan's Chief US Equity Strategist Tom Lee is known on Wall Street for his typically bullish outlook on the stock market. Lately, however, his views on where the S&amp;P 500 is headed from here haven't been as sanguine as usual. In his outlook for 2013, published in early December, Lee †wrote, "We see risks building in 1H and, thus, expect the S&amp;P 500 to be range-bound in 1H13 with a mid-year target of less than 1400," before predicting that the index would eventually appreciate to 1580 by the end of the year. Today, S&amp;P 500 futures are trading around 1457. In other words, Lee forecasts stocks will go down before they go up. Now, in his latest note, Lee tells clients not to get sucked into the growing consensus view that stocks are going higher (emphasis added): Our baseline for 2013 remains that of a tricky 1H, with strength to start (and as we mentioned in earlier notes, we see a move toward 1500) but followed by a correction that sees 1350 before midyear. This is a contrarian view on timingówe are seeing a growing chorus of investors who see stocks strong throughout 2013. In fact, even notable bears have turned ìbullishî on equities in 2013. We do not view this as a sign of ìringing the topî; rather, it is a reminder that investors need to be mindful of consensus and risks to the consensus view. Lee writes that although the global economy appears to be on the mend. However, as a final caution, he warns: "Bottom line: Stay constructive but wary as we approach 1500 or so." MORE: JP Morgan's Tom Lee Is Really Close To Making A Bunch Of People Look Really Stupid &gt;
www.nasa.govToday's jobs report was pretty meh: 155,000 new jobs, 7.8% unemployment. But there were three pieces of news that are genuinely good that are worth pointing out. 1. It wasn't worse. Yes, this seems like a cop-out, but given that we had the Fiscal Cliff looming over the economy, and on the news every day, the fact that we didn't see a hit to job creation is a big relief. 2. Construction jobs. Housing has been picking up, but housing hasn't yet contributed significantly to jobs. Now it's happening. Construction added 30,000 jobs. 3. The labor force. The labor force jumped nearly 200,000 jobs. People are getting optimistic again, and heading back into the workforce. For more on the jobs report, see here &gt;
US dollar gains have been extended for the third session.† The euro has been sold down to almost $.1.30 after testing $1.33 on Wed.† More stale longs may be forced out on a break of $1.2985, which corresponds to a 50% retracement of the advance from the mid-Nov low near $1.2660 and the 50-day moving average. Sterling's decline is even more dramatic.† It has come off hard since setting a 17-month high on Wed near $1.6380.† It has now been pushed below $1.6040, which the 61.8% retracement of its rally from mid-Nov low near $1.5830.† Sterling has also slipped below the 50 and 100-day moving averages for the first time in seven weeks. The main data in Europe was the service sector PMI.† The headline confirmed the five month high of† the 47.8 flash reading.† However, both the German and French reading came in below their flash reports.† Germany at 52.0 rather than 52.1 and France at 45.2 rather than 46.0.† The counter-balancing upside surprises came from Italy (45.6 up from 44.6 in Nov and 45.0 expected) and Spain (44.3 from 42.4 and forecasts of 42.8).† Yet even this should be kept in perspective.†† Spain and Italy headline service PMI have not been above the 50 boom/bust level for more than a year.† The UK's CIPS service PMI was as large a disappointment as the manufacturing PMI earlier in the week was a pleasant surprise.† The 48.9 reading contrasts with forecasts for 50.5 and the 50.2 reading in Nov.† It is the fourth consecutive month in which the headline has been lower.† New business is at a two year low.† The risk is that after the expansion in Q3, the UK economy contracted anew in Q4.†† At the same time, preliminary reports suggest the funding for lending scheme is easing the supply of credit and fear that the UK suffers from weak productivity more than the lack of aggregate demand (which could make further easing more inflationary than stimuluative, a la the BOE's Weale) means that there is unlikely to be a policy response to the new evidence of economic weakness.† Meanwhile, the greenback has pushed to new highs against the yen, moving above the JPY88 level in late Asia and holding above it in the European morning.†† The Nikkei re-opened for the first time in the new year to post a strong 2.8% gain.† Japanese government bonds slumped with the 10-year yield rising almost 4 bp to 0.825%, the highest level in more than three months. The 30-year bond yield rose to almost 2%, its highest level in more than a year.† Yet, given the magnitude of the yen's decline and prospect for more to come, and the policy thrust of the new government, it is surprising yields have not risen more.†† Japan will auction a total of JPY3 trillion of 10- and 30-year bonds next week and some of the weakness today may be related to deal position adjusting Many market participants seemed to emphasize the wrong part of the FOMC minutes. †The key take away is not that there is some disagreement among the members about the duration of QE. † Instead, the key point is that the Fed is committed to expanding its balance sheet by buying more than $1 trillion of MBS and Treasuries in 2013 ($85 bln a month).† We note that from the Fed's perspective, the stock of its holdings of long-term assets is the key to its effective not the flow of purchases. Moreover, its macro-economic guidance indicates that in will not raise interest rates until after unemployment falls below 6.5%, provided core PCE stays below 2.5%. † Plugging these macro-economic conditions into a Taylor-like model underscores the dovishness of the Federal Reserve. †On top of that, the composition of the FOMC, with new regional presidents rotating, tilts a bit more in the dovish direction.† The economic highlight of the day is the US jobs report. †In addition to the usual acknowledgements that this is among the most difficult high frequency data points to forecast, we share the following observations: †1) Many revised up their estimates following the stronger than expected ADP report. †This means the 150k consensus is probably on the low side of expectations 2) Initial jobless claims during the survey period were a little higher and small business survey was cautious. †ISM for manufacturing rose back above 50. † 3) ADP is not a good predictor on a monthly basis, though it tracks trends fairly well. 4) This is especially true for the month of December, where ADP has over-stated the first BLS estimate by an average of almost 150k in the past two years. †5) Uncertainty surrounding the fiscal cliff did not seem to weigh on hiring decisions. †Private sector job growth in in the Sept-Nov period was essentially no different than the prior three month period. †6) Net private sector job growth averaged about 151.5k in the first eleven months of 2012. †This compares with 153k monthly average in 2011.†        Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
Brendan Hoffman/Getty ImagesIf you don't give me what I want I'll destroy the country.An amusing idea is beginning to take hold among the country's leading economic thinkers. If the Republicans in Congress are really irresponsible and outrageous enough to hold the reputation and economy of the United States of America hostage to win a few re-election points, then perhaps the appropriate response is for the Treasury to save the country by minting a "trillion-dollar coin." If you're like most people, you'll jump to the wrong conclusion when you hear about this "trillion-dollar coin." You'll think that the "trillion dollar coin" is just another way for the government to print money out of thin air to pay for spending we can't afford. But that's actually not what the "trillion-dollar coin" idea is. The "trillion-dollar coin" is just a legal gimmick that responsible people in the U.S. government might use to enable the country to pay bills and honor prior commitments ... without relying on a group of selfish, irresponsible people in Congress to first raise the debt ceiling first. Basically, the "trillion-dollar coin" would just allow the Treasury, which pays the country's bills, to keep writing checks regardless of what Congress does with the debt ceiling. Business Insider, St. Louis FedYes, we have a budget problem. Spending (red) is too high as a percent of GDP and tax revenue (blue) is too low.And then the hundreds of millions of other reasonable, responsible people in the country can go on about their business until the folks in Congress finally grow up enough to address our budget problem like adults. Business Insider editor Joe Weisenthal, one of the main proponents of the "trillion dollar coin," explains in detail here how the mechanism would work. He also debunks some of the myths that have sprung up around the coin, including the idea that it would cause instant hyper-inflation. To be clear: The "trillion-dollar coin" is a ridiculous idea. It is an absurd legal gimmick that would ordinarily be the furthest thing from the minds of serious, responsible people who have been elected to lead this country through a challenging period. But the problem is that some of the people who have been elected to lead this country have revealed themselves to be unserious, irresponsible people. How? Business Insider, St. Louis FedImportantly, though, the problem is not just "spending." Tax revenue is near a 50-year low.By threatening to turn the United States of America into a deadbeat nation that refuses to pay its bills. That's right. A handful of Republicans in Congress are threatening to refuse to allow the United States Of America to pay the bills and fulfill commitments that the United States Of America has already promised to pay and fulfill. Why? Not because the United States of America can't pay these bills. Just because this handful of Republicans don't want the United States of America to pay these bills. In other words, a handful of Republicans in Congress are threatening to turn one of the most financially respected and responsible countries in the world into the equivalent of, say, Zimbabwe.  Why are these Republicans threatening to do this? Because the Republicans, rightly, point out that the United States Of America is currently spending way more than it takes in and that this behavior cannot go on indefinitely. On that point, the Republicans are being clear-eyed, reasonable, and responsible. And clear-eyed Democrats agree with them. But then the question becomes "how should the United States address its long-term budget challenge?"... and that's where politics comes in. And the Republican view is that it should be their way or Armageddon. The Republicans want the United States to cut spending on government programs that provide money, health care, and food to poorer and older Americans. WikipediaYes, the "trillion-dollar coin" is a ridiculous idea. But no more so than threatening to force default.And they want that spending cut now. And if that spending isn't cut now, well, then, the Republicans will just throw the United States Of America into default. That is not a reasonable or responsible position. It's an outrageous and irresponsible position. But this country has become so polarized and dysfunctional that it's actually being treated as a reasonable position by many responsible people who should know better. Importantly, this country does have a long-term budget problem, and that problem is going to require discipline, hard choices, and economic growth to solve. Those hard choices are going to include reducing the growth of some popular government spending programs, as well as the increase in some unpopular taxes. And the United States government absolutely, positively has to begin to make these hard choices in the next couple of years, or the U.S. really is going to become Zimbabwe. But these hard choices should be made responsibly, by serious, reasonable people. They should not be made by threatening to put the country into default ó or, for that matter, by minting trillion-dollar coins. If the Republicans persist in their irresponsible, outrageous threat to hold the whole country hostage, reasonable people will have a choice: * They will have to accede to the Republicans' demands (which, it is only a little stretch to say, is akin to negotiating with domestic economic terrorists), or * They will have to fight outrageous tactics with an outrageous tactic of their own. Minting a "trillion-dollar coin" is one of those potential outrageous tactics. And it is actually now being discussed by serious people as a way to keep moving the country forward. The other potential tactic, which is far more reasonable, is for President Obama to follow President Clinton's suggestion and just issue an executive order declaring that of course the United States will pay its bills and honor its commitments and give the Treasury the authority to do that. Yes, the Republicans might scream that this is illegal. And they might† take the President to court. But the President will probably have a good legal argument of his own, which is that, when a group of selfish, irresponsible people threaten to hold the entire country hostage to advance their own agenda, emergency measures are justified. We have big economic and budget challenges in this country, and we need to solve them. But we need to solve them like adults, not children. Threatening to put the United States of America into default just to score political points is not an adult tactic. It is a playground tactic. And if the only way to defeat that tactic is for a responsible adult to declare a state of emergency, then so be it. Find out everything you need to know about the #MintTheCoin movement below: SEE ALSO: Serious People Are Now Talking Seriously About The "Trillion-Dollar Coin"
Barney Frank has told Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick that he would like to go back to Washington as an interim Senator filling John Kerry's Senate seat, Politico reports. The recently retired Congressman refused the idea before. In the likely event that John Kerry is confirmed as Secretary of State, his Senate seat will be open for three months before Massachusetts can hold a special election. It is up to Governor Patrick to appoint someone to fill the seat. From Politico: ‚ÄúA month ago, or a few weeks ago, I said I wasn‚Äôt interested,‚Äù Frank said on MSNBC‚Äôs ‚ÄúMorning Joe.‚Äù ‚ÄúIt was kind of like you‚Äôre about to graduate, and they said: ‚ÄòYou gotta go to summer school.‚Äô But [the fiscal cliff deal] now means that February, March and April are going to be among the most important months in American financial history.‚Äù Other names have been thrown around for the position ‚Äî specifically, former Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis and former Massachusetts Supreme Court Justice Margaret Marshall ‚Äî but Frank's name has been getting the most attention from journalists. ¬†Frank does have a reputation for making things interesting... so can you blame them? ¬† ¬†
Robert Libetti/ Business InsiderThe December jobs report is out, and the results are largely in line with expectations. And markets are barely moving. S&amp;P futures are up 3 points and teh 10-year yield is at 1.94 percent. Ahead of the report US stock market futures were flat.† The U.S. 10 year yield was a 1.96%.† Gold was down to around $1,635/ounce. Some economists warned that a bullish number could actually cause market volatility to spike in the wake of yesterday's FOMC minutes release.† In case you missed it, some FOMC members said they wanted to end QE3 by the end of this year, which is much earlier than many had expected. Click Here For Full Details Of Today's Jobs Report &gt;
Screenshot via CNBCThe February 2013 edition of Bloomberg Markets Magazine features its ranking of the top 100 large hedge fund managers in the world. Unlike last year when the most successful hedge funds were a variety of strategies ‚Äî long/short, macro etc. ‚Äî this year's success stories mostly come from the world of mortgage bonds. This strategy provided an average return of 20.2 percent in 2012, far outpacing the industry average of 1.3 percent. The tiny average return was also far worse than the performance of the S&amp;P 500, which provided a double-digit return in 2012. Bloomberg reports 635 hedge funds closed due to these poor returns through September. The hedge fund managers listed here, though, are far from closing up shop ‚Äî some of them even manage multiple successful funds. In 2012, they dominated the market with returns ranging from 9 to 37.8 percent. Big thanks to Bloomberg Markets Magazine for permission to use their information.
The December jobs report will be released at 8:30 AM ET this morning. Economists are on average estimate that the U.S. economy created 152k new jobs during the month. However, TD Securities Senior Economist Millan Mulraine thinks the number will come in low at 107k. "We have been asked by many why our estimate for jobs is so low so," writes Mulraine. "What follows is a flushing out of the main themes with details that may appear tedious at times, but necessary." Here are the key points from Mulraine's note (emphasis ours): First, we are inclined to fade ADP, especially in December. ADP reconciles its payrolls with the BLS and since ADP generally undercounts jobs in a rising market (the opposite in a falling market) this now tends to make the adjustment at year end a large overestimation of December BLS payrolls. Over the past two years, ADP undercounted jobs by an average of 115k relative to the BLS over the Jan-Nov period. This fuelled an overestimation of payrolls by an average 144k in the past two Decembers. In 2012 ADP is missing even more jobs, undercounting 177k jobs relative to the BLS. If anything, the ADP number is thematically consistent with our weak payroll expectation. Second, unadjusted job growth is typically down 200 to 300k in December which may be surprising to many given the expectation of a ramp up in seasonal hiring. However, over the past 13 years NSA jobs have fallen in December, a trend that stands in sharp contrast to the 1990ís. Seasonal factors for December should reflect this, but with a discount factor marginally over 1 the BLS has yet to catch up to hiring trends that are pulled increasingly forward into November. We suspect the NSA job loss will be at the top end of the range, around 290k, an estimate supported by the larger increase in December claims this year relative to previous years. Given an estimated December discount factor of 1.006083 it would yield about 110k jobs. Third,  even with goods producing jobs rising (25k) at the fastest rate since last March (they fell 22k drop in November). We forecast 30k in education and health up from 18k in November, with some give back in information jobs 5k, flat finance jobs, and 20k in leisure/hospitality which is a tad off its 24k run rate since September. Business services is one of two big wild cards and at 30k is we expect a modest payback from the 48k average the prior two months driven by uncertainty on the fiscal cliff and a workweek and overtime hours that has been holding around the low end of its recent ranges. That leaves retail jobs. We expect these to fall about 10k which is a marked departure from recent strength. Unadjusted retail jobs surged at the second fastest rate since 2000 in November. Since September retail jobs have increased at the fastest pace since 1994, 100k above the average in 2002-2007, and 150k above the average in 2010 and 2011. We suspect a disappointing retail season; over hiring in the prior three months, and uncertainty on the fiscal cliff will lead to a lower NSA gain of about 90k in December. That estimate yields a decline of about 10k on a seasonally adjusted basis. Looking at the jobs report in this fashion gives us a forecast of about 105k to 110k. Mulraine, however, is more optimistic about the longer term outlook for jobs. "The turn in housing, decent credit growth, a Bernanke put that has turned from implicit to explicit, and the late inning stage of household deleveraging places the private economy in the best shape in six years," he writes. "Job growth will accelerate in 2013 as uncertainty dissipates; the negative effects from construction, government jobs, and finance abate, and as the broader economy continue to improve. "The risk, however, is that this wonít be obvious in the December jobs number." TD Securities
FlickrThe official†Twitter†prediction for today's non-farm payrolls report is +172K. This was based on 50 Twitter submissions using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 7:53 AM ET. Wall Street economists forecast today's headline non-farm payrolls number will come in at†152K new jobs. Click here for an in-depth preview of today's release &gt; We will have the jobs data LIVE at 8:30 AM ET. Click here for updates &gt;
Instagram/rootstartup The December jobs report came in right in line at 155K. That's exactly in line with expectations. This was probably the least anticipated jobs report of all time. There was no political angle or economic angle that anyone was excited to see. And the meh number justifies the lack of hype. It's a fine, nothing special number that won't move the needle on anything. Past revisions were slightly higher, but not that much. The full report is here.  ¬† ------ Earlier: The granddaddy of economic data comes out at 8:30 AM ET: It's th December Non-Farm Payrolls Report. This report hasn't gotten that much attention, in part due to the holiday week, and also because the political implications have gone down. But it's still the jobs report. Analysts expect 152K new jobs. The unemployment is expected to stay flat at 7.7%. We'll have the number here LIVE.
Gold futures are dropping like stones again today after a big selloff yesterday. The shiny yellow metal is down 2.2 percent in morning trading. It's had a particularly rough start to the year: Thinkorswim Earlier this morning, gold hit a low of $1626 per ounce, but has bounced back to gain about ten bucks. In their Daily Metals Outlook this morning, Deutsche Bank analysts wrote: Gold traders were pretty confused yesterday. The FOMC minutes caught many on the wrong foot. In principal the early December FOMC meeting was already forgotten, as the subsequent speech from Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke didn‚Äôt indicate any surprising insight. Taking a closer look to the minutes now one can see, however, that Bernanke‚Äôs speech a month ago, was likely an interpretation of his own viewpoint, which obviously doesn‚Äôt fully match with the opinion of several other members of the committee. Whilst he doesn‚Äôt support the idea of an end of the Bond purchase program this year, other Fed members do. This time, it was obviously not only Jeffrey Lacker who expressed reservations. Only few members would like to see the buying to be finished at the end of 2013, while several others are inclined to act even earlier (slowing or stopping the program). Market participants are now puzzled: How many could finally vote for an earlier end on the next meeting?  Since gold stopped its recovery attempt just $1.5 ahead of our 1696.00 stabilisation key, it reversed direction sharply. Yesterday, it violated our critical $1665 near-term pivot, which means the metal is now likely to retest its December $1635.50 trough and then the 1616.00 support/potential. The negative view will remain, as long as the 1670.00 resistance stands. The last two days of trading have also put gold below its 200-day moving average, another critical level for followers of technical analysis. MORE: Deutsche Bank Warns Of A 'Violent' Turn In The Dollar In 2013 &gt;
Our jaws are dropping at this. The Huffington Post has joined the campaign for Obama to end the debt ceiling crisis by minting a trillion dollar coin, a solution we've been pushing hard since yesterday Their main splash which declares: HuffPo
Christopher Polk/Getty Images for VH1Good morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Yesterday's ADP jobs report caused various analysts on Wall Street to crank up their estimates for today's jobs report. But we got another good sign, as well: Car sales. Total December light-vehicle sales came in at a 15.3 million annualized rate. That's nicely above the 15.1 million that analysts were expecting. And although the number was down slightly from November, November was boosted due to Hurricane Sandy replacement buying and catch up from a weakness in the last days of October. Via this chart from Calculated Risk, you can see that December was the best month (if you exclude the artificially high November) since the crisis. Calculated Risk And this is great, since over years, light-vehicle sales move together with the unemployment rate/jobs (which makes sense, since people who get jobs buy cars). Hopefully this is an auspicious reading. 
flickr / MEDEFThe Greek prosecution service has questioned two finance ministry officials close to former socialist finance minister George Papaconstantinou, who is caught up in a tax scandal shaking Greek politics, judicial sources said on Friday. The two officials worked in Papaconstantinou's office when he was minister from 2009 to 2011. The source said that the prosecutor Grigoris Peponis had summoned them "with great discretion" for questioning late on Thursday. The investigation concerns the alleged falsification of a list of names of people with accounts at HSBC bank in Switzerland and who are suspected of having used Swiss accounts to evade tax. Judicial information has indicated that the names of people close to Papaconstantinou had been removed from the list. Revelations surrounding the matter on Friday led to the removal of Papaconstantinou, 51, from the membership of the socialist Pasok party. On Monday, 71 members of parliament representing political parties on the right and the moderate left, and the Socialists, which support the governing alliance led by conservative Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, laid a proposal before parliament for the creation of a parliamentary commission of enquiry. This would investigate the alleged role of Papaconstantinou in the matter. If this commission is set up as a result of a vote to be held in the middle of January, it would look into whether or not the minister had been involved in the falsification of an official document and had not acted as he should have done. The controversy has badly shaken the world of Greek politics in recent days given that the International Monetary Fund and the European Union, which have provided bailout loans, have made fighting tax evasion a top priority in the effort to deal with the Greek debt crisis. The list of names is known to Greeks as the "Lagarde list" after Christine Lagarde who was French finance minister at the time and now heads the IMF. Lagarde had come into possession of the list of 2000 names which had been removed secretly from HSBC bank by an employee. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
mtsofan/flickrIn his morning note, SocGen's currency guru Kit Juckes has a very interesting observation regarding the latest minutes from the Fed and the ensuing market action. Remember, markets sold off and the dollar rallied yesterday on a few vague hints that the Fed's appetite for more easing may be coming to an end. Juckes predicts that by the end of the year the whole "risk-on/risk-off" market behavior (where everything behaves in unison across asset classes) will die. ¬†The ‚Äòrisk-on/risk-off' regime is based on the premise that good economic data in the US are bad for the dollar because the Fed is on hold for ever and US yields are so low that yield-hungry investors are squeezed out of US markets and into foreign currencies. If the traditional relationship between US yields and economic data is restored, the ‚Äòrisk-on/risk-off' regime will come to an end (not before time), and stronger US data will be dollar supportive. This is going to happen at some point this year, and the overnight move is a taste of how it plays out. Only a taste however, as the FOMC is still too split and a change in Fed direction is still a long way away. This has the potential to be a year in which markets behave very differently than they have. Other analysts have suggested some kind of "end of macro," whereby thanks to a normalized environment, stock selection comes back into vogue, and it's not about just timing whether the indices will go up or down. SEE ALSO: Analyst says markets are fearing a '1994' scenario in markets &gt;
Dave Gates via FlickrThe U.S. housing market turned the corner in 2012. The latest home price report from Trulia says home prices were up 5.1 percent year-over-year nationally. And the pace of increases has also picked up in the year. With home prices up 0.8 percent quarter-over-quarter in Q1, and up 2.3 percent in Q4. We drew on Trulia's latest report to highlight the top "turnaround markets" of 2012, i.e. markets with the biggest increase in home prices between December 2011 and December 2012. Note: The report looks at the 100 largest metros in the U.S. All price and rent changes are on a year-over-year basis.
FREDDue out this morning at 8:30 AM ET is the December nonfarm payrolls report from the BLS, and the release of the FOMC minutes†Thursday afternoon from the Federal Reserve's latest policy meeting just made it a lot more interesting. The Fed recently announced that it would tie its interest rate policy guidance to a 6.5 percent unemployment rate threshold ñ meaning unemployment data has taken on special significance for markets. Thursday's FOMC minutes release revealed, however, that the Fed is already discussing scaling back or ending quantitative easing as soon as later this year, which makes the course of employment data even more important for markets in the short term. The consensus estimate among Wall Street economists is for a 153K rise in nonfarm payrolls in December after a 146K gain the month before. Private payrolls are expected to rise 150K after adding 147K in November, and manufacturing payrolls are expected to rise by 5K after falling by 7K in November. The headline unemployment rate is expected to stay unchanged at 7.7 percent. Deutsche Bank's Chief U.S. Economist, Joe LaVorgna, wrote in a note Thursday that he expects the unemployment rate to actually tick up slightly on Friday morning: In regards to December nonfarm payrolls, we currently anticipate +150k on the headline (+165k private) and a one-tenth increase in the unemployment rate (to 7.8%). This would be in line with the average over the past 12 months (151k). As we have previously written (US Economics Weekly, December 14), based on the trend of the past several years, we estimate that the unemployment rate will reach 6.5% by H2 2014. This is earlier than what the Fedís central tendency forecasts imply, which suggest sometime in 2015. On Thursday, ADP's monthly payrolls report blew by expectations.†ADP says 215K private-sector jobs were created in December, well above estimates of a 150K gain. The number caused BofA Merrill Lynch economists Michelle Meyer and Ethan Harris to bump up their estimates for Friday's nonfarm payrolls report. They wrote in a note to clients Thursday: While we are cautious in reading too much into the signal from ADP, we donít want to dismiss it entirely. Even if there is an upward bias, it is still significantly above our initial forecast of 100K for private payrolls and 90K for total jobs. In addition, the employment index from the ISM manufacturing survey improved, suggesting an uptick in manufacturing jobs. And lastly, the continued gain in housing construction suggests hiring in the sector, particularly after the surprising decline in construction jobs in November. We are therefore revising up our forecast to 130K for total payrolls and 140K for private payrolls. However, Meyer and Harris say their estimate for Friday's nonfarm payrolls is still below consensus: Despite our upward revision, we remain below the consensus forecast of 150,000 for NFP. We feel comfortable with this forecast for three reasons. First, we anticipate retail hiring to be soft given the rapid gains in retail jobs over the prior three months. This is consistent with the strong start to the holiday shopping season but sluggish end. Second, business and consumer confidence remained weak in December, likely related to the fiscal cliff. And finally, initial jobless claims, after accounting for seasonal factors, are hovering at pre-Sandy levels. Citi economist Steven Wieting parses the latest jobless claims data, released in the U.S. on a weekly basis, to come up with a nonfarm payrolls forecast of 140K new jobs in December: Claims in the month of December averaged about 360,000 (a couple of days are needed to pro-rate the actual monthly reading). This marked a monthly cycle low as is typical of early-to-mid cycle recoveries. However, at 360,000 the claims pace is only consistent with moderate employment gains. With claims at 368,000 at the mid month survey period, we expect total non-farm employment rose 140,000 in December. Morgan Stanley economist David Greenlaw is perhaps one of the most bullish heading into Friday's nonfarm payrolls report. He forecasts a 185K gain in nonfarm payrolls, owing to payback from Hurricane Sandy: Although the BLS indicated that Hurricane Sandy did not ìsubstantively impactî the November employment data, we suspect that the effect on payrolls was at least -50,000. We arrive at this conclusion based on the big move in our favorite proxies for weather-related influences on the data and an analysis of the state-by-state breakdown that was released a couple of weeks after the national report. The state data showed that jobs declined by 40,000 in the NY/NJ region, while rising about 140,000 in all other states. We suspect that many of the businesses that were forced to close in the aftermath of Sandy were reopened by the time the December survey period arrived. This factor is expected to help boost the payroll tally relative to the 2011-12 trend of about +150,000 per month. Finally, a partial rebound in labor force participation this month should contribute to an unchanged reading for the unemployment rate. However, Societe Generale economist Brian Jones is even more bullish. He forecasts a 225K gain in nonfarm payrolls and expects the unemployment rate to fall to 7.6 percent. In addition to the improvement in various other labor market indicators cited by others, Jones sees weather conditions providing a pickup: On the technical side, a dramatic swing in weather conditions between canvasses will likely provide a significant lift to observed job creation in several industries including construction and manufacturing. The breadth of job gains across industries, as measured by the BLSí one-month diffusion index, had been expanding fairly rapidly over the August-October span and the reported November dip likely represented only a temporary pause. The number of persons unable to work because of bad weather from the household survey, our proxy for the impact of climatic conditions on hiring, soared to 369,000 in November ñ a record for that month. Our NFP forecast incorporates a halving in that variable to 186,000, matching the average December reading over the 2007-11 span. That assumption could prove conservative. Indeed, at 695, the number of heating degree days in December was 122 below normal. The monthly nonfarm payrolls report will be released at 8:30 AM ET.†Follow the release LIVE on Money Game &gt;
Yesterday, the Federal Reserve confused the markets with an unexpectedly hawkish tone in the minutes of its December FOMC meeting. Here's a recap of the statement and market reaction from UBS: ìA few membersî see asset purchases ìuntil about the end of 2013î, and ìseveral othersî would ìslow or stop purchases well before the end of 2014î. ìA fewî specified no time frame. This guidance on the date that purchases might end was a bit odd in that the FOMC just moved away from giving guidance on timing relative to the funds rate. It also appeared to surprise financial markets as 10-year Treasury yields jumped 7bps to 1.91%. UBS continues to believe that the unemployment rate and inflation rate targets introduced in the December meeting will continue to serve as guideposts to monetary policy. However, they also note another factor in determining the direction of policy: "the composition of the FOMC, which becomes quite a bit more dovish at the upcoming meeting (please see table on following page)." As the economists note below, the Fed members who suggested an early end to QE last year may be getting replaced by more dovish members this year. UBS
AP(Reuters) - The U.S. securities regulator has decided not to take action against David Sokol, once considered a possible candidate for the top job at Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc, Sokol's lawyer told Reuters. In 2011, Buffett said Sokol violated the company's insider trading rules to score a $3 million windfall profit on shares of U.S. chemicals maker Lubrizol, which rose by nearly a third after Berkshire Hathaway announced it would buy the company. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) began investigating Sokol's investment in Lubrizol shortly after Sokol resigned from Berkshire Hathaway. Sokol's lawyer Barry Wm. Levine told Reuters late on Thursday that he was informed that the SEC had wrapped up its probe and decided not to take action against Sokol. "SEC has terminated its investigation and has concluded not to bring any proceedings against Sokol," said Levine, a lawyer at legal firm Dickstein Shapiro. Sokol has been "completely cleared" as there was no evidence against his client, Levine said. Berkshire Hathaway and SEC could not immediately be reached for comment by Reuters outside of regular U.S. business hours. Buffett surprised many when he said Sokol had violated insider trading rules by failing to disclose his purchase of Lubrizol shares, less than four weeks after starting talks with Citigroup Inc bankers on acquiring all the shares in the chemicals company that Berkshire Hathaway did not already own. Sokol, who once chaired Berkshire Hathaway's MidAmerican Energy unit, ran its NetJets plane leasing unit, and was a top Warren Buffett deal maker. He was considered a leading contender to succeed Buffett as Berkshire Hathaway's chief executive. Buffett told investors last year that Berkshire Hathaway's board has identified his successor, easing some shareholder concern about the future of the company once the famed investor steps down as chief executive. Buffett, however, did not disclose who the next CEO will be in his annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders last year. (Reporting by Sakthi Prasad in Bangalore; Editing by Ryan Woo) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The Japanese yen continues to tumble on the promise of of aggressively easy monetary policy from incoming Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Currently, the yen is at 88.22 against the U.S. dollar.¬† Bloomberg reports that this is the weakest level for yen since July 15, 2010. Bloomberg
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderMarkets aren't doing much early in the European trading session. For the most part, they're down. England's FTSE 100 is down 0.1 percent. France's CAC 40 is down 0.2 percent. Germany's DAX is down 0.1 percent. Spain's IBEX is up 0.2 percent. Italy's FTSE MIB is flat. A surprisingly weak UK services PMI number suggests the UK economy may have slipped into recession in Q4 of last year. All attention will be focused on today's U.S. December jobs report, which will get released at 8:30 AM ET. Yesterday, we learned that several members of the Federal Open Market Committee supported ending QE3 sometime this year, which is much earlier than some would've expected.¬† This surprise hawkish tone has some experts thinking that good economic data would trigger volatility in the markets. For now, U.S. futures are down. Click Here For Updates &gt;
MarkitThe UK's services PMI contracted to 48.9 in December from 50.2 in November. Economist were looking for an increase to 50.5. Here are the key points from Markit: "The first fall in service sector activity for two years raises the likelihood that the UK economy is sliding back into recession," wrote Markit's Chris Williamson. "The services PMI follows an equally disappointing construction survey for December, leaving manufacturing ‚Äì which accounts for just 10% of the economy ‚Äì as the only bright spot. Taken together, composite data from the three surveys posted its worst quarterly performance for three-and-a-half years, and are consistent with the economy contracting by approximately 0.2% in Q4."
