One of the hottest companies in the enterprise security market, FireEye, is gearing up for its IPO. It filed its paperwork with the SEC on Friday. FireEye plans to raise up to $175 million although it hasn't yet said how many shares it plans to offer, or the price range or the date. In January, FireEye became an enterprise company to watch when it landed a $50 million round of financing and a $1.25 billion valuation. It had raised a total investment of $85.5 million. At that time, CEO Dave DeWalt told us that the next stop was an IPO, probably later this year. DeWalt had joined the company last November. He'd previously been the CEO of antivirus software maker McAfee, where he led the company through a turnaround to its acquisition by Intel for $7.6 billion. DeWalt wasn't the only big name attracted to FireEye. Investors include Juniper Networks, Silicon Valley Bank and the the CIA's venture-capital arm, In-Q-Tel. That's because the company's tech solves a really hard security problem. It can detect two types of hacker attacks that are very difficult to stop: "zero day" attacks and "advanced persistent threats." Zero-day attacks are ones where hackers use bugs the software vendor hasn't yet fixed. The vendor has had "zero days" to come up with a fix.¬† APTs are when hackers use all means possible to break into a particular network.¬† FireEye's security "appliance"‚Äî a combination of hardware and software ‚Äî finds these attacks by running the suspicious code or opening suspicious emails in a protected area to see what they do. The process takes a fraction of a second. The company has more than doubled revenue in the first half of 2013 to $61.6 million, from $29.7 million in the first half of 2012. It posted a net loss of $67.2 million for the first half, compared to a loss of $14.3 million in the same period of 2012.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. Now That The Fed Has Flinched Our Investment Themes Are Defensive And Eclectic (A. Gary Shilling Insights) The Fed's announcement earlier this year that it would taper its $85 billion per month asset purchase program prompted investors to switch to risk-off mode. But, "seeing the damage it had wrought, the Fed flinched and "risk-on" investments returned," writes Gary Shilling. While he still expects the "Grand Disconnect between robust security markets and subdued at best economic reality," to close, his investment themes are now "defensive ó to avoid getting whipsawed ó and eclectic to take advantage of situations that are somewhat removed from the Fed's line of fire." Shilling is 1. "Long Treasury bonds, but modestly." 2. "Long Japanese stocks and short the yen." 3. "Long dividend-heavy stocks such as utilities, consumer staples and health care." 4. "Short commodities." 5. "Short commodity-exporter currencies." 6. "Short emerging market stocks and bonds." 5 Reasons Everyone Needs To Hire An Advisor (Rick Ferri) The main role of a financial advisor is to "get a client on a simple plan and keep them on track," writes Rick Ferri. Even for investors that swear by index investing. he says there are five reasons to hire an advisor.† 1. "To put space between you and your investments so that you donít make emotional decisions." 2. "To do detailed research on asset allocation or index funds because you would rather spend time doing more enjoyable things." 3. "To provide help to a spouse or family member who isnít inclined to do it on their own." 4. "To provide help to a spouse or family member when youíre no longer able." 5. "For legal purposes to reduce your fiduciary responsibility such as a charitable trust account." Financial Advisors Are The Biggest Losers In Mandatory Arbitration (The Wall Street Journal) In a new WSJ column Norb Vonnegut writes that "mandatory arbitration is the root cause" of the wealth management industry's "PR problem." And financial advisors are the biggest losers under this system ó in which clients are asked to take up their complaints with FINRA and waive their rights to courts.† "Good advisers may be the biggest losers from arbitration. BrokerCheck reports no positive buzz. It just implies the absence of trouble. No carrot, all stick. However, the real problem is that disputes encourage firms to throw their advisers under the bus when trouble strikes. "Let's put it out there: Some investors go thug when their investments sour. They authorize a buy. The stock crashes. And then they say, "I never authorized that trade. Blank you. Pay me." Talk about a rogue client. "In a situation like this, the firm can fight the claim and defend the adviser through arbitration. Or, it can settle the case and move on. It is just business for the firm. But the adviser carries a ding on his or her U-4 forever, an uncomfortable discussion point in those first meetings with prospects." Hedge Funds Have Never Been More Crowded Into The Oil Trade (BofA Merrill Lynch) "Large speculators reduced WTI crude oil longs to $37.4 billion from $38.7 billion notional [last week]," according to BAML analysts. "Despite the marginal pullback, both net notional and net notional as a [percentage of open interest] are near record all time highs." Of course this could become a risk if there was a sell off. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research Investors Should Stop Relying On The Fed Put (Bloomberg) Richard Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed has said that investors can't rely on the Fed put i.e. easy central bank monetary policy that supports markets. "Some have come to expect the Fed to keep the markets levitating indefinitely. This distorts the pricing of financial assets" he said at a press conference in Portland. He added that this could also cause a "serious misallocation of capital. Fisher said the Fed needs to "gingerly unwind it [quantitative easing] so as not to prompt market havoc."
REUTERS/Rick WilkingBerkshire Hathaway Chairman Warren Buffett reacts at a newspaper throwing competition before the company's annual meeting in Omaha, May 4, 2013. Amazon.com CEO Jeff Bezos just spent $250 million purchasing ¬†The Washington Post. You may recall that Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway is the largest and among the longest-tenured shareholders in the Washington Post Company, which owns the paper along with a bunch of other stuff¬†including test prep firm Kaplan. (Buffett also served 25 years on the Post's board, having spent part of his youth in DC.) So, what gains has he seen on the investment? Buffett started accumulating shares in 1973.¬† As of 2004, he owned 1.7 million shares at a cost basis of $11 million, according to 24/7 Wall Street. According to Berkshire Hathaway's most recent 13-F, he owns the same amount of shares today. That position was valued at $772 million at the end of Q1. However, the stock has been on a tear, up 55% since the beginning of the year. In after-hours trading, Washington Post Company is at $598, which values Buffett's 1.7 million shares at $1.01 billion. Assuming the $11 million cost basis holds, that's a whopping 9,080% return. Wow. Meanwhile, the stock is up about 1.5% after hours Monday.
West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil futures are up an impressive 27.2% in just the last 9 months. After hitting a high of $108.93 a barrel on July 19, the long-oil trade took a breather, but last week, oil supply disruptions in Libya sent futures back toward recent highs, and today, WTI trades around $106.50 a barrel. "Oil is now, according to our commodities team, the most richly traded commodity in the world in real terms after massive appreciation over a multi-year horizon," say Deutsche Bank strategists¬†Rocky Fishman,¬†Salil Aggarwal, and¬†Lon Parisi. BofA Merrill Lynch analysts¬†MacNeil Curry,¬†Jue Xiong,¬†Stephen Suttmeier highlight how extreme positioning in the asset class has become, using data from the latest weekly Commitment of Traders report from the CFTC. "Large speculators reduced WTI crude oil longs to $37.4 billion from $38.7 billion notional [last week]," write the BAML analysts in a note to clients. "Despite the marginal pullback, both net notional and net notional as a [percentage of open interest] are near record all time highs." Extreme positioning could become a risk in the event of a sell-off as "fast money" hedge fund types of investors, which are included in the "large speculators" category of the Commitment of Traders report, exit the asset class. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
nffcnnr/flickrThe S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high on Friday. While some think stocks could head higher, many believe we're overdue for a decent sized sell-off. And that brings us to our latest list of the most heavily shorted stocks. It has a good mix of just about every sector you can think of ‚Äî retail, semiconductors, energy, manufacturing and homebuilders. The names themselves will probably seem familiar ‚Äî a clothing chain that just can't catch a break, a video game seller outlet everyone loves to hate, and a mining group we're pretty sure has been on every single one of these lists. One thing we should make clear: The stocks in this list are also vulnerable to short-squeezes, or sudden spikes in their price. We ranked the stock by short interest as a percentage of floating shares.
Screenshot via Bloomberg.comDavid¬†Tepper, who has been running distressed debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management for the past twenty years, is crushing it this year.¬† According to CNBC's Scott Wapner, he's up 23.4% net of fees year-to-date. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P is up about 19.7% this year.¬† Tepper was up 5.5% in July net of fees.¬† He's still bullish on stocks. He told Wapner that he finds them "reasonable" and that he's still long. ¬† Earlier this year, he was super bullish, though.¬†He told Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle back in January that the U.S. was on¬†"the verge of an explosion of greatness." Also, Tepper, who has one of the best long-term track records, pointed out in his July investor letter, which was first reported by Institutional Investor, that if you¬†invested $1 million with him in 1993 and didn't pull out you would have around $149 million. By the way, Tepper told Ruhle¬†during lunch today that he'd be staying out of the whole Herbalife debacle. Leave that for the other titans.
NEWPORT BEACH ñ August is traditionally Europeís holiday month, with many government officials taking several weeks off. In the process, important initiatives are put on hold until the ìgreat returnî at the beginning of September. This year, there is another reason why Europe has pressed the pause button for August. With a looming election in Germany, few wish to undermine Chancellor Angela Merkelís likely victory. After all, Germany is central to Europeís well-being, and Merkelís steady hand has allowed the continent to overcome a series of challenges over the last few years. As a result, many are eager to postpone any controversial policy decisions rather than rock the German political boat. Some of the recent economic news has seemed to justify this approach. At the end of July, the widely watched indicator of European manufacturing activity crossed the threshold signaling expansion for only the second time in 23 months. Adding to the sense of comforting normality, several European officials have taken to the airwaves with optimistic pronouncements. Whereas the euro and the eurozone were ìunder threat just nine months ago,î European Council President Herman Van Rompuy recently declared, ìthis isnít the case anymore.î All of this has underpinned a much-welcome calm in financial markets. Sovereign interest-rate spreads have been well-behaved, the euro has strengthened, and equity markets have risen robustly. Yet no one should be fooled. This summerís sense of normality is neither natural nor necessarily tenable in the long term. It is the result of temporary and ñ if Europe is not attentive ñ potentially reversible factors. If officials do not return quickly to addressing economic challenges in a more comprehensive manner, the current calm may give way to renewed turmoil. The task for Europe is not just a matter of restarting and completing the economic and political initiatives, whether regional or domestic, that have been put on hold until after the German election. In fact, these top-down decisions, while admittedly complex and certainly consequential, may be the least of Europeís challenges. Europe must also counter and reverse micro-level challenges that are becoming more deeply embedded in its economic and financial structure. Each day that passes complicates the design and implementation of lasting solutions to four problems in particular. First, joblessness continues to spread. The overall unemployment rate (12%) has yet to peak, led by an alarming lack of jobs among the young (24% joblessness in the eurozone as a whole, with highs of 59% and 56% in Greece and Spain, respectively). Second, adjustment fatigue is widespread and becoming more acute. Long-struggling European citizens ñ especially the long-term unemployed ñ have yet to gain any sustained benefit from the austerity measures to which they have been subjected. And the result is not just general disappointment and worrisome social unrest. In the last few weeks, political stability in Greece and Portugal has been threatened as governments struggle with declining credibility and a rising popular backlash. Third, bailout fatigue is apparent. Citizens in the stronger European economies are increasingly unwilling to provide financial support to their struggling neighbors; and their elected representatives will find it hard to ignore growing resentment of repeated diversion of national tax revenues, which has yielded only disappointing outcomes. Meanwhile, high levels of past exposure and weakening creditor coordination are undermining the availability of external funding, including from the International Monetary Fund. Finally, little oxygen is flowing to the private sector. While Europe has succeeded in stabilizing its sovereign-bond markets, financial intermediation for small and medium-size enterprises remains highly disrupted. With most credit pipelines already partly blocked, the shortage of corporate credit will become more severe as regulators finally force banks to embark on a proper mobilization of prudential capital and shrink balance sheets to less risky levels. All of this adds up to a sad reality for Europe. Despite hopeful blips in an economic indicator here and there, too many countries lack both immediate growth and longer-term growth engines. As a result, debt overhangs will remain problematic. Owners of private capital that could be allocated to productive investment will remain hesitant. And societies will continue to lack the jobs and capital investment that are essential for durable prosperity and general well-being. Europeís external environment is not helping, either. On the demand side, the ongoing economic slowdown in China is starting to affect companiesí orders and revenues, adding to the challenges stemming from the persistently sluggish US economy. Meanwhile, the euroís recent appreciation (particularly against the Japanese yen) limits Europeís ability to compensate for anemic global demand by capturing greater market share. These developments point to a much larger phenomenon: because of delayed awareness of the complex challenges (and the related slow and partial policy responses) facing much of the West, the low-equilibrium growth pattern that has prevailed in recent years (what has been called the ìnew normalî) is becoming less stable. And Europe is a leading indicator of this. In essence, Europe (and the West more generally) owes its recent tranquility to a series of experimental measures by central banks to offset the troubling combination of too little demand to generate sufficient job creation, inadequate structural reforms to revamp growth engines, debt overhangs that undermine productive investment, and insufficient policy coordination. Consequently, the resulting surface calm masks still-worrisome economic and financial fundamentals. Let us hope that European policymakers return well rested from their August break. They will need all the energy and dedication they can muster to pivot quickly from Europeís forced normality to a more durable strategy for recovery, or at least to stop drivers of renewed prosperity from slipping farther away before they can be harnessed.
REUTERS/Ricardo MoraesJose Aldo of Brazil (R) fights with Jung Chan-sung of South Korea during the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), a professional mixed martial arts (MMA) competition, in Rio de Janeiro, August 3, 2013.Stocks sold off a bit today. But they continue to be very near Friday's all-time closing highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Facebook/Highlands Links Golf CourseHighland Links in Nova ScotiaFrom lush hilly terrain in Ireland to stunning oceanside courses in California, golfers travel the world to play at elite golf courses. We've created the ultimate bucket list for golfers. Some of these golf courses are famous for their rich history, while others offer breathtaking views and unique locations.  From Scotland's historic¬†Muirfield to the Dominican Republic's challenging Teeth of the Dog, here are the golf courses every golfer should play at in his or her lifetime.
REUTERS/Octavian CantilliSheila Shirah, 17, the 2011 Miss Silver Spurs, rides around the arena during a prayer at the start of the Silver Spurs Monster Bull rodeo event held at Osceola Heritage Park in Kissimmee, February 11, 2012.The Federal Reserve just released its July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey. For the most part, banks are either staying just as easy with their lending standards as they have been or they're becoming more easy. "Easier lending standards are usually associated with later employment growth," says UBS economist Maury Harris. From the report: ...In the July survey, domestic banks, on balance, reported having eased their lending standards and having experienced stronger demand in most loan categories over the past three months. This summary is based on the responses from 73 domestic banks and 22 U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks. Regarding loans to businesses, the July survey generally indicated that banks eased their lending policies for commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) and CRE loans and experienced stronger demand for such loans over the past three months.¬†¬†¬† In particular, a moderate fraction of domestic respondents reported having eased their standards on C&amp;I loans, and moderate to large net fractions of such respondents reportedly eased many terms on C&amp;I loans to firms of all sizes.3¬†¬† ¬†Most banks that eased their C&amp;I lending policies cited increased competition for such loans as an important reason for having done so. On net, respondents reported stronger demand for C&amp;I loans over the second quarter, although a few large banks indicated that demand had weakened.4¬†¬† ¬†A modest net fraction of foreign respondents indicated that they had eased standards on, and a moderate net fraction had experienced stronger demand for, C&amp;I loans in the second quarter. The survey results also indicated that banks eased standards and terms on, and saw increases in demand for, some categories of lending to households. Modest net fractions of respondents reported having eased standards on prime residential or nontraditional mortgage loans, and a large net fraction indicated that they had seen increased demand for prime mortgage loans. A moderate net fraction of respondents reported that they had eased standards on auto loans over the past three months, and small net fractions indicated that they had eased standards on credit card loans and other consumer loans. Demand for all three types of consumer loans asked about in the survey had reportedly strengthened, on balance, over the second quarter... Federal Reserve
GoogleGoogle just released a new tablet, the Nexus 7. BI's Steve Kovach says it's better than Apple's iPad Mini and $100 cheaper. In other words, it sounds exactly like the tablet I've been waiting for. I haven't bought Apple's iPad Mini because I have been annoyed by the price. Unlike the first generation iPad, and the subsidized iPhone, Apple's iPad Mini pricing has broken from recent Apple tradition of being sold at "the same or better" price than competitive gadgets. Instead, the iPad Mini is more expensive than the competition. And I don't like that. Apple's rise to become the most valuable company in the world has been fueled, in part, by the company's ability to produce the best products in the market and to sell them at the same or lower prices than the competition. Apple's premium iPhone, for example, quickly settled in at $200 with a contract, and, so far, no competitor has undercut that for a new high-end phone. Apple's iPad, meanwhile, was the lowest-priced and best premium tablet in the market for at least a year or two after it debuted, which allowed Apple to have the early tablet market almost to itself. Alas... In the tablet market, especially, Apple has now been undercut on price by Amazon, Google, and other tablet manufacturers. And when Apple finally introduced a new cheaper smaller tablet last year to remain competitive--the iPad Mini--Apple chose to price it at a significant premium to competitive products. At the time the Mini was launched, Apple was still able to argue that its small tablet was the best on the market, thus explaining if not justifying the higher price. But now, according to Steve Kovach, the iPad Mini is no longer the best small tablet on the market. And it costs $100 more than the better one. Apple's high prices and reduced (or eliminated) quality edge are probably one reason Apple's iPad sales actually shrank last quarter--a stunning fact given how fast the tablet market is growing. And the introduction of a new, much-cheaper, and arguably better tablet from a competitor isn't going to help that trend. But I'm still not going to run out and buy Google's new tablet, even though I kind of have a hankering for a small tablet. Why not? Two reasons: The Apple "ecosystem," in other words, is the primary reason I'm not buying the Google tablet. I don't want all that time I invested in learning how to use Apple products, and all that money my family invested in buying iTunes movies, to go to waste. That said, the power of Apple's ecosystem on my future purchase behavior is much less than it used to be. I have switched much of my online behavior to non-Apple services over the past couple of years (email, maps, calendar, photo-storage, Kindle), and it gets easier and easier to imagine switching the rest. So, honestly, if Apple continues to charge higher prices for less-great products, I don't know how much longer I'm going to stick it out on the platform. †And, in any event, I won't be buying the iPad Mini--an accessory luxury that, with an iPhone and MacBook Air, I don't really need--until Apple reduces the price.† SEE ALSO: What The Heck Happened To Apple's iPad Sales? Disclosure: I own Apple's stock.
REUTERSSAN FRANCISCO (AP) ‚Äî Companies prospecting for oil off California's coast have used hydraulic fracturing on at least a dozen occasions to force open cracks beneath the seabed, and now regulators are investigating whether the practice should require a separate permit and be subject to stricter environmental review. While debate has raged in the U.S. over fracking on land, prompting efforts to ban or severely restrict it, offshore fracking has occurred with little attention in sensitive coastal waters where for decades new oil leases have been prohibited. Hundreds of pages of federal documents released by the government to The Associated Press and advocacy groups through the Freedom of Information Act show regulators have permitted fracking in the Pacific Ocean at least 12 times since the late 1990s, and have recently approved a new project. The targets are the vast oil fields in the Santa Barbara Channel, site of a 1969 spill that spewed more than 3 million gallons of crude oil into the ocean, spoiled miles of beaches and killed thousands of birds and other wildlife. The disaster prompted a moratorium on new drill leases and inspired federal clean water laws and the modern environmental movement. Companies are doing the offshore fracking ‚Äî which involves pumping hundreds of thousands of gallons of salt water, sand and chemicals into undersea shale and sand formations ‚Äî to stimulate old existing wells into new oil production. Federal regulators thus far have exempted the chemical fluids used in offshore fracking from the nation's clean water laws, allowing companies to release fracking fluid into the sea without filing a separate environmental impact report or statement looking at the possible effects. That exemption was affirmed this year by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, according to the internal emails reviewed by the AP. Fracking fluids can comprise hundreds of chemicals ‚Äî some known and others that aren't since they are protected as trade secrets. Some of these chemicals are toxins to fish larvae and crustaceans, bottom dwellers most at risk from drilling activities, according to government health disclosure documents detailing some of the fluids used off California's shore. Marine scientists, petroleum engineers and regulatory officials interviewed by the AP could point to no studies that have been performed on the effects of fracking fluids on the marine environment. Research regarding traditional offshore oil exploration has found that drilling fluids can cause reproductive harm to some marine creatures. "This is a significant data gap, and we need to know what the impacts are before offshore fracking becomes widespread," said Samantha Joye, a marine scientist at the University of Georgia who studies the effects of oil spills in the ocean environment. The EPA and the federal agency that oversees offshore drilling, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement or BSEE, conduct some routine inspections during fracking projects, but any spills or leaks are largely left to the oil companies to report. In a statement to the AP, the EPA defended its oversight of offshore fracking, saying its system ensures the practice does not pollute the environment in a way that would endanger human health. Oil companies must obtain permits for wastewater and storm water discharges from production platforms that "ensure all fluids used in the drilling and production process will not adversely impact water quality," the statement said. Oil companies also maintain that much of the fracking fluid is treated before being discharged into the sea. Tupper Hull, spokesman for the Western States Petroleum Association, said fracking in general is safe and has "never been associated with any risk or harm to the environment" in over six decades in California. California coastal regulators said they were unaware until recently that offshore fracking was even occurring, and are now asking oil companies proposing new offshore drilling projects if they will be fracking. Because the area of concern is located more than three miles (about 5 kilometers) off the state's shoreline, federal regulators have jurisdiction over these offshore exploration efforts. However, the state can reject a permit in federal waters if the work endangers water quality. "It wasn't on our radar before, and now it is," said Alison Dettmer, a deputy director at the California Coastal Commission. Government documents including permits and internal emails from the BSEE reveal that fracking off the shores of California is more widespread than previously known. While new oil leases are banned, companies can still drill from 23 grandfathered-in platforms in waters where endangered blue and humpback whales and other marine mammals often congregate. In March, a privately held oil and gas company received permission from the agency to frack some 10 miles (16 kilometers) off the Ventura County coast. The job by DCOR LLC involves using the existing wellbore of an old well to drill a new well. Three so-called "mini-fracks" will be done in an attempt to release oil locked within sand and rocks in the Upper Repetto formation. Only a month before the application was approved, however, an official with the BSEE voiced concerns about the company's proposed frack and whether the operation would discharge chemicals into the ocean. "We have an operator proposing to use 'hydraulic stimulation' (which has not been done very often here) and I'm trying to run through the list of potential concerns," Kenneth Seeley, the BSEE's regional environmental officer for the Pacific, wrote in a Feb. 12 email to colleagues. "The operator says their produced water is Superclean! but the way they responded to my questions kind of made me think this was worth following up on." BSEE officials approved DCOR's application on March 7. The agency told the AP that DCOR's job would use far less fracking fluid than an onshore operation. "For comparison, well stimulation offshore typically uses 2 percent of the liquids and 7 percent of the sand that is used routinely for onshore hydraulic fracturing," the BSEE said in a statement. Oil industry estimates show that at least half of the chemical-laced water used in fracking remains in the environment after an operation. Environmental groups say as much as 80 percent of the fluids can be left behind. The rest gets pumped back up to the oil platform, and is piped or barged back to shore for treatment. Companies can also pump the fluids into an old well reservoir to discard it. DCOR, which did not respond to requests for comment, is not the first company to try to tap more oil from California's offshore reserves, nor is the project the most extensive offshore frack here in recent years. In January 2010, oil and gas company Venoco Inc. set out to improve the production of one of its old wells with what federal drilling records show was the largest offshore fracking operation attempted in federal waters off California's coast. The target: the Monterey Shale, a vast formation that extends from California's Central Valley farmlands to offshore and could ultimately comprise two-thirds of the nation's shale oil reserves. Six different fracks were completed during the project, during which engineers funneled a mix of about 300,000 pounds of fracking fluids, sand and seawater 4,500 feet beneath the seabed, according to BSEE documents. Venoco's attempt only mildly increased production, according to the documents. Venoco declined to comment. Despite greenlighting offshore fracking projects for years, federal and state regulators now are trying to learn more about the extent of fracking in the Pacific even as officials and marine scientists scramble to weigh the environmental effects. In January, Jaron Ming, the Pacific regional director of the BSEE, told employees in an email that there had been heightened interest in offshore fracking from within the agency and the public. "For that reason, I am asking you to pay close attention to any (drilling applications) that we receive and let me know if you believe any of them would be considered a 'frac job.'" That same month, BSEE estimated in internal emails that only two such jobs had occurred off California in the past two decades. But weeks later, as the agency worked to respond to public requests about fracking offshore, emails show it had found 12 such instances of offshore fracking. BSEE said it cannot be sure just how often fracking has been allowed without going through every single well file. Brian Segee, a staff attorney at the Environmental Defense Center, said the uncertainty makes him skeptical about the actual number of offshore fracks. The Santa Barbara-based environmental law firm, which formed in the wake of the 1969 oil spill, is calling for a moratorium on future fracking in the Pacific until the potential environmental effects are studied. Most fracking efforts off California have yielded mixed results. The first time Venoco fracked offshore in the 1990s, it had limited success. Chevron's one try failed. Out of Nuevo Energy's nine attempts, only one was considered very successful, according to company and BSEE records. The practice has been more fruitful in the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, where it's more common and the porous nature of the geologic formation makes it easier to extract oil, according to regulators and oil industry experts. Still, oil companies surveyed by federal regulators said they haven't ruled out fracking projects in the Pacific in the future. As fracking technology evolves and companies seek to wring production from old offshore wells, drilling experts caution that strict safety precautions and planning are needed. Working in the open ocean, "you have to be a lot more careful to avoid any spillage," said Mukul Sharma, a professor of petroleum engineering at The University of Texas at Austin. David Pritchard, a Texas petroleum engineer who has been working in offshore drilling for 45 years, said offshore fracking "no doubt adds complexity and risk." One concern is that the high pressure fracking mixture in some jobs might break the rock seal around an old well bore, allowing oil to escape, added another expert, Tulane University petroleum engineering professor Eric Smith. "I'd say it (offshore fracking) is safe," Smith said, "but nothing's a sure thing in this world." ___ Follow Jason Dearen and Alicia Chang on Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/JHDearen and http://www.twitter.com/SciWriAlicia Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
The S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high on Friday. Meanwhile, estimates for U.S. GDP growth in 2013 have been falling for two and a half years. Bloomberg Chief Economist Michael McDonough tweeted a chart tracking the two measures since February 2011. It's quite the head-scratcher. To be clear, the U.S. stock market and U.S. economy aren't exposed to the same things. Perhaps the biggest difference is that U.S. stocks, as measured by the S&amp;P 500, generate roughly half of their business abroad. Also, stocks move based on expectations for growth and certainty about those expectations.¬† Sure, the near-term growth expectations have come down.¬† But uncertainty, as measured by the policy uncertainty index or the CBOE volatility index, are near their post-crisis lows. Regardless, the U.S. economy is the biggest source of business for the S&amp;P 500 companies. So, it's okay to be confused and perhaps frustrated by this chart. Bloomberg, Business Insider

Andrew H. Walker / Getty ImagesWarren Buffet with "Breaking Bad" star Aaron Paul at the premiere for the series final eight episodes.Warren Buffett is 82, a billionaire, and a huge fan of "Breaking Bad."†† The Berkshire Hathaway CEO showed up last week to the premiere of season 5's final eight episodes at Lincoln Center.†† While speaking with Buzzfeed, Buffett not only told them he's a big fan of the AMC series, but praised Bryan Cranston's chemistry-teacher-turned-meth-cook character Walter White. Buffet recalled making a sketch with "Breaking Bad" actors Cranston and Aaron Paul to be shown at a Berkshire Hathaway shareholder meeting this year and referred to Albuquerque's drug kingpin as "a great businessman," saying "heís my guy if I ever have to go toe-to-toe with anyone." We're not sure how closely Buffett pays attention to the show, but the proclaimed "great businessman" has personally killed at least two dozen men, poisoned a small child, lied his way to the top of the meth business, and is currently on the run under an alias. Remember Walt's previous business partner Mike Ehrmantraut (Jonathan Banks) once referred to the same guy as a ticking time bomb. 

It isn't often that a former central bank president feels the need to reassure a country that its economic problems are not the fault of one single man. This weekend, however, former Brazilian central bank president Arminio Fraga told the press that erstwhile billionaire tycoon Eike Batista's losses were not the reason for the country's stock market malaise. Batista himself, over a year ago the 7th richest man in the world, has lost billions from his commodities and logistics empire ó EBX ó and is now estimated to be worth only around $200 million, including debt. As of August 1st, the six companies under EBX's umbrella ó OGX, MPX, LLX, MMX, OSX and CCX ó have lost a combined $9.7 billion in 2013. All 300 publicly traded companies in Brazil have lost $203 billion in the same period. Three of Batista's companies ó OGX, LLX, and MMX ó are among the 10 biggest losers in the Ibovespa Sao Paolo Stock Exchange Index. So Fraga, a former fund manager for George Soros who was also an early investor in Batista's most battered business, oil and gas company OGX, just had to say it: ìOur problems are growth, lack of investments. Itís not Eike...I think Eike was one of the first entrepreneurs (in Brazil) to grow using the capital markets,î said Fraga, who just a few months ago stepped down as chairman of Brazilís sole stock-exchange operator, BM&amp;F Bovespa SA. Fraga is no longer invested in OGX, which is down almost 90% over the year. He blames Brazil's problems on its statist economic plan and the general economic slow down in China, which consumes a lot of Brazil's raw materials. Just as Fraga pulled back from his investment of OGX, Goldman Sachs just announced that it would pull back from its investment in Brazil, citing a weakening growth outlook for the country specifically in equities and mergers-and-acquisition deal volumes, according to Bloomberg. So it's not hard to see why, at this point, it's as if the entire country is losing faith in Batista ó a man that used to symbolize all the energy and vitality of a growing Brazil. This weekend, a number of investors prepared to file an insider trading lawsuit against him over his sale of OGX stock. The investors maintain that Batista's sale of† 56 million OGX shares between June 7 and June 13 was (as one put it) "clearly an act done in bad faith" ó† especially considering that in October Batista promised that he would buy $1 billion worth of OGX shares by April of next year. This has come to be known as Batista's put option. The group of investors is being lead by a Marcio Lobo, the same Rio de Janeiro lawyer that got an injunction against Batista so that he couldn't sell any OGX assets. From FT: ìOGX released about 55 regulatory filings giving information about the capacity of its wells, which in the end turned out to be mistaken,î said Mr Lobo, who also invested in OGX and had already tried to pursue legal action against it independently. Batista, once vocal on Twitter, has been silent since June 25th. Regular Brazilians are less so. This story has clearly captured their imaginations, and they've taken to social media to express a wide range of emotion, from hatred to admiration for the former billionaire. Brazilian celebrity news is even reporting that Batista is seeking help from a famous spiritual center, Casa do Mago, in Rio. If that's true, he's not alone in his soul searching (from WSJ): ìThe central bank has said it doesnít have a goal, but the market understands that it has a goal,î Mr Fraga said. ìIn practice, itís clear that it [the central bank] hasnít made a huge effort to meet a particular value for the currency..." All in all, pretty dark stuff.
REUTERS/Rebecca CookThe Detroit Free Press' Greg Gardner writes City of Detroit retirees will gather at city hall today to demand an apology from emergency manager Kevyn Orr after he called prior administrations "dumb, lazy, happy, and rich" in an interview with the Wall Street Journal's Allysia Finley. Orr was appointed by Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder in March to take control of the city's finances. Here was the full section from Finley's piece this weekend: Much of Detroit's dysfunction is also due to simple complacency. "For a long time the city was dumb, lazy, happy and rich," he explains. "Detroit has been the center of more change in the 20th century than I dare say virtually any other city, but that wealth allowed us to have a covenant [that held] if you had an eighth grade education, you'll get 30 years of a good job and a pension and great health care, but you don't have to worry about what's going to come." Seems pretty innocuous. But the retirees ó who sued to block Orr's Chapter 9 filing ó already have it out for him. As Freep columnist Tom Walsh put it, many Detroiters "distrustful and embarrassed that a governor is imposing a taskmaster on them." Gardner does note that other commentators like National Journal's Ron Fournier are also calling out Orr for the remark. Click here to read the full story on Freep.com ª
Americans are too busy to eat a bowl of cereal anymore, and food companies are freaking out.¬† Kyle Stock at Bloomberg Businessweek¬†points out the change, noting¬†that revenues at companies like General Mills, Post, and Kellogg are down this year.¬† Post and Kellogg have even gone as far as to lay off employees and close factories, according to Stock.¬† In addition to Americans being busy, they're also increasingly staying clear of carbs, gluten, and sugar. This hurts brands like Froot Loops and Frosted Flakes, according to Stock.¬† "Improving cereal sales will be 'an uphill battle,'" Stock writes, citing a report by Credit Suisse analysts.¬† While Americans eschew cereal, sales of portable breakfast offerings are on the rise.¬† Kellogg is responding by offering more healthy cereal bars and snacks.¬† "We recognize that sometimes consumers don‚Äôt have time for a bowl of cereal and milk,‚Äù Kellogg vice president Paul Norman said in an earnings call this week.
IMDB / CBSThe Big Bang TheoryOn Friday afternoon, CBS went dark for 2.9 million Time Warner Cable subscribers in New York, Los Angeles and Dallas. This came after the network and cable provider were unable to agree on retransmission fee terms. While this appears to be a lose-lose in the near-term, UBS analyst John Janedis thinks it's worse for Time Warner than it is for CBS. "Our view continues to be that consumers have more loyalty to the content rather than the company which is responsible for distribution and with contracts often running 5+ years, CBS can‚Äôt afford to take below market value given the inability to renegotiate terms," said Janedis in a research note today. Indeed, cable subscribers pay Time Warner, not CBS, for the content.¬† So, it's understandable why consumers would direct their frustrations to the cable provider. "Based on our estimates, we think the CBS Network going dark could cost CBS about $400K/day, including lost retrans revenue and a loss of adv dollars at both the network and the stations," said Janedis who reiterates his Buy-rating on the stock. "Bottom line: Every two weeks of being dark equals ~$0.01/share." Janedis doesn't offer an estimate for the cost to Time Warner Cable. But the bottom line is that CBS shareholders may be able to wait this thing out. What about CBS fans? "If history is a guide, this should be resolved in less than two weeks," said Janedis.

Bloomberg TVRichard B. Cohen has $11.2 billion, but you won't find him on any international wealth ranking. Bloomberg has a new profile of Cohen, the hyper-private chairman of C&amp;S Wholesale Grocers, described as "the biggest company no one has ever heard of." Fittingly, Cohen was not interviewed for the piece (he hasn't done an interview in a decade). The epitome of stealth, he even keeps the company's delivery trucks unmarked. From Bloomberg: The 61-year-old -- who goes by ‚ÄúRick‚Äù -- has transformed C&amp;S into the world‚Äôs largest grocery wholesaler since taking the helm of the business in 1989, making him one of the 100 richest people in the world and the wealthiest man in¬†New England¬†after Connecticut hedge-fund manager Raymond T. Dalio, according to the¬†Bloomberg Billionaires Index. The company had sales of $21.7 billion in 2012, distributing more than 95,000 products to 4,000 supermarkets from¬†Maineto¬†Hawaii. Cohen is the business‚Äô sole owner, Granger said. He has a net worth of $11.2 billion, according to the Bloomberg index. So what is the billionaire like (other than private)? He's "smart, analytic and¬†quantitatively driven" according to a Harvard professor who had written a case study on the company. Read the full report at Bloomberg&gt;
Retuers/David GrayThe New Zealand dollar (NZD) got slammed today, falling 1% against the U.S. dollar to $0.7754. The NZD took a hit on headlines that China was banning milk imports from New Zealand after a botulism scare. Botulism refers to a paralytic illness caused by a nerve toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum. New Zealand dairy producer Fonterra reported over the weekend that a strain of Clostridium, a bacterium that could cause botulism, was found in some of its milk products. Russia also enforced a temporary ban on dairy imports from New Zealand. China accounts for 25% of demand for New Zealand's milk. In fact, China's milk powder imports from New Zealand climbed 34.3% year-over-year in the first half of 2013. This accounted for 83.3% of China's total milk powder imports. This shows why a botulism scare is huge not just for China but New Zealand as well. "If there is any short-term trade impact it will happen at the low of export season and let‚Äôs also not forget dairy products can be stored for export at a later data, so any short-term economic impact could well be modest," according to Robert Savage at FX Concepts. "Fonterra, which accounts for about a third of the global trade in dairy products and collects milk from 10,500 New Zealand farmers, has said it expects dairy demand in China to double by 2020. Clearly, this growth rate will be at risk and something for consideration." Fonterra's CEO has apologized for the scare and is working with its regulatory authority to ensure that regulators at home and abroad are kept updated on the quality issue surrounding three batches of whey protein concentrate. The New Zealand dollar which is already considered to by some experts to be overvalued is now at risk of a sell-off if its dairy trade is impacted further. It is also at risk if the Aussie dollar sees a further move below $0.87 after the Reserve Bank of Australia's rate decision tomorrow, writes Savage. Here's a look at how the New Zealand dollar traded: Bloomberg Here's a graphic from Reuters on New Zealand's dairy industry. Reuters
In fact just in the past few weeks the QE3-induced reserve growth exceeded that of QE2, as the total bank reserves (commercial banks' deposits with the Federal Reserve banks) move above $2 trillion (and the US monetary base moves above $3.2 trillion). The key to these programs' effectiveness is their impact on credit growth. Here is the comparison. One could presumably argue that QE2 resulted in stemming the credit contraction taking place in 2010. It's hard to make that argument for QE3. Given this result, why would any central bank want to continue on its current path? Some would argue it is to keep longer term interest rates low. But the 30-year mortgage rate is now some 60+ basis points higher than it was when QE3 was announced. So if it's not credit growth or interest rates, what is the mechanism to transmit this "unconventional" monetary policy into the economy and job growth? ¬†Sober Look You hear economists talk about how the Fed should continue buying securities at the current pace because the US economic growth remains tepid. But isn't this simply doing the same thing (now for a year) and expecting different results?
HONG KONG (AP) ó The London Metal Exchange and Goldman Sachs are being sued in a U.S. court over alleged anti-competitive and monopolistic behavior in aluminum storage. The metal exchange will fight the class-action lawsuit, which its management believes is without merit, the LME's owner, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd., said in a statement late Sunday. Wall Street banks are facing increased scrutiny of their involvement in businesses that store and transport commodities such as oil and aluminum. The LME and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are named as co-defendants in the suit alleging "anti-competitive and monopolistic behavior in the warehousing market in connection with aluminum prices." The lawsuit was filed Aug. 1 by lead plaintiff Superior Extrusion Inc., a maker of aluminum tubing and beams, in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. A growing number of buyers have complained about rising metal prices stemming from long waiting times at warehouses. To address those concerns, Goldman said last week that it is taking measures to make more aluminum immediately available to customers at its metal storage business, Metro International Trade Services, which operates under LME regulations. The bank pointed out last week that "the overall delivered price of aluminum is down nearly 40 percent since its 2006 peak levels." Hong Kong Exchanges, which operates the southern Chinese city's stock exchange, last year bought the LME, which approves and licenses a network of more than 700 metal storage facilities in 40 locations across the U.S., Europe and Asia. Last month a U.S. Senate committee held a hearing into whether banks should be allowed to control power plants, warehouses and oil refineries. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. said last week that the possibility of new regulations was a factor behind its decision to consider selling some of its physical commodities business, which includes metals and energy. It has agreed to pay $410 million to settle accusations by U.S. regulators that it manipulated electricity prices. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
flickr/Gerard StolkOne of the big stories in July was the improvement in European economic data. Last week, eurozone PMI surveys suggested that the euro area manufacturing sector stopped contracting and began expanding in last month. The latest readings have some investors hopeful that the euro area economy is finally beginning to turn around after years of stagnation and recession. In a note to clients this morning, Oppenheimer chief market strategist John Stoltzfus argues that "investing in Europe today might be parallel to investing stateside just a few years ago ahead of the big run-up." Stoltzfus writes (emphasis added): Europe is increasingly on investors‚Äô minds as the IMF and others look for stabilization and the region‚Äôs economic¬†recovery to begin in this year‚Äôs second half. Stateside investors are beginning to consider investments in Europe and elsewhere ex-U.S. for diversification once again as multiples expand stateside and hints that conditions are beginning to improve outside of the U.S.,¬†particularly in the developed European markets, emanate. It appears to us that investing in Europe today might be parallel to investing stateside just a few years ago ahead of the big run-up. European markets as represented by the Stoxx 600 have moved 28.4% in the past 12 months through Friday translated into U.S .dollars. "Since the start of the year, that market has moved higher by 9.41% in U.S. dollar terms potentially offering further¬†upside as the regional economy and the economies of the region‚Äôs export customers improve," says Stoltzfus. "Stay tuned."
Reuters/ Jack CusanoThe epic battle of hedge fund titans has intensified. †It's now Ackman vs. Soros. On Friday, Bill Ackman filed a complaint with the SEC against George Soros' hedge fund and other unidentified co-conspirators alleging that they broke insider trading laws, according to the New York Post's Michelle Celarier. Last week, CNBC's Scott Wapner reported that Soros Fund Management had snapped up a large position in Herbalife, which is said to be one of the fund's top three holdings. †The stock surged on the news. While the attention has been specifically on George Soros, the portfolio manager who lead the Herbalife investment at Soros Fund Management has been identified as Paul Sohn. According to the Post's report, Pershing Square was told that Sohn was telling other fund managers at "idea meetings" over the past month that Soros was amassing a Herbalife stake and that Soros would soon report a 5% stake in the company. Herbalife, multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products, is the stock that Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, is famously shorting. † Late last year, Ackman publicly declared that he's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife with a price target of $0.†Ackman believes the company is a "pyramid scheme" and that regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will be induced to investigate it.† Even though the stock has surged more than 50% since Ackman confirmed his short position, he said he has not covered a single share.† Not everyone has agreed with Ackman's short and it has become the focal point of an epic clash of hedge fund billionaires.† Rival fund manager Daniel Loeb of Third Point, who used to be Ackman's friend, purchased†a sizeable Herbalife position. †He exited his stake in the second quarter for a profit.† Ackman's arch-nemesis Carl Icahn snapped up a massive stake in the company. †Icahn said he thinks Ackman will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes." † A number of smaller fund managers have piled on, too. † The most recent titan to join this epic clash has been Soros.† That has got to be an interesting elevator ride because Ackman and Soros both work in the same building at 888 Seventh Avenue.†
ISMISM's monthly non-manufacturing report is out. The headline index rose to 56.0 in July from 52.2 in June, coming in well above the consensus estimate of 53.1. The business activity/production sub-index surged to 60.4 in July from 51.7 in June. The new orders index advanced to 57.7 from 50.8. The employment sub-index fell to 53.2 from 54.7, suggesting a robust but slowing pace of hiring. At right is a breakdown of the various sub-indices contained in the report. Below is what respondents to the survey from various industries were saying in July: Click here for the full release ¬ª
Last week, when the Fabrice "Fabulous Fab" Tourre verdict came out, Bloomberg News sent out an erroneous headline and Tweet saying the former Goldman Sachs employee had won his SEC civil case.¬† Twitter A correction came out shortly after saying that Tourre was actually found liable on six of the seven charges.¬† That erroneous Tweet/headline appears to have cost an editor his job. According to¬†the New York Post's Keith Kelly and Mark DeCambre, the headline was sent out by Bloomberg editor John Pickering.¬† Pickering, who spent around 20 years at the financial media giant, lost his job the next day because of the incorrect headline, reports the Post.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingBerkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett pauses during a bridge game in Omaha May 5, 2013 the day after the company's annual meeting.Last week was incredibly busy for economic events, and it ended with a disappointing jobs report and the stock market closing at an all-time high. This week will be far less busy. Perhaps this is a good time for investors to look over the economic data and consider the positioning of their portfolios. One thing's for sure: It has been paying off to be a long-term bull. On Friday, we learned that Berkshire Hathaway's Q2 financial results were better than expected. The results included $390 million in unrealized gains on Warren Buffett's massive long-term derivative bet on the global stock markets. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Citi's Tobias Levkovich is concerned about a worrisome trend developing in the stock market: "Intra-stock correlation of the top 50 market cap names has plunged in the past month. Investors look to be at risk given the collapse of intra-stock correlation from 66% at the end of June to just 18% at the month's end in July which suggests that investors might be overly focused on stock picking and have begun to ignore broader influences such as Fed policy, market valuation, European growth trends, economic surprise indices and the like. Very high readings on intra-stock correlation tend to generate an intriguing buy signal as seen in September 2011, while low levels suggest a degree of complacency that puts fund managers at risk for a correction."
Ben Bernanke's term as Chairman of the Federal Reserve ends this year, and many expect him to retire. Currently, Vice Chair Janet Yellen is the favorite to take the vacated seat. And the controversial former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers is another frontrunner. Yellen is highly respected, and she's also considered the most accurate forecaster at the Fed. "See her musings ‚Ä¶at those FOMC meetings when she took on her colleagues over the housing bubble (the one that Greenspan and Bernanke never saw) ‚Äî plus she absolutely nailed the recession call in late 2007, a time when almost every economist on Wall Street was publishing about 'soft landings'," said David Rosenberg. While everyone attempts to handicap the odds of who'll be leading the Fed, we have to consider what a Summers Fed Chair could mean for the composition of the Fed.  Cumberland Advisors' David Kotok pondered the matter in a recent post (emphasis added): ...The debate here is centered on whether Summers has political baggage. He certainly does. Does his loyalty to Obama trump his political baggage? It may. Did his questionable comments, as President of Harvard, regarding female aptitude in math and science hurt him? They might have. Is the option of a appointing a woman of Janet Yellen's caliber as Fed Chair a factor that might weigh heavily in this selection by President Obama? It might. Another speculative issue here is what happens if Summers becomes chair, is confirmed by the US Senate, and takes office as Fed Chairman in 2014. Does Yellen then leave the board? If she does, what does her absence do to alter the composition of the Fed board? Remember, she is currently the Vice Chair, serving an extended term. Will she stay if Summers is appointed Chair? All these are questions without answers. Looking at the rest of the board, one can see the possibility of substantial change in the Fed board within one year, say, if Ben Bernanke is replaced by Lawrence Summers, Janet Yellen leaves because she was not selected, and Sarah Bloom Raskin moves to the Treasury. Elizabeth Duke has already indicated she is leaving, and Jerome Powell‚Äôs term ends in 2014. The Fed board‚Äôs current composition of seven experienced members could be reduced to Jeremy Stein, Daniel Tarullo, and five new people.... Indeed, it's one thing to not have Yellen as the Fed Chair. It's another to not have Yellen at the Fed altogether.
China's official services sector purchasing managers index climbed to 54.1 in July from 53.9 in June. The unofficial HSBC China Services Business Activity Index came in at 51.3 in July, unchanged from June. Any number above 50.0 signals expansion. And this is a welcome development with many other Chinese economic indicators showing deterioration, which had given some economists concern that China would experience a hard landing. "Chinaís service sector has stabilised at a relatively low level of growth," said HSBC's Hongbin Qu. "But the profit margin continued to be squeezed given the divergence between input prices and prices charged indices. Without a sustained improvement of demand, services growth is likely to remain lackluster, putting downside pressures to employment growth." Combined with the deteriorating manufacturing numbers, the HSBC Composite Output Index slipped to 49.5 from 49.8 in June.
REUTERS/Toby Melville Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
Markit"The UK service sector expanded at its quickest pace for over six-and-a-half years in July as new business continued to rise strongly amid evidence of an improvement in market conditions," said the analysts at Markit. "The strong gain in new work placed pressure on capacity, leading to a marked increase in backlogs of work and encouraged solid payroll growth." According to Markit, the UK's business activity index jumped to 60.2 in July from 56.9 in June. This is the highest reading since December 2006. Here are the key points from Markit's report: "The services sector stormed to a six year high in July, registering levels of performance not seen since before the financial crisis," said David Noble, CEO of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply. "Combined with the manufacturing and construction figures, this is the clearest sign yet that the UK economy is experiencing a broad based economic recovery and has the momentum to deliver continued growth."
It happened again last Thursday, August 1. The M-PMI was remarkably strong, jumping from 50.9 in June to 55.4 in July. Its major components all surged as well, with new orders rising from 51.9 to 58.3, production from 53.4 to 65.0, and employment from 48.7 to 54.4. These data certainly support our ‚ÄúSecond Recovery‚Äù scenario with economic growth led by housing and autos. They also support the view expressed in Wednesday‚Äôs FOMC statement that while economic growth was ‚Äúmodest‚Äù (down from ‚Äúmoderate‚Äù) during the first half of the year, it should pick up during the second half. Last Thursday‚Äôs drop in initial unemployment claims to 326,000, the lowest since January 2008, also supports the more upbeat outlook for the economy. The four-week average remains at a cyclical low and is a good leading indicator of the unemployment rate, which fell to 7.4% in July. That‚Äôs the good news. The bad news is that Friday‚Äôs employment report was among the weakest of the year. Let‚Äôs review: (1) Lots of weak numbers. Payrolls rose 162,000 during July, below the 192,400 average from January-July. The previous two months were revised downwards. More significantly, aggregate hours worked fell 0.1%, and average hourly earnings also declined 0.1%, suggesting that lots of the new jobs are part-time ones with low wages. (2) Not enough full-time jobs. July‚Äôs household employment survey shows that part-time jobs rose 174,000, while full-time ones increased 92,000. Since the start of the year, part-time employment is up 731,000, while full-time has risen 222,000. The data show that since the record-high peak in employment during November 2007, full-time jobs are still down 5.8 million, while part-time jobs are up 3.5 million to a record high. The biggest losers of full-time jobs since November 2007 have been 25- to 54-year olds, with a loss of 7.7 million. Over this same period, this group has gained only 864,000 part-time jobs. (3) Mixed readings on wages and salaries. Our YRI Earned Income Proxy--which is the product of aggregate hours worked and average hourly earnings in the private sector--fell 0.2% during July. That‚Äôs bad news for July‚Äôs wages and salaries in personal income, since it is highly correlated with this series for the private sector. On the other hand, inflation-adjusted wages and salaries in personal income managed to grow at a 3.4% (saar) pace during the second quarter. ¬†Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Spring, Summer, &amp; Fall. (1) Old adage getting old: May is just another month. (2) Aging bull still raging. (3) Our mantra: Four more years! (4) Julys and Augusts can be big winners. (5) Blue skies for our Blue Angels. (6) Rule of 20 P/Es at 17-19. (7) September can be a big loser. (8) Lots of stuff hitting the fan in the fall. (9) Another big up day at the start of the month. (10) M-PMI confirms ‚ÄúSecond Recovery‚Äù scenario in US. (11) Soft patch in July‚Äôs labor indicators. (12) ‚ÄúBlue Jasmine‚Äù (+). (More for subscribers.)
Markets are up early in the European trading session. England's FTSE 100 is up 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.2%. Germany's DAX is up 0.2%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.4%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.1%. Earlier today, we learned that the composite Eurozone PMI climbed to 50.5 in July, up from 48.7 in June. Any reading above 50.0 signals expansion, and this is the first time the number has been above 50.0 since January 2012. Meanwhile, U.S. stock market futures are flat. This comes after the U.S. stock markets closed at all-time highs on Friday.
New purchasing managers index (PMI) numbers out of the Eurozone confirm a recent string of data that show that the debt-laden economy is in a recovery. The final Eurozone composite output index published by Markit climbed to 50.5 in July, up from 48.7. Any reading above 50.0 signals expansion, and this is the first time the number has been above 50.0 since January 2012. "The final Output Index reading of 50.5 confirms a welcome return to growth for the Eurozone economy at the start of the third quarter, raising hopes that the region can finally claw its way out of its longest-running recession," said Markit's Rob Dobson. "Granted, the euro area has experienced false dawns before, but the improvements in confidence and other forward-looking indicators warrant at least some optimism for the outlook this time around. Germany posted a return to expansion in July, while the downturns in the other big-four economies all eased. ‚ÄúManufacturing is leading the way out of contraction, with some nations benefitting from improved export demand. The real sparks which will hopefully ignite the recovery are the increasing signs of stabilisation in domestic markets. This not only aided manufacturers, but also pulled the service sector right back to the cusp of recovery. ‚ÄúThe labour market remains the main bugbear of the eurozone, as rising joblessness hurts growth and raises political and social tensions. But even here there was some better news, with the rate of job cutting easing to a 16-month low. With price pressures also relatively contained, the ECB will maintain its confidence that there are brighter skies on the horizon.‚Äù
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonCustomers talk to a sales assistant as they shop for milk powder in front of shelves displaying imported baby products at a supermarket in Beijing, August 5, 2013.BEIJING (Reuters) - New Zealand's Fonterra apologized on Monday for a milk powder contamination scare in China that has raised safety concerns that threaten New Zealand's $9 billion annual dairy trade and Fonterra's own business in a top market. Fonterra, the world's biggest dairy exporter, said over the weekend that it had found bacteria in some products that could cause botulism. It said contaminated whey protein concentrate had been exported to China, Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and Saudi Arabia and used in products including infant milk powder and sports drinks. At a media briefing in Beijing after hurriedly flying to deal with the fallout in one of its largest markets, Fonterra's chief executive, Theo Spierings, said food safety was the company's top priority. "We really regret the distress and anxiety which this issue could have caused," he said. "We totally understand there is concern by parents and other consumers around the world. Parents have the right to know that infant nutrition and other dairy products are harmless and safe." The company was not facing a ban on its products in China, only restrictions on whey protein concentrate, he said, adding that 38 metric tons of whey protein concentrate were contaminated, of which 18 metric tons were used in its own factories in Australia and New Zealand to produce milk formula for two customers. In China, Spierings said that products from two companies, Coca-Cola Co and Chinese food firm Wahaha, are safe because any bacteria would be killed during processing. Protein drinks made by Auckland-based Vitaco Health Group Ltd, another Fonterra customer, were also unaffected for the same reason. A third company in China, Dumex Baby Food Co Ltd, a subsidiary of France's Danone, has told Fonterra that 12 batches could have been affected, he said. Half have been recalled as a precautionary measure and the other half remain in factories. "None of the products tested by Dumex in China have reported problems," Spierings said. "There have been no customer complaints." Products exported to China under the Karicare brand by another Danone subsidiary, Nutricia, do not contain the contaminated whey protein concentrate, he said. Fonterra is a major supplier of bulk milk powder products used in infant formula in China but it had stayed out of the branded space after Chinese dairy company Sanlu, in which it had held a large stake, was found to have added melamine - often used in plastics - to bulk up formulas in 2008. Spierings said the latest problem originated in a pipe in an factory in New Zealand that was seldom used, so a normal cleaning was not sufficient to sanitize it. Fonterra discovered in March that some whey protein concentrate, produced and sold to customers in May 2012, was contaminated. It immediately began testing, but as most of the bacteria's strains are benign, the company did not find the harmful strain until July. Customers were informed on July 31, Spierings said. "The supply chain for infant nutrition powder takes a long time with many steps," he said. Initial tests in 2012 did not uncover the harmful bacteria, Spierings said, but a more thorough round of testing in March did. The affected plant was closed for cleaning after the possibility of a problem was discovered, Spierings said. He said the problem was isolated to that factory, and he was confident all contaminated products had been found. China has restricted New Zealand imports of whey products, but Spierings said he expected the curbs will be lifted as soon as the company furnishes a detailed explanation of what went wrong to Chinese regulators early this week. The majority of the affected products have already been contained, he said, and the problem will be resolved within two days after all contaminated products have been recalled. (Reporting by Megha Rajagopalan; Editing by Chris Gallagher)
