REUTERS/StringerPeople play with pigeons at a park in Wuhan, Hubei province, April 10, 2013.Any way you look at it, the two Chinese manufacturing reports we just got were not great. The official China manufacturing PMI index fell to 50.1 in June from 50.8 in May.  This was right in line with expectations, but nevertheless reflects a sector that is just barely growing. The unofficial HSBC PMI index fell to a 9-month low of 48.2.  This sub-50 reading signals contraction. While worries about China's economy had been lingering for quite a while, it was only in recent weeks that interbank lending rates spiked sparking fears of a liquidity crunch in the world's second largest economy. But it would be a mistake to go as far as to think that China was doomed for a hard economic landing.  Here's Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu: ...The 50.1 PMI reading in June could also help convince policymakers to end the self-inflicted interbank liquidity crunch as soon as possible. A key question is whether we should consider lowering our GDP growth forecasts (currently 7.6% for both 2013 and 2014; 7.7%, 7.6% and 7.6% for 2Q, 3Q and 4Q in 2013). At the moment, we do see more downside risks then before, but a downward revision is not justified yet for three reasons. First, the PBoC has already committed to ending the interbank liquidity squeeze and the State Council has come out asking for growth stability. Second, we expect the deleveraging of small banks in coming months to have a limited impact on system-wide credit supply as big banks could fill the gap. Third, pessimistic sentiment during the PMI survey around 20 June could also impact the survey results even the real economy could have been better. Much of Lu's optimism hinges on the ability of China's leaders to navigate the economy in the right direction.  Indeed, many have argued that the reason why rates are rising is because China wants to cool Chinese lending.  Is it cool enough?
Pandora shares improved 26.8% last week despite blasts from Pink Floyd and the lead singer of Cracker over how much the company pays songwriters. Here's the chart: Yahoo On Tuesday, the company announced it now has more than 2.5 million drivers listening to music through Pandora thanks to partnerships with "23 major automotive brands and 8 aftermarket manufacturers." The company now estimates that fully one-third of all new cars sold in 2013 in the US will have Pandora installed, including over 100 vehicle models made available from Acura, BMW, Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, Ford, GMC, Honda, Hyundai, Lexus, Lincoln, Mazda, Mercedes-Benz, MINI, Nissan, Scion, Suzuki and Toyota. Pandora listeners can also look forward to future integrations in Dodge, Infiniti, Jeep, Kia and Ram vehicles. The next day, the stock gained as much as 8.3% after the stock was raised to 'Outperform' from 'Market Perform' at Cowen with a 12-month target price of $22.00, according to Seeking Alpha. An interesting week â€” this cat's something we can't explain.
MarkitThe unofficial China HSBC manufacturing PMI report for June 2013 is out. The headline number fell to a 9-month low of 48.2 from 49.2 in May. This was a hair below economists' forecast for 48.3. Any reading below 50 signals contraction. Here are the key points from Markit: "Falling orders and rising inventories added pressure to Chinese manufacturers in June," said HSBC's Hongbin Qu. "And the recent cash crunch in the interbank market is likely to slow expansion of off-balance sheet lending, further exacerbating funding conditions for SMEs. As Beijing refrains from using stimulus, the ongoing growth slowdown is likely to continue in the coming months." Earlier today, we learned that the official NBS China manufacturing PMI fell to 50.1 from 50.8 in May. The official number is more exposed to the larger, state owned enterprises, which tend to have an easier time accessing credit. Indeed, interest rates have been on the rise in China. This is making it harder to operate as a small or medium-sized enterprise (SME) in the country.
REUTERS/David GrayChina's National Bureau of Statistics will release its June manufacturing PMI report. The headline number crossed Bloomberg at 8:59 p.m. ET. The headline number fell to 50.1 from 50.8 in May. This was right in line with expectations. Any reading below 50 signals contraction, so this deteriorating number reflects just marginal expansion. China is the world's second largest economy and one of the remaining engines of global growth. Here is a breakdown of the last two month's PMI reports: Supplier delivery times    Business Activity Expectation 50.3 54.1 50.8 56.3 Earlier today, we learned that South Korean exports unexpectedly contracted in June. Korea is facing its own challenges, especially as its currency strengthens substantially against the Japanese yen. Still, its exports are hugely exposed to mainland Asia, and is therefore sensitive to demand out of China. All of this comes as interest rates rise in China, signaling financial stress.  For the most part, China and its central bank has been standing by quietly.
Flickr / St StevJapan's Nikkei 225 is up about 0.6%, but Australia's S&amp;P 200/ASX is down -0.9% as the market digests a mixed set of data released Sunday evening. Japan's Tankan manufacturing survey index moved into optimistic territory as the print of 4 beat estimates of 3. Q1's figure was -8. But South Korean export data unexpectedly fell -0.9% YOY in June. Everyone will now turn to Chinese PMI, which will be published at 9 p.m. EDT. Watch out for the report here.Â 
Korea Customs Service, CEIC, SG Cross Asset Research/EconomicsThe June South Korean trade data is out. Exports unexpectedly fell 0.9% year-over-year. Economists were looking for a modest 0.1% year-over-year increase. This could be an ominous sign of things to come as we stand by for a slew of economic data coming up. Economists across Wall Street dub South Korean exports as the global economic canary in the coal mine. Korean trade dataÂ usually comes before the first trading session of the month in Asia, which makes it the first of the world's major economic indicators to be released. Since the yen-devaluing era of Abenomics began, Korean exports have been more volatile due to currency swings.
AP Photo/Koji SasaharaJapan just released the results of its Q2 Tankan Survey. This report measures sentiment among Japan's large manufacturers. The headline number came in at 4, which was a bit higher than the 3 expected by economists. This was a nice improvement from the  Q1 reading of -8. The Tankan Q3 outlook index surged to 10. This was well ahead of the 7 reading expected. For years, Japan's economy has been struggling to grow.  The country's prime minister Shinzo Abe and central bank governor Kuroda have committed to stimulate the economy through ultra-easy monetary policy. This report is confirmation that something is going right.
AiGAustralia's June manufacturing PMI numbers are out. The headline number jumped to 49.6 from 43.8 in May. This is good news. "June 2013 saw the highest level for the Australian PMI since June 2011, which was the last time the Index moved above 50 points," noted the Australia Industry Group. The Australian economy has been under pressure as its key export markets — primarily China — have been slowing down. "Exports continue to struggle, with the exports sub-index only partially recovering from its recent record lows," said AiG. "At just 30.3 points, the exports sub-index continues to signal extremely tough exporting conditions, despite the fall in the Australian dollar." "Make no mistake - the Australian tide is going to be heading way out as China is about to have what our economist Wei Yao described as its 'Minsky moment', or in layman's terms, its day of reckoning!" warned Societe Generale strategist Albert Edwards. Here's a breakdown of the sub-indices: AiG
Jason Reed/ReutersMorgan Stanley's Neil McLeish and Jason Draho write that the Fed's tapering talk has triggered a "mid-cycle correction" that's in an advanced stage, but probably not over. What's a mid-cycle correction? Mid-cycle corrections are typically driven by one of two things, either a normalization of monetary policy or a large systemic event. This one falls into the former camp. While we realize that the Fed is not tightening policy, but merely easing less aggressively, this effectively amounts to a normalization of monetary policy that in past cycles would have been equivalent to actually raising the policy rate. Unfortunately, this normalization is arriving earlier than investors expected and certainly earlier than implied by their positioning in May, This correction has been an unusual one, they write: usually bonds outperform. The ‘normal’ rise in risk aversion associated with mid-cycle policy normalization was exacerbated in this cycle by the combination of huge secular growth in global fixed income markets over the last decade and the post-crisis shrinkage in dealer balance sheets. This is why credit-related product underperformed both equity and government bond markets in the current sell-off, the opposite of the normal mid-cycle correction playbook.  So how far along are we? Among the previous-eight S&amp;P corrections, only two lasted more than 100 days. We're barely at 30: Morgan Stanley Conclusion: It is possible that the correction is already finished, but our base case is to expect additional volatility as we move into the third quarter.  
Citi recently declared electronic cigarettes to be one of the 10 disruptive technologies that are changing the world. Murray Kessler, CEO of Lorillard Tobacco was on the New York Stock Exchange floor on Friday.Â  CNBC's Carl Quintanilla recorded this Vine of Kessler taking a puff of one of his company's Blu e-cigs. Is this the future of smoking indoors? From @carlquintanilla: The CEO of Lorillard lights up an e-cig on the @CNBC set. https://t.co/929oqLQHaz
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidDavid Einhorn speaks at the Sohn Investment Conference in New York, May 8, 2013. Einhorn, president of $8.8 billion hedge fund Greenlight Capital, said Wednesday that Oil States International is a high-quality business relative to competitors. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Investors in David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital Management's offshore gold fund were down 11.8 percent in June, bringing their year-to-date losses in the fund to 20 percent, two sources close to the matter said on Sunday. Einhorn, one of the most widely followed hedge fund managers and known for warning about Lehman Brothers' precarious finances before it collapsed, has also seen his flagship $8 billion Greenlight Capital fund under recent pressure though it is still up for the year. In June, Greenlight's flagship portfolio was down 1.1 percent but still up net 7.4 percent year to date, according to one of the sources. Einhorn, largely known for going both long and short on stocks, formed the Greenlight gold fund to include the same investment strategy as the main fund but offers a share class backed by physical gold. The gold fund, with a minimum investment of $1 million, had $929 million under management and 266 investors as of March, according to a recent regulatory filing. The sources said the fund's dollar-denominated class represents a "majority" of the gold fund and is up 7.1 percent for the year. The remainder is in the gold-denominated class, which is down 11.8 percent in June alone and 20 percent so far this year. That's consistent with the sector's plunge this year. The gold-denominated fund gives Greenlight investors exposure to gold through the fund's investments, then reprices them in gold as opposed to U.S. dollars. Gold, which fell below $1,200 an ounce on Thursday for the first time in three years, posted its largest quarterly loss in at least 45 years amid fears the U.S. Federal Reserve may wind down its stimulus program. After Friday's rally of 2.3 percent, gold is still 23 percent lower for the second quarter, its biggest decline since at least 1968, according to Reuters data. Einhorn has said he prefers investing in gold bars, as opposed to the popular gold exchange-traded fund, SPDRGold Shares &lt;GLD.P&gt;, partly to have better control over his investment and keep a lid on trading expenses. In 2009, Einhorn said at the annual Value Investing Congress that he was holding gold as a hedge for what he described as unsound U.S. policies. "If monetary and fiscal policies go awry," investors should buy physical gold and gold stocks, he said at time. "Gold does well when monetary and fiscal policies are poor and does poorly when they are sensible." This March, a month before the big April swoon in gold prices, the Greenlight Gold fund completed a financing deal with HSBC for an unspecified sum, according to a financing statement. The fund also has a financing agreement with Goldman Sachs. Einhorn's dedicated gold fund will not be the only portfolio in the $2.2 trillion hedge fund industry that got burned in June from an investment in precious metals. In April, a dedicated gold fund managed by John Paulson was down about 27 percent, bringing the year-to-date decline at 47 percent. Soon after, Paulson, who is the largest investor in the fund, limited the release of performance figures for his gold fund, worried it was getting too much attention in the media. Earlier this year, the Paulson gold fund had about $700 million in assets. Paulson also invests in gold miners and in the gold ETF for his Advantage funds, which have about $5 billion in assets. Einhorn's flagship fund also invests in gold. Earlier this year, the manager listed gold as one of the five largest positions in the fund. Reuters previously reported that Einhorn stores some of his gold in a secure facility in Queens, New York. Dan Loeb's $12 billion Third Point firm also had a sizable position in physical gold in his portfolios but people familiar with the matter said he exited the positions in the spring. An investor with Loeb who did not want to be identified said the Third Point Partners fund fell 1.7 percent in June, but was still up 13.2 percent for the year. (Additional reporting by Matthew Goldstein; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)
bitzcelt / FlickrThere are still a couple more hours left of the weekend, but the clock is ticking. Kit Juckes, a currency analyst at Societe Generale, warns of what's about to come: Brace yourselves, a huge week for market starts in a few hours' time with Chinese manufacturing PMIs.  Policy meetings galore and a payroll number to boot. Fireworks are a given, even without minor considerations like the 4th of July! Indeed, the first of every month is PMI Day, and starting Sunday evening, we'll be covering regional manufacturing reports as they come out (first from Asian countries, then from Europe early Monday morning, and then in North America). And that's just the beginning: We have plenty of labor data coming up this week (as well as other data) which will culminate in this Friday's Non-Farm Payrolls report. Given the focus on whether the Fed is ready to pull back from its easing at all, Friday's report will be given an extraordinary amount of scrutiny. Juckes, meanwhile, summarizes the big discussion still surrounding the Fed, and whether Bernanke made a mistake recently by coming off too eager to tighten.  The weekend press has seen a caravanserai of commentators question either the markets' understanding of what Ben said, or Ben's understanding of markets, or both. Gavyn Davies, Paul Krugman, Phillip Coggan, the Guardian, the FT, and more. The basic line is that markets over-reacted and the Fed needs to be careful. And despite one of the aforementioned having a Nobel prize in economics, I mostly disagree with the interpretation.  I may only be a fool on a hill, but if markets go a bit crazy when the Fed merely invites us to imagine what might happen if they stop buying bonds, I think that is rock solid evidence of over-correlated positions. The Fed is right to try and let some air out of the balloon. Back off now, and we'll really be in trouble. Anyway, tune in Sunday evening, when our Sam Ro begins our wall-to-wall coverage of PMI day.
There's been an awful lot of belly-aching about the Federal Reserve possibly beginning to taper, or gradually reduce, its stimulative bond-buying program. Some have attributed the risk of the taper to the return of volatility in the stock markets. But this volatility may be explained more directly by a larger, more theoretically sound reason: deteriorating earnings expectations. "[E]arnings matter the most for equities, in our opinion, and there is relatively robust statistical evidence to back up that contention," said Citi's Tobias Levkovich in a note to clients last week. "In this respect, we have been a tad shocked by the surge in negative-to-positive preannouncement trends that make 2009’s surge appear less worrisome in retrospect. Upward earnings guidance has dipped as well and there has been little consternation or discussion about it." FactSet's John Butters examined this trend closely recently with regard to the quarter that just ended. "For Q2 2013, 87 companies have issued negative EPS guidance and 21 companies have issued positive EPS guidance," said Butters.  "If 87 is the final number, it will mark the highest number of companies issuing negative EPS guidance for a quarter. "The percentage of companies issuing negative EPS guidance is 81% (87 out of 108)," Butters added. "If this is the final percentage for the quarter, it will mark the highest percentage of companies issuing negative EPS guidance for a quarter." The weirdest thing about this is that this trend has been getting worse for years and the stock market has only been going up. "Although the number of negative preannouncements is running at an all-time high, the market is not punishing the performance of these stocks in the short term," said Butters.  "For the 87 companies that have issued negative EPS guidance for Q2 2013 to date, the average price change (2 days before the guidance was issued through 2 days after the guidance was issued) was +0.1%. This percentage is well above the average of -1.2% over the past five years." Here's a chart FactSet demonstrating this counterintuitive yet troubling trend: FactSet It remains to be seen whether or not the stock market will crack under this trend. But for now, we can try to make sense of the fundamentals. Butters notes that revenue guidance has been deteriorating, which could reflect problems with demand. "For Q2 2013, 55 companies have issued negative revenue guidance for the quarter and 14 have issued positive revenue guidance," said Butters. "As a result, 80% (55 out 69) of the companies that have issued revenue guidance for the quarter have issued negative guidance. If this is the final percentage for the quarter, it will mark the third highest percentage since 2006." Based on corporate commentary, much of this is due to problems overseas, specifically in Western Europe and the big emerging markets.  Here's a roundup of some quotes from the big multinationals via FactSet: “The economy in Europe continues to be a challenge and China appears to be slowing down as well.” –HP (May 22) “For the quarter, Europe's results were dampened by ongoing economic uncertainty. First quarter comparable sales were down 1.1%...” –McDonald’s Corp. (Apr. 19) “We planned for Europe to be similar to 2012, down again, but it was even weaker than we had expected.” –General Electric (Apr. 19) “In Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa (APMEA), first quarter comparable sales declined 3.3% primarily due to ongoing weakness in Japan and negative results in China.” –McDonald’s Corp. (Apr. 19) “But our growth markets revenue was up 1% at constant currency, clearly not what we expected or what we needed.” –IBM (Apr. 18) “As we look ahead to the remainder of 2013, we continue to expect China's economic slowdown to have a short-term effect on our industry and on our business, although we do expect to see some gradual improvement in consumer disposable income and, as a result, sequential improvement for our business as the year progresses.” –Coca-Cola (Apr. 16) “Yeah, so in China, I think the market is very, very strong... I think property transactions in the first quarter were up 60% in China. So again, the market's a lot better than what we had anticipated. We saw that starting in the fourth quarter.” –United Technologies (Apr. 23) “China results continued very strong, with total sales growing 40% and comparable store sales rising at a double-digit rate.” –Coach (Apr. 23) “Most of our emerging markets, including China, remained strong.” –General Electric (Apr. 19) Q2 earnings season starts in a few weeks. It'll be interesting to hear what companies say and how the markets react.
REUTERS/Sergio MoraesWomen relax in front of a large wave on Leblon beach in Rio de Janeiro April 17, 2013.NEW YORK (Reuters) - The threat of less central bank stimulus and higher interest rates has crushedÂ emergingÂ marketsÂ more than most assetsÂ inÂ the past two months,Â inÂ someÂ cases slashing the value of stocks and bondsÂ inÂ developing countries to levels not seen since the last financial crisis. The slumpÂ afterÂ U.S. Federal Reserve ChairmanÂ Ben BernankeÂ signaledÂ inÂ May that the Fed expects to curb and then end its bond-buying programÂ inÂ the next year if the economy improves has pushed prices to levels that would have looked very appealing only a few weeks ago. AndÂ someÂ emergingÂ market investors are buying, even with the understanding that there is a big riskÂ marketsÂ have further to drop. "We're starting to selectively increase our exposure toÂ emergingÂ markets," saidÂ Andres Calderon, portfolio manager and vice president for research atÂ Hansberger Global InvestorsÂ inÂ Fort Lauderdale,Â Florida. "But the key word is selective. We're not rushingÂ in." There is every reason to be cautious: Many fund managers expect lower growthÂ inÂ emergingÂ markets.Â SomeÂ marketsÂ have suffered recently from steep capital outflows, and the slowdownÂ inÂ ChinaÂ has affected otherÂ emergingÂ economies, particularly commodity producers. Still,Â emergingÂ marketsÂ are expected to continue to grow faster than developed countries. Northern Trust Asset Management, for one, has remained overweightÂ inÂ emergingÂ market stocks through the slide. TheÂ Chicago-based firm manages $810 billionÂ inÂ assets. "If you're worried about performanceÂ inÂ the next one or two quarters, then it's hard to make a case about a visible catalyst forÂ emergingÂ markets," said Jim McDonald, Northern Trust's chief investment strategist. "But if you have a 12- to 18-month outlook, then this group will work." He saidÂ emerging-market stocks are trading at around 10 times this year's earnings, or a 32 percent discount relative to the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index. The asset class's historic low is about eight times earnings. EmergingÂ marketsÂ have typically traded at a 20 percent discount to the S&amp;P 500 since 2005. The price-to-book ratio ofÂ emergingÂ market stocks on the MSCI stock index is also showing sharp undervaluation at 1.45, not far from the low of 1.36 hit during the depths of the financial crisis, according to Morgan Stanley data. That is still far higher than the 0.93 reached during the Asian crisis of 1997-98. The price-to-book multiple measures the company's value if it goes bankrupt. "I wouldn't be surprised, though, if EM stocks come down further because there would still be continued outflows from the sector," said Calderon of Hansberger, which is a long-term investorÂ inÂ emergingÂ market equities, with assets of around $6.2 billion. There is plenty of wreckage to survey for possible bargains. The benchmark MSCIÂ emergingÂ market stock index is down about 11.3 percent this year, with much of the decline comingÂ inÂ the past six weeks. By contrast, the MSCI's all-country world equity index is still up 4.8 percent this year, while the S&amp;P 500 sports a sizable 12.8 percent gain for 2013. InÂ the debt market, theÂ emergingÂ market bond yield spread on dollar-denominated bonds, a gauge of perceived risk over safe-haven U.S. Treasuries, was at 342 basis points on Thursday on the benchmark JP MorganEmergingÂ MarketsÂ USD Bond Index (EMBI+) . On Tuesday, the spread was its widestÂ inÂ more than a year. This index has fallen about 6 percentÂ inÂ June and is down more than 10.7 percent this year,Â afterÂ gains of more than 18 percentÂ inÂ 2012. EmergingÂ marketsÂ are experiencing a slowdownÂ inÂ demand for exports because of the weakness of the world's major economies.Â China's downturn has had a severe impact on many developing economies. "ChinaÂ is likely to be far less effective as an engine for global recovery thanÂ inÂ previous episodes such as 2009," saidÂ Bhanu Baweja, an investment strategist at UBSÂ inÂ London. J.P. Morgan has reduced its growth forecast forÂ emergingÂ marketsÂ as a groupÂ inÂ 2013 to 4.8 percent from its previous estimate of 5.1 percent. The U.S. investment bank expectsÂ emergingÂ market growth of 5.4 percentÂ in2014. Still those growth numbers are way above estimatesÂ inÂ developedÂ markets, which are forecast to grow just 1 percent this year and 1.8 percentÂ inÂ 2014, J.P. Morgan data show. Brazilian governmentÂ bonds maturingÂ inÂ 2021 have fallen by 245 basis points since May, while Mexican bond prices have declined by 144 basis points, according to Morgan Stanley. The firm's latestÂ emergingÂ market bond models suggest thoseÂ marketsÂ are now undervalued. "The selloffÂ inÂ MexicoÂ is not justified," saidÂ Nicholas Jacquiere,Â emergingÂ market debt economist at Standard Life InvestmentsÂ inÂ London, which manages assets of $272.6 billion. "GrowthÂ inÂ MexicoÂ has come down a little bit and it's going through a soft patch, but that is good for bond investors because that means the central bank could cut rates again this year if growth continues to soften." Standish Asset Management, a $170 billion fixed-income investment firmÂ inÂ Boston, has bought local Mexican and Brazilian bonds as yields have fallen. The average yield onÂ emergingÂ market local bonds is about 6.2 percent, Standish said, or about 100 basis points higher before the selloffÂ inÂ May. "Many investors are comfortable with the currency volatility attached to these local bonds, and the expectation is thatÂ inÂ the medium term,Â emergingÂ market currencies will appreciate," saidÂ Alexander Kozhemiakin, managing director andÂ emergingÂ marketsÂ debt team leader at Standish. Near-term risksÂ inÂ emergingÂ market currencies have declined, since many of the aggressive betsÂ inÂ favor of these assets have been reduced. For instance, net longs - bets a currency will rise -Â inÂ the Mexican peso, the most liquidÂ emergingÂ market currency, tumbled to around $812 million, the latest data from theÂ Commodity Futures Trading CommissionÂ show. That is down sharply from roughly $6 billionÂ inÂ April. Long positionsÂ inÂ the Brazilian real and Chilean peso have also substantially fallen, according to Morgan Stanley data. There is still a risk of further outflows from the local currency debt sector, fund managers say. Morgan Stanley data showsÂ emergingÂ market institutional investors are still overweight on local debt relative to their benchmark, suggesting more room to pare positions shouldÂ marketsÂ remain scary. "When you see that exposure indicator going down, that's a sign that the market is starting to clear their positions and therefore there would be a sense of calm," said Rashique Rahman, global head ofÂ emergingÂ market strategy at Morgan StanleyÂ inÂ New York. Analysts at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch saidÂ inÂ a Thursday note that institutions they surveyed are raising cashÂ inÂ expectation of outflows, as investors respond to the volatility. Once that is alleviated, the case for long-term bets becomes clearer, fund managers said. (Editing by David Gaffen, Martin Howell and Douglas Royalty)
REUTERS/Sergio MoraesWomen relax in front of a large wave on Leblon beach in Rio de Janeiro April 17, 2013.NEW YORK (Reuters) - The threat of less central bank stimulus and higher interest rates has crushedÂ emergingÂ marketsÂ more than most assetsÂ inÂ the past two months,Â inÂ someÂ cases slashing the value of stocks and bondsÂ inÂ developing countries to levels not seen since the last financial crisis. The slumpÂ afterÂ U.S. Federal Reserve ChairmanÂ Ben BernankeÂ signaledÂ inÂ May that the Fed expects to curb and then end its bond-buying programÂ inÂ the next year if the economy improves has pushed prices to levels that would have looked very appealing only a few weeks ago. AndÂ someÂ emergingÂ market investors are buying, even with the understanding that there is a big riskÂ marketsÂ have further to drop. "We're starting to selectively increase our exposure toÂ emergingÂ markets," saidÂ Andres Calderon, portfolio manager and vice president for research atÂ Hansberger Global InvestorsÂ inÂ Fort Lauderdale,Â Florida. "But the key word is selective. We're not rushingÂ in." There is every reason to be cautious: Many fund managers expect lower growthÂ inÂ emergingÂ markets.Â SomeÂ marketsÂ have suffered recently from steep capital outflows, and the slowdownÂ inÂ ChinaÂ has affected otherÂ emergingÂ economies, particularly commodity producers. Still,Â emergingÂ marketsÂ are expected to continue to grow faster than developed countries. Northern Trust Asset Management, for one, has remained overweightÂ inÂ emergingÂ market stocks through the slide. TheÂ Chicago-based firm manages $810 billionÂ inÂ assets. "If you're worried about performanceÂ inÂ the next one or two quarters, then it's hard to make a case about a visible catalyst forÂ emergingÂ markets," said Jim McDonald, Northern Trust's chief investment strategist. "But if you have a 12- to 18-month outlook, then this group will work." He saidÂ emerging-market stocks are trading at around 10 times this year's earnings, or a 32 percent discount relative to the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index. The asset class's historic low is about eight times earnings. EmergingÂ marketsÂ have typically traded at a 20 percent discount to the S&amp;P 500 since 2005. The price-to-book ratio ofÂ emergingÂ market stocks on the MSCI stock index is also showing sharp undervaluation at 1.45, not far from the low of 1.36 hit during the depths of the financial crisis, according to Morgan Stanley data. That is still far higher than the 0.93 reached during the Asian crisis of 1997-98. The price-to-book multiple measures the company's value if it goes bankrupt. "I wouldn't be surprised, though, if EM stocks come down further because there would still be continued outflows from the sector," said Calderon of Hansberger, which is a long-term investorÂ inÂ emergingÂ market equities, with assets of around $6.2 billion. There is plenty of wreckage to survey for possible bargains. The benchmark MSCIÂ emergingÂ market stock index is down about 11.3 percent this year, with much of the decline comingÂ inÂ the past six weeks. By contrast, the MSCI's all-country world equity index is still up 4.8 percent this year, while the S&amp;P 500 sports a sizable 12.8 percent gain for 2013. InÂ the debt market, theÂ emergingÂ market bond yield spread on dollar-denominated bonds, a gauge of perceived risk over safe-haven U.S. Treasuries, was at 342 basis points on Thursday on the benchmark JP MorganEmergingÂ MarketsÂ USD Bond Index (EMBI+) . On Tuesday, the spread was its widestÂ inÂ more than a year. This index has fallen about 6 percentÂ inÂ June and is down more than 10.7 percent this year,Â afterÂ gains of more than 18 percentÂ inÂ 2012. EmergingÂ marketsÂ are experiencing a slowdownÂ inÂ demand for exports because of the weakness of the world's major economies.Â China's downturn has had a severe impact on many developing economies. "ChinaÂ is likely to be far less effective as an engine for global recovery thanÂ inÂ previous episodes such as 2009," saidÂ Bhanu Baweja, an investment strategist at UBSÂ inÂ London. J.P. Morgan has reduced its growth forecast forÂ emergingÂ marketsÂ as a groupÂ inÂ 2013 to 4.8 percent from its previous estimate of 5.1 percent. The U.S. investment bank expectsÂ emergingÂ market growth of 5.4 percentÂ in2014. Still those growth numbers are way above estimatesÂ inÂ developedÂ markets, which are forecast to grow just 1 percent this year and 1.8 percentÂ inÂ 2014, J.P. Morgan data show. Brazilian governmentÂ bonds maturingÂ inÂ 2021 have fallen by 245 basis points since May, while Mexican bond prices have declined by 144 basis points, according to Morgan Stanley. The firm's latestÂ emergingÂ market bond models suggest thoseÂ marketsÂ are now undervalued. "The selloffÂ inÂ MexicoÂ is not justified," saidÂ Nicholas Jacquiere,Â emergingÂ market debt economist at Standard Life InvestmentsÂ inÂ London, which manages assets of $272.6 billion. "GrowthÂ inÂ MexicoÂ has come down a little bit and it's going through a soft patch, but that is good for bond investors because that means the central bank could cut rates again this year if growth continues to soften." Standish Asset Management, a $170 billion fixed-income investment firmÂ inÂ Boston, has bought local Mexican and Brazilian bonds as yields have fallen. The average yield onÂ emergingÂ market local bonds is about 6.2 percent, Standish said, or about 100 basis points higher before the selloffÂ inÂ May. "Many investors are comfortable with the currency volatility attached to these local bonds, and the expectation is thatÂ inÂ the medium term,Â emergingÂ market currencies will appreciate," saidÂ Alexander Kozhemiakin, managing director andÂ emergingÂ marketsÂ debt team leader at Standish. Near-term risksÂ inÂ emergingÂ market currencies have declined, since many of the aggressive betsÂ inÂ favor of these assets have been reduced. For instance, net longs - bets a currency will rise -Â inÂ the Mexican peso, the most liquidÂ emergingÂ market currency, tumbled to around $812 million, the latest data from theÂ Commodity Futures Trading CommissionÂ show. That is down sharply from roughly $6 billionÂ inÂ April. Long positionsÂ inÂ the Brazilian real and Chilean peso have also substantially fallen, according to Morgan Stanley data. There is still a risk of further outflows from the local currency debt sector, fund managers say. Morgan Stanley data showsÂ emergingÂ market institutional investors are still overweight on local debt relative to their benchmark, suggesting more room to pare positions shouldÂ marketsÂ remain scary. "When you see that exposure indicator going down, that's a sign that the market is starting to clear their positions and therefore there would be a sense of calm," said Rashique Rahman, global head ofÂ emergingÂ market strategy at Morgan StanleyÂ inÂ New York. Analysts at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch saidÂ inÂ a Thursday note that institutions they surveyed are raising cashÂ inÂ expectation of outflows, as investors respond to the volatility. Once that is alleviated, the case for long-term bets becomes clearer, fund managers said. (Editing by David Gaffen, Martin Howell and Douglas Royalty)
One good way to judge a currency is by looking at how it trades on the foreign exchange markets. A less boring way is to just see how it looks in your hand, all crisp and money-like. From epic 19th century leaders to blinding color schemes, some of the globe's currencies use style to make up for a dearth in purchasing power. Sure, the U.S. dollar is great. But the boring colors and lack of diversity (Every face is of a white male) makes it the most boring currency in the world. So, here you have it: the world's coolest banknotes. 1. Icelandic krona With a cartoonishly Nordic look, the krona is fun for the whole family. Flickr/Puyol5 2. Angolan kwanza Simple, elegant. Wikimedia Commons 3. East Caribbean dollar Â A young, smirking Queen Elizabeth gives this banknote an island chicness. Wikimedia Commons 4. Israeli shekel The colorful "new" shekel redesign borders on glow in the dark (unconfirmed). Wikimedia Commons 5. Latvian lats A direct, bearded figure on a soft red and white background. This currency says, "I'm not the Euro, buddy."Â  Wikimedia Commons 6. Brunei dollar A stunning currency. Blue and yellow pastels contrast with stoic, mustachioed generals of Brunei yore. Flickr/LeftoverCurrency 7. Liberian dollar Liberia's history is directly tied to the U.S., and you can actually see it in the banknote, albeit with a uniquely African color scheme and gusto. Flickr/jmoneyyyyyyy 8. Comorian franc The currency from Comoros looks like something out of an old painting. Flickr/bharathi2010 9.Â Turkmenistan manat The manat's purples, maroons, and greens give it a 1980s electropunk feel, but with a certain austere importance to it. Well done. Flickr/evilsoapbox 10. Canadian dollar For obvious reasons. Flickr/leadenhall 11. Samoan tala Samoa's currency doubles as a travel brochure. Check out that luxurious coastline! Flickr/loei88 12. Czech crown An absolute classic, this currency screams, "Never again, USSR. Never again." Wikimedia Commons 13.Â Mongolian tugrik This ancient Mongolian leader is not to be messed with. Wikimedia Commons 14. Iranian rial UN sanctions have sent the value plummeting, but the rial itself is a real classic. Staunch leader, big mountain. A simple and effective formula. Flickr/ozz13x 15.Â Bhutanese ngultrum Stunning (plus honorable mention for best name). Wikimedia Commons 16. Costa Rican colones Sharks. Wikimedia Commons
Ever since Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke suggested that the Fed could begin to taper, or gradually reduce, its stimulative bond-buying program, the global financial markets have been going crazy trying to make sense of the comments. Interest rates have surged, gold has collapsed, and the Dow has regularly exhibited 100+ point swings. Fed insiders have offered some color since we last heard from the Fed Chairman. "There have been a lot of Fed speakers since the June meeting, including both Bank presidents and governors," said Vincent Reinhart, Morgan Stanley's Chief U.S. Economist and former Fed insider. "The latter tend to be especially informative because they often channel the staff view. Reassurance was in ample supply. We learned that the Fed cares about the pace of economic growth, worries about disinflation, and monitors financial stability." Simply put, the Fed insiders have been stressing the importance of economic data in determining when they'll actually alter monetary policy. "Listen for more reassurances about data-dependence and flexibility," added Reinhart. "The Fed’s solution to communications problems is usually to talk more." One voice we haven't heard yet is that of Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen, the person who is first in line to replace Ben Bernanke should he step down at the end of the year. Unfortunately, she's not scheduled to speak anytime soon and  we probably won't hear her say anything substantial for a while. "A problem for us, however, is that probably the most persuasive one in explaining the Fed’s intent will likely operate under radio silence for some time," said Reinhart. "As long as the top Fed job is in play, Vice Chair Janet Yellen is unlikely to risk a high-profile speech on the likely path of monetary policy."
JP MorganIn late 2011 many were expecting China's property bubble to burst. It looked as though housing prices had peaked and signs of stress were beginning to appear (see discussion). But the correction turned out to be quite shallow and in spite of China's government's multiple attempts to arrest housing price appreciation (and partially succeeding - see post), house prices went on rising. With real rates on deposits remaining in negative territory for years, there were few places to turn for wealthy savers. Property became one of the primary vehicles to put away excess cash to escape inflationary pressures. Moreover, municipal governments made large sums of money selling land to developers, while banks ("encouraged" by municipalities) have been happily lending. And in many cases lenders and developers have set up arrangements that are a bit closer than "arms length" (see discussion). Except for ordinary families who got shut out of the housing markets, everyone benefited from this rally. Housing investment as percentage of GDP has been growing unabated, and in recent years started approaching levels that other nations experienced at the height of their property bubbles. Credit Suisse Now, based on the house price to wage ratio compiled by the IMF, China's large cities have the most expensive real estate in the world. Beijing is particularly expensive, as party officials deploy their "hard-earned" cash. Creidt Suisse And while Western economists debate if China's property market is truly a bubble, major Chinese developers are openly admitting it. South China Morning Post: - China Vanke [one of the largest developers in China] chairman Wang Shi said the mainland's property market faces the risk of a "bubble", reiterating concerns the developer raised three months ago. The bubble is not "light", Wang said at a conference in Shanghai yesterday. "If the bubble lasts, it will be dangerous." Home prices have been increasing even as the government in March stepped up a three-year campaign to cool the market. The measures have included raising down-payment and mortgage requirements, imposing a property tax for the first time in Shanghai and Chongqing, and enacting purchase restrictions in about 40 cities. New home prices jumped 6.9 per cent in May, the most since they reversed declines in December, SouFun Holdings, the mainland's biggest real estate website owner, said. But bubbles can last for a long time. Are there indications that this market may have peaked? Two key economic developments point to rising risks to this multi-year housing rally. 1. Real rates on deposits have turned positive in China recently, which will reduce incentives to use property markets as a savings tool. If rich savers make more on interest than they lose to inflation, they are less inclined to look for alternatives to bank deposits. Credit Suisse 2. The recent madness in China's money markets and PBoC's "delayed reaction" to tight monetary conditions (see discussion) could potentially spill over into the broader credit markets, resulting in increased lending rates and tighter credit conditions in general. That's not great news for property markets. JPMorgan: - We expect liquidity conditions to ease in July, but in the near term, there is a risk that the tough line taken by the PBOC will create an artificial liquidity squeeze and cause an increase in the lending rate to the real sector (the SHIBOR rate also increased significantly, to 5.4%), putting further pressure on already-weak economic activity. In our view, the PBOC should reintroduce reverse-repo [injecting liquidity] operations very soon to calm the panic in the interbank market. These threats to China's property markets, combined with weakness in manufacturing, do not bode well for China's near term growth prospects.
The US dollar extended its advancing streak for the third consecutive week to close out the month and quarter. Federal Reserve officials have tried to clarify policy by noting that tapering is not tightening and the decision remains data dependent.Â  That may be fair and good, but it does not appear to have altered the calculation of investors. The US 10-year yield, for example, rose from 40 bp in response to FOMC statement, the updated forecasts and Bernanke's comments. Â The assurance of the Fed officials saw the 10-year yield surrender about 20 bp, leaving the benchmark yield at still elevated levels, though other market segments have not corrected as much. Yields rose more than the Federal Reserve expected. Â Officials implicitly and often explicitly assumed that the market misunderstood what the Fed was trying to do. Â Efforts to clarify could not return prices to status quo ante. Â That would seem to suggest the Fed's hypothesis is wrong. Â Rather than the market misunderstanding the Federal Reserve, it may be the Fed that misunderstood the markets. Fed officials (and many observers) appear to be relying on some kind of fair value model of interest rates to deduce that the market has over-reacted. Â However, there is another model, albeit less formal, that offers insight into the price action. Â It is not fair value, but internal market dynamics, such as positioning and liquidity, that explains the dramatic market response more than the discounting of net present value of some future expectation. Â Â  Even if the fair valuation model is valid over the longer term, it seems perfectly reasonable and rational that in the shorter-term it is overwhelmed by position adjustments. Â Sometimes, such is in the Treasury's Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS) and other thinner markets where the lack of liquidity and capacity on dealers balance sheets and internal risk limits can exaggerate the price action. Â  This has even become evident in the ETF space. Â  Â  Since the crisis began, there has been speculation about which country can normalize policy first. Â Even taking on board the Fed's clarifications, the investment community now recognizes that the US is likely to be first, even if not immediately. Â Â  Yes, the ECB's balance sheet is shrinking faster, as banks repay earlier borrowing from the ECB, which in part, reflects the lack of private sector demand for credit. Â However, the risk remains that the ECB will have to do more, especially given that excess reserves are falling to levels that may not be consistent with near zero overnight rates and the tightening of monetary conditions caused by the sharp rise in interest rates. Â  The new governor of the Bank of England was chosen to a large extent because he promises to deliver a more activist monetary policy. Â The BOJ's massive QE program is not even three months old and has much room to run. Â Should yields begin rising in Japan again, additional measures cannot be ruled out. Â Â  As a consequence, the dollar's role as funding currency is being unwound and as this process unfolds, it takes a life on of its own. Â Recall that as recently as the June 17-19 period, the US dollar was at 4-month lows against the euro and sterling (which was also reflected in the Dollar-Index). Â In the week ending June 18, the net speculative position in euro futures at the CME switched to long side for the first time since early March. Â  Before the weekend, the Dollar Index set new highs for the move, while sterling and the Australian dollar recorded new lows. Â The euro and Canadian dollar came within ticks of the lows set earlier in the week. Â While there may be some consolidation ahead of the key events next week, which include several central bank meetings (RBA, Riksbank, BOE and ECB), the monthly PMIs and US employment data, the US dollar is likely to continue to strengthen. Â  The euro's attempt to recover in the second half of last week fizzled near $1.3100 and closed below the 200-day average (~$1.3075) for the third consecutive session. Â This area will likely contain upticks. Â We look for the euro to test the trend line drawn off the early April and mid-May lows. Â It comes in near $1.2850 at the end of next week. Â  This translates into dollar gains into the CHF0.9540-70 area. Â  Sterling finished the North American session lower for four consecutive sessions. Â The trend line drawn off the mid-March and late May lows comes in near $1.5080 at the end of next week and additional support is seen near $1.50. Â Corrective bounces are likely to be capped in the $1.5285-$1.5320 band. Â  The greenback appears to be breaking out to the upside from a wedge or pennant chart formation against the yen. Â The retracement objective we have discussed was near JPY100 and this still seems like the immediate target, but the pattern break suggests potential toward JPY102.Â  The technical tone of both the Canadian and Australian dollars is poor. Â The US dollar held above the top of its previous range against the Canadian dollar on a closing basis over the past week. Â It is found by connecting the early March and late May highs. Â It comes in near CAD1.0450. Â On the upside, the CAD1.06-CAD1.0650 is the next technical target. Â  The key reversal that the Aussie posted at the start of last week failed to stick and the beaten up currency fell to new multi-year lows at the end of last week. Â The next objective is $0.9000, while prior support near $0.9200 becomes resistance. Â  The Mexican peso was best performing currency (major and emerging market) last week, gaining almost 2.7% against the US dollar. Â We continue to like the fundamental story in Mexico, and while the peso suffered during the initial position adjustment phase, the generally favorable macro story, including attractive interest rates and a reformist government, underpins the positive sentiment. Â  Â  Support for the dollar is seen in the MXN12.88-MXN12.93 area. Â Additional support is seen near MXN12.80. Â Â  Observations of the speculative positioning in the CME currency futures:  1. Â  The past reporting period was largely characterized by the reduction of speculative positions than taking on new risk. Â There were a few exceptions. Â Gross long and short yen positions grew, though minimally. Â Together they rose by less than 2.5k contracts. Â Gross long Canadian dollar positions were extended, practically doubling to 27.2k contracts. Â Gross short peso positions were grew by a minor 4k contracts. 2. Â The other main characterization of the position adjustment was that it was largely minimal. Â There were 8 of 14 gross positions were track that changed by 5k or less contracts. Â There were 4 gross position adjustments that of above 10k contracts. Â These include gross long and short sterling positions were cut, the gross long Canadian dollar position, as we noted, was increased, and the gross long peso position was pared. Â  3. Â There has been a dramatic clearing of positions in the peso. Â It had been the largest gross long speculative currency futures position. Â For most of the last several months, it has been the only currency futures we track that remained in which speculators remained net long. Â The overcrowded positioning has now been alleviated. Â The net long position was 121k contracts in late May. Â At the end of the most recent reporting period it stood at 5k contracts. Â  4. Â Part of the sell-off in the euro since the reporting period ended likely reflects speculative longs liquidating. At the end of the last reporting period, the gross long euro position was more than twice the size of the gross long position in any of the other currency futures. Â    Read more posts on Marc to Market Â»
The market price of gold has been tumbling. And logic and economics dictate that if the price of gold falls below the cost of mining gold, then miners will stop mining for gold. If miners stop mining and buyers keep buying, then supplies will be strained and prices should rise. This is the thesis of the remaining gold bulls. However, the cost of mining gold varies greatly from mine to mine. And as such it is difficult to determine at what price gold needs to fall so that supply-demand dynamics become strained. For tose looking for more info about this, our friends at Visual Capitalist put together this infographic on the cost of mining gold. VisualCapitalist
via Wikimedia CommonsMark Carney at the World Economic Forum in Davos.LONDON (AP) — It's not often that central bank governors get compared to rock stars. But for all the buzz being created about the new man taking over as governor of the venerable Bank of England, you would think his name is McCartney, rather than Mark Carney. "He's got that charisma," said Paul Kavanagh, senior market strategist for Killik &amp; Co. "People will warm to him." Carney, the former head of the Bank of Canada and the first non-Brit to run the 319-year-old bank, moves into the bank's headquarters in the City of London on July 1. He faces a tough challenge: Helping rescue Britain's economy, which has been foundering since the onset of the 2008 economic crisis. While he won't do it alone, Britain's leaders are hoping he can inject confidence and try new ideas to revive the country's fortunes. Carney, 48, will certainly be hoping for a calmer time of it than his predecessor, Mervyn King. In his 10 years on the job, King, 65, has had to steer the bank through the financial crisis of 2008, help rescue several major retail banks and try to revive the UK's economy by bringing interest rates down to an all-time low of 0.5 percent and introducing a 375 billion pound ($572 billion) bond-buying program. The new governor brings an impressive track record. Carney is credited with keeping money flowing through the Canadian economy by acting quickly in cutting interest rates to their lowest level ever of 1 percent, working with Canadian bankers to sustain lending through the crisis and, critically, letting the public know rates would remain low so they would keep borrowing. And it wasn't just that he had good policies — he sold them to the public in a way everyone could understand. However, he didn't face the same challenges as Britain. Canadian banks were stronger and didn't dabble in subprime mortgages. None of them needed a bailout. Demand for Canada's energy and mineral exports also helped the country rebound faster than most industrial nations in Western Europe and the United States. Canada recovered faster than many other countries from the 2008 financial crisis. During 2009, unemployment hit 8.7 percent and gross domestic product shrank 4.2 percent. But it came back. The Canadian economy expanded 2.5 percent in the first three months of this year, the fastest pace since 2011. Unemployment is now around 7.1 percent. In contrast, the UK economy grew at 0.3 percent in the same period and its unemployment is stuck at around 7.8 percent. The new guy from Ottawa is getting hyped as a departure from the quiet, reserved King, who comes from the gray, serious world of central banking. "If it is your view that central bankers are boring old people, he (Carney) was not." said Benjamin Tal, the deputy chief economist at CIBC World Markets in Canada. "He looks differently. He has all his hair. He speaks in a way that it not typical." Whereas most central bankers keep analysts busy parsing what they say — much in the style of former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan — Carney is known for his wit and informed clarity. That's considered a golden attribute at the moment, especially for the UK. Public confidence in the country's financial sector has been undermined by scandals related to interest rate-rigging, rogue trading and a lack of accountability. "We need honest appraisals of what is going on if the public is going to change their opinion," said Cary Cooper, a professor at Lancaster University Management School. "(The public) need someone who is open and honest." Among those anxious for Carney to succeed is Treasury chief, Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne, a man so unpopular in Britain that he was booed by the crowds at the 2012 London Olympics. Osborne reportedly wooed the Canadian for more than a year, happy to bear the brunt of the acerbic British media, which would criticize Carney's 874,000 pound ($1.3 million) pay and benefit package at a time when the average public sector employee received a 1 percent pay increase. Carney's newness to Britain is an advantage: He can play the outsider — replicating a common trait in business where a new face comes in to offer a fresh approach. And for the UK, Carney is about as outside as you can get. He was born in Fort Smith, in Canada's remote Northwest Territories. When he was 6, his family moved to Edmonton, where his mother taught school and his father became a professor of education history at the University of Alberta He got a partial scholarship to Harvard, where he was the backup goalie on the hockey team. Influenced by John Kenneth Galbraith, who pioneered the popular notion that economics should be accessible to the masses, Carney took up economics But Harvard left him in debt and he opted for a job at Goldman Sachs after graduation in 1988. "I felt it would be better to work for a few years and pay that off," he told Reader's Digest Canada in 2011 of the "exorbitant amount of money" he owed. But when asked how much, he cheerily replied: "That's a bit personal. But I paid it off —I'm very trustworthy." He went back to Goldman after studying at Oxford, where he met his British-born wife, Diana, who specializes in development. They have four young daughters. Carney's years at Goldman Sachs in London, Tokyo and New York left him comfortable with the Wall Street world — something that was particularly useful at the Bank of Canada. He understood how markets would respond, and wasn't intimidated when financial titans tried to throw their weight around. His backers like to recall a run-in with JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Jamie Dimon, who had a heated exchange with Carney after accusing him of pushing "anti-American" bank regulations. "He more than held his ground," former Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin said of the exchange. "Mark won the day clearly." Carney also solidified his reputation by using "forward guidance," or locking in the interest rate outlook for months in at a time — the idea being that if people knew rates would remain low they would be more likely to borrow. That helped stimulate spending and economic growth. The U.S. also uses this method, and analysts think Carney might try it in Britain. But Canadians say it's risky to make too much of Carney's role, saying he's more like Ringo Starr — someone who was in the right place at the right time. Talented, yes, but anyone would succeed with the Beatles — and Canada's economy has proved resilient to the global economic downturn. Canada's conservative banks didn't suffer from the same capital and subprime crises that U.S. and UK banks have — Carney has not had to rescue a bank during his five years at the Bank of Canada. Tal, the CIBC economist, said that while Carney was a great central banker, a bit less hype might be in order. "If there are any expectations of a knight on a white horse who coming to save the British economy, I suggest that they will be disappointed," he said. But Canadian observers also suggest Britain will note his style — the events, speeches and press conferences tinged with humor. "I'm a member of a team, the governing council of the Bank of Canada," Carney said at the University of Alberta in May. "If my legacy turns out to be bad, I'm taking them down with me." Analysts expect he'll take it slow at first. Britain has a much larger financial sector and remains one of the world's great money centers despite its woes. All that candor may not go over well in London. "He had no fear about wading into any (economic) subject," said Douglas Porter of BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. "(I) suspect he will be more cautious, at least initially, in England." __ Associated Press Writer Rob Gillies in Toronto contributed to this story. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
