NEW YORK (Reuters) - AT&amp;T Inc will buy Leap Wireless International Inc for $1.19 billion, paying almost double the current value of the prepaid mobile service provider as major U.S. carriers scramble to acquire valuable wireless spectrum. The No. 2 U.S. carrier is offering $15 a share in cash - an 88 percent premium to Leap's Friday close of $7.98 - to seal the latest of a wave of acquisitions to emerge from a telecoms sector struggling to expand network capacity, as use of bandwidth-hungry¬†smartphones¬†and tablets explodes. The deal's announcement comes days after Softbank's acquisition of Sprint. No. 4 U.S. mobile operator T-Mobile USA merged in April with smaller rival¬†MetroPCS. While Leap was one of the last obvious acquisition targets, some analysts and investors are hoping to see another deal involving T-Mobile. Analysts say Sprint could be a keen buyer but such a combination may raise antitrust concerns. The No. 4 carrier is also considered¬†satellite TV¬†operator Dish Network Corp's last hope if it wants to buy a nationwide wireless network for its airwaves. And Verizon Communications has been looking to buy out the 45 percent of Verizon Wireless - the No. 1 U.S. carrier - now owned by¬†Vodafone Group Plc. "The next wave of consolidation is beginning in wireless. This deal ... is an example of such a deal that not only helps AT&amp;T get their hands on more spectrum, customers and revenues, but also further consolidates the industry," said independent telecoms analyst¬†Jeff Kagan. "Expect to see more deals with Verizon, Sprint and others." Leap's shares more than doubled to $17 in after-hours trade. Under the deal, Leap cannot solicit rival bids but AT&amp;T has the right to match rival offers that surface. Also, the companies said Leap shareholders will get the proceeds from a future sale of spectrum inChicago¬†that Leap bought from AT&amp;T in 2012 for $204 million. AT&amp;T said it would keep Leap's Cricket brand name. Including the assumption of debt, the deal would valued at about $4 billion. Under their agreement, AT&amp;T gets all of Leap's stock and about 5 million subscribers for $15 per share in cash or about $1.2 billion. As of April 15, Leap had $2.8 billion in debt, the companies said in a statement. At the end the of the first quarter, $19 billion hedge fund¬†Paulson &amp; Co¬†owned 7.8 million shares or just shy of 10 percent of¬†Leap Wireless, according to a regulatory filing. SECOND TIME LUCKY As the No. 2 wireless provider in the¬†United States, AT&amp;T has been looking to grow in a mature market and has been urgently seeking access to additional wireless spectrum. It held talks to buy Leap last year, Reuters reported. It has been looking at opportunities to expand overseas in parts of¬†Europe, according to sources familiar with the matter. The theory is that there is more growth left in data services in some European markets than in the¬†United States. On top of additional airwaves the deal will substantially increase the prepaid base at AT&amp;T. Of its roughly 107 million wireless customers, only 7 million are prepaid. Leap has 5 million prepaid customers. On Friday, options volume on Leap surged. Of particular interest were the upside $9 strike calls; in after hours trading those calls were worth 70 times their initial purchased price, based on a stock price at $16.00. "It looks pretty clear than somebody caught wind of the deal," said Trade Alert president¬†Henry Schwartz. Two years ago, AT&amp;T struck a deal to buy T-Mobile for $39 billion, but U.S. regulators blocked their attempt to merge. The Justice Department is unlikely to block AT&amp;T this time round on antitrust grounds, because Leap isn't a major operator, said an antitrust expert who declined to be named because he had not had a chance to determine conflicts. The smaller firm has about 7 million subscribers, versus AT&amp;T's over 100 million. But he noted that Leap did have a reputation as a maverick, pushing down prices. "From a consumer point of view, it's probably kind of a shame. Once it's under the control of AT&amp;T that one restraint on the market is gone," he said. Based in¬†San Diego, Leap's network covers about 96 million people and operates under the Cricket brand. AT&amp;T said it will retain the brand and expand its presence in the¬†United States. The deal is expected to close in nine months and is subject to regulatory review. Leap said Lazard served as its sole financial adviser, while AT&amp;T's adviser was Evercore. "It's Leap's only alternative. Continuing as an independent company is not a viable option for Leap at this point," said¬†Todd Rethemeier, an analyst with Hudson Square Research. (Additional reporting by Sinead Carew and Katya Wachtel in New York, Diane Bartz in Washington; Doris Frankel in¬†Chicago¬†and Neha Alawadhi in Bangalore; Editing by Bernard Orr and Eric Walsh)
YouTubeJohn Travolta in Pulp Fiction, staring down at some mysterious object in Pulp Fiction.Morgan Stanley chief economist Vincent Reinhart, writing in his weekly US Macro Dashboard note, has what is probably the most succinct and accurate take there is on the subject of "the taper" (the Fed's inclination to slow its pace of bond purchases). Here it is. It's just 4 words. Tapering is old news. Maybe the Fed will start slowing its pace of bond purchases in December. More likely it will be September. It doesn't make much of a difference. But really the story now, with respect to the Fed, is when the first interest rate hike will be, and Bernanke did a good job on Wednesday indicating that it will be a long way off, and that there's no appetite to see rates rise very fast on the long end, let alone the short end of the yield curve. The Taper might still get talked about, but at best it's the MacGuffin, the thing in the movie that drives the plot along, but which isn't really central (think: The briefcase with the glowing thing in it in Pulp Fiction). It's old news now. Time to move on.
REUTERS/Suhaib SalemIn many ways Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi is responsible for his own demise, but in a lot of others, everyone from young rebels to police to the military to even the people running the oil supply conspired to degrade and ultimately overthrow Morsi. The latest evidence is the sudden end to Egypt's crippling energy shortages, as reported by Ben Hubbard and David D. Kirkpatrick in The New York Times: The Muslim Brotherhood and Mr. Morsiís supporters say the sudden turnaround proves that their opponents conspired to make Mr. Morsi fail. Not only did police officers seem to disappear, but the state agencies responsible for providing electricity and ensuring gas supplies failed so fundamentally that gas lines and rolling blackouts†fed widespread anger and frustration. ìThis was preparing for the coup,î said Naser el-Farash, who served as the spokesman for the Ministry of Supply and Internal Trade under Mr. Morsi. ìDifferent circles in the state, from the storage facilities to the cars that transport petrol products to the gas stations, all participated in creating the crisis.î Granted, other reporting from Al Arabiya makes clear that the energy crisis isn't exactly over. Nonetheless, it seems apparent that organized groups put a stranglehold on an already ailing system.†That organization was staggeringly deep and detailed. An article from Mike Giglio of the Daily Beast today details to what lengths the youth rebel group, Tamarod, and the Army collaborated in the time leading up to the coup: In the days and weeks before the protests, Waleed al-Masry, a central organizer, was in regular contact with a group of retired military officers. These retired officers, Masry says, promised to protect the protesters who turned out on June 30. They said they were reaching out on behalf of the Armyís current commanders. ìWe didnít ask them for help. They just offered it,î Masry says. ìAnd we welcomed that.î Masry and the rebels not only gained the cooperation of the army, but also of the police†and the recently snubbed†judicial system. ìThe countryís institutionsóthe police, the Army, the judgesówere clear from their messages in the media that they were in favor of getting rid of [Morsi],"†Moheb Doss, one of Tamarodís co-founders and main organizers, told The Beast.†Then they received ìindividual communications between Tamarod people and state institutions.î Finally there was the funding, both internally and externally. The Times details how former judge Tahani el-Gebali, former adviser Shawki al-Sayed, and†Naguib Sawiris, a billionaire and an outspoken foe of the Brotherhood, all pitched in cash and organizing efforts to wear at the base of the Morsi regime. And just this week, an Al Jazeera exclusive from Emad Mekay†exposed how Washington had funneled money to secular opposition groups in Egypt: Documents obtained by the Investigative Reporting Program at UC Berkeley show the US channeled funding ... [that] ... vigorously supported activists and politicians who have fomented unrest in Egypt, after autocratic president Hosni Mubarak was ousted in a popular uprising in February 2011. Seems like a well-organized effort to sabotage Morsi, no? Except that Morsi's moves to consolidate power and install Sharia Law began almost as soon as he took office.†His†concerns, it seemed, focused more on telling women how to talk to their husbands than with rebuilding Egypt. Those actions predate the actions of the young Tamarod agents who took to the streets, some for 16 hours a day, collecting signatures for the ouster of Morsi. In that way, Morsi made his own end. Now he has no choice but to own it, conspiracy or not.

REUTERS/Peter NewcombPresident and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis James Bullard gestures during an interview at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis June 8, 2011.Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke rocked the global financial markets on June 19 when he laid out a timeline for the tapering of the Fed's stimulative quantitative easing program. Just two days later, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard issued a statement saying why he thought it was a mistake for the Fed to make such statements. One of his big concerns was how low inflation was getting. "Why has inflation been low?" Bullard asked at an economic summit in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. "We do not have a good explanation, so we should be careful." He reiterated his recent dissent. "Given recent forecasting performance, we should be careful in using an optimistic forecast to justify current policy decisions," he said. "A more prudent approach would be to wait to see if better macroeconomic outcomes materialize in the months and quarters ahead." Bullard laid out his whole thought process in a brief presentation on the economy.
In the U.S., the labor force participation rate ó the size of the labor force as a percentage of the national population of the same age range ó has been sitting right around 63.5% in recent months.† However, this continues to be well below pre-recession highs. Nevertheless, it continues to be much higher the LFPRs in many other parts of the world. Here's as chart from UBS's Marie Antelme, which offers some global context. UBS
AP Photo/Jerry MorseyThe New York City of the 1970s looked very different from the gentrified metropolis we know today.¬†The Bowery, now lined with luxury apartments, housed much of the city's illicit activities, while drug dealers and prostitutes worked openly from Park Slope to Times Square. Industrial decline, economic stagnation, and white flight led to the dramatic downturn for America's largest city. Gotham had an unprecedented fiscal crisis in 1975, and two years later the city descended into chaos after the power went out for 25 hours. New York City saw 1,814 homicides in 1980 ‚Äî three times what we have today ‚Äî while the population declined to just over 7 million¬†from nearly 8 million a decade before. At the same time, crack and heroin infested the city, driving the crime rate even higher. Robert Stutman, a former special agent for the NYC DEA, told Frontline, "Crack literally changed the entire face of the city. Street violence had grown. Child abuse had grown hugely. Spousal abuse. I had a special crack violence file that I kept to convince the geniuses in Washington who kept telling me it wasn't a problem." By 1990, the annual homicides in New York peaked at 2,245. The city lived in fear.
Flickr / BeauGilesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more, visit Business Insider's new¬†Wealth Advisor¬†vertical. Investment Advisories Are Giving Up The Battle Against Social Media Usage (InvestmentNews) According to a new survey, 83% of firms have adopted written policies on social media usage, up from 80% last year and up from 43% in 2010. However, attitudes toward social media usage are actually becoming more relaxed. "The number of firms prohibiting the use of social media -- such as Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn ‚Äì has declined to 49% this year," writes Mark Schoeff Jr. for InvestmentNews. "That's down from 54% in 2012." "The survey suggests that firms are giving up the battle to keep social media out of their shops," says Schoeff Jr. "Instead,¬†they're loosening strict bans and allowing more use with appropriate policies and procedures in place, according to Laura Grossman, IAA assistant general counsel." Hedge Funds Are Basically Long The S&amp;P 500¬†(ValueWalk) The correlation between hedge fund returns and the S&amp;P 500 is approaching 90%, as Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker highlights in a recent client note. "Basically,¬†investors are paying 2/20 to buy a closet index fund," writes ValueWalk's Jacob Wolinsky. "Although there is no explanation given, the rise in correlation¬†is likely due to the macro dominated news atmosphere ...¬†This makes it an especially tough environment for¬†value investors¬†who have lamented in the past few years that investors have been ignoring fundamentals." Why Clients Fire Financial Advisors (Investopedia) Clients typically fire financial advisors for a number of reasons: poor performance, poor communication, or a poor understanding of the client's needs. "I'd go to these meetings with them and it was all pie charts and mumbo jumbo about portfolio diversification, investment horizons and technical stuff," says¬†Rita Gunther McGrath, an‚Ä® Associate Professor‚Ä® at the Columbia University Business School.¬†"What I needed (and eventually found) was someone to relate the financial side of life to ... well, life! Things like what our goals are, what are the big decisions that need to be made, have you taken care of your estate plans, can you get my husband and I in a room to have sometimes-difficult conversations, that sort of thing." (McGrath ended up firing her advisor.) Vanguard Suffers Its First Firmwide Outflow Since 1994 (Morningstar) In June, leading mutual fund provider Vanguard saw its assets under management shrink by $432 million, representing the first monthly decrease since the bond market rout of 1994. However, the firm still increased its market share in June, as industry assets declined at a faster rate. "The outflows at Vanguard were driven by a $7.4 billion outflow from the firm's taxable bond funds and a $2.5 billion outflow from municipal bond funds," write Morningstar fund analysts. "Industrywide, those two category groups had outflows of $68 billion." ETFs Can Add Another Layer Of Volatility For Investors During Market Sell-Offs (Bloomberg) Exchange traded funds have proliferated on Wall Street in recent years as convenient vehicles for investing in a wide range of assets and markets. However, the use of ETFs can be a headache for investors looking to avoid volatility. Bloomberg's Alexis Leondis¬†and¬†Christopher Condon report that during the emerging markets sell-off ‚Äì honing in on the period from¬†May 22 to June 24 ‚Äì "share prices for the 10 largest diversified emerging-market ETFs on average were 42.6 percent more volatile than their underlying indexes," while the five biggest mutual funds were only 4.8% more volatile than their indices. "Providers say the excess volatility reflects the fact that the funds provide prices and liquidity at a time when the underlying markets are closed or illiquid, which is ultimately beneficial for investors," write Leondis and Condon. "While the price swings have little impact on long-term investors, excess volatility can spur bigger losses if clients trade in times of market turmoil."
IMDB / Syfy"Sharknado"The S&amp;P 500 and the Dow closed at new all-time highs today. And they've also been up for seven straight days. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Personal finance website NerdWallet has compiled a list that can help you invest like a top hedge fund manager. Then again, flaccid returns have led¬†some to conclude that investing in hedge funds is an "expensive way to trail the S&amp;P 500," so enter at your own peril. NerdWallet's list shows which small-cap stocks are seeing the biggest inflows from the ten largest and most well-known hedge funds. Most of the picks are in financial services, technology, and consumer products. "If the trend continues, these stocks could see significant upside, given their small size" of under $2 billion in market capitalization, NerdWallet's Maxime Rieman writes. "There is also a greater chance that small-cap stocks could be incorrectly priced, as they are less covered and traded than large-cap stocks."
The source of a fire on an empty Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 787 in London today has not been determined, but early photos from the scene do not line up with damage done by the failures of the jet's lithium ion batteries earlier this year. Photos from London show damage to the outside of the plane, near its tail ‚Äî not close to any of the battery locations. The damaged area is circled in yellow this diagram: NTSB As NYCAviation's¬†Jason Rabinowitz points out, that "is inconsistent with the fire damage" from the fire that started in the battery, in the belly of a Japan Airlines 787 in Boston, on January 7. Guy Norris, who has authored multiple books about the Boeing 787, wrote on Aviation Week that today's images "show that the blaze was probably not connected with the lithium-ion battery problems which grounded the aircraft earlier this year." David Kaminski-Morrow, editor of Flight Global, noted on Twitter that batteries (especially ones in a newly designed container) are not the only things on a plane that can catch on fire: Plenty of things on an aircraft which can burn and which aren't sat in a newly-designed metal containment box. #Ethiopian #787 Furthermore, Ethiopians Airlines said in a statement today that the 787 had been parked for eight hours before the fire started, making it less likely that an overheating battery is to blame. In the two battery failure incidents in January, one plane was in the air and had to make an emergency landing, and the other had just touched down when the fire broke out. Here's a photo from London: RT @raisinganchor: #Ethiopian Airlines Tail section damage on #Boeing 787 #Damage at #HeathrowAirport #Dreamliners pic.twitter.com/sI84mybgEM And here's what the Japan Airlines 787 looked like, after its battery overheated on January 7: AP From what we've seen so far, the details don't match. News of the fire sent Boeing stock plummeting by as much as 6.5%, and investigators are headed to London to find out what happened.
REUTERS/Sebastien NogierByron Wien, Vice Chairman of Blackstone Advisory Services, attends the GAIM International (Global Alternative Investment Management) hedge fund conference in Monaco, June 15, 2010.Veteran Wall Street strategist Byron Wien is out with his latest monthly commentary. He wrote it after taking a trip across Asia. "I spent almost two weeks in Asia in June and in some ways it was an eye-opener," he wrote.¬† "In past years there was a sense of optimism everywhere you went.¬† Now you get a feeling of uncertainty touched by apprehension." The major issue surrounds China, the world's second largest economy. Wien first discusses how the red hot economy has cooled off. The critical problem in Asia is tied, not surprisingly, to China.¬† While Chinese Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth was reported at 7.7% in the first quarter, although some have suggested that the underlying rate was less than that.¬† I have been watching electricity consumption carefully.¬† While this is a volatile indicator, it is hovering in low single digits, suggesting that momentum in China is slower than many believe.¬† Foreign direct investment was only up 1% in the first five months of 2013 compared to a year ago and it was down in 2012.¬† Several years ago China‚Äôs major problem was believed to be overbuilding of apartments and offices.¬† There were supposedly empty cities and a real estate collapse was widely predicted.¬† It didn‚Äôt happen and today a survey of prices for residential real estate in 100 major cities shows a clear uptrend.¬† The current major problem is non-performing loans at the country‚Äôs banks and so-called ‚Äúshadow banks.‚Äù¬† This weakness in the financial system has been with us for some time, but the People‚Äôs Bank of China has been willing to provide the liquidity necessary to keep the banks functioning, even though a significant proportion of loans in the system might be in default.¬† Recently the banking authorities have decided to restrain what they believe to be irresponsible lending and this has raised further questions about whether the economy can grow at high single-digit-rates without easy credit. When the Chinese interbank lending rate rose to 13% in June, investors feared that a period of tight credit might be starting.¬† The prevailing view among knowledgeable observers in the region is that imposing some discipline on the banking system is the first step that China‚Äôs new leaders are taking to put the economy on a sounder longer-term footing.¬† Other steps will include implementing serious measures to control corruption.¬† Even the optimists, however, expect the changes to be slow in coming.¬† There are other signs of weakness in the Chinese economy.¬† The manufacturing purchasing managers‚Äô index dropped to 48.3 in May from 49.2, indicating a further slowdown in industrial activity.¬† The People‚Äôs Bank of China survey of financial institutions was also weaker and that is showing up in loan activity. Indeed, China's policymakers aren't just trying to clean up the economy. They're also trying to transform it into one that's less reliant on exports. The biggest challenge to China‚Äôs two new leaders is the rebalancing of the economy.¬† In an effort to improve exports and build hard currency reserves, China made heavy investments in state-owned enterprises producing goods to be shipped abroad and also improved its infrastructure.¬† In 1999 the consumer component was 46% of Chinese GDP.¬† By 2010 it was down to 35% and investment spending was 45%.¬† The five-year plan introduced in September 2010 set a goal of bringing the consumer back to 45% and reducing investment spending, but little progress has been made on that rebalancing goal.¬† There are plenty of goods on the shelves of stores, but Chinese consumers seem reluctant to spend.¬† Older people save for their retirement and healthcare expenses and younger families save for the education of their children and to buy a house or apartment.¬† Incentives may have to be provided to stimulate consumption.¬† If the economy is not rebalanced China will have to continue to rely on exports for growth.¬† With Europe still in a recession, the U.S. growing at 2% and most of the developing world slowing, exports may continue to be disappointing.¬† China‚Äôs new leaders have said they are focused on implementing reforms.¬† Achieving a high level of growth is not their primary goal. Those last two sentences are key to understanding what's going on in China.¬† They don't want to risk blowing housing and credit bubbles. Perhaps it's two late for that. What they really want is sustainable growth. However, this rebalancing act also puts the country at risk. Overall I would say that Asian investors are somewhat more complacent than they should be given the clouded outlook for China.¬† They don‚Äôt display the limitless optimism of previous years, but they believe they are in the right place at the right time.¬† If there is an underlying fear it is that there could be some kind of crisis in China.¬† It could be caused by a lack of jobs for younger people coming out of school.¬† It could be caused by a partial meltdown of the banking system that could result from bad loans and not be containable by the People‚Äôs Bank of China.¬† It could be caused by a political action.¬† The fear is that the situation is tenuous, and that is in sharp contrast to the view that strong growth could continue indefinitely, the mood of past years. Read the whole commentary at Blackstone.com.
Robert Libetti/ Business InsiderPennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett signed a bill into law this week that will allow gas companies to pool leases to some residents' drilling rights, undercutting their ability to negotiate on terms. Pooling means drilling companies can combine leased land into larger drilling units. ¬† The new law will affect residents who are sitting on existing or legacy leases that currently lack contemporary language about pooling. According to the Pittsburgh Tribune Review's Timothy Puko, that means it may only affect a small number of people, probably concentrated in Western Pennsylvania, the historic home of mineral drilling in the state. Still, it means those individuals will now be handcuffed if they wanted to bargain for more lucrative returns if a driller spots potential resources, according to Jackie Root, Pennsylvania chapter president of the National Association of Royalty Owners. Root told us: Those lessors should have the right to negotiate with the company to include language that would allow to unitize. The new legislation seeps that all away from people who were lucky enough to have a lease that didn't include pooling. The other, perhaps more worrisome part of this story is the manner in which the bill was passed. The new pooling measure came in the form of two sentences slipped in to a five-page bill drafted mainly to get better information to royalty recipients, Puko says, and there was less than a week of debate on the bill And lawmakers can't really say who came up with the idea to include the text. Here's what state representative Garth Everett told Puko: I'm serious. I don't know who exactly proposed (that amendment). We had a lot of proposals going into the bill. Legislation is brought to us by staff. I send them ideas, and they put them into a form of legislation and come back. Where the idea came from, who proposed this ... section, I don't know who that individual was. That doesn't seem like normal. It also seems problematic for a region that's trying to balance resident concerns with the aggressive posture of drillers. "We're¬†not as sophisticated as them," Root said. "We're landowners. I guess we need to get more sophisticated."¬†
Bobby Yip/REUTERSDespite China's recent crackdown on luxury spending, wealthy Chinese buyers are becoming increasingly sophisticated when it comes to buying high-end goods, a new report from Digital Luxury Group shows. They increasingly see luxury purchases as "lifestyle" rather than "celebratory," and have become more interested in smaller niche brands, as opposed to big established brands like Gucci and Louis Vuitton, Jing Daily recently wrote. This year, Chanel overtook Louis Vuitton as the most sought-after luxury brand in China, DLG found. ìMany brands expected that an increase in†Chinese†sophistication would reduce the cultural gap with their overseas consumers," said David Sadigh, Founder and CEO of Digital Luxury Group.†"In some cases, it actually contributed to the development of unique local preferences, independent from Western tastes, thus challenging luxury brands in terms of product offering but also opening up the way for new †opportunities to grow in the†Chinese†market." DLG shared the overall results of their annual luxury index for China with Business Insider. For a more in-depth look, download a copy of the report here.
Specifically, with a new OECD-WTO data base, officials do not have to be satisfied any longer with just looking that the value of goods that cross national frontiers.¬† What is more important, given the increasingly globalized production, is the value-added.¬† Traditional trade figures are based on total value of the goods (services).¬† This made sense when production was generally national and finished goods were exported to meet foreign demand.¬†¬† We can be more discerning now.¬† Value-added is a key concept to truly understand trade flows.¬† Value-added can be calculated by adjusting the gross value at any stage of the production process for the value of the inputs. In a recent Economic Letter, the Dallas Fed drew on the new data base to shed fresh light on the US-China trade patterns.¬†¬† In some ways, the research confirms what has long been suspected.¬† China engages in low value-added work at the latter stages of the production process.¬† The US does higher valued added work at earlier stages of the production process. The most recent data for this is 2005.¬† Then the value-added in China's gross output was 34% compared with 53% in the US and the OECD average (excluding the US and China) was 47%.¬†¬† What is true for overall output is reflected in the composition of trade flows.¬† More than three quarters of China's imports are intermediate goods.¬† About half US imports are intermediate goods and OECD average is near 60%.¬†¬† Final goods account for only a quarter of China's imports and nearly 50% of US imports.¬†¬†  This is also evident on the export side of the ledger.¬† Intermediate goods account for about 40% of China's exports compared with 55% in the US.¬† Final goods account for 60% of China's exports and 45% of US exports.¬†  The composition of the bilateral trade between the US-China is consistent with these broad themes.¬† Intermediate goods account for 70% of US exports to China,. while 75% of China's exports to the US are final goods.¬† It is in this context that the OECD/WTO data base on value-added should be understood.¬† On a value-added basis, the trade imbalance between the two largest economies in the world seems considerably smaller than conventional figures, which record the total value of a good at the last stage in the production process.¬† In 2009, the most recent data available, US imports from China were $89 bln small smaller in value-added terms than by the conventional measure.¬† US exports to China for about $26 bln smaller in value-added terms than by the conventional metric. ¬† This means that the value-added trade deficit was $63 bln less than the gross measures.¬† That would reduce the bilateral trade deficit by about a third to $126 bln from $189 bln.¬† ¬† That translates into 0.9% of US GDP rather than 1.4% using the conventional measures. ¬†¬†¬† Moreover, the Dallas Fed notes that the gap between the conventional and value-added metric is growing as the value-added being done in China has fallen faster than in the US and most other countries.¬† ¬†        Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
ThomsonLONDON (AP) ‚Äî Thomson Airways says one of its Boeing 787 Dreamliner planes travelling from England to the U.S. had to turn back after experiencing a technical issue. The incident is the second to involve one of Boeing Co.'s troubled planes on Friday. Earlier, Heathrow Airport temporarily shut down its runways due to a fire on an empty 787. Thomson said that flight 126 travelling from Manchester Airport to Sanford, Florida had returned to Manchester "as a precautionary measure." It said all passengers had disembarked from the plane and engineers are inspecting the aircraft. THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. Check back soon for further information. AP's earlier story is below. A fire on an empty Boeing 787 Dreamliner plane forced Heathrow Airport to temporarily close both its runways Friday. The incident comes as unwelcome news for Chicago-based Boeing Co., whose Dreamliners were cleared to fly again in April after a four-month grounding amid concerns about overheating lithium-ion batteries. Heathrow said there were no passengers aboard the Ethiopian Airlines plane, which was parked at a remote stand of the airport, and runways reopened after about an hour. British police said the fire is being treated as unexplained. Boeing spokesman Marc Birtel said in an email that the company had personnel on the ground at Heathrow and "is working to fully understand and address" the situation. Ethiopian Airlines was the first airline to resume using the 787, with a flight on April 27 from Ethiopia's capital of Addis Ababa to Nairobi, Kenya, after the battery incidents. The airline could not immediately be reached for comment. Television images showed nearly a dozen fire trucks on the scene at Heathrow and firefighters standing around the Ethiopian Airlines plane, which was parked on a remote stand. Fire-retardant foam appeared to have been sprayed, and it was not immediately clear if there was damage to the plane. The Dreamliner suffered battery incidents in January, including an emergency landing of one plane and a fire on another. U.S. federal authorities lifted the grounding order on April 19, and several airlines have recently resumed flying their Dreamliners. None of the incidents caused any serious injuries. But the January grounding embarrassed Boeing and disrupted schedules at the eight airlines that were flying the planes. The company had delivered 50 of the planes worldwide. Boeing never did figure out the root cause of the battery incidents. Instead, it redesigned the battery and its charger. The changes included more heat insulation between each cell and charging the battery to a lower maximum voltage. Shares in Boeing fell 6.5 percent to $99.58 on news of the Heathrow fire. ___ Associated Press writers Raphael Satter in London and Scott Mayerowitz in New York contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Veteran economist David Rosenberg, one of the smartest people in finance,† has had a noticeably bearish tone in the past several years. So, we noticed when his tone took a decidedly optimistic turn this month. In recent days, he has offered ten reasons to love the June jobs report, he has declared the death of the deleveraging headwind, and he has reassured us that the rising mortgage rates would not deliver the death blow to the housing recovery. But in the wake of a recent Business Insider post highlighting this change, Rosenberg followed up with some clarification. "My friends at the widely respected Business Insider blog runs with an article titled One of the Most Bearish Economists Since The Financial Crisis Is Now A Straight Up Bull," he said in today's Breakfast With Dave note.† "So now is the time to set the record straight." Rosenberg says its a mistake to label him a "perma bear" or a "straight up bull." "The markets don't trade off of "good" or "bad" ó levels don't matter much," he wrote. "But rates of change do. So what matters for markets is "worse or "better." And my sense is that the outlook has been getting "better" or at the very least, the economy has a firmer floor underneath it than it did before." Indeed, not everything is roses. "While I have become incrementally more positive on the outlook for the U.S. economy, there is still no shortage of financial risks that have to be addressed at this point," he added. "All the more so with the more than just a whiff of complacency seeping back into the markets, with the S&amp;P 500 making it six up-days in a row and back to new all-time highs, with a discernible rotation out of safety and into the cyclicals." Rosenberg offers nine place "where the pitfalls may lie. We paraphrase: So, while he has upgraded his macro outlook, he nevertheless sees no shortage of risks.

Boeing shares are tumbling fast on reports a 787 Dreamliner is on fire at London's Heathrow airport. The stock was down as much as -6.5%. Chart: The stock had been on a tear for most of the year until today.
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannA group of Swiss banks will offer key information to U.S. investigators¬†looking into tax evasion, the Wall Street Journal reports. Under the new program set up by the Swiss cabinet, banks will give aggregated data that can pinpoint American client accounts¬†transferred once authorities began probing overseas tax evasion. From the Journal: Some of the country's biggest banks, including¬†Credit Suisse Group¬†and¬†Julius Baer Group¬†AG¬†are eligible to apply or already have applied for Swiss government approval to participate, according to people familiar with the situation. Agreements between the banks and U.S. authorities are possible in the coming weeks, these people say. In 2009, the U.S. hit another Swiss bank, UBS, with a $780 million fine and took information on derelict depositors. The agreement meant the bank avoided criminal charges.¬† Sources told the Journal that Credit Suisse and other Swiss banks are nearing their own settlements and have set aside cash in anticipation. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal&gt;
In the U.S., job creation is accelerating, the stocks markets are at all-time highs, and the budget deficit is shrinking. Unfortunately, such is not the case across the pond. The Euro area continues to wrestle with its crushing debt loads as the economy struggles to find growth. Borrowing costs exploded higher today in Portugal as political forces push to renegotiate the country's bailout terms.¬† This comes a week after the surprise resignation of finance minister Vitor Gaspar. "Portugal is, if not presenting a crisis per se, reminding the world that there are issues in the Euro area," said UBS's Paul Donovan. "The Portuguese finance ministry has apparently asked if the next review of their bail out could be postponed a bit s they can sort themselves out. The review was due to start in 72 hours time." Spain, another one of the debt-laden economies in southern Europe, echoed the worries in Portugal via its stock market. Spain's IBEX 35 plunged by 2.3% today. Here's the chart from Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg
There have been two salient reactions to the news that Elizabeth Warren is trying to reintroduce Wall Street's nightmare legislation, Glass-Steagall. One is a big populist high-five, the other is complete and total indifference. The first is Washington's reaction, the second is Wall Street's reaction. Together they perfectly highlight the ultimate difference between how bankers and politicians conduct their affairs. Of course, there's the regular noise on this topic too ó the normal drone of journalists and lobbyists telling and re-telling the story of a bill that Wall Street killed in 1999, and why separating commercial and investment banks is good or bad. That's just par for the course. What they know, what everyone knows is that†Warren's legislation isn't likely to go far.  For Wall Street's part, bankers don't get why politicians would even introduce legislation like this. If it has no legs, what's the point? Wall Street is a results driven place. A trader would never set something up knowing it's not going anywhere or just to see how it goes. It makes very little sense to them. But that's okay. Wall Street doesn't play Washington's game, so Elizabeth Warren's move may seem futile, but it isn't. Washington is about the process. It's about the conversation as much as it is about the result. Elizabeth Warren was elected to the Senate to ensure that the issue of bank regulation stays at the forefront of national politics, no matter what. It doesn't matter if the Chicago White Sox win the World Series or we put a man on Mars, Warren is going to want to talk about bank regulation. That's why she tacked bank lending rates to student loan rates argument earlier this year. That may have made no sense to people looking for results ó the ones that were actually trying to solve the problem ó but that wasn't the point. The point was, and still is, keeping banks, what they do and how they do it, on the tip of the national tongue. That's what politicians do, they talk their issues. So maybe Glass-Steagall won't pass. Doesn't matter. Warren's doing her job, sparking a conversation and seeing if the interest is out there. Reactions from readers on our end, at the very least, say that it is ó check out Reddit/Twitter etc. if you want. People still care about this stuff. Additionally, if people show they care, if a big enough stink is made, the conversation may turn to another reform for Wall Street. It may not be Glass-Steagall, but it might be something lighter. That can't happen if there's no conversation, and this political theater is a conversation starter. The questions is how long it can keep going.
REUTERS/Jonanthan ErnstEconomists and traders have inherently different market philosphies†ó the former believing prices are essentially right and the latter that mispricings are rampant enough that the smart guy stands to profit. So it's no surprise, writes Greg Ip at The Economist, that the two are†talking past each other about the recent bond market sell off. From The Economist: These different world views help explain why traders have always been suspicious of quantitative easing (QE) and economists dismissive of those suspicions. Stan Druckenmiller, for years a remarkably successful hedge fund manager, in May accused the Fed of ìrunning the most inappropriate monetary policy in history.î The Treasury bond yield, he argued, was the most important price in the economy and QE was contaminating that price, allowing countless other assets to deviate dangerously from sensible levels. Economists†Brad DeLong†and†Paul Krugman†chalked tradersí criticism up to sour grapes: they had tried to profit from the mispricing QE caused, and lost. Back in May, when the Fed attempted to ready markets for a QE taper, officials likely assumed that because they were not signaling when short-term rates would go up, bond yields wouldn't go crazy, Ip writes. We know how that went. Baffled, the Fed saw this as a communications breakdown. So Chairman Bernanke struck a more dovish tone in his Q&amp;A session this week, effectively saying, "Please chill out; rates will remain low for the forseeable future." † "Perhaps no one thought so large a selloff was necessary," Ip writes. "But each player sought to move before everyone else did. This dynamic is not easily modeled by economists, but it matters." Fed officials should be mindful that the market means something different for a trader than it does an economist.
Anyone else having trouble keeping up with Arianna Huffington? New editions of the HuffPost rolling out across Europe, Asia, and Latin America. Twelve hours a day of live streaming video news--CNN for the digital age. And if money and power aren't enough, say hi to Arianna‚Äôs Third Metric. All of which is why we decided to invite Huffington to sit down for a free-swinging round with Business Insider's Henry Blodget at IGNITION: Future of Digital.¬†Join them and take a deep dive into the explosive future of digital business at Business Insider's flagship conference in NYC on November 11-13. For the fourth year running, we‚Äôre gathering 700 senior executives from the converging worlds of technology, media, marketing, entertainment, investing and finance. Together we'll explore the emerging business models being driven by disruptive technology. From Apple to--yes--Zynga and everything in between. From mobile to social to content marketing to instant video and second screen TV. Join us to hear from: We're adding new speakers every day‚Äîcheck the latest¬†full roster here. We‚Äôre also building out November's agenda‚Äîtwo and a half jam-packed days of discussions including: For a taste of what you can expect in November, check out the latest IGNITION 2013 line-up, or the full agendas from our previous events. And reserve your spot now because extra early-bird rates expire soon.  P.S. If you're interested in joining the IGNITION community by sponsoring, contact¬†events@businessinsider.com. Follow¬†@BI_Events¬†on Twitter for IGNITION updates.
lululemon athletica via www.flickr.com Creative CommonsLululemon customers continue to complain that the retailer's yoga pants are see-through.¬† But the company insists that the problem is taken care of, and that customers who feel the pants are too sheer are probably just buying them too small, The Canadian Press reported.¬† ‚ÄúGuests don‚Äôt have the benefit of doing an in-store fit session with one of our educators to make sure the fit is right for them,‚Äù Lululemon said in a Frequently Asked Questions section of its website. The company recalled 17% of its bottoms for being too sheer in March. The problem was later traced to a testing error.¬† Despite the company's insistence that the problem is solved, customers continue to complain on forums that the pants are see through.¬† Liz Dunn, an analyst at Macquarie Capital, wrote in a note this week that sheer pants are a persistent problem at Lululemon.¬† The issue comes at a dangerous time: Lululemon has faced a deluge of competition from brands including Gap's Athleta.¬† ‚ÄúWe see a narrow window of opportunity for Lululemon to really fix quality,‚Äù Dunn wrote. "Otherwise, customers may jump ship to competing brands."
Gas prices climbed three cents overnight and are up about seven-and-a-half cents on the week, according to AAA, and people are not happy. Gasoline prices are tied to Brent oil, which has climbed about 7% since June 30 on unrest in Egypt and stabilizing demand. Here's what people are saying on Twitter:¬† Check it out: Gas prices heading up again. U.S. $3.52; Louisiana $3.37. http://t.co/q8NpNmeH7Spic.twitter.com/zE6thh1axb Gas prices jump 50 cents in less than a week? Ugh... Gas prices are up 25c in just over a week. Went up 11c this morning alone. Overnight the gas price went from 3.27 to 3.49 #messedup#why?!?! Welcome to Terre Haute. Where the gas price raises $.50 overnight and where you get railroaded 1000 times in one day! üò≥ ‚Äú@RyanJDean: Many waking up to this #gas price in metro east. pic.twitter.com/Tlk3rsfFUQ‚Äù These gas prices are ridiculous. The government just don't care if they are price gouging!! Price of Gas going up this weekend!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Gas just keeps creepin up in price.
The chart below shows the yield on Portugal's 10-year government bond. Today alone, it's up a massive 55 basis points to 7.24%, the highest level since December. The country has descended into political crisis over the implementation of austerity measures designed by troika creditors at the EU, IMF, and ECB. This morning, it's been reported that the opposition is calling for a renegotiation of the terms of Portugal's bailout package.† Portugal's main opposition Socialists want to renegotiate the terms of the country's Ä78 bln bailout. "Mr. Gaspar's resignation on July 1 has opened a Pandora's box," says Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy.†"Portuguese politicians from the President down are treating the exit of Mr. Gaspar, the architect of the fiscal and structural reforms demanded by the troika, as a green light for a public debate about the bail-out programme.† Yet the manner in which this debate is taking place, with the President undermining the prime minister and the opposition leader seeking to renegotiate the terms of the programme, is spooking markets." Spiro calls this the "Gaspar effect," asserting that "Portugal has rapidly become the focal point for market nervousness in the eurozone periphery." "I have been surprised that markets haven't been able to brush off the effect of†Portugal's political crisis," writes SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale strategist Kit Juckes in a note to clients this morning. "I didn't (donít) think this will be anything more than a temporary block to peripheral spreads re-tightening (along with corporate bond spreads) even though the big structural problem remains: Southern Europe is tackling real currency misalignment with deflation, which is making their debt position even less sustainable. Europeís rates markets can edge slowly back down as they price in 'lower for even longer than the US'. When they do, EUR/USD will drift lower again." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Via Wikimedia CommonsIt's consumer confidence Friday. Preliminary results from the University of Michigan's July consumer confidence survey indicated that confidence dipped slightly in July, defying consensus expectations for an increase to new five-year highs. Against that backdrop, ConvergEx Group Chief Market Strategist Nick Colas highlights a few eye-opening statistics on bottled water consumption in the United States this morning. Perhaps the most incredible number: at an average cost of $1.22 per gallon, consumers are spending 300 times the cost of tap water to drink bottled water. In fact, that number could be even higher, writes Colas in a note to clients. "The [bottled water] industry grossed a total of $11.8 billion on those 9.7 billion gallons in 2012, making bottled water about $1.22/gallon nationwide and 300x the cost of a gallon of tap water," Colas says. "If we take into account the fact that almost 2/3 of all bottled water sales are single 16.9oz (500 mL) bottles, though, this cost is much, much higher: about $7.50 per gallon, according to the American Water Works Association. That‚Äôs almost 2,000x the cost of a gallon of tap water and twice the cost of a gallon of regular gasoline." A few more stats, via Colas: "What‚Äôs most remarkable about this data, though, is what it says about the American consumer: that despite the (debatably) excessively high cost of bottled water when compared to its tap equivalent, we continue to buy it ‚Äì even during an economic downturn," writes Colas. "While Americans did cut back slightly on bottled water during the recession about -3% over the¬†course of 2008-2009 consumption hit a new all-time high in 2012 and shows no sign of stopping."
Earlier this week, we got the minutes from the June Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting.† Also, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke spoke about and answered questions about monetary policy at an NBER conference in Massachusetts. For the most part, the markets appeared to interpret the tone as dovish. In other words, they were convinced that it might be less likely that the Fed would taper, or gradually reduce, its quantitative easing program. In what appeared to be unrelated news, Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke submitted her resignation to President Obama. Not much was made of the resignation. But Wall Street veteran Art Cashin thinks that there may be more to it. From this morning's Cashin's Comments (emphasis added): Some Weekend "Taper" Ponders ñ I encourage everyone to reread the FOMC Minutes.† I think there was a clear tone to taper or wind down QE by yearend (or maybe sooner).† At the same time, the FOMC seemed to see the recovery as struggling and almost fragile. Now, add in the surprise resignation of Elizabeth Duke as a Fed Governor and voting FOMC member.† "Betsey" as Mr. Bernanke refers to her, was said to be the key broker in setting up the current QE. Put your Lt. Columbo hat on and ponder this:† Could the FOMC have found some negative consequence caused by QE?† Might that have prompted discussion and an interest to wind down or exit despite a still non-robust economy?† The tone of the Minutes and the new resignation may hold interesting clues. For now, the economy appears to be weak enough and inflation seems to be low enough that the monetary system would be able to tolerate more QE. What could have Cashin raising an eyebrow?
Wikimedia CommonsJPM just reported earnings that was slightly better than expected. †I just read through the whole report. †I was surprised at the strong performance of the investment bank (given the rapid move higher in rates), and not surprised at the large decrease in allowance for loan losses across multiple businesses, which helped to offset decreasing net interest margins and low loan demand as portfolio runoff continued. Overall, JPMís report is a confirmation of improving consumer confidence on the consumption and asset investment fronts, but continued hesitation on business investment. †The stock is currently trading around flat, after trading up, then down in the pre-market. †The reaction is based more often on the composition of earnings rather than the headline (since banks have so many marking levers to move the total earnings result). †Here were the main positives and negatives I saw: Positives: † Negatives: † Overall, JPMís results paint the portrait of a bank taking on less and less market risk (VaR was near a 5 year low), benefitting from the mark-to-market improvement of its current asset portfolio (primarily through loan loss reserve decreases), but struggling to increase its revenue base in existing businesses. Increasingly, JPM is starting to look like a utility (better for the financial system, worse for investors looking for earnings growth). †At around 10x P/E though, most investors in JPM are likely of the value variety, happy with the near 3% dividend and cheap valuation even if earnings growth is only 5-10% going forward. †Of course, many others probably stay away given the unanticipated risks of managing such a large balance sheet (as shown by the Whale fiasco last year).
REUTERS/Chris KeaneMichigan Wolverines guard Spike Albrecht reacts after a three point basket against the Louisville Cardinals during the first half of their NCAA men's Final Four championship basketball game in Atlanta, Georgia April 8, 2013.Preliminary results from the University of Michigan's July consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index fell to 83.9 from last month's 84.1 reading, missing consensus estimates for a rise to 84.7. The economic conditions sub-index rose to 99.7 from 93.8, while the economic outlook sub-index fell to 73.8 from 77.8. Inflation expectations one year ahead rose to 3.3% from 3.0%, while inflation expectations five years ahead were unchanged at 2.9%.
Earlier today,¬†JPMorgan reported Q2 financial results that were much stronger than expected. As an American banking behemoth with a broad footprint, it also acts as a bellwether of American household financial health. Below is a chart of consumer credit delinquencies.¬† As you can see, all of the curves are trending down.¬† This comes as consumer credit rallies. "The current quarter reflected a $950 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses due to lower estimated losses reflecting continued home price improvement and favorable delinquency trends across all products, compared with a reduction of $1.25 billion in the prior year," said JP Morgan regarding their mortgage business. JP Morgan
BGR shared this exclusive photo of the BlackBerry A10, the company's most-anticipated device yet. It has 5-inch screen (the largest BlackBerry device yet), a dual-core processor, and a Super AMOLED display, though a glaring complaint is its resolution: a scant 1280 x 720, which pales in comparison to similar phones pumping out 1080p video. This will be the successor to the current Z10 phone, the first device to run the new BlackBerry 10 operating system. BlackBerry is making a big bet that BB10 will be a hit, but so far sales have been pretty slow. The A10 is slated to launch Fall this year. BGR has all these and many more details &gt; BGR
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesA sign is posted in front of a Wells Fargo Bank branch in Oakland, California.(Reuters) - Wells Fargo &amp; Co &lt;WFC.N&gt;, the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, reported a higher-than-expected 20 percent rise in quarterly profit on Friday as it set aside less money to cover bad loans. The fourth-biggest U.S. bank's net income applicable to common stockholders rose to $5.27 billion, or 98 cents per share, in the second quarter from $4.40 billion, or 82 cents per share, a year earlier. Analysts had expected earnings of 93 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. This marked the 14th consecutive quarter of earnings growth per share. Provision for bad loans fell 64 percent to $652 million. The rise in U.S. interest rates since early May contributed to a slowdown in refinancing, which accounted for 54 percent of Wells Fargo's mortgage applications in the second quarter, down from nearly two-thirds in the first quarter. Overall demand for refinancing fell 45 percent in the latest quarter, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. Wells Fargo originated $112 billion of home loans in the second quarter, down from $131 billion a year earlier but up from $109 billion in the first quarter. Mortgage banking fees fell 3 percent from a year earlier to $2.80 billion. Wells Fargo had a 22 percent share of the U.S. mortgage market in the first quarter, down from 27.7 percent at the end of the fourth quarter, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry publication. Thirty-year mortgage rates rose to 4.58 percent at the end of the second quarter, up 0.82 percentage points from the first quarter. Wells Fargo's shares, which were up about 1 percent at $42.35 in premarket trading, have risen about 20 percent this year, roughly in line with the increase in the KBW index of bank stocks. The bank's net interest margin, an indicator of how profitable its loans are, fell to 3.46 percent from 3.91 percent a year earlier and 3.48 percent in the first quarter. Rising interest rates should ease pressure banks have faced on their margins, but that trend will take time to bear fruit. Wells Fargo's total revenue rose marginally to $21.37 billion from $21.29 billion a year earlier. Non-interest expenses fell to $12.25 billion from $12.40 billion.
REUTERS/Wang Zhao/PoolChinese Premier Li Keqiang speaks during a meeting with business leaders who will be attending the upcoming Fortune Global Forum, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing June 5, 2013. The Fortune Global Forum takes place in Chengdu, Sichuan province, from June 6 to 8.On Monday, China will report GDP growth figures for the second quarter. Market economists expect the government to announce an annual growth rate of anywhere between 7.3% and 7.8%, with the median estimate at 7.5%. With a forecast of 7.6% year-over-year GDP growth in the Q2, BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ting Lu is relatively bullish on China. In a note to clients today, he asserts that the country benefits from what he calls the "Li Keqiang put," arguing that the new Chinese premier will be unwilling to let growth slip below the government's official target of 7.5%. If the "Li Keqiang put" does exist, then it's probably good news for global markets, which have been roiled in recent months in part thanks to concerns over a slowdown in China, one of the world's largest economies. Ting writes: Now we have the ìLi Keqiang Putî We believe Premier Li Keqiangís latest vow to prevent growth from slipping below a certain ìfloorî finally convinced fragile markets that his new government still values growth stability and will employ a gradualist approach instead of a reckless ìkitchen sinkingî or ìshock therapyî approach to solving many of Chinaís problems. We believe we can term this temporary policy approach the ìLi Keqiang Putî, meaning Liís government will try to prevent a growth hard-landing and a financial crisis. For the markets, we believe an asset price crash due to panic on Chinaís growth and financial stability would present a good buying opportunity. Too early to define ìLiqonomicsî In contrast to the newly coined ìLiqonomicsî which describes Liís policy framework as no stimulus, deleveraging and structural reforms, we believe Mr. Li will not be afraid to use limited fiscal stimulus to deliver stable growth. He will likely employ a ìLoose fiscal, tight monetaryî approach by leveraging up the central government and deleveraging local governments. We believe Mr. Li is a reformer by nature, but we will have to be patient while he builds his team and figures out his actionable reform plans. What he can deliver on reforms in the near term is quite uncertain, so optimists in this regard could be disappointed. Why we still have a ìLi Keqiang Putî First, we think Mr. Li needs a stable growth environment to consolidate his power base, as a growth hard landing or financial chaos could make people think he has no effective control of the government and lacks the capacity to deliver a stable economy. Second, Mr. Li also needs to buy time to draw his reform plans. Third, as Mr. Li just took office, he may not be confident enough yet to use a ìshock therapyî approach to start reforms. Finally, we believe the government still has the ability to arrest a slump in growth thanks to China's high savings, capital control, low foreign debt and high FX reserves. What will Premier Li do in 2H13? Investors have been asking the following questions. First, where is the floor? Second, what if the government does take any measure to stabilize growth? Third, what should the market expect? We believe the growth floor for this year is 7.5% and could be lowered to 7.0% in 2014. We expect Mr. Li to employ a unique ìloose fiscal, tight monetaryî framework with a limited fiscal expansionary policy equivalent to RMB150bn in 2H13 (30bp of annual GDP, incremental spending plus tax incentives). Fiscal spending will likely be focused on social housing, railway and urban infrastructure projects. Mr. Li may also introduce tax incentives and subsidies to encourage upgrading of factory equipment, broadband and 4G networks. We expect no more RMB/USD appreciation in 2H13. We are comfortable with our annual GDP growth forecast at 7.6% for both 2013 and 2014 despite a recent round of downward growth revisions on the Street. Chinese finance minister†Lou Jiwei said yesterday that the government may be willing to let growth slow below 7% in the second half of the year. In a follow-up, Ting wrote, "Regarding the 'limit that†Beijing†will tolerate in the slowdown', we think Mr. Lou actually mean 6.5-7.0% in the next few years instead of 2H13. We think itís quite possible for the government to set growth target in 2014 at 7.0%, and we do predict that growth will slow to 5.0-6.0% towards the end of this decade. In this regard, there might be some misunderstanding on the timeframe of Mr. Louís comments on growth floor."
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderGlobal shipper UPS just reported preliminary earnings of $1.13 per share in the second quarter, below consensus estimates for $1.20 EPS, and lowered its guidance for full-year earnings as well. The company cites several factors expected to weigh on earnings when the company officially reports its Q2 results on July 23: UPS (UPS) today announced that second quarter diluted earnings per share are expected to be $1.13. Overcapacity in the global air freight market, increasing customer preference for lower-yielding shipping solutions, and a slowing U.S. industrial economy drove revenue and operating profit below expectations. In addition, UPS experienced some slowing in package volume growth as a result of labor negotiations. ‚ÄúWe expect the second quarter market trends to persist and UPS is adapting to meet these conditions,‚Äù said Kurt Kuehn, UPS Chief Financial Officer. ‚ÄúDespite downward revisions to economic forecasts for the second half of the year, we anticipate solid profit growth. However, we are reducing guidance for 2013 adjusted diluted EPS to a range of $4.65 to $4.85, a 3 - 7% increase over last year.‚Äù Shares of UPS are down 4% in pre-market trading on the news, while shares of competitor FedEx are down 2%.

REUTERS/Jason Alden/POOLFormer U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. "Larry" Summers speaks during a financial and economic event at the London School of Economics (LSE) in London March 25, 2013.Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's term expires in January. This morning, Bloomberg reports that the White House is said to have begun the search process for a replacement. Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen is one of the frontrunners. However, former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers is also getting a lot of buzz this week in connection with the likely soon-to-be open position. Politico reported Wednesday¬†that Summers' star may be rising: It is an especially timely question now, given that many top Democrats close to the Obama White House suggest the leading candidate to replace Bernanke is not necessarily current Fed Vice Chairwoman Janet Yellen ‚Äî as many in the markets expect ‚Äî but Larry Summers, the outspoken Harvard professor and former Clinton-era Treasury Secretary and senior Obama economic adviser. Few Fed watchers think Summers, whose tendency to speak his mind has sometimes landed him in trouble, would be any less inclined to speak at length and on the record about Fed policy than Bernanke. The Fed, the White House and Summers himself, through a spokeswoman, declined to comment. And Summers is also no lock. Other top candidates include TIAA-CREF CEO Roger Ferguson, who would be the first African-American Fed chairman, former Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Princeton‚Äôs Alan Blinder, among others. Bloomberg followed that up with a similar report this morning: Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers is indicating to President Barack Obama's Wall Street supporters that he wants to become Federal Reserve chairman, according to people familiar with the matter, as he keeps in touch with senators who would vote on the nomination. "As a matter of fact, I have a meeting scheduled with him next week," Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat and chairman of the Finance Committee, said July 9. "I don't know what's on the agenda." Summers, 58, who was Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton and Obama's first National Economic Council director, is one of the potential candidates to succeed Chairman Ben Bernanke, according to two people familiar with the matter, who requested anonymity.¬† Last month, when asked about Bernanke, President Obama¬†said in an interview, "Well, I think Ben Bernanke's done an outstanding job. Ben Bernanke's a little bit like Bob Mueller, the head of the FBI - where he's already stayed a lot longer than he wanted or he was supposed to." This led many to believe that Bernanke is likely out. Former Fed Governor Larry Meyer even surmised that Obama had "basically fired Bernanke on the spot."
Mark Wilson / Getty ImagesJamie DimonJP Morgan earnings came out this morning before the bell. Most analysts expected earnings per share of $1.44, slightly lower than last quarter's $1.59. And what they got was an EPS of $1.60, net income of $6.5 billion and revenue of $26 billion.¬† Check out the press release¬†here. The bank will hold a conference call at 8:30. After the call, Jamie Dimon will jump on CNBC around 10:00. A fewq things to note about this earnings report.
REUTERS/Yuri Gripas Good morning! Here's what you need to know:

Gold caught a bit on Wednesday evening after Bernanke came out and made some dovish noises. But the momentum hasn't really been sustained. And after a sharp spike Thursday morning, it's been generally fading, unable to carry through. From Kitco: Kitco
Gold caught a bit on Wednesday evening after Bernanke came out and made some dovish noises. But the momentum hasn't really been sustained. And after a sharp spike Thursday morning, it's been generally fading, unable to carry through. From Kitco: Kitco
As we get a breather in the indiscriminate sell-off, I think it is a good time to consider what it is that actually drives the faith of various emerging markets. Naturally, the easiest explanation currently is ìtaperingî, which is something Iíve been trying to fight for the last several weeks among the investors that I speak to. Alas, the power of the front page of FT or WSJ saying ìEM is doomed as Fed tightens (sic!) the policyî is difficult to overcome. What is particularly worrying is that this sort of ¸ber-lazy argumentation is very often used by fairly young traders. The reason why it worries me is that those guys will at some stage be responsible for the way the market behaves and that spells all sorts of issues, especially when it comes to concentration of views and positions. The ìreasoningî is as follows. A financial tsunami is coming because the Fed will taper. Therefore letís try to look for another crisis of similar sort. Oh, we donít need to look too far back as weíve got 2008. Brilliant! So which position wouldíve made me a billionaire back then? Shorting the EUR, receiving the xccy basis in anything-USD, selling all emerging markets, particularly CEE and a few more. So why donít I do it again as ìthis time is differentî never works. - Risk meeting at a macro fund I honestly canít tell you how much I hate such an approach. Probably as much as popular it has become. Meanwhile, people are forgetting the simple, transparent approach to looking at various countries, ie the balance of payments. Everything you need to know is there, particularly in emerging markets. You want examples? Ok, a few recent things: - Turkey. It is selling off not because of some protests or handling thereof by the government. It is selling off because the market has realised that the current account and itís funding is not sustainable at the current level of rates. And this process started before the infamous Bernanke speech. The only way to tackle that is by adjusting the main culprit, ie the monetary policy. Not the currency. It is very common to confuse currency depreciation with the balance of payments adjustment. Therefore the correct trade in my opinion is ratesa/bonds rather than FX. With or without the taper. - Egypt. Again, the balance of payments will tell you that the country was going to go bust even before the whole Morsi debacle started. Why is the current account so bad? Because the fiscal policy is too lax (subsidies etc). Will FX depreciation help? Nope, it might actually worsen things. Either way, whatís going on in Egypt has very little to do with Ben or protests. - Hungary. Itís not selling off. How come? Debt stock is huge, after all. Thatís irrelevant. The balance of payments is looking ironclad and thatís why the HUF is strong like a bison. Bernanke or not. - Eurozone. How many people have lost their shirt on shorting the euro in the last couple of years. ìThe euro needs to crash to help the peripheryî has been such a lovely slogan. But look at eurozoneís balance of payments. It is looking spectacular both on the current account side and on the funding component. Even the intra-EMU BoP is not bad (as represented by, pardon Lorcan, shrinking Target2 balances). And this is why the euro is not crashing. Sure, Bernankeís testimonies could create some volatility but the ìmacro investorsî should take a step back and see how poorly shorting the euro has worked and maybe rethink their approach. - China. Here the situation is trickier because at face value the current account and financial account donít seem to be problematic. But thereís a third component to the balance of payments, ie fx reserves. Equally important as the other two as it determines the level of liquidity in the local banking system (the central bank by accumulating reserves pumps in more local currency), which can then create all sorts of issues, including the unprecedented growth in credit/GDP. And this is why the Shibor market has become so unstable. I could multiply those examples but the point is that it is my profound conviction that in most cases the analysis of the balance of payments will help you both ask the right questions and get you the right answers. This is also the place where policy mistakes are laid bare. Therefore, stop trying to guess whether the market misinterprets Ben Bernanke in one or another way because ñ as the last few weeks have shown ñ this will stop you out of positions unless you are the luckiest trader alive (in which case sit back, relax, youíre all set). But go back to the basics. Have a look at the balance of payments and this will help you get above the monkeys who trade Bloomberg headlines and are proud when theyíve guessed whether it was a risk on or a risk off day.
This is an oldie, but a goodie from James Montier. ¬†If you haven‚Äôt read it then get your life together! ‚ÄúIn my previous missive I concluded that investors should stay true to the principles that have always guided (and should always guide) sensible investment, but I left readers hanging as to what I believe those principles might actually be. So, now, for the moment of truth, I present a set of principles that together form what I call¬†The Seven Immutable Laws of Investing. They are as follows: 1. Always insist on a margin of safety 2. This time is never different 3. Be patient and wait for the fat pitch 4. Be contrarian 5. Risk is the permanent loss of capital, never a number 6. Be leery of leverage 7. Never invest in something you don‚Äôt understand‚Äù Source: GMO The Seven Immutable Laws of Investing By James Montier
LinkedInIt's likely to be a quiet day (Summer Friday, with no big data or speeches coming up) but at the moment markets are heading lower everywhere. US futures are a hair lower. Much of Europe is lower (Italy is down 0.7%, Spain is off 1%). And China had a tumble last night, with the Shanghai Composite dropped 1.6%. Overall, this comes in the context of world markets that have been rallying, and central banks that seem inclined to provide continuing support for the economy and markets.
