Mugshot via The Smoking GunA federal judge Wednesday ordered former Goldman Sachs board member Rajat Gupta to pay a $13.9 million penalty related to insider trading, the Securities and Exchange Commission announced. Under the order, signed by US Judge Jed Rakoff, Gupta is also barred from acting as an officer or director of a public company and from associating with any broker, dealer or investment advisor, the SEC said. The SEC's case against Gupta concerns alleged civil violations stemming from his communications with former Galleon hedge fund tycoon Raj Rajaratnam. The communications allegedly discussed Berkshire Hathaway's $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs and nonpublic details about Goldman's financial results in 2008. In a parallel criminal case, a New York jury in June 2012 convicted Gupta of spilling boardroom secrets to Rajaratnam. Rakoff sentenced Gupta to two years in jail last October and ordered a $5 million criminal fine. Gupta is free on bail pending a decision to his appeal. A US Court of Appeals panel heard arguments in May. In addition to his spot on the Goldman Sachs board, Gupta had been head of the renowned consultancy McKinsey &amp; Co and a director of Procter &amp; Gamble, making him one of the most successful Indian immigrants in the United States. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
movieclips via YouTubeFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. How To Tell If A Manager Is A Pretender Or An Outperformer (The Aleph Blog) "Now, for managers, I would recommend keeping a trading journal, where you record why you think your investment hypothesis will succeed.¬† If your investments succeed for reasons that you specified in advance, that is an indication of skill.¬† There is a lot of what is called ‚Äúluck‚Äù in investing.¬† If you are beating the market, and it is not for reasons that you specified in advance, you do not have skill, you have luck, and luck strongly tends to mean revert. "My view comes down to this: I like to see a long track record of outperformance, an unusual portfolio, and a strategy that convinces me that you have discipline, and a constructive way of finding undervalued assets.¬†¬† Absent that, I will probably think that you are a pretender than an outperformer.¬† There are always some that outperform for a short time, and then underperform as the underlying economics shift.¬† Markets are volatile enough that there are always some with three-year track records that are stunning, and very lucky. "Separating luck from skill ‚Äî that is the toughest aspect of investing.¬† But it is needed because there are so many investment managers touting skill, and what do they really offer?" Differences Among Fee-Based Advisors (The Wall Street Journal) Clients need to be aware of differences among fee-based managers, according to Rob Siegmann of Cincinnati based Financial Management Group.¬† "Most consumers don't understand that there are different levels of financial-planning services offered. Most fee-only advisers charge a 1% fee but what clients get for that fee can vary depending on the firm.¬† "On one end of the spectrum are firms that are strictly money managers. If a client were to ask them about taxes, insurance, or estate planning, those firms may refer clients to a certified public accountant, an insurance agent, or an estate-planning attorney. On the opposite end of the spectrum are advisers who charge 1% but also offer a suite of financial-planning services in addition to money management." Raymond James Is Making A Big Push To Ramp Up Its RIA Custody Unit (Investment News) Raymond James is making a big push to expand its registered investment advisor (RIA) custody business. The firm just hired four new regional directors for its custody division called the Investment Advisors Division (IAD). Raymond James has also got an advertising campaign in the works to create awareness about IAD. The new regional directors are Sean Marrin who comes from LPL Financial for the West, Chuck Curtis a Morgan Stanley veteran for the center. Glenn Flego for the Northeast who was with Fidelity Institutional Wealth Services and Christian Williams who has been with Raymond James will head the Southeast. "What this represents is a serious re-launch of this [RIA custody] business, with the full resources of the firm behind it," Van Law, president of IAD told Investment News. Investors Should Stop Their Devotion To 'Well Known Facts' (Advisor Perspectives) In a new Advisor Perspectives column, Bill Smead of Smead Capital Management writes that there are "well known facts" and things that investors are "devoted to" in their portfolios. The "well known fact" is the thing that everyone in the marketplace knows and has acted on, and today a "well known fact" is the growing middle class in emerging economies and their want of things that U.S. consumers have wanted. China's boom has kept investors devoted to this fact according to Smead.¬† "The problem with all of this is there is ‚Äúnowhere to hide‚Äù if you don‚Äôt ‚Äúpush your love aside‚Äù. We believe you are ‚Äúout of your head‚Äù if you stay in love with the well known fact and stay invested in emerging markets, gold/oil /commodities, multi-national consumer staple companies, energy, basic materials, international heavy industrial companies, and the sovereign debt and stock markets of commodity export nations like Australia, Canada, Brazil and Russia."Global Bonds Can Meet An Investor's Core Objective (AllianceBernstein Blog) Investors loading up on global bonds have more opportunity to add value and they can also reduce risk according to AllianceBernstein's Alison Martier.¬† "Adding global is not just a tactical strategy for periods of market drama. Global bonds can serve as a low-volatility anchor to windward‚Äîthat is, they can meet an investor‚Äôs core objective. While an unhedged global bond approach fails to fulfill this objective, the overall risk of the global bond portfolio declines sharply once the currency risk is hedged out. "When looking at the historical returns (1993 - 2012) of U.S. bonds, global unhedged bonds, and global hedged bonds, "hedged global bonds, in risk-adjusted-return terms, come out the clear winner in the historical data."
Earlier this week, we learned that China's economy decelerated to 7.5% growth in Q2, which is right in line with the Chinese government's target. However, some economists and skeptics have long argued that the economic data produced by the Chinese government is unreliable, especially since it seems to suit the needs of policymakers. As such, savvy economists often point to other indicators that act as proxies to Chinese economic activity.† These stats include purchasing managers' indices, gasoline usage, and the export data of China's trading partners. China's Premier even offered his own proxy economic indicators.† Unfortunately, they don't look too hot. From Standard Chartered's Stephen Green: ...Such proxies are, no doubt, useful pointers. But one has to be careful. Figure 11 shows two popular proxies ñ growth of rail freight movement and electricity production. The two (in addition to bank credit) were reported to have been favourites of Li Keqiang when he was running Liaoning province. We show what has been happening. Pretty depressing: the chart suggests that the economy has entered a recession. "However, choose different proxies and the story changes," added Green. Standard Chartered
Carl Icahn just finished an interview with CNBC's Scott Wapner a day before Dell shareholders vote to take either his or Michael Dell's deal for control of the company. He's throwing out zingers left and right and NO ONE is safe. First off, Dell. "There is no corporate democracy in this country and it's a sad sad situation," Icahn told Wapner. Icahn says he's plugging the old Graham and Dodd philosophy. Dell, he maintains, is an undervalued asset, not a dying business. "If you can get rid of that board, it's a great asset for the company." As for whether or not he thinks Michael Dell will up his bid, Carl says, "I don't care a hell of a lot... I really want to own this company... the real money you make is when you own these companies... They keep hinting to me, well, what do you really want? I want to own this company... If Dell raises some of the big shareholders could go to him." Oh, and no, Carl's not afraid of a proxy fight. He believes he can win. So there's that. Wapner brought up Jim Chanos' negative comments on Dell, so obviously, Icahn moved his target, laying his sharp tongue out on the short seller. "I like Chanos," said Carl Icahn, "but look at some of the stocks he's shorted, they've gone up...With all honesty I think I have a much better record than he does... I like the guy... The billions I've made are on companies Chanos might have been short... Here's what Chanos misses: These companies can be turned around with the right CEO and the right board." After a few jokes about his wife running his hedge fund, Wapner asked Icahn how he felt about being called "the most disruptive man in business." "Who called me that?" Icahn asked, "I think you did... You meet these guys somewhere that run a company and you say 'I wanna go after that company.'" Now it's story time with Icahn. "I don't even know if this guy is alive anymore," said Icahn. "The CEO of TWA... They did that thing when they weren't sure I wanted to buy the company." A Judge asked the CEO and Icahn to appear in Court together. "I go up and [Judge] Pollack looks at me... and asks, 'if you take over the company what would you do with him?'" (Him being the CEO). Icahn responded that he would fire the CEO (who looks like one of those "head of the fraternity guys") immediately. Judge Pollack said, "I find Mr. Icahn credible!"¬† "I'm being facetious," Icahn continued, "there are some good guys out there." "What do these CEOs say to you over the phone?" asked Wapner. "They never say anything to me on the phone," he said and then mumbled... "Oh Mr. Icahn we're so happy to have you as a shareholder..." That, ladies and gentleman, is the sound of fear. And yes, Icahn still owns Netflix. "I have to share some of it with my son and his partner," he grumbled grudgingly. As for Herbalife, Icahn says "it's the daughter of all short squeezes," he said. "I've changed my thinking on Ackman. Anyone that makes me a quarter of a billion dollars, I like..." Icahn admits that if he didn't dislike Ackman, he wouldn't have looked at the stock. "It's stupid to take a short position that big anyway... it's stupid to get a room full of people and tell them... he's not the best thought-of man on Wall Street, but I like him now so I'm not going to say anything..." Wapner then read a statement from Ackman. He's at a Canadian Pacific board meeting, or as he put it, he has "a railroad to run." Ichan countered, "if he's running the railroad I wouldn't want to be on it." Now it's back to Dell. He really hates this board... "if we win they're STILL gonna fool around," Icahn said with frustration. "In true Icahn fashion, you still win even if you lose," suggested Wapner. Icahn said that in this case, there is a way he can lose. "What would be a terrible situation with me is if we go through the proxy fight, I lose the proxy fight, and I'm a minority shareholder... and Dell runs the company. That's a terrible situation in my mind... I would have nothing to say." Now for the final question ‚Äî Wapner asks if Icahn loses the Dell deal... will he just walk away and shake hands etc.? Icahn says yes, "I would call him and say congratulations... I'm a big minority holder, I'm going to try to get out of it but... There's war and there's peace," he concluded, remembering the remarks of an old friend. And with that he dropped the mic and walked off. Not really, but that's what it felt like.
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonU.S. regulators and J.P. Morgan Chase are close to a monster settlement over allegations that the banking giant tampered with electricity markets in California and the Midwest, the Wall Street Journal reports. Sources told the Journal the deal could come in close to a staggering $1 billion, the largest payout in the history of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), which overseas power trading markets. JPM and FERC, the little regulator that could, are reportedly exchanging drafts of an agreement.¬† Although it seemed JPM might originally take the matter to court, sources told the Journal the bank is working quickly to finish the deal so they can gear up for even more regulatory hoopla in the wake of the London Whale debacle. The filings associated with the allegations describe how traders rigged their bidding in order to be eligible for "make-whole" payments that would cover trading losses and generate a healthy profit, according to the Journal. Read the full report in the Wall Street Journal&gt;
REUTERS/Benjamin MyersMuddy Waters founder Carson Block went on Bloomberg Market Makers today to discuss the possible fraud at communication giant American Towers Corp. The new report from Muddy Waters casts doubt over AMT's work in emerging markets, flagging one particular acquisition in Brazil as suspect. "The reality is very different than what the company tells you," Block said. "It has been able to create the illusion of growth in part through this de facto lending business where it‚Äôs giving carriers money that they give right back to it as revenue." In the transaction in question, AMT claimed to spend $585 million purchasing towers in Brazil. Muddy Waters found the actual number paid for the towers "was really only in the lower $300-range." "If the company knows that was the case and does not disclose that, that would be fraud, but if the company did not know they did not pay that much money for the towers, then that would be something else," Block said. Block was coy, however, on how Muddy Waters stumbled upon the appraisal price of the Brazil tower. "We came across the information after we have been looking at towers," Block said. "Surprisingly Google Maps is quite robust in Brazil." Check out the interview from Bloomberg TV below: <object id="ooyala_player" class="OoyalaVideoPlayer" data="http://player.ooyala.com/player_v2.swf" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" width="640" height="360"><param name="flashvarsvalue=">
Fear not, rising interest rates are just an indication of normalization, according to Morgan Stanley's Jason Draho.  And it's not necessarily a bad thing for stocks. "In fact, the rate rise could simply reflect a catch-up to equity performance after diverging in the spring on growth concerns," said Draho. He also addressed the more recent period where we have seen stocks and bonds move together: "This normalization in rates and its relationship with equities is also evident in the correlation between their returns. Until very recently, the correlation had been negative for almost the entire post- financial-crisis period. The reason was simple: in a risk-off period, equities would sell off while bonds rallied, producing a negative correlation. The recent shift to a positive correlation was due to rates rising while equities fell. This reflects the normalization of policy because the start of tapering is a shift in monetary policy to being less accommodative, and that raises initial concerns about the durability of growth." Rising rates will almost certainly add to market volatility. "In the tightening cycles beginning in 1984, 1994 and 2004, the S&amp;P 500 experienced corrections around 10% in the surrounding months of the first rate hike. Markets remained choppy until investors gained confidence that EPS trends were improving, a pattern we expect to repeat in this cycle." Going forward, investors will need to see earnings growth in order to keep pumping up equities, Draho writes. Morgan Stanley
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. federal prosecutors are considering a new strategy for criminally charging Wall Street bankers who packaged and sold bad mortgage loans at the height of the housing bubble, according to a federal official familiar with the investigation. The official said federal authorities are finding new evidence they say indicates intent to commit fraud over the packaging and sale of mortgage bonds backed by subprime home loans in some of the civil lawsuits plaintiffs' lawyers have filed against large banks. And they are exploring whether they can build criminal cases against bankers by using a 1984 law intended to punish individuals for scamming commercial banks. The investigators are part of the Justice Department's Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group, a network of law enforcement agents and prosecutors - both state and federal - working together to probe the mortgage market meltdown that helped trigger the financial crisis. "The¬†RMBS Working Group¬†members are aggressively investigating both civil and criminal matters across the country.¬†RMBS Working Group¬†members expect to announce more law enforcement actions in the future," said¬†Adora Jenkins, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department. The group keeps a close eye on every civil suit filed and holds regular conference calls to update its members on developments. It held a day-long meeting on Friday to discuss ongoing investigations and potential new targets, as well as legal strategies, according to the Justice Department. The strategy involves a shift away from the more widely used securities fraud charge to a less common offense: bank fraud. The advantage is that perpetrators of bank fraud can be charged up to 10 years after their crimes, compared with the five-year statute of limitations on securities fraud, which has already run out on most events leading up to the 2008 financial crisis. A bank fraud conviction carries up to $1 million in fines and a maximum prison sentence of 30 years. Rita Glavin, a partner at Seward &amp; Kissel in New York who specializes in white-collar, criminal defense, said she thought the statute's broad scope gave prosecutors an opportunity to use it, and adding a conspiracy charge could help. "When you charge conspiracies or schemes to defraud it gives you a lot of leeway in terms of the types of evidence you're allowed to get in, because it speaks to the defendant's state of mind," she said. Some legal critics express misgivings. They say it has the whiff of a face-saving measure by the¬†U.S. government¬†in light of criticisms about prosecutors' inability to bring criminal cases over the financial crisis. The bank fraud statute is more often used to pursue people trying to forge checks, falsify loan documents or make other false statements to banks. Applying the charge to behavior in the securities market would be a novel use of the statute. "You're taking a statute that predates the entire phenomenon of securitization and trying to apply it to the securities market," said¬†V. Gerard Comizio, a Washington-based partner at¬†Paul Hastings, a law firm. "I don't think any prosecutor wants to start his or her day dealing with a statute that it's not clear they have jurisdiction to apply," added Comizio, who previously served as an attorney for the¬†U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and deputy general counsel of the¬†Office of Thrift Supervision. But using the bank fraud statute could inject new life into the¬†U.S. government's effort to hold accountable the people on Wall Street whose overzealous approach to mortgage lending and securitization is what many economists say resulted in the crippling wave of home foreclosures, the financial crisis and the resulting deep recession. Only one person faces jail time for activities related to mortgage-backed securities: former Credit Suisse Group AG &lt;CSGN.VX&gt; managing director,¬†Kareem Serageldin, who allowed traders working for him to artificially inflate the values of mortgage-backed securities they were holding in 2007. He pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge in April and faces up to five years in prison. His sentencing is scheduled for August. His case, however, isn't like the ones the RMBS group is investigating now because he and his subordinates tried to defraud their own institution, not an outside entity. SECOND WIND Federal prosecutors had previously ruled out criminal charges in many investigations into the causes of the financial crisis. As part of the attempt to breathe new life into criminal cases,¬†Federal Bureau of Investigation¬†agents are monitoring civil fraud suits against major banks like JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; and Bank of America Corp &lt;BAC.N&gt;, which acquired two of the largest players in the mortgage securitization world - Bear Stearns and¬†Countrywide Financial¬†- in 2008, according to two government sources. FBI spokesman¬†James Margolin¬†said the bureau sometimes has to rely on civil court cases to turn up evidence of criminal behavior.¬†Amy Bonitatibus, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, and Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, both declined to comment. Civil cases can involve detailed document discovery processes and interviews that law enforcement agents may not have the time or the resources to do,¬†Columbia University School of Law¬†ProfessorDaniel Richman¬†said. At the greatest risk of being charged, according to legal experts who have been monitoring the fallout from the mortgage crisis, are former mid-level investment bank employees who, during the peak years of mortgage bond issuance in 2005-2007, stitched together hundreds of thousands of doomed home loans into packages and sold them as highly rated securities. To prove any banker committed bank fraud, the government would have to show that those packaging and selling the securities deliberately lied about their quality, and that they targeted commercial banks in sales pitches. "Prosecutors would be looking at the offering memos, prospectuses and so on to see if there were any misrepresentations in them to the banks that purchased them," said¬†David Rosenfield, counsel at Herrick Feinstein specializing in white collar criminal defense. He has no specific connection to the MBS lawsuits. (Reporting By Emily Flitter; Editing by Martin Howell and Leslie Gevirtz)
IBM reported an earnings per share of $3.91. That's $0.14 better than what analysts expected. (They expected $3.77.) IBM hit revenues of $24.9 billion versus the consensus estimate of $25.39 billion. Here's a link to the full earnings release. IBM raised its full-year 2013 non-GAAP EPS expectations by $0.20 to at least $16.90, it said. This excludes the $1 billion in charges for its "workforce rebalancing," which includes layoffs. Even though this was a miss on revenues, this is overall good news for IBM. The stock is up in after hours trading. As for revenue, Software revenue was up 4%, Services revenue down 4%, Systems and Technology revenue down 12% and Business analytics revenue up 11%. IBM's also said revenue for it new and very important cloud unit was up 70% in the first half. Last quarter, IBM reported an uncharacteristic whiff, its worst miss in eight years. Revenue came up 5 percent short, and, more importantly, profit missed, too. IBM turned in $3 per share, versus the $3.05 expected. Revenues were $23.41 billion, versus $24.62 billion expected. IBM promised then more cost cutting including layoffs, which began in June.
Tesla's stock closed up 10.3% to $120.25. This came on news that Andrea James of Dougherty &amp; Co., raised her price target to $200 from $90. "We ultimately believe Tesla is a $300 stock at the factory‚Äôs maximum capacity, which we hair cut to $200 for the execution risk," Bloomberg cites James' writing in the bullish note. "We believe that Tesla is the only firm that has figured out how to make‚Äù electric vehicle technology 'work'". The stock tumbled 14% on Tuesday following a note by Goldman Sachs' Patrick Archambault who amended his price target to $84. He also presented his bear case price target of $58. Here's a two-day chart that shows today's rally nearly reversing yesterday's losses. Google Finance
REUTERS/Chaiwat SubprasomA model poses with an Acer Liquid C1 smartphone equipped with Intel Inside chips during a news conference in Bangkok January 31, 2013.Intel's second quarter earnings release is out. The chipmaker reported earnings of $0.39 per share, right in line with analysts' consensus estimate. Revenue, however, came in at $12.81 billion ‚Äì falling short of expectations for $12.89 billion. The company said its estimate for third quarter revenue was in the range of $13-14 billion. Analysts had previously estimated $13.72 billion. Shares are headed lower in after-hours trading. Below is the full text from the release: SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Intel Corporation today reported second-quarter revenue of $12.8 billion, operating income of $2.7 billion, net income of $2.0 billion and EPS of $0.39. The company generated approximately $4.7 billion in cash from operations, paid dividends of $1.1 billion, and used $550 million to repurchase 23 million shares of stock. ‚ÄúIn the second quarter, we delivered on our quarterly outlook and made several key product announcements,‚Äù said Intel CEO Brian Krzanich. ‚ÄúIn my first two months as CEO, I have listened to a wide variety of views about Intel and our industry from customers, employees and my leadership team and I am more confident than ever about our opportunity as a company.‚Äù ‚ÄúLooking ahead, the market will continue buying a wide range of computing products,‚Äù he added. ‚ÄúIntel Atom and Core processors and increased SOC integration will be Intel's future. We will leave no computing opportunity untapped. To embrace these opportunities, I've made it Intel's highest priority to create the best products for the fast growing ultra-mobile market segment.‚Äù Q2 Key Financial Information and Business Unit Trends Business Outlook Intel‚Äôs Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any business combinations, asset acquisitions, divestitures or other investments that may be completed after July¬†17. Q3 2013 Full-Year 2013 For additional information regarding Intel‚Äôs results and Business Outlook, please see the CFO commentary at:¬†www.intc.com/results.cfm. Status of Business Outlook Intel‚Äôs Business Outlook is posted on intc.com and may be reiterated in public or private meetings with investors and others. The Business Outlook will be effective through the close of business September¬†13 unless earlier updated; except that the Business Outlook for amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, impact of equity investments and interest and other, and tax rate, will be effective only through the close of business on July¬†24. Intel‚Äôs Quiet Period will start from the close of business on September¬†13 until publication of the company‚Äôs third-quarter earnings release, scheduled for October¬†15, 2013. During the Quiet Period, all of the Business Outlook and other forward-looking statements disclosed in the company‚Äôs news releases and filings with the SEC should be considered as historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company. Risk Factors The above statements and any others in this document that refer to plans and expectations for the third quarter, the year and the future are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Words such as ‚Äúanticipates,‚Äù ‚Äúexpects,‚Äù ‚Äúintends,‚Äù ‚Äúplans,‚Äù ‚Äúbelieves,‚Äù ‚Äúseeks,‚Äù ‚Äúestimates,‚Äù ‚Äúmay,‚Äù ‚Äúwill,‚Äù ‚Äúshould‚Äù and their variations identify forward-looking statements.¬†Statements that refer to or are based on projections, uncertain events or assumptions also identify forward-looking statements.¬†Many factors could affect Intel‚Äôs actual results, and variances from Intel‚Äôs current expectations regarding such factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Intel presently considers the following to be the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company‚Äôs expectations. A detailed discussion of these and other factors that could affect Intel‚Äôs results is included in Intel‚Äôs SEC filings, including the company‚Äôs most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
Flickr/toolmantimFederal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke headed to Washington today, and he did a beautiful job of not rocking the markets. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
REUTERS/Jason CohnActivist investor Nelson Peltz, the CEO/founding partner Trian Fund Management, is speaking at the CNBC/Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha.† Peltz said he would talk about Pepsi and Mondelez during the panel.† Andrew Ross Sorkin tried asking him about DuPont. † Sorkin says sources say he has a big stake in the company.† Peltz wouldn't answer Sorkin, but responded with "You think DuPont. You think paint."† As for Pepsi, Nelson says he wants Pepsi to buy Mondelez for $35/share. He also wants Pepsi/Mondelez to separate beverage unit from the company.†
Bien Stephenson / Flickr When it comes to board games, Risk might be one of the most cutthroat ways to spend an evening among friends. Sure, Monopoly involves quite a bit of capitalist-oriented skulduggery, but Risk involves actually attacking your fellow players. With armies. To take their stuff.† Like Monopoly, Risk involves both skill and luck. The objective of Risk is to take over the world by eliminating all of your enemies. You†amass territory by attacking your adversaries' armies.†When you attack enemies, you roll dice. Since attacking and defending with dice define every interaction on the Risk board, knowing the ways to use the statistics of battle to your advantage give you a distinct advantage when playing.† Here, we look at Risk as mathematically as possible, drawing from some excellent scholarship on the subject.† By far the most important thing to understand is the map. Controlling the continents gives you an added bonus depending on the size of the continent. Garrett Robinson, who graduated MIT in 2009, wrote a paper outlining the math behind Risk. From his paper, here's the Risk board: Garrett Robinson / MIT That's somewhat misleading though. The size of the territories can be misleading, making it seem like certain areas are more difficult to hold than others.† Plus, you can't really get a sense of how truly vulnerable some individual territories are.† Here's a better way of looking at the same map, devised by Robinson:† Garrett Robinson / MIT So we know a few stats about the board right off the bat. Here are the number of bonus armies you get for every turn you hold each continent. This also gives us a look at which continents have the highest return on holding territories. This list shows you territories divided by armies. As you'll see, Europe gives you the highest return on holding the continent, as for every 1.4 territories you hold, you get an army. Australia is the least lucrative, as it takes holding 2 territories to win each army. But there's an even more important thing to keep in mind... It's not just about ensuring that you get the maximum value per territory, it's also about minimizing the probability that your opponents can take one territory and strip you of your continent bonus.† This is to say that continents with only one or two sources of invasion are easier to defend than continents with five or six routes of invasion.† So let's look at how many ways there are to invade each continent, and how many territories lie on borders. If you're looking to defend on home turf, you've got to fortify every border territory that can serve as a means of invasion.† Walter Hickey Since a bunch of your continent's bonus armies are going to go into fortifying your border countries, let's look at the ratio of armies awarded for holding the continent to border territories that have to be held:† So we can see that Australia is obviously the easiest to defend, with 2 bonus armies allocated each turn to aid in the defense of the continent on the border.† But of the countries that give out the biggest rewards, North America is the easiest to hold, and holds the largest bonus per border.† Surprisingly, Europe is actually more difficult to hold than Asia when you look at how many border territories need to be defended for each bonus army awarded by holding it.  Africa and South America only provide one bonus army for each border territory that requires a defense. But enough of preparing for battle. Now let's dive into the stats and find out when you should fight.† Here are the rules of what happens when one territory invades a neighbor, as explained by an outstanding DataGenetics blog post about the stats of Risk: Battles occur in rounds, with an attacking player typically rolling (up to) 3 dice, and a defending player (up to) 2 dice. After rolling, dice are paired up (Highest rolled attacker die against highest rolled defender die, then next highest rolled pair if required). The highest rolled number wins (eliminating one opponent army), with ties resulting in a win by the defender.†Attacks by more than three armies are played in a series of rounds. After each round, armies from the losing team are removed from the board and the remaining pieces continue to duel. So our main question is who has the advantage here.† Here's a look from Nick Berry's DataGenetics †blog post about what each roll looks like. Keep in mind, prolonged battles are comprised of ling series of these rolls, but let's look at the simplest possible cases first: Data Genetics So what do we see? Generally speaking, whoever rolls more dice does better. When the dice are evenly matched, the defender tends to win out.† But what does this mean for long, protracted campaigns? First published in Mathematics Magazine, Jason Osborne of North Carolina State University tackled this problem with Markov chains in an outstanding 2003 paper.† This chart shows you attacker win probabilities in battle between two armies at various strengths: Jason Osbourne / NCSU So what can we see from this? indi.ca / FlickrHere are the five things to take away from this.† And of course, never attempt a land war in Asia. That's just basic.†
BloombergHugh "Skip" McGee III, the former global head of investment banking at Lehman Brothers during the financial crisis, has taken the helm of Barclays' American division.† A new profile from Max Abelson at Bloomberg shows just how the former oil banker got to where he is. McGee, 54, joined Lehman in 1993. The Princeton football star was involved in some huge transactions, including the largest leveraged buyout in history (former TXU Corp) and†a†$41 billion acquisition of XTO Energy by†Exxon Mobil. McGee also helped lead Lehman's efforts to spin off toxic assets during the crisis. That, we know, didn't work. But when the firm's U.S. unit found itself in Barclay's warm embraces in 2008, McGee was among a handful of top Lehman "Bros" who negotiated a new contract. He has been with the firm ever since, and took on his new role as CEO of Barclays Americas business in May. McGee's colleagues told Bloomberg that he is "controlled, intense, and diligent." Among McGee's more memorable moments of intensity was in November 2009 when he sent a letter to his son's school after they cancelled a playful pep rally routine. His son and other football players planned to dress in drag. From Bloomberg: ìWhy is a married, heterosexual coach considered an oddity at Kinkaid?î McGee wrote in the letter, which was e-mailed to friends by Ray Childress, a former all-pro lineman for the Houston Oilers and a Kinkaid parent, and then spread to blogs. McGee wrote that ìa gay female coachî had scolded her athletes for supporting the football team and that the head of the schoolís diversity committee made his son cry by calling bankers ìsleazeballsî in class. Known for his hard-driving business style, the Texan will be responsible for bolstering relations with U.S. regulators in the wake of the LIBOR scandal that humiliated the London-based bank and racked up $450 million in fines. At Barclays, McGee will have a tenuous situation to deal with. On the one hand, he's tasked with repairing an old boys' club culture of arrogance and greed. But he also has his bankers to appease. And, as sources told Bloomberg, McGee is†a champion for healthy pay and freer capital. Read the full report at Bloomberg&gt;
Wikimedia CommonsThe Federal Reserve's June Beige Book is out. The release, which offers anecdotal data on business conditions in each of the 12 Fed districts around the United States, says growth has been "modest to moderate" across the U.S. economy. Hiring was either steady or rose at a "measured pace" in most of the 12 districts. Meanwhile, manufacturing, consumer spending, and auto sales gained in most districts, but wage pressures "generally remained contained." Below is the full text of the release. --------------------------------------- Hiring held steady or increased at a measured pace in most Districts, with some contacts noting reluctance to hire permanent or full-time workers. Wage pressures generally remained contained, although some Districts reported modest or moderate wage growth in some sectors. Price pressures for inputs and final goods remained stable or modest. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityManufacturing increased in most Districts since the previous survey. The exception was Kansas City, which noted a slight contraction, with storms retarding some activity. Most Districts reported stable or increasing new orders, shipments, and production. Reports from contacts in the Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis Districts indicated moderate growth in manufacturing. The Minneapolis District further noted that more manufacturing firms increased activity than in the previous report; the Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts noted that the uptick was modest; and the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts noted slight improvements. Firms in the Boston, Philadelphia, and San Francisco Districts were broadly optimistic about prospects for the second half of 2013, while manufacturers in the Richmond District were cautiously optimistic; contacts expressed mixed outlooks in the Dallas District, and contacts in the Cleveland and Atlanta District do not expect future production to be as high as previously projected. Strong demand in residential construction continued to stimulate the manufacturing sector in several Districts. Home-building suppliers in the Philadelphia and Cleveland Districts reported strong activity. Wood product manufacturers expanded operations and increased production in the St. Louis and San Francisco Districts. A cement producer in the Dallas District saw a very strong market. Demand for construction equipment picked up in the Chicago District. Automobile manufacturing remained a source of strength in the Chicago, St. Louis and Minneapolis Districts. Steel and metal production increased in several Districts, including Philadelphia, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco. Fabricated metal manufacturers in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts reported gains. Primary metal production was steady at strong levels in the Dallas District, while reports on primary metal orders in the Philadelphia District were mixed. Specialty metal manufacturers in Chicago saw modest improvement in demand. The metal-forming business in Minneapolis is having a very strong year. Gains were reported by petroleum refining manufacturers in the St.†Louis and Dallas Districts. Reports on semiconductor orders in the Dallas District were mixed, and semiconductor firms in the San Francisco District said sales increased substantially. Electronic equipment firms in the Philadelphia District reported lower activity. Food producers in the Philadelphia and Kansas City Districts saw weaker activity, while demand for heavy equipment in the Chicago District remained soft. Nonfinancial services activity was steady or increased in the New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, St.†Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. Transportation services were stable in the Richmond and Kansas City Districts, increased in the Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas Districts, and contracted in the St.†Louis District. Consulting service firms in the Boston, St.†Louis, and Minneapolis Districts have experienced increased demand and expanded operations since the previous reporting period. Accounting service contacts in the Richmond and Dallas Districts saw strong demand, while telecommunication service providers in the Richmond and St.†Louis District reported increased activity. High-tech service firms in the Kansas City District and a software design firm in the Richmond District saw rising revenues, and software developers were in high demand in the San Francisco District. Consumer Spending and TourismMost Districts noted that overall consumer spending increased during the reporting period. Reports from the Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, St.†Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts indicated modest or moderate growth in retail spending, while reports from the Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts indicated steady to slightly higher sales. The New York District noted that retail sales in May and June had softened. Retailers in the New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, and St.†Louis Districts reported that sales had not met expectations. Contacts in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts also noted that weather conditions constrained retail activity. Demand for tech products was strong or increased in the Boston and San Francisco Districts. The Kansas City District reported that appliance purchases were slow, while the Richmond District reported that big ticket item sales were high. Inventories were at desired levels or slightly high in the New York and Cleveland Districts, and remained tight in the Chicago District. The outlook among retailers was positive in the Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts and cautiously optimistic in the St.†Louis District. Most Districts that reported on automobile sales noted increased sales during the reporting period. Strong sales were reported in the Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts. Reports from the Cleveland, St.†Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts indicated steady to moderate sales growth, and contacts in the Dallas District reported that sales were slightly softer than the previous reporting period, although still strong. New car sales increased in the St.†Louis and San Francisco Districts, while they held steady at favorable levels relative to the same period last year in the New York District. Used car sales increased in the Cleveland, Richmond, St.†Louis, and San Francisco Districts. Auto dealers in the Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts reported strong sales for pick-up trucks. The Kansas City and Cleveland Districts expressed an optimistic outlook for future sales. Travel and tourism increased in the Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. The New York District noted that tourism had been mixed but fairly robust since the previous report. San Francisco also reported that travel and tourism was mixed across the District. Weather conditions affected tourism in some areas of the Boston, Philadelphia, and Minneapolis Districts. Real Estate and ConstructionResidential real estate activity increased at a moderate to strong pace in most Districts. Most Districts reported increases in home sales. Cleveland noted that June sales of single-family homes were down compared with earlier in the spring but up from last year. Boston, New York, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted strong residential real estate markets. Home prices increased throughout the majority of the reporting Districts. Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas noted low or declining home inventories and upward pressures on home prices in some areas. Residential construction activity also improved moderately across the Districts, and contacts in New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco reported faster growth in multi-family construction, in particular. Commercial real estate market conditions continued to improve across most Districts. New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St.†Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported modest to moderate improvements in nonresidential real estate activity. Dallas reported strong growth in leasing activity for office and industrial space. Boston and Richmond reported that commercial real estate conditions were holding steady or improving, depending on location. Nonresidential construction activity was stable or increased throughout the nation. Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Richmond reported that commercial construction was flat to slightly up, while Cleveland, Chicago, St.†Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas noted improvements in commercial construction. Banking and FinanceReports on banking conditions were generally positive across the Districts. Overall loan demand increased modestly across most reporting Districts. New York District bankers reported mixed but generally steady loan demand. Some bankers in the Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas Districts noted competitive pressures to reduce loan pricing. Bankers in the Philadelphia, Richmond, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts noted a shift toward new home mortgages and away from refinancing (which was led, in part, by increases in interest rates). Reports on credit quality indicated slight to moderate improvements across the reporting Districts. Improvements were noted by the New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. Credit standards remained largely unchanged, although some bankers in the Atlanta and Philadelphia Districts noted increased competition to ease credit standards. Agriculture and Natural Resource IndustriesAgricultural conditions varied across the Districts because of differing weather conditions. Crop conditions improved in the Chicago and St.†Louis Districts, while agricultural production increased in the San Francisco District and is expected to improve in the Kansas City District. Extremely wet conditions delayed planting and even resulted in some farmers in the Richmond and Minneapolis Districts planting soybeans instead of corn. Excessive rains in the Richmond District also damaged the wheat crop in some areas. Contacts noted persistent drought conditions in some areas of the Kansas City and San Francisco Districts and in most of the Dallas District. Winter wheat harvest output yields were highly variable because of crop damage from freezing and drought in the Dallas and Kansas City Districts. The condition of pastureland in the Atlanta and St.†Louis Districts improved since the previous report. Coal production was lower compared with the same time last year for the Cleveland, St.†Louis, and Richmond Districts. Energy activity remained robust or steady at high levels in the Atlanta and Dallas District. Natural gas production was stable in the Cleveland District and continued to increase in the Richmond District. Drilling declined in the Cleveland District, was flat in the Kansas City District, and increased in the Richmond District. Oil and gas exploration was up slightly in the Minneapolis District. Mining was flat in the Kansas City District, weakened in the Chicago District, and was sluggish in the Minneapolis District. Employment, Wages, and PricesHiring held steady or increased at a measured pace in most Districts. Contacts in the Philadelphia, Richmond, and Chicago Districts were cautious or reluctant to hire permanent or full-time staff. The Richmond and Chicago Districts noted relatively stronger demand for part-time workers. Transportation contacts in the Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts noted some difficulty finding qualified drivers. Contacts in the New York, Richmond, and San Francisco Districts reported high demand for technology workers. Most Districts reported that wage pressures remained limited or contained. The Chicago and Minneapolis Districts reported moderate wage pressures. The Chicago District noted that rising healthcare and other benefit costs were being passed onto employees. Contacts in the New York and San Francisco Districts noted that competition for technology workers had an effect on salaries. The Richmond District noted that wage growth picked up in the manufacturing sector, remained robust at non-retail establishments, and flattened at retail businesses. Overall consumer and input price pressures remained stable or modest in most reporting Districts, although some Districts noted price increases. Most notably, the Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts noted upward pressures on the prices of construction materials. The Philadelphia and Richmond Districts reported price increases for raw materials and finished goods among manufacturers. The New York District reported that input price pressures have abated further in manufacturing but remained widespread in services. Retail prices remained steady in the Boston, New York, Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas District, while retail price growth slowed in the Richmond District and wholesale retail prices increased in the Chicago District. Return to top Retail and TourismRetailers contacted for this round report year-over-year comp-store sales increases ranging between 1 percent and 5 percent. One contact had a low single digit decrease, but notes that sales trends have been improving. Demand is strong for all apparel categories, furniture, sporting goods, and mobile technology. Consumer sentiment continues to pick up, albeit very slowly, and prices at the wholesale and retail levels remain steady. All of the contacts expect continued slow-growth of the U.S. economy. Through May, hotel revenues are up 1.5 percent year-over-year. Restaurant revenues are up 2 percent, slightly better than expected. Contacts attribute these increases to strong corporate business travel and entertaining. There is some softness in domestic leisure travel, as attendance at museums and other attractions is below expectations. Some of this decrease might be due to record-setting rainfall in New England during June. Contacts expect that leisure travel will increase during the summer travel season. Manufacturing and Related ServicesMost of the 13 manufacturers contacted in this round report modest increases in sales. The one firm to report a significant decline in sales, a manufacturer of electric motors and brakes, could not pinpoint any specific reason for the weakness. Europe remains a source of weakness and China continues to inject volatility for manufacturing exports. One contact reports that sales in China of its products going into new commercial construction were up 46 percent in the second quarter. Only one contact, a manufacturer of textile and printing equipment, specifically mentions the evolving macroeconomic policy picture as an issue, saying that everything depends on what happens to interest rates. All but one of our contacts say that their outlook is for stable or higher sales going forward, but none report having raised their forecasts in the recent months. Only one of our contacts cites significant staff reductions, the same firm that notes declining sales. That said, the only firms hiring in any significant way are rapidly growing companies in the technology and life science areas. Most of our contacts, 8 of 13, report no change in employment. All of our contacts, including the one with declining sales, say that their investment plans have not changed and most report the same or higher levels of investment for 2013 as for 2012. Our contact at the firm with declining sales says that they try not to let the business cycle affect investment decisions as, "A good investment is a good investment." As far as pricing is concerned, no one reports anything out of the ordinary. Firms that need to raise prices, typically, appear to be able to do so; some raw materials prices, like copper, are less of an issue than they were a year ago.† Selected Business ServicesConsulting and advertising contacts in the First District report a generally positive, but not exuberant, second quarter. Economic consulting has experienced very strong demand due to growth of high-stakes litigation. Healthcare and pharmaceuticals consulting contacts gave mixed reports, with several contacts reporting robust demand for services related to process efficiency, effectiveness analytics and marketing support, while another reports a slowdown in IT adoption. Strategy consultants had mixed results, with large firms faring better than smaller firms, largely due to greater exposure to the recently booming private equity industry. Marketing and advertising contacts report a slight uptick in growth from an already strong first quarter. Finally, a government contractor reports flat revenue. Contacts report either no cost growth or costs rising roughly in line with 2 percent inflation, with the exception of one firm whose health and business insurance premiums rose 8 percent to 10 percent on an annual basis. Firms were roughly split between those facing pressure to keep rates flat and those with robust enough demand to institute rate hikes of 3 percent to 5 percent on an annual basis. About half of contacts report no net hiring, with the others increasing their workforces by 3 percent to 5 percent, mostly through larger incoming classes of entry-level workers beginning this summer. Firms reporting no net hiring were split between those who are waiting for stronger demand to justify hiring and those who hired rapidly in the recent past and are trying to adjust to their new size. Aside from a government contractor who is too uncertain about the future of fiscal policy to offer any clear forecast, contacts expect growth to either pick up or remain strong for the rest of the year. Aside from the government contractor, contacts were minimally concerned about fiscal issues, the European debt crisis, and the state of the macro economy. Commercial Real EstateCommercial real estate markets in the First District are, for the most part, maintaining a solid footing. In Boston, rents on prime retail properties continue to climb and office rents are described as steady or rising, depending on location. Office leasing volume is holding steady in Hartford, although deals consist largely of short-term lease extensions with no expansion of space needs. Also in the Hartford area, investment sales demand remains strong for multifamily structures, while well-leased office buildings garner growing investor interest. In Providence, office leasing negotiations proceeded slowly as some tenants pushed back against landlords' rising rent demands, and some office sales fell through or stalled in response to June's spike in long-term Treasury rates. Also in response to the latter development, a regional banking contact reports that borrowing rates were raised on some commercial mortgages under negotiation and, moving forward, 10-year fixed-rate loans are likely to become more scarce. However, a Boston contact reports that borrowing rates and capitalization rates on commercial properties held largely steady in recent weeks. The outlook among First District contacts is for slow improvement in fundamentals for the rest of 2013, but some downside risks were noted. For example, a gun manufacturer in Connecticut announced plans to relocate to South Carolina in response to the state's passage of stricter gun-control laws, taking jobs out of the state and vacating a significant amount of commercial space. Other gun manufacturers in the state are reportedly likely to follow suit in the coming months. A seasonal slowdown in leasing volume is expected in Providence for the summer months, and a few contacts across the District mention interest-rate movements as a considerable source of uncertainty for investment sales moving forward.† Residential Real EstateSingle-family home and condominium sales rose throughout the First District in May. Contacts in the region report strong demand for housing, particularly in urban areas of New England. According to contacts, slight increases in interest rates will likely spur more buyer activity in the short term as households try to lock in historically low interest rates. In Massachusetts, particularly in the Greater Boston area, inventory levels remain low, placing upward pressure on prices. Contacts in the Greater Boston area caution that inventory remains the most significant constraint on sales growth. In other parts of the First District, smaller cities report depleting inventory levels in urban centers, though realtors in these areas feel that a sufficient number of homes are available to satisfy prospective buyers. In contrast to much of the region, Rhode Island maintains a high level of inventory, but that market appears to be recovering as sales activity and prices continue to increase. Contacts expect sales activity and the median sale price to continue their upward trend. Inventory levels will likely remain an issue in urban areas due to a lack of new construction there. Contacts anticipate that homeowners may be more inclined to list their home for sale as house values continue to appreciate. Overall, contacts feel the market remains poised for healthy growth in the coming months. Return to top Consumer SpendingRetailers report that sales softened in May and especially in June. One major retail chain reports that same-store sales were little changed from a year earlier, running modestly below plan in May and noticeably below plan in June. Another chain indicates that sales were down noticeably from 2012 levels in both months. In general, New York City stores performed a bit better than those elsewhere in the District--likely buoyed by tourism. Major malls in upstate New York indicate that sales were steady to lower than a year earlier. Most of the retail contacts attribute at least part of the recent softness in sales to unseasonably cold and wet weather. Inventories are generally reported to be at desired levels or a little on the high side. Prices are characterized as steady, and no unusual discounting is reported.† Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales were steady at favorable levels in May and June, and continued to run moderately ahead of comparable 2012 levels. Sales of used automobiles are characterized as soft--in large part because of attractive deals on new autos. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases remain in good shape. Tourism activity has been mixed but generally fairly robust since the last report. Manhattan hotels report continued strong business, with total revenues up 7 percent from a year ago: occupancy rates exceeded 90 percent and were roughly on par with a year ago, room rates were up 3-4 percent, and there are about 3 percent more hotel rooms than a year ago. On the other hand, attendance at Broadway theaters has continued to be weak, reflecting considerably fewer shows running than in the spring of 2012. Finally, consumer confidence in the region has improved since the last report: The Conference Boardís June survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence rising for the third straight month, approaching its five-year high set last October; Siena Collegeís survey of New York State residents shows consumer sentiment rising to its highest level this year in June, led by upstate New York. Construction and Real EstateResidential real estate markets in the District have strengthened further since the last report. Sales prices for Manhattan apartments (co-ops and condos) were up moderately from a year earlier, while sales volume was up nearly 20 percent, further sharply reducing the inventory of units on the market. Rents on Manhattan apartments continue to rise and are running roughly 5 percent ahead of comparable 2012 levels, however, rents have slipped modestly in Brooklyn. New Jerseyís housing market has shown more modest signs of improvement: prices are rising slowly, reportedly restrained by an ongoing backlog of distressed properties on the market. However, new construction activity--particularly of rental apartment buildings--is running substantially ahead of a year ago. Finally, housing market conditions remain particularly strong in western New York State: very tight inventory levels have pushed prices up, and multiple offers and bidding wars have become commonplace, despite continued tight lending standards.† Commercial real estate markets throughout the New York City metropolitan region also showed further improvement in the second quarter. Long Islandís office vacancy rate slipped below 8 percent for the first time in a number of years, while rates in northern New Jersey, Westchester and Fairfield counties edged down but remain on the high side. Office rents are little changed from mid-2012 in these areas. Manhattanís office vacancy rate ticked up but remains low as of mid-year, while asking rents are up roughly 5 percent over the past year. Industrial markets have also tightened, particularly in Long Island, where vacancy rates have declined steadily and asking rents are up nearly 8 percent over the past year.† Other Business ActivityThe labor market continues to improve at a gradual pace. Two major employment agencies describe market fundamentals as favorable but note that the market is difficult to gauge at this typically slow time of year. One contact notes increasing difficulty in finding candidates with specific skill sets--especially for technology workers--and also finds companies becoming less reluctant to negotiate on salaries. This is described as the best year for college graduates since 2008. More generally, manufacturing contacts report a modest increase in staffing levels and some pickup in business activity since the last report but do not expect to hire additional workers through the second half of 2013. Contacts in other sectors also report some pickup in both employment and business activity and do plan to ramp up hiring, as well as capital spending, in the months ahead. Input price pressures have abated further in the manufacturing sector but remain fairly widespread among service-sector businesses. Both manufacturers and service-sector contacts report that selling prices are relatively stable. Financial DevelopmentsBankers report increased demand for commercial mortgages but decreased demand for residential mortgages. For other loan categories, as well as for refinancing, contacts report no change in demand. Respondents also note that credit standards remain unchanged across all loan categories. Bankers indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories--particularly in commercial mortgages. Finally, bankers report decreased delinquency rates for all loan categories, but especially for commercial &amp; industrial loans. Return to top An overall outlook for moderate growth has continued since the last Beige Book. Contacts expressed greater confidence in the consumer and in the sustainability of current trends. Firms remain cautious about hiring and about carrying out their long-term capital expenditure plans. However, firms are more comfortable investing when necessary to replace or upgrade aging equipment and to meet growing demand. ManufacturingSince the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have reported that orders and shipments are rising again. The makers of paper products, rubber products, fabricated metals, industrial machinery, and instruments have reported gains since the last Beige Book. Firms supplying the home-building sector continued to report strong orders and ongoing hiring to keep pace. The makers of food products and electronic equipment reported lower activity (some was seasonal). Reports were mixed for makers of primary metals. Other contacts attributed growing demand to auto-related business and foreign demand. A negative impact from sequestration was cited by some firms, while others said they avoided the worst effects. Firms continued to report restraint in current hiring but a desire to hire more workers in the near future. Across nearly all sectors, Third District manufacturers remained optimistic that business conditions will improve over the next six months. Business plans for the remainder of the year have been lowered slightly for some firms. However, firms appear more confident of ongoing, steady growth and more willing to invest in capacity and hire new workers as needed to keep pace with demand. Overall, firms have significantly increased their expectations of future hiring and their plans for capital spending since the last Beige Book. RetailThird District retailers have reported modest growth--dampened by rainy weather--since the last Beige Book. Contacts described June and July as seasonally slower months, as local residents head off for summer vacations. However, excessive rain in June kept still more people away from stores, while some showed up just to "hang out" at the mall. Mall operators reported that the general retail climate has improved, citing stronger demand for retail space and rising occupancy rates. Auto dealers reported that June sales accelerated to a strong rate of growth. Sales, described as "on fire" for the first couple of weeks of June, may have produced "the best [June sales] in six years." Dealers attributed a better sales climate, in part, to no supply problems, no credit problems, and falling unemployment rates. Dealers are bullish for the next couple of years but continue to hire cautiously. FinanceOverall, Third District financial firms reported modest increases in total loan volume--a slight improvement since the previous Beige Book. Banking contacts cited stronger demand for all major loan categories, including C&amp;I loans, real estate loans, and consumer loans, including credit cards. Consumer lending and home equity loans remained slow, as refinancings remained a preferred option for homeowners. However, contacts reported a decline in refinance applications in the pipeline after rates rose. Meanwhile, increasing sales of new and existing homes are raising demand for home mortgages. Banking contacts continued to report strong competition for loans and concerns about competitors lowering their lending standards. However, most banks reported "improvement in all aspects of business," including "more upgrades of credits" within their own portfolios. Contacts expressed continued optimism for future growth and sensed greater customer confidence. Real Estate and ConstructionHomebuilders throughout most of the Third District continued to report moderate growth. Though traffic and sales were soft in a few markets, most builders are meeting their plan for the year with increases as high as 40 percent. Builders reported no systemic impediments to sales, such as credit availability and mortgage issues. Some builders still face labor shortages for carpentry and framing work, and several contacts have reported a shortage of finished land. Moderate growth of existing home sales continued through June, according to residential brokers. Sales closed and sales pending grew by double digits (year over year) in several larger metropolitan areas in the Third District.† The estimated months' supply of the existing inventory of homes has fallen to near six months in many areas. Brokers say the anticipated shadow inventory of homes has not yet emerged. Nonresidential real estate contacts continued to report little change in the modest pace of overall leasing activity and slight growth of construction. Although the overall climate for new construction "is getting incrementally better," contacts reported a renewed strong push for industrial structures along the I-81 and I-76 corridors throughout eastern Pennsylvania and into central New Jersey. Construction activity also remains greater for multifamily residential units, higher education facilities, and public utility infrastructure. Contacts continued to report heavy competition and thin margins on projects. Overall, contacts remained optimistic for a continuation of slow, steady growth. ServicesThird District service-sector firms continued to report a moderate pace of growth overall. Despite earlier strong bookings, shore destinations in Delaware and New Jersey reported somewhat lower activity (traffic counts, bookings, and boardwalk sales) and cited rainy weather through much of June as one source of the problem. A multimillion dollar advertising campaign has helped boost Jersey Shore activity, but tourism in the areas hardest hit by Hurricane Sandy is still down somewhat more than is necessitated by the actual damage. Casino revenues from Atlantic City and the state of Delaware remain on a downward trend, and reports from Pennsylvania casinos indicate that revenue from slot machines appears to be turning in the same direction. In other sectors, firms cite steady progress--rising consumer confidence, limited cost pressures, and growing sales. A staffing firm reported a slight sag in billable hours for June following strong growth through May year to date. Other service-sector firms reported "incrementally better" growth, tight margins, and cautious hiring. Contacts offer mixed reports on their ability to attract qualified workers while generally citing no wage pressures. Overall, service-sector firms remain optimistic about future growth. Prices and WagesOverall, price levels continued to increase slightly, similar to the previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms reported modest increases for prices paid and prices received. Auto dealers reported no changes in pricing. Homebuilders continued to face tight margins and higher prices for some skilled labor. Most real estate contacts reported stable, if not rising, prices for lower priced homes, and contacts in some markets noted stable prices for higher-priced homes. Contacts from retail, restaurants, and some services indicated that commodity prices have not been a big issue this year as in the recent past. Wage pressures remain constrained, according to most contacts other than homebuilders. Return to top Hiring picked up in manufacturing and residential construction. Staffing firm representatives reported that the number of job openings and placements was fairly steady, with vacancies found primarily in healthcare and manufacturing. Wage pressures remain contained. Input and finished goods prices saw little change, apart from increases in construction materials. ManufacturingReports from†District factories indicated that new orders and production were largely stable or increased during the past six weeks. Companies seeing the strongest activity were suppliers to the residential construction and transportation industries. Compared to a year ago, production levels were mixed. Steel producers and service centers reported that shipping volumes were little changed. Our contacts expressed concern about downward pressure on domestic steel prices, which they attributed to rising imports. Motor vehicle production at District plants held steady during May on a month-over-month basis. Compared to a year ago, auto production rose slightly. Many of our contacts believe that demand will soften during the next couple of months, although part of the expected decline was attributed to seasonal factors. In response, there was some reduction in finished goods inventories. Manufacturers commented that capacity utilization rates have fallen slightly but remain within their normal ranges. Capital expenditures are either on plan or slightly ahead for the fiscal year. Several companies anticipate increasing capital budgets in the upcoming fiscal year to better position themselves for expected growth opportunities. Raw material and finished goods prices were generally flat or trended lower. Steel producers who attempted to raise their prices met with limited success. Factories expanded payrolls at a modest pace, although finding qualified production and salaried personnel was difficult. Wage pressures are contained. Real EstateSales of new single-family homes were down slightly in June when compared to earlier in the spring, although they remain above year-ago levels. Construction starts also fell slightly. One contractor commented that the recent decline in sales is not abnormal for this time of year. Traffic and inquiries were described as much better relative to last year. New home contracts were found mostly in the mid- to higher-price-point categories. Demand for multifamily housing was strong. Builders were confident that the turnaround in the housing market will persist in the upcoming months. Nonetheless, they cited difficulty in obtaining financing and a lack of buildable lots as barriers to more robust growth. List prices of new homes increased by as much as 5 percent in certain markets this year due primarily to rising costs for land, building materials, and to a lesser extent, labor. Home builders have cut back on discounting. Sale prices of existing single-family homes continued to rise across the District on a year-over-year basis, but the rate of increase is somewhat lower than the national average. Nonresidential builders have seen a small improvement in business conditions since our last report. Inquiries have picked up and backlogs are slowly rising. The strongest activity was on the commercial side, especially in distribution and warehousing. Bank financing is difficult to obtain, so many smaller projects are being funded with cash. Our contacts are hopeful that the improvement in business conditions they have recently experienced will continue at the same pace or accelerate during the remainder of this year. We heard many comments about large price increases for building materials, especially lumber, drywall, and concrete, though the rate of increase has slowed during the past month. Home builders reported moderate hiring, especially for office personnel, while nonresidential builders limited their hiring to seasonal help. Wage pressures are contained. General contractors are concerned about the availability of qualified subcontractors if demand in the construction sector begins growing at a robust pace. Consumer SpendingRetailers described May sales as lackluster and noted that they fell below plan. However, sales were fairly even with the same month a year ago. Some of our contacts cited poor weather conditions for holding down consumer spending. Looking ahead, third-quarter sales are expected to be modestly higher when compared to those in the second quarter. A few contacts reported that their inventories were slightly higher than desired. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year. Monies are allocated primarily for store improvements and expansions. No hiring is anticipated, except for staffing new stores.† Year-to-date sales of new motor vehicles showed a moderate increase during May compared to the same time period a year ago. Buyers preferred smaller, fuel-efficient vehicles; however, purchases of large pickup trucks trended higher, especially in the eastern half of the District. New vehicle inventories are rising, but a majority of dealers said that they are satisfied with their inventory positions. Our contacts are fairly optimistic about sales prospects for the remainder of the year. Dealers pointed to pent-up consumer demand and the option to lease vehicles as reasons for their optimism. Used-vehicle purchases rose during the past six weeks. Inventory is building as lease rollovers start to come in. Prices for quality used cars remain high. Dealer investment in facility upgrades and expansions has increased as they grow more confident about the sustainability of higher sales volume. Dealers are looking to hire a small number of personnel, though some have postponed hiring decisions as they gauge the effectiveness of new technology that is being integrated into their selling model. BankingDemand for commercial real estate and multi family construction loans has picked up since our last report, while requests for other business loan categories were little changed. Almost all bankers reported aggressive credit-pricing pressure. Consumer credit demand rose slightly, especially for auto loans and home equity products. Residential mortgage activity remains relatively strong. Several bankers attributed a decline in refinancing to a rise in interest rates. New purchase mortgages are trending higher. No changes were made to loan-application standards. Aggregate core deposits grew at a steady pace, with a movement from CDs to demand deposits still taking place. There were a few reports about workforce reductions and shifting personnel as a means of cutting costs. EnergyDistrict coal production remains below year-ago levels, although the downward trend seen during the first five months of 2013 was showing signs of leveling off. Producers reported that demand from domestic utility companies is up slightly, while offshore demand is slowing (Asia) or stagnant (Europe). Spot prices for steam-coal rose slightly, whereas metallurgical coal prices were flat. The number of drilling rigs across the District has fallen significantly since the beginning of the year; however, the state of Ohio continued to issue shale gas drilling permits at a robust pace. Output from conventional and unconventional gas wells was stable during the past couple of months, while oil production picked up slightly. Well-head prices were little changed. Capital expenditures remain at targeted levels. On balance, little change was seen in production equipment and material prices. Energy payrolls and labor costs were flat. Freight TransportationOur contacts reported that shipping volume remains higher than expected, but the rate of growth has slowed since our last report. Freight executives are positive, but cautious about growth prospects for the near term. Of particular concern is how the new hours of service regulations (HOS) that went into effect on July 1 will play out. Our contacts believe that the primary impact of HOS will be on the availability of drivers and the ability of shipping companies to effectively schedule those drivers. Potential reductions in capacity will tend to drive up shipping costs. Prices for equipment and maintenance items were stable. Capital spending is on plan for the fiscal year. Monies are used mainly for tractor/trailer replacement and capacity expansion. The industry is still experiencing a shortage of drivers and skilled mechanics. The former may worsen under the new HOS regulations. Return to top ManufacturingManufacturers expressed cautious optimism in the weeks since our last report, as activity in that sector strengthened modestly. Shipments and new orders rose, and the average workweek increased. Despite the improved conditions, producers preferred to use cash to update technology and existing infrastructure, rather than undertake expansion. A plastics manufacturer commented that his company was purchasing new machinery in response to increased work levels, and he saw industrial confidence as being up, but still cautious. A lumber company executive said he will not hire new full-time employees until next year, but that, so far, this has been his best year since 2007. Moreover, according to a representative of several manufacturers, some firms have gone to two shifts and further growth is expected for the second half of this year as backlogs build. Even so, he described confidence as "fragile, and nobody takes it for granted." Federal spending reductions, tax changes, and slower overseas demand affected some manufacturers. A manufacturer of packaging materials commented, "There is a light at the end of the tunnel, but it only flickers at times." Price growth increased for raw materials and finished goods, according to our latest survey of manufacturers. PortsPort volumes were little changed overall in recent weeks. Lumber imports picked up, while imports of auto parts and auto assembly inputs softened slightly from very high volumes. Imports and exports of autos remained strong. Exports of containerized agricultural products rose, particularly logs and animal feed inputs, while exports of wheat sprouts declined. Energy-related exports and agricultural equipment were solid, with agricultural equipment peaking in late spring as usual, albeit somewhat below year-ago record levels. Overall, coal exports were unchanged. Port administrators expected seasonal increases in the weeks ahead for back-to-school and holiday imports. RetailRetail sales strengthened slightly in recent weeks, helped by big-ticket sales. A wholesaler of heavy construction equipment commented that his firm had seen significant improvement. Additionally, a contact at a large auto and light truck dealership remarked that sales volume was strong and the market was extremely competitive. He noted that new vehicle sales were being driven by full-size pickups that are typically purchased by homebuilders and construction-related services businesses. Used car sales were exceptionally strong and some dealers had shortages of used vehicles. A report from a large department store chain said that cold and damp weather, along with the payroll tax change, had constrained sales. Retail price growth slowed since our last report. ServicesNon-retail services firms reported steady to stronger activity. Telecommunications firms, accountants, and a firm specializing in software design for clinical use reported rising revenues. Hospital consolidation remained "intense," according to a contact in North Carolina. Non-retail prices rose more slowly in this reporting period. Tourism picked up. Bookings rose in the Tidewater, Virginia region. Additionally, a hotel manager in western North Carolina noted that his bookings have risen compared to a year ago and that expectations were for continued year-over-year growth for the remainder of this year. A contact on the outer banks of North Carolina reported general optimism and added that cutbacks in government funding for tourist sites have led to increased fund-raising events, such as concerts. Rates were little changed. FinanceBanking activity increased slightly since our last assessment. Demand for residential mortgages was up in most markets and bankers across the Fifth District commented that there had been a noticeable shift toward new purchases and away from refinancing. A Virginia banker proclaimed that "refinancing had died," although a lender in South Carolina said that refinancing still made up the majority of his residential mortgage business. However, some customers no longer qualified for loan refinancing due to higher rates. Similarly, "the phone rang more often" for a Virginia banker while a lender in Maryland reported that people were waiting to see what rates would do. Demand for residential construction loans rose in South Carolina. Commercial and industrial loan demand was flat to slightly higher. There were several loans in the pipeline at a West Virginia bank, most of which were for new structures (i.e., office buildings, car showrooms, and a retirement community). However, higher interest rates caused some deals to be reevaluated and put on hold or pulled. Contacts also stated that clients were surprised at the higher rates and that businesses were trying to figure out how best to budget for them. Real EstateResidential real estate sales expanded. Two Washington, D.C. area agents reported that it was now routine to see multiple offers for a home, as well as escalator clauses in those contracts. Another contact in the region said that home repair and specialized construction were benefitting from strength in the housing market. Due in part to its proximity to D.C. and Baltimore, home sales in the eastern panhandle of West Virginia finally saw some improvement. In addition, home sales in western North Carolina were up, causing inventories to erode and speculative building to resume. Inventories were also low in the Charlotte region where home sales and prices had both increased. Lastly, a source on the eastern shore of Maryland stated that appraisals were below the sales price of homes in some areas. Commercial real estate and construction markets were little changed overall in recent weeks. Demand for commercial real estate in Washington. D.C. continued to be scarce as people were "waiting on the sidelines" to see what would happen with the economy and government spending. In addition, one large business in the D.C. area sold its buildings and turned to renting space while another shifted out of large leased spaces and consolidated into buildings owned by the firm. There were conflicting reports from our North Carolina contacts about multi-family housing: one reported there was now some overbuilding while another said there was still a lot of strength in this type of housing. This latter sentiment was echoed by a report from the Tidewater area of Virginia indicating that multi-family was doing well and stalled projects were coming back on line. Contacts in other parts of the state reported that lot inventory was low or "almost nil." Retail, office, and industrial leasing activity was steady in Virginia and West Virginia while rental rates edged up in Charlotte and Richmond. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesRecent reports on agricultural conditions were mixed. While a South Carolina farm loan banker reported that the wet weather earlier in the year "started the crop season off in a positive light," other reports from South Carolina and Virginia indicated that the rains delayed planting and even resulted in one farmer planting soybeans and cotton instead of corn. In addition, a South Carolina contact noted that heavy rains had damaged the regional wheat crop to the extent that sprouts were unacceptable for export. A North Carolina source also noted a recent shift to cotton over corn, due to declining corn prices. Nevertheless, another source remarked that agricultural lending was "booming" and demand for wood products continued to rise. Natural gas production--particularly shale gas--continued to increase in West Virginia. Moreover, one shale plant was less than fully staffed because of a worker shortage. Although rig counts were down nationwide, West Virginia was one of five states that recently saw an increase in rig counts. Coal production remained steady in recent weeks though well below a year ago. Coal lay-offs in southern West Virginia were expected to come later this year. Labor MarketsConditions in the District labor market were somewhat better since our last report. Employment rose in several industries, including home repair and construction, hotels, and medical software. In addition, a contact from a temp agency in North Carolina reported there was high demand for technology professionals, particularly for healthcare-related IT, as well as accounting, finance, and real estate. He added that contingent labor was in much greater demand than full-time employees due to uncertainty about the economy; another source said that small businesses were going out of their way to avoid the long-term commitment of permanent hiring. In contrast, a web consulting firm in Virginia and a social assistance organization in North Carolina planned to add employees. Also, a staffing agency in South Carolina reported weak demand for labor, and two electrical equipment manufacturers laid off employees. According to our latest surveys, wage growth picked up in the manufacturing sector, remained robust at non-retail establishments, and flattened at retail businesses. †Return to top Retailers noted mixed sales results and vehicle sales grew at a robust pace. The hospitality sector continued to experience strong demand. Most brokers and homebuilders reported increases in sales and prices, and declining home inventories. Commercial contractors cited improvement in overall demand and a slight increase in construction. Manufacturing firms indicated that activity grew, albeit at a slower rate than in our previous report. Loan demand remained stable for residential real estate, while loans for autos outside of the dealership remained constrained by competitive offers from auto manufacturers. Employment growth for the District was modest. Firms remarked that stable input prices have helped improve profit margins slightly. Consumer Spending and TourismReports from District retailers were mixed. While most merchants experienced modest growth, growth was lower than expected in some cases. Some attributed lackluster sales to weather conditions. Auto dealers continued to experience strong growth. Travel and tourism activity continued to exceed expectations. Contacts throughout the District reported that key indicators of demand (visitation, hotel occupancy, average daily rate, and revenue per available room) and profitability were positive and steadily rising. In spite of increases in accommodation rates, demand remained strong with advanced bookings for the next three to six months increasing to levels above those from a year ago. With strong convention and group meeting activity planned for the remainder of 2013 and positive lead volume for 2014, District hospitality contacts anticipate the positive momentum of 2013 to continue in 2014. Real Estate and ConstructionDistrict brokers continued to report that existing home sales remained ahead of last year's level were mostly ahead of expectations. However, brokers still report that inventories remain at low levels, and thereby restraining sales. Shortages were also said to be putting upward pressure on home prices. Existing home prices continued to rise on a year-over-year basis. The outlook for sales growth remained positive, with the majority of brokers anticipating sales gains over the next several months. District homebuilders reported that new home sales and construction were ahead of year earlier levels. Recent activity was mostly in line with expectations and buyer traffic remained strong. However, builders noted that access to financing and a shortage of developed lots continued to constrain construction activity. Most contacts reported that new home inventories were below the year earlier level and prices rose modestly. The outlook for construction and new home sales remained positive, but the outlook for growth moderated somewhat compared with our last report.† District commercial real estate contacts indicated that demand continued to improve from earlier in the year. Construction activity was described as flat to slightly up from earlier this year and was dominated by build-to-suit projects and renovations of existing space. While a wider variety of projects seems to be in the works compared with a year ago, activity was still concentrated in medical office space, certain types of retail, and apartments. Commercial brokers indicated that demand for space improved at a modest pace. Brokers reported that most markets still favored tenants; however, rate increases continued to be noted in select submarkets. The outlook among District commercial real estate contacts remained positive with further improvements expected this year.† Manufacturing and TransportationRegional manufacturers reported expanding activity; however, the rate of growth slowed as a result of a decrease in new orders, production, and finished inventory. Contacts reported a slight decline in commodities prices and some expressed that inventories may build in some sectors as manufacturers take advantage of favorable prices. Less than half of purchasing managers expect production to be higher in the next three to six months, slightly lower than our previous report. District port contacts cited notable year-over-year growth in container trade, autos and machinery, and bulk cargoes, including a significant increase in the exporting of natural gas. Trucking companies cited a rise in shipments of building construction materials, as well as chemicals; however, capacity remained constrained due to driver shortages. Total year-to-date railroad volumes were reported to be flat through June, but significant activity was noted for petroleum-related products and other chemicals, forest, lumber and wood products, and metallurgical coal. Banking and FinanceSome institutions reported a pickup in mortgage loan demand attributed to improved housing markets and increasing interest rates. They also indicated that while mortgage refinancing had slowed, new purchase loan demand had increased. Demand for automobile loans declined as banks and credit unions noted they could not compete with zero percent deals from auto manufacturers. Some bankers indicated vigorous competition for loans has led them to change loan features, such as relaxing guarantee requirements or covering a substantial chunk of closing costs. Local community bank contacts had eased up on covenants and guarantees and were willing to take more risks, particularly when a loan fit a category in which they were interested. Some businesses were courted with offers to refinance debt with eased covenants and restrictions, while others indicated financing was still a major impediment to new construction projects and securing funding remained difficult. Employment and PricesSince the last report, District payrolls grew at a modest pace. Tennessee experienced moderate payroll gains in retail, trade and transportation, professional and business services, and manufacturing. Alabama continued to see hiring in hospitality services, most notably in accommodation and food services. Louisiana added jobs in construction, and education and healthcare. All District states saw payroll contractions in their government sectors, with the exception of Mississippi, which showed a mild gain at the state government level. In general, most input costs remained relatively stable, helping to support slightly stronger profit margins in the face of improving, but still below pre-recession sales levels. Some notable exceptions were costs related to construction materials such as lumber, concrete, and drywall, which increased for a number of contacts. The Atlanta Fed's Business Inflation Expectations survey showed year-ahead unit cost expectations ticking down from 2 to 1.8 percent in June, marking the lowest reading since January. Natural Resources and AgricultureRegional oil and gas activity remained robust. Significant capital investment continued in liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities along the Gulf Coast. Expansion projects on existing refineries were noted as moving along, marking the first time such investments have been made in twenty years. There were some comments that high costs to transport oil and gas by rail, barge, and truck were exerting upward pressure on prices for refined products. Contacts also indicated that capacity for oil and natural gas products remained abundant and that domestic demand for energy products was beginning to rise for the season. Since our last report, soil throughout much of the District improved to more favorable, drier conditions. Pasture conditions improved as well. †Monthly prices paid to farmers were up for cotton, soybeans, corn for grain, rice, citrus, hogs, and broilers. During this same period, beef prices were down slightly, but still moderately higher than this time last year. Return to top Consumer SpendingGrowth in consumer spending increased in June. Contacts attributed the pick-up in the pace of growth to recent gains in consumer confidence, an increase in auto dealer incentives and other retail promotions, and the rebounding housing market. Auto sales increased at a faster rate than non-auto retail sales. Auto dealers reported strong sales of both pick-up trucks and small passenger cars, as well as an increase in activity in the leasing market. For non-auto retail sales, contacts noted that high-end retailers and discount stores both continued to fare better than middle market retailers. Business SpendingGrowth in business spending also picked up in June. Spending on equipment and software increased slightly, as did spending on structures. A few contacts reported an increase in merger and acquisitions activity, but noted that deals were being delayed by uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook. Inventory investment was also impacted by elevated uncertainty. Retail contacts reported that inventories remained tight, as many retailers were planning to wait until after the back-to-school season to re-assess the state of demand and before placing the bulk of their holiday orders. Manufacturers were also limiting inventory investment, with a contact noting that steel service centers were liquidating inventories given weak demand. Labor market conditions continued to improve slowly. Demand for skilled workers remained relatively stronger, particularly for healthcare, information technology, engineering, and other technical occupations. Manufacturing contacts, however, were generally more cautious in their hiring plans, with some layoffs reported in industries where activity has slowed considerably in recent months. In addition, several retailers reported that the Affordable Care Act would lead to more part-time and temporary versus full-time hiring. Construction and Real SstateConstruction and real estate activity continued to increase gradually in June. Demand for residential construction grew steadily, as multifamily construction remained strong and single-family construction continued to improve. A homebuilder noted that while new single-family development remained limited, improvement of vacant lots in existing developments was increasing. Activity in the residential real estate market continued to increase as well, with home sales, prices, and rents rising. Nonresidential construction grew at a modest pace, driven in large part by the ongoing expansion of the auto industry. However, a contact noted that planned upgrades to auto supplier facilities were nearly complete; and that with auto production getting back to pre-recession levels, any additional capacity expansion was likely to be incremental. Commercial real estate conditions continued to improve as rents rose slowly and vacancies fell. ManufacturingManufacturing production increased in June. The auto industry continued to be a source of strength, with the traditional summer shut-down period scaled back this year to meet the increase in customer demand. Vehicle demand was strong across all sectors, and auto industry contacts reported growing confidence that activity will remain robust in the second half of the year. Steel production again grew at a moderate pace, and specialty metal manufacturers reported a modest improvement in new orders and order backlogs. In contrast, demand for heavy equipment remained soft, although contacts anticipated a slight improvement in the remaining months of the year. Mining activity continued to weaken, and contacts expressed concern over the effect environmental regulations would have on the coal mining industry moving forward. Demand for construction equipment picked up some as the housing market continued to improve. Banking and FinanceCredit conditions tightened moderately over the reporting period. Volatility increased across a number of asset classes and corporate borrowing costs rose. Financial market participants noted lower activity in fixed income markets, particularly the high-yield corporate debt market. Banking contacts cited less demand among their larger clients for leveraged financing, and continued uneven growth in the middle market driven mostly by refinancing of existing debt. Credit standards remained roughly unchanged, although contacts reported additional downward pressure on pricing. In contrast, consumer loan demand increased over the reporting period, particularly for auto lending.†With the recent increase in mortgage rates, mortgage refinancing slowed, but contacts again noted an increase in new mortgage originations.† Prices and CostsCost pressures remained mild in June. Commodity prices continued to trend lower, although some contacts noted increases in the prices paid for concrete, drywall, metals such as steel and copper, and energy goods and services. Retailers again reported mostly modest increases in wholesale prices; and, overall, pass-through to downstream prices was limited. Wage pressures remained moderate, although many contacts again noted rising healthcare and other benefit costs. Some of these higher costs were being passed on to employees. AgricultureCrop conditions improved over the course of the reporting period, with the crop ending the period in better shape than a year ago. District farmers managed to get their crops in the ground despite additional planting delays caused by the unseasonably wet weather. Only a small percentage of acres will not grow a crop, where water pooled in low-lying areas and replanting was not possible. Fruit crops could produce record yields this year, in sharp contrast with the large losses seen a year ago. With stocks of corn and soybeans expected to remain at very low levels until the fall harvest, corn and soybean prices moved higher. The increase in feed costs negatively affected livestock operations, and contacts noted that it would lead to careful management of feed purchases until anticipated declines in crop prices are likely to materialize following a potentially record fall harvest. The first cutting of hay was mostly complete and was much better than last year. Supported by rejuvenated pastures, milk output also increased. Milk prices were roughly unchanged during the reporting period, while hog prices surged, and cattle prices were lower. Return to top Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityReports of manufacturing activity plans have been positive since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported significant plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities in the Eighth District, while a smaller number of manufacturers reported plans to reduce their employee count. Firms in automobile, automobile parts, lumber, bakery, petroleum refining, and firearm manufacturing plan to hire new employees and expand operations in the Eighth District. In contrast, firms that manufacture boats, housewares, turbines, and medical equipment reported plans to lay off workers in the District. Reports of plans in the District's service sector have also been positive since the previous report. Firms in television, prescription benefits management, electronics retail, residential care, utility, consulting, and automobile sales services reported new hiring and expansion plans in District states. In contrast, firms in transportation, financial, food wholesale, healthcare, and security services plan to lay-off employees. Reports from retail contacts were generally positive. There were more new retail store openings than store closings. However, many retail contacts noted that year-to-date sales were below expectations, and contacts were cautiously optimistic about sales for the remainder of 2013. Finally, sales reports from auto dealers were generally positive, citing increased sales for new and used cars as well as plans to open new dealership locations. Real Estate and ConstructionHome sales have continued to increase throughout most of the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, May 2013 year-to-date home sales were up 17 percent in Louisville, 24 percent in Little Rock, 8 percent in Memphis, and 14 percent in St. Louis. May 2013 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the majority of the District metro areas compared with the same period in 2012. Permits increased 18 percent in Louisville, 23 percent in Memphis, and 18 percent in St. Louis. Permits decreased 3 percent in Little Rock. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have continued to improve moderately throughout most of the District. A contact in Memphis reported that commercial and industrial real estate activity continued to strengthen. A contact in Louisville noted a strong demand in industrial real estate. Contacts in St. Louis reported that downtown office leasing appeared to bottom out compared with last year. A contact in northwest Arkansas also reported that commercial real estate activity was moving in the right direction. Commercial and industrial construction activity continued to improve throughout most of the District. A contact in south central Kentucky reported several commercial construction plans in Bowling Green, while a contact in central Arkansas noted a few retail construction projects. In contrast, contacts in Memphis and Louisville commented that industrial construction activity was low. Banking and FinanceTotal loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized District banks increased 1.8 percent from mid-March to mid-June. Real estate lending, which accounts for 73.4 percent of total loans, increased 0.9 percent. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.7 percent of total loans, increased 0.7 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 4.7 percent of total loans, increased 1.9 percent. All other loans, accounting for 6.2 percent of total loans, increased 15.3 percent. During this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 0.8 percent. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAt the end of June, the condition of over 90 percent of the cotton, corn, soybeans, sorghum, and rice crops was rated as fair or better in all the District states. Furthermore, at least 70 percent of total pastureland across the District states was rated in good or excellent condition. The winter wheat harvest was behind its 5-year average and behind the progress made by the same time last year. Year-to-date coal production for the District states at the end of May was lower than the same period last year because of lackluster production in Illinois, Missouri, Tennessee, and Indiana. In contrast, year-to-date coal production in Arkansas was 55 percent higher than the same period last year. Return to top Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending increased modestly. A Minnesota-based bar and restaurant chain noted that sales were up moderately during May and June compared with a year ago. A mall manager in North Dakota reported that sales increased modestly while traffic decreased slightly during late May and June; apparel sales were particularly slow. Meanwhile, a Minnesota-based apparel retailer recently reported strong gains in same-store sales. Minnesota vehicle sales were up from a year ago during May and June with truck sales particularly strong, according to a representative of an auto dealers association. While wet and cool weather slowed May and June tourism-related activities in some areas, tourism businesses were optimistic for the summer season. New boat registrations in Minnesota were down 17 percent in 2013 compared with the same time period in 2012. Nevertheless, a Minnesota state tourism office survey of lodging and camping businesses in the state showed that 38 percent expect higher occupancy this summer with 46 percent expecting level occupancy. After a slow start to the summer season, lodging reservations and traffic to tourism destinations in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan have picked up. In Montana, lodging and visits to attractions during the first part of summer were up from last year. Construction and Real EstateCommercial construction activity continued to increase since the last report. The value of June commercial permits in Billings, Mont., increased significantly from last year, while hotel building rose to $6 million in June compared with zero in the first six months of 2012. A manager of an industrial real estate company noted increased interest in building warehouses on speculation because some purchase prices for existing structures are higher than the cost of building new. Several national retailers are opening new stores this year in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. However, in Sioux Falls, S.D., the value of June permits was down from a year ago. Residential construction increased at a fast pace over past year. The value of June single-family residential building permits in Billings was up 28 percent from last year; multifamily building also increased significantly. The value of June residential permits in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area was up by 19 percent from June of 2012, while it fell in Sioux Falls. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. The University of St. Thomas semiannual survey (May) of 50 Minneapolis-St. Paul commercial real estate leaders noted higher rents, occupancy, land prices and building material costs. Minneapolis-St. Paul area second quarter vacancy rates dropped from the first quarter for retail and industrial space, according to a research firm. Residential real estate market activity increased at a robust pace. May home sales were up 13 percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 22 percent, and median sale prices rose 15 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, June home sales were up 16 percent, inventory was down 15 percent and the median sale price increased 5 percent relative to a year earlier. ServicesActivity at professional business services firms increased since the last report. In Minneapolis, a technology consulting firm reported a recent expansion and an intellectual property protection firm is expanding. A lawyer at a Minnesota-based firm noted an uptick in corporate legal work. ManufacturingThe District manufacturing sector continued to expand since the last report. A June survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that more manufacturing firms increased activity in Minnesota and the Dakotas than in previous months. An electronic equipment producer is moving forward on a plant in Minnesota. Another Minnesota firm that makes cable for utilities and telecommunications companies reported strong sales during the past few months. Several contacts in the metal forming business reported that they were having very strong years, with a few reporting their best year ever. A firm that supplies capital equipment to that industry is seeing strong demand; the auto sector was a particular source of strength. Energy and MiningActivity in the energy sector increased moderately, while mining activity was sluggish. Late-June oil and gas exploration activity increased slightly in North Dakota from the last report and was flat in Montana. A Minnesota utility announced plans for $1.8 billion in upgrades to existing nuclear power plants. Recent output at District iron ore mines was below year-earlier levels. However, development will resume on a stalled copper-nickel mine project in the Upper Peninsula after the mine was sold to another company. AgricultureThe agricultural sector weakened since the last report. District farmers made progress after a late spring, but remain behind the five-year average for corn and soybean plantings due to recent heavy rains. In some areas, farmers are expected to switch from corn to soybeans due to the weather. Prices increased from a year earlier for wheat, corn, soybeans, chickens, milk, hogs, cattle and eggs; prices fell for turkeys and dry beans. The late plantings, along with concerns about warmer and drier weather later this summer, caused the USDA to increase its corn price forecast slightly, though prices are still expected to decrease from current levels. Employment, Wages, and PricesLabor markets continued to tighten slightly. In North Dakota, a health care administrative services firm plans to hire 375 new employees by September. A wind tower manufacturer recently announced plans to hire 250 workers in South Dakota when site construction is completed next year. A pipeline company plans to add 110 jobs in Minnesota. May Minnesota unemployment insurance claims were down 2 percent from a year earlier; data in recent months have averaged close to prerecession levels. However, a cellular phone company recently announced plans to lay off 50 employees at a plant in North Dakota. A software distributor announced plans to move its corporate headquarters out of Minnesota, eliminating 150 jobs in the state. In May, federal government employment in Minnesota was at its lowest level in more than 20 years, while state government employment was at its lowest level since January 2008. Wage increases were moderate. According to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) Area Quarterly Business Report, 52 percent of respondents expect to increase compensation over the next six months, while 45 percent expect no change. In last year's survey, 38 percent expected to increase compensation, while 58 percent expected no change. Price increases were subdued since the last report. A Minnesota-based food producer noted that it expects input cost inflation of 3 percent this year. Metals prices decreased over the past month. Minnesota gasoline prices decreased 90 cents per gallon from a spike in prices at the end of May; recent prices were about the same as a year ago. Return to top Consumer SpendingConsumer spending edged up in June, with increased tourism and restaurant spending, but little change in automobile and retail sales. Contacts in most sectors expected consumer spending to improve over the next three months. District retail sales were flat over the survey period. Purchases of large ticket items, such as appliances, slowed relative to lower-priced goods. Tourism activity and hotel occupancy rates both rose relative to the last survey period, but were similar to levels a year ago. Average daily room rates were unchanged and were expected to remain the same in the coming months. Restaurant sales ticked up since the last survey, and respondents expected similar levels of activity over the next few months. Automobile dealers reported sales were steady and above year-ago levels, but inventories continued to increase. The majority of dealers still expected faster sales growth in the coming months. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityManufacturing activity contracted slightly in June, while high-tech activity rose and transportation was flat. A number of factories reported production delays and shipment interruptions due to recent regional storms and flooding. Activity was especially weak among producers of food and machinery. However, expectations for future factory activity continued to increase. High-tech service firms reported that sales improved during the survey period, but activity was expected to be flat over the next three months. Transportation activity and capital expenditures were unchanged in June compared to the previous survey period. Transportation firms reported difficulty finding qualified drivers, and some anticipated increased costs due to compliance with the Affordable Care Act. Real Estate and ConstructionResidential real estate activity remained robust, while commercial real estate activity ticked up in June. Residential real estate sales continued to rise. Prices continued on an upward trend while inventories were somewhat lower compared to the prior survey period. Contacts in some District markets reported that low inventories slowed sales and put upward pressure on prices. Views on the likely impact of rising interest rates were mixed. Some contacts expected that recent increases in mortgage rates would encourage more people to buy before rates increased further, while others anticipated a reduction in activity. Recent storm damage to homes in some parts of the District was also expected to add to the demand for housing in those areas. Residential builders reported solid construction activity, with expectations for further modest growth. Commercial real estate activity ticked up during the past month, as construction activity continued to strengthen. Sales prices held steady, and vacancy rates fell further in some areas. Contacts expected stronger activity in coming months, but several noted uncertainty around rising interest rates. BankingBankers reported slightly stronger overall loan demand, moderately improved loan quality, and slightly lower deposit levels. Respondents reported stable demand for commercial real estate and consumer installment loans. Demand for commercial and industrial loans increased, while demand for residential real estate loans declined. Nearly all bankers reported slight improvements in loan quality compared to a year ago. They also expected loan quality to marginally improve over the next six months. Credit standards remained unchanged in all major loan categories and respondents reported slightly lower deposits.† AgricultureAgricultural production expectations improved somewhat with recent rains, but varied regionally. Summer storms eased dry conditions in eastern parts of the District, though drought persisted in western regions. The winter wheat harvest was underway or complete in Oklahoma and Kansas with highly variable yields depending on the extent of drought and freeze damage. Despite expectations of a poor wheat harvest in some areas, wheat prices fell since the last survey period. The corn and soybean crops, however, were rated in mostly good or better condition with the improved soil moisture. Although corn and soybean prices remained historically high, improved growing conditions led to a drop in expected harvest prices for both crops. Feedlot operators struggled with high input costs and falling cattle prices, but losses narrowed for hog producers after a rebound in hog prices. Cropland values moved higher but were expected to hold steady during the growing season. EnergyDistrict energy activity held steady over the survey period. Overall, drilling activity remained stable for both oil and natural gas in June. With oil prices elevated and natural gas prices low, drilling activity was expected to continue to shift away from natural gas to oil. However, energy contacts expected oil and natural gas drilling to accelerate over the next few months. Wyoming coal production was unchanged in June, but demand has weakened over the past year. Ethanol production continued to edge higher, and inventories trended down as profitability in the sector improved modestly. Wages and PricesWage pressures remained low during June, and prices were generally unchanged during the survey period. The percentage of firms reporting labor shortages increased slightly, but recent wage increases remained modest. Firms reported strong demand for long haul drivers, delivery drivers, skilled auto technicians and hotel housekeeping staff. Retail prices were steady during June, and retailers did not expect to raise prices over the next three months. Menu prices and food costs were flat during the survey period. Food costs were expected to rise over the next three months, but most restaurants did not anticipate passing the increases through to consumers. Raw material prices for manufacturers were unchanged in June, but expectations did move up moderately. Finished goods prices increased slightly, but manufacturers projected future finished goods prices would be lower. Construction supply firms and builders reported that prices for construction materials were unchanged and neither expected prices to rise over the next three months. Similarly, transportation firms responded that input prices were flat. Return to top PricesMost responding firms said prices were stable, although there were some reports of increases. Airline ticket prices rose slightly because of summer demand, and transportation service firms expect shipping rates to increase due to a recent upturn in jet fuel prices. Home prices rose rapidly as demand continued to outstrip supply. Financial institutions reported a notable rise in mortgage rates. Accounting contacts said billing rates stabilized after earlier increases were successfully implemented. Retail prices were unchanged since the last report. Oil prices rose slightly over the reporting period. Natural gas prices fell below $4 per mcf. Gasoline prices edged down and diesel prices increased. Labor MarketEmployment held steady at most responding firms, although there were more reports of hiring than at the time of the last report. Nominal employment increases were reported by retailers, and hiring was noted by some primary metals and cement manufacturers. Accounting and legal firms continued to add workers in selected business areas. A railroad contact reported employment growth, but the hiring was concentrated outside the Eleventh District. Difficulty finding qualified workers became more widespread, with scattered reports among accounting, finance, single-family construction, auto sales, and primary metals manufacturing firms, as well as from retailers in the Eagle Ford Shale area. Wage pressures remained mostly subdued, although increased compensation was reported in accounting and legal services. ManufacturingManufacturing activity improved slightly over the reporting period. Construction-related manufacturers said demand was flat or up, and a cement producer noted very strong demand from residential construction, allowing the company to choose which projects to take on. Outlooks were more optimistic than in prior periods. Primary metals manufacturers said demand held steady at strong levels, although there wasnít much enthusiasm regarding the remainder of the year. An exception was commercial construction-related demand, which is expected to pick up. Fabricated metals firms noted improved demand and positive outlooks. High tech orders and production were flat to slightly up since the last report. Semiconductor manufacturers reported some improvement in demand for memory equipment but weakness for logic devices. Demand is expected to be flat in the second half of the year, although there was increased concern that orders may weaken. Paper manufacturers said demand was less volatile than earlier in the year, and business is expected to stay roughly at current levels in the near-term. Food producers said demand held steady and outlooks remained positive. Transportation manufacturing contacts reported steady or slightly increased demand, with business generally improved from a year ago. Most firms expect strong demand through year end. Petrochemical producers noted some pickup in activity since the last report, although most markets were stable. Contacts remained positive in their domestic outlooks, but global weakness was weighing on the overall picture. Refiners said operating rates and margins were up over the reporting period. Retail SalesRetail sales volumes held steady over the reporting period and were up from a year ago. Outlooks for the rest of the year were positive, with growth expected to continue at about the same pace as in the first half. Automobile sales were slightly softer than six weeks ago but remained strong. Demand was up year over year. Selling prices held steady at very competitive levels over the reporting period. Outlooks for the third quarter were optimistic, and contacts expect the rest of 2013 to be strong. However, there was continued concern about rising costs, particularly from the Affordable Care Act. Nonfinancial ServicesMost nonfinancial services firms noted increased demand since the last report, although staffing services contacts offered mixed reports: high-level IT workers and engineering project managers were in high demand, while demand weakened for lower-skilled positions. One staffing services firm saw more placements at the end of the quarter than usual. Accounting firms reported a strong increase in demand since the last Beige Book, led by transactions work. There was a good backlog of work, so contacts are expecting a strong third quarter. Legal firms noted modest demand growth, but work was down year-over-year on a per-lawyer basis. Real estate work continued to rise, although lawyers became somewhat concerned about interest rate risk. Contacts noted a lack of litigation work, and demand for energy work experienced a little softness although it remained strong. Firms expect to see improvement on a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter. Transportation service firms said cargo and container volumes increased over the reporting period, except for air cargo, which held steady. Railroad contacts reported a slight increase in overall volumes, with notable increases in motor vehicles and crushed stone. Container volumes were up strongly in May, and retail trade continued to lead the growth in small parcel shipments, which increased in May for the third consecutive month. Outlooks were generally less positive than at the time of the last report. Airline contacts noted a seasonal increase in passenger demand over the past six weeks, with demand roughly in line with year-ago levels. Firms expect demand to slow as the leisure travel period ends. One contact expects 2013 to be about the same or slightly better than 2012, while another has an uncertain outlook. Construction and Real EstateActivity in the housing sector continued to grow at a strong pace over the reporting period. Single-family home sales continued to outpace supply, leading to very low inventories and rapid price increases. Building activity picked up but was not yet able to meet demand in the major metro areas. Slightly higher mortgage rates are not expected to derail demand, according to most contacts. Apartment demand remained at high levels. Apartment construction rose in the major metros, where occupancies were above 90 percent. Leasing activity for office and industrial space was strong over the past six weeks, particularly in Houston and Dallas. Construction activity picked up in both Houston and Dallas, with numerous office and industrial projects underway. Contacts noted that the recent increase in interest rates has caused concern in the commercial investment markets, although the impact has been minimal so far Financial ServicesFinancial institutions experienced moderate growth in loan demand. Commercial real estate and transactions lending increased solidly, especially in oil and gas areas around the Eagle Ford Shale and West Texas. Demand for auto loans grew strongly. Loan quality was good and continued to improve, and borrowers were still paying down debt rapidly. Loan pricing remained extremely competitive, and community banks were often outbid by regional banks. Mortgage rates rose in June. Deposits and deposit rates were flat to slightly down. The outlook for loan demand is optimistic, with a robust pipeline for mortgages. EnergyEnergy activity was little changed at high levels. Global demand held steady, although there was some weakness from Mexico and Canada. Respondents expect improvement in energy activity in the second half of the year, due in part to anticipated increases in rig activity and production from the Gulf of Mexico. AgricultureMuch of the Eleventh District remained in severe drought, with conditions little changed from the last reporting period. Row crop farmers completed planting, and crop conditions were mostly fair to good, according to respondents. The wheat harvest continued, but production was sharply reduced as a very large share of the acres planted was abandoned because of drought and freeze damage. Livestock feedlots and meat processors continued to suffer greatly from high feed costs and a shrinking cattle herd. Return to top Prices and WagesPrice inflation was minimal for most final goods and services. Food industry contacts noted price increases for some protein items, including fish, poultry, and beef. Reports from health-care organizations mentioned that the pace of increases in insurance premiums has slowed. Competitive industry pressures constrained fees for legal and accounting services. Driven by demand, prices of some construction inputs, such as logs, edged up further. Contacts reported that upward wage pressures were muted overall. Slack in the labor market held back wage gains in most sectors, occupations, and regions. However, firms in various industries continued to compete vigorously for a limited pool of qualified workers to fill certain technical positions, spurring significant wage growth for occupations such as software developers. Retail Trade and ServicesRetail sales grew modestly. Grocery and apparel retailers noted modest sales growth at retail store locations and relatively strong sales growth online. The retail grocery industry in particular appears to be shifting away from traditional large stores and towards e-commerce. Most contacts' outlook for consumer spending improved slightly since the prior reporting period. Contacts noted that an increase in demand for new devices has spurred some technology firms to expand their medium-term hiring plans. Suppliers of food and beverage products noted improved conditions, although sales of selected discretionary items, such as pet supplies, were a bit soft. As home purchases have increased, so has spending on housing-related products, such as furniture. New and used automobile sales were robust, and some dealers expanded their inventories in anticipation of a further pickup in summer sales. Demand for business and consumer services remained mixed. Robust activity in Hawaii supported the District's travel and tourism sector, although there is some concern that the flow of international visitors could subside in coming months due to weakness in the global economy. After slipping early in the year, travel and tourist activity in Southern California appeared to pick up somewhat toward the end of the second quarter. However, tourist activity in Las Vegas remained soft through the first half of 2013. Demand for elective health-care services stayed relatively weak, while demand for other discretionary services, such as restaurant dining, appeared to strengthen. ManufacturingDistrict manufacturing activity grew overall in the reporting period of late May through early July. Although demand was weak for some electronic components, contacts indicated substantial increases in new orders for semiconductors. Led by launches of innovative products, demand for pharmaceuticals gained further. Wood product manufacturers appeared to ramp up output to levels that exceeded demand in recent weeks. As such, firms are expected to pare back production plans for the second half of the year. Demand for steel products used primarily in nonresidential construction continued to increase. Steel producers reported that capacity utilization ticked up a bit further, and reports of intensified energy usage across multiple goods-producing sectors in the Pacific Northwest implied improved capacity utilization in the region.† Agriculture and Resource-related IndustriesAgricultural sales and production activity expanded. Demand was strong for most crop and livestock products. However, some contacts expressed concern about the lack of availability of manual laborers. Insufficient water also was a concern in parts of the District, with this year's rain and snow pack levels running well below seasonal norms. Contacts from the oil and gas industry faced challenges finding qualified geologists, geophysicists, and drillers to fill open positions. Inventories of natural gas rose further, and demand for gasoline edged up. Reports from the utilities industry indicated that business demand for electricity from wood products and aerospace firms has risen robustly, although overall demand growth was more modest.† Real Estate and ConstructionDemand for housing strengthened substantially, and commercial real estate activity continued to trend up in most areas. Both sales transactions and house prices climbed further in many District cities. The pace of housing starts exceeded the expectations of some contacts. In some areas, the supply of homes for sale remained low, and some properties have received multiple offers from prospective buyers. Construction of multifamily residential projects increased on balance. Commercial real estate activity expanded rapidly in some major metropolitan areas, even though construction of publicly funded commercial projects has slowed in some regions due to funding constraints from state and local governments. Financial InstitutionsReports from financial institutions indicated that loan demand continued to increase. Contacts noted an uptick in applicants seeking residential construction loans and commercial office building mortgages. In line with reports of an improved outlook for business investment, banking contacts indicated that some firms have recently expanded their borrowing in order to invest in long-deferred expansion and capital improvement plans. Although banking contacts highlighted generally stiff competition for well-qualified business borrowers, they also noted more lending opportunities. However, hiring plans were mixed, with some financial institutions expecting to expand their payrolls significantly and others mentioning possible layoffs. In the District's Internet and digital media sectors, mergers and acquisitions activity stepped up in recent months. However, the pace of initial public offerings remained slow, and both venture capital and private equity activity were relatively weak.
REUTERS/Chip EastClosely-followed hedge fund manager John Paulson made a rare appearance to give the keynote lunchtime address at the CNBC/Institutional Investor conference.† This is Paulson's first TV appearance. †He rarely does interviews. Back in 2007, Paulson famously bet against the subprime housing crisis and became a household name. It was called the greatest trade ever. His performance in the last two years though has been criticized, particularly the gold funds.† "We think we're back into our long term achievement returns right now," Paulson said. Paulson said when the Fed got into quantitative easing (QE) he became concerned. †Now we have QE2 and QE3. †He explained that he was looking for a currency alternative to protect against inflation. "Although the Fed has printed a lot of money to date there is very little inflation," he said, noting that has caused the price of the yellow metal to fall in the current environment. He referred to this as a "pause period."† The fund manager added that the rationale for owning gold has not gone away. "We're at risk for having very high rates of inflation because of the amount of money that has been printed."† CNBC anchor Carl Quintanilla then asked him about the housing market. Again, Paulson made a killing betting against subprime in 2007. "We thought we were at a peak in 2006," he said, "Now we believe the housing market has bottomed so we wanted to go long real estate opportunities." † He said it's "not too late to get involved." He said that†buying a home is the "best investment" an individual can make right now. He believes the housing recovery has another 4 to 7 years to go. Paulson†has been getting involved in this in a number of ways, particularly setting up a special real estate fund. Carl Quintanilla then asked him how an individual can play this trade? Paulson said buy a home and if you can buy a second home. Quintanilla asked him why he didn't just retire after making all that money. †Paulson said he wants to do this for another 20 years. He's 57 right now. †
1. Shale-gas and -oil production.¬†Powered by advances in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, the production of domestic shale gas and oil has grown more than 50 percent annually since 2007. The shale boom could add as much as $690 billion a year to GDP and create up to 1.7 million jobs across the economy by 2020. The impact will extend to energy-intensive manufacturing industries and beyond. The United States now has the potential to reduce net energy imports to zero‚Äîbut only if it can successfully address the associated environmental risks. AEI 2. US trade competitiveness in knowledge-intensive goods. The United States is one of the few advanced economies running a trade deficit in knowledge-intensive industries. But changing factor costs, a rebound in demand, and currency shifts are creating an opening to increase US production and exports of knowledge-intensive goods, such as automobiles, commercial airliners, medical devices, and petrochemicals. By implementing five strategies to boost competitiveness in these sectors, we believe the United States could reduce the trade deficit in knowledge-intensive industries to its 2000 level or close it‚Äîwhich would add up to $590 billion in annual GDP by 2020 and create up to 1.8 million new jobs. AEI 3. Big-data analytics as a productivity tool.¬†Sectors across the economy can harness the deluge of data generated by transactions, medical and legal records, videos, and social technologies‚Äînot to mention the sensors, cameras, bar codes, and transmitters embedded in the world around us. Advances in computing and analytics can transform this sea of data into insights that create operational efficiencies. By 2020, the wider adoption of big-data analytics could increase annual GDP in retailing and manufacturing by up to $325 billion and save as much as $285 billion in the cost of health care and government services. AEI 4. Increased investment in infrastructure, with a new emphasis on productivity. The backlog of maintenance and upgrades for US roads, highways, bridges, and transit and water systems is reaching critical levels. The United States must increase its annual infrastructure investment by one percentage point of GDP to erase this competitive disadvantage. By 2020, that could create up to 1.8 million jobs and boost annual GDP by up to $320 billion. The impact could grow to $600 billion annually by 2030 if the selection, delivery, and operation of infrastructure investments improve. AEI 5. A more effective US system of talent development.¬†The nation‚Äôs long-standing advantage in education and skills has been eroding, but today real improvements are within reach. At the postsecondary level, expanding industry-specific training and increasing the number of graduates in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math could build a more competitive workforce. At the K‚Äì12 level, enhancing classroom instruction, turning around underperforming high schools, and introducing digital learning tools can boost student achievement. These initiatives could raise GDP by as much as $265 billion by 2020‚Äîand achieve a dramatic ‚Äúliftoff‚Äù effect by 2030, adding as much as $1.7 trillion to annual GDP. These opportunities can have immediate demand-stimulus effects that would get the economy moving again in the short term and also have longer-term effects that would build US competitiveness and productivity well beyond 2020. Taking action now could mark a turning point for the US economy and drive growth and prosperity for decades to come. AEI The McKinsey report is a lengthy one that fleshes out each of these options and how to implement them. And I will give each further analysis. But bigger picture, the report suggests a slow-growth, New Normal economy isn‚Äôt preordained. Nor do we have to sit around simply hoping for some next-wave innovation to bail us out. The private-sector will do the heavy lifting, but government has a role to play, too. From the report: ‚ÄúGoverning by temporary measures or taking years to approve projects also creates policy uncertainty that discourages businesses from investing and slows economic momentum.‚Äù
REUTERS/Brian SnyderHaving an MBA can give you an edge in the cutthroat world of businessóbut only if you pick the right school.  The wrong school could be a critical waste of time and money. For our fourth annual survey of the World's Best Business Schools, we asked hundreds of American professionals with experience hiring MBAs†to determine the best business school in the world. They came back with a loud and clear answer: Harvard University. Harvard pushed last year's winner, Stanford, down to number 3. In addition to the usual top American schools, international institutions like Cambridge University (#8), Oxford University (#9), and the London School of Economics (#19) also placed in the top 20. The majority of respondents said that skills and knowledge is the most important takeaway from business school (69%), while 22% said that a network of contacts was a valuable B-school bonus. Note that we only asked American hiring professionals to weigh in, so these 42 business schools are best for getting you a job in the U.S.
Our fourth annual survey of the World's Best Business Schools is out.  And while our list may look a bit different than last year's list, that's because we went about conducting our survey a bit differently.  This year, we enlisted the help of SurveyMonkey, a data-collecting surveying tool, to target a specific audience: managers, HR recruiters, and business owners in all fields who have experience hiring candidates with MBAs. We only targeted American professionals, who are based all over the U.S. Responses came from more than 300 professionals, who work in a variety of industries, including health care (17%), government (8%), technology (7%), finance (5%), and more. Here's the breakdown of industries: SurveyMonkey We then asked these professionals to select what they believe are the top 10 most prestigious business schools in the world. This generated a percentage of responses for each school, which enabled us to rank the schools. Over 77% of respondents selected Harvard University as a top tier business school, pushing the school to number one on our list. Yale came in at #2 with over 60% of respondents choosing the school, and Stanford (last year's winner) came in at #3 with over 58% of responses. We also asked respondents to determine the value of an MBA.† A majority (61%) of respondents said that an MBA is "slightly important" or "moderately important." Only 3% of respondents said that an MBA is "extremely important." Here's what they said: SurveyMonkey And while many people often tout the biggest benefit of business school as the large network of contacts, our respondents overwhelmingly said that "skills and knowledge" is the most valuable asset an MBA provides: SurveyMonkey Now read the full list of the World's Best Business Schools.

The July 2013 Consumer Price Index for Urban Consumers (CPI-U) released today puts the June year-over-year inflation rate at 1.75%, dramatically below the 3.91% average since the end of the Second World War and 0.68% lower than its 10-year moving average. For a comparison of headline inflation with core inflation, which is based on the CPI excluding food and energy, see this monthly feature. For better understanding of how CPI is measured and how it impacts your household, see my Inside Look at CPI components. For an even closer look at how the components are behaving, see this X-Ray View of the data for the past five months. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) has compiled CPI data since 1913, and numbers are conveniently available from the FRED repository (here). My long-term inflation charts reach back to 1872 by adding Warren and Pearson's price index for the earlier years. The spliced series is available at Yale Professor Robert Shiller's website. This look further back into the past dramatically illustrates the extreme oscillation between inflation and deflation during the first 70 years of our timeline. Click here for additional perspectives on inflation and the shrinking value of the dollar. ¬† ¬† Alternate Inflation Data The chart below (click here for a larger version) includes an alternate look at inflation *without* the calculation modifications the 1980s and 1990s (Data from www.shadowstats.com). ¬† ¬† On a personal note, the more I study inflation the more convinced I am that the current BLS method of calculating inflation is reasonably sound. As a first-wave Boomer who raised a family during the double-digit inflation years of the 1970s and early 1980s, I see nothing today that is remotely like the inflation we endured at that time. Moreover, government policy, the Federal Funds Rate, interest rates in general and decades of major business decisions have been fundamentally driven by the official BLS inflation data, not the alternate CPI. For this reason I view the alternate inflation data as an interesting but ultimately useless statistical series. That said, I think that economist John Williams, the founder of Shadow Government Statistics, to which I subscribe, offers provocative analysis on a range of government statistics. While I do not share his hyperinflationary expectations, at least not based on current economic conditions, I find his skeptical view of government data to be filled with thoughtful insights. For independent evidence that the Consumer Price Index is a reasonably accurate representation of the prices we pay, see the MIT Billion Prices Project US Daily Index. For a long-term look at the impact of inflation on the purchasing power of the dollar, check out this log-scale snapshot of fourteen-plus decades. ¬†
Nothing burns calories like a nice monetary incentive.¬† At least that's the theory being tested in Dubai, where the city is offering residents 2 grams of solid gold if they lose at least 2 kg (4.4 lbs) within 30 days, Emirates 24/7 reports. It's all part of a contest called "Your Weight In Gold," which has been billed by the city government as a way to promote healthy living and raise awareness about sporting activities. The deal gets sweeter with every pound people drop. Once they hit the 2 kg weight loss mark, participants are guaranteed to earn 1 extra gram of gold for each additional kilo they drop. At today's rate, a gram (.03 oz) of gold is worth about $45, which means you'd earn $90 for dropping the initial 2 kg of weight, plus another $45 for every kg thereafter.¬† There's no limit to how much gold you can earn, but doctors recommend losing about 4 to 8 pounds per month (1-2 lbs/week) to stay healthy. At that rate, you could pocket $180 - $360.¬† It's not exactly enough to buy a new treadmill, but you could probably get all the skinny jeans you could want.¬† Participants can sign up at local parks and will weigh in at public scales manned by trained dietitians.¬† Obesity is cause for major concern in the United Arab Emirates, where it's on track to surpass smoking as the leading cause of preventable death. More than two-thirds of men and nearly three-fourths of women are considered overweight. "When people come here they become obese," Dr Fuad Ahmed, a consultant specializing in obesity surgery, told The National.¬†"The curse of this civilization is that we have stopped using our bodies and we eat too much." The contest begins July 19 and runs through Aug. 16.
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderWe're going to add two senior editors to our team. These are important positions for us, and we would be grateful for your help in finding great people. Specifically, we're hiring a Senior Editor, Policy to oversee our politics, defense, government, foreign policy, and law coverage and a Senior Editor, News to oversee our real-time news coverage. ¬† We already have excellent teams covering these areas. ¬†The mission of the Senior Editors will be to continue to expand and improve this coverage and help make Business Insider even better for our readers. Please pass on any suggestions and referrals. If there's a news organization or site that you particularly like to read, there's probably an excellent editor or editors behind it. (If you don't know who the editors are, just tell us what sites you like, and we'll do the rest.) For the sake of simplicity, please send suggestions to our Managing Editor, Jessica Liebman, at jliebman@businessinsider.com.¬† Thanks in advance for your help.
Caterpillar shares are cratering after Jim Chanos said he was shorting the stock. Chart: It's now off about -2.40%. Leigh Drogen Tweeted CAT was a huge biggest beneficiary of the housing boom in China "which is now going bust."
David Ogilvy & Associates RealtorsA humongous house known as Copper Beach Farm in Greenwich, Connecticut went on sale in May for $190 million, making it the most expensive home on the U.S. market. After seeing images of the property, there's no doubt it's incredible. But the $190 million price tag is still surprising†ó that's nearly $60 million more than the current record price for a private home. Now†The New York Times' Elizabeth A. Harris reports†that the waterfront estate's high price tag isn't because of its acreage and 15,000-square-foot living space, but because the home carries with it more than $120 million in debt. According to Harris, the current owners ó timber magnate John M. Rudey and his wife Laurie Rudey ó have taken out a series of mortgages on the property through companies they own: By the end of 2010, companies owned by the Rudey family had a $59 million mortgage on one portion of Copper Beech Farm and a $79 million mortgage on the forestland in Washington, both with Bank of America. Those loans were cross-collateralized and personally guaranteed by Mr. and Mrs. Rudey, meaning that if they fell behind in payments, the bank could force the sale of either property and, if they still came up short, the Rudeys would be personally liable. They also had $65 million worth of mortgages, again through a corporation, on another section of Copper Beech with M&amp;T Bank, effectively bringing the total debt associated with the property to as much as $203 million. In 2011, Bank of America started foreclosure proceedings on its portion of Copper Beech Farm. The Rudeys, meanwhile, had filed a suit against the bank, alleging ìpredatory lending practices,î among other accusations. The following summer, those two lawsuits were dropped. The Rudeys have since struck a deal for the 50,000 acres of Washington forestland with Washington State Department of Natural Resource for $97 million, according to the Times, and have sold their Fifth Avenue apartment for $16.5 million. Now, it's Copper Beech Farm's turn on the market. Time will tell if the Rudeys get their price. But to put the astronomical $190 million asking price in perspective, the most expensive property ever sold in Greenwich was a $45 million estate that changed hands in 2004, and the most expensive home ever†sold in the U.S. is believed to be a $132.5 million Montana Ranch that reportedly sold†to real estate mogul Stanley Kroenke in November 2012. Meanwhile, Mr. Rudeyís real estate broker David Ogilvy told the Times that this is just the way real estate planning works for wealthy families.
CNBCCorporate bond buyers in Japan today are a lot like investors in subprime mortgage-backed securities during the housing bubble, hedge fund manager Richard Perry said at the¬†Delivering Alpha¬†conference. Perry Capital is shorting Japanese corporate bonds, looking to profit on a decline in the price of the bonds. "People don't do the credit work," Perry said. "People rely on credit agencies." Perry said that one indicator that the market was not paying enough attention to risk in the Japanese bonds was the fact that bond prices had held steady while the equities had declined sharply. Perry said that Japan's policies had badly damaged the competitiveness of its companies. Because of misguided policies, Japan's advantages in engineering are now being eclipsed by competitors from around the world, including German and U.S. companies.¬† ‚ÄîBy CNBC's John Carney. Follow him on Twitter¬†@carney
The bears are up. Jim Chanos is just about to give his best investing idea at the CNBC/Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha Conference. He calls his segment "the destroying Alpha" portion. And the famed short-seller's next victim is... Catterpillar Inc. WHY? The global commodities super cycle is over, China is slowing down, and Catterpillar is "in the wrong business at the wrong time." The stock is already feeling the burn, it's down $2.† Of course there are accounting issues ó negative free cash flow after dividends. Also, he said the company was overly aggresive writing down a recent merger. If you take away one phrase form this quick break down, let it be this ó Caterpillar is facing "commodities super cycle headwinds." Another note: The CEO's notes have been "off", says Chanos. His predictions are a bit too high.† You've been warned. And FYI: Chanos' still short his pick from last year, Hewlett Packard adding that the services business for servers is also declining. Also, Chanos is being mysterious about his short on a European auto company (or companies). He's hedging with Volkswagon. That's all we know.
As the U.S. economy improves, people are going back to work, investing in their homes, and preparing to make new purchases.¬† They're also going to spend a lot more time in prison.¬† Private prison company Corrections Corporation of America released a slide deck in June that we recently came across. CCA is thrilled at the economic recovery. Recessions mean less tax collections. Less tax collections mean cut budgets, which mean fewer arrests and early releases. The end of the recession means a return to normalcy.¬† Now that the nation is back on its feet, the world's biggest jailer is about to get back to work. Before the recession, state inmate populations grew around 23,000 per month. The recession lead to small increases. CCA forecasts make it seem like Americans are about to spend a lot more time in the clink than they have over the past five years.¬† CCA
REUTERS/Andrew BurtonWe‚Äôre in the heart of intern season, which means thousands of bright-eyed college and graduate students are putting in the hours, setting themselves up for long distinctive careers on Wall Street. Others, meanwhile, are shooting themselves in foot, killing their chances of finding work down the road, at least at the bank in which they‚Äôre interning. In an effort to help keep the latter group as small as possible, we reached out to four vice presidents on Wall Street ‚Äì two investment bankers at bulge bracket firms, a hedge fund exec and a consultant ‚Äì to capture the dos and don‚Äôts of being an intern. Each source not only currently manages interns, but has been one in the past at the MBA level. Two are female and two are male. They asked to remain anonymous to give you the real dirt. And off we go‚Ä¶ Male VP ‚Äì Investment Banking Female Hedge Fund Exec: Female VP ‚Äì Investment Banking:
Some of the biggest, bravest investors in the world are gathered here at the CNBC/Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha Conference, and as they do year after year, they're sharing their views on monetary policy and its impact on the bond market. We've watched these investors go from loving Bernanke, to hating Bernanke; from saying that we should be buying bonds to saying it's time sell bonds. This year, it's something completely different. All these investors do is stay out of Bernanke's way. "You can protect against certain scenarios better than you can predict them," said†Michael Hintze, Founder &amp; Chief Executive Officer, CQS. Also joining Hintz were††Gregory J. Fleming, President, Morgan Stanley Investment Management; Joshua S. Friedman, Co-founder, Co-chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, Canyon Partners; and†Andrew J.M. Spokes, Managing Partner, Farallon Capital Management. Through the talk, the four money managers sitting on stage were basically throwing up their hands and saying ó "lets just go with it." Yes, they still think this an unprecedented time of central bank action. Yes, something unforseen is going to hapen eventually ó but there were few predictions on stage, and even fewer hands ringing. Resistance, as they say, is futile. Here's a perfect illustration: CNBC's Becky Quick opened up the conversation asking if The Great Rotation (what everyone is calling the move from bonds into stocks) is upon is. The short answer: Who knows?! Gregory J. Fleming, President, Morgan Stanley Investment Management said simply, "very few economists would have told you on May 1st that the 10 year could be at 2% in the next month. ... It's very hard to call." It was hard to call, and it was also hard to invest in. Fleming and his fellow panelists didn't sound ready to see that happen again full tilt. His advisers over at Morgan Stanley are figuring out how to alter their asset allocation, but mostly they're still moving more into the stock market ó in 2008 they had less than 40% of their cash allocated there, now they have about 50%.† As for the credit markets, "the only observation I would make is that in credit markets ... you're a lot closer to record low levels than you are to record high levels," said another panelist. Not necessarily a big call. Now, while this talk was going on, Quick called on Leon Cooperman to approach the stage and give his case for why he'd never invest in bonds.† Genius that he is, Cooperman threw down a stunning six-point argument that all came down to this: Why buy bonds when the Fed is buying bonds? I'll take my chances with equities, thanks. Bernanke, do your worst. These guys are just going to watch.
Business Insider Business Insider's iPhone app has been completely rewritten from the ground up. It's sleek, fast, easy to read, and has a handy auto-update feature that works as hard as you do. The new offline support delivers a news fix even on the subway or plane. Some highlights of the new edition: Besides the fact that it's rock solid and doesn't crash, we love the new background update feature. Leave the app open in the background and every 30 minutes it will fetch new content. You can adjust the update period to a more frequent setting or turn it off if data usage is a concern. Download it from the app store today. 
YouTube screengrabBillionaire hedge fund manager Leon Cooperman gave ten of his favorite stock picks at the CNBC/Delivering Alpha hedge fund conference.† Last year all ten of his stock picks were winners. He has a few repeats in this †year's bunch.† For his market outlook, Cooperman sees a correction in the equity markets in the next 12 months. He's also bearish on bonds.† Cooperman gave his picks on one slide.† Here's what we've got: Quality Growth Phoenix In The Ashes Other picks include Arbor Realty Trust (ABR), Atlas Resource Partners, Chimera Investment Corp, THL Credit (TCRD)†and KKR Financial Holdings. Cooperman says that he's "struggling" this year. †CNBC anchor David Faber told him not to be so hard on himself, though.
REUTERS/Brian SnyderìThis time is different.î The mere mention of the phrase is enough to send cold shivers running down the spine of investors whoíve lived through more than one economic cycle. The last time it was rolled out was during the Internet bubble, when it was used to rationalize the ever-higher valuations of the stocks of dot-com companies that hadnít earnedóand never would earnóa single cent in profit. With interest rates creeping higher once more after several years of lingering near multi-decade lows, the traditional rules of investing suggest that this is the moment to join the crowd and start unloading shares of hardline retailers such as Bed Bath &amp; Beyond and Home Depot, or of those businesses whose revenues are tied to the automotive industry. Itís an old and proven relationship: When interest rates rise, ìconsumer cyclicalsî suffer, as higher borrowing costs erode both consumersí spending power and their desire to borrow money for a new car or house. But sometimes, it really is different, and this is one of those occasions. This isnít the normal kind of environment in which the Federal Reserve begins to raise interest rates to cool down an overheated economy. Because of that, argue a group of Credit Suisse analysts, the traditional response simply isnít appropriate. This is ìnot your grandmotherís economic cycle,î the analysts argued in a June report of the same name. In this particular cycle, they said, rising rates do not point to an economy on the verge of cooling down. Because of that, they suggested, it is no time to sell hardline retail and automotive stocks. Itís undeniable that rates on everything from 30-year mortgages to 10-year Treasury notes are rising. As Federal Reserve policymakers have begun to talk openly about tapering off their bond buying program and ending the prolonged period of ultra-low rates, a kind of panic attack has swept through both stock and bond markets. In a ìnormalî cycle, high or rising interest rates would be a sign that monetary policymakers believed a period of expansion was getting long in the tooth and that they needed to be less accommodative with credit to stave off inflation. In that circumstance, itís quite sensible to use rising rates as a signal to flee rate-sensitive stocks, a broad group that includes not just hardline retailers and automotive dealerships, but also housing and any other ìconsumer cyclicalî business that relies heavily on consumers being willing and able to spend. This time around, though, the economy isnít even close to overheating: Inflation remains a concern only for those pundits looking far into the future, while economic growth is anemic. Indeed, the economic recovery from the crisis of 2007/2008 still seems to be in its early stages, as is that of the housing market. The national unemployment rate lingers at 7.6 percent, far from the 6.5 percent target the Federal Reserve has said it wants to see before hiking the federal funds rate. And while rates have risen of late, they still remain well below pre-crisis levels. Nor does it seem likely that the Fedís $85 billion monthly purchases of mortgage-backed securities and Treasury bonds, which help keep interest rates low, are likely to end anytime soon. Credit Suisse has predicted that wonít happen until the middle of next year. In their report, Credit Suisse analyst Gary Balter and his colleagues advised investors to overlook historical tradition, and focus more on the still-bullish outlook for an assortment of retailers ranging from Home Depot and Bed Bath &amp; Beyond to ìdo-it-yourselfî automotive companies, such as Advance AutoParts and AutoNation. In overreacting to the Fedís noises of tapering, the market has created bargains for investors who are able to appreciate that there is a difference between a classic interest rate cycle and the one that we are in today, Balter suggested. Not even the recent strengthening in the U.S. dollar puts a dent in this outlook: Many of these cyclical retail stocks are focused on the domestic market, meaning that they should outperform relative to companies which do a great deal of business overseas, where a strong dollar would make American imports less attractive. Clearly, interest rates arenít irrelevant to either the housing market or the automotive market; the cost of credit is one of the most important factors shaping demand. But the market hubbub may be overdone. As recently as May, sales of existing homes recorded their highest monthly reading in six years, excluding the period leading up to the expiry of the homebuyersí tax credit in November 2009. Moreover, the median sales price of a single-family home rose 15.4 percent in May over the same period in 2012, the biggest jump since before the financial crisis and the accompanying collapse of the real estate market. Indeed, rising home prices have put a bigger dent in housing affordability than have interest rates. And even though homes have gotten more expensive this year, the Housing Affordability Index ≠ñ which the National Association of Realtors calculates each month based on the relationship between median family income, the median home price and current mortgage rates ñ remains at multi-year highs. Back in 2010, when the index was last at its current levels, interest rates were more than a full percentage point higher than they are now. Balter and his colleagues suggested that lenders taking a more conservative stance in the wake of the housing crisis could pose a bigger problem for the real estate market than the cost of credit itself. Thereís another point, too: retailers that focus on home improvement may at first glance seem more exposed to the housing industry ñ and thus, rising interest rates ñ than they really are. True, the purchase of a new house can send a proud homeowner scurrying off to Home Depot in search of paint or new kitchen cabinets. In practice, however, existing homeowners are just as likely to splurge on those new cabinets as are recent buyers. In fact, Balter argued, home improvement-related sales and profits are tied more to smaller-ticket purchases, from espresso makers to pricey gas grills, for homes people already own. Thatís why, in his view, consumer confidence is more important than new household formation in generating growth for businesses that cater to homeowners. Meanwhile, many cyclical retailers are enjoying positive trends in their business that outweigh their interest rate exposure, and will continue to do so if the economy continues to expand and consumer confidence keeps growing. For instance, a recent rebound in light vehicle sales, which rose 9 percent in June, will create demand for automotive service that should boost both do-it-yourself auto companies and dealerships. Credit Suisse also noted that people have been driving more, so even those car and truck owners who are not prepared to invest in a new vehicle will need to spend money to keep their existing vehicles roadworthy. Thatís great news for car dealers, which Balter said generate 40 percent of their gross profits from servicing cars, rather than selling them. Their ranks include AutoNation (which Balter has just upgraded, and whose debt analysts at Moodyís Investors Service are reviewing for a possible boost to investment-grade status) and Lithia Motors, an automotive dealership network, which announced a 31 percent jump in first-quarter profits this spring, beating analystsí expectations and raising its earnings outlook for the year. In this kind of environment, the interest rate debate is just a sideshow. In the end, for investors able to look past the turmoil that followed the Great Bernanke Scare and shrug off preconceptions about what kind of stocks they ìshouldî own during a period of rising interest rates, it may well prove an opportune time to consider cyclical retailers. We believe this time is different.
During CNBC/Institutional Investor's Delivering Alpha conference billionaire hedge fund manager Leon Cooperman stood up from the audience on a panel he's not on to make a case for being bearish on U.S. Treasuries.¬† It happened during "The Great Rotation" panel with guests Gregory Fleming, Morgan Stanley Wealth Management; Josh Friedman, Canyon Partners; Michael Hintze, CQS; and Andrew Spokes, Farallon.¬† CNBC host Becky Quick turned from the panel to ask Cooperman, who was sitting in the audience, where we are in the Great Rotation out of bonds. ¬† Cooperman, who was prepared, stood up and said "I'll give you six reasons" on why he thinks government bonds are a bad bet. Everyone in the audience started laughing. We couldn't catch all of his reasons, but he says bonds are more expensive relative to equities. ¬†He also sees bond yields moving higher in 2 to 3 years.¬† He said he'd rather take his chance in equities. ¬†During last year's Delivering Alpha, Cooperman gave ten stock picks. ¬†All of them are higher, some even substantially higher.¬† Absolute Return reporter Lawrence Delevingne Tweeted a picture of Cooperman. Check him out:¬† ¬† Only at #DeliveringAlpha: Lee Cooperman rises from audience to make case for equities over bonds for next 2-3 yrs pic.twitter.com/ktzxKsiI1e
REUTERS/Jeff ZelevanskyNEW YORK CITY ó A comely†Columbia Business School†grad who had a lovechild with the late†billionaire investor Bruce Wasserstein†wants her little girl to have use of his custom-designed East Hampton pad to help the toddler connect to her dead dad. For more than a year, Erin McCarthy has demanded that the trustees of Wasserstein's estate grant her 5-year-old daughter access to the 26-acre beachfront property, claiming that a child psychologist said the stays would be therapeutic. When trustees rebuffed her requests, she went to court, claiming they play favorites by allowing Wasserstein's five other children to use the property, but barring her daughter because she was born out of wedlock. Those five siblings offer a different reason ó they don't want to be around McCarthy, 41, who they say destroyed their dad's longtime marriage and once broke into the†East Hampton†property, "terrorizing" little children, court records show. While the five siblings acknowledge McCarthy's daughter as an equal beneficiary of his fortune, they say the girl barely spent time in the East Hampton home before Wasserstein's untimely death and that she doesn't hold the same cherished memories of the grounds as them. "No one would want to be forced to share a home with strangers, particularly ones who caused the dissolution of their family," a lawyer for three of the siblings wrote in a response to McCarthy's legal action. When Wasserstein, the head of investment firm Lazard and the owner of†New Yorkmagazine, died suddenly at 61 in 2009, he left behind an estimated $2.2 billion fortune, a widow, three ex-wives and six children. Five of his children ó ranging from teenagers to 30-somethings ó come from two marriages. The mother of his two youngest sons is Claude Wasserstein, the investor's third wife. Wasserstein's marriage to Claude fell apart in 2007 when he began an affair with McCarthy, according to court papers. While they were together, McCarthy said he wanted her to get pregnant and helped her conceive through in-vitro fertilization. But the relationship was short-lived, ending before McCarthy gave birth to their daughter in June 2008. The affair crushed Wasserstein's other children, who at the time were mourning the death of their beloved aunt,†Pulitzer prize-winning playwright Wendy Wasserstein, and a grandmother. "Rather than being available to focus on helping his family to heal and adjust, it was clear that my father was distracted by his affair with [McCarthy], and then by her objections to his termination of that affair," his daughter Scoop Wasserstein said in an affidavit connected to the legal action. "It felt like our father was taken away from us when we needed him most." McCarthy again stressed out the family during a blowup in August 2008, when Wasserstein was vacationing at the East Hampton property with his two youngest sons. Though he no longer dated McCarthy, he paid for her and their infant daughter to stay in a nearby home so they could visit. While out one day with his new girlfriend, his future fourth wife Angela Chao, Wasserstein bumped into McCarthy and their daughter on a street but didn't introduce them, according to multiple affidavits. A sobbing McCarthy and her daughter later walked into Wasserstein's home while he was out, according to an affidavit by his sons' nanny. An estate manager eventually got McCarthy to leave and drove her home. But at the rental house, McCarthy nearly ran over the employee, the affidavit says. About 3:30 a.m. the next day, McCarthy barged into the East Hampton home with her crying infant daughter. After discovering Chao in Wasserstein's bedroom, McCarthy began screaming, "You're dad's a bastard," within earshot of his sons, according to multiple affidavits.† Claude Wasserstein said the meltdown left her two boys traumatized. "I have also been concerned for their safety since the incident, since Erin seems to have no qualms about terrorizing young children," she wrote in an affidavit. In a court filing responding to the allegations, McCarthy said she didn't break into the home, noting she had a key to the front gate and knew the doors would be open. She said her outburst came about because she was suffering from postpartum depression. She also heard Chao's voice in the bedroom and didn't know Wasserstein had began a new relationship, she said. After Wasserstein's death, his sprawling East Hampton property and other assets were placed in trusts administered by longtime friends and business associates on behalf of his six children. McCarthy's daughter eventually stands to inherit $75 million from a trust, according to court records. She also currently receives nearly $200,000 each summer to rent a Hamptons estate, lives in a multimillion Manhattan apartment paid for by Wasserstein and gets tens of thousands of dollars in support a month, court papers say. But Wasserstein's East Hampton home, known as Cranberry Dune, appears to be the most coveted possession among all the siblings. The property,†sitting on tony Further Lane next to Jerry Seinfeld's home, has been in the family for 20 years and has hosted older siblings' weddings and bar mitzvahs. McCarthy said that while they were a couple, Wasserstein told her how he personally designed his estates and filled them with historic treasures in order to build a lasting legacy, like†William Randolph Hearst did at his mansion in San Simeon, Calif. "They are also homes of his creation, reflecting his tastes and personality that cannot be experienced by [my daughter] by other means," she wrote in her petition. Those concrete connections to Wasserstein are the reasons why she sued the trustees in†Manhattan Surrogate's Court†in April 2012, accusing them of bias and demanding immediate access to the home. After her filing, the five siblings offered the girl the choice of the Wasserstein's Santa Barbara ranch or Paris apartment if she would give up rights to Cranberry Dune. But the proposal failed. David Stoll, a lawyer for Wasserstein's three oldest children, declined to comment for the story. In March 2013, a judge dismissed McCarthy's filing. However, a proceeding on how to split Wasserstein's assets is ongoing. The trustees maintain that the most equitable solution is to pay McCarthy's daughter a one-fifth share of the market value of the East Hampton home. The other siblings would then continue to own equal shares of the properties. Eric Penzer, a lawyer appointed by the court to represent the interests of McCarthy's daughter, agrees with the trustees' solution and has filed court papers in support. "[The child's] interests are my first, last and only concern," Penzer told DNAinfo.com New York. "I am here to make sure she gets everything that's she's entitled to." Penzer also had a child psychiatrist examine McCarthy's daughter to determine the emotional impact of not visiting Cranberry Dune. The psychiatrist's report said that the little girl has no meaningful memories of her dad and that her Hamptons visits would create arguments and hurt her development. The report also said that photographs were the best way for children to have a relationship with a dead parent, but noted the paucity of pictures at McCarthy's home. "It is surprising that Erin proposes that [her daughter] needs a connection with Bruce's possessions, yet she has only two photographs of [her daughter] with her father in their apartment," he wrote in his report. McCarthy's lawyers did not respond to a request for comment.
REUTERS/Fatih SaribasThe Wall Street Journal's Emre Peker writes Turkish PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan¬†believes credit cards are undermining society (via Katie Martin). Erdogan has lately been blaming an¬†‚Äúinterest-rate lobby‚Äù for sparking unrest and manipulating markets, Peker says. Tuesday, during an address in Ankara to break the Ramadan fast, he narrowed his attack to greedy citizens: May God give them salvation, they love getting their hands on a credit card, as if that will let them show off,‚Äù Mr. Erdogan said. ‚ÄúThen the salary is spent before month‚Äôs end, there is interest payments, etc. This is a big game being played [on Turkey], we need to get together and disrupt it. If everyone can learn cut one‚Äôs coat according to one‚Äôs cloth, they [the interest rate lobby and credit card issuers] won‚Äôt see this money. Consumer lending is soaring in Turkey, Peker notes: credit expanded 25% in June, nearly double last year's pace. The government continues to crack down on civil disobedience ‚Äî authorities arrested about 30 yesterday and briefly detained more than 1,000, the Jerusalem Post reports. Read the full story at WSJ.com ¬ª
After spiking to nearly $1,300 in the wake of Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke's prepared remarks, gold is now tumbling. Economists immediate reaction to the the remarks was that Bernanke's message was dovish. Minutes ago, Bernanke gave his semiannual testimony to the House Financial Services Committee. The current gold sell-off started just before the Q&amp;A began. ¬† FinViz
Flickr/ Avi and Elina FlaxThis post originally appeared at Real Men Real Style. Black shoes and a black suit work great if youíre going to a funeral, but most of the time weíre a little more colorful in our wardrobes. How does a man wearing a navy, light-grey, or brown suit match his shoes with the suit color?† Take a moment to get to know the chart below. It pairs the five most common suit colors ó navy, medium or mid-gray, charcoal, brown, and black ó with three different shoes to show you which colors work with which leathers. Now, are these shoe matching rules absolute?†Not entirely ó but itís a very safe guide to follow. If youíre bucking the advice here, it should be because youíre going for a really unique look or you know the rules and make a conscious decision to ignore them! For example, we donít have the burgundy shoes paired with a black suit. But a rocker might wear a black suit with red Converse All-Stars, and that would be, if not exactly timeless menís style, certainly a style choice that could work. Reprinted from Real Men Real Style There are going to be exceptions. But there arenít many of them, and if youíre sticking to classic business and business-casual dress, let this chart be your guide. Most of the time itís not too hard.†Strict business formality is easy ó a charcoal gray or navy blue suit and plain black shoes. But as the suits (and the business climate) become more relaxed, you get the option of wearing different colors of leather with them. Thatís a stumbling block for a lot of men ó and the wrong color of shoes and belt can ruin even a fine suit. Hereís how most of these combinations play out in practical, day-to-day dress: 1. Navy Blue Suits Pair with: Navy can go comfortably with all three of the main color families of menís leather shoes. You can probably even make a navy suit work with more exotic colors if you have them, although blue is generally too close to make a good contrast. The leather color mostly affects the formality and attitude of a navy suit. Black shoes are business dress, while brown are more relaxed, and red or burgundy give it the most playful, social feel. 2. Medium and Light Grey Suits Pair with: Medium gray suits are less formal than navy suits, and share a similar flexibility. You can pair them effectively with just about any color of leather. In the case of medium gray, black is the best option when youíre wearing a white shirt and a necktie. Itís still not proper business dress (the suit itself is too light), but itís quite typical in offices where suits are mandatory but somewhat relaxed. Brown and burgundy shoes make it more of a casual/social look, and work best when the shirt has a bit of pattern or color to it as well. 3. Brown Suits Pair with: Do not pair with: Take a caveat here ó brown suits work with†most†brown shoes. You want a visible contrast between the color of the shoe leather and the color of the suit. If theyíre identical or almost-identical, it looks off. Apart from that, brownís great with most casual leather shoes. Itís generally better to have the shoe leather darker than the suit (helps keep the eye from being drawn downward), but either way can work so long as you have a clear contrast. 4. Charcoal Grey Suits Pair with: Do not pair with: Hereís where we get to our first firm ìnoî on the list: donít pair charcoal suits with brown shoes. Dark browns look like youíre trying for a close match and coming up short. Light browns are too informal, and draw the eye jarringly downward. Plain black works best, or a deep burgundy for a look thatís relaxed but still elegant. 5. Black Suits Pair with: Do not pair with: Blackís not very flexible. Thatís why we generally recommend charcoal gray or navy blue in its place as a first suit. If you own one, pair it with black shoes, and save the outfit for funerals and strict business dress occasions. Any other color of shoe is going to look too casual with black. 6. Other Colors The chart at the top is built around the most common colors of suit and leather dress shoes. Youíll probably end up with more colors of suit/trouser than just those five, and more colors of shoe than those three. That especially gets true once you start wearing leather shoes with casual trousers (like jeans), or dress suits with casual shoes (like canvas sneakers). Experiment and find out what works for you. The more casual the outfit, the less strict the rules, so if youíre doing something deliberately convention-defying (like the rocker example we used at the start), donít sweat it too much. If it looks good in the mirror, go with it, and donít worry whether itís ìrightî or not. As with all colors, the most important thing to remember is to avoid things that are close but not quite matching. Those are the worst-looking clashes ó it looks like you tried for a unified outfit and screwed it up a little. Keep the contrast clear and you should be fine.
REUTERS/Alfred Cheng JinU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke listens to welcome remarks before he delivers a speech at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing December 15, 2006.Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke just delivered†prepared remarks in his semi-annual Humphrey Hawkins testimony on Fed policy before Congress. Now, Bernanke is taking questions from the House Financial Services Committee. The full text of Bernanke's remarks was released at 8:30 AM in order to give Committee members time to come up with questions that weren't already addressed in the statement. Perhaps the most important takeaway from the remarks: the path of quantitative easing is not on a preset course, especially given the recent surge in bond yields. "I emphasize that, because our asset purchases depend on†economic and financial developments, they are by no means on a†preset course," said Bernanke in the statement. "On the one hand, if economic conditions were to†improve faster than expected, and inflation appeared to be†rising decisively back toward our objective, the pace of asset†purchases could be reduced somewhat more quickly. On the other†hand, if the outlook for employment were to become relatively†less favorable, if inflation did not appear to be moving back†toward 2 percent, or if financial conditions -- which have tightened recently -- were judged to be insufficiently†accommodative to allow us to attain our mandated objectives, the†current pace of purchases could be maintained for longer." The Q&amp;A, on the other hand, has mostly focused on issues related to fiscal policy and financial regulation so far, with very little discussion of monetary policy to this point. When asked about the timing of tapering back of bond purchases, Bernanke reiterated the Fed's stance that it is dependent on incoming economic data: if better than expected, the Fed could look to begin tapering. If the data deteriorate, the Fed could increase the rate of bond purchases it makes under quantitative easing. We will be bringing you relevant updates from Bernanke's testimony and Q&amp;A LIVE. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
Reuters/Chris KeaneEalier today we saw housing starts crumble, falling 9.9% month-over-month (MoM) in June to an annualized 836,000. This widely missed expectations for a 5.5% rise. However, the number may just be a blip in the long-term upward trend. Paul Diggle at Capital Economics points out that starts are still in "rollercoaster mode" and this month's decline was largely led by the 26.2% MoM slump in volatile multi-family starts. "Multi-family starts are typically more volatile for a number of reasons but the main one is quite simple: there are multiple multi-family units in one building, so when a building is started, lots of multi-family units are started," he said in an email to Business Insider. "The 26% m/m decline in multi-family starts isnít particularly unusual ñ the mean absolute percent m/m change in multi-family starts since 2000 has been 17%; the max was 81%! (Jan 2011)." He also pointed out that single-family starts, which account for 70% of all construction activity was almost flat, declining 0.8% on the month. "Starts are going through a particularly up-and-down period, with the monthly change (whether upwards or downwards) at least 7% m/m in six out of the past seven months," wrote Diggle. "So the bigger picture is that homebuilding is still very much in recovery mode," he wrote, also pointing to the surge in July's homebuilder confidence number, which is now at a 7.5-year high. While some look to this as a good leading indicator for starts, Diggle writes that homebuilder sentiment points to a doubling in housing starts by next year which is too optimistic. "After all the number of building permits, generally a good short-term leading indicator of starts (although they failed to predict Juneís slump), also declined last month to 911,000 annualized. And we are still hearing plenty of anecdotal evidence about the constraints on homebuilders from skills shortages, lack of easily developed land, construction costs and access to credit." But he also thinks many of the constraints are starting to whittle away. Lumber prices have fallen 25% in the last two months, construction employment is improving, and builders seem to be taking rising interest rates into their stride.
Dr. Ed's Blog
DNAinfo/Noelani MonteroNEW YORK ‚Äî¬†7-Eleven¬†has gone high-tech. The chain's expansive new Financial District outpost, which sits¬†at the corner of John and Pearl streets, boasts touch-screen ordering, free Wi-Fi, a huge flat-screen TV and even an¬†Amazon Locker¬†‚Äî a kiosk where Amazon customers can pick up their online-ordered goods. Click here to jump right to the pictures &gt; The new 7-Eleven opened last week¬†‚Äî¬† just in time to celebrate the chain's annual"Free Slurpee Day" on July 11¬†‚Äî¬†and looks more like a cafe than a convenience store, with enough space to seat about 25 people. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs really, really cool, and it feels very different from the other 7-Elevens,‚Äù said 29-year-old Rachel Stallworth, a Fort Greene resident who works nearby. Stallworth enjoyed a coffee in the back seating area on the second day the 7-Eleven was open and said she was impressed with unusual features including beer tap-style beverage dispensers. ‚ÄúIt makes for a more exciting experience,‚Äù she said. The sleeker outpost also offers some healthier menu options, including multi-grain sandwiches, egg whites and specialty salads. And customers can order all of the store's food with just the touch of a screen. ‚ÄúI like anything that you can browse on the screen and not have to talk to employees,‚Äù joked Darci Ratliff, an East Village resident. The John Street 7-Eleven also has a large-screen television that displays the weather, subway delays,¬†sports statistics and stock information.¬† ‚ÄúI‚Äôm hoping they turn more of the stores into something like this,‚Äù Ratliff added. Lena Huang, manager of 7-Eleven‚Äôs Digital Guest Experience, said the new ordering screens, television and Amazon Locker were part of a strategy meant to enhance the store's "hangout" vibe.¬† ‚ÄúI want to make sure that people want to come back," Huang said. "We want to make it everyone‚Äôs neighborhood store ‚Äî that‚Äôs the idea.‚Äù
flickr/mattbuck007Many would-be MBAs expect a salary after graduation that's far in excess of what they can actually earn. The average US MBA student†expects to earn $140,000 on graduating, a 240% increase from the average current pre-enrollment salary of $58,000,†according to†a survey by QS TopMBA.com,† The reality? Payscale puts the median†for grads with 4 or less years of experience at $55,779, and†$71,920 for those with 5-9 years.† Graduates of top schools can usually still expect 6 figures.† MBA salaries†have been flat†for some time now as graduates†price themselves out†of many industries, traditionally lucrative†banks slash pay, and startups†grow increasingly skeptical. Expected salary has gone down slightly from last year, but it's still extremely high.† Students expect a salary that only students from the top schools in the country get close to. In fact, even Harvard and Stanford only reach $140,000 if you add the average bonus on top of salary. Since the survey includes students from the full spectrum of programs, these expectations are far out of step with reality. Students outside the US have even higher expectations, with prospective Indian MBAs expecting a†469% increase, and South Africans, a†387% bump. Here's the report's chart of what incoming MBAs expect around the world: TopMBA.com

CNBC screenshotThe "Sheriff of Wall Street" United States Attorney Preet Bharara sat down with "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer at the CNBC/Institutional Investor conference.¬† His keynote was one of the highlights of the conference last year. ¬† "If your CEO gets contacted by our office, you might want to check if you have a good lawyer," Bharara begins. Bharara says that he's not going to talk about any particular case during this panel. ¬† There are a lot of "arm chair lawyers and arm chair prosecutors" who think they know about the statute of limitations, but they're often wrong, he says.¬† "People shouldn't be waiting for time to run out. That's not a good way to behave. I actually don't wear a watch, for the record." On whether banks are "too big to jail," he says he doesn't think anyone is too big to jail. He says, though, it may be the case that you have a gigantic institution, whether you make toys or are a financial institution, if that's an institution that will go out of business and hundreds of thousands of employees will lose their jobs and shareholders will lose money that's something that has to be taken into account. ¬† People need to understand there are appropriate circumstances where institutions are responsible because they've allowed maleficence to occur, he says.¬† Cramer points out that JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon pointed out that he was surprised some execs weren't prosecuted. He asks if bank execs should bank execs be fearful?¬† "People should be afraid that bad acts they've committed in the past should catch up with them," Bharara says.¬† Cramer is asking him about technology and forms of communication Wall Streeters use that could be potentially ¬†be used to share illegal tips. ¬†Bharara admits he doesn't know what Snapchat is. ¬† "No one should feel safe because they're using a particular method."¬† The CNBC host asked Bharara if he has thought about a higher office ‚Äî Governor of New York of U.S. Attorney General. "I like my job," Bharara said. "I'm doing this job."
Please see my earlier post, on the creation of a Mortgage bond which reviewed 3 parts of the mortgage bond market. Mortgage Trading ‚Äì All about the prepayment risk So how do mortgage bonds trade on Wall Street?¬† How do investors think about the product? Contrary to popular reports, plain-vanilla mortgage bond trading and investing remains among the safest type of investing from a ‚Äòcredit‚Äô perspective.¬† Investors can always expect their full principal and interest returned to them.[1] Our simple FN 8720331 4% bond issued in October 2013 offers investors AAA-risk comparable to US Government bond risk and extreme liquidity, meaning an investor can sell the bond at any time and not pay much in transaction costs. The main and only significant difference between our FN 4% bond and a similar US Treasury bond is the uncertainty of the timing of principal payments.¬† Meaning, the US Treasury does not generally pay back its bond principal early, but a mortgage bond, by contrast, pays a little bit of principal, every single month.¬† In addition, if any of the 2,000 underlying homeowners decides to sell or refinance his house, an unexpected principal repayment flows through to the bondholder. Not if, but when The risk to the bond-holder, therefore, is not¬†if¬†he‚Äôll get paid back, but¬†when.¬† Since in our example 2,000 individual homeowners have the choice over when, anytime in the next 30 years, their individual mortgage gets paid back, the mortgage bond holder is subject to other people‚Äôs choices, which the investor cannot control. The mortgage bond holder, by purchasing the bond, has implicitly sold 2,000 little 30-year options to homeowners. In financial terms, when you sell an option you get paid a premium for that option.¬† That premium shows up in the form of extra ‚Äòyield,‚Äô or investment return over comparable US Treasury bonds.¬† This makes plain vanilla mortgage bonds ‚Äòyield‚Äô more than other AAA-rated bonds, but it also burdens the bond holder with ‚Äòprepayment risk.‚Äô¬† Mortgage investors and mortgage traders spend all of their waking hours stressing about prepayment risk. NSA-sized computer servers, and the greatest minds of our generation are dedicated right now, as I write this, to modeling prepayment risk in mortgage bonds.¬† I didn‚Äôt say they were tapping the phones of those 2,000 homeowners to get a sense of when they will refinance, but I mean seriously, do you doubt it?¬† There‚Äôs a lot of money at stake here, after all. The problem of being a mortgage bond holder, just to dig a bit further into the prepayment problem, is that homeowners always exercise their option to refinance their home at the precisely wrong time, for bond investors. ¬†What do I mean by that? Always on the losing end of volatile markets I mean mortgage bond holders get paid early just when they¬†don‚Äôt¬†want to, and they don‚Äôt get paid back early when they¬†would¬†like to be paid early. When rates drop strongly, for example, many more of our 2,000 homeowners will choose to refinance early to take advantage of the new interest rate savings.¬† That uptick in refinancings will send early payments to the bond holder and amortize his 4% bond more quickly than expected.¬† Unfortunately for the dedicated mortgage bond investor, however, he has to own mortgage bonds, that‚Äôs what he does for a living.¬† So he needs to invest in¬†new¬†mortgage bonds to keep his money earning money.¬† He will have to reinvest his cash at the new lower rate, which might only earn him 3%, since rates dropped strongly. Rate hikes can be even more deadly.¬† If mortgage rates jump to 6%, for example, many fewer of our 2,000 homeowners than usual will opt for refinancing.¬† In fact, only people who move houses (or get foreclosed on) will pay off their mortgage early. Few homeowners elect to refinance into higher interest rate mortgages.¬† Hardly any prepayments flow to the bondholders to amortize the bond.¬† Our bondholder anticipated a certain amount of prepayments and hoped to invest his proceeds at the new higher rates.¬† He can‚Äôt.¬† In the new 6% interest rate world, new mortgage bonds pay close to 6% but our mortgage bond investor still holds our dumb old 4% bond, with less-than-anticipated cash to put into the higher yielding bonds.[2] The more that interest rates move, the worse off the mortgage bond holder fares, in both directions, because he‚Äôs short the prepayment option. In times of volatile interest rate moves, the homeowner holds this very valuable option, and the bond holder suffers as a result. Everything about mortgage trading and investing flows from this fundamental problem ‚Äì the problem of prepayment risk. Mortgage Servicing and Mortgage Derivatives ‚Äì attempts to solve prepayment risk The 2,000 individual homeowners paying their monthly mortgages underneath our theoretical $750 million Fannie 4% bond are really raw financial clay with which Wall Street¬†artistes¬†create financial sculptures. If prepayment risk is the ultimate heavy burden of mortgages, the point of the financial sculpture of mortgage derivatives is to shift risk in ways to defy gravity, ultimately matching investor appetite for prepayment risk. The mortgage servicer who separately pays interest and principal payments to bond-holders plays a key role in making these works of art possible Simple mortgage derivatives CMO¬†‚Äì A Collateralized Mortgage Obligation is a generic term for relatively simple mortgage derivatives, first created 30 years ago, that typically shift prepayment risk forward or backward in time over the life of a mortgage bond. A Wall Street bank may decide to sculpt our FNMA 4% bond into a CMO structure to split the timing of mortgage prepayments. As a simple example, let‚Äôs assume three different investors want three different types of investments. What a savings and loan bank wants A traditional savings and loan bank might be looking for a place to park its cash for up to 2 years and is happy to earn a safe 2% return on its money.¬† Our theoretical bank investor needs everything it is investing in a mortgage bond returned over the next 2 years to make its budget, and it cannot risk tying up its capital much past the next 2 years.¬† Our savings and loan bank needs a CMO structured to receive lots of mortgage prepayments. What an insurance company wants An insurance company, by contrast, typically seeks long-term bond investments to match its need to meet its long-term liabilities, like life insurance payouts.¬† The insurance company seeks a way to invest its capital for 10 years, but needs something more than a bank for that long term investment ‚Äì it seeks a 4.5% return.¬† In addition, the insurance company really does not want to receive early principal payments. The point is to keep its capital earning the 4.5% rate for as long as possible, so the insurance company really wants a CMO structured to help it avoid prepayments. What a hedge fund wants[3] Finally, a hedge fund has a flexible view of yield and the timing of return of capital, but thinks it has a better sense than the rest of the market on the true likely prepayment speed of this FNMA 4% October 2013 cohort.¬† The hedge fund wants to earn extra yield and is willing to stomach the risk of a wider range of bond payment timing outcomes.¬† In financial lingo we‚Äôd say the hedge fund earns the extra premium by being ‚Äúshort‚Äù a volatile pre-payment option. ¬†By buying the CMO with the most volatile outcome, the hedge fund has done the financial equivalent of selling many call and put options to homeowners, and it hopes to profit from this implied sale, if the interest rate environment turns out to be less volatile than expected. Our clever Wall Street firm can assign our FNMA 4% bond to a CMO structure and instruct the mortgage servicer to follow a set algorithm as prepayments arrive over the next 30 years. All principal payments first go to pay the bank‚Äôs CMO until that bond is completely paid off, followed by the hedge fund CMO, followed finally by the insurance company‚Äôs CMO. For the bank‚Äôs CMO all principal payments ‚Äì both the scheduled principal amortization and the unscheduled prepayments ‚Äì get forwarded to this short-term bank CMO.¬† As a result, this bond pays down extremely quickly and will likely return all capital to its holder within the 2 year time frame.¬† There is some uncertainty about timing, but the fact that the bank CMO gets¬†every single principal payment¬†really limits the prepayment timing to within a nice, tight, short range. The bank‚Äôs CMO structure also makes the next two CMOs created from the same FNMA 4% bond possible. The hedge fund CMO only receives principal prepayments after the bank CMO has been fully paid off.¬† As a result, the hedge fund knows it will not be subject to prepayments for some period of time in the very near future.¬† As it is second in line for principal payments, this CMO acts kind of like a shock absorber for the other two bonds, and will be quite sensitive to changes in interest rates and therefore prepayment speeds.¬† The investor in this type of bond, like a hedge fund, will likely believe it has a better read on prepayment risk than others in the market.¬† Because it takes on the most prepayment risk of the three bond structures, the hedge fund will demand the most yield enhancement over comparable AAA bonds to compensate for this increased risk and uncertainty. The insurance company‚Äôs CMO, as third in line for prepayments, has two layers of prepayment ‚Äòprotection.‚Äô¬† Although the timing of principal payments may ultimately differ significantly from the insurance company‚Äôs expectations, the two layers of protection cushion the prepayment risk and keep it within a tighter range than would be otherwise available from a plain-vanilla 4% FNMA bond. By slicing up our mortgage bond pool to meet the demand of three separate investors, the Wall Street firm can, ideally, sell the entire pool at a higher implied price than would be otherwise available in a plain vanilla format.¬† Happy customers, and higher fees, follow. Interest only bonds and principal only bonds ‚Äì another simple CMO structure Because interest and principal payments for our $750 Million 4% FNMA bond can be easily separated by the mortgage servicer, Wall Street desks quickly figured out that some investors want interest only bonds, while others prefer to receive only principal. Who would want an interest-only bond? The first feature of an interest-only bond is its potentially volatile and leveraged nature ‚Äì it fluctuates widely in value if you get the bet right.¬† The second feature is that it moves in the opposite direction of most bonds due to changes in interest rates. Most bonds go down in value as interest rates rise.¬† But interest-only bonds created by mortgage pools will increase in value as rates rise.¬† That‚Äôs because we expect prepayments will drop with a rise in rates, which means that you will receive interest payments on the 2,000 underlying pools for a much longer time, as fewer homeowners extinguish their mortgage through refinancing. The price of an interest only bond will shoot upwards if interest rates unexpectedly shoot upwards and prepayment expectations drop accordingly. If I as a mortgage investor need to hedge my mortgage portfolio against an unexpected rise in rates, I might shop for interest only bonds.¬† If my entire portfolio is likely to lose value when rates rise, I benefit from the hedge of owning bonds that rise in value when rates rise. Conversely, a bet on a principal only mortgage bond may be a type of bet on a decline in interest rates.¬† Principal only mortgage derivatives will be especially sensitive to changes in rates. Principal only mortgages trade at a discount to face value.¬† If prepayments arrive more quickly than expected (due to, say, an unexpected increase in refinancing activity) the principal-only mortgage holder wins.¬† Every principal payment is made at ‚Äòpar,‚Äô causing an investment gain versus the discounted price at which the investor bought the entire principal-only mortgage derivative. If for example I bought my principal only bond at 80 cents on the dollar, but 10% of my 2,000 underlying mortgages prepay early this month, I‚Äôll get 10% of my investment returned to me at 100 cents on the dollar.¬† That‚Äôs a win. Funkier structures ‚Äì More CMOs Traditionally, mortgage structuring desks attracted some of the brainiest folks on Wall Street.[4] With the raw material of a home mortgages, the creativity of these¬†artistes¬†knows few limits.¬† Some CMOs provide precise prepayment certainty to risk-averse investors, as long as other ‚Äòcompanion bonds‚Äô serve as shock absorbers for unpredictable prepayment risk. ¬†Companion bonds will be retained by Wall Street mortgage desks comfortable with the risk, or may be bought by hedge funds with a higher risk appetite or a strong conviction about future prepayment risk. Some CMOs offer floating interest rate structures to investors seeking to eliminate interest-rate risk exposure, while creating ever-more algorithmically complex ‚Äòcompanion bonds.‚Äô For those curious about the ever-awesomer financial sculptures the smartest minds of our generation can create,¬†I recommend this Wikepedia page. Recent market moves must have been ugly Interest rates shot up more than 0.5% in May and June.¬† For mortgage bond holders, interest-rate volatility generally hurts, and rising rates provide a double whammy to the problem. There is no doubt this kind of movement is career-making and career-ending for Wall Street folks.¬† Rates have been so low, for so long, that some mortgage desks will be positioned right, and many more will prove in retrospect to have been positioned wrong. If you held a preponderance of IOs, or some extraordinary floating rate structures, or got massively short interest rates in April 2013, you‚Äôre probably ok. For a great number of mortgage investors and traders, however, I suspect they didn‚Äôt save themselves from huge losses. Also, see previous posts on Mortgages: Part I ‚Äì I refinanced my mortgage and today I‚Äôm a Golden God Part II ‚Äì Should I pay my mortgage early? Part III ‚Äì Why are 15-year mortgages cheaper than 30-year mortgages? Part IV ‚Äì What are Mortgage Points?¬† Are they good, bad or indifferent? Part V ‚Äì Is mortgage debt ‚Äògood debt‚Äô A dangerous drug?¬† Or Both? Part VI ‚Äì Mortgage bond creation on Wall Street And upcoming, the Mortgage Crisis of 2008 [1]¬†Before you get smart-assed about all the scary bond losses you read about once in a Gretchen Morgenson article, let me reiterate that I said plain-vanilla mortgage bonds, not risky portions of mortgage-backed CDOs or sub-prime structured products. [2]¬†Adding insult to injury, if it‚Äôs an un-hedged mortgage bond position, his bond also trades significantly below par.¬† So if he decides to sell the 4% bond to buy a 6%, he‚Äôll take a loss.¬† Rate hikes are hard on all bond investors, but especially mortgage bond investors. [3]¬†If you were born around the same time as me, it‚Äôs what you want Joel.¬† Its what every white boy off the lake wants.¬† [4]¬†Plenty of raw idiocy and barbaric types too, of course, like any testosterone-fueled environment, anywhere.¬† For a humorous depiction of the brutal origins of the market, look no further than the original¬†Michael Lewis classic, Liar‚Äôs Poker.
At 8:30 a.m. today, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke published his prepared remarks for his 10:00 a.m. testimony to the House Financial Service Committee. His intention for this was to give Congress plenty of time to formulate some good questions ahead of his appearance. But was that really a good idea? UBS's Art Cashin warns that Bernanke may have set himself up for trouble. From this morning's Cashin's Comments: Bernanke Testimony ‚Äì A Surprise Before The Surprises ‚Äì The multi-decade format of the traditional bi-annual testimony of the Fed Chairman will see a rather significant change this morning.¬† Here is a note that I sent some friends near dawn: There is a new wrinkle today's in Humphrey Hawkins format.¬† The House Financial Services Committee has asked for early access to the Bernanke text.¬† It will now be released at 8:30 for the 10:00 a.m. testimony and Q&amp;A. Optimists hope that means more informed questions.¬† Cynics fear election campaign sound bytes.¬† Could make for more surprises. For the veteran trader's cynical perspective, let's turn to my friend, Jim Brown in his Option Investor note this morning: The Fed is going to release the Bernanke comments at 8:30 with the actual testimony to start at 10:00. I believe this is going to open Bernanke up to an onslaught of pointed questions that could produce some unwanted results. Remember, Bernanke is assumed to be a lame duck whose term expires on January 31st. He really has nothing to lose by being blunt in his comments over the country's fiscal problems. He has been blunt in the past about the amount of drag the government is inflicting on the economy. This could turn into a hostile testimony since lawmakers have 90 minutes for their staff to come up with questions designed to embarrass Bernanke and give the lawmaker a sound bite to use in his next election campaign. The optimists hope the early release will allow the staff to actually read the text and formulate a few meaningful policy questions based on its content.¬† Yeah, I know, it's Washington but a guy can hope, can't he? One other aspect of the early release ‚Äì the action in the futures and the bond market will tell Bernanke and his staff what aspects the markets are focused on and, thus, he may guide his answers to address that.¬† At any rate, it will be interesting and new. Bernanke has been all about transparency. Perhaps that was his true intention here. This is something that couldn't be said about his predecessor Alan Greenspan. Here's High Frequency Economics Jim O'Sullivan: "Mr. Greenspan relished his lack of transparency: ‚ÄúIf I seem unduly clear to you, you must have misunderstood what I said.‚Äù Chairman Bernanke is more of a straight talker."

Markets are moving in the wake of Ben Bernanke's new dovish comments and a notably disappointing housing starts report. Gold jumped to $1,295, around $10 higher than where they were ahead of the 8:30 a.m. news dump. Here's a look via FinViz: FinViz
WikipediaBill Gates' infamous video-taped testimony in the Microsoft anti-trust trial.In the late 1990s, a single technology company became so unfathomably rich and powerful ó and so hellbent on dominating not just its own industry but a massive and rapidly growing new one ó that the U.S. government dragged the company into court and threatened to break it up over anti-trust violations. The case was settled, and the company, Microsoft, agreed to play nicer. But it turned out that the world had nothing to worry about. As often happens in the technology industry, what has really destroyed Microsoft's choke hold on the global personal computing market over the past 15 years hasn't been a legal threat but a market shift. Just when it looked like Microsoft's vision of the PC as the center of the tech world would lead to the creation of the world's first trillion-dollar company, the Internet came along. And it washed over the PC industry like a tidal wave swallowing a pond. In terms of market value, Microsoft's loss of power has long been visible: The stock is still trading at about half the level it hit at the peak of the tech boom 13 years ago. The effects on the actual PC industry fundamentals have taken longer to develop, but they are also now crystal clear. Microsoft's "Windows monopoly" hasn't been so much destroyed as rendered irrelevant. Thanks to the explosion of Internet-based cloud computing and smartphones, tablets, and other mobile gadgets, the once all-powerful platform of the desktop operating system has now been reduced to little more than a device driver. As long as your gadget can connect to the Internet and run some apps, it doesn't matter what operating system you use. Three charts really bring home the challenges that Microsoft and other PC-powered giants like Intel, Dell, and Hewlett-Packard face in adapting to this new Internet-driven world. First, look at global device shipments. For the two decades through 2005, the personal computer was the only game in town, selling about 200 million units a year. But then smartphones and tablets came along. And now they dwarf the PC market. BII This shift in personal computing device adoption, meanwhile, has radically diminished the power of the Windows operating system platform. As recently as three years ago, Microsoft's Windows was still totally dominant ó the platform ran 70% of personal computing devices. Now, thanks to the rise of Google's Android and Apple's iOS, Windows' global share has been cut in half, to about 30%. More remarkably, Android is now a bigger platform than Windows. BII Lastly, and most recently, this chart from analyst Horace Dediu of Asymco illustrates that the PC business is no longer just getting dwarfed by the explosion of smartphone and tablet sales ... it has now actually begun to shrink. Now that people have a choice of devices, it turns out that a full-blown personal computer is often not the most cost-effective, convenient, or simplest way to do what a user wants to do. Instead of being the center of the personal computing world, in other words, the PC is becoming a specialized office-productivity device. Horace Dediu, Asymco The news for Microsoft is not all bad. The company has been quite successful at moving from a "unit-driven" sales model to a licensing model, in which companies pay a fee per user per year rather than buying a perpetual license with each new computer. And Microsoft's Office franchise is still extraordinarily profitable and dominant, in part because Google, Apple, and other more Internet-centric companies have made so little investment in their competitive products. But only 15 years after the government went after Microsoft for anti-trust violations, the idea that the company ever had a "monopoly" on anything is hard to even understand. And the outlook for Windows, and the traditional PC business in general, seems sure to get even worse going forward.
bobolink / FlickrHousing starts missed expectations falling 9.9% month-over-month to an annualized pace of 836,000. Economists were looking for the pace of starts to climb 5.0% to 960,000 annualized. Building permits fell 7.5% MoM to 911,000. Economists were looking for permits to rise 1.5% to 1 million. Housing starts for May were revised up to show an 8.9% MoM rise to 928,000. Meanwhile permits were revised up as well, to show a more modest 2% fall to 985,000. It is possible that homebuilders were spooked by the rise in mortgage rates.  Yesterday we saw homebuilder confidence surge to 57. Homebuilder confidence is expected to be a leading indicator for housing starts. But Paul Diggle at Capital Economics tweeted that the NAHB has a "history of over-exuberance as a predictor of starts." But note NAHB homebuilder confidence has a history of over-exuberance as a predictor of starts pic.twitter.com/JN2iMZaMQe
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid The Federal Reserve just published the prepared text of Chairman Ben Bernanke's testimony to Congress. It will also include the Monetary Policy Report. The tone is dovish, which means the odds of extended easy monetary policy are up. The June report on housing starts and building permits just came out, and the numbers were particularly disappointing Dow futures are up 22 points. S&amp;P futures are up 5 points. The 10-year yield is at 2.48%. Ahead of the reports, markets weren't doing much. Dow futures were up 1 point. S&amp;P futures were up 1 point. The 10-year yield was at 2.55%. And gold is at $1286.
REUTERS/Dominick ReuterFederal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke attends a meeting of the National Bureau of Economic Research in Cambridge, Massachusetts July 10, 2013. Bernanke's prepared remarks for today's Humphrey Hawkins Congressional testimony are out. The main headline is that the path of bond purchases going forward is not on a "preset course." Stocks, bonds, and gold are rising following the release. Bernanke will deliver the remarks before the House Financial Services Committee beginning at 10 AM ET, followed by a Q&amp;A. Click here for an in-depth preview &gt; Market participants will be listening closely for any clues about the Fed's assessment of the economy and when the Fed may begin to taper quantitative easing. Below is the full text of Bernanke's prepared remarks. Chairman Hensarling, Ranking Member Waters, and other members of the Committee, I am pleased to present the Federal Reserve's semiannual†Monetary Policy Report†to the Congress. I will discuss current economic conditions and the outlook and then turn to monetary policy. I'll finish with a short summary of our ongoing work on regulatory reform. The Economic OutlookThe economic recovery has continued at a moderate pace in recent quarters despite the strong headwinds created by federal fiscal policy. Housing has contributed significantly to recent gains in economic activity. Home sales, house prices, and residential construction have moved up over the past year, supported by low mortgage rates and improved confidence in both the housing market and the economy. Rising housing construction and home sales are adding to job growth, and substantial increases in home prices are bolstering household finances and consumer spending while reducing the number of homeowners with underwater mortgages. Housing activity and prices seem likely to continue to recover, notwithstanding the recent increases in mortgage rates, but it will be important to monitor developments in this sector carefully. Conditions in the labor market are improving gradually. The unemployment rate stood at 7.6 percent in June, about a half percentage point lower than in the months before the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) initiated its current asset purchase program in September. Nonfarm payroll employment has increased by an average of about 200,000 jobs per month so far this year. Despite these gains, the jobs situation is far from satisfactory, as the unemployment rate remains well above its longer-run normal level, and rates of underemployment and long-term unemployment are still much too high. Meanwhile, consumer price inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent. The price index for personal consumption expenditures rose only 1 percent over the year ending in May. This softness reflects in part some factors that are likely to be transitory. Moreover, measures of longer-term inflation expectations have generally remained stable, which should help move inflation back up toward 2 percent. However, the Committee is certainly aware that very low inflation poses risks to economic performance--for example, by raising the real cost of capital investment--and increases the risk of outright deflation. Consequently, we will monitor this situation closely as well, and we will act as needed to ensure that inflation moves back toward our 2 percent objective over time. At the June FOMC meeting, my colleagues and I projected that economic growth would pick up in coming quarters, resulting in gradual progress toward the levels of unemployment and inflation consistent with the Federal Reserve's statutory mandate to foster maximum employment and price stability. Specifically, most participants saw real GDP growth beginning to step up during the second half of this year, eventually reaching a pace between 2.9 and 3.6 percent in 2015. They projected the unemployment rate to decline to between 5.8 and 6.2 percent by the final quarter of 2015. And they saw inflation gradually increasing toward the Committee's 2 percent objective.1† The pickup in economic growth projected by most Committee participants partly reflects their view that federal fiscal policy will exert somewhat less drag over time, as the effects of the tax increases and the spending sequestration diminish. The Committee also believes that risks to the economy have diminished since the fall, reflecting some easing of financial stresses in Europe, the gains in housing and labor markets that I mentioned earlier, the better budgetary positions of state and local governments, and stronger household and business balance sheets. That said, the risks remain that tight federal fiscal policy will restrain economic growth over the next few quarters by more than we currently expect, or that the debate concerning other fiscal policy issues, such as the status of the debt ceiling, will evolve in a way that could hamper the recovery. More generally, with the recovery still proceeding at only a moderate pace, the economy remains vulnerable to unanticipated shocks, including the possibility that global economic growth may be slower than currently anticipated. Monetary PolicyWith unemployment still high and declining only gradually, and with inflation running below the Committee's longer-run objective, a highly accommodative monetary policy will remain appropriate for the foreseeable future. In normal circumstances, the Committee's basic tool for providing monetary accommodation is its target for the federal funds rate. However, the target range for the federal funds rate has been close to zero since late 2008 and cannot be reduced meaningfully further. Instead, we are providing additional policy accommodation through two distinct yet complementary policy tools. The first tool is expanding the Federal Reserve's portfolio of longer-term Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS); we are currently purchasing $40 billion per month in agency MBS and $45 billion per month in Treasuries. The second tool is "forward guidance" about the Committee's plans for setting the federal funds rate target over the medium term. Within our overall policy framework, we think of these two tools as having somewhat different roles. We are using asset purchases and the resulting expansion of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet primarily to increase the near-term momentum of the economy, with the specific goal of achieving a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market in a context of price stability. We have made some progress toward this goal, and, with inflation subdued, we intend to continue our purchases until a substantial improvement in the labor market outlook has been realized. In addition, even after purchases end, the Federal Reserve will be holding its stock of Treasury and agency securities off the market and reinvesting the proceeds from maturing securities, which will continue to put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. We are relying on near-zero short-term interest rates, together with our forward guidance that rates will continue to be exceptionally low--our second tool--to help maintain a high degree of monetary accommodation for an extended period after asset purchases end, even as the economic recovery strengthens and unemployment declines toward more-normal levels. In appropriate combination, these two tools can provide the high level of policy accommodation needed to promote a stronger economic recovery with price stability. In the interest of transparency, Committee participants agreed in June that it would be helpful to lay out more details about our thinking regarding the asset purchase program--specifically, to provide additional information on our assessment of progress to date, as well as of the likely trajectory of the program if the economy evolves as projected. This agreement to provide additional information did not reflect a change in policy. The Committee's decisions regarding the asset purchase program (and the overall stance of monetary policy) depend on our assessment of the economic outlook and of the cumulative progress toward our objectives. Of course, economic forecasts must be revised when new information arrives and are thus necessarily provisional. As I noted, the economic outcomes that Committee participants saw as most likely in their June projections involved continuing gains in labor markets, supported by moderate growth that picks up over the next several quarters as the restraint from fiscal policy diminishes. Committee participants also saw inflation moving back toward our 2 percent objective over time. If the incoming data were to be broadly consistent with these projections, we anticipated that it would be appropriate to begin to moderate the monthly pace of purchases later this year. And if the subsequent data continued to confirm this pattern of ongoing economic improvement and normalizing inflation, we expected to continue to reduce the pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half of next year, ending them around midyear. At that point, if the economy had evolved along the lines we anticipated, the recovery would have gained further momentum, unemployment would be in the vicinity of 7 percent, and inflation would be moving toward our 2 percent objective. Such outcomes would be fully consistent with the goals of the asset purchase program that we established in September. I emphasize that, because our asset purchases depend on economic and financial developments, they are by no means on a preset course. On the one hand, if economic conditions were to improve faster than expected, and inflation appeared to be rising decisively back toward our objective, the pace of asset purchases could be reduced somewhat more quickly. On the other hand, if the outlook for employment were to become relatively less favorable, if inflation did not appear to be moving back toward 2 percent, or if financial conditions--which have tightened recently--were judged to be insufficiently accommodative to allow us to attain our mandated objectives, the current pace of purchases could be maintained for longer. Indeed, if needed, the Committee would be prepared to employ all of its tools, including an increase the pace of purchases for a time, to promote a return to maximum employment in a context of price stability. As I noted, the second tool the Committee is using to support the recovery is forward guidance regarding the path of the federal funds rate. The Committee has said it intends to maintain a high degree of monetary accommodation for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee anticipates that its current exceptionally low target range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent and inflation and inflation expectations remain well behaved in the sense described in the FOMC's statement. As I have observed on several occasions, the phrase "at least as long as" is a key component of the policy rate guidance. These words indicate that the specific numbers for unemployment and inflation in the guidance are thresholds, not triggers. Reaching one of the thresholds would not automatically result in an increase in the federal funds rate target; rather, it would lead the Committee to consider whether the outlook for the labor market, inflation, and the broader economy justified such an increase. For example, if a substantial part of the reductions in measured unemployment were judged to reflect cyclical declines in labor force participation rather than gains in employment, the Committee would be unlikely to view a decline in unemployment to 6-1/2 percent as a sufficient reason to raise its target for the federal funds rate. Likewise, the Committee would be unlikely to raise the funds rate if inflation remained persistently below our longer-run objective. Moreover, so long as the economy remains short of maximum employment, inflation remains near our longer-run objective, and inflation expectations remain well anchored, increases in the target for the federal funds rate, once they begin, are likely to be gradual. Regulatory ReformI will finish by providing you with a brief update on progress on reforms to reduce the systemic risk of the largest financial firms. As Governor Tarullo discussed in his testimony last week before the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, the Federal Reserve, with the other federal banking agencies, adopted a final rule earlier this month to implement the Basel III capital reforms.2†The final rule increases the quantity and quality of required regulatory capital by establishing a new minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio and implementing a capital conservation buffer. The rule also contains a supplementary leverage ratio and a countercyclical capital buffer that apply only to large and internationally active banking organizations, consistent with their systemic importance. In addition, the Federal Reserve will propose capital surcharges on firms that pose the greatest systemic risk and will issue a proposal to implement the Basel III quantitative liquidity requirements as they are phased in over the next few years. The Federal Reserve is considering further measures to strengthen the capital positions of large, internationally active banks, including the proposed rule issued last week that would increase the required leverage ratios for such firms.3† The Fed also is working to finalize the enhanced prudential standards set out in sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Among these standards, rules relating to stress testing and resolution planning already are in place, and we have been actively engaged in stress tests and reviewing the "first-wave" resolution plans. In coordination with other agencies, we have made significant progress on the key substantive issues relating to the Volcker rule and are hoping to complete it by year-end. Finally, the Federal Reserve is preparing to regulate and supervise systemically important nonbank financial firms. Last week, the Financial Stability Oversight Council designated two nonbank financial firms; it has proposed the designation of a third firm, which has requested a hearing before the council.4†We are developing a supervisory and regulatory framework that can be tailored to each firm's business mix, risk profile, and systemic footprint, consistent with the Collins amendment and other legal requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Thank you. I would be pleased to take your questions.
FlickrU.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew gave the opening keynote at the CNBC/Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha Conference to a room full of hedge funders and institutional investors. In his first speech to a large group of Wall Streeters, he talked about financial regulation. †(Next week is the third anniversary of Dodd-Frank.) "By the end of this year, the core elements of the Dodd-Frank Act will be in place." He also fired a shot at the audience. Lew said there were some, including "some in this room", who attempted to weaken the bill and slow down implementation.† The reason for financial regulation, he explained, is that when President Obama took office in 2008, the economy was in free fall. Some financial firms took on too much risk and sold risky financial products. During that time, regulators failed to detect the abuses that occurred.† "Putting out the fires was not enough," Lew said, adding that they had to strengthen the rules. Lew said that Dodd-Frank did not stifle growth. †Instead, he says banks have more capital on hand and that the housing market is recovering and home values are recovering across the country. He notes that there are some lingering scars from the crisis.
For all the promising data we've seen about the so-called "housing recovery," it's important to realize it is just that¬†‚Äî a¬†recovery. Though some are calling the spike a housing bubble 2.0, home prices are still way off their 2006 highs (which is good, since that was a bubble of epic proportion). "Overall, the recovery has been rather uneven, with states that enjoyed the largest home price increases before the recession still far from their prior peaks and states that missed the housing boom closer to recovering their losses," writes CoreLogic's¬†Kathryn Dobbyn in a new report. CNBC's Diana Olick highlights this chart from CoreLogic: CoreLogic Dobbyn notes that Arizona, which has recently seen huge home price appreciation, is still¬†45.6 percent from the peak it hit 7 years ago. Even if the state maintains its current appreciation rate, it would still take another 35 months for Arizona to get back to its highs. "Speculating on a new bubble is likely premature," concludes Dobbyn.
REUTERS/Jason ReedU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke takes questions during a news conference following the Fed's two-day policy meeting at the Federal Reserve in Washington, June 19, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
lewisha1990 on flickrBank of America's Q2 financial results are out. Earnings jumped to $0.32 per share from $0.19 per share a year ago. This was well ahead of the $0.24 expected by economists. This comes on $22.9 billion of revenue. "At the beginning of the year, we said we would focus on three things revenue stability, strengthening the balance sheet and managing costs," said CFO Bruce Thompson. "This quarter, we delivered on all three. Revenue increased 3 percent, we continued to build capital ratios, despite the negative impact of higher interest rates on our bond portfolio, and we reduced expenses related to servicing delinquent mortgage loans at a faster rate than we originally expected." ¬† Click Here For The Full Announcement &gt;
Flickr/glassguy12345Early adopters of Google Glass get a palpable thrill out of saying "OK Glass" before speaking commands to Google's voice-activated augmented eyewear. But how much more thrilled would they be if the activation phrase was "Glass Alive", "Go Go Glass" or "Pew Pew Pew"? These, according to product marketing manager Amanda Rosenberg, were among the rejected options in the early days of Glass' development. She has published a list of so-called "hotwords" supplied by Glass product manager Mat Balez, although he may well have had tongue firmly in cheek when compiling it. Rosenberg revealed the list as part of an explanation of how "OK Glass" got the nod, after she came up with idea over dinner with Balez and his wife shortly before getting her job on the Glass team in 2012. "He then asked me if I had any ideas for the hotword. In that moment the only phrase I could think of was 'OK Glass'. I didn't tell him straightaway though. Instead, I continued to look pensive and muttered something about 'looking into it' just to appear as though I was going to put more than 3 seconds of work into it," wrote Rosenberg on Google+. "When I got home, I tried my best to think of something else, anything else so that I could at least have a few options to send to Mat. Alas, I could not think of any others. I've been fortunately cursed with a one-track mind. So, I decided to put all my Glass eggs in one basket and send over a rationale for 'OK Glass'... A week later, it was implemented." Rosenberg has published the email she sent to Balez in April 2012 making the case for "OK" as "the most frequently used word on the planet. Denotes approval, acceptance, agreement, assent or acknowledgment, but is also a frequent expression used for transitions in conversation". It's the list of alternatives that were supposedly being considered, provided by Balez in 2013, that's raising chuckles today. The examples pulled out by Rosenberg: Listen up Glass Hear me now Let me use Glass to Go Go Glass Clap on Device, please 3, 2, 1... Glassicus Glass alive Pew pew pew The most striking point here, though, is the human element of the anecdote. Despite everything you've read about Google's famed love of iteration through exhaustive A/B testing ñ†40 shades of blue links and the like ñ†the potentially-iconic hotword for Google Glass was a Eureka moment for one person, in a car back from dinner, racking their brains for a better alternative. Not that testing didn't play a role. "Coming up with the phrase was the easy part. Figuring out if it would work, was another story. There's a whole team at Glass who worked very hard testing and implementing it before it was adopted," writes Rosenberg. "It's hugely exciting to hear "OK Glass" being used today. That said, 'Device, please' is growing on me." Did the Glass team miss a trick though? "OK Glass" seems set as the activation phrase for now, but feel free to suggest your own alternatives in the comments section. "To me, to you", "Check this Maven out right here" and "ALRIGHT NOW!" (bellowed like Reef's Gary Stringer in Place Your Hands) being my suggestions ñ†or at least my strong evidence for why Google has never tried to poach me for a product marketing job. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets have gotten more red. After being pretty much flat early this morning, things are down as the world waits for Ben Bernanke's monetary policy speech at 8:30 AM ET. In Europe, the big loser is Spain, where stocks are off just under 1%. Italy is down 0.5%. Germany is down 0.6%. US futures are still off small. Click here for a guide to some of the language that Bernanke could use today in his testimony before Congress.
LONDON (Reuters) - The number of Britons claiming unemployment benefit fell for an eighth consecutive month in June and at its fastest rate for three years in the latest sign that Britain's economic recovery is gaining momentum. The Office for National Statistics said the number of people claiming jobless benefit fell by 21,200 last month. Economists had expected a drop of just 8,000. A large favorable revision to the prior month added to the robust picture. Britain's central bank has refrained from injecting fresh stimulus into the economy in the form of quantitative easing this year and focused its efforts on initiatives to boost lending to households and businesses. The number of people without a job on the wider and lagging ILO measure dropped by 57,000 in the three months to May to 2.5 million. The ILO jobless rate held steady 7.8 percent, as expected. One way employers have been able to keep staff is by limiting pay rises. Average weekly earnings growth including bonuses picked up slightly to 1.7 percent in the three months through May compared to a year earlier, still well below inflation. Excluding bonuses, pay grew by just 1.0 percent. (Reporting by Christina Fincher and Christine Murray) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Wikimedia CommonsA few weeks ago, US equity markets were experiencing turbulence on news that the Fed was inclined to "taper" the pace of Quantitative Easing, the program whereby the Fed buys bonds in order to make monetary policy looser. But the freakout didn't last long, when it became clear that the Fed wasn't really in a rush to tighten. Instead it became clear (especially after Bernanke spoke last week) that while the Fed was eager to reduce QE, it had no interest in increasing interest rates, and if anything it might extend zero interest rates for longer than people thought. In other words, the Fed is leaning less on asset purchases, and more on guidance, and other promises to keep rates very low. There are various reason for why this might be: The Fed could be concerned that QE helps contribute to a shortage of safe assets in the market. Or it might be worried about the swollen size of the Fed's balance sheet, and the challenges associated with winding it down. Or maybe the Fed doesn't really think asset purchases accomplish anything. Whatever the reason is, it doesn't seem unique to the Federal Reserve. The Bank of England just came out with minutes of its last monetary policy meeting (the first one with new chief Mark Carney), and it too gave the same indication, that it wasn't eager to do more QE, and that instead it would likely rely on other measures, such as guidance. Ed Conway of Sky News flags a key passage from the minutes: An expansion of the asset purchase programme remained one means of injecting stimulus, but the Committee would be investigating other options during the month, and it was therefore sensible not to initiate an expansion at this meeting. Given the already large size of the asset purchase programme, there was merit in pursuing a mixed strategy with regards to the different policy instruments at the Committee‚Äôs disposal. The Committee‚Äôs August response to the requirement in its remit to assess the merits of forward guidance and intermediate thresholds would shed light on both the quantum of additional stimulus required and the form it should take. We already know that at the meeting (which took place on July 4) the Bank of England explored the policy of using more forward guidance, the way the Federal Reserve has for some time. So: Guidance, thresholds, promises are the new black. QE: Out.
Yesterday‚Äôs CPI report confirmed what most people think ‚Äì inflation is running much cooler than most presume. ¬†This isn‚Äôt shocking when we consider the high unemployment rate, the low capacity utilization, the substantial output gap and the generally sluggish conditions. ¬†Producers just don‚Äôt have a huge amount of pricing power given the weakness of aggregate demand. ¬† But inflation isn‚Äôt always an even phenomenon and asset price inflation has become an increasingly dangerous phenomenon in recent years. Of course, this has been nowhere more apparent than it is in the real estate market where soaring prices only just recently led to a near collapse in the US economy. ¬†And while I became fairly bullish on housing last year I have to admit that the level of the rally in real estate has been very surprising. ¬†Prices are up 12.2% year over year according to CoreLogic. Of course, this is a tricky way to view inflation because the BLS doesn‚Äôt count housing prices as consumption, but investment. ¬†I don‚Äôt think the investment/consumption view of real estate is quite so black and white which is why I embed real estate prices in the Orcam Housing Adjust Price Index. ¬†The latest reading on the OHAPI is showing 4% year over year inflation. ¬†That‚Äôs more than double what the CPI is saying. Now, this might not accurately reflect a price basket as well as the CPI does, but inflation is always and everywhere an uneven phenomenon and asset price inflation in the consumer‚Äôs most important balance sheet item is worth keeping an eye on. ¬†Had we tracked something like the OHAPI in the early 2000‚Ä≤s we would have never fallen for the idea that inflation was low during the biggest housing boom in US history. ¬†Had the Fed been viewing price changes through a gauge like this they might have been faster to tighten policy and get ahead of what was clearly a dangerous trend. Are we getting into a dangerous environment like we saw in 2007? ¬†I certainly don‚Äôt think so quite yet, but Fed policy should be proactive and not reactive. ¬†To me, the path forward appears obvious. ¬†I think QE is having more destabilizing than stabilizing effects here and the Fed could probably do a great deal to cool real estate trends before they potentially get out of hand again by simply ending the QE program. ¬†The Fed could maintain ZIRP, but eliminate what is perceived as an asset inflationary policy. ¬† I don‚Äôt think inflation is at risk of running out of control here, but the uneven price action in some markets is something we should be aware of before it‚Äôs too late. Orgam Research ¬†(Orcam Housing Adjusted Price Index via Orcam Research)
From Morgan Stanley, the entire US economic debate. Morgan Stanley
Matthew Lewis / Getty Images Bernanke is testifying in front of Congress today about monetary policy. It will be the final Humphrey-Hawkins testimony of his career. Humphrey-Hawkins is the twice-per-year update on the state of the Fed that the Chairman must deliver, first to the House, and then to the Senate. There's an obsession with Fed speak these days, given the widespread understanding that the discussions about "exit" from highly stimulative policy have begun, and that we're in a post-crisis world that may before too long not require as much easing as we've seen in the years since the collapse. And of course, there's a long history of Fed Kremlinology, where economists and traders try to pick apart literally every world to see if they connote a bias towards tightening (hawkishness) or loose policy (dovishness). So to feed your inner action junkie, that wants to figure connect every market blip to each word that comes out of Bernanke's mouth today, we wanted to spotlight this from a note from Citi's currency analyst Steven Englander. Dovish phrases ñ ëGrowth outturns weaker than we expectí, ëUS can support 200k plus payrollsí, ëLow inflation could continue unless offset by policyí; Hawkish phrases ñ ëNot clear how much jobs growth needed to get to full employmentí, ëNo way for 2013 FOMC to pre-commit 2014 or 2015 FOMC on policyí, ëTapering will not be derailed by back up of bond yieldsí, any indication that Fed saw froth asset markets, ëWe expect growth to rebound stronglyí, ëInflation very likely to pick up to target over time. Those are your bingo words ladies and gentlemen. Listen closely for them or any variations, and then overreact accordingly.
REUTERS/Jim Young Markets are doing nothing. Everywhere we look, whether it's in Asia, Europe, or the US futures market, there's virtually no change. The world is waiting for Ben Bernanke's final Humphrey-Hawkins testimony (his semi-annual testimony to Congress on monetary policy). His speech will be released at 8:30 AM ET, and his appearance will be at 10:00 AM. People are obsessed with Fed Speak, and there should be a bevy of phrases to obsess over. For a full preview of the stakes, PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian wrote a preview for us, on Bernanke's high-wire act.
