Click for sound. ¬† [Interview archive from April 2010] Maria Bartiromo, who just left CNBC after 20 years of working for the network to join Fox Business News, talks about how she deals with criticism from the media and her audience, which has been judging everything about her over the years ‚Äì from changing hairstyles to weight gain.
It's almost turkey time. Millions of Americans will soon be diving into the big bird, smothering it with gravy or cranberry sauce or both. Many will also face the scornful stare of their vegetarian cousin, silently asking, "do you know how that turkey got here?" We can assure you: You don't want to know. From conception to carcass, here's the short, hellish life-cycle of some industry-produced turkeys.
Paul Szoldra/Business InsiderEach seat had their own screenI took a direct flight from New York to San Francisco last week, and like most people about to board, I was ready for the inevitable boredom and discomfort of being stuck in an airplane for six hours. But it took less than 30 seconds after finding my economy seat to realize that this wouldn‚Äôt be your average flight. Every single seat on United flight 257 ‚Äî a Boeing 757-200 ‚Äî had a USB outlet, a full-size power outlet, and a personal "Entertainment on Demand" touchscreen for movies, television shows, and music. In an age of ‚Äúlet‚Äôs just jam everyone on an airplane and sell the tickets cheap," the extras are a nice change of pace. So I plugged in my iPhone to the USB port and had a full battery upon landing. I could have pulled out my laptop and worked without having constantly to look at my battery percentage. But the screen was the best part:¬†United had this thing loaded with new and old television shows and movies ‚Äî from action to comedy to drama (If you're wondering, I watched "Dr. Strangelove" and then "Grumpy Old Men" ‚Äî sticking to the classics) ‚Äî and it made the hours go by extremely fast. The kid next to me was playing games, and the man in front of me often checked where the flight was on the GPS. Will your next flight have them? Thankfully in-flight entertainment (IFE) and power outlet access is expanding, according to aerospace analyst Heath Lockett of IHS Research. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs part of the natural course of upgrading and moving with the times," Lockett told Business Insider. While these perks started exclusively in first and business class, they are increasingly being offered to all passengers. "Economy is 85% of seats on aircraft, so it‚Äôs inevitable that it becomes more common in economy," Lockett said. " ‚Ä¶ It‚Äôs moving more predominately into wide-body aircraft. It makes sense given the longer flight times and need for power over that period." While some airlines offer screens built into the seatback, others are adopting a cheaper alternative: wireless IFE, an entertainment system beamed from a central server on the plane to your iPad or other tablet. "There are definitely advantages to push people down the wireless IFE route, certainly in the next three to five years," said Lockett. "I‚Äôd expect to see that more in the narrow body [planes] as opposed to wide body." Lockett's research shows only about 7% of the global airline fleet currently equipped with some version of in-flight entertainment, but that's expected to rise to 29% by 2022. Growth of power outlets for passengers looks much more rapid, hitting roughly 62% of global seats by 2022, up from 18% currently. ‚ÄúI think passengers will expect airlines to fly with in-flight power," Lockett said. "Once one [airline] does it, pretty much everyone else needs to follow. It‚Äôs such a competitive industry ‚Äî you can‚Äôt afford to be left behind." Here's what it all looked like: Paul SzoldraThe USB port below the screen Paul Szoldra/Business InsiderThe power outlet between seats Paul Szoldra/Business InsiderThe movie selection
Wikimedia CommonsSisyphus punished by being forced to roll a boulder up a hill, watch it roll down and repeat the action.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investor Behavior Is The Same As It Ever Was (Vanguard Advisors Blog) The financial crisis did not change investor behavior, according to Fran Kinniry, a principal in Vanguard Investment Strategy Group. "Investors continue to follow returns." Pointing to an earlier blog post, Kinniry writes I sent up a warning flare about the strong returns of the stock market and the likely effect they would have on investors‚Äô views of this asset class. At the time, stock mutual funds‚Äô cash flows were relatively weak compared with the levels over the prior two decades, while bond mutual funds‚Äô cash flows remained very strong. Fast forward a few months and we are now seeing‚Äîfor the first time since the onset of the global financial crisis‚Äîsignificant positive cash flows into stock funds and negative flows out of bond funds." But this isn't necessarily the smartest move. Instead he suggests investors look at their asset allocation and direct more money into bond mutual funds. "it is very common following significant gains in the equity markets for investors to question the benefits of rebalancing. Perhaps they think that ‚Äúit‚Äôs gonna be different this time.‚Äù While it might be, it is much more likely to be the ‚Äúsame as it ever was." The Only Way The Fed Can Be Prepared For A Financial Crisis (AllianceBernstein) Taper talk is back on the table, with some expecting the Fed to scale back its¬† $85 billion monthly asset purchase program as early as December. AllianceBernstein's U.S. economist, Joseph Carson, writes that as stocks are at all time highs and credit conditions are no longer tight, "an ‚Äúopportunistic normalization‚Äù of monetary policy when market conditions look appropriate will be the best way for the Fed to gradually change direction without jolting markets or jeopardizing economic gains." Carson thinks that the Fed's policy that is now intended to generate "substantial gains in employment and keep core inflation at 2% has created a "difficult predicament" for the Fed. "In our view, policymakers may eventually discover that these intermediate objectives‚Äîcurbing unemployment and maintaining relatively stable core inflation‚Äîwill not be compatible with the longer-term goal of normalizing monetary policy. In other words, policymakers should not be focused only on intermediate economic objectives; from a risk-management standpoint, we believe that they must start to plan ahead and think about where official rates and the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet should be in three to four years. This is the only way that the Fed will be in a position to respond forcefully and quickly to a financial crisis or economic downturn, should one emerge." HUGH HENDRY: I Can No Longer Say I Am Bearish (InvestmentWeek) "I can no longer say I am bearish," Eclectica Asset Management's Hugh Hendry told InvestmentWeek. "When markets become parabolic, the people who exist within them are trend followers, because the guys who are qualitative have got taken out." The market he said, "only makes sense through the prism of trends." More Advisory Practices Need To Implement Referral Programs (The Wall Street Journal) "There's a huge disconnect between what generates new business and what firms actually do to get that business into the door," writes Zack Shepard, of Cincinnati-based Matson Money in a new Wall Street Journal column. 52% of new clients come from referrals, but not enough advisory practices implement referral programs and strategies he writes. Advisors can ask for referrals by establishing a "coaching relationship" with their clients. Advisors can do this by asking their clients to rank their comfort with their finances at the start, and then ask them again after a few years. After their comfort level increases, "asking for a referral becomes as simple as asking them about who else in their life the client thinks may appreciate having the same financial peace of mind."
Paramount PicturesMy job requires reading a lot of financial news. It's one of my favorite parts. But it gives me a front-row seat to the downside of financial journalism: gibberish, nonsense, garbage, and drivel. And let me tell you, there's a lot of it. Here are a few stupid things I hear a lot. 1. "They don't have any debt except for a mortgage and student loans." OK. And I'm vegan except for bacon-wrapped steak. 2. "Earnings were positive before one-time charges." This is Wall Street's equivalent of, "Other than that Mrs. Lincoln, how was the play?" 3. "Earnings missed estimates." No. Earnings don't miss estimates; estimates miss earnings. No one ever says "the weather missed estimates." They blame the weatherman for getting it wrong. Finance is the only industry where people blame their poor forecasting skills on reality.¬† 4. "Earnings met expectations, but analysts were looking for a beat." If you're expecting earnings to beat expectations, you don't know what the word "expectations" means. 5. "It's a Ponzi scheme." The number of things called Ponzi schemes that are actually Ponzi schemes rounds to zero. It's become a synonym for "thing I disagree with."¬† 6. "The [thing not going perfectly] crisis." Boy who cried wolf, meet analyst who called crisis.¬† 7. "He predicted the market crash in 2008." He also predicted a crash in 2006, 2004, 2003, 2001, 1998, 1997, 1995, 1992, 1989, 1984, 1971... 8. "More buyers than sellers." This is the equivalent of saying someone has more mothers than fathers. There's one buyer and one seller for every trade. Every single one. 9. "Stocks suffer their biggest drop since September." You know September was only six weeks ago, right?¬† 10. "We're cautiously optimistic." You're also an oxymoron.¬† 11. [Guy on TV]: "It's time to [buy/sell] stocks." Who is this advice for? A 20-year-old with 60 years of investing in front of him, or a 82-year-old widow who needs money for a nursing home? Doesn't that make a difference? 12. "We're neutral on this stock." Stop it. You don't deserve a paycheck for that. 13. "There's minimal downside on this stock." Some lessons have to be learned the hard way. 14. "We're trying to maximize returns and minimize risks." Unlike everyone else, who are just¬†dying¬†to set their money ablaze. 15. "Shares fell after the company lowered guidance." Guys, they just proved their guidance can be wrong. Why are you taking this new one seriously?¬† 16. "Our bullish case is conservative." Then it's not a bullish case. It's a conservative case. Those words mean opposite things. 17. "We look where others don't." This is said by so many investors that it has to be untrue most of the time.¬† 18. "Is [X] the next black swan?" Nassim Taleb's blood pressure rises every time someone says this.¬†You can't predict black swans. That's what makes them dangerous. 19. "We're waiting for more certainty." Good call. Like in 1929, 1999 and 2007, when everyone knew exactly what the future looked like. Can't wait! 20. "The Dow is down 50 points as investors react to news of [X]." Stop it, you're just making stuff up. "Stocks are down and no one knows why" is the¬†only honest¬†headline in this category.¬† 21. "Investment guru [insert name] says stocks are [insert forecast]." Go to Morningstar.com. Look up that guru's track record against their benchmark. More often than not, their career performance lags an index fund. Stop calling them gurus. 22. "We're constructive on the market." I have no idea what that means. I don't think you do, either. 23. "[Noun] [verb] bubble." (That's a sarcastic observation from investor Eddy Elfenbein.)¬† 24. "Investors are fleeing the market." Every stock is owned by someone all the time.¬† 25. "We expect more volatility." There has never been a time when this was not the case. Let me guess, you also expect more winters?¬† 26. "This is a¬†strong¬†buy." What do I do with this? Click the mouse harder when placing the order in my brokerage account? 27. "He was tired of throwing his money away renting, so he bought a house." He knows a mortgage is renting money from a bank, right? 28. "This is a cyclical bull market in a secular bear." Vapid nonsense.¬†¬† 29. "Will Obamacare ruin the economy?" No. And get a grip.¬†
OpenNet InitiativeBack in April, agents of the Syrian Electronic Army took control of the Associated Press official Twitter account and punched out a single tweet. "Breaking: Two Explosions in the White House and Barack Obama was injured" The AP Corporate Communications account quickly tried to mitigate the damage, tweeting, "That is a bogus @AP tweet." The initial tweet cost the DOW 150 points, which it later recovered when the news was rectified. Nonetheless, it was a huge PR victory for SEA. Kevin Mandia, CEO of Mandiant ‚Äî the company that outed China's super-secret military hacking unit ‚Äî recently talked at a National Military Family Association event and explained exactly how the SEA breached the Associated Press twitter account. "I just wanted to share with you the details of the attack, to see the ingenuity behind these people," said Mandia, who got his start in Air Force signals intelligence. "[First] they sent a spearfishing email to approximately ten people at a media company," said Mandia, referring to the Associated Press. "Spearfishing is a fake email, you're purporting to be someone you're not and the content is a ruse to getting someone to do something, click on a link or open a document." The email looked like a newsbreak from the United Nations, telling the reporters to check out an article from the Washington Post. Mandia notes that the hackers "did their homework," and even used a name from a real person in the U.N. Inside the email was a hyperlink that ostensibly led to the WaPo article. Instead, the url led to a site mirroring the login for Outlook, the email platform AP reporters use. "To the unwitting victim, [they think] 'oh I got an email from the United Nations about something, let me click on this link,' and what they got was a new login back into their email, and their conclusion was, 'hey I just got kicked out of my email,' so they typed in their user ID and password and 'logged back in' to the email, but what they were really doing was giving the Syrian Electronic Army access to their email." "It took them less than ten minutes to get the information," Mandia said. The journalists that fell for it quickly filled out the field's like normal and clicked "login in," which then sent the info to the hackers. That's how the SEA got the access codes to the official Twitter, but, as Mandia points out, they could have done much worse. "The real problem with this isn't that they tweeted something, it's that they now know the contact list of all the Syrian rebels who are emailing western reporters," said Mandia. Mandia contends that the SEA is much more advanced than people think. "Is that a non-fancy attack? Well ... it worked, and it worked in less than ten minutes," said Mandia. As for the SEA's M-O being media attacks, he thinks they're capable of worse. "Now imagine if we had attacked Syria, I think they're rules of engagement would change," said Mandia.
REUTERS/Samsul SaidA security guard stands near an art work titled "Shark Bra" during the "Young Malaysian Artist New Objection" exhibition at a gallery in Kuala Lumpur, November 12, 2013Stocks closed at record highs. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Blackwater"WE WERE selling $1m a year in merchandise with the company logo on it," says Erik Prince with a mixture of nostalgia and defiance. Blackwater, the company in question, rose to worldwide prominence as an outsourced branch of the American army during the occupation of Iraq and Afghanistan.  It had plenty of admirers for the way it had pioneered a new branch of the defence industry, earning a total of around $2 billion from Uncle Sam for providing armed personnel to the Pentagon, the State Department and, secretly, the CIA.  But the firm was overwhelmed by its more numerous critics, who said it was an undisciplined, unaccountable bunch of mercenaries. In 2010 Mr Prince gave up the fight. He sold the firm, which he had founded in 1997 and which got its first big break by teaching police to handle school shootings after the 1999 Columbine massacre. It is smaller now and mostly does less controversial work such as guarding diplomats and providing training. Its new name, Academi, could scarcely sound less aggressive. Mr Prince has started talking, after a long silence, to promote his book, "Civilian Warriors", in which he mounts a defence of his firm as unyielding as a Blackwater contractor under enemy fire. Mr Prince says he never intended to build a new sort of defence firm. But he stumbled on a huge opportunity to fill gaps in military capacity cost-effectively. Blackwater provided security to government officials such as Paul Bremer, the head of the transitional authority after the invasion of Iraq, and after that, senior State Department employees in Iraq and Afghanistan. He says he got his entrepreneurial instinct from his father, who built a successful motor-industry supplier and taught him that the best way to win and keep a customer is always to say yes, then overdeliver--a formula that worked spectacularly well for Blackwater until the deadly nature of its overdelivery became so controversial. Now he is glad to be out of the industry he helped build. With the winding down of America's military campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan, it has become a "very crowded field; too many firms competing for a shrinking pie." But Blackwater's demise created space for two rivals: DynCorp International, a 60-year-old firm that diversified into military security, and Triple Canopy, founded in 2003 with a similar business model to Blackwater's. Groups such as Human Rights First campaign against governments' use of private military contractors, and Barack Obama attacked Blackwater in his first presidential campaign. George Bush responded by modestly tightening the rules on its deployment. But there has been no change of course since Mr Obama took office. "There is no going back, we just need to figure out the new rules for when private military firms should be used and when they should not," says Sean McFate, an academic at Georgetown University who previously worked for DynCorp. Post-Blackwater, two trends have dominated the new industry, says Mr McFate: globalisation and indigenisation. On the supply side, there are a growing number of private military firms, and not all of the new ones were formed by former special forces from Western powers, such as Aegis and Blue Mountain, two British firms. Warlords in places such as Afghanistan and Somalia are creating contracting firms that they staff with local talent. Their embattled national governments are seeing the merits in contracting out security. So America is no longer the only big buyer of private force, notes Mr McFate. One thing that would greatly improve the industry's prospects is if the United Nations began using private contractors for peacekeeping missions, as it is said to be considering. Today, such missions are staffed by soldiers from poorer countries, who are often badly trained. Mr Prince thinks that private contracting would make the UN more effective, but he has no intention of going after that business. For him, the new promised land is Africa, where he is investing in firms providing services to the oil and gas industry, in places where he thinks his expertise in providing logistics and security can give him a competitive edge. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Elon Musk via TwitterElon Musk has three companies: Tesla, SpaceX, and SolarCity. He's a billionaire but still makes himself approachable. In fact, the soft-spoken CEO told Business Insider's Henry Blodget that his "core competency is responding to emails." Last week,†Musk spoke at Business Insider's annual Ignition conference. The conference draws a lot of star power in its speaker line-up, from TV personality Dr. Oz to billionaire Mavericks owner Mark Cuban to Russell Simmons. Musk arrived alone. No PR person. No employees. No posse. Just himself. (For comparison, another speaker arrived with about ten other people.) He also arrived a few minutes early and happily chatted with Business Insider's giddy editors. Elon Musk was the closing keynote the second day of the conference. As his hour-long interview wrapped up, the audience began to line up, blocking him from getting off the stage. A lot of people would have been frustrated and bolted, or answered one question then dashed. But Musk let the crowd surround him. He stayed an extra 45 minutes to answer their questions. He even graciously accepted a piece of fan mail written by one attendee's son.† Here's how big a crowd Musk can draw. Thousands of people filled all chair, floor and standing space at Dublin's 10,000-person Web Summit just to hear Musk speak a few weeks ago: Alyson Shontell/Business InsiderDublin's Web Summit was packed with 10,000 attendees who sat on the ground to watch Elon Musk speak.Here's a photo of Musk staying for almost an entire hour to answer questions after Ignition. Business Insider
Flickr/jyeskoPrivate equity and investment firms in recent years have bought up cheap real estate in markets hit hardest by the housing bust. The goal here isn't to "house flip," but to rent out homes and take in steady income. The upshot, some argue, is that real buyers are squeezed out of the market by the big dogs. Perennially fascinated by the goings-on in Manhattan's "hip" sidekick Brooklyn, the New York Times has a story about how firms are doing this in the borough. And it means that normal people, including the Brooklyn hipsters the Times so loves to document, are getting pushed out of home ownership. ‚ÄúI‚Äôd say by the spring, maybe 70% of the sales we were seeing were to hedge funds, investors and others taking advantage of what was happening in Brooklyn,‚Äù one real estate broker told the Times. ‚ÄúOnly about 30 percent were actual end users or first-time buyers.‚Äù From the Times: While his fund has sold a few properties already, Mr. Dixon says the general idea is to hold onto the properties, deriving steady income from rents. Mr. Dixon says that in the early years, as the fund invests in homes, renovates them and rents them, he expects returns could average about 5 percent each year. But as property values and rents increase, he estimates those returns could climb to 12 to 18 percent annually.¬† Not bad! While the development in Brooklyn's hotter areas like Williamsburg has been long chronicled, now hedge funds are buying up "dilapidated brownstones" farther out in the borough. Read the full report at the New York Times ¬ª
Reuters/ Fred Prouser The financial media world was stunned this week when Drudge Report broke the news†that Maria Bartiromo would be leaving CNBC for FOX Business Network. † Bartiromo, affectionately known as the "Money Honey," has been a fixture at CNBC for two decades. She was one of the network's earliest and biggest stars, and she celebrated her 20-year anniversary there just last month. A Brooklyn native, Bartiromo joined CNBC in 1993. A couple of years later, she made history as the first journalist to report live from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. †Roger Ailes, who is currently FOX News Channel's president, was the one who got Bartiromo on air back then when he was working for CNBC.† The news of Bartiromo's departure got people talking.†Why would one of CNBC's biggest stars quit the network? And why would CNBC let her leave? † Yes, CNBC's ratings have been low of late, but they're still well above FOX Business Network's ratings. CNBC still remains the No. 1 business news channel. † According to a source familiar with Bartiromo's thinking, her decision came down to three factors: FOX's overtures were also made more attractive and persuasive by the personal involvement of FOX boss Roger Ailes. Ailes persuaded Bartiromo that he would be personally committed to helping her further develop her career, support that Bartiromo did not feel she would have at CNBC and NBC. Ailes also knew the number he had to hit to make Bartiromo switch. The New York Post's Claire Atkinson, who cites unnamed sources, reports that Bartiromo's FOX contract is said to be worth between $5 million and $6 million per year. It was believed that Bartiromo raked in around $4 million at CNBC. † Another big enticement for Bartiromo was the promise of the live Sunday morning show on FOX News Channel. NBC wasn't willing to offer her that. One CNBCer, who will remain anonymous, noted that it was pretty obvious that there weren't many opportunities left for her there in terms of the NBC network. "There just didn't seem to be a lot left here for her to do. She clearly wasn't on the network radar screen, so if she wanted to grow her options were limited at NBC. Kind of reminds me of the Erin Burnett situation." FOX also seems to be an obvious fit for Bartiromo politically. Over the last year, she has been more and more vocal on her show expressing her own viewpoints in her own opinion segment. † Back in 2012, CNBC hired a producer named Gary†Schreier, who was Neil Cavuto's Executive Producer FOX Business, to be the Executive Producer of Bartiromo's "Closing Bell."†One insider said that he thought Schreier was brought on to make Bartiromo happy. † "The sense was that they brought him in to kind of like make Maria happy that he was a guy that...suits her politics. Her politics are more aligned with FOX." † Schreier was the one who helped Bartiromo start her "Maria's Observations" segment where she would share her views at the close of each show. WATCH: Lou Dobbs Told Maria Bartiromo That Going To CNBC Would Be The Biggest Mistake Of Her Life"He was brought over to help continue and cultivate and grow her as an anchor and try to draw out more of her personality and viewpoint," another CNBCer said.† The timing of the news of Bartiromo's departure caught CNBC by surprise. Ever since Bartiromo passed on CNBC's final offer and informed the network that she was leaving, the plan had been to announce the news on Thursday, November 21st, the day before Bartiromo's final day on the air, one source says. The Drudge leak caught CNBC by surprise. CNBC may also have to make some changes in the wake of Bartiromo's departure. One of Bartiromo's assets has always been her ability to book big-name guests. †CNBC has long had a policy in which guests have to appear "first on CNBC" before they appear on other networks, and the concern is that Bartiromo's guest-booking power may be able to upend that. "The real stiff CNBC guest policyóThis is going to turn that on its head. She works her ass off and gets great guests," a CNBC insider told us. "I know for a fact that she does a lot of hands on booking herself and keeps in touch with big folks like [Larry] Fink [Prince] Al-Waleed...What does CNBC do then? Are they forced to take that person second that's been with her the whole time. You go 'come on us first or you don't come on at all?' Are they going to say that to the biggies?" † Not everyone thinks this will have a big impact, though.† "I think the most immediate impact is going to be in booking, but I have a feeling her prowess was always a little overrated in that department. I don't think anybody's panicking because we might get a few less Meredith Whitney interviews," another CNBCer said. Even those who don't think Bartiromo's departure will have much impact on CNBC have huge respect for her work ethic. AP Images"She is a bulldog. She just works really, really hard. She's an impressive person. She's just driven. She's smart. She's energetic...She fiercely guards her territory...She's tough in a good way... She's just a hard working, driven person and she's competitive. I think that's going to be interesting to see what they're able to do with that," one source who has worked with her said. †† So this brings us back to the question of why CNBC is letting her go? † CNBC clearly has the money, so why not match it? † The story some CNBC executives are telling is that Bartiromo is a member of an old-school TV generation and that CNBC now wants to invest in younger talent who are comfortable working in digital as well as broadcast media ó rising stars like Kelly Evans, for example, who has been dubbed†the "next Money Honey."† Sources say that Bartiromo's deal with FOX Business hasn't been signed, and that some minor details still need to be worked out. (The location of her Sunday show, for example, as well as who she will bring with her from CNBC.) Bartiromo's contract with CNBC expires on Sunday, November 24, and she is actually not allowed to sign a new contract before then. It's also unclear when Bartiromo will debut on FOX Business. Contractually, she is required to wait 60 days past the end of her CNBC contract, but it's possible that this restriction will be waived. In any event, we won't likely see her on FOX until January.†
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriEclectica Asset Management's Chief Investment Officer and Founding Partner Hugh Hendry gestures as he speaks during The Economist's Buttonwood Gathering in New York October 25, 2012. Hugh Hendry of Eclectica is one of the more articulate and closely followed hedge fund managers in the world today. Until today, he was also one of the more bearish managers too. "I can no longer say I am bearish," said Hendry today according to InvestmentWeek. "When markets become parabolic, the people who exist within them are trend followers, because the guys who are qualitative have got taken out." Speaking at the Harrington Cooper conference, Hendry argued that an ongoing currency war between the U.S. and China will continue to force the Federal Reserve to keep monetary policy loose and easy. "I may be providing a public utility here, as the last bear to capitulate," he said. "You are well within your rights to say ësell'. The S&amp;P 500 is up 30% over the past year: I wish I had thought this last year." Hendry sounded pretty crestfallen. Here's more from InvestmentWeek: "I have been prepared to underperform for the fun of being proved right when markets crash. But that could be in three-and-a-half-years' time." "I cannot look at myself in the mirror; everything I have believed in I have had to reject. This environment only makes sense through the prism of trends." As Hendry said, he is not the first bear to "warn" that stocks are likely to go much higher from here. Here's a round up of some recent quotes we've heard from the long-time bears: John Hussman: "...we should neither expect, rely or be shocked by a further blowoff..." Jeremy Grantham, GMO: "My personal guess is that the U.S. market, especially the non-blue chips, will work its way higher, perhaps by 20% to 30% in the next year or, more likely, two years..." Richard Russell: "I continue to think that this bull market will end in an upside explosion." Bob Janjuah, Nomura: "I still see end Q4 2013, through to end Q1 2014, as the window in which we see a significant risk-on top before giving way, over the last three quarters of 2014 and through 2015, to what could be a 25% to 50% sell-off in global stock markets." Is there no one else?
BlockChainSomeone just transacted $148 million worth of Bitcoin. That's about 195,000 Bitcoins. We say transacted because there is no way of knowing whether any money actually changed hands. The Bitcoins were transferred from several Blockchain "addresses" to another single address. Addresses are basically routing numbers, and an¬†individual's Bitcoin wallet can contain multiple addresses. So barring some kind of deal that would almost certainly be required to be reported to some sort of third party, it's likely to have just been an individual consolidating accounts.¬† You can see more discussion of this on reddit and ycombinator. But it does show that someone out there owns 195,000 Bitcoins, which are increasingly becoming more valuable. (Via Hacker News)
REUTERS/Mike BlakeMIAMI (Reuters) - A Powerball ticket worth $16 million became worthless on Friday after a six-month deadline for the winner to claim the prize money expired, Florida lottery authorities said. "It's only happened a few other times, so this is really, really unusual," said Florida Lottery spokeswoman Amy Bisceglia. "It could have been anything, from somebody forgetting about it in the laundry, or just throwing it away. We have no idea what happened," Bisceglia said, when asked how the ticket holder could not have claimed the fortune. The ticket became worthless when a 180-day deadline to claim the jackpot expired at 11:59 p.m. EST on Thursday (0459 GMT Friday), Bisceglia said. It was the largest unclaimed jackpot in Florida since 2003, when a $53.7 million jackpot expired. The winning numbers were 2, 6, 19, 21, 27 and a Powerball number of 25. The winning ticket was purchased in May at the Carollwood Market, a convenience store in Tampa. (Reporting by Tom Brown; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)
Dan GreenhausOn Thursday night, Dan Greenhaus¬†of BTIG threw¬†this chart into his nightly email. It has been making the rounds among traders and analysts lately. Correlation does not equal causation, of course. And Greenhaus dismisses the chart, which seemingly implies we're on track for a harrowing 1929-esque market crash. "Without getting too personal, 'chart overlaying' is lazy and this is no less so," he said. "But it does remind us that as much as everyone thinks everyone else is 'all bulled up,' these views still persist and have shown no indication they are going away any time soon." It appears that this chart originated from a Nov. 21 note published by Miller Tabak's Andrew Wilkinson. Unfortunately, the folks circulating it have completely missed Wilkinson's point, which is basically right in line with Greenhaus'. "It is true that the two time series carry remarkable similarity," wrote Wilkinson his note. "So we dug deeper to measure the relative movement between the moves." Wilkinson normalized the chart, meaning he compared the actual percentage moves of the index during the two periods. Here's Wilkinson: By normalizing the move to the respective start dates we can create a rather different and more favorable picture for the current run. The stock market ran up 80% prior to the crash of 1929 before eroding two years‚Äô worth of gains. Looking at the relative position for today‚Äôs rally leaves the S&amp;P 500 index higher by only 27% after a comparable period of its recent rally. The comparison to the late ‚Äò20‚Äôs experience suddenly loses its magic in this light and helps roll back accusations that the market is running on vapors instilled by the Fed and that valuations are frothy. As you can see in Wilkinson's normalized chart (which we recreated below), today's rally is much more tame than the depression-era rally. Yes, chart overlay can still be lazy, but Wilkinson certainly wasn't being lazy. Business Insider
REUTERS/Jeff ZelevanskyCarl IcahnBillionaire investor Carl Icahn has fired more shots at his long-time rival Bill Ackman.† Here's what Uncle Carl told Bloomberg TV's Trish Regan earlier today: † "I fail to understand how Bill Ackman, whom I havenít spoken to for years, nor do I intend to speak to, would know what I am or am not committed to. I continue to believe Herbalife has a great future, and in my opinion many of the things Ackman says about it are simply the rantings of a sore loserÖInterestingly there is something that Ackman and I have in common. Ackman complained at an Oxford conference that every time I went on TV and mentioned Herbalife, the stock went up a few points. Well, that's also true of him." Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, was on Bloomberg TV earlier with Stephanie Ruhle talking about his Herbalife short. †He has lost about $500 million on his short so far.† Herbalife's stock rose†more than 5%†after Ackman gave another take-down presentation at the Robin Hood Investors Conference and made comments on air.† Icahn owns a massive long position in Herbalife. †During the last year, he has publicly called Ackman a "crybaby in the school yard" and said that he would be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes."

High unemployment continues to the dominant economic theme around the world. And globally, young people have it worse than the average. "We highlight that youth unemployment rates are in general much higher than total unemployment rates, despite the increases in the numbers of skilled and educated youth with increased years of schooling," said Credit Suisse economist Amlan Roy in a recent note to clients. "Youth unemployment rates were more than double total unemployment rates in most selected countries and more than triple the total unemployment rate in Italy. This has implications for lifetime income, lifetime savings, as well as related social implications at the aggregate level." Credit Suisse
Snapchat/Google PlayThe founders of a red-hot messaging company called Snapchat are suing each other over ownership of the company. One of the co-founders, Reggie Brown, says two of his former frat brothers at Stanford, Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy, effectively stole his idea and then swindled him out of a huge stake in the company. Spiegel and Murphy haven't offered any alternative story, other than dismissing Brown's claim with the usual anodyne legalese. The case has surprising similarities to the lawsuits surrounding the origins of another massive social network founded in a dorm room, Facebook. And it will almost certainly end in the same way: With a humongous settlement in which Snapchat pays Brown tens or hundreds of millions of dollars to go away. Based on the evidence that has come to light so far, by the way, that's exactly how it†should†end. The evidence and undisputed facts in the Snapchat case so far suggest that, even if Brown is lying about a verbal agreement in which he and his co-founders agreed to split Snapchat's equity in a certain way (50/50 before Murphy was added to the team, and 1/3rd afterwards), Brown certainly deserves†something†for his early role. Even Spiegel, Snapchat's CEO, agrees on that! Videos of†depositions obtained by Business Insider's Alyson Shontell show Spiegel saying that Brown deserves something. And the videos also show that several other key details are not in dispute: Given that these facts are undisputed, there is no question that Brown deserves†something†for his contributions to the company. To suggest otherwise would be grossly unfair. (And the fact that Spiegel and Murphy seem to be resisting giving Brown something makes them look selfish and greedy.) The disappearing-pictures app was Brown's idea, after all, and he helped build it. Given that the app grew from a frat-house partnership among three college friends, it is unreasonable to think that Brown, Spiegel, and Murphy should have instantly lawyered up and incorporated before starting work and that, because they didn't, whatever Spiegel recalls about a verbal agreement ó nothing, apparently, according to Spiegel's testimony ó should now be law. (If Spiegel really thought it was fair to take a friend's idea and work with him for three months to make it a reality and then give the friend†nothing†for that, then Spiegel is the one who should have lawyered up and spelled that out. It's hard to imagine that any neutral observer would have considered that fair.) Brown says that, before the frat brothers started building the app, they agreed to split the company's equity among them. Spiegel testified that he doesn't recall that conversation. Spiegel also, however, testified that he believes that Brown "may deserve something." So the only question is... how much does Brown deserve? Brown†wants†a third of the company ó because that's what he says he, Spiegel, and Murphy agreed to. Unless some evidence surfaces that makes crystal clear that that's what the three agreed to, it is highly unlikely that Brown will get a third of the orginal company. (This third of the original company has since been significantly diluted by several financing rounds, so it is absurd to think that Brown deserves a third of the†current†company.) Under normal startup circumstances, moreover, Brown wouldn't likely get a third of the company, even if that's what the founders agreed to. Why not? Because in well-organized startups, founders generally vest into their stakes over a period of years (3-4.) This vesting helps avoid exactly the problem that Snapchat ran into: Founders starting a company together and then discovering that they hate each other and can't work together. In those cases, it would be unfair to the co-founders who stay at the company and devote their lives to building it to have their equity (compensation) shared equally with a co-founder who left and then contributed nothing. If a co-founder leaves a company before his or her vesting is complete, there is normally some sort of exit agreement, in which the departing co-founder gets a portion of his or her full stake as a parting gift. So let's play out the Snapchat scenario... Let's pretend that the three frat brothers, Spiegel, Murphy, and Brown, had drawn up the paperwork and split Snapchat's equity equally or close to equally†before†they started building the app. (This would have been a perfectly reasonable equity split. The idea for the app was Brown's. He wanted to work with Spiegel and Murphy to build it. Unless Spiegel and Murphy wanted to just steal Brown's idea, they would have had to have given Brown something. And Spiegel and Murphy's business and coding experience was not so immense at that point that Brown would have had to settle for a tiny stake. On the contrary...) Let's say that, if Snapchat had been well-organized, Brown would have gotten between 20% and 33% of the original equity.† And let's say that this ownership stake would have vested over 4 years. Brown worked at Snapchat for about 4 months before getting tossed. In those four months, he would have vested into 1/4 of his stake -- or 1/12th of the overall stake. Once Spiegel and Murphy decided to toss Brown, they would presumably have offered him an exit deal -- perhaps one-year's worth of his vesting. And given that Brown had only worked for three months, the app was not yet guaranteed of success, and he was getting a year's worth of equity, Brown would probably have accepted this. So Brown might have left Snapchat with 1/4 of his 20%-33% original stake. †This would have amounted to a range of 5%-8% of the original equity. † Then, over the next couple of years, this stake would have been diluted down by the various Snapchat financings. Insiders know the exact percentage by which the founders' original stakes have been diluted down, but for the sake of this discussion, we'll just estimate it. Let's assume that the Shapchat founders' stakes have been diluted by a third since the original split. A 5%-8% stake diluted by 1/3rd becomes †a 3%-5% stake. So that's one crack at how much of Snapchat's current equity Reggie Brown deserves: 3%-5%. Now that Snapchat is worth billions, that's a whole lot of money ($90-$150 million, if we assume the common stock is worth $3 billion). Unless Murphy and Spiegel have been sitting on evidence that Brown is completely full of it, however, this stake also feels basically fair. So Snapchat should stop wasting time on this lawsuit, give Brown his settlement, and move on. SEE ALSO:†Leaked Videos Suggest Ousted Snapchat Co-Founder Deserves A Whole Lot Of Money
Some people get ahead by being smarter, more analytical, or more strategic than everyone around them. But many of the most successful people combine some or all of those traits with a signature doggedness ‚Äî wanting success more than anyone else. That intense focus on a singular goal comes across with every interaction, and frequently, when they interact with the public. We've picked out some of the best examples of people who combine serious intensity with an impressive work ethic and massive ambition.¬† Anna Wintour Wintour, U.S. Vogue's editor-in-chief and¬†Cond√© Nast's artistic director, is known for her reportedly demanding and aloof personal style. She was the apparent inspiration for the terrifying boss in "The Devil Wears Prada," a book written by her former personal assistant later made into a movie. Despite a reputation for¬†being closed off and distant, her occasional outbursts are intense enough to have earned her the nickname "Nuclear Wintour." But it's hard to argue that her perfectionism and attention to detail haven't played a large role in her continued success in an industry where many other magazines and editors have failed.¬† Lucas Jackson/Reuters Larry Ellison The Oracle CEO's hyper-competitiveness and intensity is constantly on display, from his involvement in the America's Cup yacht¬†race to his near constant spats with business rivals. Examples of his no-holds-barred form of capitalism include saying that SAP executives were on drugs, hiring investigators to comb through Microsoft's trash, and calling HP's decision to fire Mark Hurd "the best idea since the¬†Apple¬†board fired Steve Jobs." Reuters/Kimimasa Mayama¬† Kobe Bryant In the NBA and beyond, Bryant's work ethic is absolutely legendary. In high school, Bryant would get to practice at 5 a.m. and leave at 7 p.m. in the evening, and play teammates in one-on-one games to 100 points. He trains four hours a day during the NBA season, even more in the offseason, and puts in incredibly intense sessions even on game days. Harry How/GettyImages Steve Ballmer Though the longtime Microsoft CEO¬†is on his way out after Microsoft missed some very big trends in the tech world, there's no doubting his passion. From rumors he flung a chair after hearing an employee was departing for Google, to his intense and emotional speeches to Microsoft employees, you never doubt that he cares very deeply about the company. Microsoft Michael O'Leary The list of the Irish discount airline RyanAir¬†CEO's antics is too long to lay out in full, but it includes cursing out journalists at extensive length and holding press conferences to criticize European policies he dislikes. The airline became successful by massively undercutting others on cost, and continues to succeed by taking any possible path to cutting costs short of raising fares. He also has a penchant for elaborate costumes, as this photo of him as a Viking announcing new flights from Stockholm illustrates. REUTERS/Scanpix ScanpixSergio Marchionne Running two giant automakers headquartered on different continents and turning around Chrysler takes an intense personality and fierce work ethic. One executive once told the FT that the Fiat/Chrysler CEO¬†"invented an eighth day and we work it." He's known for spending Italian holidays working in America, and American holidays working in Italy. Reuters/Paolo Bona Tadashi Yanai The intense and pragmatic Fast Retailing CEO and founder has created a company in Uniqlo that rigorously tracks everything, from folding technique to how credit cards are returned to customers. Being the richest man in Japan isn't enough. Yanai reportedly wants to beat out Inditex, the world's largest fashion retailer. He intends to have $50 billion in yearly revenue by 2020, which would require massive growth. Yanai originally planned to retire next year, as he's 63, but no one at his company has managed to "meet his expectations" as a successor. Reuters/Issei Kato Daniel Day-Lewis Already a three-time Best Actor Oscar winner for his intensity on screen, the actor is the same way off of it. He immerses himself in roles completely, to the point where it can unnerve the cast and crew of movies or the people who encounter him. He spoke in the accent of his character from "In The Name Of The Father" for six months after filming ended, and insisted on staying in a wheelchair throughout production of "My Left Foot." Sony / Columbia Pictures screencap¬† Maria Das Gracas Silva Foster Foster rose to CEO of the Brazilian oil giant Petrobras¬†after spending her whole career there, starting out as just an engineering intern. That might not be her most impressive achievement. She was also born in one of Rio de Janeiro's most dangerous slums and collected scrap metal to pay for her school books. She has a reputation for intensity, straight talk, and putting male colleagues in their place, giving her the nickname¬†Caveirao, slang for armored police cars.¬†According to the FT:¬† "'I was in the middle of an argument with someone and they were telling me that some place was not fit for a woman to go,' she said. She blurted out the details of her own tough upbringing in response, she says ‚Äî 'I didn‚Äôt have the least bit of patience to listen to that.'" Reuters/Nacho Doces Masayoshi Son Son has a reputation for making big bets, like his recent purchase of Sprint. Past wins include big investments in Alibaba and Yahoo Japan. "He is a gambler, and there's no question he's looking for world domination," DCM co-founder David Chao once told Bloomberg.¬† He's regaining his fortune again after SoftBank grew massively during the dotcom bubble and crashed and burned when it popped. Son personally lost $70 billion, maybe the largest fortune ever lost by a single person. But he's roaring back. AP Martin Sorrell Sorrell may once again become the biggest ad CEO in the world if a rumored buyout of Interpublic Group goes through. He's a notorious workaholic. A client once tested him by sending a blank text extremely early in the morning. Sorrell responded in seconds. And despite the massive size of his business, he still gets intensely involved with clients and pitches for new business. His high salary has been controversial at times, but Sorrell's fought back vigorously, arguing that he's worth every penny of what he's earned.¬† REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Marissa Mayer The Yahoo CEO and¬†former Google executive is a renowned workaholic, routinely putting in 100-hour weeks to the point where she needs a one-week vacation every four months just to catch up on sleep and recharge. Meeting with her can be extremely intimidating, as she tends to be intensely business focused, rattling off rapid and specific questions and obsessing over details others would consider minor.¬† AP¬† Rahm Emmanuel You don't get a nickname like "Rahmbo" without earning it. The former White House chief of staff once sent a dead fish in the mail to a pollster who angered him, and leapt on to a table during a dinner and¬†started stabbing it with a knife while shouting the names of people who had betrayed his then-boss Bill Clinton. Kevin Lamarque/Reuters¬† Roy Halladay Though no longer at his dominant best, the two-time Cy Young award-winning pitcher has what might be the most legendary work ethic in the sport. Halladay wakes up at 4 a.m. in the morning to start working out during spring training, and does his most intense workouts on the day after he starts a game.¬† Before and during each start, Halladay goes into complete isolation¬†and won't speak to anybody except for the pitching coach and the manager. Even a hello or wave from a teammate won't get a response. Rob Carr/Getty Images Jeff Bezos The Amazon CEO's intense management style has undoubtedly been successful, but it can be tough on those underneath him.¬†As described Brad Stone's new book on the company, "The Everything Store": A colleague failing to meet Bezos‚Äôs exacting standards will set off a nutter. If an employee does not have the right answers or tries to bluff, or takes credit for someone else‚Äôs work, or exhibits a whiff of internal politics, uncertainty, or frailty in the heat of battle ‚Äî a blood vessel in Bezos‚Äôs forehead bulges and his filter falls away. He‚Äôs capable of hyperbole and harshness in these moments and over the years has delivered some devastating rebukes. Bezos' sarcastic takedowns¬†reportedly include:¬†‚ÄúAre you lazy or just incompetent?‚Äù and¬†‚ÄúI‚Äôm sorry, did I take my stupid pills today?‚Äù AP
It's closed to the media. † He's speaking with Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle right now.† Shares of Herbalife are moving higher today. They were last trading up about 6.8%. Ackman told Bloomberg that Pershing Square has had $400 to $500 million in mark-to-market losses on his Herbalife short so far. † Herbalife is a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutritional supplements and weightloss shakes.† Late last year, Ackman publicly declared that he's shorting $1 billion worth of the stock with a price target of zero. †He believes that the company is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income people, particularly from the Hispanic population.† Ackman said that he will take his Herbalife short to "the end of the earth." A number of hedge fund managers, most notably his arch-nemesis Carl Icahn, have gone long the stock. George Soros, Richard Perry and Stan Druckenmiller also have long positions. †Daniel Loeb was long the company earlier this year, but exited for a $50 million profit. The CEO of Post Holdings Bill Stiritz is the company's biggest individual shareholder.† Ackman told Ruhle that he doesn't know of any other significant investor who is short Herbalife.† Yahoo! Finance 
APComcast is exploring the possibility of merging with Time Warner Cable, CNBC reports. While there aren't any active discussions, Comcast is talking with the FCC about any potential anti-trust issues if the two companies were to merge.¬†CNBC also reports that Time Warner Cable would like Comcast to buy it if it did end up selling.
Flickr/Idhren U.S. Job Openings rose to 3.91 million in September, beating economist expectations of 3.85 million. August's figure was revised down from 3.88 million to 3.84 million. There were 4.6 million hires in September, basically unchanged from August. Also unchanged was "seperations" (layoffs, quits, and discharges), at 4.4 million. The quit rate for September was 1.7% of total nonfarm, 2% for private, and 0.5% for government, essentially unchanged. Quits are a positive indicator, since people are more likely to leave their job when they are confident in the labor market. The JOLTS report, as its known, is the wrongfully neglected sibling of the BLS' monthly jobs report, but it is nonetheless a crucial labor market indicator. In fact, soon-to-be Fed chair Janet Yellen has cited the report before as one she keeps a keen eye on. The report offers data on job openings, hires, quits, and layoffs, giving us a fuller picture of the status of the labor market.
Click for sound. † Sharon Meers, author of "Getting To 50/50: How Working Parents Can Have It All," tells us how women, coming back to work after maternity leave, should handle any concerns their bosses may have about their work-life balance. Produced by Justin Gmoser
simaje via Compfight ccFor decades now, the real purchasing power of social security benefits has been falling. In real terms, the benefits seniors receive are considerably less than what their parents received a few decades ago. It's time we do something about it. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) use a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) called CPI-W each year to calculate how much social security benefits should grow to keep up with inflation. Their purchasing power would quickly degrade rapidly if such an adjustment were not made. Here's the problem: CPI-W underestimates how much the cost-of-living for seniors increases each year. CPI-W is meant to represent the price change for all wage earners. It is calculated by weighing different expenditure categories from the BLS's original CPI data. It is approximately 39.2% housing, 18.7% transportation, 15.7% food and beverage, etc. These weights are supposed to represent the average "basket of goods" that wage earners consume. The BLS calculates the annual cost increase for each category and then weighs them appropriately to determine the final CPI-W statistic. The problem is that these weights are based on the average "basket of goods" for wage earners, not for seniors. To fix that, the BLS created a new index called CPI-E (E stands for elderly) that estimates the average "basket of goods" that seniors consume. Here's how they compare (CPI-U is for urban consumers): BLS As you can see, seniors consume much more health care and housing than normal wage earners.†Those just happen to be two areas in which prices have grown much faster than the overall economy. That means that CPI-W understates the actual annual increase in the cost-of-living for seniors. Yet, social security benefits are still calculated using CPI-W. How bad is this? The BLS found that from December 1982 through December 2007, the average COLA under CPI-W was 3.0% per year while it was 3.3% under CPI-E. That means any senior that started collecting social security at the end of 1982 and continued to do so through 2007 saw the purchasing power of their benefits decrease by more than 7.0%. Another way to put this: If the BLS had used CPI-E initially instead of CPI-W, that senior's benefits would have been almost 16% higher by the end of 2007. That's a big difference. For decades now, real social security benefits have been slowly declining. Seniors are being systematically screwed over by a faulty COLA calculation. Fortunately, increasing Social Security benefits has gained greater traction among Democrats recently with Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) introducing legislation to raise benefits, Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) giving a fiery speech about it this week and Paul Krugman penning an op-ed today. But they are still mis-framing the debate. Here's what Warren said in her floor speech this week: The Bureau of Labor Statistics has developed a measure of the†impact of inflation on seniors. Itís called the CPI-E, and, if we adopted it today, it would generally increase benefits for our retirees ó not cut them.† It's great (and not surprising) that Warren is knowledgeable about CPI-E, but saying that it would increase benefits will simply draw ire from the right. Deficit scolds will scoff at the idea. Instead, she needs to explain how seniors have been getting screwed for years. The current system is unfair and actually reduces their earnings . This isn't about raising or cutting benefits. It's about correcting a gross injustice that has built upon itself year after year for decades.†That's a message that would resonate with seniors. It's one thing to convince them that their benefits should be greater when they are concerned about the national debt. It's another thing to tell them that their real benefits have actually been decreasing. That's the message that Harkin, Warren and Krugman should all be delivering.
REUTERS/Miro Kuzmanovic There's something strange going on in Switzerland. This Sunday, Swiss voters will vote on the 1:12 Initiative, a plan to limit the monthly pay of Swiss companies' top executives to the yearly pay of their lowest paid employees, an annual ratio of one to twelve. The people behind that idea hope both to curb enormous executive salaries and to raise the standards of living for the poor. Then there's another, even more radical idea ‚Äî a plan to give everyone a minimum basic income of 2,500 francs ($2,800) a month. To get this money, all you would have to do is be an adult citizen ‚Äî and you could get this money even if you had a job. A vote on this idea is likely to be held in early 2016. These ideas might sound crazy, but they're real possibilities. In fact, Switzerland has been debating a lot of ideas like this over the past year ‚Äî in March, the country approved a plan that would give shareholders an annual ballot on managers‚Äô pay (the plan was called an "initiative against 'fat cats'"), and next year the country will vote on a plan to impose a minimum wage of 4,000 Swiss francs ($4,300) a month. What's most strange about this radical egalitarianism is that Switzerland has long held a reputation as a kind of capitalist paradise, with secretive banks, low taxes, and lots of gold. To understand this shift, you have to understand the idiosyncrasy of Switzerland's political culture and political system. The government is based around a federal structure (there are 26 cantons, each of which is technically a fully sovereign state), with a remarkable system of (semi) direct democracy.¬†One key part of this system is the federal popular initiative. Citizens can propose a change to the Swiss Federal Constitution, and if 100,000 people sign it, a referendum must be held. If a double majority of citizens and representatives of the cantons agree to it, it becomes law. You can see some of the proposals on this website ‚Äî "Do not abuse our pension!" reads one, while another hopes to protect the "wolf, bear, and lynx" (both failed). Such a system relies on a remarkable ability to reach a consensus ‚Äî even if they don't like an initiative that passes, most Swiss will shut up and live with it. Clive H. Church, a professor from the Centre for Swiss Politics at the University of Kent, told Business Insider that Swiss political culture means that citizens are "willing to accept the people‚Äôs decision even if it goes against [their own]"; politicians can be counted on not to resign or protest if the vote doesn't go their way; and ‚Äî perhaps most incredibly ‚Äî Swiss citizens will happily vote many times a year. Church says that historically the Swiss left has used the initiatives to counteract a long-standing electoral weakness, adding that there has always been a "small but vociferous left wing in Swiss politics." "The popular initiative, as the Swiss direct democratic instrument per se, has ever been an approach for minorities, working class etc. to bring up their issues,"¬†Claudio Kuster, one of the co-authors of the initiative against "fat cats" says. "During the last century there have been many initiatives, trying to force fiscal equality, to introduce and extend the pension system." But what exactly is behind this recent cluster of initiatives? Daniel Straub, one of the people behind the minimum basic income initiative, said it simply came down to rising social inequality, and others seem to agree. "In the past in Switzerland, it was unusual that someone showed off their wealth,"¬†David Roth, the leader of the youth wing of Swiss party the Social Democrats, and one of the architects of the 1:12 Initiative, says. "They had some modesty in Switzerland 30 years ago. Thirty years ago, there was a relation between the highest and the lowest salary ‚Äî a relation of 1:6." For decades, Roth argues, as production rose in Switzerland, normal pay and executive pay rose in proportion, and that only changed 10-15 years ago. "Don‚Äôt forget that Daniel Vasella, then CEO and chairman of the board of Novartis, had¬† received (rather: grabbed by himself) up to 50 million USD some years ago," Kuster says. "A few years before, he started at¬† just one million. That growth was not explainable. And still isn‚Äôt." When I asked Thomas Milic, a lecturer at the University of Zurich whether the financial crisis of 2008 had played a role in people's understanding of economic inequality, he explained that the crisis hadn't really been a crisis for the Swiss. "Surprisingly, Switzerland has managed to emerge strengthened from [2008]," Milic says. "The jobless rate is low, extremely low if you compare it to the European Union. Average income is high. Thus, there is actually no mood of crisis in Switzerland." What changed in the past five years, Milic says, is the public perception of bankers. UBS, one of the biggest Swiss banks, had to be bailed out by the government, and people were not happy about it. "For decades, the bankers had been regarded as paragons of Swissness, Swiss quality, and success," Milic explains. "This changed significantly after the bailout of UBS. However, the attitude of the Swiss bankers hasn't changed a lot ‚Äî at least, that's the opinion of a majority of Swiss people. They still receives hefty bonuses as if nothing happened ‚Äî that's the view of the average citizen. As long as the banks were successful, people accepted that silently. But ‚Äî with the bankers' 'fall from grace' ‚Äî they are not willing to take that silently any more." Kuster tells me that my image of Switzerland as a "capitalist paradise" is "not that wrong." But, he elaborates, "this spirit will only be kept alive if leading persons in economics and politics are aware of their responsibility, not only [in their work], but also in terms of payment. Modesty has been an old Swiss virtue, which due to globalization has eroded somehow the last two decades." Historically, Church says, the Swiss have been proud of being an Alpine democracy which saw everyone as equal. "There is unease that the country is seen as inhabited solely by bloated plutocrats, greedy bankers and tax dodgers," Church says. "Economic equality is a way of mitigating this image." Of course, unease alone doesn't necessarily create reforms, and Swiss initiatives are lucky to pass even 20% of the time. Most of the recent initiatives that have been accepted were proposed by right-wing SVP and focused on matters very different from economic inequality ‚Äî matters like banning minarets and deporting criminals. March's "fat cat" initiative was a "truly exceptional" case, Milic told me, explaining that it most likely passed (by 70%!) because it was spearheaded by Thomas Minder, a well-known entrepreneur in Switzerland who was able to appeal to liberal and right-wing voters. So, while business leaders may be freaking out a little about Sunday's 1:12 vote, don't be too surprised if it fails. And, no, Switzerland probably isn't going to offer a minimum basic income (one person we talked to said it had "hardly any chance" at all). But, still, let's all be happy somebody is at least considering these options.
Wikimedia CommonsFifty years ago today, President John F. Kennedy was assassinated. At the time, there was no Twitter or Instagram or Bloomberg terminal to instantaneously circulate news like today. So, traders on the New York Stock Exchange didn't find out about the news until long after the event happened. However, traders began dumping stocks before the news crossed the wires. Why? Veteran trader Art Cashin explains in his note this morning: On the floor of the NYSE selling had begun before any headlines hit the tape.† Months later I learned that was thanks to a savvy branch manager in Dallas. Since Presidents didn't travel widely in 1963, he thought he would give much of the staff a treat by letting them go out and watch the Presidential parade.† He kept a skeleton crew and sent the others out to watch the parade, which was due to pass about a block away. Rather shortly the gang wandered back in looking somewhat glum and disappointed.† "What happened"?, asked the manager.† "Parade got canceled" mumbled one of the returnees. After questioning, he learned that they had heard the sirens accelerate, the police lights flare and the "parade" suddenly turn right.† They were many blocks away and obviously heard no shots. The savvy manager quickly asked ñ "Give me a bullish reason to pull a President out of a parade?"† "It's not to sign a tax bill ñ that could wait."† No one could think of a bullish reason to divert a parade.† Then they mulled bearish reasons.† No one thought assassination.† But they did think natural disaster, nuclear accident, missile threat and scores of others.† That's when they decided something "bad" must have happened and began to sell. As their sell orders poured onto the floor and prices began to melt, they were asked by brokers ñ "Why the selling?"† The response was the incomplete ñ "something about the President." Sometime later, the first headline hit ñ "Shots reported fired at President's motorcade!"† The selling broadened an accelerated.† Rather quickly the next headline ñ "President reported hit." Exchange leaders hastily gathered and discussed closing the Exchange.† Then the headline "Motorcade diverted to Parkland Hospital."† They rang the bell at 2:07 (EST). The Dow fell the equivalent of what would be 460 points today.† When we reopened Tuesday, there was such a sigh of relief that power had been transferred and the Constitution still functioned, that a massive rally erupted, soaring the equivalent of 710 points.† An unforgettable period. As bad as the actual news was, the sell-off and subsequent rally shows how negatively the imagination will run when there is a lack of information.
Janet Yellen, our soon-to-be chair of the Federal Reserve, loves the JOLTS report. So market watchers would be wise to follow today's report ó which offers data on job openings, layoffs, quits and hires ó since Yellen has cited JOLTS in the past as an important indicator. Historically, JOLTS hasn't been as market moving as the BLS' monthly jobs report. Still, it's the kind of indicator that could potentially spur the Yellen Fed to alter monetary policy, especially in the years to come as unemployment nears Fed targets. Here's where we are ahead of this morning's report. Job openings are slowly but surely trending upward. FRED Hiring is still below pre-recession levels, "Mainly because the separation rate is lower as well," High Frequency Economics'†Jim O'Sullivan†wrote clients. "Net employment growth has been sufficient to keep unemployment trending down." FRED Layoffs are down generally.†People look to this figure as way to see if we're observing "labor hoarding" ó firms essentially hanging on to the employees that made it through the crisis. While this sounds good, it's actually somewhat of a problem. When firms cut costs, as they did amid the recession, they eventually reach a boundary and make due with the labor that they have. But firms compensate for the shortfall by maximizing the productivity of the workers that remain. If layoffs are down, but hires have yet to break through, it might be symptomatic of the "labor hoarding" effect. FRED The quit rate is still pretty low. "To some extent, the drop in the quit rate may be due to the aging of the population, with younger people more likely to job hop,"†O'Sullivan†wrote clients. "However, much of it likely reflects still-high risk aversion after a severe financial crisis and recession." A higher quit rate is a good sign for the overall economy, since people quit their jobs when they are more confident in the job market. FRED
The past few years have not been particularly kind to advertising technology companies who've tried their luck on the stock market. Despite big revenues and huge promise, most of the companies in the recent wave of ad tech IPOs have either failed miserably out of the gate, or have just now turned themselves around after a sharp drop early in their lives as public companies. In some cases, like Millennial Media, these companies have been punished by Wall Street for failing to produce profits even as they've increased the scale of their advertising networks. Others, like the now-bankrupt Velti, relied on clients whose financial troubles meant they simply couldn't afford to pay them anymore. And yet, recent success from buy-side ad network Rocket Fuel and the ad targeting company Criteo give the industry hope for the future. Here's a look at some recent ad tech IPOs and how they've fared since: Millennial Media Mobile advertising exchange Millennial Media is the poster child for Wall Street's frustration with ad tech companies who are large in scale, but haven't figured out how to turn a profit. Despite building¬†one of the five biggest mobile advertising businesses¬†in the world, Millennial's stock has fallen from its¬†debut at $25¬†in the Spring of 2012¬†to around the $6 mark. MM has attempted to become profitable by increasing its scale¬†with the acquisition of rival Jumptap, but¬†investments in sales staff¬†and¬†increased payments to developers¬†have pumped up the company's operating costs, causing it to report a net loss of $4.6 million this past quarter.  MM data by YCharts Velti Ah, Velti. The mobile exchange was once the envy of the ad tech world, with more than 1,000 employees, and¬†a giant spaceship office¬†in San Francisco. Alas, the company was doomed by¬†a series of ill-fated acquisitions¬†and¬†its inability to get its hands on the money it was owed¬†by customers in the collapsing economies of Greece and Cyprus. Velti¬†filed for bankruptcy protection earlier this month¬†and intends to sell its U.S., British, and Indian mobile marketing businesses to Blackstone Group.  VELT data by YCharts Tremor Video Tremor Video¬†was initially priced at a lower than expected $10, and things have only gotten worse from there for the video ad network. Unfortunately for the video ad tech market, Tremor Video was the first company from the sector out of the gate, and its failure¬†is thought to be holding back other video ad tech companies that might want to go public.  TRMR data by YCharts YuMe Bogged down by insiders¬†who already owned 84% of its stock before it went public, the video ad network YuMe debuted around $9 in August and has hovered around that mark ever since.  YUME data by YCharts Rocket Fuel Rocket Fuel is a demand-side platform that uses artificial intelligence that helps advertisers determine which online ad slots to buy and how much to pay for them. The company came out of the gate strong by closing its first day of trading at $56.10, a 93% increase from its initial pricing. After a sharp decline to $37 in October and early November, Rocket Fuel climbed back up to over $50 upon news that it increased revenues by 132% year over year. It's since dropped to around $48.  FUEL data by YCharts Criteo The retargeting company Criteo has had the smoothest sailing of the bunch thus far, taking in $250 million from its IPO and popping from its initial price of $31 on its first day of trading¬†last month. It's now sitting pretty at a respectable $33.30, but it remains to be seen how the company will fare with the much-rumored death of the cookie, a critical part of Criteo's business.  CRTO data by YCharts
Societe GeneraleThere's a big disconnect here.Nowhere in the world have we seen prices surge more violently than in India. "The recently released WPI for October 2013 shows India‚Äôs food inflation jumped by 18.2% yoy, the fifth straight month of double-digit inflation," noted Societe Generale's Kunal Kundu. Food price fluctuations are usually a function of supply, which is often linked to natural forces, and demand, which is often linked to changing tastes. Societe GeneraleIt's only going up.In India, however, food price inflation is tied to dysfunctional government policy. Kundu explains: An important contributor to this is high and rising MSPs (Minimum Support Price). The MSP is used as a tool to incentivise farmers to produce food grain and help them during periods of crop failure. However, like all other social sector spending, it has become a tool to appease farmers as their votes influence the final election outcome. While MSPs are supposed to be used as a tool to compensate farmers in particular during periods of stress like dough and/or flood (which means that during normal periods, MSPs ought to be lowered or even suspended), in reality MSPs in India have always moved in one direction, up! The continuous uptrend in MSPs creates market distortions. There has never been even a single instance when specific hikes in MSPs (say for drought relief, or as bonuses to meet specific procurement targets etc.) were withdrawn the subsequent year. Rather, these act as a floor for prices that year. From financial year 2007 onward, a substantial hike in MSPs was announced for paddy rice and wheat and this was followed by steep across-the-board hikes the year after. From then on, MSPs have been rising very fast. While, between 1998-99 and 2006-07, the MSPs have increased between 3.1% and 4.2% p.a., they rose by between 9.3% and 15.7% p.a. over 2006-07 and 2013-2014. As MSPs form the benchmark for market prices, these tend to remain elevated even if demand-supply dynamics require prices to come down.... Without reform, food inflation will continue to drive up India's CPI, which is increasing faster than the rest of the emerging world. Societe Generale
The Taper On/Taper Off story has been with us for six months now. It started in May with the release of the Fed minutes and the first ‚Äúwhisper‚Äô of the Taper. The talk of the Taper reached a zenith in late September as the debt markets were convinced that Bernanke would start the Taper in October. It was a big surprise to players when Good Ole Ben chose to delay the October start and push it to sometime in the future; and now it‚Äôs back. An interesting consequence of Taper Talk is how it affects the Corporate new issue bond calendar. The following chart shows how talk of taper killed the ReFi market in June/July/October, and it also shows how the window for new issues opened right after Big Ben delayed the taper for a few months. Up until yesterday the corporate finance types and bond dealers on Wall Street were having a daily party. As of today, they will be back to struggling to push deals out the door. Bruce Krasting / Reuters My read of this is that the debt market does not work well unless there is the perception of QE -4 ever. The capital markets freeze up whenever the threat of a disruption of the $85B of grease the Fed provides every month arises. When the capital markets are working well, the deal flow is there, and this is good for the economy. When there is Taper Talk the refinancing gears get gummed up, and it acts like a drag on the economy. There is no doubt in my mind that Yellen is going to push off the Taper for as long as she can. But even the Great Dove can‚Äôt push the Taper off for too long. I think that Yellen will be forced to initiate a Taper by March. That suggests that there is a four month window before the actual event, but I don‚Äôt think the Taper Talk is going to subside as it did in October/November. The Talk of the Taper will be with us (and the closing of the refinancing window) for months. As a result we are going to see a pause in the up move in equities and a closing of the bond window. This will translate into an economic drag. Whatever your forecast of 4th Q and 1st Q growth were on Tuesday, you should mark them down a bit today. QE is the lubricant of the system. But when it is ended (or threatened to end) it causes pain. We‚Äôve had five years of grease, now we are going to have to pay a price. My guess is that this new round of Taper Talk is going to hurt pretty bad. The reason is that there is next to no basis to believe that QE can be continued beyond a few more months. The Taper sign is now on, it will remain on until the talk is turned into action. When the Taper Talk sign is on, beware. The sign is now brightly lit. 
Wikimedia CommonsGood morning! Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has a quick rundown of the top things folks are talking about: US futures are basically unchanged, with E-minis peaking at 1796 overnight. Overseas markets are consolidating around their recent peaks ñ but volumes remain abysmal, Euro markets trading nearly 30-50% below recent averages. In Asia, Nikkei has a slight bid to it, but traded in heavy volume as it tests multi-decade resistance levels. The Aussie Market your best performer, as the A$ worst currency this week after RBA said to eyeball intervention. Continues to see weakness in the EM on a ìTaperî fear ñ with Thailand losing over 1%. Overall markets pretty quiet, as we bear into a major Holiday week with US Thanksgiving, and the Jewish Holiday of Chanukah ñ great timing for the MSCI rebalance on the close next WednesdayÖ Todayís economic events include JOLTs data at 10, A small POMO and KC Fed data at 11; Fed's Tarullo Speaks on Shadow Banking at 12:15. Both the Senate and House leave for Holiday today. We do have Robin Hood continuing today, highlights being Tilson/Fink at 8 ñ A REIT Symposium at 8:40 ñ Ackman at 9:40.. The US 10YY is off small, but many traders watching the 2-10 yield curve steepen to new peaks, a big driver for US Banks. The DXY is much weaker, with most losses coming against the Ä as Germanyís IFO comes in stronger than expected. The Yen remains near 4month lows however, so the ëCarry Tradeî will continue to benefit global equities. With the DXY weaker, a natural tailwind for commodities ñ and we have most metals higher, but given the bloodletting this week, the Metal bid feels like a ìdead catî bounce. Notably, the Oil Complex under pressure ñ as signs point to continued dialogue on Iran, and the complex considers the economic impact of the impending Taper. WTIís discount to Brent back outside of $15.. David Tepper was interviewed last night ---&gt; Sees equities going higher, Market is not in a bubble ñ but the Taper could hit the market for 5-10%. His play by owning a big percentage of Airline stocks, but still has a large investment in US and EU Banks ñ Specifically pounded the table on Citi, sees stock near $70. Appaloosa flipped their TWTR position from the IPO, punting at $47. Started putting on a Treasury Short, as he sees the Fed Tapering in Q1, but expects it to be gradual ñ but Central Banks more concerned about Deflation than Inflation.
REUTERS/Erik De CastroA Philippine military helicopter drops bottled water to Typhoon Haiyan survivors in Tolosa, Leyte in central Philippines, November 21, 2013.Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
Dan Greenhaus of BTIG (@danBTIG) includes this chart in his latest nightly email. It shows the current market aligned with the market in the days before the Depression. Dan Greenhaus What does the chart mean? Dan has the best take: Indeed, we recently devoted an entire conference speech to pushing back on the idea of an equity bubble. How do we know the story remains? The chart below, overlaying the S&amp;P 500 today against equities in the 20s/30s is now starting to make the rounds. Without getting too personal, ‚Äúchart overlaying‚Äù is lazy and this is no less so. But it does remind us that as much as everyone thinks everyone else is ‚Äúall bulled up,‚Äù these views still persist and have shown no indication they are going away any time soon. This is the crucial thing, which Dan nails. It's not that the chart has any predictive value. It's just interesting that everyone's passing it around.
The recent increase in long-term rates is causing major changes in the mortgage markets. Here are some key trends:1. Refinancing activity continued to decline through Q3. The proportion of mortgage applications for purchase vs. refi has doubled this year (and that's not because of higher demand for homes). 2. A number of lenders who focused on mortgage refinancing such as US Bank, Provident Funding, and Flagstar are struggling (although the largest banks such as Chase and Wells seem to be less affected). This may result in an increase in the number of riskier mortgages.¬† DB: - Lenders who specialized in refinancing transactions have experienced dramatic loss of market share and either will have to become more competitive on rates in growth sectors such as ARMs to regain market share or loosen credit standards. 3. While a larger number of buyers now prefer ARMs, the dynamic within the fixed rate universe is a greater demand for 30-year mortgages vs. 20 or 15. That's because the monthly payments on 30-year mortgages are lower (slower principal repayment) and buyers are looking for the cheapest solution. DB: - As interest rates have risen and volume has dropped, the product mix has shifted sharply ... ¬†30-year mortgages are much more popular with homebuyers‚Äîmore than 50% of 30-year mortgages are used for purchase transactions but less than 20% of shorter-term mortgages. As a consequence, the share of 15-year mortgages fell from 20% in September to 17% in October as the share of 30-year lending rose to 63% from 59%. Meanwhile, the ARM share has doubled to more than 5% since June as HARP‚Äôs share of lending has fallen to 3% from a high of 7% this spring. 4. As a result, MBS bond markets are taking a hit in the form of lower volumes. The sharp decline in refinancing activity has reduced the need to issue new agency mortgage bonds. New issuance is the lowest in years. SoberLook Similarly, trading volumes in MBS have dropped off to new lows. SoberLook Here is a summary on US mortgage markets from Freddie Mac (who, just as Fannie Mae, has been issuing fewer bonds): Frank Nothaft, Freddie Mac Chief Economist: - With the close of 2013 will also come a major transition in the housing finance industry. For the first time since 2000, we're going to see the mortgage market dominated by purchase activity as the refinance share drops below 50 percent. And with mortgage rates rising, we're also going to see the home-sales gains as well as the impressive house price growth begin to moderate to more sustainable levels. 
China, the world's largest energy consumer, on Friday took a step towards launching a market of its own for crude oil futures -- which foreign investors may be allowed to trade. Authorities and an existing exchange in Shanghai set up a company to operate a trading platform for the planned future contracts in the city's new free-trade zone (FTZ), state media and officials said. The location -- separate from the financial hub's stock exchange and futures exchanges -- is a sign that foreigners may be allowed to take part in the market, which could eventually challenge Singapore's dominance in Asian energy trading. China has pledged freer capital flows and the introduction of more financial products in the FTZ, which was established in late September. Futures are an agreement to deliver or take delivery of a commodity or financial instrument at a set date and price. The oil platform will become China's fifth futures exchange, the Shanghai Daily newspaper said. None of the current futures markets trade crude oil. "We will launch it as soon as we get approval," said Yang Maijun, a top executive of the Shanghai Futures Exchange, a major investor in the new Shanghai International Energy Exchange Corp. "We hope to establish an international crude oil futures market that will allow wide participation of foreign investors and lift China's position and influence in the international oil pricing system," he told a conference on Thursday. A FTZ official, deputy head of the management committee Wang Xinling, told the same conference that other energy derivatives might be traded in the future. China's State Council, or cabinet, in September pledged to further open up the domestic futures market through the FTZ. Currently, foreign investors can deal in Chinese stock index futures through a quota system, but have not been allowed to directly trade commodities futures, although regulators have said they will be allowed to "comprehensively" participate in domestic futures trading. China is the world's second largest oil consumer behind the United States. It produced 207 million tonnes of crude oil and imported 271 million tonnes of the resource in 2012, according to National Bureau of Statistics. Chinese energy giant Sinopec estimates the country's oil demand could reach as much as 550 million tonnes by 2015 and more than 600 million tonnes by 2020. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsU.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen stands after testifying during a confirmation hearing on her nomination to be the next chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve before the Senate Banking Committee in Washington, November 14, 2013. Want to watch what Janet Yellen is watching? Make sure you pay attention at 10:00 AM ET to the JOLTS. That's the Job Opening And Labor Turnover Survey, and it gives us more insight into the labor market beyond what we get from the Non-Farm Payrolls report. Specifically, it looks at numbers like Job Openings and people who are quitting their jobs. Why is this especially interesting? Because this is a great way to see if there's any structural unemployment happening in the economy. If job openings are rising sharply, but actual employment is not rising sharply, it's a sign that there's a lot of potential work that's going unfilled for some structural reason (like for example, there's a shortage of qualified workers in fast-booming fields). So far there hasn't been much of any signs of structural unemployment, but it's still worth watching.†
Great interview here with David Tepper of Appaloosa. ¬†Bloomberg¬†provides us with the video¬†and a nice summary: Appaloosa Management‚Äôs David Tepper joined Bloomberg Television‚Äôs Stephanie Ruhle this afternoon, live from The Robinhood Foundation Investors Conference. Tepper said U.S. equity markets are not in a bubble, ‚ÄúI know there‚Äôs talk about bubbles, this is not one.‚Äù Tepper went on to say he is short the bond market and it‚Äôs time to start tapering. Additionally, Tepper said: -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†Sees equities, GDP is going to be higher -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†U.S., Europe on firm ground -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†‚ÄúAirlines are a big play‚Äù -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†Owned big percentages in airlines stocks -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†Sees gross numbers for this year ‚Äúwell into 40s‚Äù -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†Recently put on more of a treasury short -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†Not worried about inflation at all -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†He no longer owns JC Penney Position; JC Penney stake was more of a trade -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†He would have bought Twitter for long-term -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†Rather work at McDonald‚Äôs than Bank but not at grill, because that‚Äôs too hard -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†He still invests in and owns U.S and European Banks -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†Sees upside in Citibank, sees stock at $70/SHR -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†He‚Äôs a democrat but would support Chris Christie -¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†Taper could affect market negatively in short term Read more at¬†http://pragcap.com/david-tepper-still-super-bullish#MqqgbEHZYBMWb341.99
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderIt's been a pretty quiet week for markets overall... and today is no exception. US futures are essentially flat as are markets in Europe. We got a strong reading from the German Ifo institute, showing improvement in the business climate which augurs well for Europe. Other than that, things are real quiet.
