Global markets kind of seem to be on autopilot right now. They just go up. All dips are bought. After the US's big session, the Nikkei is gaining as well. Nikkei.com
As the year winds down, Wall Street's research departments are rolling out their forecasts for 2014 and even 2015. UBS's U.S. economics team unveiled their 2015 GDP forecast on Monday. "Despite a slow economic recovery through 2013, U.S. growth still is expected to pick up," they noted. "After currently forecast 3.0% growth in 2014, we now project 2015 growth to also be 3.0%." Central to their accelerating growth thesis is the idea that the fiscal drag will become less and less onerous.† And this will be offset by a Federal Reserve that begins to tighten monetary policy. This is a theme we expect to be common across most economic forecasts. Indeed, UBS's 3% growth expectation represents the median expectation among Wall Street economists. From UBS: Waning fiscal drag helps permit gradually tighter monetary policyA slower than normal economic recovery has partly reflected public sector restraint following the temporary fiscal stimulus from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Fiscally strapped state and local governments cut spending in the following three years, and Federal spending started to decline in 2011. In 2013 Federal spending has been squeezed by the spending sequester beginning in Q2(13). Looking ahead, the sequester should exert less incremental Federal spending restraint in 2015 after required lower spending levels are achieved in 2014. At some point before 2015, both major political parties probably will agree on longer-term gradual Federal deficit reduction steps that should preclude further sharp sequester-related spending cuts from already low 2014 levels. At the same time, state and local spending should be recovering. In 2014, the Federal Reserve led by a presumptive new Fed Chair Janet Yellen is expected to begin tapering its monthly QE securities purchases, which are expected to be terminated by the end of the year. By mid-2015, we expect the Fed to start gradually raising the Federal funds rate to 0.75% by the end of 2015. In this setting, the benchmark yield on the 10-year Treasury note is projected to rise to 3.2% by the end of next year and 3.5% by the end of 2015. UBS warns prolonged fiscal restraint would certainly be bad news. Furthermore, Obamacare could discourage hiring by small businesses. Otherwise, there appear to be plenty of reasons to be measuredly optimistic about America's near-term future. Like we said earlier, UBS's 3% growth forecast for 2015 represents Wall Street's median. According to Bloomberg, Deutsche Bank sees 3.5% growth, Citi and Goldman Sachs see 3.2% growth, Nomura sees 2.9% growth, and Morgan Stanley sees 2.6% growth.
I did not expect to spark mass outrage when I said this on Twitter Monday: Twitter But I did get a lot of outrage. So let me explain why health insurance isn't like a toaster or, more to the point, why it isn't like other kinds of insurance. Most insurance products are designed to turn an individual's risk of loss into a predictable cost. For example, your premium on homeowner's insurance should equal your expected average annual claims plus a profit margin for the insurer. If your home is in a high-crime neighborhood or especially susceptible to natural disasters, you'll pay more. Because of this, we can more or less let people buy whatever kind of homeowner's insurance they like, or none at all. But health insurance doesn't just allow individuals to turn risks into fixed expenses. It is also designed to shift costs across individuals, away from the sick and toward the healthy. If you have foreseeably high health costs, your health insurance premium will be less than your expected claims; if you're likely to be healthy, it will exceed them. This system is a kind of shadow fiscal policy, redistributing income from the healthy to the sick. It can only work if consumer choice is restricted in such a way that many people are induced to buy policies that cost much more than they can expect to get back. Obamacare contains many such inducements (including subsidies and the individual mandate) but so does the pre-Obamacare status quo in health policy. I'll start with the individual market, which is pretty small (about 5% of Americans get their coverage there) but is being significantly disrupted by the launch of Obamacare. Individually-purchased health insurance is usually a one-year contract.†But these insurance policies are subject to a federal policy called "guaranteed renewability." Once an insurer covers you, it has to offer you renewals as long as you want them, and it's not allowed to raise your premium based on new information about your health. This rule, created by the bipartisan Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), is basically rent control for health insurance. It benefits the sick by obligating health insurers to write policies at a loss; they make up the difference by charging more to the healthy. In most states, there are additional regulations on the individual insurance market that promote cost-shifting. These state regulations fall into two main categories; a†2008 report produced by the Department of Health and Human Services provides a good overview. One set of regulations requires comprehensiveness of health insurance coverage: For example, plans must cover maternity care or mental health. These regulations constitute a transfer from people who don't need these coverages to those who do. Without these rules, insurance coverages that only some people need are likely to be expensive or unavailable. The other set of regulations pertains to how insurers may set rates, limiting the extent they can charge people more because they are likely to make more claims. These rules are more restrictive of insurers than guaranteed renewability because they apply to people who are buying new insurance, not just those who are renewing it. As Mila Kofman and Karen Politz noted in a 2006 paper from Georgetown's Health Policy Institute (emphasis added): State insurance regulation has sought to promote several policy objectives, such as assuring the financial solvency of insurance companies, promoting risk spreading, protecting consumers against fraud, and ensuring that consumers are paid the benefits that they are promised... Rate regulation that spreads risk is, by nature, redistributive, and so not without controversy. Critics of rate regulation argue it raises premiums for healthy individuals and groups higher than they otherwise would pay in the absence of regulation. Advocates of tighter rate regulation note these rules protect consumers from dramatic premium increases when they are sick, or at renewal after they become sick. There is evidence in support of both points of view. For example, one study found that average health insurance premiums are somewhat higher in community rated markets, reflecting the relatively greater ability of older and sicker people to afford coverage. Another study of rating practices in unregulated markets found rate variation of more than nine-fold (monthly premiums of $183 vs. $1,765) for the same policy based on age and health status. State health insurance regulations turn insurance into a tool of shadow fiscal policy, shifting costs from the healthy to the sick, with the extent of the redistribution depending on the state. Redistributive public policy is even more of a theme in the group health insurance market, which is nine times larger than the individual market and the dominant source of "private" health coverage.†The government massively subsidizes this market by excluding employer-provided health benefits from income and payroll taxes.†Federal tax advantages for health insurance add up to $300 billion a year. These tax subsidies are highly coercive. Take a family with salary income of $60,000 and a health plan worth $15,000. If this family instead took all of its income as $75,000 in cash salary, it would face an income and payroll tax hit of around $4,500, or about 6% of their income. For comparison, the individual mandate penalty in Obamacare will be limited to 2.5% of income. Employers are also limited in their ability to pick and choose whom they offer insurance to. You can limit coverage to full-time workers only, but you have to offer it to all of them on approximately the same terms, without premium adjustments for claims or health status. The tax advantage combined with this universality requirement results in a large majority of full-time workers getting covered through work†ó and that benefit ends up being much more valuable to people with high health costs than with low ones. That's a summary of the "private" health insurance system we have today: Subsidize and regulate to push as many people as possible into insurance pools, and shift costs among them so the healthy subsidize the sick. Under Obamacare, we will do the same thing, but more of it. Insurers will face more rules about what kind of coverage they must offer and to whom. Tax subsidies for insurance will be augmented with direct premium subsidies through the exchanges. In general, the changes due to Obamacare will be positive: More people will get covered, and people with low incomes will find that coverage to be significantly more affordable. As I put it yesterday, it replaces the "thicket of subsidies and transfers" that is our current health insurance system with a somewhat more rational thicket. But there is room for improvement. Ross Douthat made some excellent points yesterday about a problem created by Obamacare: Healthy people with moderate incomes who currently buy insurance in the individual market are likely to face significant and undesirable cost increases. People just over the income cutoff for subsidies (400% of the federal poverty line) will end up paying much more than people who make just a little less. But there simply aren't that many people in the situation Ross describes. Adrianna McIntyre calculates that there are about 7 million Americans aged 18-64 who have incomes over 400% of FPL and who are uninsured or insured through the individual market.†That's less than 3% of the population. Of these, just 1.5 million are 35 or younger; the older members of the group are not as likely to be made worse off by new insurance rules. If Republicans were interested in working with Democrats to improve Obamacare and reduce the economic distortions it creates, they could fix this group's problem. For example, they could restrict the value of the tax exclusion for employer-provided coverage (shrinking a needless tax benefit for rich people like Sen. Ted Cruz) and use the savings to extend the subsidy range above the 400% of FPL mark. Reforms like this, needless to say, are not high on the Republican policy agenda. I'm sure some conservatives will say that health insurance should be a normal insurance product and not a tool of fiscal redistribution. But we have this system for a reason: chronic health conditions are really expensive, and they can't be addressed through one-year contracts.†Addressing the problem of uninsurability requires either heavy-handed regulation of the sort we have now and will have under Obamacare, or some other heavy-handed non-market alternative, like a single-payer plan for catastrophic health expenses. And anyway, Republicans aren't willing to endorse the sorts of reforms that would turn health insurance into a normal insurance product. They co-wrote HIPAA with Democrats. When pressed on policy specifics, they talk favorably about redistribution-through-regulation provisions of the Affordable Care Act, like requiring coverage of pre-existing conditions. This reflects the fact that health insurance is not really a private product but a government program creating winners and losers, and the terms of the debate are about who will win and who will lose. Democrats want the poor and the sick to win. Republicans want people with existing coverage and high tax rates to win. Neither side is calling for a free market.
VANCOUVER (Reuters) - A silver and blue ATM, perched up next to the espresso bar in a trendy Vancouver coffee shop, could launch a new era for the digital currency bitcoin, offering an almost instant way to exchange the world's leading virtual money for cash. The value of a bitcoin soared from $13 in January to a high of $266 in April as more businesses and consumers used them to buy and sell online. Some investors are also treating bitcoins like gold, using them to hedge against currency fluctuations and speculating on their rise. The kiosk, which looks like the average ATM but with hand and barcode scanners, opened for business on Tuesday and by mid-morning people were lined up to swap their bitcoins for cash, or to deposit cash to buy more bitcoins. "It's as easy as walking up to a machine, scanning your hand, entering some cash and buying bitcoin," said†Jordan Kelley, chief executive of†Las Vegas-based†Robocoin, the company that builds the ATMs. "With this, it's a 2-minute process. For any online exchange, it's at least two days." Bitcoins, currently worth about $210 each, can be transferred without going through banks or clearing houses, thereby cutting fees. Users can buy products and services online or in a handful of stores, including the Waves coffee shop where the ATM is. With the bitcoin ATM, users scan their hand to confirm identity, then funds move to or from a virtual wallet on their†smartphone. The system limits transfers to $1,000 a day, in an effort to curb money laundering and other fraud. Bitcoiniacs, the local dealer that operates the ATM, will roll out four other kiosks across†Canada†in December.†Robocoin†said†Canada†was the ideal place to launch the kiosk due to a critical mass of users and less stringent oversight than in the†United States, where the bitcoin trade is monitored by anti-money laundering regulators. "We think the Vancouver market is enormous and we're excited to be here," said Kelley. "By the end 2013, we'll be all over†Canada. By the end of 2014, we'll be all over the world, including the†United States." Bitcoin is not a recognized currency in†Canada, so†Ottawa's anti-money laundering watchdog, the†Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre, does not monitor its trade. Still†Bitcoiniacs' founders say they are working with the agency to be ready for when†Canadadoes start regulating them. "We're already being proactive in our business," said†Bitcoiniacs†co-founder†Mitchell Demeter. "We abide by any guidelines they would impose - which includes the 'know you customer' laws and anti-money laundering laws." GOING MAINSTREAM Bitcoins were launched in 2008 and are traded within a global network of computers. They are not backed by a single company or government, but their release is tightly controlled, mimicking a central banking system's control over the minting of money. Bitcoins can be bought with near anonymity, which supporters say lowers fraud risk and increases privacy. But critics say that also makes bitcoins a magnet for drug transactions, money-laundering and other illegal activities. The currency's reputation took a hit this month, when U.S. regulators shut down†Silk Road, an online marketplace used to buy and sell illegal drugs, and seized $3.6 million in bitcoins. But the virtual currency is gaining hold among businesses and consumers, a key step to a bigger role. "I think it's definitely going mainstream," said Demeter. "I think as things progress, and the infrastructure is built, it will become easier for people to buy and sell, and so more people will start using it." In Vancouver, for example, dozens of people attend weekly bitcoin meet-ups and a member co-op is promoting the currency to a growing list of local retailers. At Waves, Vancouver resident†Chung Cheong†used bitcoin to pay for his mug of tea and was happy to mull over the future of the digital currency. "It's been said that we're at the stage where email was in 1992," he said. "Is it risky? Sure. But look at how the Internet and email changed the world." (Additional reporting by Louise Egan in†Ottawa; Editing by Richard Chang)
REUTERS/Tobias Schwarz FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. BlackRock: We're Seeing Real Bubble Like Markets Again (Bloomberg)  Speaking at a panel discussion in Chicago BlackRock CEO Larry Fink said the Fed's policy is contributing to "bubble-like markets," reports John McCormick at Bloomberg. He said it is "imperative" that the Fed begins to taper its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program. "We've seen real bubble-like markets again. Weíve had a huge increase in the equity market. Weíve seen corporate-debt spreads narrow dramatically." How Advisors Can Help High-Net Worth Clients With Irregular Incomes Save (The Wall Street Journal) It's hard for high net-worth clients with irregular incomes to know how much to save for retirement and emergencies and how much they need for everyday expenses, writes Paul J. Carroll of Houston-based Efficient Wealth Management in a WSJ column. † "As advisers, one way to help clients with irregular income is to help them turn that variable income stream into a predictable one using behavioral finance strategies. One strategy for doing this is to use a "bucket" for a client that is designed for cash flow. Depending on the client's situation, we can put two to five years of income into that bucket in cash and stable investments. Then, we can give them a set monthly paycheck from that bucket. If the target is $120,000 a year, we can issue them a check from their income bucket for $10,000 a month. "By creating a steady paycheck for the client, we allow them to know the parameters of their budget. Behind the scenes we manage the client's investments and income bucket, and what they primarily see is their monthly allowance. If they receive income, they deposit it directly into the income bucket. If they need to withdraw more money than their monthly allowance, you can ask the client to notify you first--that extra step may deter them from the impulse to overspend. Advisors Shouldn't Work With Clients That Are Too Different From Them (Think Advisor) Advisors should find clients that aren't to behaviorally different than themselves, writes Savita Iyer-Ahrestani in Think Advisor. Clients often reject advisors if they think the relationship doesn't work but advisors hesitate to do the same.† "Advisors need to be able to look for personalities that match theirs and are easy to manage to create the best relationships with," Peggy Mengel, human behavior solutions advisor at DNA Behavior International said to Ahrestani. "Either that, or they should be able to modify their behavior to suit the clientís behavior if they want the match to workóknowing, however, that sitting on the opposite end of someone is very hard and it can be draining to constantly tailor their personality to fit that clientís." This Great Bubble Chart Shows How Europe's Major Cities Have Fared Since The Financial Crisis (Center For London) Europe has emerged from a recession and some countries have performed better than others. "The range of performance within each nation indicates the extent to which cities are managing national economic constraints in very different ways," write Greg Clark and Tim Moonen at the Centre for London. Istanbul has been the most dynamic city since 2007, while cities like Athens and Barcelona haven't performed well. Centre for London UBS Books $41 Million Loss On Puerto Rico (Investment News) UBS took a $20 million trading loss, and $21 million in credit losses, connected to loans related to Puerto Rico's municipal market, reports Trevor Hunnicutt at Investment News. From Hunnicutt: "The trading loss reflects provisions UBS made to continue providing liquidity to clients in that U.S. territory's bonds as they declined in value, according to UBS spokesman Gregg Rosenberg. Mr. Rosenberg said the company also made lending facilities backed by Puerto Rican debt available to its wealth management clients, and the credit losses reflect the diminished value of that collateral. ...'In our view this is a market issue and not a UBS issue,' Mr. Rosenberg said."
Andrew Lo thinks financial engineering can cure cancer. The biggest problems confronting cancer research are the enormous cost of developing drugs, the long research and development cycles and the high likelihood that a drug will fail. The rewards for a successful drug, however, are enormous ‚Äì not just medically, but financially as well. Lo has proposed a way that drug companies can use financial engineering to spread risks among investors and provide incentives to develop successful cancer treatments. He claims that a securitized-debt offering ‚Äì a ‚Äúcancer mega-fund‚Äù ‚Äì would offer investors attractive risk-adjusted returns. Lo is a professor at the MIT Sloan School of Management and director of its Laboratory for Financial Engineering. He spoke at the CFA Institute‚Äôs fixed-income conference in Boston on October 17. ‚ÄúYou can actually make money ‚Äì good money ‚Äì by curing cancer,‚Äù according to Lo. Each year, 230,000 women get breast cancer and 30,000 die of the disease. The annual cost of breast-cancer treatment is $100,000. But a drug that cost $50,000 a year and transformed breast cancer into a chronic manageable disease would be a very compelling business proposition, according to Lo. ‚ÄúThere has got to be a way to make money for everybody if you can finance that kind of drug discovery,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúWe just need to find a better way to do it.‚Äù I‚Äôll look first at a conundrum that Lo identified ‚Äì why pharmaceuticals have had poor returns, despite a ‚Äúgolden decade‚Äù of advances in cancer treatment ‚Äì and then discuss how a cancer mega-fund would work. The conundrum Over the last decade, Lo said there have been tremendous breakthroughs in our understanding of the molecular basis of cancer. He cited the development of drugs such as Gleevec in 2001, which offered a first-of-its-kind cure for leukemia because of the way it exploited the molecular basis of the disease, followed by another so-called designer drug, Avastin, in 2004. Sutent, which was released in 2006, was even more remarkable. It treats kidney cancer, and its developers went on to become the first to sequence a cancer gene, for leukemia. Last year, one of its developers, Dr. Lukas Wartman, had a recurrence of a particularly nasty kind of leukemia called acute lymphoblastic leukemia, which kills in weeks, not years. Wartman‚Äôs co-researchers sequenced his DNA and RNA and that of his leukemia gene. The RNA sequencing, which was not normally done, led them to discover a genetic mutation that indicated there was a drug that could suppress the leukemia gene. That drug was Sutent. Within a few months of beginning treatment, all trace of Wartman‚Äôs leukemia had disappeared. He was cured, though that‚Äôs a term oncologists don‚Äôt like to use given cancer‚Äôs unpredictability. A similar breakthrough occurred the day before Lo spoke, when scientists at the Washington University Genome Institute identified a very small number of genes responsible for tumor growth in 12 different kinds of cancer. Here‚Äôs the conundrum. Despite this progress in medical science, the investment performance of biotech and pharmaceutical companies over the last decade has been dismal, according to Lo. The NYSE Arca index of pharmaceutical companies has returned -1% over that period. Last year saw the smallest number of biotech startups, and there are now about half as many of those companies as there were a decade ago. The reason for this, according to Lo, is that the bio-pharma business model is broken. The risks in the industry are growing ‚Äì precisely because the science behind it is getting smarter. Read the rest at Advisor Perspectives ¬ª
Flickr/Stuart R BrownOne of the hottest ongoing debates in the stock market is about the sustainability of historically high profit margins. High profit margins have allowed companies to amplify modest sales growth into impressive earnings growth. However, the debate often gets confused when people don't make the distinction between the operating profit margin and the net margin. The operating profit margin is generally measured as earnings before interest expenses and taxes, or EBIT. This margin reflects the operating efficiency of a company. The net profit margin is the profit after all operating, interest, and tax expenses are subtracted. It's the bottom line. Unlike the EBIT margin, the net margin is impacted heavily by financial planning decisions. "The margin story continues to be far less about efficiencies than smart tax and balance sheet planning," said Citi's Tobias Levkovich in a note to clients this week. "While there is much discussion about companies being able to manage their businesses wonderfully and thus even small revenue gains can generate more impressive bottom-line increases, this mindset is ill- founded, in our view. The broad data shows that overall S&amp;P 500 operating margins have been flat to down for more than six quarters and the true story behind net margins has been lower effective tax rates and interest expense." Levkovich argues that the earnings surprises we've seen so far during this reporting season have been of low quality because of the nature of these margin trends. Below is a chart of the EBIT margin and a chart of interest as a percentage of sales.¬† The latter chart reflects the low interest rate environment. Citi Research Many people often argue that corporations have been able generate increasing levels of profits by laying off workers and squeezing the workers they keep.¬† However, employee costs are included in the EBIT margin, which has been trending lower for the S&amp;P 500. "The most disturbing issue is the view that EBIT margins have been so good and that companies have been incredibly efficient running their operations," added Levkovich. "Figure 10 should dissuade anyone from believing that misperception. After-tax margins on the other hand have been solid but that reflects lower effective tax rates and lower interest expense as a percent of sales due to low interest rates (see Figure 11). In this context, management teams have been far better at tax planning and balance sheet engineering which is not as impressive as running their underlying businesses but that is not the current talking points for many misguided market observers."
REUTERS/ Jana AsenbrennerovaI'm reticent to enter the "how my travel story applies to you" chorus, but as a markets reporter interested in how people respond to incentives and how businesses wield power over human incentive structures, I simply can't resist. This weekend I took a relatively full United flight from Denver back to New York City. Sensing that we'd be packed from cockpit to bathroom, eager passengers began to coalesce around the gate door (comically early, of course). You probably know how this goes. Throughout this process, we inauspicious members of "boarding zone five" were told repeatedly over the loudspeaker that this was indeed a full flight, and that our rollaboard suitcases had little chance of finding a home in the plane's overhead compartments. But fear not, United then told us, because the gate agent would be happy to check our bag right there. We could pick them up at baggage claim back in New York.¬† "No, customers are not guaranteed [an overhead] space. However, if the carry-on bag is within the size limits we will gate check the item free of charge," United spokesman Charles Hobart confirmed to Business Insider in an email. United was true to its word, and to the utter disbelief of rational decision-making passengers, a handful of our zone five comrades opted to gate-check their bags. This was the wrong decision (for them). Very wrong. It shouldn't take a markets reporter to tell you why.¬† It is downright silly to gate-check your bag. Do not do this unless you are a sucker, because you have¬†absolutely no incentive to do so.* Let's assume you don't want to check your bag because A) if you had wanted to, you would have done it already while checking in, B) it's your carry-on bag, meant for carrying on and C) who wants to wait at baggage claim in New York? We don't have to yank out a Nash equilibrium to figure out how you beat United every time. If you're a zone fiver, you should opt-out of the gate check option and take your bag on the plane to find a spot.¬†If you don't find an overhead spot, hey, whatever, United just gate-checks your bag anyway (per their free of charge policy). Airlines like United obviously offer this gambit to save time, in the hopes that zone fivers will lose heart and just¬†oh well the whole thing. Most people don't want to be "that guy" slowing down the plane for everyone (which is, on average, a pretty rare occurrence). This probably makes things easier for the boarding process. There are two ways to look at why the economically-minded people at United do this. Either they don't actually care whether zone fivers bring their bag on the plane or not or they are just doing it wrong. Let's say for a second that United does care. They really want you to gate-check your bag because it saves them time (and money). They're not asking just for funsies. If this is the case, they are doing it wrong. If I were a United executive, here would be my policy. "OK, zone five, you have a choice. We can gate-check your bag for free now or you can risk taking it on the plane. But if you can't find a spot and we end up needing to gate-check it after all, you don't get a free soft drink or peanuts on board." See? Now we're talking. Now I have a choice to make. And now, perhaps, this layover becomes a fun game of chicken with the other passengers. But my hunch is that United really doesn't care all that much. Sure, it would be nice to speed things along and have the zone fivers willfully gate-check. Boarding goes faster and flight attendants have less bag tetris to do. But it doesn't really affect the bottom line, which is why they're kind of blas√© about it over the loudspeaker. Which brings me back to my original point. You have no reason to gate-check your bag. So, be strong, and don't. *Caveats:
AP Photo/Kathy WillensYelp CEO Jeremy StoppelmanYelp's Q3 earnings have just been announced. Here's what was reported: Revenue: $61.2 million Earnings Per Share: -$.04 Here's what analysts were expecting: Revenue: $59.41 million Earnings Per Share:¬†-$0.01 In the last year, Yelp has seen a dramatic increase in its stock price. Last year at this time Yelp was valued at $24. Right now, it's just under $70. You can find the full set of earnings numbers on Yelp's investor relations page. This graph shows the huge increase over the last year: Screenshot/Yahoo Finance 

REUTERS/Jason ReedAt least as we know it. Tyler Cowen on how it ends (read the whole thing): ñ The exchanges will be mostly working by March 2014, but by then the risk pool will be dysfunctional.† In the meantime, real net prices will creep up, if only through implicit rationing and restrictions on provider networks.† The Obama administration will attempt to address this problem ó unsuccessfully ó through additional regulation. ñ By October 2014, no one will think the exchanges are a satisfactory solution, except for 17 state exchanges which will be running reasonably well.† Some of the state-level exchanges, by the way, will have more serious problems than is currently evident, mostly on the back end. ñ Chris Christie will campaign against ACA and beat Hillary Clinton in the general election.† Upon assuming office he will place price controls on the insurance plans in the individual market, repeal much but not all of the federal financial support for the Medicaid expansion, and keep many other parts of ACA, while claiming to have repealed the whole thing.† Enough Democrats will go along with this, as public opinion will have shifted toward the Republican side on this issue.† The individual market still wonít be working very well.† The exchanges will be working fine in the technical sense, but skittishness, political risk, and the adverse selection death spiral will have led the insurance companies to withhold high quality policies from that side of the market. An interesting scenario. So even a President Christie would initially keep the likely popular parts of Obamacare ó such as community rating, guaranteed issue, adult kids staying on parents health plan, maybe even the premium subsidies. This hardly seems like a sustainable status quo. I urge Team Christie (or Team Rubio, or Team Cruz) to have a look at†Seizing the ACA†for other reform ideas and how think about healthcare reform from an innovation perspective.
REUTERS/Jorge Dan LopezA man receives a traditional cleansing outside San Simon chapel in Iztapa, in the region of Escuintla, around 62 km (39 miles), from Guatemala City, October 28, 2013. Stocks had another up day, closing at yet another all-time high. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:

ReutersA lot of people all over the world are¬†having opinions now¬†about the ostensibly gigantic $13 billion settlement Jamie Dimon and JP Morgan Chase have entered into with the government. The general consensus from most observers in the finance sector is that this superficially high-dollar settlement ‚Äî worth about half a year's profits for Chase ‚Äî is an unconscionable Marxist appropriation. It's been called a "robbery" and a "shakedown," in which red Obama and his evil henchman Eric Holder confiscated cash from a successful bank, as¬†The Wall Street Journal¬†wrote, "for no other reason than because they can and because they want to appease their left-wing populist allies." Look, there's no denying that this is a lot of money. It's the biggest settlement in the history of government settlements, and it's just one company to boot. But this has been in the works for a long time, and it's been in the works for a reason. This whole thing, lest anyone forget, has its genesis in a couple of state Attorneys General (including New York's Eric Schneiderman and Delaware's Beau Biden) not wanting to sign off on any deal with the banks that didn't also address the root causes of the crisis, in particular the mass fraud surrounding the sale and production of subprime mortgage securities. Those holdouts essentially forced the federal government's hand, leading Barack Obama to create a federal working group on residential mortgage-backed securities (widely seen as the AGs' price for okaying the $25 billion robosigning deal), headed up by Schneiderman, whose investigation of Chase and its affiliates led to the deal that's about to be struck. Minus all of that, minus those state holdouts in those foreclosure negotiations, this settlement probably would never even take place: The federal government seemed more than willing previously to settle with the banks without even addressing the root-cause issues that are at the heart of this new Chase deal. So let's not forget that ‚Äî that even this $13 billion settlement, which is actually a $9 billion settlement (see below), came very close to never happening. But now it is happening, and the business press is going nuts about how unfair it all is. In fact, this deal is actually quite a gift to Chase. It sounds like a lot of money, but there are myriad deceptions behind the sensational headline. Read Matt Taibbi's Feature on the Gangster Bankers Who Are Too Big to Jail First of all, the settlement, as the folks at¬†Better Markets¬†have¬†pointed out, may wipe out between $100 billion and $200 billion in potential liability ‚Äî meaning that the bank might just have settled "for ten cents or so on the dollar." The Federal Housing Finance Agency alone was suing Chase and its affiliates for $33 billion. The trustee in the ongoing Bernie Madoff Ponzi scandal was suing Chase for upwards of $19 billion. Obviously, those plaintiffs may never have gotten that kind of money out of Chase. But just settling the mere potential of so much liability has huge value for the bank. It's part of the reason the company's¬†share price¬†hasn't exactly cratered since the settlement was announced. Moreover, the settlement is only $9 billion in cash, with $4 billion earmarked for "mortgage relief." Again, as¬†Better Markets¬†noted, we've seen settlements with orders of mortgage relief before, and banks¬†seem to have many canny ways¬†of getting out of the spirit of these requirements. In the foreclosure settlement, most of the ordered "relief" eventually came in the form of short sales, with banks letting people sell their underwater houses and move out without paying for the loss in home value. That's better than nothing, but it's something very different than a bank working to help families stay in their homes. There's also the matter of the remaining $9 billion in fines being tax deductible (meaning we're subsidizing the settlement), and the fact that Chase is¬†reportedly trying to get the FDIC to assume¬†some of Washington Mutual's liability. But overall, the key to this whole thing is that the punishment is just money, and not a crippling amount, and not from any individual's pocket, either. Mario Tama/Getty ImagesIn fact, the deal that has just been completed between Chase and the state represents the end, or near the end, of a long process by which people who committed essentially the same crimes as Bernie Madoff will walk away without paying any individual penalty. What Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns (Chase's guilty acquisitions) were doing in the mortgage markets was little more than an elaborate take on a Madoff-style Ponzi scheme. Actually, most of the industry was guilty of the same thing, but in the cases of these two banks in particular the concrete evidence of fraud is extensive, and the comparison to a Madoff-style caper isn't a fanciful metaphor but more like evidentiary fact. Madoff's operational fiction was his own personality. He used his charm and his lifestyle and his social status to con rich individuals into ponying up money into an essentially nonexistent investment scheme. In the cases of both WaMu and especially Bear, the operating fictions were broad, carefully-crafted infrastructures of bogus guarantees, flatlined due diligence mechanisms, corrupted ratings agencies and other types of legal chicanery. These fake guarantees and assurances misled investors about they were buying. Most thought they were investing in home mortgages. What they were actually investing in was a flow of cash from new investors that banks like Bear and WaMu were pushing into a rapidly-overheating speculative bubble. These banks created huge masses of mortgage securities they knew to be highly risky and/or fraudulent. At Bear, one deal manager jokingly nicknamed one pool of mortgages, SACO-2006-08, the "SACK OF SHIT" deal. In another case, Bear's securitization company, EMC, obtained a pool of mortgages from a sketchy mortgage originator called AHM, and found out that as much as 60 percent of the batch was delinquent. Yet they continued to buy these mortgages and throw them into the great hamburger-machine, turning them into securities that would in turn be bought by everyone from pension funds to Fannie and Freddie. And then they pushed sales even harder, relying upon the influx of new buyers of these securities to keep the value of the old securities stable. This is exactly what Bernie Madoff did, it's what¬†Charles Ponzi¬†did, and it's what¬†Allen Stanford¬†did ‚Äî using cash from new investors to pay off the old investors. The supermarket-bank version of this game was just more elaborate, involved more moving parts and threatened indescribably greater damage. Bernie Madoff ultimately caused about¬†$18 billion in losses. When he got caught, the state threw the book at him, giving him a¬†150-year jail sentence. Meanwhile, just the subset of Bear Stearns defendants,¬†according to a complaint¬†against Chase filed last year by Eric Schneiderman, caused $22.5 billion in losses in just two years, 2006 and 2007. And while it is true that the federal government in this latest $13 billion settlement is ostensibly¬†reserving the right to continue to pursue criminal charges, don't hold your breath. The arc of this story suggests that the whole purpose of this agreement has been to find the highest price Chase is willing to pay to a) stay in business b) keep employees out of jail. So again, $13 billion sounds like a lot of money. But Bernie Madoff is doing 150 years, and nobody in this cast of characters will personally pay a dollar in fines. Nobody will do one day in jail. That's a huge, huge discrepancy. Of course, Bernie Madoff today is reviled on Wall Street, even by papers like the¬†Wall Street Journal. This is mainly because he ripped off other finance-sector hotshots, but also because he gave Wall Street a bad name. Post-2009 coverage of Madoff from the financial press has focused intently on the failure of the government (and in particular the SEC) to aggressively investigate the scandal in a timely fashion. This has followed a rhetorical line that frequently emanates from the finance sector, in which white-collar crime is somehow less the fault of criminals than of the police who failed to stop it. These "Where were the regulators?" cries generally never show up in financial-press coverage of Wall Street scandals until those same pundits have first exhausted all attempts to argue that no crime was ever committed by the bank/broker/hedge fund in question. Remember, for instance, that there was a time when papers like the¬†Journal¬†thought Bernie Madoff was one of their own, didn't want to make trouble for him, and bluntly refused to investigate him. ReutersPaul Gigot, editorial page editor of 'The Wall Street Journal.' The¬†Journal¬†was infamously given the whole seedy Madoff story by investigator Harry Markopolos in 2005 (see¬†p. 16 of this devastating testimony), and though reporter John Wilke wanted to follow up on the piece, it appeared his superiors at the paper never gave him the go-ahead. But after Madoff came forward weeping and confessing in late 2008, and there was no longer any possibility of denying his monstrous guilt, suddenly the¬†Journal¬†turned into an ardent critic of soft government enforcement, ragefully denouncing everyone from Eliot Spitzer to the SEC for failing to catch Madoff. In its December 17th, 2009 editorial,¬†To Catch a Thief, for instance, the paper blasted the financial cops of the world for failing to protect Madoff's investors and the good name of honest Wall Street business: The real lesson is that financial enforcement nearly always fails to protect investors, and this Ponzi scheme is merely typical . . . In 1999, trader Harry Markopolos wrote that "Madoff Securities is the world's largest Ponzi Scheme," in a letter to the SEC. More recently, multiple SEC inquiries and exams in 2005 and 2007 found only minor infractions‚Ä¶ Neither current AG Andrew Cuomo nor Mr. Spitzer appears to have had a clue about Mr. Madoff's conduct. As noted by multiple¬†media¬†outlets¬†at the time, the paper conveniently left out of these thundering denunciations the damning fact that the¬†Journal¬†itself had been contacted by Markopolous years before, and had blown him off even more completely than the SEC. So now we, and they, are talking about the Chase scandal. This is Madoff all over again, only on a much huger scale. Ten years from now, bet on it, the¬†Wall Street Journal¬†will be denouncing everyone from Eric Holder to Lanny Breuer to the SEC and DOJ officials in the Bush administration for failing to protect investors from predatory companies like Bear Stearns, Washington Mutual and their parent, JP Morgan Chase. Right now, however, these papers are still stuck in the denial phase, which is to be expected, I suppose. But it doesn't mean we have to take these ridiculous editorials about Chase's victimhood seriously. A few more notes on the deal. This latest settlement¬†reportedly came about¬†when CEO Jamie Dimon picked up the phone and called a high-ranking lieutenant of Attorney General Holder, who was about to hold a press conference announcing civil charges against the bank. The Justice Department meekly took the call, canceled the presser, and worked out this hideous deal, instead of doing the right thing and blowing off the self-important Wall Street hotshot long used to resolving meddlesome issues with the gift of his personal attention. Only on Wall Street does the target of a massive federal investigation pick up the telephone and call up the prosecutor expecting to make the thing go away ‚Äî and only in recent American history would such a tactic actually work. ReutersJ.P. Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon (L) leaves the U.S. Justice Department after meeting with Attorney General Eric Holder, in Washington September 26, 2013. Considering the scale of the offenses involved (one could make the argument that Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual by themselves did enough damage and cranked out enough toxic loans to cause the 2008 crash) the state could have taken the hardest of hard lines. Instead, they once again took a big fat check to walk away. Papers like the¬†Journal¬†have particularly complained that Chase should not be held responsible for the offenses committed by companies long before Chase acquired them. What they forget is that Chase has made a fortune off its acquisitions of Bear and Washington Mutual, two purchases which were massively subsidized by the state. Nobody complained about potential liability back when all those two deals were doing for Chase was helping its executives buy overpriced art and summer homes. And remember, this sort of liability was basically the only risk Chase took in these deals. The government took on most of the rest, in order to make the acquisitions happen. Chase got to¬†buy Bear Stearns with $29 billion in Fed guarantees, with the state setting up a special bailout facility, Maiden Lane, to unwind all of the phony-baloney loans created through Bear's Ponzi-mortgage-mechanism described above. So Chase got to acquire one of the world's biggest investment banks for pennies on the dollar, and then got the Fed to buy up all the toxic parts of the bank's portfolio, essentially making the public the involuntary customer of Bear's criminal inventory. Later on, Chase took $25 billion in TARP money, bought Washington Mutual and its $33 billion in assets for the fire-sale price of $1.9 billion, and then repeated the Bear scenario, getting another Maiden Lane facility to take on the deadliest parts of Washington Mutual's portfolio (including, for instance,¬†a pool of mortgages¬†in which 94 percent of the loans had limited documentation). Incidentally, the notion that Chase was somehow dragged kicking and screaming by the government and forced to buy these two massive companies essentially for free is almost as laughable and ridiculous as the oft-cited explanation for the financial crisis, that the government forced banks to lend to the poor. Chase, as has been reported by multiple outlets, had¬†already tried on its own to buy both companies¬†before the state arranged its infamous shotgun weddings. Only after both firms collapsed, the economy was in crisis, and Chase was able to get the Fed to eat the toxic portfolios of both companies did these already-longed-for acquisitions take place. Chase was too big to fail before the crash, but it's even Too-Bigger-To-Failier now, thanks to the expanded market share afforded by these two Fed-sterilized acquisitions.¬†Bloomberg¬†reported that Bear's book value has soared by $36 billion since it swallowed up those two firms with the public's help. Its retail banking earnings have soared nearly 1000 percent. It has more than doubled the size of its banking deposits. Chase didn't have a single branch in Florida or California before this deal: It's now a top-5 banking presence in both states. ReutersA security guard patrols outside the JP Morgan Chase & Co annual shareholders meeting at the bank's back-office complex in Tampa, Florida, May 15, 2012.So nobody should be crying for poor Chase now, just because it's no longer able to simply sit back and collect gobs and gobs of essentially free cash from the ill-gotten market share "won" by its two crooked acquisitions. Incidentally, I don't remember hearing anything from Jamie Dimon at the time Chase was acquiring these banks about any reluctance to buy up two firms that had just spent years helping to blow up the world economic system with phony loans. As one friend of mine on Wall Street noted earlier this week, if there was a single document anywhere with Dimon's name on it expressing reluctance about these new bedfellows, it would have been produced ages ago and "that dickhead Sorkin would have put it in his movie." These guys at Chase knew exactly what they were buying when they took on these companies. They just thought they were getting the deal of the century, by taking on the still-functioning businesses of two finance giants for a song, giving Chase a state-subsidized push into the pole position of American banking. And they figured, very nearly correctly, that they would never have to pay any serious freight for all the offenses committed by their new acquisitions. Now they'll have to write a big check, which sucks for them, but what about the victims? To those critics crying about a "shakedown": Would you prefer that Chase merely be required to pay back every dollar to those investors wiped out by these schemes? Because that would be a hell of a lot more than $13 billion. It would be great if everyone covering Wall Street could sign a pact, and agree: No more crying, please, about no-jail, no-individual-penalty settlements in which companies use shareholder money to pay fines at huge discounts relative to the actual damage they caused. And again, wake me up when even one of these guys goes to jail. There are only about a million Americans doing time for less.
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniBill McBride, author of Calculated Risk is one of the most accurate housing forecasters.† He was on the money about the housing crash and its impact on the economy. He also accurately called the bottom in housing in 2011.  Now McBride argues that home prices will slow going forward. From McBride:  "It appears house price increases have slowed recently based on agent reports and asking prices (a combination of a little more inventory and higher mortgage rates), but this slowdown in price increases is not showing up yet in the Case-Shiller index because of the reporting lag and because of the three month average (the August report was an average of June, July and August prices). I expect to see smaller year-over-year price increases going forward and some significant deceleration towards the end of the year or in early 2014. "I also think it is important to look at prices in real terms (inflation adjusted).† Case-Shiller, CoreLogic and others report nominal house prices.† As an example, if a house price was $200,000 in January 2000, the price would be close to $276,000 today adjusted for inflation." In real terms, McBride points out that home prices are back to early 2000 levels.† McBride isn't the only one who expects home price growth to slow. Some, like Paul Diggle at Capital Economics and Michelle Meyer at Bank of America, have also argued for some time that home prices are set to cool this year. Read the entire piece here ª
Skip straight to the secret plan ¬ª The fact that BlackBerry today can only attract $4.7 billion from potential buyers puts some new perspective on a secret plan put together last year by tech venture capital investor Robin Chan. He wanted to raise $6 billion from backers, approach the board of directors with a hostile bid to replace the management, "fork" its operating system, and turn BlackBerry into the Android of enterprise. Chan, who has funded Twitter, Square, and Foursquare among others, called his plan a "coup d'etat" that would have rescued BlackBerry. But he didn't get enough backing and the plan came to nothing. The plan was codenamed "BBX." It is outlined in a PowerPoint deck on the following pages. You can read more about it on The Verge. You can download the deck in its entirety from Slideshare.
REUTERSRemember when Bitcoin prices crashed after the government shut down illicit online emporium Silk Road? That now seems like a distant memory.† Since reaching a low of $109 on the Mt. Gox exchange the day of Silk Road incident Oct. 2, prices have climbed nearly $100, reaching as much as $233. Prices haven't fallen below $200 since Sunday. The reason is simple: China. Even before the Silk Road crackdown, Chinese had been nudging the market up. In September, in a story headlined†"Bitcoin Mania Grips China," BloombergBusinesseweek's Lulu Yilun Chen reported on the surging investment in Chinese-based Bitcoin exchanges and "miners," or firms that set up computers with the processing power to unlock new packets of currency.† ìIn China, the stock market, property, and bond market are all not so good, so people get really excited when they hear of a new investment that generates high returns,î Peter Pak, head of trading at BOCI Securities in Hong Kong, told Chen. Then in mid-October, Baidu, China's version of Google, announced it would start accepting the digital currency for some of its services. In an email, Zach Harvey, founder of Bitcoin ATM developer Lamassu, says the move gave the digital currency a "huge boost," both in terms of legitimacy and in value ó since confirmation of the announcement began filtering out around Oct. 16, prices have climbed $40. China now†ranks second†behind the U.S. for number of Bitcoins created weekly. In her story, Chen reported that, relatively speaking, the number of Chinese Bitcoin users has been too small to draw the attention of the Party to the currency. But Harvey noted that "small" in China could mean big for the rest of the world: "[Given]†the sheer size of the Chinese population...a small percentage could get excited about Bitcoin, and the could really drive up the general popularity of Bitcoin." On Oct. 20, Bitcoin Magazine's Vitalik Buterin wrote†that, with some caveats, "the Bitcoin markets are dominated by the Chinese." "Although it might be hard to believe, the Chinese Bitcoin exchanges are in fact responsible for much more trade volume than those in Europe and the United States.  "BTCChina, the most prominent Chinese Bitcoin exchange, currently shows roughly the same volume as†MtGox and BitStamp, and there are†plenty†of†other†exchanges†that have not received as much public attention outside of China, but whose volumes add up to even more than BTCChina altogether.  Buterin noted that there are signs some of that volume revolves around speculation. Even so, Chen reported Chinese regulators have so far ignored the Bitcoin market. But even if they were to take notice, Harvey argued they may let it continue largely unfettered. "It seems the Chinese government actually likes the idea that the US federal government seems to be concerned about Bitcoin, so they're not being as harsh regarding regulatory requirements."† Prices reached highs of $213 on Mt. Gox Tuesday.
CNBCEugene FamaNobel prize winner Eugene Fama was on CNBC earlier today to discuss the Federal Reserve and its extraordinary monetary policy. Pragmatic Capitalism's Cullen Roche flagged this heated exchanged between Fama and CNBC's Rick Santelli Santelli asked specifically about the effects of the Fed's quantitative easing program and the risks associated with it. "What they are doing... the effects are being greatly inflated by the accounts," said Fama. "What they've doing is issuing a lot of short-term debt ó $85 billion a month ó and using it to buyback long-term debt with the goal of lowering the interest on long-term debt," he added. "Now they take credit for lowering interest on short-term debt. But in fact what they've been doing should've raised rates on short-term debt." Fama argued that the Fed was not affecting the economy that much. Santelli, however, continued to pursue the idea that there are risks associated with the Fed's actions. "They're basically neutral events," said Fama. "I don't think they do very much." But Santelli kept pursuing this line of questions, and tensions began to rise. "Let me interrupt you," Santelli interrupted at one point. "If it's no big deal, then why don't all central banks just do this to the nth degree and make it a constant day to day week to week event where they purchase what's issued, keep interest low, and just target a low rate forever. Why won't that work then?" "There's so much confusion in what you said it's difficult to answer," responded Fama. Watch the whole exchange here: 
REUTERS/Larry DowningYesterday, The Wall Street Journal's Shayndi Raice†broke the news that Goldman Sachs, after seriously scrutinizing the demand it places on entry-level employees, has begun "discouraging investment banking†analysts from working weekends." "This is a marathon, not a sprint," a Goldman executive told Bloomberg. And after the death of an overworked Bank of America intern, firms have been cajoled into explaining the treatment of their highly-paid subordinates. But that well-known sprint ó the 100+ hour workweeks, the all-nighters, the glop of 5-hour energy in your morning yogurt ó is so canonized in banker culture that it's hard to imagine things changing. Compare investment banking with another top profession with famously long entry-level hours ó medicine. Hours for residents are notoriously brutal. So brutal that in 2003, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education†capped them at 80 a week, mandating days off and preventing residents from having to work more than 24 continuous hours. Of course, residents are still overworked, and one of the reasons is similar to banking: Culture. We attendings all had to do it, so you residents do too, the thinking goes. It's not all that dissimilar from banking. You have the old-timers who have been through the grind and the youngins eager to put in the time to impress. In medicine, a lot of that is couched in language about "patient continuity," the idea that it's somehow better for you to have one tired doctor than two well-rested ones. While hours are down overall†for doctors in the United States, you wouldn't exactly say the paradigm is shifting for physicians-in-training. If it's not going to get easier for medical residents, it's certainly not going to happen for junior bankers.† Think of the societal consequence of an exhausted doctor versus an exhausted banker. The doctor has the capacity to actually kill someone with her sleeplessness (and for this reason, hours have been curtailed). But the government won't step in to "rectify" young banker treatment, as 23-year-olds who make $140,000 a year don't tend to invoke a ton of sympathy. We're left with with Goldman's word and the culture issue. "This is a marathon, not a sprint." Goldman wants to change the perception that†they champion the correlation between hours and output. To which I say,†come on.† Assuming the junior bankers at Goldman are all around the same level of intelligence, and all else equal, an employee who for more hours will be more productive by investment banking standards. Burnout aside, the young banker who works more will generally produce "better" work. This stuff gets noticed. Goldman knows this. The junior bankers ó desperate to differentiate themselves from peers saddled with the same grunt work ó know this too. If Goldman wished to slash hours, pay junior bankers less, but hire more of them they would have done it already. Convene all the task forces you want, but this culture will likely endure. Here's Kevin Roose of New York Magazine, who has a book about young Wall Streeters coming out later this winter, summing it up: For decades, working hard has been part of the basic bargain of being a young worker on Wall Street.†Inside a bank, "staffers" routinely assign complicated projects to young analysts at all hours, and a second shift often begins for young analysts around 7 p.m., when senior bankers leave for the day. Part of this scheduling springs from necessity ó a bank's clients will often demand overnight changes to a pitch book or an Excel model, and that work falls to the lowest workers on the food chain. But it's also about career advancement. Work ethic is currency on Wall Street, and young workers are rewarded for being available, at all hours, to do any task assigned to them. Pay on Wall Street may be declining, but it's still a hot job for elite grads. The culture of long hours isn't going anywhere.
Chris Graythen / Getty ImagesNelson Saiers, the hedge fund manager who tried to make a deal with Banksy†for Hurricane Sandy relief earlier this month, has decided to donate $100,000 to World Vision despite not hearing back from the street artist.† "On the eve of Sandy, I've decided to waive the criterion on Banksy and just donate the money to benefit underprivileged children," Saiers said to Business Insider.† Saiers wrote a letter earlier this month pledging a $100,000 donation to Hurricane Sandy relief if Banksy would make a piece in New York City raising awareness for those victims still affected by the storm. In addition to his personal contribution of $100,000, Saiers says he has received pledges for $142,000 worth of anonymous donations that will also be given to relief efforts if Banksy does eventually respond.† "At this point, the anonymous donors are waiting to see if you will accept the original offer before donating the remaining $142,000. As art is subjective, if you have already completed a piece fulfilling the requirement please contact me," Saiers writes to Banksy on his website.† Banksy is nearing the end of a month-long residency in New York called "Better Out Than In," and his work has appeared everywhere from Staten Island to the Upper West Side.† Even though it doesn't directly raise awareness for Hurricane Sandy victims, a recent Banksy work in Coney Island may turn out to be a moneymaker for a man whose property was damaged by the storm.† "Right now I'm just trying to figure out a way to protect it," Anthony Ruocco said to The New York Post†when a stencil of a robot appeared on the side of his building on Monday. Ruocco has owned the property since the 1980s, but flooding from Sandy has kept the building vacant for the past year.†The Banksy tag could be good news for Ruocco, as Banksy works have been known to fetch as much as $1 million at auction.† Banksy NYThis robot stencil could be good news for the owner of this building in Coney Island, which suffered damage from Hurricane Sandy. At this point, it is unclear whether this was the response Saiers was looking for, though Banksy has shown support for victims of other tragedies since he came to New York. He did†a†stencil of the Twin Towers in Tribeca,†and in Greenpoint he did a parody of†a rejected New York Times op-ed column†complaining about the design of One World Trade Center. † Saiers' original letter to Banksy reads: Screenshot, heybanksy.com He's updated his site with the news:† Heybanksy.com
George Bell has major startup cred ‚Äî he just sold Jumptap to Millennial Media. Before that, he was CEO of Excite, and took the company public. However, his career started in travel documentaries, chasing down reclusive tribes in Africa and looking for endangered species around the globe. In the video below, Bell tells his entire, winding story to finance career site, OneWire. It's an important lesson in starting with what you love. After graduating with a BA in English from Harvard, Bell entered the world of adventure documentaries, traveling the globe as a writer and producer.¬† After ten years and four Emmy Awards, Bell wanted to come home and settle down, but to do so he needed to find a new career. ‚ÄúI was called by a headhunter to apply for the job to be the Editor-in-Chief of¬†Field &amp; Stream Magazine, and I thought I had no business to be an editor of a magazine...and I went to the interview anyway.‚Äù Fortunately, he and the CEO of Times Mirror Magazines hit it off.¬† Bell recalls, ‚ÄúI said I don‚Äôt think I‚Äôm really appropriate for this, but I do need a job.‚Äù Bell offered to write a business plan to take all the company‚Äôs magazine brands into multimedia, and he was hired soon after.¬† ‚ÄúLike a lot of things in life,‚Äù Bell says, ‚Äúthe guy gave me a break.¬† And that was the transition I made from running around the world in shorts and hiking shoes to being on Park Avenue...‚Äù Bell went on to climb the ranks at Times Mirror and ultimately founded the Outdoor Life Network (now NBC Sports).¬† After five years at Times Mirror, Bell‚Äôs adventurous spirit got the best of him again, and he and his family moved out to Silicon Valley, where he ran the internet company, Excite.¬† After serving as CEO for 90 days, they decided to take the company public which, as Bell recalls, was a rollercoaster experience. ‚ÄúI was taking a company public as an English major from Harvard with no graduate school training and no technology background...And by my side...was the 25-year old co-founder of Excite, Joe Kraus, and that was the road show.‚Äù While Bell‚Äôs different careers may seem disjointed, he believes that they are much more closely connected than meets the eye.¬† He insists, that the documentary business ‚Äúwas a hugely important training ground for me as an entrepreneur...to be sitting there with limited amount of time, a limited amount of cash, having pitched an idea, and then recognizing the idea either vanished or changed before your eyes.‚Äù Check out Part I of this awesome interview below, and go to OneWire to¬†watch Part II, in which Bell offers some fascinating and unique advice for aspiring entrepreneurs.¬† You can also¬†subscribe to OneWire‚Äôs Open Door interview series¬†to watch them as soon as they are released. 
YahooAaron Task and I discussed Apple on Daily Ticker this morning. Please see the video below.... Apple reported†solid quarterly results yesterday. The results weren't†fantastic. They didn't blow anyone's mind. But they were solid. And this performance, plus Apple's (AAPL) commentary on its earnings call, helped answer some questions that Apple investors and fans have been asking over the course of this year. First, Apple announced ó in its own Apple way ó that it will be†launching at least one new product category next year: "In terms of new product categories," Apple CEO Tim Cook said, referring to products the company might roll out in 2014, "...I think no one has a set of skills like us and we obviously believe that we can use our skills in building other great products that are in categories that represent areas where we do not participate today." That's as close as Apple is likely every going to get to saying that it will be launching at least one new product category next year. The betting is that this new category will either be an Apple television set ("iTV"?) or Apple smartwatch (or, in a dream world for Apple fans, both). When, exactly, this product category will launch and whether it will be hot enough to contribute materially to Apple's growth are still topics of fierce debate. Second, Apple demonstrated that its iPhone business is still quite healthy, especially in the United States. iPhone sales exceeded expectations, with nearly 34 million sold versus the 31 million consensus estimate. The iPhone is by far Apple's most important and profitable product, and this performance eased fears that Apple has lost its edge in smartphones and that it will be forced to slash prices to stay competitive. (Apple is indeed cutting prices ó the average selling price of iPhones dropped sharply in the quarter, but this is the result of Apple offering cheaper models of phones, not slashing prices on its flagship.) Third, Apple explicitly addressed the "cash question" -- the demand by one very vocal new investor, Carl Icahn, that Apple borrow $150 billion and use it to buy back $150 billion-worth of stock, thus "returning cash to shareholders." Icahn's argument is that this one-time bonanza will unlock the value trapped in Apple's massive $147 billion cash balance and result in an immediate boost in Apple's share price. Other Apple investors, however, myself included, think that†borrowing $150 billion would be a terrible idea, regardless of its impact on Apple's share price. We would rather see Apple increase its buyback and/or dividends over time, rather than loading itself up with debt and buying back stock in one huge lump sum. (Apple's cash balance is mostly stored overseas, so Apple can't use the cash to buy back the $150 billion of stock without paying huge taxes on the "repatriation." Thus Icahn's suggestion that the company borrow it.) Apple did not say exactly what it planned to do on the buyback question. But it did say that, if it chooses to do something different with its cash, it will make this decision early next year. Apple also noted that it is currently returning all of the cash it generates in the United States to shareholders.) So Icahn has prompted Apple to publicly respond to his demands. And Apple, meanwhile, has politely put the famous activist investor off, at least for several more months. Bottom line, Apple answered a lot of important questions on yesterday's call. We still don't know the answer to the most critical questions ó when, exactly, the new product categories will launch and how attractive they will be ó but we'll probably get those answers within the next year. 
Bloomberg TVBofA Merrill Lynch economist Michael Hanson.BofA Merrill Lynch economist Michael Hanson was the only one on the Street to go against the consensus and predict that the Federal Open Market Committee would refrain from announcing a tapering of the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program at its September policy meeting. "The minutes characterized the non-tapering decision at the September meeting as a 'relatively close call' for many FOMC voters," writes Hanson in a preview of tomorrow's FOMC decision. "We doubt the vote will be nearly as close for most members this time around. We expect a slightly more dovish statement in light of the shutdown, but no substantive changes to policy or communications at this meeting." Hanson expands on his preview in a note to clients: Same as it ever was  We do not expect any substantive policy changes at this meeting. A few pieces in the financial press have speculated that the FOMC could increase the pace of purchases at this meeting, but that seems extremely unlikely to us absent a significant risk of recession or outright deflation. Others have suggested possible revisions to the Fedís forward guidance. Support for such changes was not widespread in the September minutes. Moreover, with the markets pushing out the expected date of the first Fed rate hike, there is no urgency to change guidance now. Adding an ìinflation floorî also appears unlikely to us at this meeting, although it may be discussed again.  Time isn't after us  Our base case is for a $10 bn taper in January, but we have a rather flat distribution over possible taper start dates in 1H 2014. With any decision likely postponed for a time, discussion on the FOMC should turn to more conceptual issues. In the minutes we will look for debates over: how much of the high unemployment and low participation rates are cyclical versus structural, how long inflation might remain below-target, and the costs and benefits of continuing QE for several more quarters. As the "framework" for tapering that Chairman Bernanke laid out in the June press conference no longer appears valid, we expect an in-depth discussion of the economic factors that might warrant tapering, and how the Committee could improve communications around both asset purchases and the exit strategy. But we donít anticipate any resolution to these issues at the October meeting. Virtually no one expects the Fed to announce a taper tomorrow, so Hanson is no longer out-of-consensus.
Last week, China and India signed a border pact to ease tensions along the disputed border dubbed the Line of Actual Control (LAC).†† The pact is largely intended to prevent a military conflict, improve communication between the two sides, encourage cooperation on border-related activities such as combating the smuggling of contraband goods, and promote better relations between troops, like joined celebrations of major holidays, reports the Indian Express. Experts aren't too enthused about the pact, viewing it as a temporary fix. "So many of the current problems arise from the line of actual control and both sides have a different understanding which means even after the new agreement is implemented there will still be conflicts and contradictions," Huang Yinghong, assistant professor of Asian and Pacific studies at Sun Yat-sen University, told the Financial Times. Wikimedia Commons China and India went to war in 1962 over disputed territory of Aksai Chin. India claimed this was a part of Kashmir, while China claimed it was a part of Xinjiang. To the east, China and India also fought over the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh. China calls the territory South Tibet. It is widely believed that India's decision to grant the Dalai Lama asylum during the Tibetan uprising against Chinese rule also played a part in the war. After the loss of Aksai Chin, Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru said "not a single blade of grass grows there." But the disputes also extend to other parts. "Currently, India and China dispute over a land area of about 125,000 km2 which can be divided into the eastern, middle and western sectors," write Hongzhou Zhang and Mingjiang Li of International Society for Performance Improvement (ISPI). We've already looked at the eastern sector (Arunachal Pradesh) and the western sector (Aksai Chin). There's also the middle sector: "The middle sector starts from the tri-junction between the Southwestern of Ngari Prefecture, Tibet, La dwags and Punjab to the tri-junction between China, India and Nepal. Its border is about 450 km long, with about 2,000 km2 of land under dispute. The disputed area in the middle sector on the other hand is much smaller, involving only several pockets." Associated Press The death toll of the Sino-Indian war climbed to the thousands for India, and the hundreds for China. Thousands were wounded on both sides, and thousands of Indian soldiers disappeared. Many soldiers on both sides were believed to have died from the extremely harsh weather conditions. China won that war. But Sino-Indian territorial disputes have continued since. Part of the problem is that a clear border has never been identified. India is China's second-largest neighbor and the two are emerging market power houses. Yet, the EU, U.S., Hong Kong, Japan, and South Korea are bigger trading partners to China, than India, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.† Both India and China have pledged to boost two-way trade to $100 billion by 2015. At a time when economic growth in both countries is beginning to slow, improving relations could help support both economies. In a speech delivered at the Central Party School, Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh pointed to "eight specific areas" where he sees opportunities for China and India to cooperate more. Here are the key talking points from his speech via The Hindu: Tied closely to Singh's final point, better ties between the two Asian giants "opens up the possibility that Beijing might use its leverage with Islamabad to shape Pakistanís behavior in a way that might benefit India,"† writes Tanvi Madan of Brookings Institute.  "For Beijing, thereís desire to limit Indiaís burgeoning relationships with the United States and Japan, as well as with other countries in what Beijing considers its backyard." While the latest Sino-Indian border pact is not likely to yield an outright political alliance, better political and cultural ties can only help bolster both economies.
The Wall Street Journal's Devlin Barrett†is reporting part of JP Morgan's $13 billion deal with the Justice Department is at risk of collapsing. Shares were down as much as -0.70%. Barrett: "A key sticking point is whether J.P. Morgan or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. bears ultimate responsibility for liabilities linked to†Washington Mutual†which J.P. Morgan acquired during the financial crisis, said people close to the talks. On Sunday night, lawyers for the bank also offered a proposed deal that could give the bank extra legal protection from criminal probesósomething the Justice Department leadership isn't willing to accept, these people said." Early reports of the settlement focused on settling issues related to allegedly faulty mortgage backed securities issued by Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual, which JPM purchased at the height of the financial crisis. But there had also been disagreements about how Justice would move forward on an ongoing criminal investigation into a JP Morgan mortgage unit in California.† Here's the chart: Yahoo More to come...
Eike Batista has a number of problems, chief among them being that he's running out of cash. Since the Brazilian tycoon's empire started crumbling last year, he's lost 99% of his fortune ‚Äî which once totaled about $34 billion and counting. At that time, had become clear that a number of oil fields belonging to OGX, Batista's flagship company, were not going to produce as expected. That's when Batista and his group of 6 companies (all held together by holding company EBX) started hemorrhaging money. His hope now is to restructure with his creditors and rebuild a leaner business, but that takes money. So what's a billionaire playboy speedboat racer married to a former Playboy model to do? Sell his toys. That's what he does. The reports are everywhere in Brazil ‚Äî boats, planes, you name it. Its all gone into a gigantic firesale for the super rich. Batista's sold off some more serious assets too ‚Äî like stakes in two of his companies MMX and LLX, and he may have to give up some oil tankers as collateral to creditors soon too. But none of that is nearly as fun as say, a 91 year-old hotel in Rio. We did a little research and found out how much (roughly) some of Batista's most luxe toys may have sold for. It's fair to say they won't put a dent in what Batista owes, but hey ‚Äî you gotta stay liquid.
The next time you consider eating Chinese street food you might think twice.† The use of gutter oil it turns out is pretty common. This refers to a process of pulling waste oil from sewers, grease traps, waste from slaughterhouses, reprocessing it and then selling it as cooking oil. These screenshots from a Radio Free Asia (RFA) video via Max Fisher at The Washington Post show a woman in Shenzhen pulling "slop" from a gutter. RFAVideo via YouTube The "slop" then ends up in "processing" plants where it is processed with other animal fat through filtration or boiling. Screenshot from RFA Video via YouTube The oil eventually make its way to "street vendors and hole-in-the-wall restaurants" that use it as "recycled cooking oil." Watch the entire video below:  Gutter oil is reported to account for one-tenth of cooking oil in China, according to experts cited by RFA. Besides being downright disgusting, the oil is also said to contain carcinogens and other toxins. China has been fighting the practice for years. Earlier this month a man from China's Jiangsu province was sentenced to life in prison for making and selling gutter oil, Xinhua reported. China has long battled food safety concerns. But in a country where cooking oil is at a premium, it will likely be a while before officials can effectively crack down on the practice.
It appears that there's another glitch at the Nasdaq with the exchange halting trading in a bunch of indices today because of an issue with being able to disseminate values. [via @CNBC]. From the Nasdaq:† 12:49:20óThe NASDAQ OMX PHLX and NOM will resume trading in NDX, SOX, OSX, and HGX. PHLX will resume trading as of 12:55 PM†.† NOM will resume trading as of 1:00 PM†. Please contact Market Operations at (215) 496-1571 if you have any further questions. 12:18:37ó†NASDAQ OMX PHLX and NOM have halted trading in†SOX, OSX, and†HGX†options because NASDAQ is not disseminating values for the indices. PHLX halted HGX as of 12:14:53, OSX as of 12:14:54, and SOX as of 12:14:55.††NOM halted SOX as of 12:14:57, OSX as of 12:15:00, and HGX as of 12:15:03. If you have any questions please contact Market Operations at 215-496-1571. 12:18:37óNASDAQ OMX is investigating an issue with the dissemination of GIDS 2.0 index data feed. Issue is under investigation will advise. 12:09:11óNASDAQ OMX PHLX and NOM have halted trading in NDX options because††NASDAQ is not disseminating values for the Nasdaq 100 index.††PHLX halted NDX Options as of†12:06:29 and NOM halted NDX Options as of 12:06:49.† †If you have any questions please contact Market Operations at 215-496-1571. According to Eric Husander of market data firm Nanex about†4,500 out of 5,100 Nasdaq indexes stopped updating at 11:53 a.m. ET.† We'll update this post as we get more information.†
As you know, David Einhorn is a sick poker player ‚Äî so we picked up a few tips on the game from him after watching him play last week on Bloomberg TV's 'Poker Night On Wall Street special. David Einhorn (Greenlight Capital), Steve Kuhn (Pine River Investments),¬† John Rogers (Ariel Investments), Jim Chanos (Kynikos Associates),¬† Mario Gabelli (Gabelli Asset Management), and Bill Perkins (Skylar Capital) participated in 'Poker Night On Wall Street', which had a minimum buy-in of $50,000.¬† Greenlight Capital's David Einhorn, who finished in third place in the World Series of Poker in 2012, shares his tips on how to become a better poker player (you can watch the video here).¬† Tip #1: Practice Makes Perfect.¬† Bloomberg Einhorn began playing poker in 2004, had a great time, practiced with a friend for a year and then went on to the world series in 2006, which was his first big tournament. Six years later, he was a world series winner.¬† Tip 2: Think On Your Feet Bloomberg Some poker situations are just simple math problems. Think of the payout in terms of the amount of money you have, the cards you have and the probability of getting the cards you need.¬†
BofA Merrill Lynch equity strategists report data on what their clients are doing in the U.S. stock market on a weekly basis. Last week, BAML's hedge fund clients unloaded the most stock since 2008, while institutions and retail clients were net buyers. Bank of America Merrill LynchIn a note to clients, BAML strategist Savita Subramanian writes: Most selling by hedge funds since 2008  Last week, during which the S&amp;P 500 was up 0.9%, BofAML clients were net sellers of $963mn of US stocks following the prior week‚Äôs large net buying. Net sales were entirely due to hedge funds, whose net sales were the largest since December 2008, and the second-largest in our data history. Despite this, hedge funds still remain small cumulative net buyers year-to-date. Institutional clients were net buyers for the second consecutive week‚Äîbut remain the biggest net sellers YTD‚Äîwhile private clients continued their net buying streak (with purchases of equities in 21 of the last 22 weeks). Private clients are the largest net buyers of equities year-to-date, with $15bn of inflows into ETFs and $2bn of inflows into single stocks. By size segment, large, mid and small caps all saw outflows last week, and only mid caps have seen inflows YTD.  Biggest outflows ever from Consumer Discretionary stocks  Net sales last week were led by Consumer Discretionary, where outflows were the largest in our data history (since 2008). Tech, Financials and Staples also saw large net sales. The largest inflows were into ETFs, while Energy stocks also saw big inflows (largest since July 2012). Industrials currently has the longest net buying trend at four consecutive weeks, while no sector has seen two consecutive weeks of net sales. Based on four-week average flows, which are less volatile, clients continue to prefer defensives over cyclicals: Consumer Staples and Utilities have the longest net buying trends (since mid August), while Energy, Tech and Discretionary have the longest net selling trends (since late September). In the week ended Oct. 23, global investors poured $11.5 billion into U.S. equities. The BAML client data highlighted above covers the period from Oct. 21 to Oct. 25. In a note to clients, Goldman Sachs chief U.S. equity strategist David Kostin said the¬†three questions dominating his discussions with clients¬†about the stock market over the past week were "(1) the forward path of the US equity market; (2) prospective return of the S&amp;P 500 compared with other global stock markets; and (3) investment strategies through year-end after a stellar 22% rally during the first 10 months of 2013." On the first question, Kostin says the debate among Goldman clients can be characterized in three words: "Fama vs. Shiller" (the names of two economists who won this year's Nobel Prize in economics).¬†Read more here ¬ª
The meteoric rise in bitcoin has meant that within the space of four years, one Norwegian manís $27 investment turned into a forgotten $886,000 windfall. Kristoffer Koch invested 150 kroner ($26.60) in 5,000 bitcoins in 2009, after discovering them during the course of writing a thesis on encryption. He promptly forgot about them until widespread media coverage of the anonymous, decentralised, peer-to-peer digital currency in April 2013 jogged his memory. Bitcoins are stored in encrypted wallets secured with a private key, something Koch had forgotten. After eventually working out what the password could be, Koch got a pleasant surprise:† "It said I had 5,000 bitcoins in there. Measuring that in today's rates it's about NOK5m ($886,000)," Koch told NRK. In April 2013, the value of bitcoin peaked at $266 before crashing to a low of $50 soon after. Since then, bitcoin has seen large fluctuations in its value, most recently following the seizure of online drugs marketplace Silk Road, plummeting before jumping $30 in one day to†a high of $197 in October. Koch exchanged one-fifth of his 5,000 bitcoins, generating enough kroner to buy an apartment in Toyen, one of the Norwegian capitalís wealthier areas. Typically bitcoins are bought using traditional currency from a bitcoin "exchanger," although due to strict anti-money-laundering controls, the process can can be tricky. A user can then withdraw those bitcoins by sending them back to an exchanger like Mt Gox, the best-known bitcoin exchange, in return for cash. However, bitcoin is gaining more and more traction within the physical world too. It is now possible to actually spend bitcoins without exchanging them for traditional currency first in a few British pubs, including the Pembury Tavern in Hackney, London, for instance. On 29 October, the world's first bitcoin ATM also went online in Vancouver, Canada, which scans a user's palm before letting them buy or sell bitcoins for cash.† A small group of hardcore users also generate extra bitcoins by "mining" for them ó a process that requires computers to perform the calculations needed to make the digital currency work, in exchange for a share of the built-in inflation. Mining is a time-consuming and expensive endeavour due to the way the currency is designed. Each subsequent bitcoin mined is more complex than the previous one, requiring more computational time and therefore investment through the electricity and computer hardware used. ï In August, Germany recognised bitcoin as a "unit of account," allowing the country to tax users or creators of the digital currency. 
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergPart of why S&amp;P 500 earnings per share has been rising has nothing to do with earnings and everything to do with the amount of shares outstanding in the market. As companies buy back stock, reducing the number of shares outstanding, the ratio of earnings per share naturally increases. Miller Tabak chief economic strategist Andrew Wilkinson gives a simple reminder of why investors love stock buybacks in a note to clients this morning: holding those companies tends to be much more profitable than holding the broader index itself. The S&amp;P 500 Buyback Index is up 250% since December 31, 1999, while the S&amp;P 500 is up only 20%, as the chart above illustrates. The buyback index is comprised of the 100 companies in the S&amp;P 500 with the highest buyback ratio ‚Äî cash paid for the buying-back of common stock divided by the total market capitalization of common stock ‚Äî over the preceding four quarters. Miller TabakGrouping buyback candidates by sector, average buyback and relative performance.Wilkinson breaks down the popularity of share buybacks by sector: The sector that over the period 2011-October 2013 has performed best within the buyback index is the financial sector. Repurchases by 18 financial names within the index has restricted the available pool of equity outstanding to investors by 10%. During that time shares of those companies have increased on average by 71.%. By contrast the next best performing sector is the industrials space, where supply has only been restricted by a mere 1%. Share prices amongst 11% of the buyback index have advanced by 66% since the start of 2011. Four sectors have witnessed a double-digit pace of share buyback (financials, consumer discretionary, basic materials and telecom). However, the telecommunication services sector, which is represented by only one company, is the worst performer within the sector space (but not across companies). The average gain over this near-three-year period amongst these sectors is 50% while the S&amp;P 500 index is higher by 40%. Only IT and telecom failed to match the gain of the broad S&amp;P 500 index. With the exception of the sole company purporting to represent the telecom sector, each group beat the overall sector in terms of performance. The only close shave was the discretionary sector where buyback names beat the group of non-buyback companies by the narrowest margin. "One available ETF that attempts to isolate the performance of companies reducing the available supply of shares outstanding is the PowerShares Buyback Achievers (Ticker: PKW)," says Wilkinson. "While the S&amp;P buyback index has increased by 57% over the near-three year period under our microscope, this exchange traded fund has risen in value by 54%."
Goldman Sachs will likely collect $20 million in fees from the Twitter IPO, the Wall Street Journal's Telis Demos reports. That would be double the amount of any of the other banks involved in the deal. Sources told the Journal that Goldman will earn 38.5% of the fees. From the Journal: No other bank would earn more than $10 million if the deal is for $1.6 billion, the people said.†Morgan Stanley†is set to get 18% of the fees, which translates into $9.4 million.†J.P. Morgan Chase†is in line for 15%, and Bank of America Merrill Lynch and†Deutsche Bank†are slated for 8% each, the people familiar with the matter said. Boutique advisor Allen &amp; Co. is to earn 7%, and Code Advisors 0.5%. Those figures are based on the deal's $17 to $20-a-share price range and if the underwriters sell the maximum number of shares, according to the Journal. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal ª
YouTube/America's CupThe World Bank is out with its annual ranking of countries with the most business-friendly climates. On the overall ranking, which measures things like taxes and construction and electricity costs, the U.S. scored at No. 4, which is where it was last year. We were interested in one category in particular: where it's easiest to start a business. The World Bank measures this according to four components: number of procedures, time, cost as a percent of income per capita, and minimum capital required. The top 10 is a little bit wacky because it includes developing countries where "start-up" means something different than it does here. But we were surprised to find where the World Bank †ranks America. You would think, given its "startup culture," it would be No. 1. Not even close.† Here's the top-ranked developed nations for ease of starting a business: That's right. The U.S. only ranks 11th in a category you'd think it would own. But the World Bank says it takes on average six different "procedures," five days, and costs 1.5% of U.S. income per capita, or about $750, to start a business here. Compare that with New Zealand, where there is only one "procedure" required, requiring less than a full day's work and costing about $150. (Neither country's government officially requires minimum capital.)† Of course, the Kiwis are well aware of their No. 1 status. And comparing their official "starting a business"†site to America's†does reveal some striking differences. For instance, while New Zealand only has three different types of business registrations ó sole trader, partnership, and company ó the U.S. has at least six. And in the U.S., you're basically nudged into getting a start-up loan, which may have the perverse effect of raising upfront costs. New Zealand doesn't seem to do this.†
REUTERS/Edgar SuA sex worker talks to a man outside a hotel in the Geylang red light district in Singapore, February 8, 2013.Everyone has their little indulgences. For some, it's their morning Starbucks fix or a $2000 handbag. For others, it's hookers and blackjack.¬† And it's the latter that are most representative of consumer spending in the US economy, according to Andrew Zatlin of South Bay Research. Zatlin's one-man research consultancy based out of California, whose highly accurate, data-driven methods of forecasting jobs numbers have earned the title of¬†'The Moneyball of Economics' by the Wall Street Journal.¬† One of South Bay's products is the Vice Index, which according to Zatlin has an almost 90% statistical correlation with personal consumer spending and leads it by 4 months. The index measures spending on gambling and escorts, which, according to Zatlin, is a highly sensitive barometer for the 'wealth effect', or how rich we're feeling at any given time.¬† Zatlin's data for the index goes back 15 years and South Bay has been calculating the index for the last 2 years.¬†  And this year, the index has shown a steady downward trend.¬† "We were seeing it even before the government shutdown, and it's continued to trend downward recently," said Zatlin to Business Insider,¬†"In¬†Q1 of this year, we saw prices of escorts rose 15% at the high end but not at the middle or low end, which proved that the top 1% was doing fine, but not everyone else. This was contrary to the media's narrative of a "booming" economy."¬†¬† Zatlin would not disclose his sources and methodology for computing escort services pricing. "During events like the furlough and Sandy you had escorts saying that their phones had stopped ringing. Now I'm not saying that government workers are clients for prostitutes, but when you have 800,000 people out of a job, that affects spending."  According to Zatlin, spending on these vices is part of the "underground economy", which makes up anywhere between 10-15% of the economy in the United States and is, understandably, unaccounted for in official statistics. But this data, if you can find it, is extraordinarily representative of consumer spending. "This part of the economy is based purely on market forces," he noted. "It's all cash-driven and there are almost no barriers to entry. Most importantly, it's purely conspicuous consumption. People spend on vices when they feel like there's a hole burning in their pockets. If you're going to Atlantic City, you're going to hope to win, but you're probably prepared to lose. It's literally throwing money away." Because of this, vices are the first thing people stop spending on when times are bad, which makes it a good way to measure the "wealth effect", or how secure people are feeling about their wealth. ¬† Spending on luxury goods is a similar 'canary in the coal-mine' indicator, and also a good measure of conspicuous consumption. However, Zatlin believes vice spending is more demographically and socio-economically representative. Only the 1% can buy a yacht, but spending on escorts can range from the very high end to "low-end", and can provide a geographically and socio-economically diverse set of data points.¬† More importantly, Zatlin believes the Vice Index has more relevance than many others that were formulated decades ago.¬† "Everyone smirks when they hear about this, but the regular indices are all using data points that are old, and in many cases, not representative of today's economy."¬†
M. Woodruff/Business InsiderRankings of cities measuring "livability" or "quality of life" are a staple of the Internet. Livability, however, is very much in the eye of the beholder. Areavibes.com provides a typical such livability metric. Cities are rated by a combination of factors ‚Äì proximity to amenities, cost of living, crime rates, educational facilities, the local labor market, the housing market, and weather. Click here to jump right to the underrated cities for 20-somethings &gt;&gt; The AreaVibes metric seems like it would be helpful to an affluent, mid-career professional with a couple of kids in school who is looking to buy a house and put down roots. This ranking is completely useless to me. I am a somewhat reckless, single 20-something trying to start a career. Buying a house, settling down, and worrying about what school district I live in are completely alien concepts. I am far more interested in meeting interesting people and experiencing all that life has to offer. To help me decide where I and other similarly inclined members of my generation should live, I have put together a ranking of my own: the Shiftless Millennial City Index (SMCI). This index is based on amount of parkland, number of large music venues per capita, number of bars per capita, how many people are single, access to public transportation, and cost of living. (You can read more about the methodology here). We can see which cities are the most underrated by AreaVibes by subtracting SMCI rankings from AreaVibes rankings for the 88 cities ranked by AreaVibes with populations of at least 200,000 ‚Äî¬†the bigger the difference, the more underrated the city. This gives us an idea of some of the places where shiftless millennials should live.
Wikimedia CommonsPlano, Texas: Not my cup of teaIn our ranking of the 20 most underrated cities for 20-somethings, we compared a livability ranking from AreaVibes.com to a ranking system of our own, the Shiftless Millennial City Index. Here's how we did this comparison. Click here to jump right to the ranking &gt;&gt; The AreaVibes ranking system, like any complex metric, has a large element of subjectivity. Someone decided what variables to use, how to score them, and how to weigh them to get the overall composite livability index. Although each of the component numbers is objective, the way in which the numbers are put together and used is not. Looking at the 88 cities with populations greater than 200,000 ranked by AreaVibes, we see a lot of affluent cities in the South and Southwest performing very well, with the metropolises of the Northeast and Upper Midwest ranking quite poorly. Plano, TX is apparently the best big city in America; New York is all the way down at 64th. The AreaVibes ranking seems much better suited to someone a bit further along in their life development than I am. I'm a somewhat reckless, single 20-something trying to start a career. Buying a house, settling down, and worrying about what school district I live in are completely alien concepts.¬†So, I built the Shiftless Millennial City Index (SMCI) to better help me figure out where I should live. Here are the factors that went into the SMCI: Parks¬†‚Äî A thriving park system is essential to a livable city. As much as I love urban living, I do need, from time to time, to reconnect with nature, or at least a heavily curated version of nature. Parks are also emblematic of a larger community spirit. Parks are places where people go together to relax, congregate, and just enjoy life. 15% of the SMCI consists of the percentage of a city's land area dedicated to parkland, gathered from The Trust for Public Land's 2012 ‚ÄúCity Park Facts‚Äù report.[i] Music/Event Venues¬†‚Äî Shiftless millennials love going to shows. That means a city with a large number of venues, relative to its population, for concerts and other events is ideal. To get a rough idea of the number of large venues near a city, I looked for venues listed on TicketMaster.com for each of the studied cities, and adjusted the number based on the population of the city. This component makes up 10% of the SMCI. Bars¬†‚Äî Shiftless millennials also love drinking in groups. Bars per capita is thus a component of the SMCI. I used a similar protocol as with event venues ‚Äî¬†I went to Yelp.com, searched for bars near each of the studied cities, and noted the number of results. Bars per capita makes up 15% of the SMCI. Single People¬†‚Äî Now that we've identified some places to go and things to do, we need to find people with whom we can enjoy these things. As a measure of the prevalence of single folks in a city, we take the percentage of the population that's never been married, courtesy of the Missouri Census Data Center. As finding good people to mingle with is a very important goal for the shiftless millennial, this component accounts for 25% of the SMCI. Public Transportation¬†‚Äî¬†To get to our parks and venues and dates, shiftless millennials need a way to get around. As a generation, we are far fonder of public transit and walking, and less enthusiastic about driving, than our parents and grandparents. For a snapshot of the transit use in a city, we use the percentage of the population that commutes using public transportation, again coming from the Missouri Census Data Center, and this measure gives us 15% of the SMCI. Cost of Living¬†‚Äî¬†Shiftless millennials are often poor, and so cost of living is the final component of the SMCI. I gathered CoL index data for each city from real estate analysis site Sperling's Best Places (www.bestplaces.net). Cost of Living makes up 20% of the SMCI. To determine the SMCI for each city, we first take each of the above measures and turn it into an index by taking each city's value, dividing by the average value for that measure, and then multiplying by 100[ii]. For example, Mesa, AZ has about 29 Yelp-rated bars per 10,000 residents, compared to the average among the 88 cities of about 22.3 bars per 10,000 residents, giving Mesa a Yelp Bar Index of (29/22.3)*100 = 130. This index is handy for a couple reasons.¬†First, it nicely represents each measure as a percentage of the average, so Mesa has 30% more bars per 10,000 residents than the average city in this study. Second, this index is ‚Äúunit-less,‚Äù and all of the indexes are on the same scale, so we can nicely combine our different components into the overall SMCI ‚Äî¬†we don't have to worry about what it means to add bars per capita to the percent of a city's land area dedicated to parks. To get the full SMCI, we take a weighted average of the component indexes, using the weights outlined above. We then ranked the cities based on their SMCI's, and plotted our rankings against the AreaVibes rankings: Andy Kiersz/Business Insider The further to the left a city is, the better its AreaVibes ranking. The further down a city is, the better its Shiftless Millennial ranking.¬†So, for example, Fremont, CA did very well on both ranking systems ‚Äì Areavibes ranked it 5th, and it's the 8th best city for a shiftless millennial.  The most interesting feature of this graph are the two large, semi-coherent blobs of cities in the upper left and lower right corners. The upper left cities are cities that scored well on the AreaVibes ranking, but poorly on the SMCI ranking. Many of these cities are sunbelt enclaves. The lower right cities are those that I find underrated by AreaVibes ‚Äî¬†they had low AreaVibes scores, but ranked very well with my metric. These are predominantly northern and coastal cities, which I much prefer over the South, so my metric did a very nice job of assessing cities I would like to live in. The underrated cities are those far down and to the right on the chart, with the largest differences between AreaVibes rankings and SMCI rankings. [i]¬†¬†¬† Three of the cities ‚Äî¬†Montgomery, AL; Shreveport, LA; and Akron, OH, were not included in the TPL report. For these cities, the park index is omitted, and the weights of the other components are adjusted accordingly. [ii]¬†¬† Cost of Living is an exception here ‚Äî¬†first, I used a measure that was already an index, so no division was necessary. Second, and more importantly, for all of our other components, the higher the index, the better the city. A higher park index means more parks, a higher singles index means more single people. Cost of Living is the opposite ‚Äì the higher the cost of living, the less desirable the city. To deal with this, I took a scaled reciprocal of the CoL index. This has the effect of translating low CoL indexes into higher scores and vice versa ‚Äî¬†a city with a really low CoL index of 50 would end up with a score of 200; a city with a really high CoL index of 150 would end up with a score of about 67.
REUTERS/Alvin Baez Puerto Ricans Ruth Olivo (L) and Celia Ramirez (2nd R) say goodbye to relatives as they arrive at Luis Munoz Marin Airport to emigrate to the mainland United States, in San Juan, September 10, 2013.Puerto Rico is in serious trouble. The economy has been in and out of recession, and at 13.5%, its unemployment rate is painfully high. Last week, The Economist compared the island's economic crisis to the situation to Greece as the country undergoes further rounds of austerity.¬† Puerto Rico's story is an important one, and it matters more than many Americans can appreciate. We answer the seven basic questions you might have about Puerto Rico: It's recently become very expensive for Puerto Rico to borrow money. Puerto Rico's bonds are trading at about 60 cents on the dollar, and yields have climbed above 9%, according to Reuters. They're rated just above investment grade with a negative outlook. This is much higher than what the states face. That's never good, but it's really bad for Puerto Rico, which is unusually dependent on deficit financing, meaning borrowing money to pay the bills. Because the island's securities are tax exempt, bond investors around the world and especially in the U.S. have for years catered to the island's ¬†debt financing habit. In a way. People are now saying Puerto Rico could default. However, unlike Detroit, it cannot file for Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy protection ‚Äî the law treats it like a U.S. state.¬† So the specter of a federal bailout is now being raised. Seriously. Puerto Rico's banks already received bailout funds 2010. Only last week¬†was Banco Popular, the island's largest financial institution, able to ask the Fed whether it was eligible to exit TARP.¬† The island itself was in talks¬†to get a bailout in 2009.¬† The Puerto Rican economy has been in and out of recession since 2006, when¬†an earlier fiscal crunch caused San Juan to shut down (yup, they're an American territory alright). That was also the same year federal tax breaks for an experiment designed to pump up the island's manufacturing sector expired. But the island has never been terribly competitive. The island's labor force participation hovers around 40%, and the public sector accounts for 20% of all employment. The Great Recession did not help matters. Three Puerto Rican banks went under as the world's travelers couldn't afford to vacation to the island nation. Everything came to a head this summer as unemployment hit a 2-year high and an index measuring Puerto Rican economic activity shrank 5.4% in August, the biggest drop since 2010, Bloomberg's Michelle Kaske says.¬† That helped send bond yields spiking to record highs, triggering the current crisis. Maybe. If you live in the United States, the chances that you or someone you know have pensions exposed¬† to Puerto Rican debt are high. As we mentioned, Puerto Rico's tax-exempt bonds have (until now) been very popular with U.S. muni funds: about three-quarters of them hold Puerto Rican securities. And we don't even know the extent of the exposure within those funds: Bond Buyer reported last week the SEC was checking around to see copies of many muni funds' most recent stress tests.¬† So if Puerto Rico is unable to meet its obligations, it's likely you or someone you know is going to lose money. Muni funds have already had their worst year ever, in part because of the Puerto Rican situation. For now, Washington says it is "monitoring the situation."¬† In Puerto Rico itself, there have been successive administrations who have attempted to cut and tax the island out of default danger. Current Governor Alejandro Garc√≠a Padilla has successfully passed legislation that includes reinstating higher corporate tax rates, and imposing a new gross receipts tax.¬† He also raised the retirement age for state workers, upped pension contributions, and cut summer and Christmas bonuses. That's actually a lot more than what some other states facing pensions crises, like Illinois, have done... ¬† Unfortunately, Puerto Rico does not have an economic engine like Chicago to keep it afloat. So, now we have to wait and see if the island can stomach austerity socially and economically.¬† And there are already signs it is struggling to do so: in the past few years, tens of thousands of people have left the island for better opportunities, mostly coming to the U.S. We reported yesterday how the most recent round of cuts has caused a spike in theft of school property. Some have also blamed a recent, deadly bacterial outbreak at a public hospital on lack of necessary funds. ¬† Garc√≠a Padilla¬†administration members have been aggressively making their case to investors and business leaders stateside ‚Äî just this last week, the country's economic development minister came to New York to meet with executives at places like BlackRock and Pfizer ‚Äî ¬†that its fiscal reforms are on track. If you see any cracks emerge on this united front, you'll know the worst has only just begun.
Brian Kersey/Getty ImagesJCPenney ex-CEO Ron Johnson is lashing out at his critics after†more than a year of being beaten up in the press and wholly blamed for the retailer's spiraling revenue losses. Johnson told Forbes reporter Barbara Thau via email that criticisms of his tenure at JCPenney have been "lacking in depth, largely inaccurate and surprisingly uninformed." Johnson declined to elaborate, however, saying it's premature to discuss his tenure, Thau reported. Johnson was fired in April after less than two years at the helm of the department store. His decision to change the store's pricing strategy has been blamed for the chain's catastrophic losses, which haven't stopped spiraling since he left.† In the most recent quarter, JCPenney posted a net loss of $586 million, or $2.66 a share, and same-store sales were down about 12% from the previous year.
Comments made by European Central Bank governing council member Ewald Nowotny and reported by MNI have sent the euro on a tear this morning. According to MNI, Nowotny said that while he doesn't welcome the recent appreciation in the euro, policymakers "have to live with" it, as ECB does not have any tools to combat it. Nowotny said there was no realistic prospect of the ECB lowering its benchmark refinancing rate or deposit rate. The euro is trading just north of $1.38, versus levels closer to $1.3750 before Nowotny's comments hit the tape. The currency has risen 8% against the U.S. dollar since July 9, when selling induced by Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke's June 19 press conference ‚Äî in which he hinted at tapering quantitative easing, causing strength in the dollar ‚Äî culminated. Now, the strength of the euro has become one of the hottest topics on Wall Street. Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale global strategist Kit Juckes says the reason¬†forecasters have been caught off guard by the move is that "we didn‚Äôt expect that the market would be more hawkish about¬†ECB than Fed policy at a time when the euro area economy is barely growing, nor did we¬†expect to see the endless grind of Spanish bond out-performance go quite this far." Thinkorswim
The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index, a popular measure that tracks how economic data progress relative to the consensus forecasts of Wall Street economists, has been headed straight down since October 1, and is close to going negative. Below is a full description of the indicator, from Bloomberg: The Citigroup Economic Surprise Indices are objective and quantitative measures of economic news. They are defined as weighted historical standard deviations of data surprises (actual releases vs Bloomberg survey median). A positive reading of the Economic Surprise Index suggests that economic releases have on balance [been] beating consensus. The indices are calculated daily in a rolling three-month window. The weights of economic indicators are derived from relative high-frequency spot FX impacts of 1 standard deviation data surprises. The indices also employ a time decay function to replicate the limited memory of markets. The index sits at 5.4 today, well below the 53.3 reading registered on the first day of the month. A few datapoints that have surprised to the downside, dragging this measure down: Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
This morning Goldman Sachs announced that it had done some soul-searching (through a task force) and it's going to let its young bankers have their weekends. On Wall Street, this is an incredibly generous policy, and what's more ‚Äî this is awesome for NYC nightlife. Young bankers in their first few years generally resign themselves to being stuck within the walls of their offices Saturday and Sunday, watching as the glorious city they live in moves on below without them. Sure, some go out at night, but they pay for it in the morning. And the partiers are actually fewer and farther between than banker lore would have you think ‚Äî they just happen to make quite a showing. What Goldman is saying to young bankers now is ‚Äî let loose, get your sleep, see your friends. Play. I can only imagine their elation. New York City's nightlife scene should be pretty pumped as well. Yes, it's only one bank, yes, it's only a few whipper snappers, but think about this. Now those whipper snappers are going to have more free time to do the things they think Wall Street bankers are supposed to do (if they're not killing themselves trying to do it already). They can skip the Seamless Web delivery on a late Friday night and the quick pit stop at their neighborhood watering hole at 4 am on a Saturday before they get home from the office. (As you know, no sober person wants to be taking their first drink at that hour, surrounded by people who've been at it with gusto since midnight.) No, instead these young Goldmanites can have dinners at the hottest restaurants, make friends with some promoters and get into clubs like Catch, Provocateur, etc., they can go to a ridiculous day-brunch party, and maybe actually do some shopping for themselves and acquire some sense of style. Who knows, maybe they'll get some culture at a museum or catch some live music while they're at it too? Even better, since Goldman's a leader on Wall Street, maybe other banks will follow suit. Now, if you think this news is just a trifle consider this ‚Äî Back in 2007 and 2008 when the housing market crashed, Lehman Brothers fell, and everything went to crap, New York nightlife was completely different. West 27th Street was famously lined with expensive bottle-service clubs dominated by cool kids, foreigners, models, and more. A lot of those people didn't pay for anything ‚Äî a fat chunk of that luxury was financed by finance, by Wall Street. When Wall Street went down, West 27th Street fell shortly after. New York City got more sane, and partying was less opulent. It was a reflection of the times, but it hurt a lot of businesses. You'll remember that¬† for every job that's gained or lost on Wall Street, two are gained or lost in NYC. So, to all the too-cool kids, banker bro haters, and hipsters, to you I say ‚Äî don't worry about this. If a banker happens to wander into Output or Le Bain to hang out with you, it's because they want to be there. Be kind to them (if they're not bothering anyone) ‚Äî they mostly mean well. Honest.¬† And to the hipsters out in Bushwick, you won't even notice this happening, most of these young Goldmanites will confine themselves to Manhattan, maybe North Williamsburg. You're totally safe.
REUTERS/Max RossiThe Conference Board has just released its monthly consumer confidence measure, and it was a big miss. The measure dropped to 71.2 in October, down from 79.7 and missing economist expectations of 75.0. ¬†‚ÄúConsumer confidence deteriorated considerably as the federal government shutdown and debt-ceiling crisis took a particularly large toll on consumers‚Äô expectations," Conference Board Director Lynn Franco said in a statement.  "Similar declines in confidence were experienced during the payroll tax hike earlier this year, the fiscal cliff discussions in late 2012, and the government shutdown in 1995/1996. However, given the temporary nature of the current resolution, confidence is likely to remain volatile for the next several months.‚Äù Respondents expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months dropped to 16% from 20.6%, but those expecting conditions to worsen jumped to 17.5% from 10.3%, according to the report. Here's the full release from the Conference Board: The Conference Board¬†Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ, which had declined moderately in September, decreased sharply in October. The Index now stands at 71.2 (1985=100), down from 80.2 in September. The Present Situation Index decreased to 70.7 from 73.5. The Expectations Index fell to 71.5 from 84.7 last month. The monthly¬†Consumer Confidence Survey¬Æ, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was October 17. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board: ‚ÄúConsumer confidence deteriorated considerably as the federal government shutdown and debt-ceiling crisis took a particularly large toll on consumers‚Äô expectations. Similar declines in confidence were experienced during the payroll tax hike earlier this year, the fiscal cliff discussions in late 2012, and the government shutdown in 1995/1996. However, given the temporary nature of the current resolution, confidence is likely to remain volatile for the next several months.‚Äù Consumers‚Äô assessment of current conditions declined moderately. Those claiming business conditions are ‚Äúgood‚Äù decreased to 19.0 percent from 20.7 percent, however, those claiming business conditions are ‚Äúbad‚Äù edged down to 23.0 percent from 23.9 percent. Consumers‚Äô appraisal of the job market was less favorable than last month. Those saying jobs are ‚Äúplentiful‚Äù was virtually unchanged at 11.3 percent from 11.4 percent, while those saying jobs are ‚Äúhard to get‚Äù increased to 35.8 percent from 33.6 percent. Consumers‚Äô expectations, which had softened in September, decreased sharply in October. Those expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months fell to 16.0 percent from 20.6 percent, while those expecting business conditions to worsen increased to 17.5 percent from 10.3 percent. Consumers‚Äô outlook for the labor market was also more pessimistic. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead decreased to 15.3 percent from 16.1 percent, while those anticipating fewer jobs increased to 22.7 percent from 19.1 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase rose to 15.8 percent from 15.1 percent, however, those expecting a decrease rose to 15.4 percent from 13.9 percent.¬†
The CEO was on Bloomberg TV and the company held a conference call. Management went the whole nine yards. This morning the stock is up 12%, after plummeting 63% since Muddy Waters' call. But Muddy Waters and its CEO Carson Block isn't done yet. This morning it released a report called 'NQ‚Äôs Top Ten Lies Since Friday' for all the doubters out there. The report hits on everything from NQ's complex network of shell companies, its relationship with its 2nd and 3rd largest customers (which Muddy Waters alleges basically don't exist), its assets, market share, technology, and of course its financial statements. A few points would be inside baseball if you haven't been watching the story closely, but there are also a few points/accusations (whichever you prefer) here that anyone could understand. Like this one: Lie #3: YDT‚Äôs SAIC financials, which show revenue that is a fraction of what would be required for NQ to generate $20.2 million in revenue through YDT, are reported net of payments to NQ. Our report anticipated the lie that YDT‚Äôs financial statements show net revenue, as opposed to gross. NQ was hoping that investors would not read the report clearly enough to read the proof that the sales number is a gross number. Or this one: Lie #9: NQ is not responsible for enormously overstating its market share. On the call, NQ fumbled quite a bit when challenged about our survey results that show it has only 1.4% market share. However, it clearly tried to distance itself from the huge overstatements of market share. We do not believe NQ can evade liability for these statements ‚Äì it is clear to us that NQ deliberately materially misrepresented market share to investors, regardless of whether the estimates came from third parties that NQ engaged. And this one: Lie #5: Muddy Waters believes there are no problems with NQ‚Äôs SAIC financials. On pp.32-33 and in Appendix Bof our initial report, we describe in detail the numerous signs of fraud present in NQ‚Äôs various SAIC financial statements, including those of recently acquired companies FL Mobile and Nation Sky . Matt Mathison attempted to revise very recent history. Matt Mathison on conference call: ‚Äú[Muddy Waters] said that NQ‚Äôs SAIC filings match appropriately with US GAAP. So I don‚Äôt think there‚Äôs anything to address there.‚Äù Matt Mathison should have known that what he said about our discussion of NQ‚Äôs financials was not accurate. Your move, NQ.
The retailer put out a press release this morning detailing plans to transform the business. Sears says that it's considering spinning off its Lands' End business and Sears Auto Center business. † Here's an excerpt from the release:† We are evaluating separating both our Lands' End business and Sears Auto Center ("SAC") business.† We believe separating the management of these two businesses from Sears Holdings would allow them to pursue their own strategic opportunities, optimize their capital structures, attract talent, and allocate capital in a more focused manner while bringing our business unit structure to life outside of the Sears Holdings portfolio. Regarding Lands' End, we believe that Lands' End is an iconic brand with the potential to become a more global brand, and we presently anticipate that any separation, if pursued, would not be structured as a sale but rather through a transaction that would allow existing shareholders the opportunity to benefit from the significant potential for value creation over the long term.† Here's the stock chart:† Google Finance Here's the full release:† HOFFMAN ESTATES, Ill.,†Oct. 29, 2013†/PRNewswire/ -- Today, we ("Sears Holdings Corporation," "Holdings,"† "us," "our," or the "Company") (Nasdaq: SHLD) are announcing a number of actions intended to improve our financial flexibility and accelerate our transformation into a leading Integrated Retailer that fosters relationships with members through our†Shop Your Way†platform.†We also are providing an update on our third quarter operating performance. † First, Sears Canada announced today the sale of five store leases to Cadillac Fairview Corporation Limited for total consideration of†$400 million†Canadian.† The transaction is expected to close in the next ten business days. With respect to this transaction,†Edward S. Lampert, Sears Holdings' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said "We are very supportive of Sears Canada's actions to create value.† It is clear that the Canadian market is becoming†more competitive, but also more lucrative for those who can compete effectively.† We believe that Sears Canada is well positioned to create value for its shareholders through a combination of operating performance improvements, business portfolio actions and leveraging its real estate footprint working with its mall and other partners."† Holdings will work with the board and management of Sears Canada with a goal of increasing the value of our 51% interest and realizing significant cash proceeds to support our transformation and to create value for our shareholders. "The current market value of our 51% interest in Sears Canada is over†$675 million. We believe that the maximization of value of our stake in Sears Canada will improve our financial position and our ability to execute on our strategic transformation," said Mr. Lampert. Second, with regard to our domestic operations, we will continue to evaluate our stores in the context of our Integrated Retail strategy. As we have done over the past several years, we will review each location, including leased locations that are set to expire, and decide whether or not to renew such leases. We expect to improve our financial performance by removing unprofitable locations, and redeploying the capital tied up in those locations, while sharpening our focus around existing Sears and Kmart stores that have higher levels of profitability.† We believe this will be accomplished without incurring significant closed store lease liabilities due to the nature of our leases and the approach we are taking to refine our portfolio to position us as a more profitable company that leverages our stores as part of our overarching Integrated Retail vision. Third, we seek to accelerate our transformation by becoming a more focused company that is easier to understand and to manage not just from the standpoint of our store portfolio but also from the standpoint of our portfolio of businesses. We are evaluating separating both our Lands' End business and Sears Auto Center ("SAC") business.† We believe separating the management of these two businesses from Sears Holdings would allow them to pursue their own strategic opportunities, optimize their capital structures, attract talent, and allocate capital in a more focused manner while bringing our business unit structure to life outside of the Sears Holdings portfolio. Regarding Lands' End, we believe that Lands' End is an iconic brand with the potential to become a more global brand, and we presently anticipate that any separation, if pursued, would not be structured as a sale but rather through a transaction that would allow existing shareholders the opportunity to benefit from the significant potential for value creation over the long term.† Regarding Sears Auto Centers, we believe that SAC has a unique national footprint that can be leveraged to create significant value. We have begun the repositioning of the business around non-tire related services as tire margins have been compressed industry-wide over the past several years, leveraging the store footprint, the number of service bays and our auto technicians.† We are in the process of evaluating strategic alternatives for the business to maximize its value for our shareholders. Finally, Sears Holdings announced an update regarding its operating performance for the third quarter ending†November 2, 2013.† Comparable store sales for the twelve-week period ended†October 26, 2013declined 3.7%, with a decline of 4.8% for Sears Domestic stores and 2.6% for Kmart stores. Reflecting the challenging overall economic and highly competitive environment, and higher Shop Your Way ("SYW") Rewards expense similar to our experience in the second quarter ended on†August 3, 2013†(as we accelerate our SYW promotional activity to increase engagement with our members), the Company expects third quarter Adjusted EBITDA to be in an approximate range of between negative†$250 million to $300 million†versus the prior year's quarter Adjusted EBITDA of negative†$156 million, which consisted of negative†$164 million†for SHC Domestic and positive†$8 million†for Sears Canada.† Despite the increased operating loss, we have managed our inventory levels and capital expenditures more efficiently to mitigate the impact of this loss on our cash flow. †We continue to see improvement in our SYW Rewards member performance metrics, including higher member penetration, higher points redemptions and our more engaged members shopping more frequently.† With respect to our previously announced objectives, as of this update, we have generated approximately†$700 million†of asset monetization proceeds and are on track to reduce inventory at peak, year over year, by†$500 million†as well as reduce fixed expenses by†$200 million†for the full year. †In addition, we successfully completed a$1.0 billion, 5-year term loan. Adjusted EBITDA was determined as follows: Millions Q3 2013 Range Q3 2012 ï†expected net loss attributable to Holdings' shareholders $(532) $(582) $(498) ï†plus domestic pension settlements and expense not included in Adjusted EBITDA 44 44 87 ï†plus income statement line items not included in EBITDA consisting of noncontrolling interest, income taxes, interest expense, interest and investment income, other income/loss, depreciation expense and gain on sales of assets through October 21, 2013 238 238 255 Adjusted EBITDA † † † † † † † † † Third Quarter Earnings Release † The company currently plans to release financial results for its fiscal 2013 third quarter on or aboutNovember 21, 2013, before the market opens. † Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains forward-looking statements, including with respect to our transformation through our Integrated Retail strategy, Sears Canada's business and real estate, possible transactions discussed elsewhere in this press release, our expectations for the third quarter of fiscal 2013, and our objectives with respect to the generation of additional liquidity. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: our ability to offer merchandise and services that our customers want, including our proprietary brand products; our ability to successfully implement our Integrated Retail strategy; Sears Canada's ability to complete the announced transaction for the sale of certain of†its stores; competitive conditions in the retail and related services industries; worldwide economic conditions and business uncertainty, including the availability of consumer and commercial credit, changes in consumer confidence and spending, the impact of rising fuel prices, and changes in vendor relationships; our ability to complete possible transactions with respect to Lands' End, Sears Auto Centers and/or our interest in Sears Canada on terms that are acceptable to us, on intended timetables or at all and the impact of the evaluation and/or completion of those transactions on our other businesses; the potential impact on our business and our relationships from the announcements contained in this press release; our ability to successfully achieve our plans to generate liquidity, reduce inventory and reduce fixed costs; conditions and possible limits on our access to capital markets and other financing sources; vendors' lack of willingness to provide acceptable payment terms or otherwise restricting financing to purchase inventory or services; the impact of seasonal buying patterns, including seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions, which are difficult to forecast with certainty; our dependence on sources outside†the United States†for significant amounts of our merchandise; our extensive reliance on computer systems, including legacy systems, to implement our integrated retail strategy, process transactions, summarize results and manage our business, which may be subject to disruptions or security breaches; our reliance on third parties to provide us with services in connection with the administration of certain aspects of our business and the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge of such parties; impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets or fixed-asset impairment for long-lived assets; our ability to attract, motivate and retain key executives and other associates; our ability to protect or preserve the image of our brands; the outcome of pending and/or future legal proceedings, including product liability claims and proceedings with respect to which the parties have reached a preliminary settlement; and the timing and amount of required pension plan funding; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We intend the forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time made and do not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The S&amp;P Case-Shiller home price index climbed 0.93% on the month in August. Home prices were up 12.82% on the year. Home prices posted their highest annual increase since February 2006, and all 20 cities posted year-over-year gains in home prices. Economists do however expect home prices to cool going forward. Business Insider/S&P Case-Shiller
Pieter TaselarPieter TaselaarPieter Taselaar and Thijs Hovers have carved out a reputation as one of the top-performing equity hedge fund management teams focused on European markets. With net-of-fee returns dramatically exceeding the MSCI Euro index on a 1,3 and 5-year basis, their Lucerne Capital Fund has delivered average returns in excess of 13% to investors since inception in 2002. The successful partnership between Taselaar and Hovers began at ABN AMRO in the Netherlands where they held senior trading and research positions, respectively. With a process for identifying opportunities in European stocks that extends to the global markets they compete in, the two are as comfortable discussing emerging trends in developing markets as they are the minutia of a specific company's balance sheet. With year-to-date performance that has outstripped all major European indices, the pair sees even more potential for stocks there in the coming quarters. The two think Europe will experience a sharp burst of growth as economies turn a corner, and outlined the sectors and types of companies that stand to gain the most when this occurs. Excerpts from an interview with Pieter and Thijs are provided below. You can find the unabridged version at Business in Canada. BiC: What do you see, right now, as the big picture opportunities and big risks in European equities? Pieter: Our thesis is that there are a lot of opportunities in Europe in cyclical areas, purely because we‚Äôre coming from very, very depressed levels. If we look at automotive sales in most of the big European countries, we‚Äôre back down to the levels that we saw in the early 1970‚Äôs, and so we think there‚Äôs a big catch-up of demand in terms of consumer goods, durable consumer goods, and capital goods that is going to take place. Our thesis is NOT that Europe is suddenly going to be consistently a faster grower than the rest of the world, but we do clearly see this catch-up ahead of us. BiC: So you see this recovery continuing even if growth levels remain modest. Thijs Hovers: I think what you‚Äôre going to see is a reluctant recovery: a lot of companies and consumers are going to be forced to spend. We‚Äôve now seen 8 or 9 consecutive quarters where the cap/ex cycle was negative, and that is one of the longest downturns in capital expenditures since the Second World War. At some point, companies will have to reinvest in their businesses. And then you come in a territory that‚Äôs very interesting to us, because what we now look at is which companies over the last five years have been able to successfully reduce costs and retain profitability despite the drop-off in demand, but have enough capacity left that they can benefit from a pick-up in demand by generating high profit margins. You probably need a much lower top-line level, or much lower overall GDP output, to get to big earnings again. That‚Äôs the phase we‚Äôre in now. In different geographical areas and end-markets, we‚Äôre going to see a recovery. Probably, it‚Äôs not going to go from these low levels to 2 percent growth slope, for the next five years. You‚Äôll need to have some kind of very sharp bounce first, and then growth will be somewhat modest. BiC: When you look at a company, there‚Äôs something that obviously goes beyond the valuation and the opportunities from a business standpoint. In the past, the two of you have focused on a lot of mid-cap companies and companies that are heavily focused on individual industries. Is there a commonality that you look for in management? Are there traits that you see as particularly positive or as warning flags? Thijs: At this phase, you don‚Äôt want to be caught in what we call the real ‚Äòdogs‚Äô, the companies that might look cyclical and potentially benefit but could still be wiped out by a huge rescue rights issue or something like that. Together, we have a very long period of experience in looking at these companies and have known them for a very long time already, and we can set up meetings with management teams very quickly ‚Äì and we have more than one meeting. If you see that the management is more focused on letting its share price go up over the next six months instead of saying, ‚ÄòWell, we‚Äôre trying to gain market share and increase returns on capital,‚Äù ‚Äì that‚Äôs a big red flag. Another thing could be if the CEO you meet now and the CEO you meet three months later tell completely different stories. So that‚Äôs how we try to discern between higher and lower quality companies. Later on, we start phasing in what trends we‚Äôre seeing and which companies could potentially benefit from them. But that‚Äôs separate from analyzing the quality of a business. Pieter: The quality of the people running the businesses is key. It‚Äôs almost like investors trying to pick a portfolio manager, but we‚Äôre trying to pick the right business managers. That means they‚Äôre setting achievable goals that, from our perspective, are going to benefit the shareholders over the long-term, that they actually work in a consistent way to achieve those goals, and that the execution and message is consistent over time, as Thijs said. BiC: We talked a little bit about the trends and situations that companies are finding themselves in. What about the macro perspective? Pieter: If you look at equity yields and equity risk premiums in Europe, it‚Äôs pretty attractive relative to the other two developed markets, which we think are Japan and the U.S. And developed markets are, at this stage, are somewhat more attractive than emerging markets. So if you look at all opportunities, we think that domestic Europe is the place to be, relatively speaking, given valuations. BiC: When you‚Äôre dealing with these mid-cap names, are they finding it difficult to access credit markets or is that more a phenomenon of the southern economies. Is credit still flowing in the core economies? Pieter: That‚Äôs a good point. Thijs had a talk with a Northern European company today, and there is a big divide between Northern Europe and Southern Europe. Basically, the southern European banks are being funded primarily by the ECB with very cheap money, so they‚Äôre on life support. The ECB will continue to fund them, because the consequences of not doing so would be too dramatic, but it really benefits funding and lending in the stronger countries. We were talking to a company that‚Äôs looking to do acquisitions, and we asked them "Do you have to go to the bond market to get financing?‚Äù and the CFO basically said no, we can go to the banks. And the banks are lining up to lend to companies with strong credit. That phenomenon you see is the easy monetary policy that is there to keep the periphery going is basically benefiting lending in Northern Europe. That‚Äôs a very big trend. THIS ARTICLE WAS ORIGINALLY PUBLISHED AT BUSINESS IN CANADA.¬†
Since the financial crisis, European cities in stronger nations ó like Poland, Turkey, and Germany ó have seen significant growth, while cities in beleaguered countries like Greece and Italy have remained stagnant. "But the range of performance within each nation indicates the extent to which cities are managing national economic constraints in very different ways," write the Centre for London's Greg Clark and Tim Moonen in a new report on European cities. "Since 2007, the most dynamic major European city has been Istanbul, which recorded 10% growth in jobs and<U+2028>in gross value added (GVA) in the past five years. Other stand out performers are Warsaw, which has recorded the fastest GVA growth among European capitals (+16% since 2007), and Stockholm, which has recorded very impressive job and GVA results despite already having had one of the highest employment and GDP per capita figures in the†continent," they wrote.  On the other end, Athens, Barcelona, and Naples have all floundered. Take a look at the chart from the report: Centre for London
Flickr/inazakiraGoldman Sachs is telling its young, starry-eyed investment bankers to go ahead and take the weekend off, Bloomberg's Michael J. Moore reports. The company convened a "junior banker task force" earlier this year that has reevaluated the demand placed on new employees. And they've apparently decided to take it easier on the little guy.†From Bloomberg: ìThe goal is for our analysts to want to be here for a career,î†David Solomon, Goldmanís co-head of investment banking, said in an e-mailed statement. ìWe want them to be challenged, but also to operate at a pace where theyíre going to stay here and learn important skills that are going to stick. This is a marathon, not a sprint.î The development comes at a time when young banker stress is under particular scrutiny. In August, Bank of America intern Mortiz Erhardt passed away after reportedly working consecutive all-nighters at the bank's London office. Is Goldman's change a real shift in policy? Or is it more a "don't work on weekends but do work on weekends wink wink" kind of thing? Only time will tell. Read the full report at Bloomberg†ª
Why are stores like Sears in so much trouble? This table from today's retail sales report provides a clue. What you should pay attention to is the right column, which represents the year-to-date change in sales for each category. Department store sales are down over 5% year to date. Non-store retailers, which represents Internet retailers, have seen sales growth of over 10% year to date. (via Kelly Evans) Retail Sales Report
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithThe 20-city S&amp;P Case-Shiller home price index climbed 0.93% on the month in August. This was better than expectations for a 0.65% rise. July's data was revised down to show a 0.6% rise. Meanwhile, on the year home prices were up 12.82%, ahead of expectations for a 12.5% rise. July's data was revised down to show a 12.31% rise in home prices. Denver and Dallas set new highs, with home prices up 10.1% and 9% respectively. "Both Composites showed their highest annual increases since February 2006," David Blitzer, chairman of the Index Committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones¬† Indices said in a press release.¬† "All 20 cities reported positive year-over-year returns. Thirteen cities posted double-digit annual gains. Las Vegas and California continue to impress with year-over- year increases of over 20%. Denver and Phoenix posted 20 consecutive annual increases; Miami and Minneapolis 19. Despite showing 26 consecutive annual gains, Detroit remains the only city below its January 2000 index level." The report finds that the monthly percent changes show the peak rate of gain in home prices was last April. "Since then home prices continued to rise, but at a slower pace each month." Analysts have warned for some time that the pace of home price growth would slow. Here's a look at the annual returns of the 10-city and the 20-city composite home price indices: S&P Case Shiller
Matthew Rutledge on FlickrSears is in trouble. The company has shut down hundreds of stores in recent years and has been selling its most profitable locations to raise cash. Today, the company made the big announcement it was considering spinning off its Land's End and Sears Auto Center businesses‚Äîa huge sign that the brand is deteriorating, said Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors.¬† "Every asset sale brings Sears closer to death," Sozzi said. Here are the five most disturbing announcements Sears made today. 1. Spinning off properties. Parting ways with its well-known Land's End and Sears Auto businesses shows that the Sears brand is desperate to raise cash, Sozzi said. "The company is pushing off the inevitable," Sozzi said. "Because here is the real deal: at some point in our lifetime, Sears will run out of assets to sell to raise cash to fund operations." 2. Sears is bombing in Canada. The company is selling off prime real estate there, opening up space for competitor Target, Sozzi said. 3. Sales are down. The namesake brand's domestic sales are down 4.8%, putting Sears in a way worse position than competitors like Wal-Mart or Target. 4. The company isn't investing in the future. "Sears says it's 'managing its capital expenditures more efficiently'...and that's the problem," Sozzi writes. "Sears spent 0.9% of its annual 2012 revenue on capex...Macy's spent 3.4%." 5. Rewards program. The "Shop Your Way" rewards program is "eating the company from the inside out," Sozzi said. "It's driving lower quality sales today¬†and opening the floodgate for even more margin-killing promotions in the future."
REUTERS/Finbarr O'ReillyThe Census Department just published its September stats on retail sales. Headline sales declined by 0.1%, which was a bit worse than the 0.0% expected by economists. Excluding autos and gas, sales climbed by just 0.4%, which was a bit worse than the 0.5% gain expected. "The weakness in the headline retail sales figure is largely a function of the sharp drop in auto sales, which fell 5.1% mom to 15.4 million in August," noted Bank of America Merrill Lynch ahead of the report. "Gas prices fell in September, but we expect overall gasoline station receipts to be up. " "In retrospect it seems that the August results were exaggerated by a calendar shift that moved Labor Day weekend sales into the August reporting period this year," said Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "Electronics sales were probably helped significantly by the introduction of the new iPhone‚Äîadding 0.1-0.2 pct pt to retail sales growth," said UBS's Kevin Cummins on Friday. Census
From Morgan Stanley, a classic chart showing that in all likelihood, the Chinese car market is going to be ridiculously huge. Morgan Stanley
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderFrom Dave Lutz at Stifel, Nicolaus, here's a super-quick look to what's going on. Big things folks will be watching: Apple earnings and the negative impacts of banks. Good Morning!†† US Futures are slightly negative, as the street digests earnings ahead of the FOMC meeting.†† Eyes are on AAPL, whose shares have rebounded after touching $500 in the overnight.† Overseas, markets have a slightly better tone, but still in very light volumes.†† The DAX is up 10bp, while the EU Fin index is staging a decent pop on the heels of tighter PIIGS spreads after yesterdayís smackdown ñ but some of the major banks like DB, Lloyds, Standard Charter and UBS all weaker on numbers.† Oil services the best performer, as Oil and Gas stocks jumping on BP numbers.† India Hikes 25bp as expected, Sensex jumps almost 2% in heavy trading, while China lost more ground despite the PBOC injecting liquidity overnight ñ knocking their Repo rates lower.†† The Nikkei was off 40bp into the BoJ meeting later this week.† The 10YY is flat in the US, while most Sovereign trader attention on Spainís 10YY hitting 6month lows as retail sales data comes in stronger.†† The DXY continues to rebound, gaining against both Ä and Yen ñ providing a headwind for commodities.†† That said, Copper has a slight bid to it, but all other Industrials are in the red ñ Brent is slipping 1% despite Goldie cutting OPEC output projections on Libya turmoil, which helped propel the commodity yesterday, widening the premium to WTI towards $11/barrel.† Focus on Corn as it hits 3Y+ lows as the street is pressing the concentrated short there.† We get PPI and Retail Sales at 8:30 -† Case Shiller data at 9 - Business Inventories, Consumer Confidence at 10, The Senate Banking hearing on housing finance reform at 10 ñ a small POMO at 11 ñ and a 5Y auction at 1pm.†† S&amp;P announced KORS to replace NYX in the SPX on the close Nov1 ñ Seeing estimates of 11mln-18mln shares of KORS to buy.
REUTERSGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
BEIJING (AP) ó China's ruling Communist Party says its leaders will meet late next week to craft a long-range economic blueprint for the country. The official Xinhua News Agency reported that the party's Politburo announced after a meeting Tuesday that the 18th Party Central Committee's Third Plenary Session will be held Nov. 9-12 in Beijing. Party leaders have promised significant but unspecified reforms, while analysts say the most likely changes will be to the financial system. No information about the agenda of the meeting was provided. However, such sessions have in the past been a platform for the announcement of economic programs. That was most significant in December 1978 when the session cemented Deng Xiaoping's new direction of reform and opening that set China on the course for its massive economic transformation. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
The global banking sector continues to feel the fallout of the financial crisis. Earlier we posted a story on Deutsche Bank's horrible earnings, which were the result of legal fees and an investment banking slowdown. Also getting hit: Swiss bank UBS. Shares are down over 5%. Via Bloomberg: Bloomberg The company announced that there was a probe into its foreign exchange practices, and it also said earnings were being dragged down by litigation.
FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) ‚Äî Deutsche Bank said Tuesday net profit dwindled to a bare 51 million euros ($70 million) in the third quarter after it set aside 1.2 billion for losses from lawsuits. The net profit compared to a figure of 754 million euros in the same quarter a year ago. Profit for the third quarter fell far short of the average analyst estimate of 320 million euros as compiled by financial information provider FactSet. The bank also said its investment banking business has slowed. Net revenues fell 10 percent to 7.7 billion euros. It said the deduction to earnings for litigation costs were mostly related to legal action over U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities, investments based on mortgage loans to borrowers with shaky credit. The securities helped drive financial turbulence in 2007-2009 as they lost value. The charges for the quarter raised Deutsche Bank's set-asides for likely litigation costs to 4.1 billion euros. Litigation charges have weighed on earnings for several quarters. During a conference call with investment analysts, Chief financial officer Stefan Krause acknowledged that the uncertainty over how big the litigation bill would eventually be was "frustrating for investors." Revenues at the bank's investment banking business fell 26 percent. The bank suffered from a slowdown in trading debt securities such as bonds. Bond markets have been volatile in recent months due to uncertainty about when the U.S. Federal Reserve might start cutting back its bond purchase program. The program is aimed at holding down longer term interest rates and supporting growth. Revenue from sales and trading in bonds fell to 1.29 billion euros from 2.73 billion euros. Deutsche Bank said it was making progress in strengthening its finances and reducing its holdings of risky investments to meet new regulatory requirements, and was cutting costs, including for compensation. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Yesterday we wrote about the geographic makeup of people who were buying property in London. There were some fascinating trends. Most notably, lots of high-end London homes are being bought up by the Chinese... but the REALLY high-end homes are being bought up by the Russians, and other Eastern Europeans. So why's everyone buying in London? This chart from Deutsche Bank and Knight Frank sheds some light. Basically, it's a combination of existing networks in the city, geopolitical concerns elsewhere, a weak pound, and easy financing. Not of particular concern: UK taxes or government intervention in the market. Deutsche Bank, Knight Frank
Heather Holland/DNAinfo.comJim Gallagher, a 65-year-old bartender at Molly‚Äôs, quit drinking for 18 years, and said he would never go back.Quick heads up. There are some interesting economic numbers coming out later today. Here they are, via Calculated Risk: ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM ET, Retail sales for September. The consensus is for retail sales to be unchanged in September, and to increase 0.4% ex-autos.¬† ‚Ä¢ At 9:00 AM, the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller House Price Index for August. Although this is the August report, it is really a 3 month average of June, July and August. The consensus is for a 12.4% year-over-year increase in the Composite 20 index (NSA) for August.¬† ‚Ä¢ At 10:00 AM, Conference Board's consumer confidence index for October. The consensus is for the index to decrease to 75.0 from 79.7. Each of these is significant. Retail Sales and Consumer Confidence should be edifying for further gauging impact of the recent government crisis.
Osbornb / Creative CommonsIt's a very underwhelming start to the day. Around the world, markets are basically going nowhere. European markets are mixed and directionless. Asia was slightly lower. US futures are slightly lower. The big story in the world right now is earnings, but even they're not having a huge impact. Apple originally fell on earnings yesterday after hours, but ended up trading flat after hours. Basically the world is just looking for something to happen.
