Screengrab One year ago, a fascinating plan emerged out of the Occupy movement ó the group would crowdsource money to buy consumer debt for "pennies on the dollar" on the secondary market, and then, once they owned the debt, they would cancel it. The plan was called "Rolling Jubilee," because the hope was that the liberated debtors would then donate to the fund, "rolling" the jubilee forward. The idea received a lot of buzz, but there were real doubts it could work ó Felix Salmon wondered if lenders would really be happy to sell the debts to the Rolling Jubilee if they were just going to cancel it, and there were serious concerns that if debts were canceled it might be technically considered income for those for whom it had been repaid (and thus subject to taxation that would eclipse its benefits). After 12 months, however, the concerns are beginning to fall by the wayside. The organization behind Rolling Jubilee, Strike Debt, announced this week that they have been able to buy and forgive $14.7 million of debt over four separate purchases, the most recent of which forgave $13.5 million of debt for 2,693 people across 45 states and Puerto Rico. According to the Guardian, the group has†raised around $620,000 so far, though it has spent only†only $400,000. By any measure, these figures sound like a success, though it has not come easily. "It's a very complex and slow process, involves accountants and lawyers," Mike Andrews, a writer and editor who has been involved in Strike Debt from the start, told Business Insider in a phone interview. "It's why we've had four buys over the course of the year, with long time spans in between. It's a complex process which takes a lot of time." At least one of the potential problems raised by critics has not appeared, Andrews says. Lenders have been happy to sell the group debt on the secondary market. "It hasn't been an issue at all," Andrews explains. "I'm not sure why. Maybe they aren't aware that Rolling Jubilee is buying their debt, or that we're buying their debt to abolish it, but maybe they're happy to get paid any amount for it, and they don't care what happens with it after it's bought." The tax issue hasn't reared its head, at least not so far. However, Andrews admits that a lot of the debtors haven't got back in touch with the group yet (Rolling Jubilee knows little about the debtors' identities until after the purchase has been made but sends a letter to the individual informing them that their debt has been forgiven). "Unfortunately, we haven't heard from a lot of folks whose debt we abolished, even though we send them letters announcing that the debt was bought," Andrews says. "I would guess that some of them are just kind of astonished that someone bought their debt and just canceled it. And some of them may not have heard of Strike Debt before. We haven't heard directly from many debtors, but we have heard from a couple and they seem incredibly enthusiastic." Those who have got in touch have tended to be people in low-income communities. "They have to go to the emergency room, and they're uninsured, they decide to go to the emergency room and they incur this debt to the hospitals," Andrews says. Of course, even if Rolling Jubilee is a success, in the grand scheme of things it isn't that big a success. Strike Debt concedes that $15 million is a tiny fraction of the secondary debt market, and so far the plan has been limited to medical debt ó Andrews says that while the group would like to target student debt, it is difficult as much of that debt is held by the government and not listed on secondary markets (the group is looking into ways to buy the smaller portion of student debt that is private). Even so, Rolling Jubilee's ability to create dialogue about debt marks it as perhaps the most successful legacy of the Occupy movement. The hope is that this dialogue can grow and help create real change. "When we launched Rolling Jubilee we knew it would be temporary," Andrews says. "Of course we wanted to do some material good by actually abolishing peoples debt, but another major motivation was to just highlight the existence of this secondary debt market, and the fact that the original lenders are actually selling the debt for a very small amount of money, and unfortunately they won't do that to the actual debtor."
Barring an unexpected shake-up in the next six weeks, 2013 will undoubtedly be remembered as the year of the stock market. The chart below shows why that's the case. "We would be unsurprised to see portfolio managers choose to take money off the table earlier than normal this year end," writes BofA Merrill Lynch strategist John Bilton in a note to clients. "3Q13 earnings season may have left many investors with a rather 'hollow' feeling; but it‚Äôs hard to deny that 19% total returns in stocks, when bonds are on course for their worst year since 1987, makes for a tidy performance from stocks this year (chart 5); and if SPX closes 2013 at 1750 and US 10y yields at 3%, stocks will have beaten bonds by 37% in total return terms ‚Äì the highest differential in 40 years." The S&amp;P 500 closed Friday at 1798, an all-time high for the index. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note, meanwhile, closed at 2.71%. BAML
YouTube/OWNEveryone has things that make them tick, and that's especially true for powerful leaders who frequently deal with people. From half-baked ideas to working around the clock, we've collected the management pet peeves of 12 of the world's most influential leaders. Most items on the list are smart things to avoid in general. For example, media mogul Oprah Winfrey is likely not the only person who considers loud gum chewing unprofessional. And¬†if you ever get the chance to meet one of these people, you'll know what not to do around them.
James Galbraith does a fair bit of myth busting here. This is a must watch. The only thing I donít like is where he says he agrees with Dick Cheney on the idea that ìdeficits donít matterî. When discussing the idea of an autonomous contingent currency issuer we have to be very clear that deficits definitely do matter in that they could cause high inflation or any other number of potential negative side effects for the economy. But overall, this is an excellent interview and Professor Galbraith does a fantastic job getting to the point: 
REUTERS/ Ueslei MarcelinoA new report from Wells Fargo's Jay Bryson and Mackenzie Miller takes a look at developing economies and their potential exposure to a financial crisis. Bryson and Miller rank the¬†28 largest developing economies based on economic indicators that are associated with financial crises: "Foreign exchange (FX) reserves, the real exchange rate, growth in credit, GDP growth, and the current account. That is, countries that have low FX reserves, an appreciated exchange rate, rapid credit and GDP growth, and current account deficits tend to have the highest probabilities for financial crises." Bryson and Miller stress that crises are not necessarily inevitable for these countries, but "developments in these economies bear watching in coming years." "It appears that the potential economic growth rate in the developing world has downshifted from the very robust rate that was achieved prior to the global financial crisis," they write. We took the 12 countries with the highest (most vulnerable) composite score.
Of all the millions of words uttered in the past year on the possibility of the British being given a referendum on whether or not to remain in the European Union, scarcely any have had the faintest connection to reality. This unreal debate was triggered, of course, by David Cameron‚Äôs pledge that, if re-elected in 2015, he would negotiate with Brussels for the return of unspecified powers of government and then, in 2017, would lead the ‚ÄúYes‚Äù campaign in a referendum, arguing that Britain should stay a member of the EU on the basis of the new relationship with it that he had so brilliantly negotiated. His proposal last January ‚Äì only made to buy off the fear of so many of his backbenchers that Ukip might cost them their seats in 2015 ‚Äì was no more than an empty political gesture. As many in Brussels have scornfully made clear, there is no way that Britain could be given back any powers, because this would breach the most sacred principle on which the EU is founded, that once powers have been handed over they can never be returned. At least Mr Cameron has brought out a consensus of the great and the good ‚Äì from politicians of all parties to the CBI and most of the press ‚Äì that above all, while the dysfunctional EU is indeed in need of ‚Äúreform‚Äù, for Britain to leave it would be a disaster ‚Äì because this would exclude us from the Single Market which accounts for nearly half our trade. As recent polls have confirmed, even if there was a referendum tomorrow, it is this more than anything that would terrify the British public into voting to stay in. But there are two issues in this debate which the supporters of the consensus are determined must never be raised. The first is that there is only one way in which Brussels could be made to negotiate the new relationship with the EU that the Cameronites say they are after ‚Äì by invoking Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. This would compel the EU by law to negotiate with us. But that, as we know, can only be triggered by a country that first says it wishes to leave the EU. The second fact the Cameronites are absolutely determined we shouldn‚Äôt discuss is that there are many countries, such as Norway, which trade as freely with the Single Market as we do, without having to be members of the EU. What do Mr Cameron and his supporters tell us they want? To negotiate a new relationship between Britain and the EU and for Britain to enjoy continued free access to the Single Market. There is only one legal and practical way in which they can have everything they want, but that depends on invoking Article 50. So they slam the door on it before they‚Äôve even started, by insisting that there is no way they could allow Britain to leave the EU. Thus they continue to dream their dreams, prattling about negotiations which can never happen, the return of powers they never name and meaningless referendums sometime in the indefinite future. They doom Britain to drift on into the twilight of a nation, impotently complaining at how we are shackled to this increasingly dysfunctional form of government, which next year will have its mind only on yet another centralising new treaty designed to rescue it from the insoluble mess of the euro. But we cannot be allowed to know that it doesn‚Äôt have to be like this. Locked in the mind prison of ‚ÄúEurope‚Äù, the political class that rules us won‚Äôt have it any other way. The greatest threat to children‚Äôs future is hidden from public view Yet again last week our media were full of how Britain‚Äôs ‚Äúchild-protection‚Äù system has gone so horrendously off the rails. There was the report on the near-collapse of Birmingham‚Äôs social services, already described by the head of Ofsted as ‚Äúa national disaster‚Äù. Even our education ministry, in charge of children‚Äôs services, dismissed as ‚Äúuseless‚Äù and ‚Äúrubbish‚Äù a report absolving Bradford social workers of any blame for failing to prevent the murder of the little boy whose mummified corpse was found only two years later. But yet again absent from all thIs outrage was any recognition of the other half of the scandal of how our ‚Äúchild-protection‚Äù system has gone off the rails, in its own way just as immense and terrifying. This has been the way, since the ‚ÄúBaby P‚Äù scandal hit the headlines in 2008, our social workers have overreacted in precisely the opposite direction ‚Äî by seizing thousands of children from loving parents for no good reason. In all those reports on the breakdown of Birmingham‚Äôs social services department, no‚Äâone bothered to interview the one MP, John Hemming, who knows the failings of Birmingham‚Äôs social workers as well as anyone, not least from his days as deputy leader of Birmingham council. Mr Hemming is the only MP who, for years, has been trying to blow the whistle on the scandalous way in which our social workers, instead of pursuing those tough cases of children being genuinely maltreated, have gone instead for the ‚Äúsoft targets‚Äù of families where there is no real call for their intervention. It is so much easier to snatch attractive, reasonably well-behaved children who are ideal for meeting the Government‚Äôs drive for more adoptions, or, better still, to feed our vast fostering industry, paying foster carers ¬£400 a week for each child, much of it lucratively run by agencies set up by former social workers. Mr Hemming notes how one reason why Birmingham‚Äôs social services have become so demoralised, with a fifth of their jobs vacant and the same number absent sick, is that, as in many others across Britain, responsible, humane-minded social workers find it impossible to stay there. So much of what they are now expected to do no longer matches up to the ideals of genuinely trying to help children that brought them into the profession. But the reason, above all, why our ‚Äúchild-protection‚Äù system has become so corrupted is that its workings are so fiercely hidden from public view by that wall of secrecy erected to protect them by our judges. At least Sir James Munby, the new head of our family courts, is now trying to chip away at that wall of secrecy, as he did again last week by calling in a speech to editors for our family courts to be ‚Äúopened up to the world‚Äù. The press, he told them, must be ‚Äújealously vigilant‚Äù in watching for miscarriages of justice, where judges are exercising what, since the end of the death penalty, have become ‚Äúthe most drastic powers‚Äù they possess ‚Äî ‚Äúthe power to take a baby away from a mother for life‚Äù. Next week I intend to report on yet another horrific instance of how his fellow judges still seem relentlessly determined to resist the point he is so valiantly trying to¬†make. Resist green tax suicide like the brave Poles Wholly predictable last week was the ghoulish eagerness of the warmists (including David Cameron) to blame the Philippines typhoon disaster on ‚Äúman-made climate change‚Äù. Those sceptics who actually consult the evidence wearily pointed out that in recent years tropical storm activity, including Pacific typhoons, has been less intense than for decades; and that Asia was hit by even worse typhoons in the past, notably in the late 17th century, at the height of the ‚ÄúLittle Ice Age‚Äù when the world was much colder than it is now. Meanwhile, in Warsaw, 10,000 officials and climate activists are gathered under the auspices of the UN, in yet another desperate attempt to agree that we must all be taxed and regulated into further reducing our ‚Äúcarbon emissions‚Äù. An innovation this time, however, was a 50,000-strong mass demonstration nearby, in support of a ‚Äúcounter-conference‚Äù sponsored by Solidarity and other Polish groups, to protest at how the UN‚Äôs bogus science is being used to ‚Äúdeceive the world‚Äù. As the country that relies more on coal for its electricity than any other in Europe, Poland is leading the way in resisting the pressure for the EU to commit economic suicide by raising its insane ‚Äúcarbon-reduction targets‚Äù even higher ‚Äî pressure led by our own Government. When can we hope to see 50,000 people turning out in Britain to protest that we have the most idiotically self-destructive energy and ‚Äúclimate‚Äù policies in the world? 
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueSince former Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner is headed to private equity firm Warburg Pincus, it's time to take a little dive into the firm's history and what it's been up to. Awesomely, this story will include Nazi interrogations, Jordanian royalty, and some pretty hefty deals. Warburg Pincus was founded in 1966 when founders Eric Warburg and Lionel Pincus merged their two private equity firms. Now it operates all over the world with $35 billion in assets under management and stakes in 125 companies. Warburg, born in Germany in 1900, came from an old banking family. He fought for Germany in WWI and learned the family trade in London, Frankfurt, NYC, and Berlin. He was a partner at†M. M. Warburg &amp; Company in Hamburg until 1938. That is when he and his family had to leave Nazi Germany. They were Jewish, and quickly joined the war effort against the Nazis in the United States. Warburg himself served as a lieutenant in the U.S. Army, was an intelligence officer, and interrogated captured Nazi leadership, according to The New York Times. For his efforts, Warburg was awarded the†Legion of Merit by the United States, the Order of the British Empire and the Croix de Guerre. He died in Germany in 1990. Before that he served as president of Warbug Pincus until 1973. Lionel Pincus' story begins under less extraordinary circumstances. He was born in Philadelphia in 1931, went to UPenn and Columbia, joined an investment firm, and was made managing partner by age 29. He started his own firm in 1964. After merging with Warburg, Pincus pushed hard to end regulation that did not allow pension funds to invest in private equity firms. He got what he wanted, and as a result the industry was changed forever. For all his wealth and power, however, Pincus' life was relatively quiet until the end. In the 1990s his wife died and he started a highly publicized relationship with†Princess Firyal, the ex-wife of the brother of King Hussein of Jordan. From The New York Times' obituary for Pincus in 2009: Growing rancor between Princess Firyal and Mr. Pincusís sons came into public view in court filings centered on two apartments that Mr. Pincus had bought in the Pierre hotel for $22.6 million seven years ago. In a complaint filed in New York State Supreme Court in August, the sons alleged that Princess Firyal had impeded the sale of the two units, the proceeds of which they said would go to charity. The princess had argued that she had a right to the property. Details of the recently negotiated settlement were not available. Now, for the deals. Since the firm's been around for so long, there are quite a lot of them. Some of the most successful, though, have been investments in 20th Century Fox, Mellon Bank, Humana, and toy company Mattel. This May, the firm closed an $11.2 billion fund under the leadership of its current CEOs, Joseph Landy and Charles Kaye. †Also this year, the firm sold Neiman Marcus to an investor group for $6 billion and sold†Bausch &amp; Lomb Holdings Inc, which it bought in 2007 for $4.5 billion, in an $8.7 billion deal. It was Warburg Pincus' biggest deal ever.
REUTERS/Jason Lee Xi Jinping is positioning himself as the most powerful Chinese leader since Deng Xiaoping Xi Jinping, the stockily-built, 60 ‚Äìyear-old leader of the last major nation on earth ruled by a Communist Party, has had a good, week. A major meeting of China‚Äôs leadership bolstered his authority one year after he took command of the rising superpower. Though his name is less familiar as those of his predecessors, Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping, he has stamped himself as the world leader who grew most in status and power during 2013. His readiness to adopt a degree of change was shown by the announcement on Friday that a key Party meeting had decided to loosen the one-child policy to let couples have two children if one of the parents is an only child‚Äîpreviously, the rules had required both to be only children. The ‚Äòreform through labour‚Äô system by which people could be sent to prison camps at the whim of officials is to be abolished. Economic reforms were promised and there were proposals to relax policies restricting the rights of more than one hundred million migrant workers in cities. Alongside these reforms, the Party Plenum showed how Xi is accumulating authority to make him the most powerful Chinese leader since Deng two decades ago. In the past year, he has brought down potential rivals, notably the maverick politician Bo Xilai who is now serving a life sentence for corruption and whose wife was handed a suspended death sentence for murdering he British businessman, Neil Heywood. He has used an anti-graft campaign to enforce his will on officials and is reported to have installed a special high-level police unit reporting directly to him. As Chairman of the Central Military Commission, Xi has good links with the large and politically important People‚Äôs Liberation Army. On top of all this, the Plenum decided to create a national security committee to bring together the different branches of law enforcement at home and to coordinate policy abroad; there is no doubt that Xi or one of his lieutenants will head the new body. He also holds the state presidency and has been a frequent traveler to represent China at summits including meetings with Presidents Obama and Putin. Last week‚Äôs Plenum resolved to create a top body to oversee reform ‚Äì it is a fair guess who will head it, especially after Premier Li Keqiang was not named alongside Xi as an author of the document announcing the decisions that had been taken. Xi has been preparing for this for a long time, showing every sign of being a masterly politician, able to work comfortably within the arcane Chinese regime and turn it to his advantage. He is what is known in China as a ‚Äòprinceling‚Äô - the child of a first generation Communist leader. These are the country‚Äôs aristocracy. Somebody who knew him as a young man says he always carried with him a sense of entitlement. But getting to the top was a long and winding road. His father, revolutionary general Xi Zhongxun, was Deputy Prime Minister under Mao but then fell foul of the Cultural Revolution. His son was ‚Äòsent down‚Äô to the countryside where he looked after pigs and was refused membership of the Communist Party. The family‚Äôs fortunes perked up when Deng won the power struggle set off by Mao‚Äôs death in 1976, and Xi Zhongxun became Governor of Guangdong province in southern China which spearheaded the country‚Äôs market-led economic policies in the 1980s. After finally gaining Party membership, Jinping graduated from a top Beijing university and then worked his way up through the administrative ranks in the provinces before being elevated to China‚Äôs top body, the Politburo Standing Committee in 2007. That made him the man singled out by the opaque leadership as China‚Äôs next leader of China ‚Äì before that, he had been less well-known than his second wife, a popular singer, who has stopped performing since his elevation ‚Äì they have four children. On his way to the top, Xi, who will serve until 2022, gained a reputation as a conciliator well in with the various high-level factions. He has an easy public style; in contrast to the dour approach adopted by most Chinese leaders, he smiles in public and was photographed recently in an unusually informal pose with his trouser legs rolled up and holding his own umbrella as he inspected a river port during a downpour. But there is no doubting his complete attachment to the Party State he heads. The past year has seen a toughening of the clampdown on dissent and an insistence by Xi on the need for absolute loyalty to the regime. He has resurrected Maoist ideology on Party power. Western ideas of plurality and democracy have no place in the People‚Äôs Republic he heads. The potential clash between this assertion of political power and the need for economic and social reforms to maintain the momentum built up since Deng‚Äôs initial reforms thirty years ago is the major question facing China ‚Äì and the world for which it has such an importance. Jonathan Fenby, China Director of the research service Trusted Sources, is author of Tiger Head, Snake Tails; China Today and The Penguin History of Modern China. 
APSnapChat is ìworthî more than $3 billion. Okay, sure, depending on how you define the term worth. If by worth you mean what some other person is willing to pay for it, then yes, sure. But if by worth youíre referring to the amount of value that might someday be derived from it, well then keep smoking crack. There is a finite window in which the Web 2.0 land grab will continue, and sellers should be thinking about cashing out sooner than later at this stage in the game. Especially now that all the big ones are public and bloated with massive cash war chests and ìcurrencyî in the form of obscenely high share prices. This will not continue indefinitely, it never does. Mark Cuban didnít wait around to change the world, he took the cash and ran. The SnapChat kids are adorable, they probably envision a world of tomorrow in which disappearing text messages are worth trillions of dollars and change life and civilization as we know it. Or maybe they think they can break Zuckerbergís balls for a few more months and eventually extract $5 billion from him as Facebook grows increasingly worried about ìlosing the younger teens!î Who knows? Fun to watch either way. Facebook can afford to pay a few billion for SnapChat and then quietly write half of it down a year from now. What it cannot afford ñ at least in its own mind ñ is to let Google get it.†Let the insanity begin. And yes, itís a mini-bubble effecting and enriching a handful of people, but itís not yet a full-blown bubble. Also, thereís plenty of skepticism in the media this time around. I was there last time ñ they were chugging the Kool-Aid like frat boys even as their very jobs were being threatened. Hereís the Los Angeles Times this morning: Snapchat is not even 3 years old. Itís run by a couple of twentysomethings with no prior business experience. And it has never made a cent. Yet investors are fighting for the opportunity to throw hundreds of millions at the mobile messaging service that is all the rage with teens. The tiny Venice Beach start-up just turned down a $3-billion all-cash offer from Facebook Inc. And then, according to the Silicon Valley rumor mill, it rejected an offer from Google Inc., this one for $4 billionÖ The tech industry may not be in another bubble, said Aswath Damodaran, professor of finance at the Stern School of Business at†New York University, referring to the rapid rise and fall of Internet companies in the late 1990s and early 2000s. But these paper valuations are a ìform of delusion,î he said. What is pushing up the price tags? The ability of these companies to draw a fast-growing following of young users, analysts say. Yes, young users are the key to crazy valuations. If only said young users had a clue as to their value ñ they might actually ask for a couple of dollars at some point rather than contentedly have their content and identities sheared from them like wool from a lamb. Source: Social media start-upsí value is enormous ó if you trust investors (LA Times)
This morning the New York Post published its list of Top 5 Old School NYC Steakhouses, and frankly, that can't be the end of it. It just can't be. Here's their list: Now here's what's wrong with it. (I'm going to try to have a rational debate about something as deeply sensory and emotional as steak, so stay with me here.) First thing first ó BLT Steak is a great steakhouse ó love the whole BLT empire. But that restaurant opened in 2004. If it were a human being it would not be able to drive, vote, or consume alcohol. It would not have even hit puberty. It should not be on the same "old school" list as Keens Steakhouse, which has been around this town in one form or another since 1885 (1885!!!), or Peter Luger, which has been in the same family since the 1950s.  Jody Storch, the current owner/manager/Brooklyn Commissioner of Steak, got the restaurant from her father. He worked in the factory across the street, and when he heard the restaurant was being sold by the previous owner, he bought it. And speaking of family, there is a glaring omission on this list ó Old Homestead Steakhouse.  I, personally, will stand for Old Homestead on a soap box until the cows come home (and we put them on a grill). Not only was the restaurant around in 1868 as the Tidewater Trading Post, it was called that because at that time, the Hudson river crawled right up to the restaurant.† Old Homestead as we know it now was bought by Harry Sherry in the 1940s, and his grandsons Greg and Marc, have built it into a great brand with locations in Atlantic City and Las Vegas as well as NYC. And what's more ó what's actually epic ó is that Marc and Greg worked tirelessly with the Japanese government in the 1990s to bring Kobe beef to you and me, and all the other until-then-deprived Americans who need it. They worked with regulators to get Japanese farms up to American health code specifications. This is diplomacy on at LEAST John Kerry's level. At least. When you go to Old Homestead, you are Marc and Greg's guest. That much is obvious, and that is the heart and soul of a steakhouse. That brings us to another glaring omission here. Gallagher's ó a steakhouse that lets customers choose their own cuts. It almost closed last year and grown bankers actually wept in the streets of New York (not really, but we got a bunch of super sad mail about it). Anyway, listen. Be careful with your steakhouse lists. People care about this stuff. You have to spend a lot of time eating a lot of steaks and drinking a lot of martinis to get this delicate stuff right. It's work, people. Hard work.
REUTERS/Alessandro BianchiSilvio Berlusconi hit out at members of his centre-right party who want to "murder" him politically as an internal split provoked the scandal-tainted ex-premier's ire on Saturday. Following late-night talks, Berlusconi's former right-hand man Angelino Alfano announced he would not remain at the side of his onetime mentor and would form a separate parliamentary grouping instead. Berlusconi responded with fury at a meeting held by his People of Freedom (PDL) party in Rome, saying the move was tantamount to political assassination and against the spirit of the "coalition of moderates", referring to his centre-right group of deputies. "It is very difficult to be united in parliament and to sit at the same table at this meeting with people who want to murder the leader of their party politically," he said, without naming Alfano. Alfano's faction, called the "New Centre Right", could lure away about a third of PDL's deputies in the parliament and the Senate, media reports claimed Saturday. "I am here to make a choice that I never thought I would make -- not to join Forza Italia," Alfano said late Friday, referring to Berlusconi's project to relaunch the PDL under the name it carried when the mogul was first elected to parliament in 1994. The 43-year-old Alfano said he made the decision because "these past few weeks have shown to what extent extreme forces have prevailed within our movement", referring to a belief by his supporters that Berlusconi was pandering to hardliners. Berlusconi's party has been in turmoil ever since the former premier tried to bring down the government by pulling his ministers out of the cabinet at the end of September, and was forced into a humiliating climbdown when they refused to heed his orders. The billionaire said Alfano's split was due to "differences not of policy or values but between personalities who have created a poisonous atmosphere". He added he had not slept all night and expressed his "sadness" at the break-up, after which he was applauded at length by supporters. In a conciliatory gesture Berlusconi added however that Alfano's grouping would be a "necessary member" of his centre-right voting bloc, with Forza Italia at its head. The 77-year-old flamboyant tycoon on November 27 will face another humiliation -- the prospect of being stripped of his parliament seat when the Senate votes whether to eject him under a law banning convicted criminals from the chamber. The move comes after the Italy's supreme court on August 1 turned down his final appeal in a tax fraud case, handing Berlusconi his first-ever definitive conviction in a long history of legal woes. Berlusconi has asked to serve his 12-month sentence as community service. Ejection from the Senate would mean Berlusconi being out of parliament for the first time since 1994, when the media and construction magnate first burst onto Italy's political scene. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Although working for a bulge-bracket investment bank is no longer a model-and-bottle proposition, it‚Äôs still one of the most lucrative first jobs you can get right out of college or MBA school. And if you want to land at Goldman, one of the Morgans, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Barclays, or BofA, you‚Äôre likely going to have to get in through the summer door.  That is, you‚Äôre going to have to first land a summer internship with your bank of choice, because these days, with competition so fierce and available spots so scarce, if you don‚Äôt get a summer internship, you‚Äôre chances of getting a full-time job are about as good as Bernie Madoff getting paroled.¬† And, to that end, in order to get your wing tipped foot in the door,¬†you‚Äôre not only going to have to have a 3.96 GPA or higher, captain of at least two varsity sport teams, be the president of three clubs (at least one of which meets more than once a semester), and have an expertise in something out of the ordinary such as the plight of the platypus or Persian history, you‚Äôre also going to have to field some pretty strange interview questions. And below are nine that you better be ready to conquer (all of which are actual questions that some of the 7,700 interns who filled out the 2013 Vault Intern Experience Survey told us they were asked in the not-so-distant past):¬† 1. Describe a person you hate. And describe a person you admire.‚Ä® If you have pretty large stones, you can answer the first part of this truthfully. But it might be best to play it safe and say something to the effect of: I‚Äôm an admirer, not a hater, and go into the second part of the question straight away and see if you can avoid having to address the first. However, if you‚Äôre pressed to get back to the first, you might want to qualify your answer and use the words ‚Äústrong dislike‚Äù and then describe someone who‚Äôs cheated or done something unethical; although it might sound counterintuitive given all the illegal activities that Wall Street has been engaged in as of late, ethics have become a large part of investment banking interviews.¬† 2. Why shouldn't I hire you?‚Ä® The best answer here might be one employing a little bit of humor. But tread carefully.¬†Nothing says Ding! louder than a bad joke. 3.¬†If you have a 70 percent free throw average, what‚Äôs the probability that you‚Äôll make three free throws in a row?‚Ä® You don‚Äôt even need to know what a basketball is to get this one right. And though it sounds a bit complicated, all you‚Äôll need to know is how to multiply 0.70 by 0.70 by 0.70. Or, easier yet, 70 by 70 by 70. Or, even easier, 7 by 7 by 7. Which gets you 343. Then place the decimal point three places to the left and you have 0.343, which means: 34.3 percent. (Note: this question gets a little trickier if it asks for the probability that you'll make at least two of three shots; in that case, you'll have to refer to your probability formulas to score the correct solution.) 4.¬†If you owned the only tire company in America, what would your production capacity need to be to meet demand?‚Ä® This is more or less a classic guesstimate question, which tests your ability to figure out the size of a market by talking through your reasoning aloud. That is, your interviewer isn‚Äôt looking for an exact answer, but wants to know how you think about estimating the size of a market/coming to an answer. So, in this case, you might want to first estimate how many new cars and trucks are manufactured each year (which all require new tires). Then maybe estimate how long tires last (the life span of a tire/when each tire needs to be replaced). And then perhaps estimate how often tire flats/accidents occur (which necessitate buying new tires), etc. 5. How many hairdressers and barbers are there in Manhattan?‚Ä® Another variation of the guesstimate. For this one, you might want to start out with the population of Manhattan, then estimate how many Manhattanites go to a hairdresser/barber, how often they go, how long the average haircut takes (30 minutes, 40 minutes), etc. 6. Sell me something in this room.‚Ä® The ‚Äúsell me‚Äù question is a popular one on Wall Street, especially in sales and trading interviews. For this one, try picking something other than a pen, which is the common answer of choice to this Q, and try picking something that isn‚Äôt yours (on the off chance that it draws attention to something of yours that the interviewer isn‚Äôt a fan of). You could, for example, choose a table, or chair, or perhaps a picture or frame on the wall. The important thing is not what you pick, it‚Äôs that you ask your interviewer (your customer) a handful of questions about what he or she is looking for in said product. In other words, you want to find out your customer‚Äôs needs, and then you can sell your product to your customer accordingly ("okay, so you're looking for a chair that you can sit in for 24 hours at a stretch without incurring any lower back pain ... well this one has been designed with the work hours of investment bankers in mind and will form to any back shape or size and has been recommended by four out of five chiropractors ..." ). The common mistake here is to simply spew out all the positive attributes about the product you picked before finding out your interviewer‚Äôs (customer‚Äôs) needs and desires. If you do that, your answer will result in this: no sale.¬† 7. On the first day of class, in the biggest lecture you have, where did you sit and why?‚Ä® Don‚Äôt overthink this one. Just be honest. Even if your answer is, I sat in the back row because I didn‚Äôt want to be called on. Well, maybe say anything short of that. But know this: you‚Äôre going to sound like your full of black beans if you try to answer with something you think you‚Äôre interviewer‚Äôs looking for. Which, at least in part, is how honest you are.¬† 8. Name the 10 biggest headlines in the Wall Street Journal¬†in the past year.‚Ä® This one might seem daunting at a glance, but it isn‚Äôt insurmountable, even if you don‚Äôt read the Journal on a regular basis. First, note that ‚Äúbiggest headlines‚Äù = ‚Äútop news stories‚Äù and that the Journal covers more than just business and finance news (which hopefully you‚Äôre aware of). That is, it covers general U.S. news, world news, culture, politics, etc. That said, it does focus on the financial markets, so your answer should definitely contain some business/economic/finance-related headlines/news stories. In any case, a good place to start is with the top world news stories in the past 12 months, and definitely think aloud while you‚Äôre compiling your answer. When you get to a stopping point and can‚Äôt think of any other world news items, think about major scandals that might‚Äôve been exposed (such as the London Whale fiasco; although, it should be mentioned, if you're interviewing with Jamie Dimon's kingdom, you might want to choose a difference scandal), large mergers that might‚Äôve been considered megadeals (like the recent American-US Airways marriage), and any monster IPOs that went to market (#likeTwittersIPOforexample).¬† 9. If you could be a tree, which kind would you be and why?‚Ä®¬† Yes, this is an actual interview question that one of the largest banks in the world recently asked a prospective summer intern. Which proves that you better be ready for anything. It also proves that knowing your financial markets¬†isn't the only thing that's essential to getting a job on Wall Street. You also need to know your flora.
APSEATTLE (Reuters) - Seattle residents have elected a political newcomer and member of the populist Occupy Seattle movement to their City Council, favoring a champion of a $15 minimum wage and tax on millionaires over a 16-year council veteran. Challenger Kshama Sawant, a community college economics professor, took 50.3 percent of the vote to incumbent Richard Conlin's 49.4 percent.††††††††††††† Conlin, a bastion of Seattle's Democratic establishment known for pushing sustainability initiatives, conceded on Friday to Sawant, who trailed early on in the largely vote-by-mail November 5 election. The results will be certified on November 26.††††††††††††† "These exciting results show a majority of voters are fed up with the corporate politicians who have presided over the widening chasm between the super-rich and the rest of us," Sawant said in a statement.††††††††††††† A member of the Socialist Alternative party, she championed "anti-corporate" causes during the campaign. Her victory was seen as unlikely as the Democratic and Republican parties dominate even nonpartisan elections in the United States.††††††††††††† Last year, Sawant ran against state House Speaker Frank Chopp, a popular Seattle Democrat, but lost.††††††††††††† Her win for the at-large council position marks the first time a socialist will hold a citywide post in roughly 100 years, according to the city's archivist.††††††††††††† Socialist Party candidates were elected to state and local offices before World War Two when the U.S. organized labor movement was strong nationwide.††††††††††††† (Writing by Eric M. Johnson; Editing by Louise Ireland and David Bailey)
Flickr/interdimensionalguardiansIn modern finance, you can hedge against anything. But the market for hedging against alien invasions is pretty thin. Marginal Revolution's Tyler Cowen pointed us to an interesting proposal addressing the matter. In an article¬†for the Journal of the British Interplanetary Society, Jacob Haqq-Misra of the Blue Marble Space Institute of Science proposes a novel way to insure against the coming close encounter, while also helping fund the search for extraterrestrial intelligence.¬† He proposes a bond which pays out when extraterrestrial life is proved to exist by researchers on earth. It would be a "lottery bond," which is a security usually issued to fund projects when the issuer foresees low demand for the bonds. In order to drum up demand, some randomly selected bonds within the issue are redeemed at a higher value than the face value of the bond once the project is completed; this enhances the value of the bond.  All of the bonds get a regular, but low coupon payment, and once the project is completed, the holders of the "lucky" bonds get a high payout, while everyone else gets less or nothing.¬† According to Haqq-Misra's paper: "I propose the establishment of a SETI Lottery Bond to provide a continued source of funding¬†for¬† the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI). The SETI Lottery Bond is a Ô¨Åxed rate¬†perpetual bond with a lottery at maturity, where maturity occurs only upon discovery and¬†conÔ¨Årmation of extraterrestrial intelligent life. Investors in the SETI Lottery Bond purchase¬†shares that yield a¬† Ô¨Åxed rate of interest that continues indeÔ¨Ånitely until SETI succeeds‚Äîat¬†which point a random¬† subset of shares will be awarded a prize from a lottery pool. SETI¬†Lottery Bond shares also are¬† transferable, so that investors can benefact their shares to kin¬†or trade them in secondary markets. The total capital raised this way will provide a fund to¬†be managed by a Ô¨Ånancial institution, with¬† annual payments from this fund to support SETI¬† research, pay investor interest, and contribute to¬† the lottery fund. Such a plan could generate¬† several to tens of millions of dollars for SETI research¬† each year, which would help to revitalize¬†and expand facilities such as the Allen Telescope Array." What makes these bonds unusual is that they assert with certainty that we will find alien life in the future. The probability of this occuring is determined by the Drake equation, an equation that tries to determine the probability of finding alien life in a galaxy, depending on several factors including the number of planets it has and the average rate of star formation. According to this, the Milky Way probably has about 12,000 alien civilizations.  Given our current zero knowledge about alien life, these lottery bonds would probably be a hard sell, but they're a fun way to help underfunded space research. And if we do end up finding a hostile alien civillization- you' or your descendants will be able to cash out big time.¬†
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVJim Chanos made a name for himself when he bet against Enron when no one else would. These days, he has focused his efforts on shorting China. China just wrapped up its 3rd Plenum and announced reforms including loosening its one-child policy and abolishing the re-education through labor camps.  With this in mind, we look back on some of the sharp insights Chanos has had about China. We also reflect on some of his many other brilliant quotes during his career as a short-seller.
mikecogh / FlickrA research group at McKinsey &amp; Company set out to follow the distribution of money in the economy as a result of post-crisis central banking. The team examined the low-interest rates, and tools ‚Äî conventional and unconventional ‚Äî central banks have been using to keep rates low. From a profit standpoint, the winners included governments, non-financial corporations, and ‚Äî in the case of the U.S. ‚Äî banks. Household income, pensions and insurance, and the rest of the world have lost in terms of net interest income. The researchers examined the policies of the U.S. Federal Reserve, the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, and the Bank of Japan. They outline how originally, the banks adjusted short-term interest rates through conventional measures, and drove the rates down. When they could push no further, having reached ‚Äúzero lower bound,‚Äù the banks used unconventional measures to retain the low-interest levels, including large-scale asset purchases. This is known as ‚ÄúQE‚Äù in the U.S., or the Fed‚Äôs bond buying program. At some point in time, all the central banks participated in a similar program. The result, the report says, is that the combined balance sheets for the banks grew between 2007 and the second-quarter of 2013 by $4.7 trillion dollars. McKinseyIn order to assist with contextualizing this number,¬†McKinsey‚Äôs researchers said to ‚Äúconsider that this increase is so far approximately equal to the annual GDP of the United Kingdom and France combined.‚Äù The Fed establishes monetary policy in the U.S. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) handles ‚Äúopen market conditions,‚Äù namely, the purchase and sale of securities as a way to impact the market. In January, the FOMC announced that its monetary policy is set for ‚Äúpromoting¬†maximum employment, stable prices,¬†and moderate long-term interest rates.‚Äù As of the last FOMC meeting in October, the U.S. economy had not experienced the growth necessary to ease bond purchases. Members cited ‚Äúthe ambiguous cast of recent readings on the economy‚Äù as a reason it was ‚Äúprudent to await further evidence of progress before reducing the pace of asset purchases.‚Äù The McKinsey team pointed out that they did not enter into this evaluation to study the effects of central banking policy on all of the economy, or to make judgements about the correctness of such policies.¬†It is the distributional effects of the low-interest rates that were under consideration. How the distribution occurred, the report states, was likely not intentional. Nevertheless, they are what they are. Payments to borrowers, and interest earned on income for savers declined when interest rates did. ‚ÄúLong-term investors such as pension funds and life insurance companies, as well as households, have lost net interest income because they hold far more interest-bearing assets than liabilities,‚Äù the researchers found. However, non-financial entities and governments do not hold nearly as many assets that earn interest, holding instead interest-bearing liabilities, contributing to profits in these sectors. The low-interest rate played out favorably for banks in the U.S., but not in other regions of the world. Total bank deposits in the U.S. rose following the crisis, and banks are able to offer very low interest rates on checking and savings accounts. On average, the rate paid to depositors fell, from 3.4 percent in 2007 to 0.5 percent in 2012. To examine household savings, the report took into account bank deposits, mutual funds, retirements savings, and so on. It found that in the U.S., as well as in the U.K. and the Eurozone, households are net savers, and hold more interest-bearing assets than debt. ‚ÄúUltra-low interest rates have therefore lowered household interest income on assets more than they have reduced debt service payments.‚Äù According to the researcher‚Äôs analysis, since 2007, overall U.S. households have lost $360 billion in net interest income. The top 10 percent in the U.S. saw the largest net interest income decrease, and a more minimal decrease was felt by the remainder. In addition to on average, not being a boon for net interest income in the U.S., the report does not find support that equity markets have benefited from the policies of the central banks. The researchers are also skeptical that households have expanded levels of consumption, because housing has not approached peak pricing.
Recent data continue to point to signs of an improving recovery in the UK. What is particularly encouraging is that the latest manufacturing PMI survey suggested rising optimism about exports; questions could still be asked about the balance of growth, but if there are now signs of improving exports this adds to the case for the optimists. The eurozone is no longer quite the concern it once was and that is probably helping, but the real scope for sustainable export strength lies outside Europe and our historic traditional UK export markets. Sustained strength in exports will probably happen if our companies can penetrate the markets in the far-flung world of the so-called BRIC economies - Brazil, Russia, India and, of course, China - and other large emerging markets. I discuss this in a short book I am soon to publish and I have also been travelling extensively in the past couple of months for a BBC radio documentary I am making about some of the emerging economies beyond the BRICs: Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey. They could become known as the MINTs. It has become highly fashionable in the financial world to focus on the signs of economic slowing in some of these well populated economies. Many commentators believe that these countries have very troubled futures as a result of their challenges. While there is no denying the challenges for many of them ñ the Russian authorities reduced their own estimate of long-term growth potential to 2.5pc ñ I think it is a quite different thing to conclude that they will necessarily slow down persistently and offer much less potential. It often seems to me that many commentators still donít quite get the scale at which the world has already changed, a focus that I discuss at the start of my new book. The ìslowdownî in the BRIC economies is for real, but since the end of 2010 their combined GDP has still risen by around another $3.5 trillion, not far off the equivalent of the size of Germanyís. Taking them collectively, they have increased by more than $15 trillion, creeping closer to the size of the US economy. Throw in the MINTs and a couple of others and you get up to $20 trillion quite easily. When our Chancellor and others meet their opposite numbers at future G20 meetings, they should be lobbying for more bilateral meetings with them ñ not the other way around. Within this group, China is, of course, special, and I devote a chapter to the ìnewî China, which is going to be more about the quality of growth than just the quantity. Nonetheless, by the end of this year, China will probably be larger than $9 trillion and, even at its slower rate of 7pc to 7.5pc, China is going to be adding around $1 trillion per year to the worldís economy. At $9 trillion, it is more than half the size of the US these days, and is actually close to the size of the rest of the BRICs and MINTs put together. On Friday, China announced an official end to the one-child policy ñ they have been experimenting with reforms in some areas in recent years ñ and, more importantly, confirmed they will phase out the ìhukouî, or migrant worker registration system, in smaller cities and towns. I believe both are important for growth, especially the latter, as it will give these people more confidence to be part of a growing, shared economy and consume. This means there will probably be better opportunities for the likes of the UK ñ more so than those countries that have benefited so much from the last generation of Chinese growth, which was principally based on its prominence as an exporter and state-driven investment economy. Now there are signs of an improvement in UK relations with China ñ George Osborne visited last month and David Cameron will travel there next month ñ I believe we are better positioned to see accelerated export growth to China. As for the other emerging economies, some have more challenges than others. Of those that I have travelled to recently, despite their challenges, their growth prospects would be the envy of most of the so-called developed world. Turkey, for example, remains under some clouds due to the governmentís heavy-handed approach to the summer protests, but this should not be translated into a view that the Turkish economy is finished. I found very little evidence of that from my week-long trip and meetings. Turkeyís burgeoning middle classes and their exceptionally well-located geography for modern trade growth gives them plenty to keep them going. In Mexico, there is a commitment to genuine, powerful supply-side driven economic reforms that I have rarely encountered in more than 30 years of finance, which are set to unleash a period of greater prosperity. Indonesia, from where I have just returned, is fraught with massive challenges related to infrastructure and governance, but, having met a number of influential people, I think it is probable steps will be taken to rise to the challenge. More than 240m people there are itching for more. As I also discuss in the book, we and our European allies can do ourselves a favour in two other areas. We need to be prepared to give up some of our joint dominance of world economic governance to allow these countries the space their growing power warrants and get better global decision-making ñ even if that would be difficult and different. Without doing this, we might not get the relationships we need to solidify rising trade relations. In addition, as much as we want many of them to do things ìour wayî, there are some things that we can learn from them. I spent some time with the leadership of Turkish Airlines, which, I believe, now flies to more countries than any other airline in the world. Iím sure there are things the UK can learn in terms of the interplay between the airlineís goals for expansion, the necessary airline infrastructure to support it and the trade ties that relate to the countryís goals. In China, while many of their largest banks and other financial entities face colossal challenges, one doesnít encounter the ìthem versus usî mentality that still seems to prevail here, although the efforts of the Bank of England Governor, Mark Carney, to declare that we are open for business is a welcome step to change this mood. I find myself continuing to be more cheery about the world and opportunities, and it is comforting to see that starting to become more and more evident in the data and mood of people in our own country. Jim OíNeill is the chairman of the City Growth Commission. His new book is available at www.londonpublishingpartnership.co.uk/the-bric-road-to-growth 
Former Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner is taking on a key role at a New York-based private equity firm after leaving the Obama administration earlier this year, The Wall Street Journal is reporting. Geithner, 52, who was an architect of the 2009 bank bailout during the financial crisis, plans to join Warburg Pincus, LLC as its president and managing director and will be "expected to work on¬†mapping the firm's strategy and management, investor relations and on matters related to the firm's investments," according to The Journal. The 40-year-old firm has invested more than $45 billion in 675 companies worldwide, according to its website. The Journal has more: Mr. Geithner has long considered a career in investing once his days in Washington ended. He has been reluctant to take a job with any banks, which he once regulated, and views private-equity firms and other investment managers as different from the institutions he oversaw as New York Fed chief. Mr. Geithner had been weighing job options while writing an account of the financial crisis, due out next year. Since leaving public service, Geithner had been traveling on the speaking circuit and speaking at corporate events.
