We‚Äôve seen plenty of conflicting data in recent weeks as we begin to see some weakness in the economy (right on time again!). ¬†In his latest note David Rosenberg highlights 12 indications that the economy is weaker than we think: Source: Gluskin Sheff
Thomas HerndonBy now you should know the name Thomas Herndon. He's the UMass Amherst PHD student who discovered an Excel coding flaw in the famous paper by economists Kenneth Rogoff and Carmen Reinhart, which had claimed that when a country's debt surpasses 90% of GDP, then growth slows precipitously. Herndon's discovery has ricocheted around the world, toppling one of the intellectual pillars of the austerity movement. Last night he was a guest on The Colbert Report. But the paper might never have happened. Herndon made the discovery while taking a course simply titled Econ 753: Applied Econometrics. One of the big assignments for the course was a "replication exercise" where the student has to replicate the findings of a famous paper. Here's how the assignment is laid out in the course syllabus, which was kindly sent to us by Herndon's professor (and paper co-author) Robert Pollin. Click the image to enlarge UMass Herndon decided for his project he would attempt to replicate the Reinhart-Rogoff findings, that growth for countries with 90% debt-to-GDP was so bad. But his professors almost didn't let him take on the project! Why? Because the actual project of taking a bunch of countries and their growth rates in in various years, and averaging them together is very simple mathematics. It doesn't seem like PHD caliber work. Professor Pollin told us via email: "The techniques in Reinhart-Rogoff are extremely simple, nothing high-tech at all.† So the question between we professors was: would we be asking Thomas to do something sufficiently challenging if he were only to replicate this very simple paper?" Pollin adds, "After some back and forth between us, the answer we settled on was obviously ìyes.î† The rest is history." Even then it wasn't inevitable. Herndon only discovered the glitch because he got Carmen Reinhart to send him the spreadsheet they used. But because the original idea of just replicating their work was so simple, the project almost never even got started.
Come for the econ commentary. Stay for the silly alt-text.  
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. ¬† Apple Is An Easy Decision¬†(Josh Brown) ¬† Investors who sold off Apple after the announcement of the company's big buyback/dividend plan last night are way off, Brown says. "I don't know if Apple's next product launch with be sexier than Samsung's. But I do know that it doesn't matter, not anymore. Negatives are well-known and small positives will be surprises now. There is still downside risk, but this is true of any stock so get over it." The State Of The Economy In One Awesome Graph (Russell Investments) Russell has updated its handy chart tallying¬†some key economic and market indicators. The orange mark represents the current rate, and the blue sections the typical ranges (defined as 90% of historical observations). Everything is either low or in-line except mortgage delinquencies, which remain way high. Russell Investments Get Out Of Expensive Consumer Stocks (Russ Koesterich) BlackRock/iShares' Koesterich warns aggressive consumer spending probably won't be back for years, and that stocks sensitive to household income have become overpriced. "Once deleveraging is complete, Americans are unlikely to resume their profligate ways for several reasons including: tighter access to credit; stagnant wage growth; less disposable income and higher interest rates," Marketwatch summarizes. Walmart finished down more than 1%; Target finished flat.¬† The Mysterious Short-Term Tops Of Late April¬†(All Star Charts) The Dow has come up a bit lame right about now in each of the past three years, AllStarCharts' J.C. Parets notes. Here's the chart: All Star Charts The good news, Parets says, is that each of the pullbacks have been temporary bumps that only briefly halted the bull run. We Still Have Netflix On Pause (Jim Chanos) Netflix's earnings surprise sent the stock surging yesterday.¬† But the perpetually skeptical Jim Chanos remains unconvinced. "It's very difficult ... penetrating households in the U.S. beyond the 30 million level," he said, pointing out HBO and AOL have also stopped around there. "Growth stops or slows dramatically You gotta be careful with Netflix there." Like Apple, the stock ended Wednesday down marginally. 
Reuters/Sergei Karpukhin The long-awaited trial of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny kicked off Wednesday in the city of Kirov, 560 miles away from Moscow, after it had been adjourned shortly after opening last week. While the trial is still only in its earliest stages, it looks set to be explosive and seems certain to become the most controversial in Russia since anti-Putin music group Pussy Riot went to court last year. Navalny, one of the most prominent figures in the Russian opposition movement, is facing up to 10 years in prison if found guilty of the embezzlement of $500,000 from a state timber company. However, Navalny and his supporters are adamant that the charges are politically motivated and in response to his criticism of Vladimir Putin's government. Much like Pussy Riot did at the beginning of their trial, Navalny used his first defense statement to denounce the charges against him and called on the judge to throw the case out. "The most important reason for this case's existence [...] is pushing me out of the legal political field," he told the court. "This case is absolutely politically motivated and fabricated." The video below shows part of Navalny's statement:  On Wednesday, the judge turned down the defense's attempt to have the case thrown out, but there are certainly plenty of reasons to suspect Putin's government wants to neutralize Navalny. While certainly a complicated figure (his past flirtations with nationalism have raised some eyebrows), Navalny has become a high-profile member of the Russian opposition in the past few years, and he has openly said that he intends to run for president. Much of his popularity comes from his campaign to expose the alleged corruption of Putin's government with a popular and sarcastic LiveJournal blog. It's proved especially successful recently ‚Äî in the past few months the blog has forced two Putin allies to resign, exposing luxury homes in Miami and a secret Israeli citizenship. These are major blows when Putin himself is hoping to rally popular support behind his own anti-corruption movement. In fact, despite certain similarities in the case, Navalny's trial could well be seen as much more important than that of Pussy Riot, whose case arguably only became significant due to the severity of the prosecution against them. As NYU Russian expert Dr. Mark Galeotti wrote in a post last week, "This is unlikely to be the final battle [for the opposition], but it is an extremely important one." It's also a battle that Navalny himself believes he will lose ‚Äî he is reportedly already planning what to take with him to jail, from velcro sneakers to photos of his family. Navalny is probably right in believing he will face jail time. Russia has shown no mercy in similar cases ‚Äî despite widespread condemnation of Pussy Riot, three members of the group were eventually found guilty of "hooliganism motivated by religious hatred" and sentenced to jail time. Mikhail Khodorkovsky, once the richest man in Russia, is still languishing in jail after apparently falling out of favor with Putin almost a decade ago. Things also don't look good for Navalny because a separate case has already been brought accusing him of committing a 3.8m-rouble ($121,000) fraud with his brother. With the current trial, it seems like Navalny is seizing on an opportunity to get publicity. While he is well-known online in Russia, his visibility (let alone, popularity) amongst the average Russian citizenship is negligible as he is not covered by state media. The trial might represent a chance to change that.   
Zillow has been an enthusiastic user of social media to communicate with investors, as CEO Spencer Rascoff has nearly¬†9,000 tweets, and the company has previouslyreleased earnings information on Stocktwits. This marks the next logical step, one that other companies are sure to follow. Whether it's tweets from Netflix CEO Reed Hastings or Tesla CEO Elon Musk, or the Twitter "hack crash" yesterday, social media's influence on markets and finance continues to grow, controversially at times. Nonetheless, it's likely that there's no turning back, so it'll be up to companies, investors, and regulators to put in place rules to govern best practices on these growing platforms. (Disclosure: I am an investor in Zillow.)
Flickr / Tony Fischer PhotographyVolatility was low in the markets today. The Dow fell, but the S&amp;P 500 ended flat. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,676, -43.1 pts, -0.2%S&amp;P 500: 1,578, +0.0 pts, +0.0%NASDAQ: 3,269, +0.3 pts, +0.0% And now the top stories:
Last week, U.S. stocks suffered their worst drop since June 1, 2012, measured by a 2.1% lossótotaling 318 pointsóin the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The week began with a terrorist attack that disrupted the Boston Marathon and a report that Chinaís economic growth unexpectedly slowed in the first quarter of 2013. Throughout the week, first quarter 2013 earnings results, including widely watched companies such as Bank of America and IBM, missed analystsí expectations.† The U.S. stock market has risen for much of this year, despite the United Statesí fiscal failings, another European bailout, geopolitical threats, high energy prices, and weak global economic and earnings growth. So last weekís notable drop may mark a departure. Breaking down last weekís market drivers may reveal insights about the likely future direction of the stock market. Terrorist Attacks A major terrorist attack that disrupts economic activity and raises security fears is always a risk for the capital marketsóespecially considering that terrorist attacks of all types around the world now total over 4,000 per year, according to data compiled by the Institute for Economics and Peace. The human toll is immeasurable. The impact of the terrorist attacks will stay in the hearts and minds of Americans long after any economic cost is recouped. With many thousands of terrorist attacks worldwide over the past 25 years, we have a lot of history to examine when looking at the economic or market impact of an attack. Historically, major acts of terrorism have not had lasting long-term negative effects on financial markets. In the countries where these attacks have occurred, the stock market has fully recovered in one week, on average (excluding the 1990 London Stock Exchange bombing, when an unrelated recession emerged around the same time). Figure 1: Major Terrorist Attacks Have Had No Lasting Impact on Stocks  With the exception of the 9/11 attacks on the United States, there has never been a terrorist attack that has materially and negatively affected economic activity. The 9/11 attacks depressed economic activity for a very short period; however, the fourth quarter of 2001 marked the end of the recession, when economic activity re-accelerated from the third-quarter loss of 1.1% in real gross domestic product (GDP) with a fourth-quarter gain of 1.4%, followed by a 3.5% gain in the first quarter of 2002. The stock market responded similarly; within a week of reopening after the 9/11 attacks, the stock market was rallyingóin the following nine weeks, the S&amp;P 500 posted a gain of 20%.  Nevertheless, there is still the risk that, for the first time in history, a terrorist attack would result in a serious disruption of economic activity and cause substantial declines in the markets. If the attack remains a tragicóbut isolatedóevent, it is unlikely to alter the marketís direction. However, a series of follow-on attacksóthe letters laced with the poisonous toxin ricin sent to the President and a U.S. Senator last week, for exampleómay erode confidence and negatively impact consumer spending, business investment, and investorsí willingness to buy stocks, sending the market lower. Data Sensitivity In the past, stocks have had more significant reactions to changing economic fundamentals and geopolitical events rather than terror attacks.† An example can be seen in the lengthy stock market decline that followed, but was unrelated to, the London Stock Exchange Bombing in 1990. The London Stock Exchange Bombing was followed two weeks later (August 2, 1990) by Iraqís invasion of Kuwait, and July 1990 marked the start of a recession in the United States. What may be more important to market direction in the coming weeks is the increasing sensitivity of the stock market to disappointing data, as evidenced by the reaction on Monday, April 15, 2013 to Chinaís GDP report. This resulted in a 1.8% stock market decline, which was driven primarily by disappointment in the report on first quarter economic growth in China that was released before the market opened and led to a decline that unfolded steadily throughout the day. Most of the decline had taken place by the time of the Boston Marathon terror attack at 2:50pm ET. Economic data are increasingly falling short of expectations. The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index measures how economic data for the worldís major economies fares compared with economistsí expectations. In recent years, a slide in this index has corresponded to a slide in the performance of stocks relative to bonds.† The index has peaked and made a steady decline in recent weeks, but only now may the stock market be beginning to react.  LPL Financial Bloomberg DataFigure 2: Global Economic Data Increasingly Falling Short of Expectations Disappointments came from companies, as well. While many companies are able to meet or beat the very low earnings growth expectations of about 1ñ2% for the first quarter of 2013 from a year ago, revenues have been weak. Of the 91 S&amp;P 500 companies that reported revenues, more than half (56%) missed expectations, according to data tracked by Thomson Reuters. Market participants may be getting increasingly sensitive to disappointing news after being complacent for some time. The VIX, the marketís so-called ìfearî gauge, jumped up and averaged 16 during the past week, after averaging a complacent 13.6 this year. While 16 is a far cry from the levels north of 25 seen during last springís 10% stock market slide or even the 22 reached during November 2012ís 7% pullback in the S&amp;P 500, it is a sign investors are becoming increasingly wary of news or events that could prompt another decline.
Netflix exceeded analyst expectations when it reported earnings this week, but legendary short seller Jim Chanos told CNBC's Scott Wapner that he still has questions about the stock. Chanos thinks DVDs are on the way out, and wonders if Netflix will ever make enough money on streaming. He also wonders if the market is as high as Netflix CEO Reed Hastings says it is ó are there enough households in the U.S. ready to use the product? Chanos points out that HBO and AOL have basically topped out at 30 million users. "It's very difficult ... penetrating households in the U.S. beyond the 30 million level," he continued. "Growth stops or slows dramatically. You gotta be careful with Netflix there."
Wikimedia CommonsNew York City is constantly evolving. As the city has grown, classic structures have been destroyed to make way for new development, or replaced with more contemporary versions. New York Architecture keeps track of these vanished buildings, which include iconic hotels, businesses, and private homes. This list was compiled using information from the website.¬†
Apple made two big product timing announcements in the last two days. On last night's earnings call, Tim Cook said new products aren't coming until the fall of this year. This morning, the company announced WWDC, the developer conference where it previews the upcoming versions of iPhone and Mac software, will happen June 10.¬† The last time Apple executives were on stage talking about new products was October 23, 2012. This means Apple is going to spend eight months, or 230 days, between on stage product announcements. This is a big gap, relative to its recent release pattern, as you can see in the chart we have in this post. There's a few ways to think about this product gap. From a purely financial standpoint, it's not good. Apple will have nothing new to goose its sales and profits. It gives rivals eight months to introduce new products that can sap at Apple's core business. That's why it forecasted a midpoint revenue guidance of $34.5 billion for the June 2013 quarter, which is a 1% drop on a year-over-year basis. It also guided to EPS of $7 for the quarter, a 25% decline. From a product standpoint, it suggests Apple is working on some big, new stuff. Otherwise, why the delay? If Apple is really going to release just an iPhone 5S, then why not put it out sooner? Either way, this gap is unusual, and it can create some anxiety for shareholders. Tim Cook is not a visionary with a proven track record of leading, developing, and delivering world-changing technology products. Even Steve Jobs said of Cook, "Tim's not a product person, per se." That said, we don't think Jobs hands over his company to someone he doesn't have full faith in. So, while he may not have been a product person, he's smart enough to surround himself with product people. Still, Apple could take eight months, or more, to deliver something that turns out to be a dud. Or, it could just be evolutionary. For the next two months, investors will have to render a verdict on what they think Cook is building.                                                                         	            					            Follow Tech Chart Of The Day and never miss an update!            							Get updates in your Facebook	news feed.							            				Get updates in your inbox.
Flickr / SteveCadmanChina's rise to global prominence is one of the most compelling narratives of our time. ¬†In the last 30 years we have seen the greatest sustained reduction in poverty in human history. ¬†Hundreds of millions of Chinese have moved from an impoverished rural existence to a increasingly prosperous and ambitious urban middle class. There are lots of interesting sub-stories around China's rise. ¬†Why was China so poor for so long? ¬†What catalyzed its dramatic rise out of poverty? ¬†Where is China today? ¬†How does China's economy affect the rest of the world? ¬†And what does the future hold? Recently I pulled a number of datasets from Quandl's rich collection of China statistics to create simple, data-centric overview of China's dramatic growth and its ongoing challenges. This slideshow is the result.
 Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and David (R-LA) have presented a bill that is going to keep Wall Street bankers up at night ‚Äî the "Terminating Bailouts for Taxpayer Fairness" Act. The acronym for that is TBTF ‚Äî see what they did there? The two Senators have been working together to figure out how to end Too Big To Fail for weeks now. Last month, they both presented on this topic on the Senate floor, and announced that they were working on legislation inspired by former FDIC Chairwoman Sheila Bear. Now it's here. So what's in it? To put it simply, loads of capital requirements. meaning that banks will have to hold more high-quality capital the bigger they get. The bill points out that "U.S. banks‚Äô assets have grown from 20 percent of GDP to 100 percent of GDP, while their capital ratios declined from about 25 percent to around 5 percent of total assets." That means raising cash by any means necessary ‚Äî selling off assets, cutting staff (and Wall Street has seen a lot of that), etc. Here's the break down of how much money everyone will need to raise and how: "The Federal Reserve and other banking regulators will be prohibited from allowing non-depositories access to Federal Reserve discount window lending, deposit insurance, and other federal support programs. This will help reduce market expectations of financial assistance for megabanks." This couldn't have come at a worse time for Wall Street. Banks are having a hard enough time coming up with cash. First quarter earnings season was pretty dismal as businesses that were once money makers went dry and legal fees continued to pile up. In a nutshell, The TBTF bill will make it harder for banks to reach international capital requirements, fight off lawsuits, maintain their staff compensation, pay out shareholder dividends and more. As you can imagine, the Wall Street lobby machine is already jumping on this. Here's a statement from Hamilton Place Strategies' Tony Fratto. He's a former Treasury and White House official. "This is a bank break up proposal and tying together the loose fringes of the parties doesn't make it 'bipartisan'. It's actually a bill neither party supports. We've come a long way since 2008. Whether because of regulation or market discipline, banks are better capitalized, more liquid, and much safer today. And that's good because our economy needs banks to perform today. Mandating new and punitive capital charges, and walking away from international agreements ‚Äî all in the midst of the most extensive financial regulatory overhaul in history ‚Äî is misguided. There may in the future be serious efforts to review Dodd-Frank reforms, but this isn't one." Perhaps that's true, but there's another view to take here, and Wall Street analysts have been talking about it for some time now. The view is that Vitter and Brown are speeding up a process that the market has been undertaking anyway. Last summer, when former Citi CEO Sandy Weill shocked the Street by saying that he regretted his push to end Glass-Steagall, everyone was talking about this topic. That's when bank analyst Meredith Whitney said that banks were already "overcapitalized and sluggish," and that the supermarket banking model Weill championed was destroying pricing in products like credit cards and home equity loans by emphasizing securitization and capital markets. The latter are the businesses that Brown and Vitter are worried about, and on Wall Street (for the most part) those are the businesses that are suffering ‚Äî think: sales and trading. The unsexy businesses like credit cards and wealth management, on the other hand, have been carrying the Street. From Whitney: "You can make great money in a utility type of business by borrowing cheaply and lending sensibly but that's not what's being done. The basic bank model has, is, and will be attractive. It's just you're combining everything and undercutting pricing in one place and trying to make up for it, effectively having loss leading businesses... it's not a business that works...You're either making money or you're not. If you're not making money get out of the business." If this bill passes, some people may very well take that advice.
Wikimedia Commons/ Earl McGeeheeSo this happened today at Citi's annual meeting in Midtown Manhattan... From the Financial Times:¬† About 20 protesters gathered outside the meeting at the Hilton hotel on Sixth Avenue in New York, chanting ‚Äúbanks got bailed out; we got sold out‚Äù. While they mostly walked in a circle holding signs, one female protester skated by on roller blades, dressed in spandex, carrying a sign reading: ‚Äúbankers need a spanking‚Äù. Hilarious.
APAs delayed travelers and even airline companies¬†begin to bemoan the effects of forced federal budget cuts on air travel, the Senate has once again turned its attention to possible ways to delay or halt sequestration.¬† And Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid might have found a solution that works on both a practical and political scale.¬† On Tuesday, Reid introduced a bill that would temporarily halt the implementation of further sequester cuts for five months. The cost would be covered by using war savings from the¬†Overseas Contingency Operation fund, which¬†contains more than $500 billion in unspent money, due to troop drawbacks and downscaling of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Republicans have already objected to the bill as a gimmick ‚Äî but Reid has an answer for that.¬† According to analysis from the Bipartisan Policy Center, the latest budget from House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) assumes a downward trajectory of OCO funding.¬† "Before Republicans dismiss these savings, they should recall that 235 House Republicans voted to use these funds to pay for the Ryan Republican budget," Reid said on the Senate floor Wednesday. "They didn‚Äôt consider it a gimmick when it served their own purposes." Ryan's staff said Tuesday that Reid was misrepresenting Ryan's budget. But in the past, his office has cited¬†the fact that the budget would save "$1 trillion from phasing down overseas contingency operations."¬† Therein lies the potential conundrum for Republicans: As public outcry builds over the cuts of the sequester ‚Äî particularly over airport delays, which affect a large number of Americans ‚Äî the GOP may be hard-pressed to oppose a measure that would temporarily ease the sequester pain while giving both sides more time to come to a larger budget resolution. A Reid aide said that the majority leader would attempt to move forward with the bill when the Senate returns from next week's recess. White House press secretary Jay Carney signaled that President Barack Obama is on board with the proposal, saying Wednesday that Obama thinks it is a "good" strategy.
Legendary short-seller Jim Chanos was on CNBC's Fast Money with Scott Wapner this afternoon, and he and his staff use a funny indicator when they're looking for shorts. It's the Sport Arena indicator. This came up while Chanos, Wapner and co. were talking about Chanos' biggest long position ‚Äî natural gas. Chanos says he "has no idea where the commodity is going," and that his long position in is actually a hedge against company specific positions. That's when Wapner asked Chanos about Chesapeake Energy and its infamous fall from grace. Chanos' response was classic. "Chesapeake Energy," he said chuckling. "Well I'm not going to talk about Chesapeake but I will tell you that we often look at companies that put their names on arenas and sports teams." Chesapeake has a stadium in downtown Oklahoma City.
It's incredible how much work goes into retrieving the tiniest amounts of gold. In its earnings announcement this morning, Barrick Gold published some mining statistics for its first quarter. As you can see from the numbers below, some sites are more rich with gold than others.† But the bottom line is that it takes tremendous amount of rock to yield just specks of gold. In Q1, it took Barrick anywhere from 2 tons to 91 tons of rock to produce just 1 ounce of gold.† NOTE: We calculated tons mined per ounce of gold by taking the inverse of Barrick's measure of ounces per ton. Barrick Gold, Business Insider
Demand for gold coins has surged following the record price plunge in gold last week. Demand is so high that the U.S. Mint Runs Out of Smallest American Eagle Gold Coin. The U.S. Mint ran out its smallest American Eagle gold coin after demand surged following the biggest drop in futures prices in 33 years. Sales of the coins weighing a 10th of an ounce were suspended after demand more than doubled in 2013 from a year earlier, the Mint said today in a statement. Total sales of American Eagles in April have almost tripled from a month earlier, according to Mint data on the website. On April 15, gold futures in New York plunged 9.3 percent, the most since 1980. Retail sales and jewelry demand soared in India, the worldís top buyer, and China, the second-biggest. Coin sales also surged in Australia. The Mint also sells 22-karat American Eagle coins of 1 ounce, half an ounce and a quarter of an ounce. The U.S. Mint suspended sales of silver coins in January for more than a week because of lack of inventory. Sales of the coins jumped to a record that month. Bullish or Bearish? It's possible to make a bullish or bearish argument out of this shortage. The bullish argument is simple: demand is strong. The bearish argument is small investors are a contrarian indicator just as they were with silver in January. I am not taking a short-term stance one way or another, so don't ask. I do like my chances longer-term as I explained at the Wine Country Conference. See Mike ìMishî Shedlock: A Brief Lesson in History. Shortage of Physical Gold? Some writers have spun this story into the message there is a shortage of physical gold. No there isn't. There is a temporary shortage of certain coins, no more no less. Divergence Between Physical Gold and Paper Gold? Other writers have noticed the price premium on small denomination coins and concluded there is some sort of "divergence between physical gold and paper gold". Once again, that's nonsense. Premiums on small denomination coins is not the same a general premium on physical gold itself. How do I know? Easy: If I went to buy or sell at GoldMoney (and GoldMoney only deals in physical metals with allocated, audited storage), I would pay the same small markup as before, based on the current futures price. Here is another way to tell. Go buy or sell a one ounce bar and see how much it costs or how much you can get. Here's a hint: your selling price will not fetch $1900 as it once did, nor would it cost you over $1900 to buy. Smackdown by Naked Shorts?Many claim blatant manipulation by naked shorts. Mercy! Under this theory, shorts piled on to the tune of 163,000 gold futures. Really? Keith Weiner tackles that theory for the Acting Man Blog in The Last Contango. Here is the pertinent chart. Mish's Global Economic Trend Analysis Weiner asks "If someone had sold 163,000 futures to cause the price to drop, then wouldnít the open interest [in futures] have risen? If Santa went down chimneys, wouldnít there be soot on his red and white uniform?" The answer to both questions is of course "yes". Instead, the chart shows a 16,000 open interest drop in gold futures and a 12,000 drop in silver futures. Ignore the Hype in Both DirectionsBulls blame every drop on manipulation and frequently tout preposterous price targets. Bears cite jewelry demand and other nonsense as if it's important (and it isn't). It is best to ignore the hype and silliness on both sides. Fundamentally, what has changed? I suggest nothing.
JCPenney is expected to spend more than $1 billion in the first quarter as it tries to execute the turnaround strategy of failed CEO Ron Johnson.¬† The investments are going toward building shop-in-shops, rolling out a collaboration with Joe Fresh, and setting up the retailer's new home goods shops, reports Evan Clark at Women's Wear Daily.¬† Ron Johnson, the Apple visionary who had a disastrous 16 months on the job at JCPenney, enacted a vigorous turnaround plan which included remodeling hundreds of stores.¬† While new CEO Mike Ullman plans to bring back the promotions that Johnson ditched, he is basically forced to finish the shop-and-shops ‚Äî¬†small boutiques that would showcase designers and give JCPenney a modern feel¬†‚Äî¬†that are already under construction.¬† Retail analysts agreed that JCPenney needed to look more modern, but execution has proven to be difficult and expensive. The shop-in-shops might not even generate that much revenue for JCPenney, activist investor Bill Ackman¬†said on CNBC¬†in January. "The problem with the vision is it's a small percentage of the store, which is the so-called 'shop' strategy," said Ackman. "It's 10-11% of the square footage." JCPenney's execution of the strategy has also been plagued by¬†alleged building permit problems. The company lost $1 billion last year alone as sales plunged. If the company burned through cash at the rate of the last 12 months, it would be broke by summer, said Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital.¬†
Last week, we told you about Houston Rockets owner Leslie Alexander's exclusive new wine club in the Hamptons. Now we have pictures of the 10,000-square-foot¬†Soci√©t√© du Vin, which is currently accepting members for $50,000 a pop. What once was an old potato barn in Bridgehampton now looks like something from a movie thanks to Hollywood set director Elvis Restaino. Joseph &amp; Curtis, a wine cellar design company, interviewed Alexander about the project and shared some pictures as well. Check them out below. Courtesy of Joseph & Curtis¬† ¬† Courtesy of Joseph & Curtis ¬† Courtesy of Joseph & Curtis ¬† Courtesy of Joseph & Curtis ¬† Courtesy of Joseph & Curtis
Italy is getting closer to putting together a grand coalition government. This has always seemed to us the most likely scenario, but the route to it has been circuitously torturous. Three considerations have led to President Napolitano granting the prerogative of forming a government to the deputy leader of the center-left, Letta. † First, the unprecedented move to grant Napolitano a second term required an agreement between the center-left and center-right.† Second, such an agreement required the resignation of Bersani, the center-left leader.† His attempt to push Prodi's candidacy for President alienated not only the center-right, but also fractured the his own coalition. † Third, Napolitano's leadership to force coalition government, and in particular his decision not to push Amato's candidacy, which some local press had tipped. Amato's nomination would have alienated several of the smaller political parties on the right and left.† In addition, in terms of public support, Amato's tax on all depositors in 1992 has not been forgotten/forgiven and the sensitivity was heightened in light of the recent Cyprus developments, where the initial attempt to tax insured depositors was successfully blocked.† Letta will meet with leaders of other political parties tomorrow and see if he can put together a cabinet that would pass a vote of confidence.† This will require a center-right candidate, though not Berlusconi,† as the deputy prime minister.† Alfano, the previous Justice Minister is a likely candidate.† Monti, the technocrat prime minister, is likely to get a portfolio.† However his austerity program was so unpopular, he is unlikely to get the finance ministry.† He may be of greater service in the foreign ministry.†† Renzi, the Florence mayor and rival of Bersani's is still a rising power and it is probably best he is not too closely associated with the coalition government.† However, the one of most notably characteristics of both Letta and Renzi is their youth.† Letta, if he does success in putting together a government, will be the youngest PM in Europe and Renzi is in the same cohort.††† With high levels of youth unemployment and the sense that austerity is about a generation transfer from the young to the old, the transition to younger political leaders is a welcome development.† We expect Letta to succeed in forming a government, which could be in place over the next week or so.†† The coalition government will be fragile and the areas of agreement limited.† Electoral reform and some economic stimulus, especially in terms of employment, are two areas of potential common ground. The initial hope is that the government could last into Q1 next year.†† Current polls shows that the center-right would win an election if it were to be called now.† The center-left is in disarray.† Renzi's star is in ascendancy, but will take some time to mend fences.† Grillo's 5-Star Movement continues to play the role of obstructionist and has indicated it will not support Letta.† However, as we have noted, as the debate goes from first principles to specifics, some under the Grillo banner may support individual measures.††  Movements, like 5-Star, needs action and drama.† A coalition government, the decline bond yields (record low 2-year yield and lowest 10-year yields in nearly 3-years) and stronger stock market (6.6% this month)† removes some fodder for the discontents, though the economy itself remains in poor shape.† February retail sales were reported earlier today.† The 0.2% decline was more than expected and extends the streak of the lack of increases to ten months.† The 4.8% year-over year decline is the worst since last April.† Italian banks do not appear to have returned much of their LTRO borrowings.† A new government and the lower market rates could encourage Italian banks to begin returning some funds.† This would add to the pace at which the ECB's balance sheet is shrinking.†        Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
LONDON (AP) ó Britain's Advertising Standards Agency has ruled that Donald Trump's anti-wind farm advert should be withdrawn in its current form. The independent advertising regulator said Wednesday that the ad from Trump International Gold Club Scotland is misleading and cannot be substantiated. The ad warns that wind farms would hurt Scottish tourism and mar Scotland's beauty. It features a photograph of a wind farm development overlooking a crowded highway in California. Trump has been fighting the wind energy project, which he believes may mar the view from his luxury golf resort in Scotland. The standards agency said the Trump resort had been told not to make claims that could not be proven and not to use "misleading imagery." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
Thomas Fisher Rare Book Library on flickrThe fancier the math one uses to justify an entrenched investment opinion, the more obscure and arcane the indicators employed, the more desperate and wrong that person is. We don't resort to algebraic equations when we're on the winning side of a trade and confident that we have gotten the broad strokes right. It is only when our backs are against the wall and the core beliefs we've publicly held have proven to be ineffective or incorrect that we resort to mining for "new" data from decades ago to re-prove our original thesis. This is more about saving face and nursing a bruised ego than it is about making money. Everyone has been there and done this, with market calls and with individual stocks. Note the daytrader who, when caught in a down stock, begins doing fundamental research on the company to make himself feel better. Or the market-timer who's got a shiny new measure each week by which he can show that the market is over-extended in one direction or the other. But the worst exemplar of this sort of thing is the pedantic genius who has such high regard for his own superior intelligence that he actually believes that it is the market - and not himself - that is in error. He could not possibly have misjudged things and, by the way, here are nine forumlas and six charts by which this simple fact will become inescapable. "Here's the mathematical proof, presented in as sophisticated a manner as possible, to show that even though I'm wrong and have been forever, I am really right after all." Do yourself a favor - check into a mental hospital and write your magic equations on the wall with your own blood and excrement. The nurses will be very impressed.
There are 4.6 million people in America who count as long-term unemployed, meaning they've been unemployed for at least 27 weeks. The plight of the long-term unemployed is the biggest economic issue facing the country. Even as the economy improves, a huge block of workers is becoming shut out of the work force, damaging society and its long-term potential. It's a much bigger deal than the debt, or any other economic issue. Here's how much politicians care, via National Journal's Niraj Chokshi: Hearing on long-term unemployment kicks off with... *one* lawmaker in attendance. twitter.com/nirajc/status/Ö
Economic data has been signaling the onset of another spring slowdown.¬† And earnings announcements have been more disappointing than usual. Meanwhile, stock market valuations based on expected earnings are at record-highs. Yet the stock market continues to show remarkable resilience as it sit near its all-time high. Stock market guru Ed Yardeni advances his thoughts. "[D]uring the current earnings season, US corporations continue to announce dividend increases and more share buybacks," he said on his blog. "Previously, I‚Äôve shown that this corporate cash flow into the stock market--which totaled $2.1 trillion for the S&amp;P 500 since stock prices bottomed during Q1-2009 through Q4-2012--has been driving the bull market since it began." "On Tuesday, Apple announced that it will more than double its program to return cash to shareholders through stock buybacks and a higher dividend, spending $100 billion on the effort through the end of 2015. Its share repurchases alone will increase to $60 billion from the $10 billion it committed previously, the largest such plan in history." From Yardeni: Dr. Ed's Blog
Bloomberg's Max Raskin and Ilan Kolet report that, at 101,200 in March, the number employed in "securities and commodities contracts†intermediation and brokerage" in NYC is the lowest on record. So it's never been harder to get a job on Wall Street than it is now. It's also never been harder to keep your job either. There are a bunch of reasons for this. Wall Street bank earnings showed that what analyst Meredith Whitney calls "the endless beat down" of legal battles has not abated and toxic assets remain on balance sheets all over the Street.  And its not like these costs are steadily decreasing over time, they're more erratic than that. Citi, for example, spent $572 million on toxic assets last quarter ó it spent $619 million on them in 2011 and 2012 combined.  That means, despite continued brutal cost cutting, banks will need to find ways to raise the cash to pay for financial crisis debt. It will be tough. New regulation, the commodities crunch, and low interest rates have decimated Wall Street revenue streams like sales and trading (down at every firm on the Street). Additionally, the housing market has yet to recover. Americans feel comfortable adding to debt on their credit cards, for example, but banks still aren't churning out mortgages the way they used to. That's probably a good thing, but still, that part of the business isn't making the money it used to. Put all this together and it's very simple: This could still get worse. More layoffs could be coming and we may not have seen the end of the blood letting. Check out Bloomberg's chart below, if you have the stomach for it.                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Wall Street                                            Jobs                                            Career                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						4																								All Comments						12									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        It's Never Been Harder To Find A Job On Wall Street    It's Never Been Harder To Find A Job On Wall Street        Jobs at an all-time low.
The postmortem for last week's historic gold price collapse continues. Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services' Director of Floor Operations, passed along a theory tied to the world of structured financial products. In short, a structured product is an investment vehicle that gives the client tailored exposure to the markets.† It usually employs derivatives like options and swaps. In his note this morning, Cashin advances the idea that pension funds invested in structured products tied to gold had safeguards in place that would force these products to unwind should the price of gold fall below $1,530/oz. Here's Cashin: Was There A Mystery Guest At Last Week's Gold Massacre? ñ As you may recall, the Friday/Monday gold massacre, had more than a few strange aspects.† As prices plunged in the pits, gold coin shops were said to be swamped with near record demand....The puzzles and conspiracy theories were still very much alive on Wednesday, the 17th, when, in a pre-dawn interview on CNBC, Brian Reynolds of Rosenblatt Securities suggested, rather matter of factly, that a good deal of the carnage in gold might have come from the unwinding of some "structured products" held by pension funds. Fascinated, I reached out to Brian to learn more about how structured products (big in the mortgage meltdown) were suddenly adding leverage (and danger) to the gold market. Apparently, it all starts with an old familiar premise ñ pension funds and others are desperate for yield and greater return in this ongoing age of QE and zero interest rates. Say oil has averaged $95 over weeks or months.† The wizards might structure kick-out triggers at, perhaps, $75 and $115.† Should oil fall below $75, the structured contract would terminate, leaving the issuing bank with an unexpected, and unwelcome position in oil, in a falling market.† Reynolds says the urge to dump that position is compounded by balance sheet limits in Dodd-Frank. Okay, back to gold.† Here is what Brian wrote, somewhat prophetically, back on February 21st, long before the waterfall in gold began: The caps and floors associated with structured finance tend to leave participants long or short at the worst possible time. We remind people that there are likely caps and floors associated with structured finance positions in gold around the 1530 and 1800 areas, so it should not be unusual to see rumors pick up as the metal nears those areas. If the floor gets broken decisively, participants may find themselves unexpectedly long, and rush to quickly dispose of those unwanted positions. When gold broke through 1530, the cascade began.† How much of the freefall had to do with structured products?† No way to tell just yet.† We're still digging.† It's a topic worth pursuing since the Bank for International Settlements says the value of commodity related contracts may be in the multi-trillions. Should this be true, then it means at least some pension funds are continuing to get banged up. BlackRock's Chart of the Week highlights the falling funded status of pension funds: BlackRock
commons.wikimedia.orgFor the past five years, a fierce war of words and policies has been fought in America and other economically challenged countries around the world.†On one side were economists and politicians who wanted to increase government spending to offset weakness in the private sector. This "stimulus" spending, economists like Paul Krugman argued, would help reduce unemployment and prop up economic growth until the private sector healed itself and began to spend again.†On the other side were economists and politicians who wanted to cut spending to reduce deficits and "restore confidence." Government stimulus, these folks argued, would only increase debt loads, which were already alarmingly high. If governments did not cut spending, countries would soon cross a deadly debt-to-GDP threshold, after which economic growth would be permanently impaired. The countries would also be beset by hyper-inflation, as bond investors suddenly freaked out and demanded higher interest rates. Once government spending was cut, this theory went, deficits would shrink and "confidence" would return.†This debate has not just been academic. It has affected the global economy, and, with it, the jobs and livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people.†Those in favor of economic stimulus won a brief victory in the depths of the financial crisis, with countries like the U.S. implementing stimulus packages. But the so-called "Austerians" fought back. And in the past several years, government policies in Europe and the U.S. have been shaped by the belief that governments had to cut spending or risk collapsing under the weight of staggering debts.†Over the course of this debate, evidence has gradually piled up that, however well-intentioned they might be, the "Austerians" were wrong. Japan, for example, has continued to increase its debt-to-GDP ratio well beyond the supposed collapse threshold, and its interest rates have remained stubbornly low. More notably, in Europe, countries that embraced (or were forced to adopt) austerity, like the U.K. and Greece, have endured multiple recessions (and, in the case of Greece, a depression). Moreover, because smaller economies produced less tax revenue, the countries' deficits also remained strikingly high.†So the empirical evidence increasingly favored the Nobel-prize winning Paul Krugman and the other economists and politicians arguing that governments could continue to spend aggressively until economic health was restored.†And then, last week, a startling discovery obliterated one of the key premises upon which the whole austerity movement was based.†An academic paper that found that a ratio of 90%-debt-to-GDP was a threshold above which countries experienced slow or no economic growth was found to contain an arithmetic calculation error.†Once the error was corrected, the "90% debt-to-GDP threshold" instantly disappeared. Higher government debt levels still correlated with slower economic growth, but the relationship was not nearly as pronounced. And there was no dangerous point-of-no-return that countries had to avoid exceeding at all costs.†The discovery of this simple math error eliminated one of the key "facts" upon which the austerity movement was based.†It also, in my opinion, settled the "stimulus vs. austerity" argument once and for all.†The argument is over. Paul Krugman has won. The only question now is whether the folks who have been arguing that we have no choice but to cut government spending while the economy is still weak will be big enough to admit that.†The discovery of the calculation error, after all, came only a few months after the United States voluntarily cut spending through a government "sequester." †This sequester is hurting the U.S. economy, and it is also depriving American citizens of some basic services ó†like a fully staffed air-traffic control system†ó†that most first-world countries regard as a given. †And with America's government deficit already shrinking (thanks to the rollback of some tax cuts and a modest increase in taxes), it is now even clearer that the sequester did not have to be adopted.†Yes, at some point, the American government needs to come together and figure out a smart long-term plan for containing health care and military costs, which are the real budget-busters. We are not facing an immediate crisis, however, and this long-term plan does not need to be adopted tomorrow. ††And in the meantime, for the sake of the country, it would be nice if our government came together and agreed to restore full funding for basic services.†Because the current state of government dysfunction in the United States is not just economically harmful. It is also embarrassing, depressing, and based on a premise that is now demonstrably false. SEE ALSO: The Grad Student Who Discovered The Truth About Debt Explains Why The Famous Paper Was Wrong
One of Britain's biggest companies has made millions of pounds selling goods to Iran, including to a state-owned firm that supplies the regime's nuclear programme. Glencore, a commodity trading house run by the billionaire Ivan Glasenberg, traded $659m (¬£430m) of goods, including aluminium oxide, to Iran last year, the Guardian has established. The company, which is one of the biggest businesses in the FTSE 100 and has a market value more than three times that of Marks &amp; Spencer, has admitted that some of its aluminium oxide ended up in the hands of Iranian Aluminium Company (Iralco). Trafigura, another commodity trading house, has also admitted to trading an unspecified aluminium oxide (also known as alumina) with Iralco in the past. The International Atomic Energy Agency has named Iralco as supplying aluminium to Iran Centrifuge Technology Company (Tesa), which is part of the Atomic Energy Organisation of Iran (AEOI). Aluminium oxide is an important material in gas centrifuges used to enrich uranium. At the time of the Glencore and Trafigura trades with Iralco, it was not illegal or a breach of sanctions to supply Iran with alumina. It is unknown whether Glencore or Trafigura's alumina passed from Iralco to Tesa, or whether it was used in centrifuge construction. Since 2006, AEOI has been subject to UN sanctions designed to prevent Iran's nuclear armament ambitions. Trading with Tesa has been specifically banned under US, EU and UK sanctions since July 2010. Iralco was added to the EU sanctions list in December 2012. Glencore said it "ceased transactions" with Iralco immediately when it learned of its links with Tesa, and the last trade was in October 2012. "Prior to EU sanctions in December 2012, we were not aware of a link/contract between Iralco and Tesa," the company said in a statement. Glencore said it is "reliant on the relevant regulatory bodies/governments to advise us on developments in who we can/can't do business with". Tehran, which some experts say already has enough enriched uranium to make several nuclear weapons, is in the middle of upgrading its stock of more than 10,000 centrifuges. The IAEA said Iran is replacing outdated centrifuges with thousands of more powerful IR-2m models. Experts at the Institute for Science and International Security (Isis) in London said: "Iran is trying to replace maraging [super-strong] steel end-caps with high strength aluminium end-caps." Mark Fitzpatrick, director of Isis's nonproliferation and disarmament programme, said the new centrifuges could enrich uranium four to five times faster than the existing ones. Iran insists its enriched material is for peaceful use, not for nuclear weapons, but it has refused to allow IAEA inspectors into several of its atomic facilities. The question surrounding Glencore's role in unintentionally potentially helping arm a nuclear Iran comes as Obama ramps up pressure on Tehran to end its atomic weapons programme. This month, the US secretary of state, John Kerry, said: "We understand the nature of the threat of Iran. And as the president has said many times ‚Äì he doesn't bluff. He is serious. We will stand with Israel against this threat and with the rest of the world, who have underscored that all we are looking for is Iran to live up to its international obligations." Mark Wallace, a former US ambassador to the UN, said Glencore's dealings with Iran were "completely unacceptable", adding: "We might expect this from a Russian or Chinese company, but the truth is that even those companies usually stay away from this sort of exposure." Glencore said it "complies with applicable laws and regulations, including applicable sanctions. We closely monitor all new legal developments to ensure that we continue to be in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including applicable sanctions." Details of the firm's dealings with Iralco were leaked to the media in February, but the company declined to specify how much the deals were worth. The Guardian has learned that Glencore traded $659m worth of metals, wheat and coal with Iranian entities during 2012. Buried deep in its annual report, one of Glencore's US affiliates, Century Aluminium, 46% owned by Glencore, states: "During 2012 non-US affiliates of the largest stockholder of the company [Glencore] entered into sales contracts for wheat and coal as well as sale and purchase contracts for metal oxides and metals with Iranian entities, which are either fully or majority owned by the GOI [government of Iran]." Glencore declined to state how much of the $659m it dealt with Iran in 2012 was related to alumina/aluminium. The trades were not illegal or against sanctions at the time. It is not the first time Glencore's activities have attracted controversy. Last year the head of its food trading business said the worst drought to hit the US since the 1930s would be "good for Glencore" because it would lead to opportunities to exploit soaring prices. It has also attracted attention by selling more than ¬£50m worth of wheat to the World Food Programme. Trafigura, which came to global political attention when it was revealed that a licensed independent contractor of a ship it had chartered dumped tonnes of toxic oil slops in Ivory Coast, said: "We can confirm that Trafigura has traded with Iralco in the past. In October 2011, a physical swap agreement was reached whereby Trafigura provided alumina to Iralco in return for aluminium for Trafigura to export worldwide. No deliveries have been made or exports received since new EU sanctions were published in December 2012. Trafigura Group companies are compliant with national and international law where applicable." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
WeWhat does one ask the Oracle of Omaha? Investor Doug Kass will show us all next week at Berkshire Hathaway's investor day. For now, according to Bloomberg, he's doing some important things to prepare for the face-off. Buffett selected Kass, who manages the firm Seabreeze Partners Management, after putting out a call to the investment world. He said he was looking for Berkshire bears ‚Äî at least one contrarian to ask him questions during the yearly pilgrimage of Berkshire shareholders to Nebraska. From Bloomberg: ‚ÄúWe can‚Äôt lose sight that this company, and Mr. Buffett as a person, has been combed over with questions,‚Äù said Kass. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs not like this is a breeze. I think he expects something of me, and I don‚Äôt want to disappoint him... ‚ÄúI do know Mr. Munger is going to call me a chump for being short his stock,‚Äù Kass said. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm ready for the put- down. I have thick skin.‚Äù We wouldn't either. Kass told Bloomberg he's spending about 10 hours on every question and reading Alice Schroeder's massive biography on Buffett, The Snowball.Maybe he should be doing more, though. This is like going to see the Wizard of Oz.
Daniel Berehulak/Getty ImagesToday's release of March durable goods orders data did not paint a pretty picture. Total orders fell 5.7%, orders excluding transportation fell 1.4%, and nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft and parts (a.k.a. "core capex") grew a meager 0.2% (all worse than expected). To top it off, all of the February numbers were revised down substantially. So, the question going forward, says Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson, "is how much of the miss is attributable to external factors compared to domestic issues." In an email following the release, Wilkinson argues it's likely the rest of the world that is dragging the U.S. economic data down at the moment: Arguably the international headwinds are tougher than those related to the onset of sequester. According to most surveys, business leaders seem prepared to maintain an optimistic attitude about the future.†But one thing is for sure: The domestic situation must at least be reinforced by firmer demand once the sequester becomes an accepted way of managing the deficit. Finally, it is important to note that while orders fell, both capital goods demand held up as did shipments. While it might be a stretch to rely purely on buoyancy of shipments as evidence of a silver lining from the March report, the road ahead may rise to deliver a rebound particularly if domestic demand withstands the sequester, as we believe it will. Markit's flash PMI reading out yesterday seems to indicate the opposite ñ domestic demand growth is slowing, while international demand growth is picking up. The new orders sub-component of yesterday's PMI release fell sharply to 51.8 from February's 55.4 reading, while the new export orders sub-component actually increased to 52.2 from 51.8. In other words, according to Markit's flash PMI report, international demand growth is now outpacing total demand growth. BofA rates guru David Woo opined recently that the market is underestimating the effects of sequestration on domestic demand. In a note to clients, he wrote: In our view, the market continues to underestimate the headwinds associated with the implementation of the sequester. Our US economist team estimate that this will amount to about $50bn worth of fiscal tightening over the next six months, equivalent to an annualized rate of $100bn. If we were to assume that this will primarily take the form of reduced wages/salaries of government employees and contractors and that most of the hit will occur in Q2, this could result in a very dramatic shock to household income. This is why our US economics team continue to maintain their below consensus GDP growth forecast for the next two quarters. Regardless of where the weakness is, it seems like investors have begun to position for a global slowdown in 2013.
A week and a half ago, Bitcoin crashed and fell to the mid-$60s (it had been in the mid $200s). After that spike and collapse, things quieted down and people stopped talking about it as much. Since then? Huge surge: It's now at $158, which is a bit less than a triple from the lows. From Clarkmoody:                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Bitcoin                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						19									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        While Everyone Stopped Paying Attention, Bitcoin Went On Another Insane Surge    While Everyone Stopped Paying Attention, Bitcoin Went On Another Insane Surge        Huge tear.
Apple's stock price has fallen by 40% over the past six months, vaporizing almost $300 billion of market value. After an initial euphoric spike on Apple's calendar first quarter results, the stock has resumed its decline. There are many reasons for this collapse, and most of them are encapsulated in the following two charts. First, as this chart of Apple gross margin shows, Apple's profit margin has dropped dramatically over the past year (this chart does not even include Apple's 37.5% margin in the first quarter). Y Charts This margin compression, combined with a sharp slowdown in Apple's revenue growth has caused Apple's earnings to start actually shrinking. Wall Street does not pay much for companies whose earnings are shrinking. (And note that the projected margin for the June quarter calls for a lower-still ~36% margin.) Second, the growth of Apple's biggest and most profitable product, the iPhone, has hit a wall. Last quarter, iPhone sales grew only 7%, which was well below the estimated 30% growth rate for the smartphone industry as a whole. The growth of smartphone market has now moved out of rich developed markets and into poorer emerging markets. Apple's distribution is limited in these markets, and its products are simply too expensive to compete. Kamelia Angelova /Business Insider The good news, such as it is, is that the gross-profit chart also shows that Apple's extraordinary gross margin of last year appears to have been an aberration.  The pent-up demand for the iPhone 4S, which featured only minor re-engineering from the iPhone 4 (and therefore was extremely profitable), caused Apple's gross profit margin to temporarily explode upwards in late 2011 and 2012. Now, with iPhone sales slowing sharply, and a completely re-tooled (and lower-margin) iPhone 5 as the primary phone, Apple's profit margin has returned to trend. The bad news is that the fundamental trends that are compressing Apple's gross margin are likely to continue to compress it. And Apple's comments on its quarterly conference call suggest that the company is not planning to release any new products in the next 3-6 months that could re-accelerate revenue growth. The basic trends that are causing Apple's margin to compress are: So there is nothing on the immediate horizon that is likely to stop the declining-margin trend.† At least for the next 3-6 months, moreover, there appears to be nothing in Apple's product pipeline that will likely re-accelerate revenue growth. When the new versions of the iPhone and iPad arrive, they will not likely be major upgrades to the current versions. And no exciting new products are expected until 2014 (e.g., a bigger iPhone, a TV, an iWatch). So it will likely be at least 9 months before Apple's revenue starts growing again. Put all that together, and the near-term news is not good. Apple is doing the right thing by reducing prices and producing more affordable products--this is the smart long-term play. But investors do not like compressing margins. And the combination of compressing margins plus slow or no revenue growth (or, worse, shrinkage) is particularly unappealing. The (dim) silver lining for investors is that, below $400, Apple's stock is officially a "value" stock. It will appeal to investors who care less about growth than they do about cash flow. And the company now pays a very attractive 3% dividend. So even as "growth" investors continue to abandon Apple, it should find some fans among the value crowd. SEE ALSO: The Bull Case For AppleDisclosure: Last week, when Apple's stock crashed to a new low of $390,†I bought some. I think stock-picking is an idiotic strategy for individual investors, and I almost never do it. But, sometimes, for fun, I put my money where my mouth is, and I bought Apple because I thought it was cheap (see "The Bull Case" above). Based on the margin and product outlook described above, this may prove to be a rash and expensive bit of fun.
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithDurable goods orders data are out. Total orders fell 5.7% in March versus expectations of a smaller, 3.0% decline. Orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft and parts (a.k.a. "core capex") rose 0.2%. Economists were looking for a 0.3% increase. February's 5.7% growth in total orders was revised down to 4.3%. February core capex was revised down to -4.8% from -2.7%. Click here for the full release &gt;
The market's reaction to Apple's earnings was not good this morning. The stock was down 3% pre-market, sending shares to $393. This drop is actually worse than it sounds. After earnings were released, Apple was up as much as 5% after-hours. But when people digested the report, and listened to Tim Cook on the earnings call, it started crumbling. However, as the day continued, Apple's stock fought back to being pretty much flat. Investors are coming to grips with the fact that the once high-flying company is grinding to a halt. Instead of being a story of hyper-growth, it's now a cash cow. Apple says it has new products in the works, but they're not coming until the Fall. Even when those new products hit, they're not going to be as lucrative or successful as the iPhone. Because Apple generates so much money, a return to big growth is nearly impossible. So, now you have a company that is neither here, nor there. It's not a safe bet because technology is unpredictable, and this management team has not proven an ability to produce visionary products. It's not a high growth tech company either. Throw in the fact that Apple issued really soft guidance, which is sending analysts scrambling to readjust their models, and it's not going to be easy for the stock to bounce back today.
Wikimedia CommonsDave Lutz at Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the topics that people are talking about today. Good Morning - Futures are rolling off their best levels, and the DAX is up only slightly as EU Fins come under profit taking pressure ‚Äì losing 1.5%. ¬†The Nikkei surged 2.3% on the back of a weaker Yen ‚Äì China rebounded as GSAM says Chinese stocks are becoming attractive ‚Äì Aussie jumped 1.7% as a low inflation print boosts Rate Cut chances ‚Äì Sensex was unchanged as weight of Expiry there builds into tomorrow. The ‚Ç¨ has a slight bid, despite increased chatter of a ECB rate cut on a German Ifo Miss - Yen remains weaker to the $, but nearing critical resistance around Y99.80 - Yields in Spain and Italy are wider, as are US, as Japanese Investors shifted money back towards JGB‚Äôs overnight. ¬†The NZ$ is much stronger after refraining from a rate cut overnight (NZ$ the #2 FX used in the ‚ÄúCarry Trade‚Äù) - The ‚Ç¨ bid has the DXY under pressure, a natural tailwind for commodities ‚Äì We have a Nice rebound in Copper, up 2%, while Gold is up 60bp and continues to outperform Silver ‚Äì Eyes will be on ABX today. ¬†The Oil Complex is slightly higher, as Brent continues to gain ground over $100 - WTI discount to Brent is out 70c overnight, as more negative Keystone headlines mount. For more on what's going on today, see here &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsNearly 2 months after the election, Italy is getting a new Prime Minister. After a tumultuous series of negotiations, the details of which are too arcane for anyone to care about, liberal Enrico Letta has been selected by the President to try to form a new government. He's not officially the PM yet, but he will be, as he seems to have the blessing of both parties. Anyway! He's already making waves, by taking on Europe's austerity obsession. *Italy's Letta: EU Austerity Policies No Longer Sufficient [dj]&gt;&gt; *opens popcorn* Finally some hope for Europe.
REUTERS/Alex GallardoGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Italian leftist Enrico Letta was set to be nominated to be the new prime minister on Wednesday, bringing to an end a two-month deadlock on forming a new government with the launch of a coalition between right, centre and left. President Giorgio Napolitano, who was re-elected to a second term just last week after an agreement between the main parties, summoned Letta to the presidential palace for the expected nomination. Letta was seen arriving for the meeting. The 46-year-old already has extensive government experience and is seen as a "post-ideological" moderate able to bring together the bickering parties that had held up a government deal and bring politics closer to ordinary people. A former leader of the youth wing of the centre-right Christian Democratic party, Letta is now the deputy leader of the Democratic Party, which is badly divided over joining with Silvio Berlusconi loyalists in government. Adding to Letta's cross-party credentials is the fact that his uncle, Gianni Letta, has been Berlusconi's right-hand man for many years. The youthful Letta is expected to select ministers and formally accept the nomination within days, with analysts predicting the government could be fully installed by the end of this week. The eurozone's third largest economy has been mired in a bitter political crisis ever since a general election in which a centre-left coalition led by the Democratic Party came first but failed to win an overall parliamentary majority. The gridlock has spooked European capitals and investors had warned that prolonged uncertainty could lead to instability on the financial markets for a recession-ravaged economy that is struggling to keep its public finances in check. "Constant conflict is a luxury that Italy cannot afford. The government has to be one of national pacification," said Massimo Franco, a columnist for the top-selling Corriere della Sera daily. The Democratic Party (PD), which had previously ruled out an alliance with Berlusconi's rightist People of Freedom party, said on Tuesday it was open to any option suggested by the 87-year-old president. "A grand coalition government is a bitter medicine for the PD," said Stefano Folli, columnist for business daily Il Sole 24 Ore. Berlusconi has already said his party will support the president's choice, as has the centrist Civic Choice group led by Prime Minister Mario Monti. The combinaton of right, centre and left mirrors the loose alliance that backed Monti's reform-oriented technocratic government until Berlusconi pulled his party's support for it in December, precipitating early elections. The PD has been badly divided since the inconclusive result of the February 24-25 polls and its entire leadership resigned on Friday after two of its presidential nominations failed to get voted because of a rebellion within party ranks. Napolitano was eventually re-elected on Saturday -- the first Italian president to stay on -- after the main political parties pleaded with him to resolve their differences. At his swearing-in on Monday, Napolitano accused the parties of being "deaf" to the calls for reform from ordinary Italians and of committing "mistakes, omissions and irresponsibilities". Napolitano threatened to resign if the parties continued stalling and said they should form a government "without delay" based on a realistic assessment of their strength in parliament. The Five Star Movement, a new protest party that won a quarter of the vote and came third in the elections, said after talks with Napolitano on Tuesday that it would lead the opposition. Several smaller parties on both right and left also said they would stay out of the new cabinet. Monti's government remains in office until a new one is formed but it has only interim powers. Business leaders, trade unionists and the Catholic Church have urged politicians to act quickly as a painful recession forces firms to shut down and leaves many Italians struggling to make ends meet. Stocks have been performing well in recent days as the long political crisis has drawn to an end but stocks in Milan responded negatively to reports of Letta's expected nomination, with the benchmark index down by 0.6 percent. The favourite for the nomination had been Giuliano Amato, a 74-year-old two-time former prime minister and academic who has a strong reputation in Europe. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Alex Davies / Business InsiderFord's Q1 earnings results are out. The company reported earnings of $0.41 per share, beating consensus estimates for $0.38 EPS. Revenues came in at $35.8 billion, also ahead of expectations. The stock is currently up 2.3% in pre-market trading. Below is a summary of the data from the release: DEARBORN, Mich., April 24, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] today reported first quarter 2013 pre-tax profit¬†of $2.1¬†billion, driven by record results from North America and continued solid performance from Ford Credit. Total company first quarter pre-tax profit of $2.1 billion, or 41 cents per share, was $147 million lower than a year ago, more than explained by Europe and South America. Net income for the first quarter of $1.6¬†billion, or 40¬†cents per share, was $215 million higher than a year ago.¬† Ford generated positive Automotive operating-related cash flow of $700 million in the first quarter ‚Äî the 12th¬†consecutive quarter of positive performance ‚Äî with strong liquidity of $34.5 billion unchanged from year-end 2012. As part of Ford's previously announced strategy to de-risk its pension obligations, the company made $1.8 billion in cash contributions to its worldwide funded plans during the quarter. This included $1.2 billion of discretionary contributions, in line with Ford's long-term pension de-risking strategy.¬†¬† Dividends paid in the quarter totaled about $400 million. "Our strong first quarter results provide further proof that our One Ford plan continues to deliver," said Alan Mulally, Ford president and CEO. "Our plan remains centered on serving customers in all markets around the world with a full family of vehicles ‚Äî small, medium and large; cars, utilities and trucks ‚Äî each with the very best quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart design and value." Click here for the full release &gt;
The "spring slowdown" is here again. As discussed earlier (see post), the previous three years saw a strong start in the US, followed by a slowdown in economic activity, particularly in manufacturing. Markit What's especially troubling this year is that we are also seeing a corresponding slowdown in other major economies that were thought to be in good shape, namely Germany ... Markit ... and China. Markit Treasury yields declined to the lowest level this year in response. This move reflects the bet that given the soft patch in the economy, the Fed will continue buying government paper for some time to come. Investing.com ¬† Read more at Soberlook.com ---&gt;
Last year I made the case that the Fed's failure to keep nominal income growth expectations stable was a dereliction of duty: [We] have long made the case that a nominal GDP (NGDP) level target would firmly anchor the expected growth path of nominal income. ¬†Doing so, in turn, would stabilize current nominal spending since households and firms are forward looking in their decision making. ¬†For example, holding wealth constant, households generally will put off purchasing a new car or renovating their homes if they expect their nominal incomes to fall and vice versa. ¬†This is why Scott Sumner likes to say monetary policy works with long and variable leads. This¬†understanding implies, therefore,¬†that the reason for nominal spending remaining below is its pre-crisis trend is that the Fed has failed to restore expected nominal income to its pre-crisis path. This failure amounts to a¬†passive¬†tightening of¬†¬†monetary policy. Since then, the Fed has improved its management of expectations by introducing the conditional asset purchasing program of QE3. While this program is progress, it is still far from adequate. This can be easily seen by looking at data from a question on the University of Michigan/Thompson Reuters Survey of¬†Consumers where households are asked how much their dollar (i.e. nominal) family incomes are expected to change over the next 12 months. The figure below shows the average response for this question up through March, 2013: Macro and Other Market Musings The fall of household dollar income expectations and its failure to fully recover is stunning. It suggests that the now lower expected future income growth is depressing current household spending, a point forcefully made by Mariacristina De Nardi, Eric French, and David Benson of the Chicago Fed. Digging into the data, they find that expected nominal income growth¬†deteriorates across all age groups, educational levels, and income levels over the past few years. This is not some sectoral-specific development, it is a systemic nominal problem. They also find that the collapse in expected dollar income growth explains much of the decline in aggregate consumption since the crisis erupted. But there is more. The figure also indicates that real debt burdens are higher than many households expected prior to the crisis. Look at the dashed line. It shows the average expected dollar income growth rate over the 'Great Moderation' period was 5.3%. Now imagine it is early-to-mid 2000s and you are taking out a 30-year mortgage and determining how much debt you handle. An important factor in this calculation is your expected income growth over the next 30 years. If you were average, then according to this data you would be forecasting about 5% growth rate. But that did not happened. Household dollar incomes declined and are expected to remain low. Nominal debt, however, has not adjusted as quickly leaving higher than expected real debt burdens for households. This is something that the Fed could correct. QE3 is a step in the right direction, but more needs to be done with this program to raise expected nominal income growth. One way to do this is to make the size of the asset purchases conditional. That is, instead of conducting fixed $85 billion purchases every month until the economic targets are hit, vary the size of the purchases depending on the progress of the recovery. For example, if inflation and unemployment are not moving fast enough to their target, then increase the dollar size of the of asset purchase and vice versa. For if $85 billion is not enough for the nominal economy to gain traction, then it must be the case that money demand is rising enough to offset the benefits of the $85 billion injection. If this conditionality were added and widely understood, QE3 would better manage expectations and pack a larger punch. No more dereliction of duty.
I was reading this quote by Ron Paul who was on Bloomberg earlier today where he discusses Bitcoin: ìTo tell you the truth, itís little bit too complicated. If I canít put it in my pocket, I have some reservations about that. But it has been designed in the free market. If it is a means of exchange, it would not ever be illegal. You shouldnít regulate it in the free market, but I do not think it fits the definition of money, which has been around for 6000 years. People want to see something they can know what it is, they can define it, touch it and put in their pocket. If you do not have a computer and someone running the computer and calculations, you donít have it. I am not a big supporter of that, but I am not opposed to it. I admit, I do not fully understand what is going on with it.î Well, thatís a new definition for money I guess: Money n.†pl.†mon∑eys†or†mon∑ies Okay, obviously I am being a bit of a smart ass, but I think this is really backwards thinking. †Money is not necessarily something physical. †It really never has been. †Money is first and foremost a means of final payment. †That can come in many forms. In primitive societies like ape societies it exists in the form of promises ñ you scratch my back, Iíll scratch yours. †The physical form of money arose as a tangible form of record keeping that helped resolve the lack of trust that goes with something like a verbal bond. †If I require a note or coin before I give you a back scratch youíre essentially indebted to me and I have proof of this. †You canít just skip out on your end of the deal. †So, instead of promises, we created physical things that represented ways to get your back scratched. Today, our money systems have evolved into highly complex electronic systems where the means of payment †now exist mostly as records in computer systems. And those records are backed up by a structured legal system and a regulated banking system in order to give you access to the economy of back scratches. †Money is increasingly moving away from something you can put in your pocket. †I know itís nice to be able to touch and feel your money, but that is not a prerequisite for defining what money is or can be. †In fact, as our legal system and banking system become more and more efficient (one could even say the legal system is overly onerous in many ways) itís rendering physical forms of money unnecessary. Of course, Bitcoin has the problem of not having a legal system and a structured payment system to support it. †So it will never be seen as a broadly accepted medium of exchange. †But thatís a different storyÖ.
Colbertnation.comIt's been a very bad week for the austerity movement. Austerity has been discredited as a path to economic prosperity for awhile. But a real breakthrough came last week, when a paper written by a graduate student (UMass Amherst's Thomas Herndon) debunked the famous Reinhart &amp; Rogoff study, which had claimed that growth slows precipitously when a country's debt rises above 90% of GDP. Since then, more dominos have tumbled. In Europe, we've seen a backlash against austerity from various names, whether it's the International Monetary Fund criticizing the U.K. fund manager¬†Bill Gross doing the same, or European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso talking about the limits to austerity. And now all of this has broken through to the mainstream with last night's Colbert Report, where that grad student, Thomas Herndon, was the guest. Colbert had two segments devoted to making the austerians look like total laughingstocks. One was the actual interview with Herndon. The other came as part of a news comment, where he mocked Paul Ryan and "Rogaine and Braveheart," along with several other mean nicknames. It was one of those cultural moments. Suddenly one side just looks like fools in the national media. Incidentally, this is exactly what Paul Krugman predicted last week would be the significance of Herndon's paper: The point is that the next time Olli Rehn, or George Osborne, or Paul Ryan declares, sententiously, that we must have austerity because serious economists (i.e., not Krugman and friends) tell us that debt is a terrible thing, people in the audience will snicker ‚Äî which they should have been doing all along, but now it has become socially acceptable. Below are the two clips, the first being the interview with Herndon, and the second is the broader discussion of how influential Reinhart and Rogoff were on politics. The Colbert Report Get More: Colbert Report Full Episodes,Indecision Political Humor,Video Archive The Colbert ReportGet More: Colbert Report Full Episodes,Political Humor &amp; Satire Blog,Video Archive
Flickr / heatingoilWe had a deflation scare last week. Commodities got absolutely hammered. Stocks had two really notable down days, especially last Monday when the Dow shed over 200 points. People were constructing these arguments along the lines of: Chinese growth is flagging. Europe is in a tailspin. And the US is just starting to feel its sequester-induced slowdown. This week has a totally different vibe. Now the story is about: The US is still looks okay (relative to the world), Europe may start to ease up on austerity. And China, well, maybe it's still doing badly. And that change is reflected in the stock market, where the Nikkei just broke to a new five-year high. European markets are shrugging off bad news left and right. In fact, Europe had one of its best days in ages yesterday, after a bad report from Germany on manufacturing. Today the German Ifo business climate index (a survey) also missed expectations, and yet stocks are rallying. Last week's chill wind is gone for now.
Gary Soup / FlickrYep, it's really starting to look like the bull market is back. Last week markets were going really wobbly, and everyone was talking about DEFLATION and all that. Now: Markets are gaining and things are back on course. Japan rallied to a new five-year high, gaining over 2.3%. China added 1.5%. Europe is green across the board, and US futures are higher. All the commodities have a bid as well. This comes after a 150 point up day on the Dow yesterday.
