Ron/ShamirTwo Israeli mathematicians are retracting their claim that there was a link between Bitcoin founder Satoshi Nakamoto and the man accused of running illicit online marketplace The Silk Road. "We no longer believe that the very early Founder account we identified in the full ¬†bitcoin transaction graph belongs to Satoshi Nakamoto," Dorit Ron and Adi Shamir of the Weizmann Institute¬†said in a statement. "We will revise our paper accordingly." The pair¬†had traced back transactions linked from a Bitcoin account belonging to Ross Ulbricht, who was arrested in October and charged with operating The Silk Road. Although both parties in a Bitcoin transaction are anonymous, the addresses of their accounts, as well as the amount and date of the transaction, are published on Bitcoin's master ledger, called the¬†Blockchain.¬†So it is possible to excavate the transaction history for every address listed on the Blockchain.¬†The pair eventually came to an account created in the earliest days of Bitcoin. They characterized this finding thusly:¬† "The short path we found ... suggests (but does not prove) the existence of a surprising link between the two mysterious figures of the Bitcoin community, Satoshi Nakamoto and DPR." But within 24 hours of the paper getting published on the Internet,¬†reddit user iwilcox debunked the implication of that "surprising link": the account the researchers attribute to Satoshi actually belongs to one Dustin Trammell. A 35-year-old computer security researcher and founder of the Austin (Texas) Hackers Association, Trammell has repeatedly denied he is Satoshi, an assertion supported by exchanges he had with the "real" (though stil anonymous) Satoshi in 2009. Trammell also posted a response to his blog today explaining how an account linked to Ulbricht ended up making a transfer to one of his accounts. He says the account was randomly assigned to him by the Mt. Gox exchange as the destination for a 1,000 BTC he planned to use for trading purposes. Since Mt. Gox is an exchange, not a peer-to-peer trading site, he would have had no way of knowing the coins eventually found their way to the Silk Road. This evening, Ron and Shamir responded: "It had just been brought to our attention that Dustin D. Trammell had published a post at¬†http://blog.dustintrammell.com/2013/11/26/i-am-not-satoshi/¬†in which he details his very early association with the bitcoin scheme, states that he is the owner of the account which received some of the first batches of mined bitcoins, and describes how he deposited ¬†them into his account at MtGox from which they found their way in a few short hops and without his involvement into DPR's account. We find this post completely believable, and thus we no longer believe that the very early Founder account we identified in the full ¬†bitcoin transaction graph belongs to Satoshi Nakamoto. We will revise our paper accordingly." The paper still has some merit. Ron and Shamir also concluded the FBI only got about 22% of the Bitcoin commissions Ulbricht allegedly would have been taking from running Silk Road, and that he may have been able to ditch a sizable chunk of them: "...the months of May, June and September 2013 are completely missing from [the list of Ulbricht-related transactions]. Assuming that [Ulbricht] continued to receive at least some commissions from Silk Road during these months, it seems likely that he was simply using a different computer during these periods, which the FBI had not found or was unable to penetrate. In addition, it is evident that about a third of the bitcoins in these accounts, were moved out prior to his arrest. ¬† The impulse to track down the person or persons behind Bitcoin remains intense, though hardcore Bitcoin evangelists insist the quest is a distraction from making sure the digital currency gains broad acceptance. Either way, we'll probably have to keep looking. Here is the full text of Ron and Shamir's statement: It had just been brought to our attention that Dustin D. Trammell had published a post at¬†http://blog.dustintrammell.com/2013/11/26/i-am-not-satoshi/¬†in which he details his very early association with the bitcoin scheme, states that he is the owner of the account which received some of the first batches of mined bitcoins, and describes how he deposited ¬†them into his account at MtGox from which they found their way in a few short hops and without his involvement into DPR's account. We find this post completely believable, and thus we no longer believe that the very early Founder account we identified in the full ¬†bitcoin transaction graph belongs to Satoshi Nakamoto. We will revise our paper accordingly.We would like to add a few comments. First of all, the main topic of our paper (which is clearly described in its title) is an analysis of DPR's activities. However, all the recent media attention was focused on this one detail, which was an interesting tidbit we discovered along the way. When we noticed the existence of this very short path (which apparently was not previously known to the bitcoin community), we decided to include it in our paper and predicted that "We are sure that analyzing this figure will start a very vigorous debate in the bitcoin community". This turned out to be an understatement, but at least we are happy that the public discussion that followed had uncovered some fascinating facts about the early history of the bitcoin scheme.A second point was that we were extremely careful in our choice of words. The owner of one end of this very short chain was identified by the FBI as DPR. The owner of the other end was not known, but one important clue was that it received bitcoins which were mined only four days after regular mining operations in the bitcoin scheme had commenced. Since the bitcoin community believes that the vast majority of the first 20,000 or so blocks were mined by Satoshi Nakamoto himself, we had a valid reason to believe that this account could have been owned by Satoshi. We wrote in our paper that "The short path we found (which is depicted in Figure 6) suggests (but does not prove) the existence of a surprising link between the two mysterious figures of the Bitcoin community, Satoshi Nakamoto and DPR". We were also careful to annotate the figure with a generic "Founder account" rather than with an explicit "Satoshi's account". Lacking a better explanation, this was a reasonable assumption to make based on the facts which were known to us at that time. Now that a better explanation exists, we no longer believe that the Founder account at the beginning of the chain belonged to Satoshi.A third point is methodological. No one had disputed our facts, only the possible interpretation of these facts that we provided. Most papers in Medicine, Biology, and the social sciences ¬†describe experimental correlations found between things such as eating substance A and having disease B. A good paper would not only describe the experimental methodology and the numerical strength of the correlation found, but will also describe what is known about A and B, and plausible mechanisms how A could cause B based on current medical knowledge. The first part consists of scientific facts, and the second part consists of reasonable assumptions. Demanding that only the facts and no possible interpretations should be provided will make it impossible to publish anything, except rigorous mathematical proofs.Our last point is about the value of big data analysis in general, and flow analysis in large social graphs in particular. If political leaders are found to have many common friends with Mafia dons, this is worth reporting even though it may have completely innocent interpretations. One should be careful not to present such connections as proofs of guilt, but this is often the only way to discover interesting things in large and complex data collections. In fact, even the bitcoin community itself uses such techniques all the time when they try to understand events such as the recent large transfer of 194,000 BTCs or the reasons for massive fluctuations in the bitcoin exchange rate. It is thus strange to read recommendations from the community that no one should look into the publicly available block change and try to draw any conclusions from it by using ¬†modern data mining techniques.
REUTERS/Bobby YipA stone bearing the Chinese name of Qianhai is displayed on top of a slope overlooking the Qianhai area in Shenzhen, May 28, 2012. Just about an hour‚Äôs drive northwest of Hong Kong, in a corner of the bustling Chinese city of Shenzen, there‚Äôs a roughly 6-square-mile piece of muddy reclaimed land known as Qianhai that has morphed over the last three years into a busy construction site. The thrum of activity comes as Chinese officials are working to turn the district into a laboratory for long-awaited currency and interest rate reforms. Qianhai is slated to be built-out and fully operational in 2020, with the hope that it then becomes a thriving financial services center. Such is the excitement about Qianhai that people are already calling it a ‚Äúmini-Hong Kong‚Äù or ‚ÄúManhattan of the Pearl River Delta.‚Äù But the rise of a Hong Kong 2.0 right next door to the original isn‚Äôt necessarily an existential threat, Credit Suisse says. In fact, if all goes according to plan, it‚Äôs probably good news for Hong Kong. Special economic zones like Qianhai are nothing new in China ‚Äì in fact, there are so many that they shouldn‚Äôt really be called special anymore. They began popping up in the early 1980s when China threw open its doors to the West, ending decades of economic and political isolation. Most zones offer companies preferential policies such as tax breaks and lower tariffs to boost exports and attract foreign investment. But this one will be different. After Chinese officials renewed their commitment to market-based reforms at the Communist Party gathering that ended Nov. 12, there is reason to believe Qianhai may actually prove very special indeed. Qianhai has a much larger purpose than previous economic zones: Credit Suisse says its success could be a major turning point in China‚Äôs increasingly urgent push to liberalize its economy and create a fully convertible currency. Under Beijing‚Äôs watchful eye, the existing channels for cross-border currency flows between Hong Kong and the mainland would widen. Banks based in Hong Kong would be allowed to set their own interest rates for renminbi-denominated loans to companies registered in Qianhai ‚Äì and vice-versa ‚Äì freeing financial institutions on both sides of the border from the interest rate restrictions on mainland lenders. In fact, 15 Hong Kong banks have already been authorized to lend to companies in the zone. Chinese companies in Qianhai will also be able to directly issue renminbi bonds in Hong Kong, known as dim sum bonds. Qianhai is set to welcome foreign-funded private equity firms, too. And yes, the typical goodies on offer in special economic zones will be available here, too ‚Äì businesses will receive corporate and income tax breaks as well as other incentives to open offices there. The end result, the authorities hope, will be greater ‚Äì though still tightly controlled ‚Äì flows of renminbi into and out of China. Of course, building Qianhai on Hong Kong‚Äôs doorstep has raised questions about the city‚Äôs future as an international financial center. Following the British handover to the Chinese authorities in 1997, Hong Kong kept a large degree of control over its economic, political, financial and legal systems, though Beijing is now responsible for the territory‚Äôs defense and foreign policy. That made it a very good setting for foreign companies that wanted to access Chinese markets while maintaining their regional head offices in a capitalist economy with a strong rule of law and a Westernized business culture. Hong Kong‚Äôs unique status as both a Chinese territory with special privileges and a modern city with plenty of clout in international markets has also helped Chinese companies expand offshore. For its part, Beijing has used the ‚Äúone-country, two-systems‚Äù arrangement to test major reforms in Hong Kong before rolling them out across the country. In one of the most significant experiments of the past decade, the city was designated an offshore renminbi trading center in 2003. The reform, seen as a significant step towards making the mainland‚Äôs currency fully convertible, confirmed Hong Kong‚Äôs importance in the eyes of China‚Äôs political leaders and international investors alike. But, if Qianhai offers companies seeking access to the Chinese market a base on the mainland with many of Hong Kong‚Äôs advantages, plus lower wages, cheaper rents and competitive tax rates, the thinking goes, could it be the first step in Hong Kong losing its own special status? In short: no. On the contrary, Credit Suisse analyst Christiaan Tuntono thinks the rise of Qianhai could actually benefit Hong Kong. First, having a direct channel for currency flows and cross-border investment options will create more opportunities to put to work the more than RMB700 billion ($115 billion) in deposits sitting in Hong Kong‚Äôs offshore market. Second, the size of Hong Kong‚Äôs renminbi bond market ‚Äì already the largest in the world, with RMB294 billion ($48 billion) issued since 2007 ‚Äì should grow as Qianhai-based companies are allowed to issue dim sum bonds directly, allowing them to take advantage of Hong Kong‚Äôs lower borrowing costs, while also offering new investment alternatives to city investors. Tuntono also believes an asset management industry catering to mainland corporations and individuals could develop in Qianhai, and Hong Kong‚Äôs sophisticated financial institutions and investors would likely play a lead role in its development. Finally, a robust Qianhai financial sector would create more jobs for portfolio managers, traders, brokers and analysts from both regions. ‚ÄúWe think Qianhai represents another opportunity for Hong Kong, as the process of renminbi internationalization requires its close cooperation,‚Äù Tuntono wrote in a note released earlier this year entitled ‚ÄúHong Kong: Is Qianhai a Threat or an Opportunity?‚Äù ‚ÄúInstead of fearing whether Qianhai shall replace Hong Kong in the future, we think investors should think how Hong Kong shall rise with Qianhai in forming an even greater financial and services hub in East Asia in the years to come.‚Äù Qianhai does have competition. The Shanghai Free Trade Zone, which will also experiment with currency-related reforms, opened in late September, and there are already reports that some companies that had planned to invest in Qianhai are reassessing their options. Still, by mid-September, about 1,700 firms with a combined registered capital of RMB200 billion ($33 billion) had signed up to open offices in the zone. Approximately 70 percent of them are involved in the financial services industry. Given Beijing‚Äôs penchant for gradualism and tight regulation, it remains to be seen just how fast China‚Äôs stated currency and interest rate reforms will occur. Given the experience of many emerging markets of late, there is a legitimate worry that loosening currency controls on the capital account will leave China more vulnerable to sudden, potentially destabilizing inflows and outflows of investment capital than it would like to be. Officials have promised that the renminbi will be fully convertible by 2015, but many observers still think that‚Äôs highly unlikely. Turning back to what it all means for Hong Kong, even if the renminbi were to become a fully convertible currency and Qianhai grew into a thriving financial services hub, most analysts believe that both foreign companies entering the Chinese market and Chinese companies expanding offshore will still want the reassurance of Hong Kong‚Äôs strong legal framework, transparent markets and financial know-how. ‚ÄúFinancial centers become international hubs only when investors perceive they provide a level playing field,‚Äù says Mark Williams of London-based research house Capital Economics. ‚ÄúThis requires transparency, an independent legal system, and a willingness to adopt international norms. None of this is in place today in China.‚Äù All that said, if China‚Äôs financial and legal systems do eventually mature enough to satisfy foreign businesses and investors ‚Äì and that‚Äôs still a very big if ‚Äí Hong Kong will certainly have to step up its game to stay competitive. ‚ÄúHong Kong should not be complacent‚Ä¶about its existing advantages over China,‚Äù Tuntono writes. ‚ÄúThe government, industries and general public in Hong Kong will all have to strive hard for greater advancement than they have achieved in the past so that the city can maintain a leading edge over the mainland.‚Äù But what other choice do they have?
The first book printed in what is today the United States of America sold for more than $14 million at auction in New York Tuesday, Sotheby's said, becoming the world's most expensive book. The translation of Biblical psalms "The Bay Psalm Book" was printed by Puritan settlers in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1640 and was sold at a one-lot auction by Sotheby's. Bidding opened at $6 million and closed just minutes later at a premium price of $14.165 million, a Sotheby's spokesman said. The auction house had valued the book at $15-30 million. The identity of the buyer was not immediately announced. The previous world auction record for a printed book was $11.5 million, reached when a copy of John James Audubonís "Birds of America" sold at Sotheby's in December 2010. The settlers, who came to America to seek religious freedom, set about making their own preferred translation from the Hebrew original of the Old Testament book. "'The Bay Psalm Book' is a mythical rarity. Unseen on the marketplace for more than two generations, it has become too rare to collect," said David Redden, head of Sotheby's books. Redden said the volume had even greater significance than being the first book printed or written in America. "This little book of 1640 was precursor to Lexington and Concord, and, ultimately, to American political independence. With it, New England declared its independence from the Church of England," he said. Selby Kiffer, from Sotheby's special projects department, called it "not simply one of the great icons of book history, it is one of the greatest artifacts of American history." There were 1,700 copies of the original 1640 edition. The eleven that have survived until today are in collections such as The Library of Congress in New York and Harvard College Library. No copy had appeared at auction since 1947, when a different copy fetched $151,000 -- a record at the time for any book, including the Gutenberg Bible or Shakespeare's First Folio. The book was sold by the Old South Church in Boston to benefit its work in the historic city. The same church possesses another copy of the "Bay Psalm Book." † Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Chart 1 is actual bitcoin and South Sea Stock values plotted with SS peak lined up with current BC data. Chart 2 takes the last 8 months and lines them up with similar starting points. Granted I‚Äôm violating my #1 rule of charting but these are more fun to look at on a non log basis‚Ä¶ Chart 3 is the most important, and it shows what happens after a bubble pops.¬† Namely, a 90% loss for those who bought at the top.¬† Now, I know many of you believe bitcoin will go to $1,000,000, but as a speculation (and to be clear this IS a speculation) you have to be at least be prepared for this to happen.¬† Do you have an exit plan?¬† Will you stick with it?¬† Or will you be like so many before you that ride a speculation all the way down? At least think about it.¬† (Last note ‚Äì one very common characteristic of bubbles is no talk of downside.¬† And that is all I am hearing with bitcoin today, rarely do you hear of anyone talking about the possibility of it going back to 100 or less.) I will will you with a little Kurt Vonnegut, from Galapagos, circa 1985: The thing was, though: When James Wait got there, a worldwide financial crisis, a sudden revision of human opinions as to the value of money and stocks and bonds and mortgages and so on, bits of paper, had ruined the tourist business not only in Ecuador, but practically everywhere‚Ä¶Ecuador, after all, like the Galapagos Islands, was mostly lava and ash, and so could not begin to feed its nine million people. It was bankrupt, and so could no longer buy food from countries with plenty of topsoil, so the seaport of Guayaquil was idle, and the people were beginning to starve to death‚Ä¶Neighboring Peru and Columbia were bankrupt, too‚Ä¶Mexico and Chile and Brazil and Argentina were likewise bankrupt ‚Äì and Indonesia and the Philippines and Pakistan and India and Thailand and and Italy and Ireland and Belgium and Turkey. Whole nations were suddenly in the same situation as the San Mateo, unable to buy with their paper money and coins, or their written promises to pay later, even the barest essentials. ..They were suddenly saying to people with nothing but paper representations of wealth, ‚ÄúWake up, you idiots! Whatever made you think paper was so valuable?‚Äù The financial crisis, was simply the latest in a series of murderous twentieth century catastrophes which had originated entirely in human brains. From the violence people were doing to themselves and each other, and to all other living things, for that matter, a visitor from another planet might have assumed that the environment had gone haywire, and that people were in such a frenzy because Nature was about to kill them all. But the planet a million years ago was as moist and nourishing as it is today ‚Äì and unique, in that respect, in the entire Milky Way. All that had changed was people‚Äôs opinion of the place.‚Äù Mebane Faber Mebane Faber Mebane Faber
Reuters/Desmond BoylanFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 5 Red Flags To Help Investors Spot A Bad Bond Fund (Morningstar) Eric Jacobson, a senior fund analyst at Morningstar points out five red flags that investors should watch for when it comes to bond funds. These can signal if the funds are taking on "more risk of a blowup than others."¬† 1. Big yields ‚Äî The bond funds with big yields have typically taken on bigger risks. "Funds that get into the biggest trouble are often those with the biggest yields." 2. Funds that are too concentrated in one issuer or sector or state ‚Äî¬† having too much of a good thing is no different than having all of your eggs in one proverbial basket." 3. Excessive leverage ‚Äî this can include leverage through derivatives, similar to margin borrowing. This adds volatility and risk to a portfolio. 4. Outlier funds ‚Äî "If a fund purports to be of a certain ilk but actually looks a lot different than its peers, that's a red flag." 5. High fees ‚Äî Investors often choose depending on what their returns could look like after factoring in fees. "Managers who have to cope with higher expense ratios have added pressure because they start the race behind everyone else. When you're already behind, it's extremely tempting to take on more risk in order to just keep up."  Low Returns Mean We Might Be In The Very Early Phase Of A Stock Market Upcycle (Charles Schwab)  Stocks have had a great run up this year, but many are expecting a melt-up. But Liz Ann Sonders at Charles Schwab thinks there is still room for stocks to go higher. "Deservedly, much attention was given to the "lost decade" that was evident at the lows in 2009. From that low looking back 10 years investors had lost money; a rare occurrence last seen coming out of the Great Depression in the 1930s. "But notice the long-term pattern of this chart. Investors don't spend a lot of time hanging around the mean line, but instead the market tends to trend in one direction for multi decades (well-overshooting the mean) before heading back down to well-undershoot the mean. Being less than five years into the upcycle, history suggests we have more room to run." Charles Schwab Two-Houston Based Firms Charged With Not Disclosing Transactions (SEC)  The SEC has announced charges against Houston-based Parallax Investments LLC and Tri-Star Advisors, and three executives for "engineering thousands of principal transactions through their affiliated brokerage firm without informing their clients." The SEC also charged Parallax and its chief compliance officer F. Robert Falkenberg "with violations of the ‚Äúcustody rule‚Äù that requires firms to meet certain standards when maintaining custody of client funds or securities." Men Are More Confident About Saving For Retirement Than Women (FA Mag)  Men are more confident about being prepared for retirement, than women, according to a survey by TIAA-CREF. 56% of women said they were confident about saving for retirement, compared with 65% of men. About 50% of the women surveyed said they wanted financial advice that was created by women.  Here's SocGen's Famous Chart With The Black Swans (Societe Generale)  Every quarter Societe Generale publishes its black swan chart, which highlights key risks, which though unlikely could be a huge blow to markets. For 2014, this key risk seems to be a replay of the 1994 bond market sell-off. SocGen
The net asset value of SecondMarket's Bitcoin Trust has surpassed $50 million. As of 4 pm, the fund's assets under management were worth $50.93 million. The price of Bitcoin on Mt. Gox is now more than $900, and earlier today hit a new all-time high of $950.  This suggests SecondMarket holds more than 55,000 Bitcoins. Founded in 2004, SecondMarket is an online security brokerage specializing in illiquid assets. † Here's the chart showing net asset value (NAV) and NAV/share. Second Market
Alex Davies / Business InsiderA year ago at the Los Angeles Auto Show, Jaguar introduced a car that was unlike anything we were expecting. We know and love Jaguar for sleek, low cars that exude sex appeal. Then we saw the XFR-S. Compared to its siblings, it's rather stubby, and it's got a big wing stuck on the back of it. But a peek under the hood reveals that the XFR-S isn't an abomination, it's just something new. Something very powerful, and very fast. Over the weekend, we had the chance to spend a few days with the 550-horsepower, four-door, five-seat sedan. We took it out of Manhattan, up to Bear Mountain, where the roads all curve and the engine can do its thing. That's where it all clicked. The XFR-S is no joy to look at. But it's a terrific performance car. The XFR-S starts for $99,000. The version we tested cost $105,770.
Twitter.com/GoldmanSachsA stockbroker who worked at Goldman Sachs for 80 years passed away yesterday afternoon.¬† Alfred Feld was 98 years old. "Al was a participant in over half of our firm‚Äôs 144-year history and witnessed some of our most important developments,"¬†CEO Lloyd Blankfein and COO Gary Cohn wrote in a memo shared with Business Insider. "His reputation for sound and conservative client coverage was widely known, and he advised some of the firm‚Äôs most significant relationships, many of whom have transitioned through multiple generations." In 2003, the Wall Street Journal's Susanne Craig profiled Feld, who at the time worked four days a week, always eating lunch in the same seat in the Goldman cafeteria. "He gets up at 6:30 a.m. ‚Äî a half-hour later than he used to, but with just enough margin to make the hour-and-a-half train commute from his home in New Jersey and arrive at work before the stock market opens," according to the story. But Feld, who told the Journal he received multiple job offers a year, was a company man. He started at Goldman on July 10, 1933 at the age of 18, working his way up from a clerk's job. After serving in World War II, Feld returned to the firm in 1948 to join its first retail securities group. In the mid-50s he became part of what is now private wealth management. By the time the Journal interviewed him in 2003,¬†Feld said he had close to $200 million in assets under management. He would eventually move to Palm Beach, Florida to take up an advising role as an "ambassador for the wealth-management arm," according to a July interview with the Journal. Feld, whose wife Mildred passed way in 1983, is survived by his¬†daughter Marjorie and son Arthur.
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Martha Sellers hasn't been able to pay her rent on time since her husband died three years ago. She works as a cashier at Wal-Mart making $13.40 an hour. Even after 10 years with the company, the 55-year-old says she has to borrow money every month from co-workers just to cover her utilities. "Every month, it's deciding on whether to pay the bills, or eat," Sellers told Business Insider, speaking from outside the Wal-Mart where she works in Paramount, Calif., just south of Los Angeles. "There's never enough to go all the way around." Sellers would love to work 40 hours a week, but she claims the company limits her hours to 35. A few months ago, a positive annual review got her a 40-cent raise, but then Wal-Mart cut her hours, she said, leaving her with less money than she had before. "I'm one paycheck away from sleeping in my car," Sellers continued. While Sellers struggles to make ends meet, she hasnít had much trouble getting attention from the press. She has described her plight to at least a dozen news organizations in the last year ó including Bloomberg, the Huffington Post, the Los Angeles Times, the PBS Newshour and Al Jazeera America ó emerging as something of a recurring character in what has recently become a regular Thanksgiving tradition for media outlets as predictable as the folksy chat with a Butterball tip-line operator: The eager spasm of Wal-Mart bashing that accompanies the annual build-up to Black Friday. Often derided as the Beast of Bentonville, the mega-retailer, which did about $466 billion in sales in the last fiscal year, has long suffered from a poor public relations profile. For decades, the company has been battered for its wages and for displacing mom-and-pop shops from local communities. As a result, even small incidents, such as the recent employee food drive at a Canton, Ohio, store for Wal-Mart ìassociates in need,î get national play. APSellers owes her popularity with reporters to her association with the Organization United for Respect at Walmart, a labor group dedicated to persuading Wal-Mart to pay its employees at least $25,000 annually, or $13 an hour, and to make full-time jobs available to associates who want them. Better known by the nickname OUR Walmart, the organization is partly funded by ó and shares a mailing address with ó the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union. It was launched more than two years ago following a series of unsuccessful attempts to unionize Wal-Martís employees. (The groupís media outreach is managed by the firm Berlin Rosen, which received nearly $400,000 in consulting fees from the UFCW in fiscal 2012, according to documents filed with the U.S. Department of Labor.) Although the union downplays its involvement in OUR Walmart, claiming the group is run by Wal-Mart workers, it was a UFCW employee who put Business Insider in touch with Sellers. The director of the UFCWís Making Change at Walmart Campaign, Daniel Schlademan, serves on the executive board of Our Walmart along with another UFCW employee, according to a deposition Schlademan gave in August for a lawsuit Wal-Mart filed against the UFCW. Schlademan also said in the deposition that the UFCW provides strategy and planning advice to the group, as well as legal counsel, and manages content on the groupís website. OUR Walmart is listed as a subsidiary of the UFCW in papers filed with the U.S. Department of Labor. Many of the features on OUR Walmartís website were built by the Corporate Action Network, an online platform designed to help users plan protests and share strategies and documents. The brainchild of former union organizer Mark Fleischman and Brian Young, who ran Secretary of State John Kerryís digital operations from 2007 to 2011, CAN has helped OUR Walmart plan what the group expects to be some 1,500 Black Friday actions. That said, anyone with an Internet connection can sign up to ìhostî a protest, regardless of his or her affiliation to Wal-Mart. Among the materials provided to Wal-Mart protesters are tips for organizing a street action, suggested chants and carols (ìI Saw Walmart Kicking Santa Clausî) and a Thanksgiving Prayer that reads in part, ìWe ask You, oh God, to give the associates who work at this store patience and good humor as they face the busiest shopping day of the year.î Wal-Mart downplays OUR Walmartís influence, saying its members ó who pay $5 monthly ó represent a tiny percentage of its 2.2 million associates worldwide and that the group doesnít reflect the overall sentiment of its workers. Nonetheless, OUR Walmart has been a consistent thorn in Wal-Martís side, prompting the retail giant to launch a website devoted to refuting its claims. REUTERS/Jonathan AlcornDiana Huffman holds a sign in support of striking Walmart workers protesting unsafe working conditions and poor wages outside a Walmart store in Pico Rivera, California, October 4, 2012. Like a union, the group organizes workers and stages demonstrations, but it doesnít engage in collective bargaining. Therefore, it is not bound by the National Labor Relations Actís rules for how and when unions can picket. Members of OUR Walmart also benefit from federal labor laws that protect workers from retaliation for engaging in collective discussion and action. Nonetheless, Wal-Mart is eager to point out the groupís association with the UFCW. ìOUR Walmart is a wholly owned subsidiary of the UFCW,î Wal-Mart spokesman Kory Lundberg told Business Insider. ìThey own it, they control it, they dictate what it does. There are so few current associates participating because they understand the opportunities that Wal-Mart provides.î Business Insider reached out to the UFCW for response to Lundbergís remarks and will update when we hear back. In a major boost for OUR Walmart, the National Labor Relations Board recently ruled that Wal-Mart broke the law by disciplining workers (117 of them, according to OUR Walmart) who engaged in strikes on Black Friday last year. The NLRB also said that during two appearances on national television, Wal-Mart officials "unlawfully threatened employees with reprisal if they engaged in strikes or protests" on Black Friday. OUR Walmart has used the boardís decision as proof that the movement for higher wages at Wal-Mart is gaining momentum. But persuading workers to strike has been challenging. And no wonder: Wal-Mart has relentlessly fought back against organizing drives, even going so far as to shutter a store in Canada after employees voted to unionize. OUR Walmart says roughly 400 workers went on strike on Black Friday last year. Wal-Mart disputes that figure. ìWhat we saw was a little more than 100 associates out the 1.3 million in the U.S. participating in the protests,î Lundberg said, referring to last yearís Black Friday actions. ìSome called out of work and some worked their shift. Others werenít even scheduled to work that day.î Even the higher figure represents less than .05% of Wal-Martís U.S. workforce, which is not likely to disrupt the chainís operations. ìIf history is any indication as to what this group says it is going to do, and what they pull off, then weíre expecting to have another great Black Friday,î Lundberg said. "Great" might be an overstatement, although the major challenge to the retailer will likely be the sluggish economy. Wal-Mart is expecting flat sales as retailers brace for the weakest holiday shopping quarter since 2009, which is one reason why the company decided to start its Black Friday sales online a week early and open stores at 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving. Worker actions began early this year as well. Rafael Martinez, who is supporting a family of four on a wage of $9.50 per hour, walked off the job at his Miami Wal-Mart on Monday and participated in a protest outside the store with about 20 other workers. He said heís planning to strike again on Black Friday. ìIím afraid of losing my job,î Martinez told Business Insider by phone from from the picket line outside the store. ìBut we have the right to express our opinion.î Katie Cunningham, 63, was also striking in Miami on Monday. She said she supplements her $8.75-per-hour salary with help from her three grown daughters. ìI am just hoping [Wal-Mart doesnít] fire me,î she said. ìI need the money.î Asked whether she plans to participate in the Black Friday protests ó when she is on the schedule to work ó†Cunningham said it would depend on the protest organizers at OUR Walmart. ìIf they tell me to, I will,î she vowed. Cunningham said she joined OUR Walmart about 18 months ago, more than a year after she started working at Wal-Mart. She heard about the group from a co-worker and began attending meetings, which are held on the third Wednesday of every month, often in a meeting room at a local motel, and include presentations by labor organizers. ìThey are teaching me a lot,î Cunningham said. ìThereís a lot that I didnít know about Wal-Mart. There is so much that they are not telling us.î†† If any company can afford to give its employees a raise, Wal-Mart can. While the average wage of Wal-Mart associates is the subject of some dispute (OUR Walmart claims that most make less than $9 per hour, an estimate based on data from IBISWorld and Glassdoor.com, while Wal-Mart pegs the figure at $11.83), thereís little doubt that many of the storeís workers are stuck below the poverty line, currently $23,550 for a family of four. REUTERS/Rick WilkingJim Walton, Alice Walton, and Rob Walton cheer at the annual shareholders meeting for Walmart in Fayetteville, Arkansas. By contrast, the Waltons are doing quite well. Forbes estimates that the net worth of just six of their family members tops $144 billion, a figure greater than New Zealandís entire economy. The familyís 50.9% stake in the company, valued at $131 billion, paid out a hefty $2.5 billion in dividends last year (enough, as OUR Walmart points out, to give every one of the retailerís 1.3 million U.S. employees nearly $2,000 in cash). The Waltons have mostly kept their multi-billion-dollar lifestyles out of the public view, and for good reason. Images of private jets, vintage racing cars and sprawling properties donít mesh well with those stories about Wal-Mart workers being unable to afford Thanksgiving dinner. They are "modern day Pharaohs right out of the book of Exodus," Rev. Holly Beaumont, who is helping to organize Wal-Mart protests in New Mexico, said of the Waltons. "They are accumulating wealth at obscene proportions without [any concern for] their workers, forcing them to depend on the charity of their community." A study by congressional Democrats suggested that low wages at a single Wal-Mart could be costing taxpayers as much as $900,000 per year, due to employees using programs like food stamps and Medicaid. "When low wages leave Walmart workers unable to afford the necessities of life, taxpayers pick up the tab," the report said. Even those government payments wind up boosting Wal-Martís bottom line. The company itself estimates that about 18% of the nationís food stamps are spent in its stores.  ìThe Walton family promotes the overall quality of life and financial independence of future generations,î notes a a promotional video touting the familyís philanthropic endeavors through the Walton Family Foundation. The question some are asking is: ëWhose quality of life?í The familyís main charitable arm gave out $432 million in 2012, according to the foundationís website, much of it dedicated to education reform (a movement that is also anathema to many labor unions) and freshwater and marine conservation, or as the Foundation calls it ìconservationomicsî ó environmental protection geared toward boosting local economies. Crystal Bridges MuseumCrystal Bridges Museum in Bentonville, Ak. One of the Waltons' newest charitable projects is directed by Alice Walton, the daughter of Wal-Mart founder Sam Walton. Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art in Bentonville, Ark., is backed by a dizzying $1 billion in donations from the Walton family. The museumís collection includes paintings by Jackson Pollock, Winslow Homer, Robert Rauschenberg and Georgia OíKeeffe. Designed by Israeli-born Boston architect Moshe Safdie, the museum is set on 120 acres in a wooded area next to the home where the Walton children grew up and a couple miles from the Wal-Mart headquarters. Itís a two-hour drive from the nearest major airport in a town with a population of less than 40,000. While visitor reviews of the museum, which offers free admission to the main collection, are overwhelmingly positive, a Bloomberg report in September suggested that the institution yields dividends to the Waltons that go beyond simple altruism. As it turns out, the Walton Family Foundation, which pays for the museum, is funded by a collection of 21 trusts that help the Waltons to avoid estate and gift taxes. Tax attorney and former law professor Jerome Hesch told Business Insider that the Waltons "manipulate the trusts considerably," using them as vehicles to pass money onto their heirs tax-free. Hereís how it works: The trusts are set up to give a set amount to charity annually over the course of 20 to 30 years. If the trusts outperform a benchmark rate of return tied to U.S. Treasury bond yields ó a number that was determined at the time the trust was set up ó then the extra earnings go to designated heirs. Sam Waltonís wife, Helen Walton, picked an opportune moment to set up four of the trusts, when the benchmark rate was 3.6%. According to Bloomberg's analysis of IRS filings, the trusts returned a 14% rate of return between 2007 and 2011. "That growth means the four Helen Walton trusts have been accumulating assets faster than they give them away," Bloomberg's Zachary R. Mider reported. "As of 2011, they held a combined $2 billion, up from $1.4 billion in 2007. Barring a stark reversal of fortune, at least that much money will probably pass to Helen Walton's heirs."  While Wal-Mart says the effect of the Black Friday strikes will be insignificant, OUR Walmart claims momentum is building in the fight for higher wages and that regardless of how many workers strike, there will be hundreds of community supporters attending protests Friday at store locations across the U.S. At the very least, it will keep the retailerís communications team working overtime playing defense throughout the holiday season. Reuters Dozens of labor groups, as well as groups like Occupy Wall Street and its affiliates, are rallying behind the cause. Richard Trumka, president of the AFL-CIO, has said that 13 million members of the AFL-CIO will "stand in lockstep with the Walmart workers along their path to justice." Rev. Walter P. Turner III, Pastor of New Spiritual Light Church in Chicago, said the local religious community is also backing the protests. Chicago clergy originally welcomed the arrival of Wal-Mart stores into their communities because they believed the retailer would provide much-needed jobs, Turner acknowledged. "But when we began to hear about the level of disrespect, by the way of wages that are totally below poverty level, we began to feel that this was a moral issue that we needed to take a stand on," he said. "It is not right for someone to work this many hours and still make $15,000 [a year]," he added. Most protests will start around noon in Wal-Mart parking lots on Black Friday. The protest instructions provided by the Corporate Action Network direct a delegation of people to enter the store at some point to ask to speak to the manager. They will tell the manager that they are protesting for higher wages and hand them a letter stating their goals, after which they are supposed to exit the stores to resume demonstrating outside. The weather is expected to be between 20 degrees and 30 degrees Fahrenheit in the Northeast and Midwest, not unpleasant enough to deter protesters, or shoppers. The protest at Martha Sellers' store in Paramount, Calif., is set to get underway at 11:30 a.m. Sheíll be there, she said, but only until her shift begins later that day. She claims sheís getting involved in protests not just for fellow associates, but also for the legacy of Wal-Martís founder. "Sam has a quote where he says, 'I hope my descendants never become part of the idle rich,'" Sellers said. "Well that's exactly what theyíve done. This is his legacy that they are destroying and they just continue to ignore us. They would rather race their cars and build their art galleries than take care of their associates." Meanwhile, this shopping season will be the swansong for Wal-Mart President and CEO Mike Duke, who announced on Monday he is stepping down at the end of the year to be replaced by Doug McMillon, the chief executive of Wal-Mart International. The companyís new leader is just 47, but heís got plenty of experience: He started at Wal-Mart in 1984, as a lowly associate. Edited by Aaron Gell.
REUTERS/Rebecca Cook Warren Buffett, co-chair of the 10,000 Small Businesses Advisory Council, takes part in a panel discussion following a news conference announcing a $20 million partnership to bring Goldman Sachs' 10,000 Small Businesses initiative to the city of Detroit, Michigan, November 26, 2013. DETROIT (Reuters) - Investor Warren Buffett said Tuesday he expects the market for Detroit's debt to pick up again and bond insurers to begin backing the debt once the city submits an appropriate recovery plan to bankruptcy court. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corp. re-insures more than $380 million of Detroit's secured sewer debt that was originally insured by Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. The city, which is awaiting a decision from a federal judge on whether it is eligible for bankruptcy, has $18.5 billion in debt and liabilities. Speaking at a Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt; event to promote entrepreneurship in Detroit, the Berkshire Hathaway &lt;BRKa.N&gt; chairman and chief executive said the market for Detroit's debt would pick up "as soon as a plan comes through that makes sense." Detroit still has assets that appeal to investors, Buffett said. "The resources in terms of the people, the businesses, the history and the culture are all here to have a great city in the future," he said. "And it will require probably some sort of plan to readjust the debt of the past and ongoing expenses." Defaults by Detroit since June on its pension debt and some of its general obligation bonds have worried the municipal bond market, where states, cities, schools and other borrow money. Meanwhile, Detroit's state-appointed emergency manager Kevyn Orr has proposed a $350 million debtor-in-possession financing that would be the first in a municipal bankruptcy if the plan wins court approval. Orr has also floated the idea of a new regional authority for the city's water and sewer operations that could impair the value of outstanding Detroit water and sewer bonds, according to credit rating agencies. Buffett pointed to bankrupt Jefferson County, Alabama, which successfully sold $1.78 billion of sewer-system debt earlier this month to pay off $3.1 billion of defaulted sewer debt at about 54 cents on the dollar. A portion of the debt carried insurance from Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes will announce on December 3 if Detroit meets the bankruptcy eligibility requirements under federal law. In a nine-day trial that wrapped up earlier this month, the city argued that it is insolvent and that it acted in good faith when it said negotiations with its creditors were impractical. Detroit will be able to submit a plan of adjustment if it is found eligible by Judge Rhodes. Buffett and Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein said Tuesday that they were optimistic about Detroit's revitalization efforts, comparing the beleaguered city to 1970s New York, which also faced staggering financial difficulties. Blankfein said New York was able to recover and thrive after its financial crisis. They spoke at a news conference as Goldman announced it would expand its 10,000 Small Businesses program to Detroit with a $20 million donation to local colleges and non-profits to boost entrepreneurship. (Reporting by Joseph Lichterman; Editing by Kenneth Barry)
Earnings per share came in at $1.01 and net revenue was $29.1 billion. That's a nice beat! Expectations were modest to say the least. The Street wanted earnings of $1 per share, down almost 14% from the same quarter last year. They wanted revenue of $27.91 billion, down 7%. The guidance on the next quarter, Q1 2014, is EPS of $0.82 - $0.86. Analysts had estimated it at $0.85. For the full year, HP reported $3.56 EPS, in line with guidance. HP had net revenue of $112.3 billion. Whitman is two years into what she says is a five-year plan to turn the company around. She says HP won't start growing revenues again until 2014. Last month told analysts she expects HP to earn between $3.55 and $3.75 a share in 2014. Here are the highlights from the earnings press release. Fourth quarter fiscal 2013 segment results
REUTERS/BeawihartaFlowers are seen with Mount Sinabung spewing ash into the air in the background at Simpang Empat village in Karo district, Indonesia's North Sumatra province, November 25, 2013.Stocks moved a hair higher today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Every three months, SocGen puts out its famous "black swan" chart, showing the firm's risk outlook going forward. These are the events that, while unlikely, would absolutely rock markets and ripple through the economy. †"Risks to our central scenario remain tilted to the downside. Turning points in US monetary policy are delicate operations to manage and the fear is set to be a replay of 1994," they said.† 1994 was when the Federal Reserve arguably tightened monetary policy too soon, triggering a violent treasury market sell-off.† "The aim of†forward guidance is clearly to manage such risks. A disorderly market move holds the greatest risk for the most vulnerable emerging economies. Further risks in the US centre on the fiscal decisions to be taken in Washington in early 2014. In the euro area, risks appear more balanced relative to our below-consensus central scenario," SocGen writes. "Fast-track political solutions ñ including full delivery of banking union ñ hold the greatest upside potential. Chinaís reform transformation will create short-term uncertainty; the danger is a hard-landing ñ the temptation the being to adopt further credit stimulus." Check it out. SocGen
Bloomberg TVSusan LiAnyone in the U.S. who's trying to get the jump on tomorrow's headlines is watching the Asian market action.¬† And if your TV is on, you're either watching "Asia Squawk Box" on CNBC or "First Up with Susan Li" on Bloomberg. Now, if you're a Susan Li fan, you're going to have to change that channel to CNBC. CNBC just announced that Li has joined the business network's on-air Asia-Pacific team. "I have long admired CNBC's dedication to excellence," said Li. "I am excited to be joining its team of talented and knowledgeable journalists, and look forward to working with them to deliver the kind of business news coverage that can only be found on CNBC." In recent months, we've learned that star reporters Dom Chu and Sara Eisen have moved to CNBC from Bloomberg. But the moves aren't going in just one direction. Last week, we learned veteran reporter Maria Bartiromo was leaving CNBC to join the Fox Business Network.
Jeff J. Mitchell/Getty ImagesIt seems our friends across the pond are embroiled in their own naughty bank¬†brouhaha. RBS has asked a law firm to "investigate claims it forced firms to close so it could make a profit." The key thing to remember here, as Felix Salmon at Reuters notes, is that RBS was effectively nationalized by the U.K. government during the financial crisis. The rough allegation is that RBS, in an effort to deleverage after the crisis, royally screwed over its borrowers with particular delight and fanfare. Here's an example¬†from Salmon: Eddie and Cheryl Warren bought the Bold hotel in Southport for ¬£3.7 million, with a loan from RBS. In the UK, mortgages are floating-rate, and the bank forced them to take out an interest-rate swap to protect them against rising rates. When rates fell, they had to pay penalties on the swap of ¬£120,000 per year ‚Äî but even so, they always remained current on all their payments. That notwithstanding, RBS declared that thanks to the rate swap, the Warrens were deeply underwater. The bank declared the hotel to be worth just ¬£1.8 million, forced the Warrens into insolvency, and then ended up selling the hotel to ‚Äî yes ‚Äî West Register, for the bargain-basement price of ¬£1.4 million. The Warrens lost everything, including their home; they are now divorcing. As it happens, West Register is RBS's own property division. There are a lot more stories like the Warrens',¬†and government advisor Lawrence Tomlinson¬†wrote a report¬†to find them. What was going on, according to Tomlinson, was "systematic and institutional" malfeasance at RBS. To make matters worse, Salmon writes that borrowers in the U.K. have been doubly hosed because they can't sue the banks. "Any law firm which does business with banks will refuse to take their case," he writes. Read the full report at the BBC¬ª And read Felix Salmon's take ¬ª¬†
Anyone can gawk at a chart of the S&amp;P 500 and wonder oafishly if stocks have run up too sharply. However, there's more than one way to look at the S&amp;P 500. Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders (via Josh Brown) recently posted this chart, which considers the state of the stock market in terms of long-term returns. After all, returns are something investors can actually relate too. Here's Sonders' commentary: Shifting gears, let's look at another sign that there could be a lot more room to run for the market. Deservedly, much attention was given to the "lost decade" that was evident at the lows in 2009. From that low looking back 10 years investors had lost money; a rare occurrence last seen coming out of the Great Depression in the 1930s. But notice the long-term pattern of this chart. Investors don't spend a lot of time hanging around the mean line, but instead the market tends to trend in one direction for multi decades (well-overshooting the mean) before heading back down to well-undershoot the mean. Being less than five years into the upcycle, history suggests we have more room to run. Fascinating. Maybe we aren't in a bubble. Charles Schwab
Bitcoin prices just notched another record, as prices hit $950 on the Mt. Gox exchange.  Demand may be getting a bump from Bitcoin sites like Coinbase participate in Black Friday holiday shopping discounts.¬† Chart: Bitcoin Charts
REUTERS/Jason Lee The Chinese have taken control of Ecuador's oil sector, Reuters' Joshua Schneyer and Nichoals Medina Mora Perez report. Finding themselves largely shut out of credit markets since defaulting on $3.2 billion in debt in 2008, Ecuador turned to China. In exchange for covering†61% of the country's $6.2 billion financing needs in 2013, China last November secured†the rights to up to 90% of Ecuador's oil shipments in coming years (for comparison,†China holds 23% of U.S. debt just held by foreigners).† What's more, little of the oil actually gets shipped to China. Instead, Chinese oil firms are able to sell the oil to would-be Ecuadorean trading partners and capture an enormous discount. Reuters says Ecuador's annual oil sales are valued at $13 billion, and China's cash advances cover only a "slice" of†that near $13 billion Ecuador could earn from oil sales. The U.S. is the largest recipient of Ecuadorean oil. "This is a huge and dramatic shift," Rene Ortiz, the secretary general of OPEC and a former Ecuadorean energy minister, told Reuters. "Never before has Ecuador committed its oil to a lender." If this arrangement appears paradoxical for a region constantly complaining about Western meddling, you're right.† "President Rafael Correa, a socialist who is critical of the power that Western oil majors and private energy trading firms once held in Ecuador, has touted the Chinese deals as a triumph of trade between close allies," Schneyer and Medina Mora Perez write. "Ortiz and other critics say the cash-strapped government's dependence on loans with increasingly onerous terms could hurt PetroEcuador's competitiveness, damage transparency in an oil industry that accounts for half of Ecuador's exports, and distance the country from other creditors." We've heard of South American countries nationalizing their oil sectors, but never internationalizing them. Click here to read the full story ª
"These misguided rules could cost jobs,î thundered Sen. Charles Grassley, Republican of Iowa,†last Saturday, in response to a new Environmental Protection Agency proposal.† Another case of conservatives fighting against environmental standards? No: Grassley continued that the rules would ìcreate dirtier air, while protecting the stranglehold Big Oil has on the countryís fuel supply.î So was this a case of all-too-rare bipartisanship in todayís polarized D.C? A Republican finally standing up for science and environmental protection? Well, no, itís not that either. The politics are bipartisan, but Grassleyís stand was neither for free markets nor clean air. Itís just the latest twist in the ongoing saga of corn politics. The EPA, you see, issued a†proposal†last Friday to reduce the amount of ethanol that regulations require to be put into Americaís gasoline. Ethanol can, in principle, be made from many things. But in practice in the U.S., itís made from corn. And if thereís one form of big government that Americaís farm-state Republicans love, itís the kind of big government that subsidizes corn production and the owners of corn farms. Not that Grassley stands alone by any means. ìThe administration should be working every day to create jobs and strengthen the economy,î observed Bruce Braley, a House Democrat from Iowa, ìyet the EPAís proposed rule does just the opposite.î In fact, no. The EPAís proposed rule will be good for the American economy, good for the global economy, and a win for the government all at once. Bad as it is for the environment to burn oil to fuel vehicles, growing corn (which requires fertilizer, tractors, etc.) to turn into ethanol and then burning the ethanol is even worse. EPA analysis has shown that the life-cycle CO2 emissions associated with corn ethanol are†higher than those from gasoline, and you get bonus environmental destruction in the form of open land being converted to agricultural use. Not that environmental concerns are exactly what drove the EPA to act. Itís a small irony that Big Oil and the automobile industry are the ones whose lobbying clout is driving a piece of sound environmental policy. In effect, everyone who eats food is being taxed to subsidize a small number of richer-than-average farmers. The way the†2007 Renewable Fuel Standard program†works is that the nationís oil refineries are supposed to steadily ramp up the amount of ethanol they blend into the nationís gasoline supply. What the lawís authors didnít anticipate is that 2007 would also prove to be the start of a†secular decline in driving. At the same time that Americans started driving fewer miles, our cars were becoming more fuel-efficient. That means the amount of ethanol per gallon of actual fuel has had to increase much more rapidly than anticipated, bumping up against the ìblend wallî of 10 percent ethanol. The oil and corn industries have a long-running dispute as to whether itís actually true that adding more ethanol than this is unsafe, but†as Ben Adler explains, ìcar companies say their warranties wonít cover cars that use gasoline with 15 percent ethanolîóso as a practical matter, the wall is real enough. The EPAís idea is to put 15.2 billion gallons of ethanol in gasoline in 2014 rather than the 16.55 billion used this year. Using less ethanol would be a small win for the environment and a huge win for the economy. Even as mainstream America has wrestled with high unemployment and massive excess capacity,†the farm economy has been booming. Rising prosperity in Asia has increased demand for meat, and each extra pound of meat eaten requires several pounds of grain as feed. Thatís left slower-growing parts of the worldófrom North Africa to North Americaófacing higher food prices, stifling demand for other goods and services. Addressing this problem by hoping China stays poor would be perverse. But exacerbating the problem by pouring huge quantities of corn into our gas tanks is insane. In effect, everyone on the planet who eats food is being taxed to subsidize a relatively small number of†richer-than-average farmers. Reduced ethanol use will reduce farm incomes (hence the squeals from the Iowa congressional delegation), but the money will flow straight into the pockets of food consumers. That will leave households with more money to spend on job-creating purchases of other things, creating large net economic benefits. Meanwhile, the circumstances of the ethanol crisis are a powerful reminder that the problem of oil dependence has an obvious solution: burn less gasoline. That doesnít play as well in the Iowa caucuses as schemes to power cars with corn, but it makes a lot more sense. With higher gasoline taxes and fuel economy standards, somewhat fewer people will drive, and those who do will drive somewhat fewer miles in somewhat lighter cars with somewhat more advanced engines. Trends are already in that direction without much in the way of supportive federal policy, and anyone genuinely interested in cleaner air can push to go further down that road. In the absence of anything that sensible, getting the corn out of our gas tanks will have to suffice.
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesThe Container Store is poised for incredible growth.¬† According to a recent report by Credit Suisse, the retailer, which went public earlier this year, could more than double in worth to $4 billion.¬† The specialty home organization store currently has 63 locations, but will soon expand to 300.¬† Credit Suisse analysts Gary Balter, Simeon Gutman, and Andrew Kinder cite a few reasons why The Container Store is killing it.¬† 1. Awesome customer service. "Over our close to 30 years covering retailers, there have been a small group¬†that emerged above the fray, companies that put the customer on¬†a pedestal and appreciated that they exist because of the customer and not¬†vice versa," the analysts write. "We place The Container Store in that group." 2. Experience can't be replicated online. "Only (in stores) can¬†one appreciate the level of knowledge that each associate has, the distinct treasure hunt¬†presentation in the stores, the uniqueness of the product offering, and most important, the¬†excitement one feels when shopping in the stores," according to Credit Suisse. This makes The Container Store nearly immune to online competition.¬† 3. No direct competitors.¬†The company is a unique concept that shoppers can't find anywhere else, the analysts write. More than 50% of its merchandise is exclusive, "making it a unique retailer in the space."¬† 4. Associates are valued‚Äîand the impact on stores is obvious. Workers receive better pay and benefits than the retail average. "The company is proud of the longevity of its associates, the very low¬†turnover rates compared with other retailers, and the very few employees above store¬†manager ever lost to competitors," the analysts write.¬† 5. Celebrities love it. "It receives lots of free publicity from Oprah and others, including President¬†Obama, for the uniqueness of its store and more importantly, the way it treats its¬†associates," Balter, Gutman, and Kinder write.¬†
Good news! The cost of the classic Thanksgiving Day dinner for 10 people has fallen to $49.04 this year, down from $49.48 in 2012. This is according to an informal survey conducted by the American Farm Bureau Federation. LPL Financial's Jeffrey Kleintop pointed us this. From the AFBF's release: The AFBF survey shopping list includes turkey, bread stuffing, sweet potatoes, rolls with butter, peas, cranberries, a relish tray of carrots and celery, pumpkin pie with whipped cream, and beverages of coffee and milk, all in quantities sufficient to serve a family of 10. There is also plenty for leftovers. The big ticket item ñ a 16-pound turkey ñ came in at $21.76 this year. That was roughly $1.36 per pound, a decrease of about 3 cents per pound, or a total of 47 cents per whole turkey, compared to 2012. The whole bird was the biggest contributor to the final total, showing the largest price decrease compared to last year. The 2013 Thanksgiving dinner cost is lower than the 2011 cost of $49.20. "There's no inflation on the table," joked Kleintop. American Farm Bureau Federation
Deutsche Asset &amp; Wealth Management put together this map that pretty much sums up everything going on in every major region of the U.S. economy. Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management
After Thanksgiving tons of hopefully financial professional will do the Wall Street equivalent of walking the plank ‚Äî they will take the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam. The exam isn't just an exam, it's an endurance test full of challenging material ‚Äî you're supposed to study for 300 hours for each of the three levels of the exam. That's why CFA charterholder and Lehman Brothers vet Greg Campion wrote a book on how to survive. It's called CFA Confidential: What It Really Takes to Become a Chartered Financial Analyst. The book has a bunch of tips about how to study for all three exam levels, how to deal with stress etc. However, if you're reading this and you're taking the CFA soon, you're likely too busy studying to read a book about anything but the material on the test. (Sorry dudes, pick up the book for the next level.) For people like you, Business Insider asked Campion to distill his wisdom into ten vital points you absolutely have to understand before, as, and after you take the CFA. Who loves you? Here are Campion's tips are:
A study recently conducted by the Evolution &amp; Ecology Research Centre has taken the guessing game out of what beard style women prefer. We visited Astor Place Hairstylists†to get some tips on how to keep up the popular yet subtly maintained 10-day beard. To learn more about the story behind this popular downtown Manhattan barber where celebrities like Alec Baldwin, Stephen Colbert, and Channing Tatum are regulars, check out the feature length documentary by Karen Gehres, "Astor Barber All Stars." Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis Keep up with Business Insider Video on Facebook and Twitter.
A winter storm that has already hit Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Texas is now closing in on the Southeast, and that's bad news for Thanksgiving travelers. According to FlightAware.com, more than 60 flights have already been delayed at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, the busiest in the world.  As FlightAware's Misery Map shows, delays at Hartsfield won't take long to ripple across the country. Here's how the map looked just after 3 p.m., click for a larger image: FlightAware.com
Men's Wearhouse, under pressure from activist shareholders to merge, offered $55 per share in cash for Jos. A. Bank, an unusual counter-offer that values the smaller retailer's stock at a 9 percent premium to its close on Monday. Jos. A. Bank's shares rose as much as 12 percent on Tuesday to a two-and-a-half year high of $56.91, topping the offer in a sign investors might be expecting a higher bid. Men's Wearhouse shares rose as much as 7 percent to a year-high. "For the shareholders of Men's Warehouse and for Joseph A. Bank, Christmas has come early. They will see huge benefits to the merging of these two companies," said Jerry Reisman, an M&amp;A expert at law firm Reisman Peirez Reisman and Capobianco LLP. The combined company would have 1,700 stores that hire tuxedos and sell suits, a scale that has in the past raised antitrust questions about a merger. The retaliatory offer from Men's Wearhouse, which the company says implies an enterprise value of about $1.2 billion for Jos. A. Bank, follows pressure from its largest shareholder, New York-based hedge fund Eminence Capital LLC. Eminence, along with other hedge funds that hold about 30 percent of Men's Wearhouse shares, had tried to persuade other investors to pressure the company into accepting the takeover offer from Jos. A. Bank. "We are pleased to see that the board of Men's Wearhouse agrees with us and recognizes the substantial benefits of merging with Jos. A. Bank," said Eminence Capital Chief Executive Ricky Sandler. The last person to push Men's Wearhouse to sell itself was its founder, George Zimmer, known to U.S. television audiences for his advertising catch phrase, "You're gonna like the way you look - I guarantee it". Zimmer was ousted by the board in June after arguing for a sale of the company to an investment group. At the time, he accused the board of trying to silence him for expressing concerns about the direction of a company he founded 40 years ago. Jos. A. Bank was not immediately available for comment. As of August 3, the company had cash and cash equivalents of about $333.2 million and no long-term debt. PAC-MAN DEFENSE The unusual tactic of a target firm turning around to try and buy a previous suitor is known as a Pac-Man defense, named after a 1980s video game where Pac-Man turns on the ghosts trying to kill him. Men's Wearhouse swiftly rebuffed Jos. A. Bank's offer in October to buy it for $2.3 billion, or $48 per share. Jos. A. Bank walked away from the bid on November 15, although it did not rule out another bid. In a statement on Tuesday, Men's Wearhouse said it had the "advantage in scale, growth and performance" to combine the two chains. "We believe we are the right acquirer for this combination and that our experienced management team is best positioned to execute the integration of our companies," said Bill Sechrest, lead director of the board of Men's Wearhouse. Men's Wearhouse, based in Fremont, California, operates more than 1,100 stores under the Men's Wearhouse, Moores and K&amp;G banners. Jos. A. Bank, a century-old seller of men's tailored and casual clothing, has more than 600 stores in the United States. "Men's Wearhouse's leadership was not only personally offended by the efforts of Jos A. Bank to try to take them over, but they see this as an opportunity to strengthen their business by eliminating the competition," said Reisman. After rejecting the October offer, Men's Wearhouse also adopted a poison pill to prevent a hostile takeover. It also said at the time that a combination of the two companies raised anti-trust issues. Men's Wearhouse shares were trading up 5.5 percent at $49.72 on the New York Stock Exchange. (Additional reporting by Olivia Oran; Writing by Robin Paxton; Editing by Rodney Joyce)
Hedge fund manager Steve Cohen has at least one easy way to make up some of the $1.2 billion he recently agreed to pay the government: Cash in on SAC Capital Advisors' sprawling real estate holdings that stretch across three continents. Much has been made of billionaire Cohen's personal properties. His homes, all in the New York City area, include a $23.1 million, 35,000 square foot mansion in Greenwich, Conn.; a $115 million midtown duplex already for sale; two West Village residences valued at $23.4 million and $38.8 million, respectively; and adjacent homes in East Hampton, N.Y. worth an estimated $62.5 million and $18 million respectively based on purchase prices, according to a recent Forbes report. What has gotten less attention is Cohen's array of luxury office space. He's started moving some of it already; the embattled $14 billion hedge fund firm plans to close its trading operation in London's posh financial center‚Äîcalled the "City"‚Äîby year end. What's unclear is if SAC will also rent or sell its other offices. In addition to its two-building Stamford, Conn. headquarters, the firm works out of two sleek locations in midtown Manhattan and one in Hong Kong's high-end "Central" neighborhood. SAC also has separate administrative locations for records in Boston, Singapore, Beijing and Tokyo, according to government filings. In early November, SAC pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges and agreed to pay a $1.2 billion fine, pending approval by a judge. Cohen, who has not been personally charged with any crime, also agreed to stop managing outside capital. That comes on top of a previous $616 million fine by the Securities and Exchange Commission for related charges. Those deals are separate from two trails of former SAC employees charged with insider trading, Michael Steinberg and Mathew Martoma. SAC is attempting to sublet one floor of its space at 330 Madison Ave. in New York, according to people familiar with the situation and marketing materials. The firm put the entire 33rd floor up for rent around Aug. 1 but has yet to find a tenant. The 9,818-square-foot space has "good light and views" and an "elegant pantry," according to the materials. SAC is asking $85 a square foot per month to take over a lease that ends in July 2021. The firm is keeping two other floors in the same building, which also houses satellite offices for $190 billion Guggenheim Partners. SAC paid between $70 and $83 a square foot when it signed the 10-year lease at 330 Madison in 2010 for more than 33,000 square feet over three floors, according to a real estate broker with access to deal data. Today, the average asking price for an office in midtown Manhattan is $71.21 a square foot, according to real estate firm CBRE Group. The average for a boutique financial services building like 330 Madison is $106.54 a square foot. The peak for such so-called "Class A" space before the financial crisis was $128 and the nadir in 2009 was $64. A spokesman for SAC declined to comment, but a person familiar with the situation said the move was unrelated to the family office transition and did not represent cuts to the business. SAC added a second Manhattan office at 510 Madison Ave. in May 2011 and was already planning to consolidate the location of some staff, according to the person. A group of quantitative traders who previously occupied the floor now up for rent are now on a different floor in the same building. That 510 Madison office‚Äîone of the premiere locations for hedge funds in New York City‚Äîcould attract even higher rental prices were SAC to downsize. SAC has about 70,000 square feet spread between the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth floors. The firm took a 10-year lease for the space in 2011 and was one of the first tenants in the building, which features a pool, gym, floor-to-ceiling windows and 10-foot ceilings. SAC paid between $80 and $99 a square foot, according to people familiar with the situation. Based on recent leases, SAC could get between $100 and $140 a square foot for a sublease, according to a broker with knowledge of the market. Other tenants in 510 Madison include hedge fund firms Senator Investment Group, Valinor Management, Junto Capital Partners and Jay Goldman &amp; Co. "SAC can salvage value from its existing office space as it is located in two premier buildings," said Jonathan Luttwak, co-head of global alternative investment services at real estate broker Cushman &amp; Wakefield. Luttwak said SAC would almost certainly get more than it paid. "Not surprisingly, SAC also signed for their existing space at relatively low points in the market and is paying low rents for those buildings," he said. SAC's headquarters on the Stamford waterfront would fetch far less. The firm's main offices at 72 Cummings Point Road--which features the large trading floor that Cohen himself sits in the middle of--would get about $35 a square foot to rent, according to a person with knowledge of the local market. A second building nearby at 22 Gatehouse Road would likely get less, about $30 a square foot. "Stamford in general is a sought-after location for financial firms and it's basically as acceptable as Greenwich for hedge funds," said Steve Greenbush, a Stamford-based broker with CBRE. "At the same time, we've seen a slowdown in demand since the financial crisis so the market isn't quite as hot as it once was." SAC would have some high-powered help were it to downsize. Its primary broker in New York is Newmark Grubb Knight Frank vice chairman Neil Goldmacher, widely considered a dean of Manhattan hedge fund real estate. In Connecticut, SAC has recently been represented by Brian Carcaterra of CBRE. Carcaterra worked at Newmark from 2003 to September 2012 and is close to Cohen's firm through a personal relationship with soon-to-depart Chief Operating Officer Sol Kumin. Carcaterra and Kumin both played on the same lacrosse team as undergraduates at Johns Hopkins in the late 1990s. The two men initially took different paths after college. Kumin stayed in finance and joined fast-growing SAC early in his career. He rose quickly and ultimately "helped create our global strategy and footprint," as Cohen put it in a November 21 note to SAC employees. Carcaterra, by contrast, played professional lacrosse from 2000 to 2003 and was a Major League Lacrosse All-Star and champion, according to his CBRE biography. Goldmacher and Carcaterra didn't respond to requests for comment.¬† Potential prices for SAC's key offices abroad vary. The average rent for "Grade A" office space in London's City neighborhood range from $71 to $89 a square foot, according to a third-quarter report from Cushman &amp; Wakefield. Average luxury rents in Hong Kong are around $103 a square foot, according to the same report.
Every December, we're bombarded with "best of" lists, those seemingly subjective takes on which songs and movies ruled 2013. But the best thing about the market is that it's completely objective ‚Äî we can rank the best of 2013 with certitude. Bloomberg Markets Magazine has done just that, looking at estimates made by hundreds of market forecasters. Economists were scored based on their predictions of indicators such as GDP, consumer price index, durable goods orders, consumer confidence, PMI, and the like. In terms of overall predictive ability, JP Morgan took home the top prize, followed by Standard Chartered and Royal Bank of Scotland. Here's Bloomberg's list, broken down by region of the world and complete with composite score. Commence bragging. U.S. Eurozone Australia Canada China India Indonesia Japan Mexico U.K. Top Firms Overall
REUTERS/Heinz-Peter BaderGold granules are poured into a glowing melting pot at the Austrian Gold and Silver Separating Plant 'Oegussa' in Vienna, April 16, 2013."Gold is down 27% for the year and on track for its most dismal annual performance since 1981," noted Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg in his latest Breakfast With Dave note. John Paulson and George Soros were among the big gold bulls that cut back on gold this year. Retail investors have pulled out aggressively as seen by the 1,850 metric ton drop in gold ETF holdings. Despite the drop, Rosenberg isn't recommending buying. "The reasons for gold's hurdles are multifold," he said. Here's his list (verbatim): You know things are bad when you're losing investors to Bitcoin.
The price of frozen turkeys is in a monster bull market. Bloomberg Chief Economist Michael McDonough just Tweeted the following chart showing the evolution of Turkey prices over the past two decades. Since mid-2006, the price of a 15 lb. bird is up 60%, to $27.29.¬† Michael McDonough/Bloomberg McDonough also included the price of corn, which has been falling. Americans feed on corn, which should bring some relief to the cost of serving Thanksgiving dinner. Turkeys also feed on corn. But the main driver of turkey prices lately has been booming overseas demand. Below is the list of countries the U.S. now ships turkeys to. You can see that many saw incredible growth in recent years. USDA
If you head down to Moscow's Red Square today, you'll see a giant, three story Louis Vuitton suitcase.  The temporary building is almost 30 feet tall and houses the exhibition ìSoul of Adventures," which is designed to celebrate the 120th anniversary of the adjacent GUM mall†where Louis Vuitton has its flagship Russian store, according to Bloomberg. Not everyone is happy with the exhibition, however. The Moscow Times reports that Sergei Obukhov, a†Duma deputy from†the Communist Party, accused the†Kremlin of†"undermining state foundations" by†"deriding and†mocking" Red Square.  Red Square is a UNESCO World Heritage site, but Obukhov may be more annoyed by the fact that the suitcase towers over Lenin's Mausoleum, the building that houses the embalmed body of the Russian communist leader. However, even members of Putin-linked party United Russia are unsure about the exhibition. Duma deputy Alexander Sidyakin has asked the†Moscow branch of†the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service to†examine whether the†pavilion is in†violation of†Moscow's architectural and†advertising rules, the Moscow Times reports. Sidyakin says the building is of an "unreasonably gigantic size." 
IMDBBreakfast At Tiffany'sLuxury jeweler Tiffany &amp; Co. is up 7.7% to $87.20, after the company beat Q3 revenue estimates and raised its 2013 profit outlook. The company reported Q3 earnings of $0.73 per diluted share, on revenue of $911 million. This beat expectations for $0.58 per share on revenue of $890 million. Sales were boosted by strong performance in Asia and the U.S. Comparable store sales in the Asia-Pacific region were up 22% in the third quarter and 15% year-to-date.  Total sales were up 27% to $238 million in Q3, and 20% year-to-date, to $670 million.† In the Americas, comp-store sales were up 1% in Q3 and Ytd in its flagship New York stores. Total sales were up 4% to $417 million, and up 4% year-to-date to $1.3 billion. The company also raised its guidance and now expected full-year earnings in the range of $3.65-$3.75 per diluted share, from $3.50-$3.60 per diluted share in its previous outlook.
via EllimanThe New York Post's Jennifer Gould Keil reports that former Bernie Madoff partner/neighbor Maurice "Sonny" Cohn has sold his Amagansett beachfront home for $11 million.¬† The home was listed by Elliman for $12.9 million.¬† Cohn ran a feeder fund called Cohmad Securities (a combination of¬†"Cohn" and "Madoff") that introduced investor capital to Madoff's investment company,¬†according to ProPublica. Madoff was convicted of running a massive ponzi scheme. ¬†He is serving a 150 year prison sentence in Butner, North Carolina. ¬† Cohn and his associates settled with the Securities and Exchange Commission back in 2010. ¬† Now let's tour Cohn's recently sold beach digs. ¬†
My first year on Wall Street, 1993, I was paid 14 times more than I earned the prior year and three times more than my father's best year. For that money, I helped my company create financial products that were disguised to look simple, but which required complex math to properly understand. That first year I was roundly applauded by my bosses, who told me I was clever, and to my surprise they gave me $20,000 bonus beyond my salary. The products were sold to many investors, many who didn‚Äôt fully understand what they were buying, most of them what we called ‚Äúclueless Japanese.‚Äù The profits to my company were huge ‚Äì hundreds of millions of dollars huge. The main product that made my firm great money for close to five years was was called, in typically dense finance jargon, a YIF, or a Yield Indexed Forward. Eventually, investors got wise, realizing what they had bought was complex, loaded with hidden leverage, and became most dangerous during moments of distress. I never did meet the buyers; that was someone else's job. I stayed behind the spreadsheets. My job was to try to extract as much value as possible through math and clever trading. Japan would send us faxes of documents from our competitors. Many were selling far weirder products and doing it in far larger volume than we were. The conversation with our Japanese customers would end with them urging us on: ‚ÄúWe can‚Äôt fall behind.‚Äù When I did ask, rather naively, if this was all kosher, I would be assured multiple times that multiple lawyers and multiple managers had approved the sales. One senior trader, consoling me late at night, reminded me, ‚ÄúYou are playing in the big leagues now. If a customer wants a red suit, you sell them a red suit. If that customer is Japanese, you charge him twice what it costs.‚Äù I rationalized that our group was careful by Wall Street standards, trying to stay close to the letter of the law. We tried to abide by an unwritten "five-point rule": never intentionally make more than five percentage points of profit from a customer. Some competitors didn‚Äôt care about the rule. They were making 7% or 10% profit per trade from clients, selling exotic products loaded with hidden traps. I assumed they would eventually face legal charges, or at least public embarrassment, for pushing so clearly away from the spirit of the law. They didn‚Äôt. Rather, they got paid better, were lauded as true risk takers, and offered big pay packages to manage similar businesses. Being paid very well also helped ease any of my concerns. Feeling guilty, kid? Here take a big check. I was, for the first time in my life, feeling valued for my math skills ‚Äì the ones I had to hide throughout my childhood, so as not be labeled a nerd or egghead. Ego and money are nice salves for any potential feeling of guilt. After a few years on Wall Street it was clear to me: you could make money by gaming anyone and everything. The more clever you were, the more ingenious your ability to exploit a flaw in a law or regulation, the more lauded and celebrated you became. Nobody seemed to be getting called out. No move was too audacious. It was like driving past the speed limit at 79 MPH, and watching others pass by at 100, or 110, and never seeing anyone pulled over. Wall Street did nod and wave politely to regulators‚Äô attempts to slow things down. Every employee had to complete a yearly compliance training, where he was updated on things like money laundering, collusion, insider trading, and selling our customers only financial products that were suitable to them. By the early 2000s that compliance training had descended into a once-a-year farce, designed to literally just check a box. It became a one-hour lecture held in a massive hall. Everyone had to go once, listen to the rushed presentation, and then sign a form. You could look down at the audience and see row after row of blue buttoned shirts playing on their Blackberries. I reached new highs on Brick Breaker one year during compliance training. My compliance education that year was still complete. By 2007 the idea of ethics education fell even further. You didn't even need to show up to a lecture hall; you just had to log on to an online course. It was one hour of slides that you worked through, blindly pushing the ‚Äúforward‚Äù button while your attention was somewhere else. Some managers, too busy for such nonsense, even paid younger employees to sit at their computers and do it for them. As Wall Street grew, fueled by that unchecked culture of risk taking, traders got more and more audacious, and corruption became more and more diffused through the system. By 2006 you could open up almost any major business, look at its inside workings, and find some wrongdoing. After the crash of 2008, regulators finally did exactly that. What has resulted is a wave of scandals with odd names; LIBOR fixing, FX collusion, ISDA Fix. To outsiders they sound like complex acronyms that occupy the darkest corners of Wall Street, easily dismissed as anomalies. They are not. LIBOR, FX, ISDA Fix are at the very center of finance, part of the daily flow of trillions of dollars. The scandals are scarily close to what some on Wall Street believe is standard business practice, a matter of shades of grey. I imagine the people who are named in the scandals are genuinely confused as to why they are being singled out. They were just doing what almost everyone else was, maybe just more aggressive, more reckless. They were doing what they had been trained to do: bending the rules, pushing as far as they could to beat competitors. They had been applauded in the past for their aggressive risk taking, no doubt. Now they are just whipping boys. That's the paradox at the core of the settlements we're seeing: where is the real responsibility? Others were doing it, yes. Banks should be fined, yes. But somebody should be charged. Yet the people who really should be held accountable have not. They are the bosses, the managers and CEOs of the businesses. They set the standard, they shaped the culture. The Chuck Princes, Dick Fulds, and Fred Goodwins of the world. They happily shepherded and profited from a Wall Street that spun out of control. A precedent needs to be set, to slow down Wall Street‚Äôs wild behavior. A reminder that rules are there to be followed, not exploited. The managers knew what was going on. Ask anyone who works at a bank and they will tell you that. The excuse we have long accepted is ignorance: that these leaders couldn't have known what was happening. That doesn't suffice. If they didn't know, it's an even larger sin. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Library of CongressThe Richmond Federal Reserve's manufacturing survey came in at 13. Expectations were for a tick of 4.  October had printed at 1. The survey measures industrial activity from Maryland to South Carolina and out to West Virginia. Full release ¬ª Indices increased across the board, with shipments surging 18 points to a reading of 16. The employees-gained index improved two points to a reading of 6. Outlook also improved.¬†"Producers anticipated stronger business conditions in the next six months," the report said. Here's the chart for headline activity. You can see it's come up slightly in the past few months after a lengthy decline. Richmond Federal Reserve The hiring outlook improved three points to a reading of 16. The expected-shipments index climbed seen points to a reading of 37, and the outlook for new orders gained 10 points to a reading of 33.¬† "Survey participants looked for little change in the average workweek during the next six months. The index settled at 2, following the previous reading of 5. Survey participants expected average wages to rise more quickly in the next six months; that index gained 10 points in November, finishing at 31." "Vendor lead-time shortened, shaving three points from last month's index, to settle at 8. The backlog of orders index gained 14 points moving to a reading of ‚àí1. Capacity utilization flattened in November; the index gained five points, leveling off at 0. Finished goods and raw materials built up at a slightly slower rate this month. Those indexes shed one and three points respectively, with both gauges ending at a reading of 13." Click here for updates...
APThe Conference Board's consumer confidence index fell to 70.4, missing economist expectations for a 72.6 reading. October's figure was revised to 72.4, from 71.2. "Sentiment regarding current conditions was mixed, with consumers saying the job market had strengthened, while economic conditions had slowed. However, these sentiments did not carry over into the short-term outlook,"¬†The Conference Board's Lynn Franco said in a statement.¬†"When looking ahead six months, consumers expressed greater concern about future job and earning prospects, but remain neutral about economic conditions. All in all, with such uncertainly prevailing, this could be a challenging holiday season for retailers." The revised October reading plummeted largely as a result of the government shutdown and debt ceiling, which "took a particularly large toll on consumers' expectations," according to the report. The Conference Board measures optimism regarding the economy by looking at consumer spending and savings activity. Here's the full press release: The Conference Board¬†Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ, which had decreased sharply in October, declined again in November. The Index now stands at 70.4 (1985=100), down from 72.4 in October. The Present Situation Index edged down to 72.0 from 72.6. The Expectations Index declined to 69.3 from 72.2 last month. The monthly¬†Consumer Confidence Survey¬Æ, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was November 15. Said Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board: ‚ÄúConsumer confidence declined moderately in November after sharply declining in October. Sentiment regarding current conditions was mixed, with consumers saying the job market had strengthened, while economic conditions had slowed. However, these sentiments did not carry over into the short-term outlook. When looking ahead six months, consumers expressed greater concern about future job and earning prospects, but remain neutral about economic conditions. All in all, with such uncertainly prevailing, this could be a challenging holiday season for retailers.‚Äù Consumers‚Äô assessment of overall current conditions decreased slightly. Those claiming business conditions are ‚Äúgood‚Äù edged up to 19.9 percent from 19.5 percent, while those claiming business conditions are ‚Äúbad‚Äù increased to 25.2 percent from 23.0 percent. Consumers‚Äô appraisal of the job market was little changed. Those saying jobs are ‚Äúplentiful‚Äù ticked up to 11.8 percent from 11.6 percent, while those saying jobs are ‚Äúhard to get‚Äù decreased slightly to 34.0 percent from 34.9 percent. Consumers‚Äô expectations, which had decreased sharply in October, declined further in November. Those expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months increased slightly to 16.6 percent from 16.0 percent, while those expecting business conditions to worsen decreased to 16.8 percent from 17.5 percent. However, consumers‚Äô outlook for the labor market was more pessimistic. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead fell to 12.7 percent from 16.0 percent, but those anticipating fewer jobs also decreased to 21.7 percent from 22.6 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase declined to 14.9 percent from 15.7 percent. Those expecting a decrease in their incomes rose slightly to 15.9 percent from 15.5 percent.
ShutterstockThis post is sponsored by TD Canada Trust. College is cheaper in Canada. Want another reason to envy the country up north? Canadians can get free money for college. That is, if they apply for it.† If you're a Canadian resident with a child 17 years old or younger, you have the option to put your money into a Registered Education Savings Plan (RESP), a tax shelter†intended to help save for post-secondary education in Canada. Put money into an RESP and you can not only save money but also get cash on top of that. But if you don't take advantage, it could end up hurting your wallet ó badly. 1. The government will kick in some cash.†The first $36,000 (Canadian) you contribute to an RESP will be eligible for a 20% Canada Education Savings Grant, or $7,200 per child.†There is no limit to how much you can contribute yearly, although there is a lifetime maximum of $50,000 per child. Use the RESP Calculator†from TD Canada Trust to figure out how much you ought to save. † 2. You can delay taxes, paying them at a lower rate later.†You don't owe taxes on the money in the RESP until you withdraw it. And when you take the money out, it's at the student's (usually much lower) tax rate ó not yours. The money can be disbursed to either you or your child.† 3. You don't have to worry about not having a lot of money to contribute.†But the sooner you start, the more you can save. You can generally start an RESP account with just $500. But youíd have to contribute $2,500 per year to get the maximum grant.†You can opt to have deductions taken out of your paycheck, automatically.† 4. You have some control over how the investments are made.†As with a targeted retirement fund, you can choose how aggressive you want your RESP account to be. †† 5. There's more money out there. If your child was born in 2004 or later and your family income is less than $43,561 (Canadian), you're probably eligible for a special $500 grant, which would go directly into the RESP. You can also apply for an additional $100 per year, if you have an eligible level of income.† 6. Your children can contribute to the RESP.†Money from your children's after-school jobs can be earmarked for their future education costs.† As the end of the year approaches, it's an ideal time to start to start calculating your budgets for 2014†ó and how investing in an RESP can be part of your investment planning. Canadian parents should talk to a financial expert†to find out more about Canada's RESP program. Find out†more about Sponsor Posts.
Forward earnings, which is the time-weighted average of consensus operating earnings for the current year and next year, is a very good year-ahead leading indicator of actual earnings over the next four quarters So there's a good chance that the S&amp;P 500 will earn about $120 per share in 2014, which coincides with my forecast. That forward earnings number is currently in the market with the forward P/E at 15, up from about 10 during the summer of 2011. That was a retest of the P/E low in March 2009. Forward earnings are also at record highs for the S&amp;P 400 MidCaps and S&amp;P 600 SmallCaps with their respective forward P/Es at 16.9 and 18.5. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Thanksgiving. (1) Counting our blessings. (2) Thanks to Tom Hanks. (3) Symbology and strategy. (4) From 666 to 1802. (5) Is there any meaning in 777? (6) Since March 2009, forward earnings up 83%, P/E up 45%. (7) Net Earnings Revisions Indexes are mostly negative around the world. (8) NERI dives in France and runs out of mojo in Tokyo. (9) NERI upticks in China and India. (10) Focus on market-weight-rated housing-related stocks. (More for subscribers.)
AP Photo/L'Osservatore Romano, ho Pope Francis is out with the first big, written text of his papacy.¬†The full text can be found here (via Izabella Kaminska). The section of the text that's getting the most attention is his powerful denouncement of our current financial system, the obsession with consumption, inequality, and the tyranny of capitalism. The key part of the text is below, though first here a few lines that really stand out. On the importance of remembering those who are less fortunate: "We can only praise the steps being taken to improve people‚Äôs welfare in areas such as health care, education and communications. At the same time we have to remember that the majority of our contemporaries are barely living from day to day, with dire consequences." On the seriousness of economic exclusion: "Just as the commandment 'Thou shalt not kill' sets a clear limit in order to safeguard the value of human life, today we also have to say 'thou shalt not' to an economy of exclusion and inequality. Such an economy kills." On the failure of traditional economic dogmas: ¬†"... some people continue to defend trickle-down theories which assume that economic growth, encouraged by a free market, will inevitably succeed in bringing about greater justice and inclusiveness in the world. This opinion, which has never been confirmed by the facts, expresses a crude and na√Øve trust in the goodness of those wielding economic power and in the sacralized workings of the prevailing economic system. Meanwhile, the excluded are still waiting."¬† On exploding inequality: "While the earnings of a minority are growing exponentially, so too is the gap separating the majority from the prosperity enjoyed by those happy few." On the world's obsession with money: "We have created new idols. The worship of the ancient golden calf (cf.¬†Ex¬†32:1-35) has returned in a new and ruthless guise in the idolatry of money and the dictatorship of an impersonal economy lacking a truly human purpose."¬† On the dangerous mix of inequality and consumerism: "It is evident that unbridled consumerism combined with inequality proves doubly damaging to the social fabric." On the role of the state in providing for the common good and regulating the economy: "This imbalance is the result of ideologies which defend the absolute autonomy of the marketplace and financial speculation. Consequently, they reject the right of states, charged with vigilance for the common good, to exercise any form of control. " Here's the whole section: I.¬†SOME CHALLENGES OF TODAY‚ÄôS WORLD 52. In our time humanity is experiencing a turning-point in its history, as we can see from the advances being made in so many fields. We can only praise the steps being taken to improve people‚Äôs welfare in areas such as health care, education and communications. At the same time we have to remember that the majority of our contemporaries are barely living from day to day, with dire consequences. A number of diseases are spreading. The hearts of many people are gripped by fear and desperation, even in the so-called rich countries. The joy of living frequently fades, lack of respect for others and violence are on the rise, and inequality is increasingly evident. It is a struggle to live and, often, to live with precious little dignity. This epochal change has been set in motion by the enormous qualitative, quantitative, rapid and cumulative advances occurring in the sciences and in technology, and by their instant application in different areas of nature and of life. We are in an age of knowledge and information, which has led to new and often anonymous kinds of power. No to an economy of exclusion 53. Just as the commandment ‚ÄúThou shalt not kill‚Äù sets a clear limit in order to safeguard the value of human life, today we also have to say ‚Äúthou shalt not‚Äù to an economy of exclusion and inequality. Such an economy kills. How can it be that it is not a news item when an elderly homeless person dies of exposure, but it is news when the stock market loses two points? This is a case of exclusion. Can we continue to stand by when food is thrown away while people are starving? This is a case of inequality. Today everything comes under the laws of competition and the survival of the fittest, where the powerful feed upon the powerless. As a consequence, masses of people find themselves excluded and marginalized: without work, without possibilities, without any means of escape. Human beings are themselves considered consumer goods to be used and then discarded. We have created a ‚Äúdisposable‚Äù culture which is now spreading. It is no longer simply about exploitation and oppression, but something new. Exclusion ultimately has to do with what it means to be a part of the society in which we live; those excluded are no longer society‚Äôs underside or its fringes or its disenfranchised ‚Äì they are no longer even a part of it. The excluded are not the ‚Äúexploited‚Äù but the outcast, the ‚Äúleftovers‚Äù. 54. In this context, some people continue to defend trickle-down theories which assume that economic growth, encouraged by a free market, will inevitably succeed in bringing about greater justice and inclusiveness in the world. This opinion, which has never been confirmed by the facts, expresses a crude and na√Øve trust in the goodness of those wielding economic power and in the sacralized workings of the prevailing economic system. Meanwhile, the excluded are still waiting. To sustain a lifestyle which excludes others, or to sustain enthusiasm for that selfish ideal, a globalization of indifference has developed. Almost without being aware of it, we end up being incapable of feeling compassion at the outcry of the poor, weeping for other people‚Äôs pain, and feeling a need to help them, as though all this were someone else‚Äôs responsibility and not our own. The culture of prosperity deadens us; we are thrilled if the market offers us something new to purchase; and in the meantime all those lives stunted for lack of opportunity seem a mere spectacle; they fail to move us. No to the new idolatry of money 55. One cause of this situation is found in our relationship with money, since we calmly accept its dominion over ourselves and our societies. The current financial crisis can make us overlook the fact that it originated in a profound human crisis: the denial of the primacy of the human person! We have created new idols. The worship of the ancient golden calf (cf.¬†Ex¬†32:1-35) has returned in a new and ruthless guise in the idolatry of money and the dictatorship of an impersonal economy lacking a truly human purpose. The worldwide crisis affecting finance and the economy lays bare their imbalances and, above all, their lack of real concern for human beings; man is reduced to one of his needs alone: consumption. 56. While the earnings of a minority are growing exponentially, so too is the gap separating the majority from the prosperity enjoyed by those happy few. This imbalance is the result of ideologies which defend the absolute autonomy of the marketplace and financial speculation. Consequently, they reject the right of states, charged with vigilance for the common good, to exercise any form of control. A new tyranny is thus born, invisible and often virtual, which unilaterally and relentlessly imposes its own laws and rules. Debt and the accumulation of interest also make it difficult for countries to realize the potential of their own economies and keep citizens from enjoying their real purchasing power. To all this we can add widespread corruption and self-serving tax evasion, which have taken on worldwide dimensions. The thirst for power and possessions knows no limits. In this system, which tends to devour everything which stands in the way of increased profits, whatever is fragile, like the environment, is defenseless before the interests of a deified market, which become the only rule. No to a financial system which rules rather than serves 57. Behind this attitude lurks a rejection of ethics and a rejection of God. Ethics has come to be viewed with a certain scornful derision. It is seen as counterproductive, too human, because it makes money and power relative. It is felt to be a threat, since it condemns the manipulation and debasement of the person. In effect, ethics leads to a God who calls for a committed response which is outside of the categories of the marketplace. When these latter are absolutized, God can only be seen as uncontrollable, unmanageable, even dangerous, since he calls human beings to their full realization and to freedom from all forms of enslavement. Ethics ‚Äì a non-ideological ethics ‚Äì would make it possible to bring about balance and a more humane social order. With this in mind, I encourage financial experts and political leaders to ponder the words of one of the sages of antiquity: ‚ÄúNot to share one‚Äôs wealth with the poor is to steal from them and to take away their livelihood. It is not our own goods which we hold, but theirs‚Äù.[55] 58. A financial reform open to such ethical considerations would require a vigorous change of approach on the part of political leaders. I urge them to face this challenge with determination and an eye to the future, while not ignoring, of course, the specifics of each case. Money must serve, not rule! The Pope loves everyone, rich and poor alike, but he is obliged in the name of Christ to remind all that the rich must help, respect and promote the poor. I exhort you to generous solidarity and a return of economics and finance to an ethical approach which favours human beings.¬† No to the inequality which spawns violence ¬†59. Today in many places we hear a call for greater security. But until exclusion and inequality in society and between peoples is reversed, it will be impossible to eliminate violence. The poor and the poorer peoples are accused of violence, yet without equal opportunities the different forms of aggression and conflict will find a fertile terrain for growth and eventually explode. When a society ‚Äì whether local, national or global ‚Äì is willing to leave a part of itself on the fringes, no political programmes or resources spent on law enforcement or surveillance systems can indefinitely guarantee tranquility. This is not the case simply because inequality provokes a violent reaction from those excluded from the system, but because the socioeconomic system is unjust at its root. Just as goodness tends to spread, the toleration of evil, which is injustice, tends to expand its baneful influence and quietly to undermine any political and social system, no matter how solid it may appear. If every action has its consequences, an evil embedded in the structures of a society has a constant potential for disintegration and death. It is evil crystallized in unjust social structures, which cannot be the basis of hope for a better future. We are far from the so-called ‚Äúend of history‚Äù, since the conditions for a sustainable and peaceful development have not yet been adequately articulated and realized. ¬†60. Today‚Äôs economic mechanisms promote inordinate consumption, yet it is evident that unbridled consumerism combined with inequality proves doubly damaging to the social fabric. Inequality eventually engenders a violence which recourse to arms cannot and never will be able to resolve. This serves only to offer false hopes to those clamouring for heightened security, even though nowadays we know that weapons and violence, rather than providing solutions, create new and more serious conflicts. Some simply content themselves with blaming the poor and the poorer countries themselves for their troubles; indulging in unwarranted generalizations, they claim that the solution is an ‚Äúeducation‚Äù that would tranquilize them, making them tame and harmless. All this becomes even more exasperating for the marginalized in the light of the widespread and deeply rooted corruption found in many countries ‚Äì in their governments, businesses and institutions ‚Äì whatever the political ideology of their leaders. Read the full text here ¬ª
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachU.S. stocks have had quite a run this year. But investors have poured into stocks in general and we're on course for the biggest equity inflows since 2004. Investors have also taken the opportunity to move into stocks outside the U.S. In fact, investors began pouring into European stocks around the same time the region started to emerge from its recession. Though the initial wave can be traced back to when European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi promised to do "whatever it takes" to save the euro. European stocks have had a good third quarter, with a return of 8% on MSCI Europe. This in a backdrop of¬† concerns about the Fed tapering its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program, the emerging market crisis, and concerns about the formation of government in Germany. European equities have now seen 21 straight weeks of inflows, according to Bank of America's Michael Hartnett. On a rolling-three month basis, inflows into European equity funds exceed inflows to U.S. equity funds as a percent of assets under management (AUM) by the widest margin since April 2009.¬† With all this in mind should investors consider adding to European positions or diversifying into them if they still haven't? Investors should ask their advisors to go over their asset allocation again, and understand how such a diversification would affect their portfolio. It's important to know if this would fit in with their end goals. They should also ask if their exposure should be to individual countries or to a benchmark index. Investors also need to understand the risks that come with investing in European companies and understand the economic exposure the companies bring. The bullishness on European stocks has stemmed from a few key factors, points outs Dario Perkins of Lombard Street Research. 1. Concerns over a breakdown of the European Monetary Union have faded. 2. The European economy is beginning to recovery. 3. Profitability in Europe would increase as a result of "supply-side reforms and improving competitiveness." 4. European stocks are cheaper than U.S. stocks. But investors need to hash out this out with their advisors and see if the optimism is in fact warranted. Finally, they should also ask their advisors if there are any alternative European assets that might be a better fit for them.
REUTERS/Bobby YipA Ferrari 458 Spider is loaded onto a truck after being bought by a young Chinese at its showroom in Shenzhen in this May 28, 2012 file picture.It's one of the largest and most rapid wealth migrations of our time: hundreds of billions of dollars, and waves of millionaires flowing out of China to overseas destinations. According to WealthInsight, the Chinese wealthy now have about $658 billion stashed in offshore assets. Boston Consulting Group puts the number lower, at around $450 billion, but says offshore investments are expected to double in the next three years. A study from Bain Consulting found that half of China's ultrawealthyóthose with $16 million or more in wealthónow have investments overseas. And it's not just the money that's exiting the country. The wealthy are increasingly following their money overseas. A study by Hurun and Bank of China found that more than half of China's millionaires are considering emigrating or have already taken steps to move overseas. (Read more: China has a word for its crass new rich) Many experts say that the wealthy are moving to protect their wealth, their health and their families. With China increasingly cracking down on ill-gotten gains and corruption, many of the politically connected wealthy are looking for safer havens abroad. They are also looking for better environments for their childrenówith better schools and cleaner air. "Whether it is the perceived political instability or perhaps lack of educational opportunities, or pollution in the urban environments there, when you put those altogether ... and you mix that with the wealth that's present in China now, it really makes sense that there are folks there looking to explore these opportunities," said Peter Joseph of the Association to Invest in the USA, which represents investor-visa programs in the U.S. (Read more: Countries woo rich Chinese with citizenship abroad) Some say the capital flight and millionaire migration are normal consequences of rising wealth. Oliver Williams, of WealthInsight, said that the Chinese wealthy have about 13 percent of their wealth overseasóbelow the global average of 20 percent to 30 percent. Still, much of China's offshore wealth is moved illegally or in the shadow economy. China maintains a closed capital account and Chinese citizens are generally not permitted to move more than $50,000 out of the country. So reliable data on exactly how much money is moving out remains unclear. But the global buying spree by wealthy Chinese suggests the numbers may be far higher than reported. Wealthy Chinese buyers purchased more than $8 billion worth of residential real estate in the U.S. in the 12 months ended in March, according to the National Association of Realtors. China's share of foreign-purchased residential real estate has jumped 50 percent since 2011. One of China's richest women, Zhang Xin of developer SOHO China, recently bought a townhouse in Manhattan for $26 million, according to reports. (Read more: China has the youngest billionaires) China's wealthy also are pouring money into collectibles and art. Billionaire Wang Jianlin and his company Dalian Wanda last month bought a Picasso at a Christie's auction for $28 million. Bidding from Chinese buyers was strong throughout the auctions, according to dealers and gallerists. It's also going to wine and diamonds. Diamond dealers say more than half of today's collectible diamonds are going to Chinese buyers. And on Saturday, the world's most expensive case of wineó1978 RomanÈe-Contiósold in Hong Kong for $476,000. óBy CNBC's Robert Frank. Follow him on Twitter: @robtfrank
IMF, YouTubeFor the last two weeks, people have been talking about a speech Larry Summers gave to the IMF about secular stagnation, bubbles, and negative interest rates. If you haven't read it yet, have no fear, Citigroup FX analyst Steven Englander has published a note on the speech wherein he summarizes it in two sentences: The ability of the economy to generate adequate demand is so impaired that we are getting financial bubbles before we get full employment. In consequence, under current policies episodes of full employment are fleeting and unsustainable. That's pretty disturbing and you can see why everyone's so interested. Read more on the speech here.
Housing data released this morning beat expectations†and may helpconvince the Federal Reserve to reduce its bond purchases in its December meeting depending on the November jobs report. Building permits increased 6.2% month over month in October to an annualized rate of 1.03 million, beating the expectations of 930,000. In September, permits rose at a 5.2% rate. This data had been delayed due to the government shutdown. This indicates that the housing market has continued strong growth despite rising mortgage rates throughout the summer. When the Fed announced in June that it would taper later in the year if the economy continued growing at a moderate pace, the market assumed that it was guaranteed. Mortgage rates immediately rose and continued to do so through August. The Fed feared that these higher rates would hold back the housing market and hurt the recovery. In response to that and other sub-par data, the Fed surprised the market and delayed tapering in September. From the September FOMC statement: The Committee sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished, on net, since last fall, but the tightening of financial conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow the pace of improvement in the economy and labor market. "Tightening of financial conditions" is a bit of a vague statement, but it has been widely assumed to mean that mortgage rates rose. This was part of what was ironic about the Fed not reducing its asset purchases. By pricing in the taper, the market caused rates to rise and actually forced the Fed to postpone the taper.† Since then, the market has been very interested in each piece of economic data. In this case, today's data shows that financial conditions are looser than the Fed believed in September and could convince the central bank that a December is the appropriate time to taper. Nevertheless, the most important piece of economic data is still 10 days way: the November jobs report. October's report was stronger than expected, but it was tough to interpret the results fully due to the government shutdown. The November report won't be perfect either, but it will still give us the most clear picture of the state of the labor market. If it comes in positively, the odds of a Dectaper will increase significantly.
VXLA via FlickrCase-Shiller home prices climbed 1.03% month-over-month in September, and were up 13.29% on the year. This¬† beat economists' expectations for a 0.9% month-over-month rise, and a 13% year-over-year rise. This was also the biggest gain since February 2006. August's numbers were revised down modestly, to show a 0.9% MoM rise, and a 12.8% YoY rise.¬† Home prices were up 3.2 in the third quarter and up 11.2% over the last four quarters. ‚ÄúThe strong price gains in the West are sparking questions and concerns about the possibility of another bubble. However the talk is focused on fear of a bubble, not a rush to join the party and buy," said David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices, in a press release. "Moreover, other data suggest a market beginning to shift to slower growth rather than one about to accelerate. Existing home sales weakened in the most recent report, home construction remains far below the boom levels of six or seven years ago and interest rates are expected to be higher a year from now." Millan Mulraine at TD Securities points out that the gains in home prices could be attributed to declining inventory of non-distressed properties, and not necessarily increasing demand ‚Äî existing and pending home sales have been falling ‚Äî "the continued upside in prices could be providing a fail signal on the strength of the housing recovery." He thinks this pace of home price growth isn't sustainable and expects it to slow to 5-8% in coming months. Analysts have warned for some time that the pace of home price growth would slow. Bank of America recently downgraded its 2013 home price forecast to 10% in 2013, from 11.8%. They attributed the downgrade to "the unanticipated spike in mortgage rates," that made their home price outlook seem "too optimistic." Here's a look at the trajectory of home prices: S&P Case-Shiller The FHFA will also release its home price data at 9 a.m.. 
Design By Zouny via Compfight ccThe FHFA home price index rose 0.3% in September, slightly missing expectations of 0.4%. Last month's print was revised up from 0.3% to 0.4%. The index was up 2.00% quarter-over-quarter in Q3, meeting analyst expectations but down from the prior reading of 2.10%. ‚ÄúOverall, the housing market experienced another strong quarter, but price appreciation in the latter part of the quarter was relatively subdued,‚Äù FHFA Principal Economist Andrew Leventis said in a statement. The index is calculated using home sales price information from mortgages sold to or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Some economists have expected home prices to cool off during the second half of the year. Case-Shiller home prices for September also came out this morning, climbing 13.29% year-over-year and beating expectations. Here's the full press release: Washington, D.C. ‚Äì Upward momentum in U.S. house prices remained strong in the third¬†quarter, as prices rose 2.0 percent from the previous quarter, according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) House Price Index (HPI). This is the ninth consecutive¬†quarterly price increase in the purchase-only, seasonally adjusted index and it marks the first time since 2009 that the national house price level is higher than it was five years ago. ‚ÄúOverall, the housing market experienced another strong quarter, but price appreciation in the latter part of the quarter was relatively subdued,‚Äù said FHFA Principal Economist Andrew Leventis. ‚ÄúPrice increases in August and September of 0.4 and 0.3 percent, respectively, were notably below appreciation rates observed earlier this year and in late 2012.‚Äù The HPI is calculated using home sales price information from mortgages sold to or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Compared with last year, house prices rose 8.4 percent¬†from the third quarter of 2012 to the third quarter of 2013. FHFA‚Äôs seasonally adjusted monthly index for September was up 0.3 percent from August.FHFA‚Äôs expanded-data house price index, a metric introduced in August 2011 that adds¬†transaction information from county recorder offices and the Federal Housing Administration to the HPI data sample, rose 2.2 percent over the latest quarter. Over the last four quarters, that index is up 8.8 percent. For individual states, price changes reflected in the expanded-data measure and the traditional purchase-only HPI are compared on pages 21-23 of this report. The seasonally adjusted, purchase-only HPI rose 8.4 percent from the third quarter of 2012 to the third quarter of 2013 while prices of other goods and services rose only 1.2 percent. The inflation-adjusted price of homes rose approximately 7.2 percent over the latest year. And here's a chart of index. FHFA
Wikimedia CommonsLevel I of the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam is being administered on December 7.¬† Unfortunately, that means that a bunch of young Wall Streeters will be cramming for the test over their Thanksgiving vacation.¬† It's an incredibly difficult test. Fewer than¬†20 percent of candidates¬†pass all three levels of the CFA program on the first try. ¬†What's more is it takes the¬†average test-taker five to six solid months to prepare. And the Level 1 exam is administered just once every six months. And if that doesn't sound completely horrible, we've heard some crazy horror stories. ¬† A Level II candidate shared with us a terrible story he witnessed in the men's restroom this past June for the Level I. ¬† Here's his tale: The afternoon session is about to start, so folks make their last minute run to the bathroom.¬† I‚Äôm in the bathroom and a fellow Level I candidate steps up to use the facilities (the urinals go all the way to the floor).¬† Candidates are carrying the various test-day items (calculator, passport, exam registration, etc.), and this particular guy didn‚Äôt seem to have any pockets.¬† So with hands full, he decides to put his belongings on the counter near the sink.¬† Not more than five seconds later, I hear all of his things drop to the floor.¬† The worst part: his calculator hits the floor, the case shoots underneath the sink‚Ä¶and the calculator flies right into a¬†urinal.¬† The look on his face was priceless.¬† All of us stare at the ill-fated calculator, then stare back at the poor guy, who says what each of us were thinking ‚Äì ‚ÄúI gotta have it. I can‚Äôt not have it‚Äù.¬† The poor guy uses some paper towels, grabs the calculator, rinses it quickly in the sink (but not too long for fear of ruining the batteries), and hurries out to the exam room. As I look back at this funny incident, I can‚Äôt help but think two things: (a) I would have done the same thing.¬† The calculator is your lifeblood for this test. (b) The guy never did use the bathroom.¬† That had to be a tough (and gross) afternoon session.¬† I have no idea if the guy passed or failed, but it sure made for a memorable test day. Hold on to your calculators, guys.¬† If you have a CFA horror story you'd like to share,¬†feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. ¬†
REUTERS/Mike BlakeBuilding permits surged 6.2% month-over-month in October to an annualized pace of 1.03 million. This was the highest level since June 2008. This beat expectations for a rise in annualized pace of 930,000. Permits were driven by the volatile multi-family sector. Single-family authorizations in October were at a rate of 620,000, up 0.8% on the month. Meanwhile, permits were up 5.2% on the month in September to an annualized pace of 974,000. The Commerce Department has said it will delay the September and October housing starts release until Dec. 18.¬† "The lapse in federal funding affected the data collection schedule for the Survey of Construction, which is the source of data on new housing unit starts and housing unit completions," according to the Commerce Department. "Accurate data collection for September and October could not be completed in time for the November 26 release. As a result, the December 18 release will include data on housing units started and completed in September, October and November 2013."
APThere was a meme going around yesterday that Greeks were giving themselves HIV en masse in order to get government benefits. ZeroHedge, for example, ran a piece titled: "Half Of New Greek HIV Cases Are Self-Inflicted To Receive Ä700 Per Month Benefits, Study Finds." It was all over Twitter, too. It turns out that this factoid was the result of some bad editing from a report by the World Health Organization. The WHO has issued a clarification: In September 2013, the WHO Regional Office for Europe published a report ìReview of social determinants and the health divide in the WHO European Regionî which was prepared by the Institute of Equity, University College London, United Kingdom. In this report, an erroneous reference is made to: ìHIV rates and heroin use have risen significantly, with about half of new HIV infections being self-inflicted to enable people to receive benefits of Ä700 per month and faster admission on to drug substitution programmes.î The sentence should read: "half of the new HIV cases are self-injecting and out of them few are deliberately inflicting the virus". The statement is the consequence of an error in the editing of the document, for which WHO apologizes. (Via @lorcanrk)†
Margin CallFrom Dave Lutz at Stifel, Nicolaus, a quick overview of what everyone is talking about today. Spoiler alert: It's very quiet. On this day in 1789, President George Washington set aside a day of thanksgiving in order to honor the adoption of the U.S. constitution. †US futures are basically unchanged, after the DJIA hit a record Close, and the NDX nearing 13Y highs yesterday. † Much was made of the ìHigh Betaî underperformance yesterday, a trend we have seen on Mon-Weds this entire month. † European Markets were up small, but volumes have collapsed as we bear into Holidays ñ EU markets trading 30-40% below 20day averages today. † We should have some explosive Global volumes on equity market closes, as we have the MSCI rebalance today ñ The Total trade size for developed markets is $11.2bn and 50% larger than May's. † Over in Asia, the Yen stabilized on BOJ minutes, triggering profit-taking in Japan, with the Nikkei off 60bp. †China was basically unchanged, India gave back 1% of itís surge from yesterday ñ while there is stress in Indonesia, with their market off over 2% As Dollar Bond Sales Disappoints. † Thailand stabilized despite the protests, gaining 50bp after being hit hard yesterday. † Here is the States, focus on the Builders as we have October Housing Starts in focus after the miss yesterday, and Case-Shiller data. † Some names moving include TIF +6% on earnings, FCX off 2% on GS downgrade, MU will be watched, as Einhorn is long 23mln shares ñ and we get numbers from HPQ tonight.The 10YY is unchanged, after hitting fresh week lows near 2.7% overnight ñ While the DXY is off as the Ä is picking up some upward momentum into speeches from a few ECB members. †With the DXY weaker, thatís a natural tailwind for commodities: †We have Metals like Silver and Gold higher, while Copper is in the red as China makes another move against Shadow Financing. †Natty is bid up 1% on US weather ñ and eyes are on the energy complex, as Brent remains in the red, but WTI has a bid on the weaker $ and forecasts of a drawdown in US supplies. †We have Housing Starts at†8:30; Case-Shiller at 9; Consumer Confidence and Richmond Fed at 10; a very small POMO at 11; A 5Y auction at 1, right when ECBís Asmussen speaks ñ and very active around the closing bell, with the MSCI rebalance, Short Interest data from NYSE released, and API data for the Energy complex ahead of DOE†tomorrow.
REUTERS/Stringer Leaked oil is seen on the sea after an explosion at a Sinopec Corp oil pipeline in Huangdao, Qingdao, Shandong Province November 23, 2013. Crude pipelines have been shut-off in the eastern Chinese oil hub of Qingdao pending safety checks a day after a leak triggered a huge explosion that killed 47 people, a refinery official and state media said on Saturday. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Stringer Leaked oil is seen on the sea after an explosion at a Sinopec Corp oil pipeline in Huangdao, Qingdao, Shandong Province November 23, 2013. Crude pipelines have been shut-off in the eastern Chinese oil hub of Qingdao pending safety checks a day after a leak triggered a huge explosion that killed 47 people, a refinery official and state media said on Saturday. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
Boonsri Dickinson, Business InsiderAn employee of FormspringSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - A growing group of social and mobile Web services are poised to become the next†Facebook Inc.†Just ask them. Online startups with eye-popping statistics that purport to show their popularity have captivated the attention of the media and investors. Companies boast of everything from skyrocketing Web page views to user sign-ups to shared digital photos as measures of their success. But unlike the financial numbers used to evaluate more mature companies, the so-called "vanity metrics" now in vogue are largely self-reported and often vague enough to defy definition. With valuations for high-flying startups hitting nosebleed levels, some hear echoes of the obsession with "eyeballs," or raw numbers of website visitors, that defined the dot-com boom of the late 1990s but quickly proved to be an illusory measure of value. "I wouldn't buy a pizzeria just because the phone is ringing off the hook,"†David Cowan, a partner at†Bessemer Venture Partners, said in a telephone interview. "First, I have to understand who is calling, why, from where and can we really sell them pizza. "People have to be careful about the extent to which they use these metrics as indicators of value," he said. The issue came into focus last week when Snapchat, the hot mobile photo and video messaging startup, announced that its users send 400 million "snaps" every day just as reports surfaced that it had turned down a $3 billion acquisition offer from Facebook. The $3 billion offer shocked many given that the company, which lets†smartphone†users send vanishing pictures to each other, does not have any revenue. Some also wondered what the 400 million snaps actually referred to, and how they compared to the amount of photos shared on Facebook. If a Snapchat user sends the same photo to 10 people, does Snapchat count it as 10 snaps or one snap, a widely discussed article asked last week in online publication†BuzzFeed. A Snapchat representative told Reuters by email that the 400 million snaps includes both photos and videos that users received but did not provider further clarification. The company said in a tweet last week that 88 percent of snaps are sent to one recipient. Many of the self-reported user metrics are "black boxes," said Joe Beninato, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur who has founded and sold several Internet companies. Of course, 400 million of anything is a big number and a sign that the company has achieved some level of success, he said. But he said a single metric alone might not tell the whole story and could even mask problems, such as a high user churn rate. Pinterest, a social media scrapbook service whose last round of funding valued it at $3.8 billion, is only beginning to experiment with monetization. The company does not disclose its total number of users, but recently said that the service has 1.5 million travel-related "Pins" per day. The company, which declined to comment, does not publicly provide any data about its total number of users or their activity, though it ranks among the 50 most-visited websites in the†United States, according to online measurement firm comScore. Among the most the questionable metrics that are now commonplace are a company's number of registered users, which doesn't account for duplicate and dormant accounts; a messaging service's volume of messages, which could have been sent by either a very small, or a very large, number of users; and installations of mobile apps, which includes installations by customers who did not like a service and quit using it. Even longstanding Web traffic metrics such as page views and unique visitors remain surprisingly open to interpretation, owing to divergent measurement techniques and standards. The number of "active" users, defined as people who access a Web service at least once a month, could include automated software that looks like real users, driving up website page views and disseminating paid advertising links on social networks. "Sometimes these companies don't take out the ëbots,' and if you take out the bots, then suddenly 40 percent of their traffic goes away," said†Hans Swildens, the founding partner at†Industry Ventures. For Web and mobile startup companies, proving robust growth in users and time spent with the product is critical to attracting media coverage, recruiting engineering talent and securing funding. "I've been in plenty of meetings where people are discussing what information to release to the press to get the maximum impact, something that sounds good but doesn't give away too much information to competitors,"†Eric Ries, who is the author of the book "The Lean Startup" and has worked at several online companies, said by phone. Choosing the right metric to release is a key decision within Web startups these days, said one public relations executive who advises Internet companies and asked that his name not be used. "There's a lot of pressure to talk about these type of figures," he said. "Many companies are scrambling to help people understand the scope of their business." A good metric is one that a company has confidence will grow reliably and remain the most relevant snapshot of the product's popularity going forward. But he noted that in some cases the practice has "devolved into this exercise of trying to appear big when you're not really big. It's almost this masquerade these days." Venture capitalists, who typically evaluate hundreds of startups every year, say they know how to cut through the superficial metrics to find out how a company is really doing. VCs look at the ratios of daily users to weekly users and monthly users to get a feel for how many repeat users a company has. They strip out growth that comes from unsustainable practices, such as online services that tap into a user's list of contacts to send "spam" messages, and they try to determine how "viral" a service is by measuring how many of a user's friends join. But with the recent lifting of a long-standing ban on private company investment solicitation and a proposed "crowdfunding" rule that would allow mom-and-pop†investors to bet on startup companies, consumer advocates fear less sophisticated investors could easily be misled. "It's a very selective and dressed-up version of the facts,"†Barbara Roper, the director of investor protection at the†Consumer Federation of America, an association of nonprofit groups based in Washington, referring to the user metrics that companies provide, said by phone. "There's no standard of measurement. There's no comparability." Even experienced investors can make mistakes. Viddy, a social video app, raised $30 million in funding in 2012 as investors jostled to get a piece of the company that was at one point adding more than 1 million new users a day. "Their user-growth chart didn't go to a hockey stick, it went straight up a wall," an investor in Viddy, who asked to remain anonymous because he was not authorized to discuss the situation, said in a phone interview. What many people didn't realize at the time, he said, was that Viddy's hyper-growth was mainly due to being one of the first video apps to take advantage of new distribution features on Facebook, rather than anything unique about the product itself. When Facebook suddenly tightened that distribution channel, Viddy's momentum came to a screeching halt. Formspring, a social network which at one point was reported to have "2 billion answers to questions" posted on its website, shut down in March and was relaunched as Spring.me under a new management team. Flud, a mobile news reader, was adding one user every four seconds shortly after its launch in 2010 - but closed shop in August. Bessemer's Cowan notes that some metrics really do have value, pointing to his firm's decision to invest in professional social network LinkedIn Corp six years ago. The fact that many LinkedIn users were inviting their friends to join the service, and that LinkedIn user profiles were appearing high up in search results on Google Inc's†search engine†suggested that the service was spreading in a meaningful way, he said. The company was in its early days of generating revenue in 2007 - but the real growth potential was reflected in some of its nonfinancial metrics, Cowan said. (With additional reporting by Gerry Shih; Editing by Jonathan Oatis)
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonA replica Statue of Liberty is seen in the front garden of a home in Beverly Hills, California, June 24, 2013.(Reuters) - U.S. borrowers are increasingly missing payments on home equity lines of credit they took out during the housing bubble, a trend that could deal another blow to the country's biggest banks. The loans are a problem now because an increasing number are hitting their 10-year anniversary, at which point borrowers usually must start paying down the principal on the loans as well as the interest they had been paying all along. More than $221 billion of these loans at the largest banks will hit this mark over the next four years, about 40 percent of the home equity lines of credit now outstanding. For a typical consumer, that shift can translate to their monthly payment more than tripling, a particular burden for the subprime borrowers that often took out these loans. And payments will rise further when the Federal Reserve starts to hike rates, because the loans usually carry floating interest rates. The number of borrowers missing payments around the 10-year point can double in their eleventh year, data from consumer credit agency Equifax shows. When the loans go bad, banks can lose an eye-popping 90 cents on the dollar, because a home equity line of credit is usually the second mortgage a borrower has. If the bank forecloses, most of the proceeds of the sale pay off the main mortgage, leaving little for the home equity lender. There are scenarios where everything works out fine. For example, if economic growth picks up, and home prices rise, borrowers may be able to refinance their main mortgage and their home equity lines of credit into a single new fixed-rate loan. Some borrowers would also be able to repay their loans by selling their homes into a strengthening market. But some regulators, rating agencies, and analysts are alarmed. The U.S. Office of the¬†Comptroller of the Currency, a regulator overseeing national banks, has been warning banks about the risk of home equity lines since the spring of 2012. It is pressing banks to quantify their risks and minimize them where possible. At a conference last month in Washington, DC,¬†Amy Crews Cutts, the chief economist at consumer credit agency Equifax, told mortgage bankers that an increase in tens of thousands of homeowners' monthly payments on these home equity lines is a pending "wave of disaster." Banks marketed home equity lines of credit aggressively before the housing bubble burst, and consumers were all too happy to use these loans like a cheaper version of credit card debt, paying for vacations and cars. The big banks, including Bank of America Corp,¬†Wells Fargo¬†&amp; Co, Citigroup Inc, and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co have more than $10 billion of these home equity lines of credit on their books each, and in some cases much more than that. How bad home equity lines of credit end up being for banks will hinge on the percentage of loans that default. Analysts struggle to forecast that number. In the best case scenario, losses will edge higher from current levels, and will be entirely manageable. But the worst case scenario for some banks could be bad, eating deeply into their earnings and potentially cutting into their equity levels at a time when banks are under pressure to boost capital levels. "We just don't know how close people are until they ultimately do hit delinquencies," said¬†Darrin Benhart, the deputy comptroller for credit and market risk at the Office of the¬†Comptroller of the Currency. Banks can get some idea from updated credit scores, but "it's difficult to ferret that risk out," he said. What is happening with home equity lines of credit illustrates how the mortgage bubble that formed in the years before the financial crisis is still hurting banks, even seven years after it burst. By many measures the mortgage market has yet to recover: The¬†federal government¬†still backs nine out of every ten home loans, 4.6 million foreclosures have been completed, and borrowers with excellent credit scores are still being denied loans. Banks have some options for reducing their losses. They can encourage borrowers to sign up for a workout program if they will not be able to make their payments. In some cases, they can change the terms of the lines of credit to allow borrowers to pay only interest on their loans for a longer period, or to take longer to repay principal. A Bank of America spokesman said in a statement that the bank is reaching out to customers more than a year before they have to start repaying principal on their loans, to explain options for refinancing or modifying their loans. But these measures will only help so much, said Crews Cutts. "There's no easy out on this," she said. Between the end of 2003 and the end of 2007, outstanding debt on banks' home equity lines of credit jumped by 77 percent, to $611.4 billion from $346.1 billion, according to FDIC data, and while not every loan requires borrowers to start repaying principal after ten years, most do. These loans were attractive to banks during the housing boom, in part because lenders thought they could rely on the collateral value of the home to keep rising. "These are very profitable at the beginning. People will take out these lines and make the early payments that are due," said¬†Anthony Sanders, a professor of real estate finance at¬†George Mason University¬†who used to be a mortgage bond analyst at Deutsche Bank. But after 10 years, a consumer with a $30,000 home equity line of credit and an initial interest rate of 3.25 percent would see their required payment jumping to $293.16 from $81.25, analysts from Fitch Ratings calculate. That's why the loans are starting to look problematic: For home equity lines of credit made in 2003, missed payments have already started jumping. Borrowers are delinquent on about 5.6 percent of loans made in 2003 that have hit their 10-year mark, Equifax data show, a figure that the agency estimates could rise to around 6 percent this year. That's a big jump from 2012, when delinquencies for loans from 2003 were closer to 3 percent. This scenario will be increasingly common in the coming years: in 2014, borrowers on $29 billion of these loans at the biggest banks will see their monthly payment jump, followed by $53 billion in 2015, $66 billion in 2016, and $73 billion in 2017. The Federal Reserve could start raising rates as soon as July 2015, interest-rate futures markets show, which would also lift borrowers' monthly payments. The rising payments that consumers face "is the single largest risk that impacts the home equity book in¬†Citi Holdings," Citigroup finance chief John Gerspach said on an October 16 conference call with analysts. A high percentage of home equity lines of credit went to people with bad credit to begin with ‚Äî over 16 percent of the home equity loans made in 2006, for example, went to people with credit scores below 659, seen by many banks as the dividing line between prime and subprime. In 2001, about 12 percent of home equity borrowers were subprime. Banks are still getting hit by other mortgage problems too, most notably on the legal front. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co last week agreed to a $13 billion settlement with the¬†U.S. government¬†over charges it overstated the quality of home loans it sold to investors. Banks have differing exposure, and disclose varying levels of information, making it difficult to figure which is most exposed. The majority of home equity lines of credit are held by the biggest banks, said the OCC's Benhart. At Bank of America, around $8 billion in outstanding home equity balances will reset before 2015 and another $57 billion will reset afterwards but it is unclear which years will have the highest number of resets. JPMorgan Chase said in an October regulatory filing that $9 billion will reset before 2015 and after 2017 and another $22 billion will reset in the intervening years. At¬†Wells Fargo, $4.5 billion of home equity balances will reset in 2014 and another $25.9 billion will reset between 2015 and 2017. At Citigroup, $1.3 billion in home equity lines of credit will reset in 2014 and another $14.8 billion will reset between 2015 and 2017. Bank of America said that 9 percent of its outstanding home equity lines of credit that have reset were not performing. That kind of a figure would likely be manageable for big banks. But if home equity delinquencies rise to subprime-mortgage-like levels, it could spell trouble. In terms of loan losses, "What we've seen so far is the tip of the iceberg. It's relatively low in relation to what's coming," Equifax's Crews Cuts said. (Reporting by Peter Rudegeair in New York; Editing by Daniel Wilchins, Martin Howell and Tim Dobbyn)
As the inflation from QE never arrives it actually looks like deflation might be creeping up on some of the world‚Äôs economies. ¬†And SocGen analysts think that means there could be more downside in commodities which tend to trend with inflation: ‚ÄúCommodities can be seen as a leading indicator of the threat¬†of deflation. As Fed policy is likely to change, with tapering¬†now expected in 2014, commodity prices may correct further¬†with the rise of US rates. And, this decline in commodity prices¬†also reflects fears of a strong deceleration in emerging¬†markets. Overall, ‚Äúmost of the emerging economies have¬†underlying fragilities‚Äù according to the OECD. In China,¬†although Wei Yao, our economist, finds the reform proposal¬†encouraging, she remains concerned that reform could¬†accelerate the unwinding of China‚Äôs debt problem. China‚Äôs¬†growth in this context should continue to decelerate to an estimate 6.9% in 2014. Hence, commodity prices face further¬†downside risks next year. And, already, LME and agricultural¬†index are close to three-year lows.‚Äù SocGen
AccuweatherStorm poised to threaten holiday travel as it heads east; Midwest and West thaw out LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ‚Äî A winter storm that hit parts of Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas was expected to be worse, but with temperatures creeping above freezing the outcome was less dramatic than forecasters had feared. Still, the severe weather could ramp back up Tuesday as it sweeps toward the East Coast, where it is poised to threaten plans for those traveling during a long holiday weekend. "It's just really cold. We had drizzle but no snow," said Courtney O'Neal-Walden, an owner of the Dairyette diner on U.S. 270 in Mount Ida, Ark. "You can see (ice) on the power lines but the roads are fine." She said ominous warnings of a winter storm kept most people in ‚Äî though schools remained open ‚Äî and few stopped by the diner for Monday's $5.99 special of popcorn shrimp, fries and a medium drink. "Business was horrible today," said Walden, who closed the business four hours early and pledged to try again Tuesday with a different special: two burgers, two fries and two drinks for $9.99. The storm started in the West and as of Monday was blamed for at least 11 deaths, half of them in Texas. It limped across Arkansas with a smattering of snow, sleet and freezing rain that didn't meet expectations. John Robinson, the warning coordination meteorologist at the National Weather Service in North Little Rock, said the storm arrived in Arkansas a bit later than expected Monday ‚Äî after sunrise ‚Äî and that temperatures were able to creep up a bit. "In many places that made a lot of difference," Robinson said. As the storm continues east, forecasters say heavy rains and strong winds could impact airports up and down the coast, while inland areas could see a half-foot of snow or more. "Some of those amounts could be very substantial," Robinson said. "Closer to the coast, there will be a big rain spell, I'm afraid ... from central North Carolina up into Maine: 2 to 5 inches." He said the storm is expected to generate a band of snow west of the Appalachians on Tuesday and freezing rain from North Carolina and Tennessee into central and eastern Pennsylvania. From Tuesday night into Wednesday, the snow will spread from the Great Smoky Mountains to the eastern Great Lakes. Winter storm warnings were issued for parts of the eastern half of the United States through Wednesday afternoon. Some of the country's busiest airports ‚Äî New York, Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, Boston and Charlotte, N.C. ‚Äî could see big delays. This holiday will likely see the most air travelers since 2007, according to Airlines for America, the industry's trade and lobbying group, with the busiest day being Sunday, an estimated 2.56 million passengers. Wednesday is expected to be the second-busiest with 2.42 million passengers. Ninety percent of travelers this week will drive, according to AAA, and an estimated 38.9 million people ‚Äî 1.6 percent fewer than last year ‚Äî are expected to drive 50 miles or more from their home. Jeff Smidt hopes to travel from his home in Toronto on Wednesday to visit his family near Boston. He plans to drive if he cannot fly. "My understanding is that I'm traveling at like the worst time ever," Smidt said. He tried to change his JetBlue reservation to get on an earlier flight but was told the airline wasn't waiving any change fees yet. "Worst comes to worst, it will be an eight-hour trek down Interstate 90," he said. ___ Associated Press writers Scott Mayerowitz in New York City; John Raby in Charleston, W.Va.; and Diana Heidgerd and David Warren in Dallas contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartBitcoin enthusiast Mike Caldwell poses at his office in Sandy, Utah, September 17, 2013. The past weeks have seen a surprising meeting of minds between chairman of the US Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke, the Bank of England, the Olympic-rowing and Zuckerberg-bothering Winklevoss twins, and the US Department of Homeland Security. The connection? All have decided it's time to take Bitcoin seriously. Until now, what pundits called in a rolling-eye fashion "the new peer-to-peer cryptocurrency" had been seen just as a digital form of gold, with all the associated speculation, stake-claiming and even "mining"; perfect for the digital wild west of the internet, but no use for real transactions. Bitcoins are mined by computers solving fiendishly hard mathematical problems. The "coin" doesn't exist physically: it is a virtual currency that exists only as a computer file. No one computer controls the currency. A network keeps track of all transactions made using Bitcoins but it doesn't know what they were used for ‚Äì just the ID of the computer "wallet" they move from and to. Right now the currency is tricky to use, both in terms of the technological nous required to actually acquire Bitcoins, and finding somewhere to spend them. To get them, you have to first set up a wallet, probably online at a site such as Blockchain.info, and then pay someone hard currency to get them to transfer the coins into that wallet. A Bitcoin payment address is a short string of random characters, and if used carefully, it's possible to make transactions anonymously. That's what made it the currency of choice for sites such as the Silk Road and Black Market Reloaded, which let users buy drugs anonymously over the internet. It also makes it very hard to tax transactions, despite the best efforts of countries such as Germany, which in August declared that Bitcoin was "private money" in which transactions should be taxed as normal. It doesn't have all the advantages of cash, though the fact you can't forge it is a definite plus: Bitcoin is "peer-to-peer" and every coin "spent" is authenticated with the network. Thus you can't spend the same coin in two different places. (But nor can you spend it without an internet connection.) You don't have to spend whole Bitcoins: each one can be split into 100m pieces (each known as a satoshi), and spent separately. Although most people have now vaguely heard of Bitcoin, you're unlikely to find someone outside the tech community who really understands it in detail, let alone accepts it as payment. Nobody knows who invented it; its pseudonymous creator, Satoshi Nakamoto, hasn't come forward. He or she may not even be Japanese but certainly knows a lot about cryptography, economics and computing. It was first presented in November 2008 in an academic paper shared with a cryptography mailing list. It caught the attention of that community but took years to take off as a niche transaction tool. The first Bitcoin boom and bust came in 2011, and signalled that it had caught the attention of enough people for real money to get involved ‚Äì but also posed the question of whether it could ever be more than a novelty. The algorithm for mining Bitcoins means the number in circulation will never exceed 21m and this limit will be reached in around 2140. Already 57% of all Bitcoins have been created; by 2017, 75% will have been. If you tried to create a Bitcoin in 2141, every other computer on the network would reject it as fake because it would not have been made according to the rules of currency. The number of companies taking Bitcoin payments is increasing from a small base, and a few payment processors such as Atlanta-based Bitpay are making real money from the currency. But it's difficult to get accurate numbers on conventional transactions, and it still seems that the most popular uses of Bitcoins are buying drugs in the shadier parts of the internet, as people did on the Silk Road website, and buying the currency in the hope that in a few weeks' time you will be able to sell it at a profit. This is remarkable because there's no fundamental reason why Bitcoin should have any value at all. The only reason people are willing to pay money for the currency is because other people are willing to as well. (Try not to think about it too hard.) Now, though, sensible economists are saying that Bitcoin might become part of our future economy. That's quite a shift from October last year, when the European Central Bank said that Bitcoin was "characteristic of a Ponzi [pyramid] scheme". This month, the Chicago Federal Reserve commented that the currency was "a remarkable conceptual and technical achievement, which may well be used by existing financial institutions (which could issue their own bitcoins) or even by governments themselves". It might not sound thrilling. But for a central banker, that's like yelling "BITCOIIINNNN!" from the rooftops. And Bernanke, in a carefully dull letter to the US Senate committee on Homeland Security, said that when it came to virtual currencies (read: Bitcoin), the US Federal Reserve had "ongoing initiatives" to "identify additional areas of ‚Ä¶ concern that require heightened attention by the banking organisations we supervise". In other words, Bernanke is ready to make Bitcoin part of US currency regulation ‚Äì the key step towards legitimacy. Most reporting about Bitcoin until now has been of its extraordinary price ramp ‚Äì from a low of $1 in 2011 to more than $900 earlier this month. That massive increase has sparked a classic speculative rush, with more and more people hoping to get a piece of the pie by buying and then selling Bitcoins. Others are investing thousands of pounds in custom "mining rigs", computers specially built to solve the mathematical problems necessary to confirm a Bitcoin transaction. But bubbles can burst: in 2011 it went from $33 to $1. The day after hitting that $900 high, Bitcoin's value halved on MtGox, the biggest exchange. Then it rose again. Speculative bubbles happen everywhere, though, from stock markets to Beanie Babies. All that's needed is enough people who think that they are the smart money, and that everyone else is sufficiently stupid to buy from them. But the Bitcoin bubbles tell us as much about the usefulness of the currency itself as the tulip mania of 17th century Holland did about flower-arranging. History does provide some lessons. While the Dutch were selling single tulip bulbs for 10 times a craftsman's annual income, the British were panicking about their own economic crisis. The silver coinage that had been the basis of the national economy for centuries was rapidly becoming unfit for purpose: it was constrained in supply and too easy to forge. The economy was taking on the features of a modern capitalist state, and the currency simply couldn't catch up. Describing the problem Britain faced then, David Birch, a consultant specialising in electronic transactions, says: "We had a problem in matching the nature of the economy to the nature of the money we used." Birch has been talking about electronic money for over two decades and is convinced that we find ourselves on the edge of the same shift that occurred 400 years ago. The cause of that shift is the internet, because even though you might want to, you can't use cash ‚Äì untraceable, no-fee-charged cash ‚Äì online. Existing payment systems such as PayPal and credit cards demand a cut. So for individuals looking for a digital equivalent of cash ‚Äì no middleman, quick, easy ‚Äì Bitcoin looks pretty good. In 1613, as people looked for a replacement for silver, Birch says, "we might have been saying 'the idea of tulip bulbs as an asset class looks pretty good, but this central bank nonsense will never catch on.' We knew we needed a change, but we couldn't tell which made sense." Back then, the currency crisis was solved with the introduction first of Isaac Newton's Royal Mint ("official" silver and gold) and later with the creation of the Bank of England ("official" paper money that could in theory be swapped for official silver or gold). And now? Bitcoin offers unprecedented flexibility compared with what has gone before. "Some people in the mid-90s asked: 'Why do we need the web when we have AOL and CompuServe?'" says Mike Hearn, who works on the programs that underpin Bitcoin. "And so now people ask the same of Bitcoin. The web came to dominate because it was flexible and open, so anyone could take part, innovate and build interesting applications like YouTube, Facebook or Wikipedia, none of which would have ever happened on the AOL platform. I think the same will be true of Bitcoin." For a small (but vocal) group in the US, Bitcoin represents the next best alternative to the gold standard, the 19th-century conception that money ought to be backed by precious metals rather than government printing presses and promises. This love of "hard money" is baked into Bitcoin itself, and is the reason why the owners who set computers to do the maths required to make the currency work are known as "miners", and is why the total supply of Bitcoin is capped. And for Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, the twins who sued Mark Zuckerberg (claiming he stole their idea for Facebook; the case was settled out of court), it's a handy vehicle for speculation. The two of them are setting up the "Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust", letting conventional investors gamble on the price of the currency. Some of the hurdles left between Bitcoin and widespread adoption can be fixed. But until and unless Bitcoin develops a fully fledged banking system, some things that we take for granted with conventional money won't work. Others are intrinsic to the currency. At some point in the early 22nd century, the last Bitcoin will be generated. Long before that, the creation of new coins will have dropped to near-zero. And through the next 100 or so years, it will follow an economic path laid out by "Nakomoto" in 2009 ‚Äì a path that rejects the consensus view of modern economics that management by a central bank is beneficial. For some, that means Bitcoin can never achieve ubiquity. "Economies perform better when they have managed monetary policies," the Bank of England's chief cashier, Chris Salmon, said at an event to discuss Bitcoin last week. "As a result, it will never be more than an alternative [to state-backed money]." To macroeconomists, Bitcoin isn't scary because it enables crime, or eases tax dodging. It's scary because a world where it's used for all transactions is one where the ability of a central bank to guide the economy is destroyed, by design. For Bitcoin developer Hearn, that's not a concern. "Bitcoin's monetary policy would only be relevant if it were to be adopted by an entire economy, which isn't going to happen any time soon." Already, alternatives based on Bitcoin have sprung up: for instance, Litecoin speeds up transaction processing and Freicoin introduces measures to stop people hoarding their money, but both are essentially the same technology, "forked" from the original. There's even nothing to stop a nation state declaring its own version of Bitcoin as legal tender. So even if the currency of the future looks like Bitcoin, it might end up being a distant successor of the pioneer. "Is the technology of Bitcoin a window into the future?" asks Birch. "Yes. Is Bitcoin itself? No." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
As pointed out by SocGen's Kit Juckes this morning, oil prices are back up to almost where they were before the Iran deal. The deal over the weekend produced an initial drop in the price of crude, but it didn't last long, as in terms of the oil market it's really not a gamechanger in any way. From FinViz: FinViz
Maureen lunn/Flickr,CCIt's a special day. We're getting tons of good data on the housing market as a result of numbers being delayed due to the government shutdown. We're also getting some consumer and manufacturing data. From Calculated Risk, here's the full roster of economic data points we'll get today. ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM ET, the¬†Housing Permits for September and October. Housing starts have been delayed until December 18th.‚Ä¢ At 9:00 AM, the¬†FHFA House Price Index for September 2013. This was original a GSE only repeat sales, however there is also an expanded index. The consensus is for a 0.4% increase.‚Ä¢ Also at 9:00 AM, the¬†S&amp;P/Case-Shiller House Price Index for September. Although this is the September report, it is really a 3 month average of July, August and September. The consensus is for a 13.1% year-over-year increase in the Composite 20 index (NSA) for August.‚Ä¢ At 10:00 AM, the¬†Conference Board's consumer confidence index for November. The consensus is for the index to increase to 72.9 from 71.2.‚Ä¢ Also at 10:00 AM, the¬†Richmond Fed Survey of Manufacturing Activity for November. The consensus is a reading of 4, up from 1 in October (above zero is expansion).
Jennifer Polland /Business InsiderIt is a very quiet day in world markets, which really are doing nothing right now. US futures are flat. European stocks are doing nothing. The Shanghai Composite went nowhere. Today we gets tons of housing data, as well as Consumer Confidence.
