reddit/MelGibsonDerpThis picture appears to show 8-year-old Martin Richard (circled in blue) next to his father, sister (green jacket), and older brother (leaning on the railing to the left). A photo posted on reddit†shows Boston Marathon Bombing "Suspect 2" walking behind 8-year-old victim Martin Richard and his family, with what appears to be Suspect 2's backpack on the ground between them. Another version of the photo focusing on what looks like Suspect 2 and his bag, but blurring out the crowd, was†previously aired by Fox 25 and other news outlets. A long thread of analysis on Reddit suggests that†Martin's family are shown at the site of the second blast. (Martin's 7-year-old sister lost a leg in the blast while his mother†Denise suffered a serious brain injury.) Google search A†user†on reddit notes that†the picture shows the spot of the second bombing because the background shows the sign for the Atlantic Fish restaurant, which is†located†where police†place†the second blast. Earlier the FBI†released images of two suspects†and asked for the public's help identifying them.†Reddit then†identified†the hat of Suspect 1 and potentially†found a hi-res picture†of Suspect 2. The above photo, a snapshot of a moments before two pressure cooker bombs killed three people and wounded more than 180 on Monday, is heartbreaking.† Here's a picture of Martin from earlier this month: Twitter
Just before 3 p.m. on April 15, Bauman was waiting among the crowd for his girlfriend to cross the finish line at the Boston Marathon. A man wearing a cap, sunglasses and a black jacket over a hooded sweatshirt looked at Jeff, 27, and dropped a bag at his feet, his brother, Chris Bauman, said in an interview. Two and a half minutes later, the bag exploded, tearing Jeff‚Äôs legs apart. A picture of him in a wheelchair, bloodied and ashen, was broadcast around the world as he was rushed to Boston Medical Center. He lost both legs below the knee. ‚ÄúHe woke up under so much drugs, asked for a paper and pen and wrote, ‚Äòbag, saw the guy, looked right at me,‚Äô‚Äù Chris Bauman said yesterday in an interview. Those words may have helped crack the mystery of who perpetrated one of the highest-profile acts of terror in the U.S. since the 2001 assault on New York City and the Washington area, one that killed three people and wounded scores. The Boston area was on lockdown this morning after law enforcement officials killed one suspect in the bombing and were hunting another, following a night of violent clashes between the two men and authorities that killed a Massachusetts Institute of Technology campus police officer. The individual identified as the second suspect in the attack is his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who was 26, according to the official. He was killed this morning by law enforcement. Jeff Bauman‚Äôs face-to-face confrontation with one of them may have yielded key clues in the manhunt, which intensified yesterday after the Federal Bureau of Investigation released video images of two men. While still in intensive care, Bauman gave the FBI a description of the man he saw, his brother said. Bauman‚Äôs information helped investigators narrow down whom to look for in hours of video of the attack, he said. ‚ÄúI‚Äôve had many times alone with him, and yes, he told me every single detail,‚Äù Chris Bauman said. Paul Bresson, an FBI spokesman in Washington, declined to comment on specific tips in the investigation. Two FBI agents interviewed at the Boston office declined to confirm or deny the account. Jeff Bauman wouldn‚Äôt be the last to look into the eyes of one of the suspects. The hunt for the brothers touched off chaos and violence overnight that included a convenience store robbery and carjacking that escalated into the fatal shooting of the MIT officer. When police confronted the suspects, a gun battle ensued that resulted in the shooting of a transit police officer, who is in serious condition, according to David Procopio, a Massachusetts State Police spokesman. She suffered a baseball-sized shrapnel wound. Shortly after, Lawler called her mother‚Äôs cell phone and left a message in which she cried ‚ÄúMom! Mom!‚Äù Medics could be heard telling her, ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre going to be all right,‚Äù her father said. ‚ÄúShe feels guilty about a lot of this -- that she wasn‚Äôt with her friends,‚Äù Arthur Lawler said. It would take hours before the Bauman family knew what had happened to Jeff. They learned about it the way much of the world did: the grisly image on television of their son being wheeled from the scene, his lower legs destroyed. Erika Schneider, Bauman‚Äôs sister, saw it first. ‚ÄúShe called my mom, freaking out,‚Äù Chris said. Chris was working at a McDonald‚Äôs near their home in Concord, New Hampshire, when his mother called him. ‚ÄúChris, you have to sprint home,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúSomething‚Äôs happened.‚Äù
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonThe U.S. economy and the stock market are not the same thing. The stock market is currently sitting near all-time highs. Meanwhile, the U.S. economy remains anemic with the unemployment rate painfully high. Generally speaking, the stock market represents large corporations who can borrow cheaply from the bond markets and take advantage of low overseas tax rates. Yet small business can do neither of those things. They are also America's most important job creators. The lead economists of the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), which produces the widely-followed small business optimism report, recently gave a presentation at the Richmond Fed's Credit Market Symposium titled "One Country, Two Economies." In it, they lay out the state of small business, which is much weaker than what is being seen in the stock market.
Reddit This image from marathon runner David Green appears to show the FBI's Suspect 2 from the Boston bombings. Green tells NYT's The Lede that the FBI has contacted him and requested a copy of the image. Agents told him his picture was the best one they had. "I donít think thereís any doubt," he says regarding whether the image shows Suspect 2. The image went viral†after being†posted on Reddit. The FBI released low-res images and video from security cameras of two suspects to the public, asking for help in identification. Reddit, which has been studying every angle of this case from the beginning, responded quickly.† Suspect 2 in the FBI release looks a lot like the man in a backwards white baseball cap and grey hoodie in the photo posted on Reddit. Redditors have observed that the man in the hi-res photo appears not to be carrying a backpack (thought to contain a pressure cooker bomb), suggesting that he may have put it down at the scene of the crime. Here are some of pictures released by the FBI of Suspect 2: FBIThe FBI's Suspect 2. FBI FBI FBI Here's a copy of the full picture. You can look at a†larger version here. Imgur
screenshot/Google Images This week, 34 people were indicted after two related gambling rings were uncovered that catered to A-list clientele and Russian oligarchs. One of them was Hillel "Helly" Nahmad, a notorious Manhattan art dealer who runs an eponymous New York Gallery in the Carlyle Hotel on the Upper East Side. He was arrested in Los Angeles Tuesday, according to the Wall Street Journal. According to the FBI's indictment, Nahmad had allegedly been helping to run and fund a gambling ring that catered to celebrities, Wall Streeters, and professional athletes.¬†He was accused of making two wire transfers totaling $1.35 million from his father's bank account in Switzerland to help keep the scheme afloat, according to Forbes.¬† So who is Hillel "Helly" Nahmad? REUTERS/Carlo AllegriNahmad's gallery at the Carlyle Hotel The 34-year-old was born into art dealing royalty. By the time of his birth in the late '70s, Nahmad's father David and uncle Giseppe "Joe" Nahmad had made a name for themselves by buying works of art in Paris for cheap due to a declining art market, and making profits of 50% to 100% by re-selling them in Milan, according to Forbes. Joe lived lavishly with expensive cars, apartments all around the world, and famous companions like Rita Hayworth, and his brother David is today worth an estimated $1.75 billion by Forbes. The entire family's worth is thought to be more than $3 billion. Helly Nahmad attended the prestigious Dalton School in Manhattan in the mid '90s. In 1997, he dropped out of a Christie's art course, and that appears to have been his last brush with higher education. The art dealing prodigy is known outside of the art world as a frequent partier who spends upwards of $5,000 to $10,000 on bottle service at exclusive clubs, according to Page Six. His circle of friends includes A-list¬†celebrities like Giselle Bundchen, Leonardo DiCaprio, and Orlando Bloom. He even dated Brazilian model Ana Beatriz Barros, though the couple has since broken up. Nahmad is a known gambler and huge sports fan. One New York Post article even described him as betting on games while sitting next to Spike Lee on the floor of Madison Square Garden. Outside the art world, Nahmad has a thing for real estate. Not only does he own a $9 million penthouse at Bellini Bal Harbor in Miami, but he has been amassing all the apartments on the 51st floor of the Trump Tower for the last decade. This year, he finally completed his collection and now owns the entire floor, according to The New York Observer. WikipediaAna Beatriz Barros, Nahmad's ex-girlfriend This is not his first brush with the law. In 2011, the grandson of a Jewish art dealer sued Nahmad, asking him to return a $25¬†million¬†Modigliani painting that was allegedly stolen and sold by the Nazis during WWII, according to The Daily Mail. His recent trouble with the FBI this week only adds to the family's controversial name in the art world. In a Forbes feature on the family from 2007, multiple sources in the art world claimed that the Nahmads did not stay true to their word on deals and were hard to work with due to "screaming fights in the gallery." But given the family's wealth and sway in the art world, we don't expect Nahmad to fade from the spotlight anytime soon.
Jim Chanos, famed short-seller and long-time China bear, gave a bearish presentation on China at Mish Shedlock's Wine Country Conference earlier this month. One slide from Chanos' presentation was particularly graphic in how it explained what China was doing to generate growth.¬† See below: Jim Chanos On a separate note, you should make a donation to the Les Turner ALS Foundation. Read about it here.
Whoops... Reuters has accidentally posted an obituary of hedge fund billionaire George Soros. The remarkable thing is how harsh it is, basically calling the fund manager a hypocrite, and talking about all of the crises he supposedly caused by making currency bets. In the opening line, Soros, 82, is referred to as "predatory." †He's also called "an enigma, wrapped in intellect, contradiction and money" in the piece. Other critiques include the fact that he failed to buy the Washington Nationals at one point. Moments after the story was set live, Reuters Tweeted that it published the obit in error. The article has been taken down. Here's a screenshot of the entire piece (click to enlarge it):† Reuters
From the FBI: FBI FBI From the posters: The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is seeking information about the individual shown in the above surveillance photos which were taken near the bombing sites at the Boston Marathon on April 15, 2013. This individual may be able to provide additional information related to the bombings, which resulted in the deaths of three victims and the injuries of more than 170 people. The photo below with unknown suspect #1 and #2 was taken as the individuals were walking east at the intersection of Boylston and Gloucester Streets within proximity of the finish line. If you have any information about the identities of the individuals depicted above, please call 1-800-CALL-FBI or submit information at¬†https://bostonmarathontips.fbi.gov/.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. There Are 4 Key Triggers For A Stock Market Correction (Barron's) Despite the rally in stocks John Praveen, chief investment strategist at Prudential International Investments Advisers, thinks stocks are due for a "healthy" correction. There are four triggers for such a correction. 1. A slowdown in Q2 U.S. GDP growth, after a strong first quarter. A slowdown in China, and the ongoing eurozone recession. 2. Uncertainty in Europe surrounding the Italian election, and Cyprus. 3. Earnings disappointment in Q1. 4. Uncertainty about when the Fed will wind down QE. Brokers Often Lie To Retail Investors About Muni Bonds (FA Mag) At an SEC forum, Ric Edelman, CEO of Edelman Financial Services LLC, said brokers often lie to retail investors about municipal bonds. The key thing they keep from retail investors is 1. Retail investors "can negotiate for yield and spreads on muni bonds." 2. Competitors may offer a better price. 3. "Sometimes brokers tell a retail investor that the value of the bond is guaranteed, leading the consumer to think he or she can sell the bond at any time for the original purchase price."  People Shouldn't Take Financial Advisor Credentials At Face Value (Consumer Financial Protection Bureau) The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is out with a new report that warns people to be cautious while trusting advisors with financial decisions. This they say is because many consumers "don‚Äôt understand basic differences between brokers, investment advisers, insurance agents, and financial planners‚Äîlet alone the 50 plus senior designations that many of those financial advisers add to their titles." Here are some senior designations and the coursework required for them: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Advisor Settles Charges That He Defrauded CalPERS (Thomson Reuters News &amp; Insight) Mesh Tandon, head of Simran Capital Management, has settled charges brought against him by the SEC. The regulator alleged that Tandon defrauded the California Public Employers' Retirement System (CalPERS). Tandon will pay "$121,698 in penalties, interest and disgorgement of ill-gotten gains," according to Thomson Reuters News &amp; Insight. The agreement also sees Tandon barred from the securities industry. The S&amp;P Falls Beneath A Horizontal Line And A Diagonal Line (Business Insider) Technical analysts are worried because the S&amp;P 500 just fell below two important price levels. The S&amp;P 500 fell below the 50-day moving average, which is at 1543, and below its resistance level of 1530. Miller Tabak Chief Technical Market Analyst Jonathan Krinsky said, "If 1539 does prove to be support yet again, we could be in the process of forming the neckline of a head and shoulders top. That would suggest a bounce somewhere back to the 1560-1570 area. We view that as the least likely scenario given the breakdown in many marquee stocks, but as always want to keep an open mind." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
In the last week or so every Wall Street bank has reported its earnings, so now it's time for the takeaways. As usual the headlines of the week didn't tell the whole story. A quick glance looks like this: JP Morgan beat estimates with a 33% jump in profits, Morgan Stanley's profits dipped but the bank still beat expectations, Goldman Sachs is taking champagne showers, Bank of America is eeking out some kind of improvement, and Citi is finally coming into its own after shedding a load of toxic assets. Now for the news you can read between the lines. Sales and trading is on life support, especially if you trade fixed income, currencies or commodities. The traders at Goldman Sachs did better than everyone else, but as CNBC's John Carney pointed out, they were still down 7% for the quarter. Bank of America's S&amp;T revenue fell 20% (run by Tom Montag, who still gets paid more than BofA CEO Brian Moynihan) and Morgan Stanley got killed, with its revenue falling 42%. On the other hand, Wealth Management, once one of the most boring sectors on The Street, is carrying banks. This is especially true at Morgan Stanley (where the unit is up 48% from this time last year) and Bank of America, where assets under management grew $67.7 billion year-over-year to $745.3 billion. Another business where Wall Street is making some cash is in debt underwriting. Thanks to our current low yield environment, companies that were unable to issue bonds before can do so now. The demand to buy these bonds is there from clients searching for yield any way they can get it. Wall Street is here to help. Goldman has jumped in this role head first, with debt and equity underwriting experiencing a 69% and 53% jump in revenue year over year respectively. Morgan Stanley ranks second in terms of global equity underwriting according to Bloomberg, and Bank of America making headway in this sector as well. That said: Cost cutting is still in. Think about this way: Despite the fact that Morgan Stanley cut its staff by 7% and is selling off assets, excluding some one-time accounting charges the firm's profit declined from $1.4 billion in Q1 2012 to $1.2 billion in Q1 2013. Not only that but lawsuits are still a killer. Last October, bank analyst Meredith Whitney said they would be an "endless beat down" for Wall Street and it looks like she was right. Take Citi's toxic asset unit, the Special Asset Pool, for example. The unit had operating expenses of $572 million last quarter, adding 1% to the bank's total expenses. To put that in perspective, the unit's expenses for 2011 and 2012 combined were $619 million, according to Bloomberg.  Put together all that means that no one should be surprised if there are more layoffs. Wall Street's earnings have an important message for Main Street as well ó People are still hurting and the housing market has some ways to go, whether its recovering or not (that's a whole different argument). Bank of America reported that 90% of the mortgages on its balance sheet are being refinanced/legacies, and only 10% are new. Charles Peabody, an analyst with Portales Partners, put it even more bluntly after JP Morgan announced its dismal earnings on the consumer side. From Bloomberg: ìThe consumer and community bank is 50 percent of JPMorgan and itís not growing,î Peabody said. ìMortgage is shrinking, cards are flat and the branch system is just growing a little bit.î There you have it, that's the state of Wall Street right now. Has it recovered? A little bit.
Developing... 
At a 5pm press conference, the FBI released photos of two people they hope to question in relation to Monday's Boston Marathon bombing. The two people were clearly referred to as suspects. If you have information about these people you should contact the FBI, either online or at 1-800-CALL-FBI Here's are images of the two people sought by the FBI: FBI  The suspect with the black cap is being called "Suspect 1" FBI FBI FBI  The suspect with the white cap is being called "Suspect 2" FBI FBI FBI  ¬†Both suspects can be seen in this official surveillance video: 
Chipotle is rolling out Sofritas, or spicy tofu, as one of the proteins it offers.¬† The company debuted the item in San Francisco in February, and has since expanded the test market to Northern California.¬† Sofritas is "the spice blend used to season the shredded tofu, and the dishes are braised with chipotle chilies, roasted poblano peppers, and a blend of aromatic spices," SFWeekly reports. In Spanish and Latin American cultures, a sofrito is a sauce created with a saute of peppers, tomatoes, onion and garlic. The current expansion in California points to a much wider roll-out soon, said Rick Munarriz at The Motley Fool.¬† The tofu comes at a good time for Chipotle, as investors are worried that the chain's rapid expansion has come to an end. Shares have declined 22 percent in the past year. "It can use a kick, and tofu may be the answer at a company that prides itself on its very limited menu," Munarriz said.¬† Chipotle's current proteins include carnitas (shredded pork), chicken, steak, and barbacoa (shredded beef).¬† Until now, vegetarians could only order black beans on their burritos. The company's pinto beans contain pork.¬† But Chipotle should test outside of Northern California before rolling out tofu nationwide.¬† The Bay Area is known for its large vegetarian population, so the item is likely to succeed there. Selling tofu to people in other regions might be more difficult.¬†
FBIThe man in the black cap is "Suspect 1" and the man in the white cap is "Suspect 2" The FBI has released photos of two suspects in the Boston Marathon bombings case. FBI¬†Special Agent¬†Richard DesLauriers told reporters that the agency developed two suspects yesterday. They are pictured above. The FBI is asking the public to help identifying the suspects. Reddit has already identified¬†the hat of Suspect 1. DesLauriers¬†encouraged that any potential helpful information be entered at bostonmarathontips.fbi.gov or call 1-800-CALL-FBI He stressed that these men may be armed and dangerous. Here's the surveillance video released by the FBI:  This is the first big break in the case. On Thursday morning The New York Post posted a picture of¬†17-year-old¬†Salah Barhoun and a friend. Yesterday the high school student went to the police to clear his name¬†after the photo first appeared online. Wednesday was a complete mess in regards to the coverage of the latest revelations in the case as numerous outlets, led by John King of CNN, reported that a suspect was in police custody. The¬†bombings¬†killed three and wounded more than 180. You can check out BI's coverage of the tragedy here. Here are more images of the suspects: FBI FBI  Here are the Wanted posters: FBI FBI
REUTERS / Mike Stone A massive explosion at the West Fertilizer Co. rocked the small town of West, Texas, late Wednesday night, leaving as many as 40 people dead¬†‚Äî including up to 10 emergency personnel¬†‚Äî and more than 170 people injured, The Wall Street Journal reports.  Search and rescue is ongoing. At a press conference officials called the situation "volatile," because the West Fertilizer Co. had 54,000 pounds of¬†anhydrous ammonia¬†on hand.¬†¬† "It was like a nuclear bomb went off,"¬†West Mayor Tommy Muska told¬†CNN.¬†The blast was so massive that it registered as a 2.1 magnitude earthquake,¬†according to the USGS. Sgt. Patrick Swanton of the Waco Police Department said the first call of a fire came in at 7:29 p.m. local time. Firefighters and other emergency workers responded to the call and began evacuating the area. Minutes later, the devastating explosion occurred. The first call of the explosion came in at 7:53 p.m. local time, Swanton said. More than 100 victims have been treated at Hillcrest Hospital in Waco, Texas, which is just north of West. And at least 60 more have been treated at Providence Hospital. The town of¬†about 2,800 people roughly 80 miles south of Dallas. BI's West, Texas plant explosion coverage: There were a "tremendous amount of injuries and we do have confirmed fatalities," said D.L. Wilson, a spokesman for the Texas Department of Safety at a conference late Wednesday night, He was not able to provide specific numbers. Wilson said the aftermath resembled a war zone. "I searched some houses earlier tonight. Massive. Just like Iraq. Just like the Murrah building in Oklahoma City," Wilson said. AP via KWTX-TVAmong the damaged buildings was a housing complex with a completely collapsed roof, a middle school, and a nursing home, according to the Associated Press. Wilson said that some 133 patients were evacuated from the nursing home, and their injuries were still being evaluated. The plant was across the street from a local middle school. President Barack Obama released a statement Thursday morning, pledging "close contact" among federal, state, and local officials. Here's the statement: "Today our prayers go out to the people of West, Texas in the aftermath of last night‚Äôs deadly explosion at a fertilizer plant. A tight-knit community has been shaken, and good, hard-working people have lost their lives. I want to thank the first responders who worked tirelessly through the night to contain the situation and treat the wounded.¬†  "My Administration, through FEMA and other agencies, is in close contact with our state and local partners on the ground to make sure there are no unmet needs as search and rescue and response operations continue. West is a town that many Texans hold near and dear to their hearts, and as residents continue to respond to this tragedy, they will have the support of the American people." Authorities have set up a hotline to check on potentially injured residents. The number is¬†254-202-1100. Here is one amateur video of the explosion. Around 30 seconds in, an explosion occurs:¬† 
crazytales562/FlickrJCPenney Chief Operating Officer Michael Kramer and Chief Talent Officer Daniel Walker have left the company, Bloomberg News reported.† Kramer and Walker's exits mean that five key executives have left JCPenney this month alone.† CEO Ron Johnson†left last week†after a disastrous 16 months on the job.† Dana Mattioli at†The Wall Street Journal spoke with Kramer in February†about the company's culture since it began laying off thousands of workers. "I hated the†JCPenney†culture," Kramer told the†WSJ. "It was pathetic." Kramer was recruited by†Johnson, and had previously worked with him at Apple. High-profile executive Nick Wooster also left†and VP Of Marketing Sissie Twiggs also left this month.
Remember the Great Rotation? Neither does the bond market. At the beginning of the year, all of the chatter was about a structural "rotation" of investor moneys out of U.S. Treasuries and into the stock market. At the time, we were a few months into a rally across the risk asset spectrum, the economic data were generally coming in above expectations, and Treasury yields were rising as investors sold off their holdings of government bonds. The bond market was on edge. The "Great Rotation" story has fizzled out pretty quickly, though ‚Äì as the chart below of the yield on the long bond shows ‚Äì and sentiment has shifted decidedly in the other direction. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg Russ Certo, who heads up rates sales and trading at Brean Capital, says he was surprised by the "steadfast bullishness" toward bonds as an asset class that came across in conversations with several clients yesterday. "It's very rare in my career of over 20 years that a nucleus of people are all on the same side, bullish," says Certo. "They're always bearish ‚Äì sometimes there is a consensus view that is bearish, but I rarely find a consensus view that is bullish, particularly on the high end of the range." After all, here we are at the tail-end of a decades-long rally in the bond market. It's easy to look at a long-term chart and conclude that there isn't much value in the space. This is always a big discussion every time yields lurch lower. Certo points out that while U.S. government bonds may be richly valued relative to history, though, they certainly aren't richly valued relative to many of their peers around the globe. In the United States, for example, 30-year government bonds yield 2.87%. By contrast, the German 30-year yields 2.17%, the Japanese 30-year yields 1.61%, and the Canadian 30-year yields 2.34%. Clients Certo spoke with gave a few other key reasons for piling back into Treasuries. The first bullish argument for the bonds is the U.S. economic data. Treasuries are one of the world's biggest "safe haven" investments, so when economic growth slows, they tend to catch a bid. "[The] general belief is¬†that growth and data will 'roll over'," says Certo. "[The clients]¬†just think, first and foremost, that 2013 will be characterized by slow growth, all the way through." The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index just went negative this week. If it continues to trend downward, as it usually does for a little while after breaking below zero, that means economic data will start coming in further and further below consensus expectations. In addition to the fundamentals, there are some technical factors to consider. Certo says there was a perception among his clients that investors were "broadly underweight" bonds. And with the Federal Reserve buying up so much of the market, it's made it harder for investors to get back on the right side of the trade. "There are some other people apparently trying to taper back some shorts, but there's just not enough paper for them to grab onto to move the needle," says Certo. One reason for owning bonds that emerged from Certo's discussion was particularly curious, and it follows from the argument that the economic data is starting to roll over and growth is slowing. Certo says rising debt-to-GDP ratios were cited as a reason to be invested in Treasuries, given "off-balance sheet debt pushing the U.S. above [the 90%] threshold and unprecedented world debt-to-GDP off the charts." That 90% figure, of course, comes from a controversial study by Harvard economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff finding that high levels of debt relative to GDP slow economic growth. The Reinhart/Rogoff study took a significant reputational hit this week when researchers discovered that the influential study made an Excel error in calculating the figures that led to its ultimate conclusion. Nonetheless, some clients aren't convinced.
Patrick H~ via flickr Creative CommonsIBM's Q1 2013 earnings release is out. Earnings came in slightly below estimates at $3.00 per share (versus the $3.05 expected). Revenues were $23.41 billion, versus estimates for $24.62 billion. The numbers were dragged down by the systems and technology unit, which reported a 17% decline in revenues, and the services unit, which saw revenues fall 4%. Business analytics revenues, on the other hand, were up 7% during the quarter. The company re-affirmed its previous forecast for full-year earnings. The stock is trading lower in the after-hours session. Click here for the full release &gt;
The American Federation of Teachers, a labor union that represents teachers, sent out a "watch list" for hedge funds who might have an opposing stance on their defined benefit plans (DB plans).† The report has a list of hedge funds and hedge fund managers AFT believes are attacking pension plans. "This is about transparency- a right to know," AFT President Randi Weingarten said about the report. "Americaís workers and pension trustees deserve to know if the asset managers they are investing their hard-earned retirement savings with are also aligned with organizations advocating for the elimination of those same pension plans. Students First, the Show-Me Institute and the Manhattan Project are actively opposed to defined benefit pension plans. With transparency and disclosure, trustees can make informed decisions about the risks their plans face." Earlier today, hedge funder Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC, cancelled a conference appearance after reports that union leaders were going to confront him over his involvement with Students First. He's not the only one they're watching. Here's the watch list: (They misspelled Icahn) via AFT You can see more details here: via AFT via AFT
Flickr / iLikeSpoonsThe stock market sell-off is starting to sting. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,537, -81.4 pts, -0.5%S&amp;P 500: 1,541, -10.4 pts, -0.6%NASDAQ: 3,166, -38.3 pts, -1.2% And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Earnings came in at $2.45, and revenue at $726.8 million. Analysts were expecting $724.77 million in revenue and EPS of $2.14 a share, according to Yahoo. The stock is up more than 7percent. You may recall bond investing god¬†Jeff Gundlach just told everyone to short the stock.¬† "Gourmet burrito is an oxymoron," he said. March 2012 earnings came in at $1.97. Shares were down about -2.3% during open trading hours today. Click here for updates &gt;
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderEnough is enough. I think stock-picking is an idiotic strategy for individual investors, and I almost never do it. The smart investment strategy for individuals is to buy a balanced portfolio of low-cost, tax-efficient index funds and rebalance them every year or so (or whenever the balance gets out of whack).¬†Just about every investor is best off in index funds, and that's where I keep most of my portfolio. (Why is stock-picking an idiotic strategy?¬†Because the stock market is pretty efficient, and individuals are at a massive disadvantage to professional investors. And even most professional investors can't pick stocks well enough to offset the costs of their efforts.) But, sometimes, I just can't take it anymore, and I have to put my money where my mouth is. And I just did that with Apple. I see two possible scenarios for this investment. Either Apple really is becoming Nokia, in which case the stock will go to $250 and stay there until they break up the company and distribute the cash. (And I'll lose half my bet). Or...  Wall Street has become way too pessimistic about a company that still makes great products and still has a strong strategic position in fast-growing markets that will do okay over the next couple of years... and the stock will go up. In the meantime, I'll collect a dividend that is a lot bigger than my index fund is paying me. Yesterday, Jay Yarow and I wrote a long article spelling out the "bull case for Apple." If you're curious about the logic, you can read more there. And, if you're an Apple hater, you can cheer wildly as the stock keeps dropping and I lose my shirt. (My cost basis is $391, in case you're curious.) SEE ALSO: The Bull Case For Apple
Giuseppe Bognanni via FlickrAn academic, who was fired from being the British government's drug tsar for saying ecstasy was as safe as horseback riding, recently said cocaine use is what caused the financial crisis. Professor David Nutt, who teaches neuropsychopharmacology, told the Sunday Times that coke made bankers overconfident leading them to take enormous risks, the Telegraph reported. We're not sure we buy his argument, but we have dug up some of the crazy tales¬†of Wall Streeters and cocaine.¬†
Stocks are falling this afternoon. The S&amp;P 500 just broke through two key price levels to the downside, and technical analysts are expressing some concern. The first level the index has fallen through today is the 50-day moving average, which currently sits at 1543. That means the S&amp;P 500 is now trading below the average price it's traded at over the last 50 days, indicating a recent wave selling and bearish sentiment. The second level is a "resistance level" around 1539. (The S&amp;P 500 briefly dipped below this level, but is now trading right at 1540.) Miller Tabak Chief Technical Market Analyst Jonathan Krinsky explains the importance of this level in an email to clients this afternoon: Nevertheless, the SPX is breaking is re-testing the key 1539 support level for the 3rd¬†time in the last month. While we have yet to CLOSE below 1539, the fact that there has been only weak bounce attempts from the level has to be concerning to the bull case. Below 1539 and there could be a quick resolution down to 1525, which was resistance in late February. If 1539 does prove to be support yet again, we could be in the process of forming the neckline of a head and shoulders top. That would suggest a bounce somewhere back to the 1560-1570 area. We view that as the least likely scenario given the breakdown in many marquee stocks, but as always want to keep an open mind. The chart below shows the damage: Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
YouTube Office SpaceI limped out of the meeting and said, ‚Äúexcuse me‚Äù, and took the elevator down 67 stories, went to Grand Central, limped home, and never went back to work at that job. I never returned the constant phone calls and emails over the next month. ‚ÄúJames, where did you go?‚Äù For all I know my name is still on my office door and my name is still on their website. I‚Äôve never checked. I just didn‚Äôt feel like going back or talking to them ever again. A few days earlier I had discussed with the managing partner how I would get paid if I brought in a huge deal. He smiled and said, ‚ÄúTrust me, James, I always take care of everyone.‚Äù When someone says ‚Äútrust me‚Äù or ‚ÄúI will make you rich‚Äù then I know general fuckness will result.  The other thing that happened,spooked me. I was walking with a few of my ‚Äúcolleagues‚Äù to lunch at some crap sandwich place on Wall Street. Suddenly I was on the ground. I had fallen straight down for no reason. I limped for the next three weeks. So my body told me to quit also. I try to listen to my body. Else I can‚Äôt sleep or crap or move properly. In this case, my body didn‚Äôt even want me to walk. Whenever things are good I always worry about what could go wrong. And whenever things are bad it always seems like they will never get better. It‚Äôs not depression. It‚Äôs how the human brain works after one million years of avoiding predators.¬† Every day I try to practice reversing that. I do that by listening to the body, the mind, being grateful, being around positive people, sleeping a lot, eating well. But having a job and being controlled by Masters ruins the practice. Some new study just came out and said more than 50% of people hate their jobs, for the first time ever. What? For the first time ever? I doubt that. Someone on quora asked me: why do people hate their jobs? I answered:¬† Note, not everyone hates their jobs. There are some ‚Äúentre-ployees‚Äù out there that love their jobs. But for the other 98% of the population: - Jobs are modern-day slavery. We are paid just enough to live and not more. You are punished if you ask for more. - We are often verbally abused on the job and we take it because we think it‚Äôs normal that people would yell at us. - The government gets up to 50% of your paycheck and then 10-20% of that goes to kill people on other parts of the planet, including our own children. - We are deluded into thinking our job-friends are our real-friends. With our job friends we talk about pens, genitals, and cubicles. We stop having real-friends. - There‚Äôs a glass ceiling. It doesn‚Äôt matter if you are a woman or minority or a white man. The glass ceiling is that you aren‚Äôt allowed to make more than your Master, even if he‚Äôs an idiot. - From 7am to 7pm you are either A) going to work, B) at work, or C) coming back from work. Hence, the times when you can be most creative are garbage-compacted into your cubicle. - You eat shit at work. And, even worse, you have to shit next to your co-workers and Masters. Unless, like I have, you make a map of all the secret bathrooms in your local urban blight. - When you are paranoid at a job, you are probably correct. THEY are, in fact, talking about you and backstabbing you right now. - You realize that all the dollars you spent on degrees to get you a job that will make you happy were completely wasted. You were scammed but you can‚Äôt let the next generation know how stupid you were so now you become part of perpetuating the scam. - A trillion dollar marketing campaign forced you to buy a house you didn‚Äôt really want and now you will ‚Äúlose a house‚Äù you never really owned if you don‚Äôt bow down to the Masters every day. The words ‚ÄúThe American Dream‚Äù were coined by Fannie Mae in a marketing campaign 40 years ago to sell mortgages to slaves. - Your spouse is tired of hearing about your job after six months. And you couldn‚Äôt care less about hers. Ten years later you wake up next to a total stranger. 40 years later you die next to one. - Your IRA was not intended to provide for your retirement. It was intended to take money from you every month so you remain chained to your cubicle. Inflation then takes 90% of your IRA. - When you were a kid you liked to draw, and read, and run, and laugh, and play, and imagine a magical world. You‚Äôre never going to do any of that again. - Over time everyone is getting fired and being replaced by younger, cheaper, more temporary, more robotic, versions of you. You see this but are afraid to do anything about it. - You see homeless people and think, ‚Äúthere but for the grace of God go I‚Äù. This is not meant to be depressing. Nor does it mean everyone hates their jobs. There are many ways to be an ‚Äúentre-ployee‚Äù where you don‚Äôt have the standard job. To be clear: There are more opportunities than ever. But you have to prepare the body and mind and spirit to find those opportunities. Then you take the magic pill and the tears of dirt wipe away. Come here, pretty baby, and let me hug you. ‚Äî‚Äì [On June 1, I'm releasing a book, "Choose Yourself!" about how to avoid the whole job thing. ¬†Please join my email list and I will update with special material or offers or whatever. It will be fun. Also, if you can think of more reasons people hate their jobs, please put them in the comments] 
Flickr jason.lengstorfEditor's note: This piece has been lightly edited for clarity.¬† It‚Äôs been over 3 years since I first came across Wall Street Oasis as a junior in college. Eventually, I was able to land an investment banking division¬†analyst gig at a bulge bracket. My experience has largely been great, and I am now a 2nd year analyst who will soon join the buyside. I owe a debt of gratitude to many, not the least of which is the WSO community. I‚Äôve noticed that there are plenty of resume / interview prep materials and topics out there, but less so practical, easily actionable tips for those entering banking. Therefore, as a contribution to the WSO community, I‚Äôve put together a short list of direct, practical tips that I feel that every new analyst should know. I‚Äôve tried to keep these tips group/bank ‚Äì agnostic, and noted when they might be less relevant where applicable. So without further ado: Tip #1:¬†Sign up for frequent flier /hotel programs. If you are in a group that allows analysts to travel to meetings, this is money. Business / First class tickets =&gt; bonus miles. Even if you will not be traveling, or not working in banking at all, you should still sign up asap. It costs you nothing and can only lead to good things. Tip #2:¬†Sign up for AMEX Award program. It used to cost $75 /year (may have gone up since then). This allows you to earn points on corporate purchases (cabs, meals, travel, deal toys, closing dinners, etc). The quick and simple math is 1 pt equals $0.005. You earn 1 pt for every $ you spend. The break-even level of corporate spending is $15,000 / year for a $75 / year membership. You should ask other analysts in your group how much they spend per month on average on corporate expenses and plan accordingly. (I won‚Äôt disclose how much I‚Äôve spent per year but it was WELL over the breakeven amount) Yes you can use your personal card and get rewards that way, but depending on how much you spend you may not have that kind of working capital, and you also have to worry about lost receipts, paying extra close attention to reimbursements and the such. IMPORTANT: If you do go with the awards program, make sure to get a personal AMEX at some point before you leave the firm so that you can transfer your accrued points to your personal account (otherwise they will go to waste). Tip #3:¬†Treat your assistant, the presentation / production guys, the janitors, and basically anyone ‚Äúbelow‚Äù you with respect and dignity. It‚Äôs easy for anyone to kiss up to the MD, but it‚Äôs a good reflection of person‚Äôs character based on how that person treats others ‚Äúbelow‚Äù him. There are many ways you should build a good rep for yourself, this is one of the easiest ways. Sidenote: Treat (tip) your assistant especially well. Depending how good they are, they may go beyond their call of duty to hook you up when you need it most. (Think flight upgrades, lost receipts, helping you on a weekend, etc) Tip #4:¬†Get a gym membership and use it. Obvious reasons. Tip #5:¬†Don‚Äôt treat the $25 meal allowance as a target that must be met. Yes you would be leaving money on the table, but sometimes less is more. $25 of anything, even sushi, is a lot of food. Though there are things you can do to counteract this (have a naturally fast metabolism, get a gym membership and use it frequently and right before eating that $25 feast). Saving food for lunch the next day is always an option. Read the rest of the tips at Wall Street Oasis &gt;
Google FinanceStocks are near their lows of the day. The Dow is down 100 points. This comes after yesterday's ugly sell-off. Early today, we got an initial jobless claims report that was a tad higher than expectations, and we also got a Philly Fed manufacturing survey that unexpectedly fell. Evidence continues to pile up to suggest we're heading for an economic spring swoon.
APMorgan Stanley's first-quarter earnings show that not much has been done to heal the weakness in its fixed-income department. Revenue from trading bonds, commodities, and currencies fell 42 percent to $1.5 billion for the first quarter of 2013 from $2.6 billion in the year-earlier period. Those results a markedly worse than the firm's competitors. Goldman Sachs saw its fixed-income trading revenue decline by just 7 percent. Equities sales and trading for institutional clients did not provide any relief here either, with revenue falling 20 percent. It appears that Morgan Stanley's customers are either pulling back, moving business to rival Wall Street firms, or that Morgan Stanley is just making serious trading errors. Morgan pointed to interest rates and commodities as a particular source of weakness. It's not as if Morgan Stanley can explain away the losses by an abundance of caution. It's daily value-at-risk in the institutional securities division that houses the fixed-income and equities traders declined by just 14.32 percent compared to a year ago. Compensation expenses for the institutional securities division fell by 13.6 percentówhich seems the least the firm can do for shareholders given the poor performance of its sales and trading desks. Morgan Stanley did not disclose how much of this compensation decline fell upon the fixed-income traders. We haven't lost track of the fact the bank was able to claim a quarterly profit of $984 million, 49 cents a share, compared to a loss of $94 million, or 6 cents a share, for the first quarter of 2012. Once you exclude an item here and there, you can even tell a story where Morgan Stanley made 61 cents per share. A solid "beat" of the 57-cent consensus expectations put together by the folks at Thompson Reuters. Once you scrape out the noise from accounting charges tied to the value of its debt, however, Morgan Stanley's earnings actually fell. Earnings on operations were just $1.2 billion from $1.3 billion a year earlier. Revenue dipped to $8.5 billion from $8.9 billion. Morgan Stanley may no longer be facing an existential threat, and its wealth management business is doing well. But in many ways, Morgan Stanley is still the sick man of Wall Street.
Flickr / boviateCommodities have been having an ugly year so far. And in just the past few days we've seen lots of volatility in the prices of crude oil, copper, and of course gold. Some experts are starting to smell deflation. Capital Economics' John Higgins says the IMF's updated forecasts from earlier this week are too optimistic, and that inflation risks are benign at best: ...recent falls in commodity prices may have further to run and that the recession in the euro-zone is set to deepen, suggests that inflation may fall even further in the euro-zone in 2014 than the IMF envisages. In the wake of down trading Friday, Art Cashin wrote the following: ...a distinct deflationary chill was blowing across the asset classes. Gold got absolutely pummeled as did silver, copper and oil and scores of others. Some tried to chalk it up to global slowing. Traders, however, pointed to the sharp drop in yield on the U.S. ten year Treasury note. Had it been accompanied by a spike in the dollar, that might have signaled a flight to safety on the Cyprus news. But, with the dollar rather stable and commodities broadly pummeled, the unifying theme seemed to be deflation. Doom-sayer Marc Faber was saying similar things Friday in an apperence on CNBC (via Mish Shedlock): Today we have commodities breaking down including gold. At the same time we have bonds rallying very strongly. If you stand aside and you look at these two events, it would suggest that they are strongly deflationary pressures in the system. If that was the case, I wouldn't buy stocks or sovereign bonds because the stock market would be hit by disappointing profits if there was a deflationary environment. It looks like the faint glow of yesterday's upbeat Beige book report has already worn off.
Mike Segar/ReutersThe U.K.'s economic story for the past five years has been bleak. Next week we'll find out if the U.K. has entered its first ever triple-dip recession. Economists project the economy will post a tiny 0.1% - 0.2% growth in the first quarter. Even if the country does manage to grow a little bit, it's clear that the economy is underperforming. The IMF lowered its growth forecasts for the U.K. by 0.3% for 2013 and 2014. It now expects the economy to expand just 0.7% in 2013, and 1.5% next year. This week again we saw the labor situation deteriorate. As the U.K. economy continues to skate on the edge between growth and recession, economists have increasingly blamed the current government's commitment to austerity, for the nation's economic woes that began with a¬†run on Northern Rock bank in 2007. This was the¬†first run on a U.K. bank in 140 years.¬† Since then there have been two recessions As the subprime crisis crossed over to the U.K. and liquidity concerns started to hit banks in Europe, Northern Rock was nationalized.¬†This was a time when household savings began to rise, spending declined, the government rolled out austerity, and the financial sector hemorrhaged. In late 2008, the Bank of England cut interest rates, and announced a ¬£50 billion plan to partially take over major U.K. banks. The U.K. entered a technical recession.¬†Growth declined for six straight quarters tumbling as much as 2.6% in Q1 2009, before emerging from the recession in Q3 2009 with a modest 0.2%.  The trajectory was very similar to what happened in the U.S. For the year, the economy had contracted 5%.¬† Societe GeneraleIn Q4 2009, GDP increased 0.7%, but the spending boost that led this growth didn't reflect an improved household balance sheet or increased consumer confidence. It is believed to have been boosted by consumers picking up spending to avoid the impending hike in value added tax (VAT). ¬† In Q2 2010, GDP increased 1.1%, the fastest pace since 2007. But economists warned (accurately in hindsight) that this was the peak. By Q4 2010 GDP had again contracted 0.5%. And it was at this time that Finance Minister George Osborne was about to reveal ¬£81 billion in spending cuts.¬† The austerity was so hard to stomach that over two million public sector workers went on strike in November 2011. Public sector pensions were at the heart of the dispute.¬† By Q1 2012, the U.K. had entered its double dip recession, driven by a decline in construction. ¬†Markit EconomicsThe austerity experiment that failed The biggest criticism leveled against Chancellor George Osborne and British prime minister David Cameron has been their almost undivided focus on driving down debt and deficit, at the cost of economic growth.¬† In 2010, when David Cameron came to power he was praised by pundits who said that Cameron was making bold decisions to reduce debt and restore confidence. Whereas traditional Keynesian economics encourages counter-cyclical spending to address a slump, the Cameron experiment was referred to as an endeavor in "expansionary austerity." In June 2010, the U.K. revealed an emergency budget ‚Äî a ¬£40 billion plan to cut the budget deficit. This included an increase in value added tax (VAT) to 20%, from 17.5%. The capital gains tax for high savers increased to 28%. It was called 'tough but fair.' Late that year, Osborne painted a terrifying picture of what would happen if they didn't stick to the deficit plan. At the time, he said: "The market turmoil, the flight of investors, the dismay of business, the loss of confidence, the credit downgrade, the sharp rise in real interest rates, the extra debt interest, the lost jobs, the cancelled investments, the businesses destroyed, the recovery halted, the return of crippling economic instability, Britain back on the brink. We are not going to allow that to happen to our country again." But in last year's December Autumn Statement (AS), Osborne was forced to admit that the government's austerity had not worked. At the time, he said the economy was not on course to meet its target for when debt would start to fall. Yet, he followed this up by extending austerity until 2018, a year longer than previously forecast. In January, the IMF's chief economist Olivier Blanchard warned that Osborne should dial down austerity in the new budget. At the time he told Sky News: "We've never been passionate about austerity. From the beginning we have always emphasized that fiscal consolidation should be slow and steady. ‚Ä¶We still believe that. You have a budget coming in March and we think that would be a good time to take stock and make some adjustments." Then in February, the U.K. lost its AAA rating.¬† Moody's attributed the downgrade to, "the increasing clarity that ... the U.K.'s economic growth will remain sluggish over the next few years due to the anticipated slow growth of the global economy and the drag on the U.K. economy from the ongoing domestic public and private-sector deleveraging process." Moody's also said the weaker growth has limited projected tax revenue increases and impacted the pace of debt and deficit reduction. Reuters/David Moir"[George Osborne] said the number one benchmark by which this government should be judged is its ability to keep its AAA credit rating," David Blanchflower, economist and former member of the Monetary Policy Committee (MOC), told Business Insider, "Not that I thought it was a sensible thing to focus on that AAA rating, but given that‚Äôs what the government said I‚Äôm perfectly entitled to judge them according to their own words. And I judge them harshly.‚Äù Blanchflower said that despite the government's efforts to lower deficit and debt, their approach has been all wrong. "The way to deal with debt is to deal with growth, if you deal with growth the deficit takes care of itself. This government believes if you take care of the deficit, growth takes care of itself and that‚Äôs laughable nonsense that‚Äôs proved to be untrue." This chart from Lombard Street Research compares U.S. and U.K. GDP growth and then looks at how the U.K.'s budget deficit compares with America's. As you can see, growth in the U.K. has been substantially worse, where as deficits are not looking any better. Lombard Street Research Lombard Street Research Blanchflower, who has frequently taken Osborne and Cameron to task, wants to see the government do four key things: The latest budget¬†however brought with it more austerity. Most government departments were asked to cut their budgets by an additional 1% in 2013 and 2014, thereby freeing up ¬£2.5 billion for capital spending. This followed a December announcement of 1% cuts in 2013-2014, and 2% in 2014-2015, to the budgets of various departments. The new budget planned cuts to daily government spending in order to allow for spending in longer-term projects. REUTERS/Andrew WinningThe Bank of England's Remit Osborne's budget included a review of the Bank of England's remit that gives the central bank more policy tools to boost economic growth without drastically changing monetary policy. While the new remit maintains the 2% inflation target, it gets around the problem of sticking to the target by "splitting 'shocks and disturbances into those that are temporary, and those that 'may persist for an extended period of time,'" according to Lombard Street Research's Dario Perkins. image"This is official government endorsement for what the Bank has already been doing. In return, the Bank must now make more effort to explain its approach ‚Äì in particular, by identifying any 'trade-offs' it sees with GDP growth (e.g. 'it's not worth tightening more to bring inflation down because that would hit the economy too hard')." Moreover, the remit now gives the central bank more freedom in using credit easing, forward policy guidance like the Federal Reserve, and it makes U.K. monetary policy more "microprudential," according to Perkins. "The MPC can now ‚Äì if it chooses ‚Äì use interest rates to target financial-sector risks." Some think this may be too simplistic Some like David Tinsley, chief U.K. economist at BNP Paribas, think it's too simplistic to characterize this as a tight fiscal/loose monetary policy problem. Tinsley told Business Insider that there have been two big impediments to the economic recovery in the U.K. The first has to do with external factors, like a slowdown in the global economy, which in turn has been a drag on exports. The second, has been the deleveraging in the banking sector.¬† What's more,¬†the Financial Policy Committee (FPC) has asked banks to add another ¬£25 billion in capital reserves by the end of 2013. The FPC still thinks that 25% of the U.K. banking sector's assets are in institutions with leverage that is 40 times their equity. Reuters/Alessia PierdomenicoWhile this helps strengthen the banking system in the long run, "the push towards larger capital buffers and tighter regulation more generally, almost certainly has negative effects on the supply of credit, wider monetary conditions and the pace of recovery,' writes Jamie Dannhauser at Lombard Street Research. From Dannhauser: "The MPC and FPC both complain that the dysfunctional banking system is holding back the rebalancing of the economy and productivity growth. Yet both committees are strongly supportive of measures that at least partly are making banks less willing to lend and finance the small, risky firms that play a key role in the creative destruction process. But it is not just the asset side of banks‚Äô balance sheets that will be affected; banks‚Äô capital raising, whether this is in the form of new equity issuance, reduced employee compensation or higher profit retention, reduces the quantity of broad money directly, ceteris paribus. Almost uniformly ignored in this debate, this is a key negative side-effect of higher capital requirements for banks and operates in a similar way to asset sales by the central bank, i.e. quantitative tightening. ‚Ä¶But the bigger problem with the FPC‚Äôs actions is this ‚Äì regulators keep moving the goalposts and changing the rules which banks have to play by. Just when banks with large legacy portfolios thought they had returned their balance sheets to health, they are told that more has to be done. What the MPC giveth, the FPC taketh away." Despite these other drags on the U.K. economy, consensus seems to be that austerity has failed. IMF's Blanchard argues that Osborne is "playing with fire" and that he should "decrease the speed of fiscal consolidation." Blanchflower is a bit more explicit. "Almost everything this government says; do the opposite ... I would just say, anything they ever say, my default position would be do the opposite."
YouTubeIt's a well-known fact that hedge fund god Ray Dalio, who runs Bridgewater Associates, loves to meditate.† In fact, he has attributed the practice to his success as a hedge fund manager. Dalio is one of the world's most successful hedge fund managers.† It looks like meditation is getting some serious attention in the business community. Just last week, Georgetown University's McDonough†School†of†Business†said it would offer meditation as a class, according to Reuters' James Saft. Reuters reports:† At a conference last week in Washington, Dalio expounded on how his practice of meditation has helped his investment performance. Georgetown University, at the same conference, announced it would begin to offer a semester-long class on the discipline at its graduate†business†school. Now that sounds like an awesome class.† Now check out Dalio in this video explaining how meditation "was the biggest ingredient of whatever success I've had."†  Ray Dalio on Meditation from Meditation WCCM on Vimeo.
flickr/Cindy SchultzSeaWorld, the popular chain of marine theme parks and aquariums, is going public today. The company's IPO filing is pretty standard, among other things spelling out the usual risks involved in its business that could affect financial performance in the future. However, one of the items on that list of things that makes SeaWorld risky is particularly harsh: the risks presented by the animals they showcase at their parks (see page 20 of the document). Below is the aforementioned section of the prospectus (emphasis added): Featuring animals at our theme parks involves risks. Our theme parks feature numerous displays and interactions that include animals. All animal enterprises involve some degree of risk. All animal interaction by our employees and our guests in attractions in our theme parks, where offered, involves risk. While we maintain strict safety procedures for the protection of our employees and guests, injuries or death, while rare, have occurred in the past. For example, in February 2010, a trainer was killed while engaged in an interaction with a killer whale. Following this incident, we were subject to an inspection by the U.S. Department of Laborís Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), which resulted in three citations concerning alleged violations of the Occupational Safety and Health Act and certain regulations thereunder. We have appealed certain of these citations and the appeal process is ongoing. In connection with this incident, we reviewed and revised our safety protocols and made certain safety-related facility enhancements. This incident has also been the subject of significant media attention, including television and newspaper coverage, a documentary and a book, as well as discussions in social media. This incident and similar events that may occur in the future may harm our reputation, reduce attendance and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, seven killer whales are presently on loan to a third party. Although the occurrence of any accident or injury involving these killer whales would be outside of our control, any such occurrence could negatively affect our business and reputation. We maintain insurance of the type and in amounts that we believe is commercially reasonable and that is available to animal enterprise related businesses in the theme park industry. We cannot predict the level of the premiums that we may be required to pay for subsequent insurance coverage, the level of any self-insurance retention applicable thereto, the level of aggregate coverage available, or the availability of coverage for specific risks. It's not something anyone necessarily wants to be reminded of, but it's necessary for a company like SeaWorld nonetheless, especially given that it has dealt with this issue head-on in the past.
100 Percent MenThere's a Tumblr, 100 Percent Men, circulating right now that highlights all the organizations that are led, and have historically been led by only men. Created by Lydia DePillis, a staff writer at the New Republic, the site is†meant to bring awareness to how far our society is from true gender equality. DePillis doesn't offer much commentary, beyond a description at the top of the site: "Corners of the world where women have yet to tread. Shine a light." Rebecca Greenfield at The Atlantic writes that "DePillis says she had 'no proactive intent' when creating the site, the natural order of things suggests awareness will facilitate change." Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg discussed the issue of gender equality in her controversial book, "Lean In." Sandberg has been outspoken about how we're in a "stalled revolution" for women, and points out in her book that currently women hold 16 percent of board seats and only 21 of Fortune 500 CEOs are women.
ignitemyplan.comMeet Blair Hodgson DuQuesnay.Blair Hodgson DuQuesnay disproves a well-circulated myth: that financial planning is the exclusive province of gray-headed advisors who cater to middle-aged and elderly clients with fat wallets. The 31-year-old advisor just founded her own independent registered investment advisor business that caters to young professionals in New Orleans. She believes that advisors neglect to harness the power of the Web and ignore younger investors at their own peril. Clients in Generation X and Y are tomorrow‚Äôs well-heeled set. DuQuesnay founded¬†Ignite Investments &amp; Planning¬†to fill what she saw as a void in the market for transparent, unbiased financial advice that gives equal weight to investing and long-term planning. After five years with UBS Financial Services in Atlanta and New York City, she spent 18 months with Wealthstream Advisors, a New York boutique advisory firm, before moving to New Orleans. She was attracted to New Orleans‚Äô vibrant culture and entrepreneurs‚Äô community as well as proximity to her family in Alabama. She became a partner at Ferro Financial, just outside of the Big Easy, and stayed for two years before starting her own RIA. The tough part about making young professionals the centerpiece of her business plan is that many are wary of Wall Street, due to the financial crisis, or lack investable assets. ‚ÄúOn so many occasions, I heard people say that they wished they had enough money to work with me,‚Äù DuQuesnay says. ‚ÄúPart of my job is to educate people and tell them that, even if they have no assets outside a 401(k) or a home, there are still things that I can do to help.‚Äù Those include working out a plan to pay down student debt, taking steps toward purchasing a first home or helping with retirement plan allocations. The financial services industry is too focused on baby boomers and retirees, according to DuQuesnay. Young families are underserved, she believes, and don‚Äôt even realize that they can become clients. ‚ÄúI hope that I can help them realize that there are easy changes that they can make now before they wait too long and have to make harder choices,‚Äù she says. Part of DuQuesnay‚Äôs challenge is getting the word out on the younger generation‚Äôs main form of communication: social media and the Web. This is why she is such an active¬†tweeter¬†and¬†blogger. ¬† ‚ÄúSocial media don‚Äôt necessarily pull leads, but it validates you. I rarely make first contact with someone on social media, but people look on the Internet for everything first,‚Äù she says. ‚ÄúHuge numbers of millenials check Facebook and Twitter first thing in the morning, and that‚Äôs one great way to reach them.‚Äù She says that it‚Äôs also important that advisors put more than just basic information on their websites. ‚ÄúI write articles on a wide variety of financial topics,‚Äù she says. ‚ÄúIf an article resonates with someone, they might see me as an expert in the field and perhaps think of me when they need help.‚Äù Follow AdviceIQ on Twitter at¬†@adviceiq.
Flickr/Sander van der WelGold investors are still licking their wounds in the wake of the massive sell-off that ended with the price down 15% in just two days. When stocks fall, value mentality often springs. But the gold bulls óand there continue to be gold bulls out there ó have been relatively quiet. It seems people are losing hope in gold's ability to do what it's investors believed it should do. UBS's Edel Tully is out with a brief note titled "Gold Post-Mortem." Tully visited with clients, and the feedback was incredibly bleak: Seeing clients in the US this week, one thing is clear ñ market confidence has suffered severely and there is little appetite to buy the (massive) dip. Negative feelings towards gold dominate, the reasons for which range from the US and global growth improvement, the diminished tail risks out of the Eurozone, the consequent redundancy of defensive assets, and rising talk of tapering QE among Fed members that suggest a sooner rather than later end to US money printing. Many are concerned about the persistence of large ETF outflows, and the potential for this to continue given how much this investment segment has grown over the past several years. Others point to intense disappointment with goldís failure to rally significantly even during periods when the stars were supposed to be aligned in its favour. Indeed, these sentiments echo that of counterparts in Europe. Interestingly, while the potential for central bank gold sales was generally deemed an important contributing factor to the decline, quite a few also share our scepticism and view further sales from other Eurozone periphery central banks a rather small possibility. Tully and her team, however, don't think it's the end of the world for gold. "But...gold has already lost so much in such a short period that we are now inclined to think that the worst is likely over in terms of violent price declines," she writes. "We do not think this is the end for gold. "We expect gold to eventually trade back to around $1400 /1450 and find a home there. Clearly this is not the same as reclaiming its old price ground though. Gold has lost a lot of fans in the past week, and it won't get them back quickly."
APIn a speech that was both solemn and uplifting, President Barack Obama delivered a terse warning to the "small, stunted individuals" responsible for Monday's†bombings at the Boston Marathon.† "Yes, we will find you. And yes, you will face justice," Obama said, speaking at an interfaith service at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross in Boston. Obama's speech, which came just three days after the attacks, took an at-times personal tone. He hailed Boston as a great American city, fondly recalling how the city welcomed him as a Harvard law student, and he told those responsible that they "picked the wrong city" to attack. "This town is not just a capital ó not just a place. Boston is the perfect state of grace," Obama began, citing a famous poem by E.B. White. "Boston's your hometown, but we claim it a little bit, too," he said. "I know this because there's a little piece of Boston in me." "Boston," he said, "you're my home." Obama declared that the city would rebound from the bombings, and he said "you can bet" the 118th Boston Marathon will be run next year on Patriot's Day. "We may be momentarily knocked off our feet, but we'll pick ourselves up. We'll keep going. We'll finish the race," Obama said. Former Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney also attended the interfaith service, along with various Massachusetts members of Congress who made the trip with Obama. First Lady Michelle Obama also attended the service. A number of speakers delivered remarks before Obama.† "We will not to overcome by evil ó but combat evil with good," Cardinal Sean O'Malley said. Boston Mayor Thomas Menino said he "never loved Boston more than I do today."
Josh Hedges/Zuffa LLC via Getty ImagesA number of the 34 individuals accused of running an international gambling ring based in the U.S. and Russia were arraigned in a New York City Courtroom yesterday, and that means more juicy details about the organization's clandestine activities. According to an indictment filed by federal authorities earlier this week, for years the Nahmad-Trincher and Taiwanchik-Trincher groups catered to the poker and sports betting needs of the world's most rich and powerful ‚Äî oligarchs, Hollywood stars, Wall Street bankers and more. All the while, they laundered their ill-gotten gains through banks and businesses all over the world, using violence to intimidate clients when they could not settle their debts. At yesterday's arraignment, reports GalleristNY, Judge James C. Francis spent most of his time on Arthur Azen. Azen faces 115 years in jail, more jail time than any other defendant, and a $2.25 million fine. Even though he wasn't a leader of either Trincher group, the prosecution argued that Azen had a hand in every sector of the gambling business, collecting money, distributing it through the organization, and making sure that debts were paid. From GalleristNY: ‚ÄúMr. Azen‚Äôs job is basically to suck money out of Titan and funnel it to‚Äù other defendants, said one of the prosecutors. The prosecution also stated that Mr. Azen sent mixed martial arts fighters to collect from one of the Nahmad-Trincher organization‚Äôs debtors. The federal agents monitoring Mr. Azen were apparently ‚Äúso concerned‚Äù for the wellbeing of a person who owed money that they intervened on one occasion by sending in police officers to protect the debtor. The defense explained that Mr. Azen was ‚Äúmanaging and promoting‚Äù mixed martial arts fighters, not using them to intimidate debtors. The Trincher groups' alleged leaders were not at the arraignment, and getting them to a NYC Courtroom may be a delicate and diplomatic operation. According to authorities, the leaders of the Trincher groups were Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov, Vadim Trincher, his son Ilya Trincher, and billionaire art dealer Hillel "Helly" Nahmad. Tokhtakhounov, based in Russia, has been in trouble with U.S. authorities before. He was accused of trying to rig the Salt Lake City Winter Olympics and was detained at his Tuscan villa in 2002. The "Vor" (basically Russian for "Godfather") managed to stay in Europe, however, when Italian authorities overturned his extradition order to the United States. He has been linked to powerful politicians in Russia, including Vladimir Putin, says the NYT. Helly Nahmad is another story. The police raided his family's Upper East Side gallery on Tuesday, but he was in Los Angeles where he was supposed to surrender to authorities later that day ‚Äî he has yet to be found. The Nahmad family is one of the wealthiest art dealing families in the world. Their roots are in Aleppo, Syria where the family scion (also named Hillel) first made his mark on the world of banking. Eventually, the family made its way to Europe and then to NYC, where one of the two Helly Nahmad Galleries is located. The family is known both for its incredible up to 5,000 piece private collection (90% of which is held in storage) and its secrecy. Forbes estimates 34 year-old Helly's father's wealth at $1.75 billion.
Natural gas prices are way up this morning on a bullish Energy Department report, extending a solid two-months' worth of gains. Futures were up 2.67% after DOE reported a lower-than-expected 31 billion cubic feet were added to benchmark inventories. That's was also below the five-year-trend.¬† Here's the intraday chart: Investing.com And here are ticks going back to mid-February. The rally has been fueled almost entirely on the long, (long, long...) winter much of the East coast has experienced. Citi's Timothy Evans says that as soon as spring comes the rally will fade. From his insta-note this morning: Although the data revives the upside potential for prices in the near term, we still consider the rally as more fragile than it might appear as it is still weather dependent. Investing.com In case you missed it, Goldman is calling natural gas "the new safe haven."
The multimillionaire Barclays executive made his name and his fortune as Bob Diamondís side-kick in the pre-recession era of huge bonuses and oversaw the ëdeal of the centuryí to buy Lehman Brothers. Outside of banking, Ricci loves the races and can be seen there in his trilby and three-piece suit with designer shades. He owns a number of top racehorses based in Ireland, including many that ran at Cheltenham Festival. He is now among the leading jump owners in Ireland along with the long established JP McManus and Michael OíLeary, chief executive of Ryanair. And while his fortune has been described as well in excess of £100million, last year he was snapped buying a Euromillions Lottery ticket in a Canary Wharf shop for a shot at the £92million jackpot. The American with the famously apt name, originally from Nebraska, joined Barclays in 2004 and alongisde Jerry del Missier, and was part of the close-knit management team gathered by the former chief executive Mr Diamond that together built Barclays Capital. In his time at the bank he has held several roles. He was appointed Chief Operating Officer of Barclays Global Investors (BGI) and a member of the BGI Executive Committee in December 2002. As chief operating officer of BGI, he helped turn the bank's US-based investment management business into one of the world's largest asset managers. In January 2005, Rich was appointed Chief Operating Officer of Investment Banking and Investment Management, incorporating Barclays Capital, Barclays Wealth and BGI. In late 2008, he took charge of the integration of Lehman Brothers' North American operation after Barclays acquired them in the wake of the US investment bank's bankruptcy. He was widely credited for completing the complex task ahead of schedule and for getting the operation up and running. Rich was appointed Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking in 2009, and assumed his current position in June 2012. Last month he received a £17m share bonus, which he sold immediately . Mr Ricci did not get a bonus for last year after Barclays was fined $450m for rigging Libor interest rates, but is expected to have received £1.5m for last year, including £700,000 in salary and £800,000 in long-term share awards. He will retire from the bank at the end of June . There had been speculation he would not stay at Barclays as new chief executive Antony Jenkins overhauls the bank. Prior to joining Barclays, Ricci held senior front office, finance and technology positions at the Bank of Boston and the Bank of New England. He also holds a bachelorís degree in finance from Creighton University, Omaha, Nebraska.  † 
 REUTERS/Bazuki Muhammad The stock market has been weak lately, and commodities have been getting crushed. Does this mean that the global economy is really slowing down hard? Maybe. Recent U.S. economic data has been disappointing, especially in the realm of housing, which is what the U.S. bull case is all about. In Germany, dubbed the strong-arm of Europe, economic sentiment just fell. And growth has begun to slow in China ñ still considered a global growth engine ñ as it continues to crack down on corruption, property prices, and shadow banking. China's plan to shift its economic model away from exports to domestic demand led growth has also contributed to the lower growth rate.  Here's a quick look at some key data emerging from around the world: The U.S. Europe China Bottom line: In the three most important economic regions, there are signs of flagging all over the place.
via EllimanAfter super-storm Sandy, a bunch of hedge funders have set up barricades to protect Hamptons mansions and property from the wrath of the ocean. The New York Times Michael Schwirtz reports:¬† ...Joshua Harris,¬†a billionaire hedge fund founder and an owner of the Philadelphia 76ers, began to fear that his $25 million home on the water here might fall victim to the next major storm. So he installed a costly defense against incoming waves: a shield of large metal plates on the beach, camouflaged by sand. His neighbor, Mark Rachesky, another billionaire¬†hedge fund¬†founder, put up similar fortifications between his home and the surf. Chris Shumway, who closed his $8 billion hedge fund two years ago, trucked in boulders the size of Volkswagens. But there's another storm brewing in Southampton, though. According to the report, there are concerns amongst locals that these fortifications designed to protect these multi-million summer homes could actually speed up the erosion of public beaches. Beaches in front of dunes in the Hamptons are open to the public, the report said citing local laws. The property behind the dune belongs to the homeowner. ¬† "All these people are extremely rich and they‚Äôre broadcasting the message of 'Me first,'" Fred Havemeyer, a member of the Town of Southampton board of trustees told the¬†NYTimes. Harris is the co-founder of Apollo Global Management. His wall cost about $50,000, according to the NYTimes. Rachesky runs¬†MHR Fund Management. Shumway was a so-called "Tiger Cub" fund manager.¬†
REUTERS/David DenomaEditor's note: yesterday, we published new data from U-Haul showing Pittsburgh had the highest percentage of inbound to outbound moves in 2012. We reached out to newly minted Pittsburgh resident Dom Beveridge, a multifamily real estate and lodging/travel industry consultant, to explain the incredible influx to the Steel City.† Here is an edited version of the note he sent us: I recently moved here from California for my wifeís work ó she's in the oil industry. Thatís not unusual ñ if one half of a couple has a career in oil (where you have to move around in order to advance) then the other canít have a location-bound job. Other oil companies are doing the same. The energy boom here is real.† But in my view the important thing to understand is that itís in its very early stages.† Production right now is tiny, given that the Appalachians sit the worldís second largest known gas reserve (after Iran/Qatar).† I think itís because natural gas prices are very low in the US ñ which (bizarrely) means that supply doesnít grow as quickly as it would if gas were as expensive as crude oil, for example.† But big oil companies have been buying up shale gas producers and are in it for the long run.† Over time demand will grow (frankly itís ridiculous that the US continues to mine and burn coal given the abundance of gas), which will push prices and production up.† Which means that for the next generation or two wealth should accumulate rapidly in and around Pittsburgh. There are a few other factors that ñ I think ñ set the city up nicely.† There was never much of a housing bubble in Pittsburgh.† House prices were relatively low both before and after the financial crash.† So I donít think the city suffered that characteristic of lots of people suddenly being under water on their houses.† So local businesses probably came through the downturn relatively unscathed.† Further, prior to the invention of horizontal drilling (the technology that made the shale gas boom possible when it was invented about a decade ago), Pittsburghís economy was already growing, having re-invented itself as a center of higher education and medicine. My wife (who actually grew up here) points to an event a few years ago.† The US Steel Building (the tallest building between NY and Chicago) became the UPMC building. †It felt like that change to the skyline signaled a change in the cityís economic fortunes.† Pitt and CMU are excellent universities.† UPMC is a world class medical organization.† CMU is a top engineering school, and produces an abundance of the skills needed in a knowledge-based economy.† Itís what made Google set up shop here.† Their presence ñ and presumably other, related companies ñ are changing the East End of the city (the area near the universities).† Folks that knew that part of town 10 years ago say that the transformation has been remarkable.† Neighborhoods like East Liberty, Lawrenceville etc, used to be rough and have little to offer culturally, etc.† Now theyíre hotbeds of good restaurants, entertainment and culture.† Nobody could have said that a few years ago! There are now more jobs of the type customarily found in SF and Silicon Valley in Pittsburgh.† I think thatís mostly to do with Google ñ and again, thatís not a reflection of Google moving lots of people from SF to Pittsburgh, rather the competition for talent in the Bay Area is so fierce right now ñ especially for Facebook and Google ñ that it makes sense to set up operations close to major engineering schools (like CMU) in a few different US cities. So I guess the summary is, I think the city has been doing well for some time, mostly because of favorable underlying economics and the long-term growth in the education and medical industries.† But shale gas is changing the fortunes of the city and will continue to do so for a long time.
Earlier stock futures were up nicely, but things have gone red. The S&amp;P is off 0.6%. Yahoo Finance This morning we got an okay initial jobless claims report, but the Philly Fed manufacturing report, which just came out, showed more weakness. Europe has also weakened considerably in the last several minutes
A leaked video that show Vladimir Putin berating Russian officials during a meeting with cabinet ministers and regional leaders has shocked many in Russia, where Putin usually goes to great lengths to appear nonchalant and relaxed. The video was published Wednesday to LifeNews.ru, and appears to have been covertly filmed by someone in the room during a meeting on housing issues, even though the Russian president had told journalists to turn off their cameras before beginning on his screed.  Fred Weir of the Christian Science Monitor has translated some of the harsher words. "How are we working?," Putin tells the group. "The quality of work is extremely low. If we're going to work like that then we'll achieve [nothing]." Putin went on to imply he may have to fire some officials: "If we don‚Äôt do this, we will have to admit that either I‚Äôm not working effectively, or you all are working badly and you all should leave. I want to draw your attention to the fact that today I am leaning towards the second option." The Kremlin has criticized the release of the video, but many are wondering if there's more to the story ‚Äî and whether it could be a sign that Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev has fallen out of favor in Moscow. LifeNews.ru is a website with known links to the Kremlin, and the video was released just hours before Medvedev due to give a report on the ailing Russian economy to the country's parliament. Later on Wednesday, police raided one of Medvedev's pet projects, the Skolkovo innovation hub near Moscow. Bloomberg reports that police are investigating the alleged misspending of 3.5 billion rubles ($111 million) provided by the government.  
Bloomberg via GettyThe battle between traditional media outlets and social media in the race to identify--and avoid misidentifying--the Boston bomb suspect(s) continues. Today, the New York Post put a picture of two people in the marathon crowd on its cover, saying that authorities had circulated the photo and wanted to identify the men and talk to them. This picture has "gone viral" online. A posting at the top of a section of the social media site Reddit, meanwhile, says the two men in the photo are "local guys and appear to be innocent." Reddit users are so angry that the photo is still being distributed that the site is threatening to permanently ban any user who submits a link to the photo. Yesterday, we reported that people were trying to "crowdsource" the identity of the bomber(s) by analyzing photos and creating a "subreddit" called FINDBOSTONBOMBERS. The top posting in that subreddit is now the following:¬†  CBS is also now saying that the people in photos floating around the Internet are not the people in photos that the FBI will eventually release. Gawker has found the Facebook page of one of the men in the photo and says he is a local high-school student who runs track. The investigation into the Boston bombings is being driven by a desperate desire to find the person or people who killed three innocent people and maimed many others, as well as a fervent desire not to repeat the mistakes of the past, when the media and authorities have focused the nation's attention on innocent people. The most famous example of this is the media persecution of a security guard named Richard Jewell who was initially a suspect in a bombing at the Atlanta Olympics and was later cleared. The FBI is expected to release more information at a press conference later today.
Getty Images/Tom PenningtonThe Philly Fed's April business outlook survey is out. The headline index unexpectedly fell to 1.3 from last month's 2.0 reading. The consensus estimate predicted a rise to 3.0. The unemployment sub-index plunged from 2.7 in March to -6.8 in April. The new orders sub-index declined from 0.5 to -1.0. Below is the full text from the release: Manufacturers responding to the Business Outlook Survey reported near steady business activity in April. The indicator for overall activity remained slightly positive this month, but other broad indicators were mixed. Indicators for new orders and employment were weaker this month. The survey's broad indicators of future activity suggest that firms expect continued growth, but optimism waned compared with last month. The survey's broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index of current activity, was 1.3, just slightly lower than the reading of 2.0 in March (see Chart). The number of firms reporting increased activity this month (22 percent) edged out those reporting decreased activity (21 percent). The demand for manufactured goods remained weak, with the current new orders index declining from 0.5 to -1.0. The shipments index showed continued improvement, however: The index remained positive and edged six points higher, to 9.1, its highest reading in four months. Nearly 28 percent of the firms reported an increase in shipments; 19 percent reported a decrease. Firms reported a notable decrease in inventories this month: The current inventories index fell from zero to -22.2. Labor market conditions showed continued signs of stability, but little overall growth. The employment index increased from 0.9 in February to 2.7 this month, its second consecutive positive reading. The percentage of firms reporting employment increases (17 percent) narrowly exceeded the percentage reporting decreases (14 percent). Firms also reported a decline of average work hours this month. The workweek index declined 11 points. Labor market conditions showed continued signs of weakness, with indexes suggesting lower employment overall. The em-ployment index decreased from 2.7 in March to -6.8 this month, its first negative reading in three months. The percentage of firms reporting employment decreases (17 percent) exceeded the percentage reporting increases (10 percent). The workweek index remained negative for the fourth consecutive month. The survey's price indexes suggest diminished price pressures this month. With regard to purchased inputs, 14 percent of firms reported paying higher prices for inputs, while 11 percent reported lower input prices. The prices paid index edged 5 points lower and is now at its lowest reading since July 2009. The prices received index fell 7 points, to -7.5. The percentage of firms reporting lower prices for their own manufactured goods (12 percent) exceeded the percentage reporting higher prices (5 percent) for the fourth consecutive month. Most of the survey's future indicators suggest diminished optimism this month. The future general activity index fell notably from 32.5 to 19.5 (see Chart). The percentage of firms expecting increases in activity over the next six months (37 percent) still exceeded the percentage expecting decreases (17 percent) by a significant margin. The indexes for future new orders and ship-ments also weakened, falling 10 and 5 points, respectively. The future employment index, however, was virtually unchanged this month. Twenty-four percent of firms expect to increase employment over the next six months; 16 percent expect to decrease it. For this month's special questions, firms were asked about the trend of underlying demand for their products over the last three months (see Special Questions). On balance, firms indicated modest improvement in demand: 55 percent of the firms indicated increases in demand over the past three months, while 29 percent indicated decreases. When asked how current demand compares with what was expected three months earlier, nearly 44 percent of the firms indicated that it was greater than expected. When asked about uncertainty and hiring, more firms (65 percent) indicated demand uncertainty as the most important factor adversely influencing hiring, while 18 percent reported regulatory uncertainty. The April Business Outlook Survey indicates essentially flat growth in the region's manufacturing sector this month. The indi-cators for general activity and new orders remained near their levels in March, but shipments showed some improvement. Employment levels edged lower, however. Although firms expect continued growth over the next six months, the survey's measures of overall expectations suggest diminished optimism this month. Firms continue to indicate modest hiring plans. Click here for the full release &gt;
jekemp / FlickrChecks sent out by the government to provide financial relief to owners of distressed homes bounced, the New York Times' Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess report. The funds come from a $3.6 billion settlement the government reached with the nation's largest banks over wrongful evictions and other actions against underwater mortgage holders. It's not clear how many homeowners received bad checks, but housing advocates coast-to-coast, as well as regulators, say they've received a flood of complaints, the pair write. From the Times: In recent days, problems arose at Rust Consulting, a firm chosen to distribute the checks, people briefed on the matter said. After collecting the $3.6 billion from the banks, these people said, Rust failed to move the money into a central account at Huntington National Bank in Ohio, the bank that issued the checks to homeowners.† Many banks, after spotting a phone number for Huntington on the back of the checks and confirming the legitimacy of the money, agreed to process the payments. But some credit unions, check cashers and community banks apparently looked only at the account number on the unfamiliar-looking checks and ultimately found a zero balance, the people briefed on the matter said. The government says they believe the issue has been resolved and are urging homeowners to try again. Read the full story on NYTimes.com &gt;
Larry Kudlow continues to nail it. Growth solves debt, not the other way around. Trouble w/ Reinhart/Rogoff debate not stats. It's this: Growth solves debt, not other way around.Reform taxes, spending, regs,money.#tcot You can argue about what mix of tax reform, spending, and regulatory reform is needed. But the point that growth solves debt, not the other way around is crucial.
WikipediaHow did Reinhart and Rogoff's now-infamous (ok, in economics circles) Excel error make it through a peer-reviewed journal? Answer: it wasn't a peer-reviewed journal ‚Äî or at least, the edition their work appeared in wasn't. If you're new to this story, economic professors Carmen Reinhart and Ken Rogoff published a paper called "Growth in a Time of Debt" in the American Economic Review in 2010. They argued that high debt levels lead to low growth for countries, and at 90 percent debt levels, growth goes negative. Everyone wrote this up at the time, and the study has been repeatedly cited by many deficit hawks. But many had misgivings about their findings, because lots of people had trouble re-creating them using the data Reinhart and Rogoff cited. (There was also a lot of skepticism about whether the relationship between high debt and low growth was causal) This week, a group of UMass economists published a paper saying they think they figured out, in part, why: the pair made an error in Excel that caused an entire subset of countries to be excluded from their data set. Finance blogger Mike Konczal was among the first to notice the new paper. By Wednesday, Reinhart and Rogoff had fully owned up to the Excel oversight.¬† Still, many are wondering how could it have gone unnoticed by the Review. We spoke with Virginia economics professor William R. Johnson, who edited the edition of the Review in which the paper first appeared.¬† This annual edition, "Papers and Proceedings," differs from all others in that the papers come out of presentations made at the yearly meeting of the American Economic Association, he said. The papers are personally selected by the AEA's president-elect, in consultation with a ¬†committee. As a result of these unusual circumstances, Johnson said, the editing of "Proceeding" papers is less rigorous. "Normal peer review doesn't happen for these papers in the way of other issues of the AER." Here, is what he's talking about. From the introductory section of the edition: AER The data must still be replicable. But author prestige also comes into play, Johnson said, adding that that was true for all AER papers, not just the ones that appear in "Proceedings."¬† And it's not necessarily the referees' responsibility to replicate the findings. "A lot of this is based on trust and people's reputations. The main mechanism for finding an error is after publication ‚Äî someone tries to replicate it." It's possible that if the paper had gone through the normal refereeing process it would have been caught, Johnson said, but he's not confident. "If it's¬†some internal data error, that's very hard to detected without replication," he said. Reinhart and Rogoff are standing by their conclusions, despite the error. But Arindrajit Dube (via Felix Salmon) has now made a convincing case that Reinhart and Rogoff have their causality reversed: rather than large debt driving slow growth, slow growth leads to large debts. This is probably not over. ¬†
Reuters/ Steve MarcusHedge funder Daniel Loeb backed out of speaking at a conference after teacher union bosses threatened to grill him on his stance on their pension benefits, the New York Post Michelle Celarier reports. The billionaire fund manager, who runs Third Point LLC, was scheduled to speak at the Council of Institutional Investors in D.C. this morning at 9:45 a.m. He was going to be on a panel with JANA Partners' Barry Rosenstein,¬†according to the event's agenda. He wrote a letter backing out yesterday afternoon.¬† The reason, according to the Post, is that attendees wanted to confront him over his stance on their pension benefits. There were reports linking Loeb with StudentsFirst, an educational advocacy group that wants to get rid of defined benefit pension plans. He is on the board of the group's New York chapter, according to his SALT conference bio.¬† This was first brought to light in a scathing¬†Matt Taibbi piece in¬†Rolling Stone¬†last week. Taibbi basically said that Loeb solicits the business of pension funds, but betrays them through his involvement with Students First.¬† Here's the meat of Taibbi's piece:¬† But here's the catch. Dan¬†Loeb, who isn't known as the biggest hedge-fund asshole still working on Wall Street (only because Stevie Cohen hasn't been arrested yet), is¬†on the board¬†and co-founder of a group called Students First New York. And Students First has been one of the leading advocates pushing for states to abandon defined benefit plans ‚Äì packages which guarantee certain retirement benefits for public workers like teachers ‚Äì in favor of defined contribution plans, where the benefits are not guaranteed. In other words, Loeb has been soliciting the retirement money of public workers, then turning right around and lobbying for those same workers to lose their benefits. He's essentially asking workers to pay for their own disenfranchisement (with Loeb getting his two-and-twenty cut, or whatever obscene percentage of their retirement monies he will charge as a fee). If that isn't the very definition of balls, I don't know what is. Taibbi said he reached out to Loeb for comment before the story was published. They were supposed to meet up, but Loeb changed his mind, according to Taibbi's article. Loeb has since denied the recent press reports. In a letter to the CII obtained by Hedge Fund Intelligence, Loeb writes, "Contrary to reports, I have never taken a position against DB plans nor has any philanthropic organization I lead."
This time, with better math! A little while ago I wrote that, as a fiduciary, I worried about the sustainability of endowments and retiree portfolios, which traditionally have drawn 5% and 4% respectively from assets per year, in the conventional belief that this is ‚Äòsustainable.‚Äô¬† These 4% and 5% rules of thumb for the past 50 years guided fiduciaries and retirees that live off of savings, or endowment managers who parcel out funds annually to run non-profits such as schools and hospitals. My argument was admittedly simplistic ‚Äì basically, that with bond yields as low as they are (2% on 10-year bonds) nobody has a prayer at financial sustainability without going far out on the risk spectrum ‚Äì essentially all stocks, or all risky assets ‚Äì just to break even with a 4% or 5% draw.¬† I specifically did not consider forward-looking projections when arguing for the unsustainability of current endowment or retiree practices. We can‚Äôt see the future, I said, so I can‚Äôt predict.¬† All I can know is that you‚Äôve got to take a lot of risk if you want to stay sustainable, and that‚Äôs not very comfortable for most of us. I was pleased to see a more sophisticated presentation of this idea, which actually makes a mathematical and credible case for low future return expectations.¬† Basically, their conclusion is the same, only their math is better. The Economist via Bankers Anonymous¬†The embedded picture is explained best by the Economist, but I‚Äôll try to express it as well, to save you the click-through. A quantitative strategist at hedge fund AQR Group built this picture, which purports to show the expected real return of a 60/40 stock/bond portfolio available today. Equity returns are calculated by averaging: 1. The Earnings/Price ratio of a broad basket of stocks[1] and 2. Dividend yield plus 1.5% (to allow for long-run growth.)¬† Bond returns are calculated as the difference between 10 year US Treasury bond yields and inflation expectations. All of these are totally reasonable ways of calculating expected future real returns based on a 60/40 stock/bond mix.¬† The picture we get, according to AQR, is that real return on assets may be reasonably projected as the lowest in over 100 years, at somewhere below 3%. I‚Äôm left pretty worried for retirees and endowment managers drawing 4% and 5% from their principal every year.¬† [1] Specifically the inverse of the Shiller P/E.¬† Don‚Äôt ask me,Wikipedia it yourself. Post read (107) times. "Thanks for visiting Bankers Anonymous. Be sure to sign-up for my newsletter so you never miss what's happening on my site. You can also connect with me on Facebook and Twitter to keep the conversation going."
Scott Moore via flickr It wasn't too long ago when everyone was totally freaking out about the sequester -- the $85 billion of federal budget cuts that were scheduled to take effect. One of the biggest concerns was that huge job cuts would rip through the economy. But with the sequester now in play, many people are scratching their heads wondering what happened to those cuts. Today's initial jobless claims report was expected to get hit.¬† And while the claims number did tick up, it wasn't all that bad. Mesirow Financial economist Diane Swonk tweeted: "Sequestration still not showing as layoffs; key will be if it shows up as loss in hours worked" This latter point was something that UBS's U.S. economist team has been stressing since the beginning of the year. Here's UBS's Maury Harris: ...Our public sector employment projections are very much under various job loss estimates stemming from the $85 billion Federal spending sequester in fiscal 2013. The major flaw in sequester- related government job loss estimates is that they typically are generated by simply dividing spending cuts by average wages and salaries for Federal workers. However, the sequester instead is being implemented primarily through furloughs entailing one- or two-day drops in the monthly workweek per worker. Such furloughs ‚Äúspread the pain‚Äù and do not entail major headcount cuts. To think companies will just axe jobs is a bit too simplistic. Still, fewer hours worked will nevertheless have an unfavorable impact on the economy.
The latest weekly initial unemployment claims report is out, and it's a bit worse than expected. Claims climbed to 352,000 from 348,000 a week ago. Economists were looking for a reading of 350,000. While disappointing, there was nothing too worrisome about the report. Some may actually be encouraged by the fact that claims are increasingly being impacted by the sequester. In other words, people are glad things aren't any worse. U.S. stock market futures are up slightly. "The claims series has proven to be an excellent directional indicator for equities," said Jim O'Sullivan of High Frequency Economics. Here's a chart we've seen frequently: High Frequency Economics
We come together as Americans when confronting common disasters and common threats, such as occurred in Boston on Monday, but we continue to split apart economically. Anyone who wants to understand the dis-uniting of America needs to see how dramatically weíre segregating geographically by income and wealth. Today Iím giving a Town Hall talk in Fresno, in the center of Californiaís Central Valley,†where the official unemployment rate is 15.4 percent and median family earns under $40,000. The so-called ìrecoveryî is barely in evidence. As the crow flies Fresno is not that far from Californiaís high-tech enclaves of Google, Intel, Facebook, and Apple, or from the entertainment capital of Hollywood, but they might as well be different worlds.†Being wealthy in modern America means you donít come across anyone who isnít, and being poor and lower-middle class means youíre surrounded by others who are just as hard up. Upward mobility ó the old notion that anyone can make it with enough guts and gumption ó is less of a reality. The†probability that a poor child†in America will become a poor adult is higher now than it was 30 years ago, and higher in the United States than in the United Kingdom, which has a long history of class rigidity.†Almost 1 out of 4 of the nationís children†is in now in poverty, but you wouldnít know that in Washington, where our representatives are now busily cutting safety nets children depend on, or in many state capitals that continue to slash budgets for education and social services. Many of Americaís wealthy donít see why they should pay more taxes to support the less advantaged because they have no idea what it means to be less advantaged, while many in Americaís middle class canít afford to pay more because their real wages continue to decline. Our thoughts turn to Boston ó as they should. But Fresno and other places like it across America remain ignored. Read more posts on Contributor ª
REUTERS/Mike StoneA damaged vehicle is seen after an explosion at a fertilizer plant in the town of West, near Waco, Texas early April 18, 2013. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Earnings after adjustments came in at $0.61 per share. Analysts were looking for a bottom line profit of $0.56 per share.¬† Last year, they reported a loss of $0.06. Adjusted revenue came in at $8.48 billion, which was ahead of the $8.35 billion expected.¬† This is up from $6.94 billion a year ago. The primary adjustment that was made were the negative revenue related to changes in Morgan Stanley‚Äôs debt-related credit spreads and other credit factors (i.e. Debt Valuation Adjustment, DVA).¬† When the perceived risk of Morgan Stanley's debt comes down, these spreads become tighter which translates to negative revenue. The stock initially rallied on the report. But now it's in the red. "Looking forward, while the global environment continues to have moments of fragility, we believe the broad economic outlook for the next several years is stronger than in the recent past," said CEO James Gorman.
Stock market futures are moving up ahead of the U.S. trading session. Dow futures are up 47 points. S&amp;P 500 futures are up 4.5 points. Nasdaq futures are up 8.7 points. This comes after yesterday's ugly stock market sell-off. Later this morning, we'll get the initial jobless claims and Philly Fed manufacturing reports.¬† This will give us a sense of whether or not the economy is heading for another spring slowdown. Here's a look at Dow futures today. FinViz
bitzcelt / FlickrThe bulk of the economic data in recent weeks have suggested that the economy is slowing down again. Economists are wondering if we are heading into yet another spring slowdown. The latest reads on the economy will come later this morning. Here's a preview from Calculated Risk's Bill McBride: Thursday economic releases: ï At 8:30 AM ET, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for claims to increase to 347 thousand from 346 thousand last week. The "sequester" budget cuts might be starting to impact weekly claims. ï At 10:00 AM, the Philly Fed manufacturing survey for April. The consensus is for a reading of minus 3.3, up from 2.0 last month (above zero indicates expansion). ï At 1:00 PM, Speech by Fed Governor Sarah Bloom Raskin, Reflections on Inequality and the Recent Business Cycle, At the 22nd Annual Hyman P. Minsky Conference on the State of the U.S. and World Economies, New York, New York
Staying with the theme of bearish sentiment in commodity markets, crude oil came under severe pressure recently. Based on today's data, US crude inventory actually declined last week, surprising some forecasters who expected crude stocks to continue rising. One would expect lower inventories to result in higher prices, but that did not occur.  Instead WTI futures took a 2% hit today, reaching a 10-month low.  Here are some of the explanations from market participants for these violent moves to the downside: 1. Weaker than expected growth in China has precipitated a negative sentiment in commodity markets (see discussion). 2. Major commodity investors such as hedge funds have been unwinding positions. 3. Today we saw what could amount to weaker than expected demand for gasoline in the US, as more drivers stay home. 4. The non-OPEC crude oil production, particularly out of North America continues to surprise. The Deutsche Bank chart below, showing North Dakota's oil production, is giving some long oil investors a pause for concern (in some cases nightmares). DB: - The latest production data out of North Dakota, home to the prolific Bakken shale, reflects the strength of US production as output hit a record 780kbd in February after dipping in January as cold weather hindered operations. Production in the state is up nearly 40% YTD. According to Lynn Helms, Director of North Dakota‚Äôs Department of Mineral Resources, the state is likely to reach 800kbd in May once weather conditions improve. Helms also said the state is on track to reach production of 850kbd by early 2014. We note that if North Dakota‚Äôs production averages about 800kbd this year, which would be up from last year‚Äôs average production rate of 663kbd, this would be equal to over 70% of non-OPEC‚Äôs estimated total supply growth for this year, according to the IEA. All this is good news from the Fed's perspective, giving the central bank incremental room for monetary expansion. It's unclear where the Fed-induced bubble will show up, but for now it's not in commodities.
en.wikipedia.orgA scary head-and-shoulders pattern could be building in the S&amp;P 500, and this negative chart formation would be created if the market stalls just above current levels. "It's developing and it's developing fast," said Scott Redler of T3Live.com on Wednesday morning. Redler follows the short-term technicals of the market, and he says the head and shoulders should be proven either way in the next few trading days. "Anticipating this type of pattern has been painful this year," he said. The head and shoulders is seen by technicians as a signal of more selling to come. "The bears are hanging their hat on the idea that this bounce back will lead to a lower high, potentially a right shoulder that continues in the 1575 area," said Redler, describing the pattern after Tuesday's close. "The first pullback of the year was March 20 with the Italian election. The left shoulder was built during the month of March, with the peak being around 1573. Then you had a head when it hit its high at 1597." CNBC † Redler said if the pattern forms, the measured move from 1597, or the head, to the neckline would be take it to 1538-1542. The S&amp;P could then move down to 1490-1510. A pivot point could then be 1472. The S&amp;P 500 slumped 1.5 percent, falling below 1550 Wednesday. It had rebounded Tuesday to 1574, a 22 point or 1.4 percent gain, in a strong reversal after Monday's 2.3-percent decline. "The right shoulder which started to form yesterday is still in the process. It might not bust through the neckline today or tomorrow but you can see by the chart is it's getting clearly defined," said Redler. The big market swings reignited the debate about whether stocks will pull back with a decent size correction before moving higher again.The market is also awaiting further news on the Boston Marathon bombings, which sent an already down market to a steep decline Monday. (See More: Scenes From the Boston Marathon Bombing) "I do think what we've seen is a corrective bounce, one that can continue but I don't think it's going to take out the highs that we have made,"" said McNeil Curry, global head of technical strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. "I don't think we're going to see a push north of (S&amp;P)1597. I think we're going to see new lows before that. I think we could see the 1537/1525 zone. That's the big support level to watch," he said. Curry also said the move in the VIX, which jumped 43 percent Monday, was significant. The VIX is the Chicago Board of Options Exchange's Volatility Index and it is seen as a measure of market expectations for near term volatility. "Historically when that happens, when you get that kind of move, it often leads to a period of consolidation and then you get a bigger 'risk off' period to follow," Curry said. The VIX, or fear indicator, declined 19 percent Tuesday to 13.96. Paul LaRosa, market technician at Maxim Group, said the market is far from heading toward a bear market. But he too sees a pullback. "We're a little cautious because we hit our price target. I don't see the type of big gains that happened in the first quarter happening in the second quarter," he said. "It's too hard to say whether this is a major top. I don' think it is." "The probabilities favor that this market will bounce around in the upper 14,000 to 15,000 area (on the Dow) for the next couple of weeks," he said. "On the S&amp;P, it could probably hit a top around 1600. I don't think it could go much higher than that and probably you could dip to 1525." (Read More: Stocks Have FlippedóLook for More Downside) LaRosa expects the market to follow the seasonal pattern of the last three years, where a sell off began in April. "Maybe the summer is the time to buy if we come down to the round numbers of 14,000 and 1500 on the Dow and S&amp;P," he said. Redler said so far the market has been helped this year by investors who step in and buy the dips. Tuesday "was an impressive move. It seems like every time we get a big engulfing down day, where prudent traders take off risk to see if there's going to be follow through, the market doesn't have downside follow through," he said. "I think both bulls and bears are walking cautiously here,"he said. "There's a big time lack of euphoria even with high prices, which some would say is a reason we are going higher."
BOSTON (AP) ‚Äî In what could be a major break in the Boston Marathon case, investigators are on the hunt for a man seen in a department store surveillance video dropping off a bag at the site of the bombings, a local politician said Wednesday. Separately, a law enforcement official confirmed that authorities have found an image of a potential suspect but don't know his name. The development ‚Äî less than 48 hours after the attack, which left three people dead and more than 170 wounded ‚Äî marked a possible turning point in a case that has investigators analyzing photos and videos frame by frame for clues to who carried out the twin bombings and why. City Council President Stephen Murphy, who said he was briefed by Boston police, said investigators saw the image on surveillance footage they got from a department store near the finish line and matched the findings with witness descriptions of someone leaving the scene. "I know it's very active and very fluid right now ‚Äî that they are on the chase," Murphy said. He added: "They may be on the verge of arresting someone, and that's good." The bombs were crudely fashioned from ordinary kitchen pressure cookers packed with explosives, nails and ball bearings, investigators and others close to the case said. Investigators suspect the devices were then hidden in black duffel bags and left on the ground. As a result, they were looking for images of someone lugging a dark, heavy bag. One department store video "has confirmed that a suspect is seen dropping a bag near the point of the second explosion and heading off," Murphy said. A law enforcement official who was not authorized to discuss the case publicly and spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity confirmed only that investigators had an image of a potential suspect whose name was not known to them and who had not been questioned. Several media outlets reported that a suspect had been identified from surveillance video taken at a Lord &amp; Taylor department store between the sites of the bomb blasts. The turn of events came with Boston in a state of high excitement over conflicting reports of a breakthrough. A law enforcement official briefed on the investigation told the AP around midday that a suspect was in custody. The official, who was not authorized to divulge details of the investigation and spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the suspect was expected in federal court. But the FBI and the U.S. attorney's office in Boston said no arrests had been made. By nightfall, there was no evidence anyone was in custody. No one was taken to court. The law enforcement official, who had affirmed there was a suspect in custody even after federal officials denied it, was unable to obtain any further information or explanation. At least 14 bombing victims, including three children, remained in critical condition. Dozens of victims have been released from hospitals, and officials at three hospitals that treated some of the most seriously injured said they expected all their remaining patients to survive. A 2-year-old boy with a head injury was improving and might go home Thursday, Boston Children's Hospital said. On Wednesday, investigators in white jumpsuits fanned out across the streets, rooftops and awnings around the blast site in search of clues. They picked through trash cans, plastic cup sleeves and discarded sports drink dispensers. Boston remained under a heavy security presence, and some people admitted they were nervous about moving about in public spaces. Tyler King, a personal trainer from Attleboro who works in Boston, said four of five clients canceled on him a day earlier because they were worried about venturing into the city. He took the train in, but "I kind of kept my head on a swivel." Kenya Nadry, a website designer, took her 5-year-old nephew to a playground. "There's still some sense of fear, but I feel like Boston's resilient," she said. "The fine men in blue will take care of a lot of it." Police were stationed on street corners across downtown Boston, while National Guardsmen set up tents on the Boston Common and stationed tactical vehicles. Dr. Horacio Hojman, associate chief of trauma at Tufts Medical Center, said patients were in surprisingly good spirits when they were brought in. "Despite what they witnessed, despite what they suffered, despite many of them having life-threatening injuries, their spirits were not broken," he said. "And I think that should probably be the message for all of us ‚Äî that this horrible act of terror will not bring us down." President Barack Obama and his challenger in the last election, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, planned to visit Boston on Thursday to attend a service honoring the victims. Obama signed an emergency declaration for Massachusetts on Wednesday and ordered federal aid to supplement the local response to the bombings. The blasts killed 8-year-old Martin Richard, of Boston, 29-year-old Krystle Campbell, of Medford, and Lu Lingzi, a Boston University graduate student from China. ___ Associated Press writers Jay Lindsay, Pat Eaton-Robb, Steve LeBlanc, Bridget Murphy and Meghan Barr in Boston; Eileen Sullivan, Julie Pace and Lara Jakes in Washington; and Marilynn Marchione in Milwaukee contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
pedro_qtc / FlickrMarkets are up early in the European trading session. England's FTSE 100 is up 0.3%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.8%. Germany's DAX is up 0.5%. Spain's IBEX 35 is up 0.8%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.8%. This ends a four-day losing streak in the region. U.S. futures are up modestly.
A massive explosion at a fertilizer plant has devastated a small Texas community. The blast, which occurred just under an hour after a fire, was felt miles away. "It was like a nuclear bomb went off," said West Mayor Tommy Muska to CNN. Here's amateur footage of the moment of the blast. It occurs just after 30 seconds into the video. 
