BARACK OBAMA will soon make one of the biggest economic decisions of his presidency: who should replace Ben Bernanke as chairman of the Federal Reserve. Since America‚Äôs monetary decisions reverberate far beyond its borders, the world has an interest in having the best person in that job. The good news is that, for all the political circus that has surrounded the decision, Mr Obama is choosing from excellent candidates. The two leading contenders--Larry Summers, a former treasury secretary and presidential adviser, and Janet Yellen, the Fed‚Äôs current vice-chairman--are both top-notch economists with years of relevant experience (see "The Federal Reserve: Dove v dove"). Mr Obama is said to be leaning towards Mr Summers. This newspaper would (narrowly) plump for Ms Yellen. Although Mr Summers is cleverer, she is better suited to this job now. For decades the art of monetary policy has been to control inflation and counter recessions by pushing short-term interest rates up or down. Now weak growth, not inflation, is the biggest challenge, and the Fed has to rely on less tested and more controversial tools, such as bond-buying. The next chairman will need the judgment to navigate this new world and persuade financial markets (and sceptical politicians) that the central bank knows what it is doing. Both Ms Yellen and Mr Summers are "doves", rightly worrying more about economic weakness than any threat from inflation, but it is clearer how Ms Yellen would go about putting her views into practice. As the Fed‚Äôs vice-chairman she has pushed the current set of unconventional policies, from bond-buying to "forward guidance". Under her leadership the central bank would influence market expectations with even more detail around its future plans. Her public demeanour would be much like Mr Bernanke‚Äôs: technocratic and based on meticulous command of the data. Her cautious, consensus-building approach would minimise surprises (and financial-market volatility) as the current chairman has. Mr Summers has a less clearly articulated approach to monetary policy and more political baggage. He has said little in public about how central banks can best support economies when short-term rates are at zero. Judging by his record in other areas, he is likely to push for creative solutions but to prefer not to have the Fed‚Äôs hands tied by promises about its future direction. The chances are that a Summers Fed would be even bolder, but less predictable, than the Bernanke Fed. Mr Summers‚Äôs dazzling intellect would make for bravura public performances, but he would be more likely to unsettle the markets with unscripted comments and to alienate both other Fed governors and lawmakers. The Fed has had "maestro-style" leadership before, notably under Alan Greenspan. That seemed fine, then, but these days the Fed uses more experimental tools, depends more on influencing expectations and has shallower political support. Transparency, predictability and consensus-building therefore matter more than they used to. Mr Bernanke‚Äôs low-key leadership has made it easier for him to be radical. Ms Yellen would probably take a similar approach. The Fed‚Äôs other big task is to prevent (and, if need be, manage) crises. Here Mr Summers seems stronger. Ms Yellen delivered early warnings about the credit crunch and now helps oversee the Fed‚Äôs crisis-fighting machinery. But she has no practical experience of handling a big financial mess and no first-hand knowledge of financial markets. In 2008 she was president of the San Francisco Fed, far away from the frantic efforts to stop a global meltdown. The vilification of Mr Summers for favouring financial deregulation in the 1990s is grossly unfair: much of what he proposed was quite sensible, and the link between those decisions and the financial crisis is weak. He clearly has the upper hand in terms of crisis-management experience, having been at the centre of almost every global financial flare-up since Mexico‚Äôs near-default in 1994. The difference between the two is small. Supporters of Mr Summers argue that the administration would be making a big mistake if it did not employ the brightest policy-minded economist in a generation with unparalleled experience of dealing with financial trouble. They are right. If Mr Obama really wants the best people in place, he should replace his uninspiring treasury secretary, Jack Lew, with Mr Summers. It is a job that Mr Summers did superbly for Bill Clinton and which plays more clearly to his strengths. Making the switch would require uncommon decisiveness from a president who is loth to change personnel. But Ms Yellen at the Fed and Mr Summers at the Treasury would make a first-rate team. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
BARACK OBAMA will soon make one of the biggest economic decisions of his presidency: who should replace Ben Bernanke as chairman of the Federal Reserve. Since America‚Äôs monetary decisions reverberate far beyond its borders, the world has an interest in having the best person in that job. The good news is that, for all the political circus that has surrounded the decision, Mr Obama is choosing from excellent candidates. The two leading contenders--Larry Summers, a former treasury secretary and presidential adviser, and Janet Yellen, the Fed‚Äôs current vice-chairman--are both top-notch economists with years of relevant experience (see "The Federal Reserve: Dove v dove"). Mr Obama is said to be leaning towards Mr Summers. This newspaper would (narrowly) plump for Ms Yellen. Although Mr Summers is cleverer, she is better suited to this job now. For decades the art of monetary policy has been to control inflation and counter recessions by pushing short-term interest rates up or down. Now weak growth, not inflation, is the biggest challenge, and the Fed has to rely on less tested and more controversial tools, such as bond-buying. The next chairman will need the judgment to navigate this new world and persuade financial markets (and sceptical politicians) that the central bank knows what it is doing. Both Ms Yellen and Mr Summers are "doves", rightly worrying more about economic weakness than any threat from inflation, but it is clearer how Ms Yellen would go about putting her views into practice. As the Fed‚Äôs vice-chairman she has pushed the current set of unconventional policies, from bond-buying to "forward guidance". Under her leadership the central bank would influence market expectations with even more detail around its future plans. Her public demeanour would be much like Mr Bernanke‚Äôs: technocratic and based on meticulous command of the data. Her cautious, consensus-building approach would minimise surprises (and financial-market volatility) as the current chairman has. Mr Summers has a less clearly articulated approach to monetary policy and more political baggage. He has said little in public about how central banks can best support economies when short-term rates are at zero. Judging by his record in other areas, he is likely to push for creative solutions but to prefer not to have the Fed‚Äôs hands tied by promises about its future direction. The chances are that a Summers Fed would be even bolder, but less predictable, than the Bernanke Fed. Mr Summers‚Äôs dazzling intellect would make for bravura public performances, but he would be more likely to unsettle the markets with unscripted comments and to alienate both other Fed governors and lawmakers. The Fed has had "maestro-style" leadership before, notably under Alan Greenspan. That seemed fine, then, but these days the Fed uses more experimental tools, depends more on influencing expectations and has shallower political support. Transparency, predictability and consensus-building therefore matter more than they used to. Mr Bernanke‚Äôs low-key leadership has made it easier for him to be radical. Ms Yellen would probably take a similar approach. The Fed‚Äôs other big task is to prevent (and, if need be, manage) crises. Here Mr Summers seems stronger. Ms Yellen delivered early warnings about the credit crunch and now helps oversee the Fed‚Äôs crisis-fighting machinery. But she has no practical experience of handling a big financial mess and no first-hand knowledge of financial markets. In 2008 she was president of the San Francisco Fed, far away from the frantic efforts to stop a global meltdown. The vilification of Mr Summers for favouring financial deregulation in the 1990s is grossly unfair: much of what he proposed was quite sensible, and the link between those decisions and the financial crisis is weak. He clearly has the upper hand in terms of crisis-management experience, having been at the centre of almost every global financial flare-up since Mexico‚Äôs near-default in 1994. The difference between the two is small. Supporters of Mr Summers argue that the administration would be making a big mistake if it did not employ the brightest policy-minded economist in a generation with unparalleled experience of dealing with financial trouble. They are right. If Mr Obama really wants the best people in place, he should replace his uninspiring treasury secretary, Jack Lew, with Mr Summers. It is a job that Mr Summers did superbly for Bill Clinton and which plays more clearly to his strengths. Making the switch would require uncommon decisiveness from a president who is loth to change personnel. But Ms Yellen at the Fed and Mr Summers at the Treasury would make a first-rate team. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
The national average price of gasoline is at its lowest level in at least two years. "As the Labor Day weekend approaches, the U.S. national average retail price for regular gasoline has fallen 13 cents per gallon below the apparent summer peak of $3.68 per gallon, reached on July 22," said the EIA. Here's a map from the EIA showing those prices at the county level across the U.S. EIA
At the beginning of the year, gas prices were surging at an usually high clip. But the summer has now come and gone and in hindsight, gas prices were quite tame. "As the Labor Day weekend approaches, the U.S. national average retail price for regular gasoline has fallen 13 cents per gallon below the apparent summer peak of $3.68 per gallon, reached on July 22," noted the Energy Information Association. "Last Monday, August 26, it was $3.55 per gallon, despite an increase in crude oil prices since early July. At $3.55 per gallon, the average U.S. retail price for regular gasoline is 19 cents below last year's price at that time and 3 cents below the level in 2011 leading into the holiday weekend." "According to the American Automobile Association, gasoline prices were $3.59 per gallon August 29." Check out the chart: EIA
On the one side, you have Robert Gordon of Northwestern University who says that growth is dead, innovation can‚Äôt sustain its recent rapid pace and we‚Äôre due for a massive trend reversal here in the coming years. ‚ÄúThe US economy has been expanding wildly for two centuries. Are we witnessing the end of growth? Economist Robert Gordon lays out 4 reasons US growth may be slowing, detailing factors like epidemic debt and growing inequality, which could move the US into a period of stasis we can‚Äôt innovate our way out of.‚Äù On the bull side, you have¬†Erik Brynjolfsson of MIT who says Gordon is wrong and that our best years are likely ahead of us. ‚ÄúAs machines take on more jobs, many find themselves out of work or with raises indefinitely postponed. Is this the end of growth? No, says Erik Brynjolfsson ‚Äî it‚Äôs simply the growing pains of a radically reorganized economy. A riveting case for why big innovations are ahead of us ‚Ä¶ if we think of computers as our teammates.‚Äù As a long-term optimist, you can probably guess who I agree with, but who cares about my opinion. ¬†What do you think and why?
Flickr / BeauGilesOver the last 10 days the Internet has been abuzz with stories of lenders using social media data to determine credit scores. All of a sudden our usage of reputable outlets like Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn has been thrust into the discussion, unnecessarily. Your Tweets, Friends, and connections are not being used by U.S lenders to determine your risk and are not influencing your credit scores. The theory behind the use of social media data as a risk evaluation tool can best be described as ‚Äúbirds of a feather flock together.‚Äù The argument made by some companies is that people who pay their bills on time tend to connect with other people who pay their bills on time. Conversely, they argue that people who miss payments tend to connect with others who miss payments. This ‚Äúbirds of a feather‚Äù notion doesn‚Äôt seem like a solid hypothesis. I‚Äôm sure all of us know people who pay their bills on time and also people who mismanage their credit. And we‚Äôre probably connected to each type via our social networking. Besides, how many people tweet that they‚Äôve just missed a payment on their car loan? ‚ÄúEmpirically derived and statistically and demonstrably sound.‚Äù¬† Those are the requirements for any scoring model to be used by lenders in the United States thanks to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. What all of that means, in English, is that a scoring system used by lenders has to have been built using an empirical process and that it has to actually work. U.S lenders cannot use what‚Äôs referred as an ‚Äúexpert model.‚Äù An expert model is built using non-scientific methods based on the developer‚Äôs best guesses or assumptions. So, for example, just because we may strongly believe late payments are predictive of future credit risk it still must be proven to be predictive in order for it to be considered by a credit scoring system. Let‚Äôs just say, for argument‚Äôs sake, that social media activity was actually predictive of credit risk and COULD be used as a basis for your credit scores. At that point scoring models would scour the web looking for your activity and then gin a score that would be used by lenders to determine approvals, denials and interest rates. Those wouldn‚Äôt be credit scores, however. Credit scores only consider information on your credit reports and your tweets and friend list do not appear on your credit reports. The scores based on social media data would have to be called something else, like social media credit risk scores, or something similar. The very small list of lenders that claim to underwrite loans based on social media data either do not do business in the United States or use traditional credit scores, additionally, as a basis for their decision. There is no U.S lender that‚Äôs granting or denying credit solely based on social media information, yet. As with most things related to the evaluation of credit risk, there‚Äôs always an attempt to manipulate and control the system. For credit reports it‚Äôs credit repair (attempting to get accurate but negative information removed from your credit report) and piggybacking (paying someone to be added as an authorized user on their credit card). With credit report data it‚Äôs difficult to game the system because we don‚Äôt really control what goes on our credit reports. The same cannot be said for social media information. We are in complete control over all of our connections in the social media world. We can choose how often we post messages, what we say, and with whom we interact. Point being, if someday social media data is used for measuring credit risk, then we would be able to easily game the system because of our complete control over the system. John Ulzheimer¬†is the Credit Expert at¬†CreditSesame.com, and a credit blogger atSmartCredit.com,¬†Mint.com, and the¬†National Foundation for Credit Counseling.¬† He is an expert on credit reporting, credit scoring and identity theft. Formerly of FICO, Equifax and Credit.com, John is the only recognized credit expert who actually comes from the credit industry. The opinions expressed in his articles are his and not of Mint.com or Intuit.¬†You can follow John on Twitter¬†here.
Courtesy of EdmistonFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. A Morgan Stanley Advisor Came Up With A Great Marketing Idea (Think Advisor)  Unlike advisors who take to emails and newsletters to draw in new clients, Robert Gilman, an advisor with Morgan Stanley, decided to head to the Hamptons. From Think Advisor: "Robert Gilman, who caters to ultra high-net-worth families and privately held companies, sponsored the Shelter Island Shuttle Co., a local tender service that transports customers from their yachts anchored in the bay directly to Sunset Beach on Shelter Island, located in the Hamptons. Without any docks nearby, small tenders are the only way to easily reach the beach... "Gilman, who has lived in East Hampton for 20 years, said the advertising opportunity was perfect for his practice. ‚ÄúShelter Island is a special place,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúAdvertising to that market, those with yachts going to the island, is perfect." Clients Need To Be Reminded Of The Time-Period-Dependent Nature Of Fund Performance¬† (Vanguard) Clients often focus on a fund's short-term performance instead of their benchmarks, according to Vanguard. This "presents an opportunity for advisors to remind clients of the time-period-dependent nature of fund performance and, more important, of the need for clients to maintain confidence in their financial plans, pointing out the role these investments can play in a portfolio over the long term." "Market cyclicality can distort relative performance in the short term, and even active managers with outstanding historical records underperform at times. Putting performance into context is imperative, as is understanding how a fund's investment style and objective might fare in different market environments." Investors Are Dumping Emerging Markets At An Accelerating Pace (Morgan Stanley) The bloodbath in emerging markets continued this week with investors decreasing their exposure to all emerging markets, especially Asia. "Emerging Markets debt-dedicated funds recorded net outflows of $2,013MM (0.84% AUM) for the week ending on August 28, 2013, reports EPFR," said Morgan Stanley's Robert Habib.¬† "Outflows increased for the third consecutive week and were the highest since they peaked late in June at nearly $6bn (2.2% of AUM). The total outflows since these commenced late in May now amount to $22.4bn. In line with the large outflows, prices of EM-dedicated funds extended their negative trend and fell 0.72% during the week." Here's a longer-term look at EM bond fund flows: Morgan Stanley Perks Won't Help You Retain Clients (The Wall Street Journal) Often in the wealth management industry, clients as for perks. Wall Street Journal contributor Norb Vonnegut writes there are three kinds of perks. First is what he calls "payola" this includes fancy dinners, concert tickets and so on. "There is no long-term advantage to showering these clients with freebies. The requests keep coming. ‚Ä¶And more often than not, these clients disappear when they find advisers with lower fees and bigger expense accounts elsewhere."¬† Then there's the "rubber-chicken circuit" the kind that ask advisors to support their charities. He doesn't see long-term value in these either. Finally there's the "game of clones." "Like the kings and queens in Game of Thrones, financial advisers are duking it out for the big-prize clients instead of kingdoms. And nobody wins by being a me-too player." Considering this, Vonnegut writes that advisors should dish out on the client-perk if they're worth the expense. A fishing trip for instance is worth it because it gets an advisor one-on-one face-time with the client. But, "financial acumen and reliable investment returns are the only proven way to keep clients. It's that simple." GARY SHILLING: I'm Tilting Towards These 7 Risk-Off Trades (A Gary Shilling Insights) With concerns about a Fed taper and China slowdown on the one hand, and with Europe emerging from a recession and growth returning to Japan, the global economic outlook is mixed at best. With that in mind, Gary Shilling has seven investment themes that "tilt toward 'risk-off,'" writes Shilling.¬† 1." Long treasury bonds, but modestly." 2. "Short commodities in view of continuing declines in commodity prices as well as the slide in Chinese growth and the quenching of her thirst for commodity imports." 3. "Long the dollar." 4. "Short commodity-exporter currencies, especially the Australian dollar." 5. "Short emerging market stocks and bonds." 6. "Short U.S. homebuilders." 7. "Short the U.S. stock market, but modestly." Shilling continues to be cautious and advocates "heavy cash positions."
Chip Somodevilla /Getty ImagesNew York mayoral candidate Joe Lhota (R)The next mayor of New York, if he or she is to do a good job, will have to say ‚Äúno‚Äù a lot. ‚ÄúNo‚Äù to public employee unions who want a retroactive raise the city can‚Äôt afford. ‚ÄúNo‚Äù to city councilmembers who will try to spend every tax dollar that comes in instead of rebuilding the city‚Äôs reserve funds. ‚ÄúNo‚Äù to NIMBYs who don‚Äôt want anything new built in their neighborhoods. ‚ÄúNo‚Äù to commuters seeking relief from fare increases, bridge tolls, parking fines, and an alleged ‚Äúwar on cars.‚Äù Today, Dan Amira¬†gave the candidates a ‚Äúno‚Äù test, and only Republican Joe Lhota passed it. The question was: Would you shut down two subway lines for 90 minutes to save a couple of kittens who are loose on the tracks, as NYC Transit did yesterday? Christine Quinn said she would. Bill Thompson said he would ‚Äúwork‚Äù to save the kittens. Anthony Weiner said he wouldn‚Äôt just shut down the subway, he‚Äôd personally crawl across the third rail to rescue them. John Catsimatidis submitted a few noncommittal lines of poetry. It‚Äôs a microcosm of this whole campaign, in which the candidates run around making big promises with no apparent acknowledgment of the city‚Äôs tight finances, or of the fact that policy choices involve trade-offs, or even of the mayor's lack of control over certain policy areas, like income taxation, rent control, and anything the MTA does. Yes, the candidates say, I‚Äôll save the kitties, I'll make the Wall Street fat cats pay for it, and I‚Äôll give you a middle-class tax cut while I do it. Only Lhota gave the correct answer: No, you do not strand thousands of New Yorkers for 90 minutes in a futile effort to herd two cats whose lives we are inexplicably prioritizing over the rats who are run over, or drowned, or exterminated in the subways every day. The most terrifying aspect of this campaign is that New York is poised to elect its first non-asshole mayor since Abe Beame. There‚Äôs a reason big cities elect mayors like Mike Bloomberg and Rudy Giuliani and Rahm Emanuel and Richard Daley and Ed Rendell. The mayor‚Äôs main job is to say ‚Äúno.‚Äù Those guys are good at saying ‚Äúno.‚Äù Lhota is the only person in the field who resembles them.
LendAcademyLendAcademyPeer-to-peer lending is sweeping the nation. The two biggest players in game, Lending Club and Prosper†saw 195% growth over the year ending in June 30,†generating more than $1.5 billion in loans. The timing is no coincidence. In the wake of the financial crisis, the same lenders that once rolled out the red carpet for subprime borrowers started putting up all sorts of barriers to credit, effectively locking out the people who arguably needed a boost the most. Those who could get credit were hit with double-digit interest rates or driven to seek out riskier options like payday loans.† "Clearly, there was a void in consumer financing and peer to peer lending helped fill that void," says Peter Renton, who publishes a P2P lending blog called Lend Academy. But, let's back up a minute here. What is peer-to-peer lending and why are investors going so nuts over it?† Here's a quick rundown: P2P lending sites bridge the gap between consumers who need a loan and consumers (i.e. investors) who have the money to back them. There are no banks or credit lenders to deal with, and the interest rates are generally much lower than borrowers would get otherwise, while investors supposedly get to grow their money much faster than in traditional savings vehicles. What does it take to qualify for a loan? † Since†Lending Club and Prosper†are the only big P2P players in the U.S., we'll focus on their qualifications. Before you even think about borrowing, you have to live in a state that allows it (28 states support Lending Club, 31 support Prosper). From that point, there's an application process for all interested borrowers, with qualifications varying slightly between the two sites.† Both sites require decent credit scores (640 to 660, minimum) for borrowers, which will determine one's interest rate and the risk grade they assign to a loan. Interest rates range between†6.03% and 26.03% for Lending Club and 6.04% and 31.34% for Prosper. The grade will tell investors how much risk they'll take on by lending. For example, a†grade†A loan will have a low interest rate and signal to investors that the borrower has a low risk of defaulting. Loans start as low as†as $1,000 or $2,000 and go up to $35,000 for each site. Loans are issued in three- or five-year term limits and borrowers must pay an origination fee (1.11% to 5% at†Lending Club, 0.5% to 4.95% for Prosper). They decide how much your fee will be based on your credit score. Unless you are late on payments, there are no other fees to worry about.† What does it take to invest?† To qualify as an investor, you have to prove you've got the goods to back up your loans. That means you either A) make $70,000 in†annual gross income and have a†net worth of at least $70,000, or B) have a net worth of more than $250,000. You can start investments in increments as small as $25. Investors don't pay anything to sign up but will pay 1% of their earnings per year. There are also taxes to worry about, since all gains are subject to federal income tax rates. There's a way to dodge that hurdle, however, by pumping your earnings into an IRA, where it can earn interest tax-free.†† Both sites offer options to open up an IRA with a minimum of $5,000. Before you decide to take that step, you'll likely want to review your options with a financial planner.† What's in it for investors?† If you've seen interest rates lately, that's all the answer you really need.†Super safe five-year U.S. Treasurys are yielding just over 1.5%, while high yield four-year junk bonds are averaging around 6.5%. Compare that to LendingClub, where three-year B1 loans (for borrowers with FICO scores above 720) are generating 10% average annual interest rates and it's easy to see the allure. Bien Stephenson / Flickr Sound too good to be true? Let's talk risk factors:† Liquidity is low you it's almost impossible to access your cash until the loan matures, and "unlike high-yield bonds, which sometimes recover some money in the event of a default, Prosper and Lending Club loans offer investors almost no chance of recovery," cautions the†WSJ's Joe Light. Both sites have low default rates, but you've got to remember they're both relatively young and those rates could swing over time. And a new problem has cropped up for P2P lenders lately ñ they're having a much harder time attracting borrowers than investors.† "In a move to attract more borrowers, Lending Club has lowered its average rate," reports LearnBonds.com's Marc Prosser. "The CEO of Lending Club, Renaud Laplanche, said he believed that on average rates would come down by 0.2%. While this was good news for borrowers, this doesnít look like good news for lenders."† In fact, now that hedge funds are starting to into the game, they have the potential to saturate the lending market so much that it dilutes yields for investors over time.† How to mitigate risk With due diligence you can somewhat tailor that risk to your level of tolerance. Both LendingTree and Prosper rate borrowers in a way that tells you exactly how risky lending to them would be. If you're looking for a stable investment with a low risk factor, chose a borrower with a low risk of default and a high rating. And if you've got cash to burn and really want to roll the dice, go with riskier loans.† Our advice: Use P2P loans as an alternative to a low-yield savings vehicle, not as a get rich quick scheme (unless you've got that kind of cash lying around, then by all means, go for it).† In a recent letter to subscribers, Renton says the most important question P2P investors can ask themselves is what kind of investor they are:† Will you take it personally if a borrower†you have invested in defaults on his or her loan?†If the idea of a default freaks you out then you should stick with the A-rated borrowers. The downside of choosing that route is that†you have can "only" achieve a maximum return of around 5-6%.†Now, in today's market you might be very satisfied with that kind of return.†But if you want to see if you can achieve 10% of more then you need†to invest in higher risk borrowers. And while you can still get†defaults from A-rated borrowers with C-, D- or E-rated borrowers†their†default rate†is much higher.†Unless you are very lucky you will receive many defaults with†higher risk borrowers. But with careful screening criteria†you can minimize the downside†risks. For investors, picking and choosing through thousands of different loans to invest in is where it gets tough. There are a few helpful resources out there can help you get started. We suggest downloading†Renton's excellent free e-book with beginner tips and thoroughly reviewing the FAQ for Prosper and Lending Club.†
From the American Chemistry Council: Leading Economic Indicator Shows U.S. Economy on the Upswing; Consumer-Driven Production Gains Strengthen The pendulum of the U.S. economy remains on the upswing, according to the American Chemistry Councilís (ACC) monthly Chemical Activity Barometer (CAB), released today. The economic indicator, shown to lead U.S. business cycles by an average of eight months at cycle peaks, increased 0.1 percent over July on a three-month moving average (3MMA) basis, marking its fourth consecutive monthly gain. The barometer is now up 3.8 percent over a year ago, the largest year-over-year increase since September 2010. The index itself is at its highest point since June 2008. Prior CAB readings for March through July were all revised. ìAs we approach the fourth quarter, the U.S. economy seems to be making strides, compared to the baby steps of earlier in the year,î said Dr. Kevin Swift, chief economist at the American Chemistry Council. ìThe Chemical Activity Barometer is showing a strengthening of year-over-year growth and suggests an economy which finally may be gaining momentum,î he added. This graph shows the year-over-year change in the 3-month moving average for the Chemical Activity Barometer compared to Industrial Production.† It does appear that CAB (red) generally leads Industrial Production (blue). And this suggests that economic activity is increasing. Calculated Risk
REUTERS/Daniel MunozA man reacts as a performer dressed in a Tyrannosaurus rex dinosaur costume walks next to him during a publicity event in central Sydney, August 28, 2013. The S&amp;P 500 fell ny 3.2% in August, making it the worst month since May 2012. But considering all of the geopolitical uncertainty, it could've been worse. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Jorge Paulo Lemann, the chief investor and strategist at 3G Capital, recently bought Heinz (along with Warren Buffett) to go along with two other American brands he controls:†Burger King and†Anheuser-Busch. If his name doesn't ring a bell, you're not alone. According to Bloomberg Businessweek's Alex Cuadros, the 74-year-old Brazilian is "virtually unknown" in the U.S., but his private equity group now controls three iconic brands worth a combined market value of $187 billion. Lemann himself refused to be interviewed by Businessweek. But Lemann, the richest man is Brazil, is wildly successful and well liked, according to the magazine: In Brazil, Lemann is a business-class hero. Heís the wiry, white-haired conglomerateur whoís part Buffett, part Sam Walton, part Roger Federer. (In his younger days he was a five-time Brazilian national tennis champion.) ìLemannî is shorthand for pitiless efficiency. And he's lived an interesting life. The entire article is worth reading, but here are a few key takeaways: Lemann was born in Rio de Janeiro, where he went to an American school and was voted most likely to succeed, even though he spent much of his time surfing and playing tennis. During a 2011 speech to a group of high school students in S„o Paulo, Lemann said he didn't like going to Harvard, where he was accepted in 1958. He said he didn't care for the weather and missed home so much he graduated with a bachelor's degree in only three years. In 1999, three of his children were victims of an attempted kidnapping in Brazil. The driver of their car was wounded when the kidnappers opened fire but the children remained unharmed. In fact, they still went to school that day and Lemann didn't miss any meetings. He avoids his company's products ó he didn't eat a Burger King sandwich until after purchasing the company. He liked that the company made money.† A one-time partner speculated that Lemann plans to use Heinz as an acquisition platform for a company like Pepsi.† The full article is available†here.†
This just in from Fox Business Network's senior correspondent Charlie Gasparino...† FBN NEWS: what a way to end a slow week on wall street: stevie cohen telling friends he's resigned to running a family office more at 330 FBN NEWS: SAC Capital expects all outside $ to leave the fund by years end Steve Cohen is now "resigned" to running a "family office" FBN330 U.S. prosecutors charged SAC†"with criminal responsibility for insider trading†offenses committed by numerous employees and made possible by†institutional practices that encouraged the widespread†solicitation and use of illegal inside information," the indictment stated. † Two of SAC's former portfolio managers have insider trading trials coming up in November.† The†SEC also civilly charged Cohen†last month with failing to supervise the two portfolio managers.† Cohen, 57, launched SAC in 1992. †The hedge fund employs about 900 people worldwide.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVEconomist Gary Shilling has for sometime now said, that he expects the "Grand Disconnect between robust security markets and subdued-at-best economic reality," to close. He believes the Fed taper could just be the shock that gets the ball rolling. Though the Fed still needs to clarify when it plans to begin tapering its monthly $85 billion bond buying program.† The global economic outlook is mixed at best. On one hand growth is slowing in China, strikes might be coming to Syria, and tightening is coming to the Fed's easy monetary policy. On the other hand, Europe is emerging from a recession ane growth returning to Japan on the other. In his latest Insights newsletter, Gary Shilling writes that their investment themes now "tilt toward risk-off." Here are the main investment themes: Shilling publishes his report every month, and here's what changed from last time. Shilling however continues to remain cautious and is advocating "heavy cash positions."
In the past year, Tesla's stock price has surged more than 400%. The market cap is currently †$20.17, $11 billion higher than Fiat's and half the size of General Motors. Considering the fact that very few people own Teslas ñ only about 20,000 will be delivered this year ñ that valuation is hard to justify, even for Musk. Musk recently told CNBC that the market was being very "generous" to Tesla.† "They're obviously giving us a lot of credit for future execution," Musk said. "So we will do our best to honor the faith the market has placed in us. I really feel the valuation we've gotten is more than we have any right to deserve honestly. I think we need to make sure we really knock the ball out of the park in the coming years." When asked how it felt to see the stock price tick upwards, Musk replied: "I†think the market goes through these periods of exuberance and depression...Our stock price is obviously far too high based on historical financials or even our current financials. So the value is very much based on what the future will be like." 
After spiking as Secretary of State John Kerry laid out the case that Syrian President Bashar Assad used chemical weapons, oil prices are back down again. That's after President Obama said he had not yet made a decision on whether to strike Syria and would consult Congress.¬† Brent fell as much as -1.24% to $113. Chart: Investing.com
APPresident Barack Obama said in an afternoon statement Friday that he is considering a "limited, narrow act" of military response in Syria, and said that its government's chemical-weapons attack is a "challenge to the world," according to a White House pool report. "We cannot accept a world where women and children and innocent civilians are gassed on a terrible scale," Obama said. Obama said that he has not yet made a final decision on how to proceed. He said that his military had provided a range of options. "We're not considering any open ended commitment. We're not considering any boots on the ground approach," Obama said, according to the pool report. Obama made the brief statement during a meeting with three world leaders ó†President Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia, Dalia Grybauskaite of Lithuania, and President Andris Berzinö of Latvia. Vice President Joe Biden also was at the meeting. Obama's remarks came after Secretary of State John Kerry's blistering statement earlier this afternoon, during which he called Syrian President Bashar al-Assad a "thug" and "murderer" and said he must be held accountable for a chemical-weapons attack earlier this month. The White House also released a declassified report detailing with "high confidence" the assessment that the Assad regime used chemical weapons against its people. According to the report, the chemical-weapons attack killed 1,429 people, including 426 children.† "We intercepted†communications involving a senior official intimately familiar with the offensive who confirmed†that chemical weapons were used by the regime on August 21 and was concerned with the U.N.inspectors obtaining evidence," the report read.
APSecretary of State John Kerry made the case that "thug" and "murderer" Bashar al-Assad must face retribution, as the White House released a report (see below) detailing its evidence on the Syrian government's use of chemical weapons last week. "Its findings are as clear as they are compelling," Kerry said of the report, adding that the credibility of the U.S. was at stake in responding. "... The intelligence community has high confidence." In his approximately 19-minute statement, Kerry said that at least 1,429 Syrians were killed in the chemical weapons attack, based on evidence gathered. The 1,429 included 426 children. Kerry's statement came as President Barack Obama continues to move ahead with plans for limited strikes in Syria, despite a lack of broad support from allies and a lack of Congressional authorization. Kerry said, however, that doing nothing was "not an option," and that there would be consequences if nothing was done ó particularly with other regimes who could be emboldened to use chemical weapons. "The primary question is no longer what do we know," Kerry said. "It is what are we in the world going to do about it?" On Thursday, Britain's House of Commons stunningly rejected Prime Minister David Cameron's motion for military action in Syria. France, however, is still prepared to go along with action. Kerry also assured a war-weary nation that intervention in Syria would not mirror recent occupations in Iraq and Afghanistan, or even the lesser-scale intervention in Libya in 2011. "American people are tired of war. Believe me, I am too. But fatigue does not absolve us of responsibility," Kerry said. Below is the full report of the U.S. government's declassified assessment of the Syrian government's use of chemical weapons: 08.30.2013++USG+Assessment+on+Syria (1) 
Google FinanceAs Secretary John Kerry spoke on the escalating conflict in Syria, markets dropped and then came back sharply. Market experts have generally been indifferent about Syria. "As to the speculation that an attack could be the tripwire to a sudden regional or, even, a semi-global war, there were more than a few skeptics," said UBS's Art Cashin about his conversations with traders. ¬†
The average American motorist needs to work just a little over nine minutes in order to pay for a gallon of regular gasoline these days, according to a special pre-Labor Day study just performed by GasBuddy. That is nearly twice the amount of time necessary to secure a gallon‚Äôs worth of fuel in 2000, but gasoline is less expensive for workers than it was in 2011 or 2012. GasBuddy looked at median household income data by county and compared those numbers to average prices for the same specific geography. On a national basis, the report concludes that the average consumer works some nine minutes and five seconds for the typical gallon of fuel purchased this Labor Day weekend. GasBuddyMinutes-to-work-per-gallon in 2012. The pace of gasoline price gains has outstripped income growth throughout the century. In 2000, for example, the average person needed to work a mere four minutes and 35 seconds in order to fund a U.S. gasoline purchase. On Labor Day 2000, the U.S. average for unleaded regular was just $1.52 gal, or more than $2 gal lower than motorists face for the upcoming holiday. Residents of Loudoun County, Virginia can boast the easiest route for filling up their tanks. Based on that county‚Äôs median household income, residents need only spend three minutes and 32 seconds on the job in order to buy local gasoline at the $3.62 gal average price tag. In fact, Virginia accounts for half of a top ten list of counties where fuel is most affordable based on income. Others making the top end of the list: Fairfax, Prince William, Arlington, and Stafford counties. On the flipside, not all Texas residents are beneficiaries of the 21st century oil boom. A GasBuddy ranking of the top ten most expensive counties (when measured against local income) finds four Lone Star counties in the mix: Brooks, La Salle, McMullen, and Hudspeth. Hudspeth County, Texas residents have to toil for nearly half an hour per motor fuel gallon, or 25 minutes and 54 seconds, GasBuddy concludes. Virginians and Texans alike might be jealous of those living in Douglas, Colorado 13 years ago. GasBuddyMinutes-to-work-per-gallon in 2013. Back in 2000, those residents only had to work for two minutes and 18 seconds to get their gallon. This year, that labor cost has ascended to four minutes and 13 seconds, or nearly twice what those Colorado residents paid 13 years ago. When people in Magoffin, Kentucky go to the pump this weekend, they probably won‚Äôt pause and reflect on how they need to put in about 22% less time for fuel than they did last year. Conversely, denizens of Camas, Idaho have to increase their work time by 16% from 2012 when they pay for contemporary gallons. Based on the county-specific data, there is a wide variation in how much of the workday is devoted to the next tank of gas. But on a year-to-year basis, we‚Äôre all working about the same amount of time when paying the U.S. average of $3.54 gal. GasBuddy analysts predict that retail gasoline prices are likely to slip lower in the last four months of 2013, which in combination with stable incomes should decrease the amount of time necessary to purchase a gallon of fuel for the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays. Most of the gasoline price attrition through the remainder of the year will be attributable to relaxed gasoline specifications that make it easier to manufacture motor fuel after September 15.
NEW YORK (AP) ‚Äî Days of finding a quarter under your pillow are long gone. The Tooth Fairy no longer leaves loose change. Kids this year are getting an average of $3.70 per lost tooth, a 23 percent jump over last year's rate of $3 a tooth, according to a new survey by payment processor Visa Inc., released Friday. That's a 42 percent spike from the $2.60 per tooth that the Tooth Fairy gave in 2011. Part of the reason for the sharp rise: Parents don't want their kids to be the ones at the playground who received the lowest amount. "A kid who got a quarter would wonder why their tooth was worth less than the kid who got $5," says Kit Yarrow, a consumer psychologist and professor at Golden Gate University. To avoid that, Brian and Brittany Klems asked friends and co-workers what they were giving their kids. The Klems, who have three daughters and live in Cincinnati, settled on giving their 6-year-old daughter Ella $5 for the first tooth that fell out, and $1 for any others. They say that $5 was enough without going overboard. They didn't want other families to think they were giving too much. Then Ella found out that one of her friends received $20 for a tooth. "I told her that the Tooth Fairy has only so much money for every night, and that's how she decides to split up the money," says Brian Klems, 34, a parenting blogger and author of "Oh Boy, You're Having a Girl: A Dad's Survival Guide to Raising Daughters." Confused about what to give? Ask other parents what they're giving, says Jason Alderman, a senior director of financial education at Visa. That can at least get you in the ballpark of what your kids' friends are getting, he says. Alderman gave his two kids $1 a tooth. "I think we we're on the cheap side," he says. Other families gave about $5 a tooth. One family gave their kid an antique typewriter. "I have no idea how they got that to fit under the pillow," he laughs. Visa also has a downloadable Tooth Fairy Calculator app that will give you an idea of how much parents in your age group, income bracket and education level are giving their kids, says Alderman. The calculator is also available on the Facebook apps page. How much kids are getting from the Tooth Fairy depends on where they live. Kids in the Northeast are getting the most, according to the Visa study, at $4.10 per tooth. In the west and south, kids received $3.70 and $3.60 per tooth, respectively. Midwestern kids received the least, at $3.30 a tooth. Then there are the heavy hitters. After losing her first tooth, 5-year-old Caroline Ries found a $100 bill under her pillow, along with a brand new My Little Pony toothbrush and a tube of toothpaste. But there was a catch. Her mother, Nina Ries, also left a note saying that the $100 had to go straight to Caroline's college fund. The Tooth Fairy would give her another $20 to spend anyway she likes if she brushes her teeth every day after lunch for a month. She did, and 30 days later Caroline found $20 under her pillow. Ries, a 39-year-old lawyer and owner of Ries Law Group in Santa Monica, Calif., says that $120 is a lot to give, but she believes that she is teaching her daughter that education and taking care of your teeth is important. Ries says her friends give their kids about $20 a tooth. That's way more than the $1 Ries used to get for losing her teeth as a child. "It's incredible inflation," she says. The Visa survey results are based on 3,000 phone interviews conducted in July. _______ Tooth Fairy Calculator: https://apps.facebook.com/449594221747991/ Follow Joseph Pisani at http://twitter.com/josephpisani. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstThe Washington Post's Neil Irwin looked this morning at what he sees as the many reasons the upcoming nomination of a new Federal Reserve chair became a circus, unlike past low-controversy nominations. Irwin cited the rising importance of monetary policy in today's economy, the White House's mismanaged rollout of their likely nominee, and the emergence of new monetary policy-focused media such as Business Insider (thanks Neil!). But among Neil's four factors, only one really matters at the margin: The White House appears poised to make a demonstrably bad choice for Fed Chair. If Larry Summers withdrew himself from consideration, or the White House announced that it isn't going to pick him, the circus tents would pack up and we could all go home. The Fed Chair race would become uncontroversial and boring again, Business Insider's existence notwithstanding. People oppose Summers for all sorts of reasons, but here are my two. One is that while we don't know exactly where he (or Janet Yellen) would lead on monetary policy, I suspect Summers shares the White House's unhealthy lean toward tight money. It's particularly hard to figure out what Summers would do since he's not actually a monetary policy scholar. The other is that I fear Summers would squander the comity and collaboration that make the Federal Reserve Board work, since he's had a tendency to do that at other institutions he's been tapped to lead. Of course, there are plausible cases against most nominees for most positions. What makes Summers unusual is that the case for him is so thin that it's mostly being made by his close associates. President Obama and many people in the Administrationóbroadly, the group of Clinton Administration economic veterans that includes Summersóare enamored of Summers' brilliance and consider him indispensable. Who, exactly, outside Summers' inner circle is enthusiastic about his nomination? In this way, Summers is a lot like Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel. Making the case against the case against Hagel ("Friends of Hamas") was not that hard. But what exactly was the case for Hagel? What made Hagel so much better a choice than then-Undersecretary of Defense for Policy MichËle Flournoy, the well-qualified, uncontroversial, female internal candidate, that it was worth enduring a bruising nomination fight to get him into the position? Like Fed Chair nominations, Defense Secretary nominations are usually not circuses. The White House created one last year by passing over Flournoy for Hagel. To avoid a Fed circus, all the White House has to do is not nominate Summers.
Nassim Taleb, the statistics guru behind the book "Antifragile," has posted an interesting question on his Facebook page. Taleb has yet to post the answer. But we get the sense that it's not obvious. If you're looking for some guidance, check out some of the comments on Taleb's page.¬† As you can see, some note that one of those 2 people could be saddled with debt. Facebook / Nassim Taleb
Studying the wage rate of an economy can provide an important indicator of its standard of living, but recorded wages aren't comparable across countries. The "diverse way" in which countries report wages to the International Labor Organization (ILO) adds to the difficulties of testing economic models when evaluating inequality or public policy. Also, nominal wage comparisons between wealthy nations and transition economies can be misleading, so the Big Mac Index, which moonlights as an economic indicator, allows us to have an apples-to-apples comparison of real wages. Put out every year by The Economist since 1986, it is a lighthearted measure of whether currencies are undervalued or overvalued because in the long run, prices should adjust to reflect an identical basket of goods and services. So why is calculating the purchasing power in Big Macs per hour better (or at least more interesting) than simply looking at the Consumer Price Index? First of all, CPI is an index of the cost of living within a country but doesn't offer any information on the relationship between countries. Trading EconomicsEven if we were to compare CPI between the U.S. and China, the goods and services used in the calculations are not the same for both countries. We can't make any meaningful inferences about labor productivity with this data alone. Orley Ashenfelter However, when graphing one hour of work (the "McWage") against the purchase of the same good (the "Big Mac"), we see the value that a Big Mac trades at in 60 countries. We can make inferences about the productivity of these countries based on the Balassa-Samuelson model, since average prices are higher when average incomes are higher. (For calculations in this article, the local minimum wage is substituted for the "McWage" since McDonald's only provides data for the entire country and not individual data for cities, provinces and SARs. The Ashenfelter data on Big Mac pricing is also not segregated by city, so provincial data from The Economist is used instead.) Another advantage of using Big Macs Per Hour instead of CPI to measure the standard of living is that it allows for comparisons of wage without assumptions about competition in product or labor markets. Moreover, this index is not affected by the presence (or absence) of wage regulations, which can distort welfare differences. Below is a visual representation of what a minimum wage earner can buy, in Big Macs, for one hour of work at McDonald's restaurants in the largest cities in China (and Hong Kong). Since both the labor and the ingredients are sourced locally, looking at how many Big Macs one hour of work can purchase gives us insight on real wages, labor productivity and individual well-being throughout China. The China Perspective The China Perspective The China Perspective The China Perspective
Alan Crowhurst/Getty ImagesOn September 16th and 17th hundreds of investors will get together in New York City for the Value Investing Congress¬†(VIC). And since last year, the Congress has added a bonus to your run-of-the-mill investment presentations and cheese platters by introducing a little competition ‚Äî an investment idea contest called the Value Investing Challenge. A panel of judges made up of top financial professionals will take ¬†a look at these three ideas, plucked tirelessly from hundreds of submissions to the competition's co-sponsor, SumZero¬†‚Äî¬†a networking site for buy side professionals. The ideas are then ranked, and a winner is chosen from the three finalists. The first prize winner gets to present their winning idea to the VIC, $50,000 cash, 1 free year's subscription to FactSet (another sponsor of the Challenge), and free attendance at the VIC's investing workshop. Until then, you can judge the ideas yourselves. This year's final three ideas are in ‚Äî two shorts and a long position. Each thesis is published in full at valueinvestingchallenge.com, but we've got the bullets for you below. First up, David Swartz,¬†a financial analyst at Pacific West Land, LLC. He's short Lifelock (LOCK:US), an identity theft protection service, and here's a bit of his pitch:Yahoo Finance LifeLock (LOCK) appears to be noncompliant with marketing restrictions that were imposed by a 2010 FTC Order LifeLock CEO Todd Davis suffered at least 13 instances of identity theft after he put his Social Security Number in LifeLock‚Äôs ads ¬† ¬† The next short comes from ¬†Travis Cocke, the co-founder of investment firm Southpaw Capital LLC.¬† Yahoo FinanceHe's bearish on Exact Sciences, a molecular diagnostics company that focuses on cancer detection. Check out some of his take below: The last thesis is long, and comes from Daniel W. Lawrence, a Managing Partner and Founder of Elmrox Investment Group. Yahoo FinanceHe's long Ashland, (ASH:US), a chemicals company. Check out a few bullets on why below:
Google MapsThe house at 16211 Pacifica in Rancho Santa Fe, CaliforniaHome price growth is decelerating nationwide, but of course housing is a regional story. And in Southern California, the market is still exploding. In L.A., June prices were up 2.3% MOM and 19.9% YOY ; San Diego, 2.8% and 19.3% respectively. ¬† In his latest video blog, San Diego-area real estate guru Jim Klinge, aka "Jim the Realtor," tours a 1,800-sq-.ft. home in Rancho Santa Fe that in March was bought for $745,000 but whose owners are now trying to sell it for $1.24 million ‚Äî a 66% increase. The home next door sold for $875,000 last October. That should be setting off huge alarm bells, he says: Buyers are paying crazy prices. We have become detached from the comps¬†‚Äî logic, reasoning, all the ways we used to spend a lot of brain power on figuring out the right price, it just doesn't do you any good. In fact, it's a detriment to be too smart and try to be a buyer in this market ‚Äî it's the least informed buyers making the market, just paying whatever it takes.¬†I know it's always been like that, but it's a lot worse than it's ever been. Watch the whole video here (complete with a surprise and rather unwelcome set of "gifts" at the entryway): 
CBS via YouTubeIt's been a pretty quiet week in the financial markets. Many folks in finance began their Labor Day holiday on Monday. But UBS's Art Cashin is still hard at work with the other floor traders at the New York Stock Exchange. And the escalating conflict in Syria has been leading the conversation. Here's what the sentiment is according to Cashin: Syria Speculation ñ The James Bond chapter of floor brokers took advantage of the slow tape to talk about the topic of the day ñ intervention in Syria. As to the speculation that an attack could be the tripwire to a sudden regional or, even, a semi-global war, there were more than a few skeptics.† Israel has invaded Syrian airspace three or four times this year, hitting specific targets.† None of these brought expanded conflict or even counterattack from Syria, Hezbollah or Iran. There was lots of discussion about what chemical was in the chemical attacks.† Saddam's gassing of the Kurds had a 90% fatality rate.† The fatality rate in Syria seemed much lower. How will the G20 meeting next Thursday and Friday impact timing and strategy?† Would we launch an attack with the President out of the country?† How comfortable would the President be in a nose to nose with Putin on the Russian's home turf?† Curiouser and curiouser. Stocks are down modestly in the first hour of trading today.
Gregory Shamus/Getty ImagesThe final reading of University of Michigan's August consumer confidence report are out. The headline index climbed to 82.1. This beat expectations for a modest uptick to 80.5, and is up from the initial print of 80. But the August consumer confidence report is still down from its six-year high of 85.1 in July. ¬† The sub-index for economic conditions climbed to 95.2 from a preliminary reading of 91. But was down from 98.6 in July.¬† Meanwhile the sub-index of economic conditions climbed to 73,7, from an initial reading of 72.9. But this was down from a reading of 76.5 in July as well. Inflation expectations also declined in the August report.
REUTERS/ Larry DowningJP Morgan CEO Jamie DimonFederal investigators have been looking into whether banking giant JP Morgan violated antibribery laws by hiring the children of influential Chinese officials in order to win lucrative business deals. The New York Times' Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Ben Protess reported more details on the hiring program, called "Sons and Daughters." At first, JP Morgan employees in Asia instituted "Sons and Daughters" to avoid†seeing bribery charges stemming from hiring the children of China's ruling elite. It eventually became a fast-tracking process, according to the report. From the Times: But in the months and years that followed, the two-tiered process that could have prevented questionable hiring practices instead fostered them, according to the interviews as well as the confidential government document. Applicants from prominent Chinese families, interviews show, often faced few job interviews and relaxed standards. While many candidates met or exceeded the bankís requirements, some had subpar academic records and lacked relevant expertise. The Times points to one 2007 example where the bank hired the daughter of the former deputy chief engineer of China's railway ministry. In the months that followed, the bank "nestled closer to the railways business in China," according to the report. Investigators will likely look to those kind of examples, where hiring decisions were made exclusively on pedigree over skill†and hires directly bolstered business in China. Their efforts could be aided an internal spreadsheet connecting appointments to sought after business deals, as Bloomberg's Dawn Kopecki reported yesterday.
CBS NewsIt's Warren Buffett's birthday today! The Oracle of Omaha is now 83 years young. And he still works. Even in this age of Bloomberg Terminals and high speed trading, Buffett doesn't even have a computer at his desk. Yet he continues to be the undisputed greatest investor to ever live. What follows are images from a guided tour that Buffett gave to Charlie Rose and CBS's Lara Logan. Note: Reporter Lisa Du originally worked on this feature.
Chicago PMI rose to 53.0, meeting expectations. July's reading was 52.3. It's the first back-to-back gain in two years. The report was mixed, with a drop in employment to 54.9 from 56.6 but gains in new orders. Here's Dan Greenhaus' take: Yes the Chi PMI employment pulled back slightly but there was a big jump in new orders to 57.2. Chi PMi has highest correl with natl ISM. Econoday The Chicago Business BarometerTM increased to 53.0 in August from 52.3 in July, led¬† by an increase in New Orders and a second monthly gain in Order Backlogs. Order Backlogs, though, remained in contraction after a record plunge in June.  The August data showed a second month of stabilisation in the Barometer compared with the erratic moves seen in the second quarter. This stability came, however, at fragile levels leaving the Barometer within striking distance of the breakeven 50 level, and below the average seen over the past 10 years of 55.9. Production, Employment and Supplier Deliveries all fell between July and August, although all remained above 50. Production was down for the third consecutive month while Employment slowed for a second month in August.  Inventories continued to contract, but at a slower pace than in July and Prices Paid rose for a fourth consecutive month.  Little change in Supplier lead times contrasted with significant lengthening in Buying Policies for Production Materiel and Capital Equipment in August. Commenting on the MNI Chicago Report, Philip Uglow, Chief Economist at MNI Indicators said, ‚ÄúA pick-up in New Orders helped push the Barometer slightly higher in August, but activity still remains below trend.‚Äù
BATTERY PARK CITY ‚Äî A Manhattan housewife has been arrested for trying to hire a hit man for $60,000 worth of rare postage stamps and jewelry to kill her unemployed husband following a dispute over money, DNAinfo New York has learned. The woman, Elena Sava Adams, 57, was grabbed by cops when she met with an undercover officer from the Brooklyn District Attorney‚Äôs office who was posing as an assassin willing to kill her husband, Irving Adams, 66, who lost his job as the chief compliance officer at Israel Discount Bank of New York several years ago. According to sources, Adams, who is a Romanian national, allegedly had been arguing with her husband about the amount of money he was giving her to make ends meet. She apparently told an acquaintance on Monday that she wanted to kill her husband and was willing to hire a hit man to run him over with a car, sources said. Investigators believe she was out to collect on life insurance money. According to cops, Elena Adams planned to have lunch with her husband on Sept. 1. After eating, they were supposed to cross Avenue Z at 11th Street, where the hitman was meant to run her husband over. She chose to have her clandestine meetings in Brooklyn because she believed the borough has fewer surveillance cameras than Manhattan, sources said. The go-between, however, went to detectives at the 61st Precinct and told them about the plot. The NYPD contacted the DA‚Äôs office because of its expertise in sending undercovers who pose as contract killers, sources said. The undercover contacted Elena Adams, and she allegedly told the faux hit man that she had valuable jewelry and stamps that she would give him as payment if he carried out the $60,000 contract. They met earlier Thursday in a parking lot at East 16th Street and Sheepshead Bay Road in Sheepshead Bay. She got into his car, and they drove over to Shore Parkway where she handed over the items, which were rare German postage stamps that she said were very valuable, and detailed her husband's movements. She was then arrested. The wife was taken to the 61st Precinct station house in Coney Island where she was being held late Thursday, according to sources. A neighbor on the 10th floor of their Battery Park City high rise who would only give his name as Steve said the couple was eccentric. "They're odd," he said. "He used to throw out the recyclables in his boxers. They used to live on¬†Krispy Kreme¬†and pizza." But the couple showed no sign of financial strain, he said. "They used to go on ski trips once or twice a year," the neighbor said. He said the wife showed him photos of the weeks-long vacations on her camera phone. She told him that they also owned a house in Romania. He never heard them fight or saw any outward signs of domestic violence, he said. "It's a shock," he said. "It's not something you expect from your neighbors." Thursday night detectives were still interviewing Irving Adams in his apartment. He did not come to the door for comment.
Earlier today, we learned that Japan's core consumer prices, which excludes fresh food,† climbed 0.7% in July. This was up from 0.4% in June and a bit higher than the 0.6% expected. According to Bloomberg, this was the fastest pace of price increases since 2008. "Japan is escaping from deflation," said Economics Minister Akira Amari. All of this comes as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pushes his ambitious economics plan, aka Abenomics. Efforts include unprecedented amounts of financial easing via the Bank of Japan. The uptick in prices suggests that Abenomics is working. Shortly after the inflation stats were released, we learned that Japan's unemployment rate fell to 3.8% in July, down from 3.9% in June. This was the lowest reading since October 2008. "Japanese industrial production and labour market figures suggested a firm recovery and consumer prices added to evidence that deflation is finished, certainly for now," wrote Societe Generale's Takuki Alda and Kiyoko Katahira. Societe Generale
REUTERS/Kacper PempelThe July readings of personal income and spending were a bit light. Income climbed by just 0.1%, which was less than the 0.2% expected by economists. Spending rose by just 0.1%, which was below the 0.3% expected. "Data from the employment report showed weaker job growth in July," said Wells Fargo's John Silvia in a note before the data was release. "Combined with a slightly shorter workweek and a pullback in earnings, take home pay looks to have softened.... Retail sales growth slowed over the month, while a smaller increase in gasoline prices saved consumers from having to step up spending at the pump as much as they did the previous month."
The College Of New JerseyDr. William Keep, dean of the College of New Jersey.BOSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - In the battle of investors who've made opposite bets on the shares of Herbalife, both sides - including firms led by billionaires Bill Ackman and George Soros - have consulted a New Jersey college professor and studied his research. For decades, William Keep, dean of the School of Business at the College of New Jersey, has pursued a relatively obscure marketing specialty known as multilevel marketing businesses, or MLMs. But as a new go-to adviser for some of Wall Street's biggest players, Keep has been suddenly thrust into the spotlight. In December, Ackman placed a $1 billion short bet against Herbalife, citing the professor's research. Since then, Soros bought a large block of the company's shares around the time his firm was seeking out Keep's research and personal insights. Through it all, Keep insists he has remained neutral to the investment implications of his studies. "As my agenda has to do with MLMs and pyramid schemes, this sideshow is a distraction," he said of the attention he's received from investors and the media. Multilevel marketers pay their sales force not only for the products they sell but also for recruiting other sales people. A pyramid scheme occurs where a company's sales team earns more for finding new distributors than they get for selling the product. SHUNS INVESTMENT ADVICE Ackman cited a paper co-authored by Keep in his December presentation when he lambasted Herbalife's business model. Months later, Ackman called Keep and spoke to him on the phone, though it is not clear what the two discussed. Herbalife has repeatedly rejected Ackman's characterization of the company as a pyramid scheme that will eventually go bust. Keep told Reuters in an interview that he has not voiced an opinion one way or another on whether Herbalife is a pyramid scheme. He makes clear to investors he isn't giving them investment advice. Keep said that in his discussions with investments managers he never gets an indication of how they will react to his research. "Once I leave the room, they could say, 'this is silly'. I don't know what kind of investment decisions they will make." But investors still seek him out. Keep has been invited as a guest speaker at several hedge fund events and even visited the offices of Soros' family office. During the summer, Keep met with some of Soros's investment staff, including portfolio manager Paul Sohn, to give them a tutorial on his research. Keep said Soros's investment team wanted to know how he thinks the epic battle over Herbalife will play out. Keep declined to tell Reuters what he specifically told the Soros team, but said they had one burning question: Are regulators going to take action against Herbalife - something Ackman has been counting on in betting the company's shares will crash. He also declined to handicap the outcome of any potential regulatory investigation, saying only that it would take a long time and cost a lot of money. Keep visited Soros in June and again in July. Regulatory filings show Soros Fund Management purchased 5 million shares of Herbalife in the second quarter, becoming the latest high-profile investor to line up against Ackman and his Pershing Square Capital Management fund. Another manager investing for Soros, East Side Capital, had a long position on Herbalife long before Ackman made his December presentation and still ranks as Herbalife's seventh-largest investor. SOUGHT-OUT SPECIALIST Besides meeting with the Soros team, Keep said he also spoke at a luncheon sponsored by research firm DeMatteo Monness for its hedge fund clients and at an event sponsored by research firm Hedgeye in recent months. Keep has often been called as an expert witness when the government, including the Federal Trade Commission, has investigated pyramid schemes. And because of his specialist knowledge, Keep has frequently been featured in the media. Even as he was preparing for a new school semester, he said, he has been swamped by calls from reporters. For months, the battle of the future of Herbalife has fascinated Wall Street, given the number of high-profile investors lining up to bet against Ackman. Ackman's most notable and outspoken critic has been Carl Icahn, Herbalife's biggest shareholder, who got into the stock shortly after Ackman unveiled his big short positions. So far, Ackman and his $11 billion Pershing Square have been losers in this contest of Wall Street billionaires, with Herbalife shares rising 83 percent this year. Pershing Square has incurred at least $300 million in paper losses on its investment. (Reporting By Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Matthew Goldstein and Ken Wills)
The brutal financial asset sell-off in the Emerging Markets picked up this week. And it's all reflected in the fund flows reports. "Emerging Markets debt-dedicated funds recorded net outflows of $2,013MM (0.84% AUM) for the week ending on August 28, 2013, reports EPFR," said Morgan Stanley's Robert Habib. "Outflows increased for the third consecutive week and were the highest since they peaked late in June at nearly $6bn (2.2% of AUM). The total outflows since these commenced late in May now amount to $22.4bn. In line with the large outflows, prices of EM-dedicated funds extended their negative trend and fell 0.72% during the week." "On a regional basis, investors decreased exposure from all EM regions, particularly from Asia-dedicated funds once more," added Habib. Here's a geographic breakdown of the bond market bleeding: Morgan Stanley And here's a historical look: Morgan Stanley
REUTERS/Larry DowningWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Obama administration on Thursday gave American lawmakers what it called fresh evidence that Syria's government was behind a chemical weapons attack, but faced strong resistance to military action from both U.S. political parties and a stinging rejection from Britain, a key ally. During a conference call at the end of a difficult day for the White House, U.S. officials told members of Congress there was "no doubt" that chemical weapons were used in Syria last week. Obama aides cited intercepted communications of Syrian officials and evidence of movements by Syria's military around Damascus before the attack that killed more than 300 people, said U.S. Representative Eliot Engel, the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. The administration's 90-minute briefing on Syria for senior members of Congress was conducted by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, National Security Adviser Susan Rice and other high-ranking U.S. officials. Several lawmakers in both parties said they were impressed by the briefing and that it made a convincing case for military action. But many were not persuaded, including several key lawmakers in both parties. Among them: Carl Levin of Michigan, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. Levin, normally a strong supporter of fellow Democrat Obama, appeared to suggest after Thursday's briefing that the White House should tap the brakes on any timetable for military action at least until United Nations inspectors complete their examination of the attack area. Levin also said that White House should secure international support for intervening in Syria - a condition that seemed increasingly distant after Britain's House of Commons rejected military action in a symbolic vote on Thursday. Meanwhile, other U.S. lawmakers brought up a range of complications for Obama. They included questions of whether the "limited" military action Obama has suggested would really discourage Syrian President Bashar al-Assad from again using chemical weapons on civilians, and even whether the Pentagon could afford to attack Syria after the $85 billion in automatic spending cuts that Congress imposed on the federal government earlier this year. The increasing doubts about Obama's call for action against Syria appeared to increase the likelihood that the United States would have to act alone if it wants to launch a missile strike to punish Assad's government for violating international law by using chemical weapons. After Parliament's vote against military action in Syria, British Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said Britain would not take part in any strike but added: "I don't expect that the lack of British participation will stop any action." Obama has left little doubt in recent days that the choice was not whether, but when, to punish Assad's government for last week's chemical weapons attack against Syrian rebels outside Damascus. It was one of the most gruesome assaults in a 2 1/2-year civil war that the United Nations estimates has killed more than 100,000 people. Obama administration officials said Thursday that the president was willing to launch a limited strike against Syria even without specific promises of support from allies because U.S. national security interests were at stake. Caitlin Hayden, spokeswoman for the White House National Security Council, said after the British Parliament vote that Obama's decision-making on Syria would be guided by "the best interests of the United States." "The U.S. will continue to consult with the UK government - one of our closest allies and friends," she said in a statement. She added that Obama believes "there are core interests at stake for the United States and that countries who violate international norms regarding chemical weapons need to be held accountable." A 'PAPER TIGER' Some Republican lawmakers and even some of Obama's fellow Democrats have complained that the White House has not kept them sufficiently informed on Syria. After the briefing, some said the administration still had work to do to convince the public that the United States should take action in Syria. Several said that Obama created a problem for himself and the United States by claiming that Assad would cross a "red line" and spur a strong U.S. response if Syria used chemical weapons. "The president is going to have to make his case to the American people before he takes any action. The problem that he finds himself in and has placed us in is that if he does not take action now after making these statements, then we become a paper tiger to the rest of the world," said Republican Representative Howard "Buck" McKeon of California, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. Senator James Inhofe, a Republican from Oklahoma, said late Thursday that the administration's briefing had not been convincing. "Tonight the administration informed us that they have a ëbroad range of options' for Syria but failed to lay out a single option," Inhofe said. "They also did not provide a timeline, a strategy for Syria and the Middle East, or a plan for the funds to execute such an option." The timeline for possible U.S. action also has been complicated by the continued presence in Syria of U.N. weapons inspectors who are there to verify that chemical weapons were used. The United Nations said its inspectors would leave the area on Saturday and issue a report on their findings afterward. Levin, the Democratic senator from Michigan, said efforts to increase pressure on Assad should be conducted "while U.N. inspectors complete their work and while we seek international support for limited, targeted strikes in response to the Assad regime's large-scale use of chemical weapons against the Syrian people." U.S. ACTION 'JUSTIFIED, WARRANTED' Some of Obama's fellow Democrats offered support for his call for a U.S. operation in Syria. "Tonight's briefing reaffirmed for me that a decisive and consequential U.S. response is justified and warranted to protect Syrians, as well as to send a global message that chemical weapons attacks in violation of international law will not stand," Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, said in a statement. The briefing for senior lawmakers initially was meant to be classified, but did not contain any top-secret information after many members of Congress were unable to get to secure telephone lines. It was called to address concerns about Obama's plans that had been expressed by increasingly vocal Republicans and several Democrats in Congress. Letters circulating among members of Congress in both parties have called for more consultation from the White House on Syria. One, signed by 54 Democrats in the Republican-led House of Representatives, urged Obama to seek congressional approval before pulling the trigger on any U.S. military action. "While the ongoing human rights violations and continued loss of life are horrific, they should not draw us into an unwise war," wrote the House Democrats, none of whom are members of the senior leadership. White House spokesman Josh Earnest said any military operation would be "very discrete and limited" and not open-ended, and said the United States would not get caught up in another war like the one in Iraq. He noted that the British foreign secretary had made clear the United States had the right and ability to make its own foreign policy decisions. (Additional reporting by Tabassum Zakaria, Steve Holland, David Alexander and Jeff Mason in Washington, and Alex Dobuzinskis in California; Writing by John Whitesides; Editing by David Lindsey and Lisa Shumaker)
REUTERS/Mohamed Abdullah A U.N. chemical weapons expert, wearing a gas mask, holds a plastic bag containing samples from one of the sites of an alleged chemical weapons attack in the Ain Tarma neighbourhood of Damascus August 29, 2013. A team of U.N. experts left their Damascus hotel for a third day of on-site investigations into apparent chemical weapons attacks on the outskirts of the capital. Activists and doctors in rebel-held areas said the six-car U.N. convoy was scheduled to visit the scene of strikes in the eastern Ghouta suburbs. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
ShutterstockBefore everyone unplugs and checks out for their Labor Day weekends, three economic reports will come out. From Calculated Risk's Bill McBride: ¬†
REUTERS/Thomas PeterGerman Chancellor and head of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) Angela Merkel speaks to supporters at a CDU election campaign event in the eastern town of Ilmenau, August 26, 2013. German voters will take to the polls in a general election on September 22. The placards read "We vote for the Chancellor!" (L) and "Keep Cool and Vote for the Chancellor". "Angie" is a nickname of Chancellor Merkel, often used by her supporters.When German voters head to the polls Sept. 22 for federal parliamentary elections, the results might seem to carry profound implications for the future of the euro zone. After all, the sentiments of German voters ñ specifically, their reluctance to pay for bailouts in struggling euro-zone economies ñ have played one of the more crucial roles in shaping the euro zoneís response to its debt crisis. With the International Monetary Fundís recent revelation that Greece will likely need another cash infusion next year, one could easily conclude that Germanyís man on the street wonít simply be casting a vote that will determine the future of his country; heíll be casting a vote that will determine the future of the European Union itself. In reality, though, thereís little reason to expect radical change. Weíre not exactly going out on a limb when we suggest that German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the pragmatic center-right leader who has shaped the response to the debt crisis more than any other European official, will almost certainly stay in power. Fifty-eight percent of voters would like her to remain in office, compared to 27 percent who prefer her primary opponent, the center-left SPD partyís Peer Steinbr¸ck. As such, Credit Suisseís Senior European Economist Christel Aranda-Hassel told The Financialist that the election is unlikely to have a dramatic impact on Germanyís EU policy going forward. But even though Merkel will likely remain Germanyís leader, her dance partners might change. Though Merkelís conservative CDU party is currently ahead in the polls, it is unlikely to get enough support to govern on its own, and polls show that voters could shake things up a bit by bringing a new coalition to the Bundestag. In a recent poll, slightly more than half of German voters said that they would like to see a grand coalition with the Social Democrats of the SPD, while only about one-third of voters want to keep the current matchup with the center-right, free-market FDP. Given the vagaries of polling versus voting, thatís a statistical toss-up, and Credit Suisse has said that at this point, Merkel has a roughly equal chance of winding up in coalition with either party. As far as the monetary union is concerned, it probably doesnít matter all that much with which party Merkel shares power. The German chancellor has repeatedly resisted efforts to mutualize the debts of EU member nations, and a red-black coalition, as Germans call a potential SPD-CDU matchup, probably wouldnít change that. The Social Democrats of SPD call themselves the ìEuropean party of Germanyî in their platform, Aranda-Hassel noted, but they also know that despite a desire among most German voters that the currency union stay intact, they arenít crazy about shouldering responsibility for the debts of their fellow euro members. (A Pew Research poll in May showed that 60 percent of Germans had a favorable view of the European Union and 66 percent preferred to keep the euro, rather than returning to the deutsche mark as the national currency.) ìEarlier in the crisis, the Social Democrats (SPD) tried to differentiate themselves from the government by seeming to be more in favor of Eurobonds,î Aranda-Hassel said, referring to a proposal last year to issue new bonds backed by all euro-zone member countries, which Merkel strongly opposed. ìThey learned the hard way that that has not given them a single vote. And behind closed doors, the SPD would tell you they like the idea, but only if thereís a full fiscal union, which is still a while away. My view has always been that there is not a big difference between one party and the other.î (In fact, the CDU also considers a full fiscal union to be a prerequisite to even thinking about mutualizing debt.) Regardless, EU officials have been anxiously awaiting the end of Germanyís election season so that everyone can get back to haggling about the creation of an EU banking union. There has been some progress on that front, including an agreement to allow the European Central Bank to supervise banks throughout the euro zone starting in 2014. EU finance ministers also have tentatively agreed on a set of standard procedures that every country in the euro zone would have to follow when shuttering failing banks. The plan would allow banks to draw on a permanent EU bailout fund only after getting rid of at least 8 percent of liabilities via haircuts to shareholders and creditors and getting their respective national governments to pony up an additional 5 percent. Even in the lead-up to the election, German officials continue to flex their political and economic muscle, and have already voiced displeasure over the next proposed step toward a full-fledged banking union ñ the establishment of a single European body that could recommend shutting down a failing bank anywhere in the euro zone. In a July letter to Michel Barnier, the European Commissioner for Internal Markets and Services, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Sch‰uble argued that the proposal overstepped EU law and put too much power in one centralized authority. As the euro zoneís largest economy, Germany would naturally much prefer that individual countries remain responsible for dealing with their own failing banks. Sch‰uble also said that vesting power in a central European body would require changes to the EU treaty ñ a time-consuming and uncertain process that could delay or even derail the so-called Single Resolution Mechanism, which the European Commission wants in place by 2015. In addition to a single authority for failing banks, European Union authorities are also seeking more long-term agreement about euro-zone members joining forces to guarantee bank deposits throughout the region. But that, too, will have to wait until the electioneering is done. ìThe German taxpayer does not want to hear ahead of an election that it is his money that is going to bail out banks elsewhere,î Aranda-Hassel noted. Germany will likely end up ceding ground on the idea of a full banking union because breaking the link between bank debt and sovereign debt is an essential step to ending the European crisis once and for all, Aranda-Hassel said. But she cautions against expecting that process to be accelerated in the event that the mildly pro-Europe SPD enters a coalition government. ìAny hopes that a move towards Eurobonds or the banking union could be speeded up (with an SPD-CDU coalition) are likely to be short-lived,î Aranda-Hassell wrote in a recent note entitled ìGermany Goes to the Polls.î ìThe SPD is likely to share the CDU/CSUís hostility to any banking resolution scheme financed by domestic taxpayers without a German vetoÖThe SPD is also likely to back the CDU on not supporting anything as controversial as a common bank resolution fund or Eurobonds without a treaty change.î The SPD could soften some of the CDUís more hard-edged views toward euro-zone issues on the margins, however. For one thing, Aranda-Hassel noted, the SPD pays more lip service to encouraging growth, specifically through a light-on-specifics campaign promise to set up a European investment and reconstruction fund. But the one real difference that the SPD could make, Aranda-Hassel said, would be to encourage more economic stimulus in Germany itself. Germans are notoriously enthusiastic savers, and Credit Suisse has said repeatedly that boosting demand in Germany could lift growth throughout Europe. ìThe Social Democrats are more likely to pump-prime and use fiscal means to pursue growth a little bit more than the CDU,î she said. ìSo I think it would be healthier for Europe if we get a grand coalition, rather than a repeat of the CDU and FDP.î Whatever happens, itís highly unlikely that Germany will end up taking a harsher stance on important issues like supporting further bailouts. Support for Alternative f¸r Deutschland (AfD), an anti-EU party that first emerged earlier this year, has hovered at an anemic 2-3 percent ñ well short of the 5 percent of the vote needed to gain representation in the Bundestag. Still, with Greece once again grabbing headlines, the group could prove to be a spoiler by siphoning votes from both CDU and FDP, making a coalition between the CDU and SPD more likely. If Merkel wins, which she seems set to do, the German elections are unlikely to have significant new implications for the future of the European Union. German politicians are likely to continue to rail against calls for their taxpayers to contribute more to resolve debt troubles in fellow EU countries, only to agree on a compromise in the end. Sometimes power isnít all itís cracked up to be.
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachJosef AckermannZURICH (Reuters) - The finance chief of Zurich Insurance, Pierre Wauthier, wrote about his relationship with chairman Josef Ackermann in his suicide note, the company confirmed on Friday, and pledged to investigate whether he had been put under undue pressure before his death. Europe's third-largest insurer has been thrown into disarray since Wauthier was found dead at his family's lakefront home on Monday and the subsequent resignation of former Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; boss Ackermann three days later. Ackermann, one of Europe's top financiers, said Wauthier's family believed he shared responsibility for his death. He denied the allegation but said he was quitting to avoid damaging Zurich's reputation. He joined as chairman last year. In a conference call, acting Chairman Tom de Swaan tried to reassure investors perplexed by the dramatic chain of events. "The board sees it as its prime responsibility to look into the question as to whether there was undue pressure placed on our CFO," he said. De Swaan said he was not aware of any inappropriate behavior by Zurich's board members. A person close to Ackermann said Wauthier's widow had accused him in the days following her husband's death of setting demanding targets that had put huge pressure on the 53-year-old father of two. Wauthier's widow has declined to comment. De Swaan confirmed that Wauthier, a company veteran who took over as finance chief in 2011, had left a suicide note in which he talked about Ackermann but declined to elaborate out of respect for the family. FLUX Ackermann's abrupt departure crowns a period of considerable flux among Zurich Insurance's upper echelons. Its life insurance chief Kevin Hogan left two weeks ago to join AIG &lt;AIG.N&gt; as its head of consumer insurance and former general insurance head Mario Greco quit a year ago to become head of Italian insurer Generali &lt;GASI.MI&gt;. "The board is well aware of the need to strengthen the management team, and I consider this to be our top priority," said de Swaan, who was previously vice chairman. "Our focus is on ensuring the continued stability of the company." Shares in the group, the worst performing insurance stock in Europe over the past six months, rose 1.62 percent after the conference call with investors noting that Ackermann's departure would not derail the group. "Ackermann has not been there for a long time. He's not the architect of anything, and this is not a company in a big transition," said one Top 20 shareholder, who declined to be named. The investor said Ackermann's openness about why he was resigning was actually reassuring. "I was quite surprised at the statement and the references to Pierre's family. Normally, you see a holding statement," he said. "In a funny way, though, what he said was better than if he just walked without saying anything, because then it would look like perhaps there was a hole or that something was wrong with the accounts. Not so much a cover-up but that something might have been found in the company." DIFFICULT SITUATION The suicide scandal comes as Zurich Insurance tries to turn around its performance. Two weeks ago the group reported a 17 percent slide in first-half net profit and it said low investment returns meant it would miss some targets. The company's shares have fallen nearly 11 percent in the past six months, compared with a near 10 percent increase in the European insurance index &lt;.SXIP&gt;. A former colleague of Wauthier's said there had been pressure within the company to turn around its share performance. Ackermann, who had been expected to take on a more high-profile job in his native Switzerland than the chairmanship of an insurer, wanted to boost Zurich's market share and make it more dynamic. Former colleagues of Ackermann say he does not court confrontation. "I have never seen Ackermann lose his cool at a meeting. But if you were underperforming, he had a way of communicating it without having to spell it out in a way which was personal. You talked about the numbers, and they told you everything you needed to know," said one senior banker, who declined to be named. At Zurich Insurance's headquarter, staff are reeling from Wauthier's death and the company has installed a telephone hotline for employees. "It's a very difficult situation; Pierre had been here since 1996 and was held in very high esteem by his colleagues." said one staffer, who declined to be named. (Additional reporting by Katharine Bart in Zurich Philip Halstrick and Edward Taylor in Frankfurt and Sinead Cruise in London. Writing by Carmel Crimmins; Editing by Will Waterman)
REUTERS/Juan MedinaPeople wait in a queue to enter a government-run employment office in Madrid July 25, 2013. Spanish unemployment fell for the first time in two years in the second quarter, surprising markets and supporting the government's contention that the worst of the country's economic slump may be over.The July European unemployment numbers are out, and the good news is that they're not getting worse. The euro area unemployment rate in July was unchanged at 12.1%. The youth unemployment rate is at an ugly 24.0%. From the press release: The euro area (EA17) seasonally-adjusted unemployment rate was 12.1% in July 2013, stable compared with June. The EU28 unemployment rate was 11.0%, also stable compared with June. In both zones, rates have risen compared with July 2012, when they were 11.5% and 10.5% respectively. These figures are published by Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union. Eurostat estimates that 26.654 million men and women in the EU28, of whom 19.231 million were in the euro area, were unemployed in July 2013. Compared with June 2013, the number of persons unemployed decreased by 33,000 in the EU28 and by 15,000 in the euro area. Compared with July 2012, unemployment rose by 995,000 in the EU28 and by 1.008 million in the euro area. From Eurostat: Eurostat
This year, industrial commodity prices have been relatively weak. In this environment, rising oil prices aren‚Äôt necessarily bullish for stocks. On the contrary, they can be bearish if they spike up as a result of a geopolitical supply shock. This explains why the S&amp;P 500 Energy sector has been a laggard this year, even though oil prices have been mostly rising since May 1.  Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Large Speculators in Oil.¬†(1) Middle East commotion pushing oil prices higher. (2) Large speculators have been hoarding crude oil futures contracts since start of Arab Spring. (3) They currently own equivalent of all US oil stocks. (4) From mini-correction to full-blown one? (5) Lots of investment advisors in correction camp, and much fewer bulls. (6) Tracking the relationship between stock and oil prices. (7) Time to overweight underweight-rated Energy? (More for subscribers.) 
The euro-area economic confidence index climbed to 95.2 in August, beating expectations for a reading of 93.8. This adds to the growing optimism about the european economy, which appears to have put its darkest days behind it. From the announcement: In August the Economic Sentiment Indicator (ESI) increased sharply by 2.7 points in the euro area (to 95.2) and 3.1 points in the EU (to 98.1). The indicator rose for the fourth successive month in both regions, marking a two-year high in the EU.  Economic sentiment indicator (s.a.) August EU: 98.1- Euro Area: 95.2 Europa Euro area developments In the euro area, the strong increase resulted from pronounced improvements in confidence among consumers and managers in industry, services and retail trade. Only in the construction sector confidence weakened. Economic sentiment improved in fourteen euro area countries and in all of its five largest economies, i.e. the Netherlands (+5.2), Germany (+3.3), Italy (+2.0), France (+1.6) and Spain (+0.8).  Industry confidence increased significantly (+2.7) fuelled by managers' much more positive assessment of the current level of overall order books and production expectations. Their assessment of the stocks of finished products improved too. Also companies' assessments of past production and the current level of export order books, which are not included in the confidence indicator, were much more favourable. Services confidence saw a significant increase as well (+2.5), resulting from a sharp rise in managers' assessment of the past business situation and important improvements concerning past demand and demand expectations. Consumer confidence continued its upward trend that started in December 2012. Its marked improvement (+1.8) was mainly thanks to more optimistic views on the future general economic situation. Consumers' opinions on the future financial situation of their households and on their savings over the next 12 months also brightened, while their unemployment expectations remained unchanged. Also retail trade confidence increased substantially (+3.3). Managers were particularly more confident about the future business situation. Also their assessments of the present business situation and their volume of stocks improved markedly. By contrast, the construction sector registered a decrease in confidence (‚Äë0.9), resulting from managers' worsened assessment of both order books and employment expectations. Financial services confidence (not included in the ESI) increased sharply by 3.5 points, driven by a striking increase in managers' demand expectations. While managers' assessment of past demand improved slightly, their views on the past business situation deteriorated somewhat.  Employment plans were revised upwards in industry, services and retail trade, while decreasing in construction. Selling price expectations remained broadly stable in industry, services and retail trade while increasing in construction. Consumers' price expectations for the next 12 months increased as well.
Flickr/HBarrisonMarkets are down across Europe. Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.6%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.8%. Germany's DAX is down 0.9%. Spain's IBEX is down 1.1%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 1.0%. Later today, we'll get the August Chicago PMI report, which is expected to rise to 53.0 from 52.3 in July. Otherwise, it's expected to be a pretty quiet day as the U.S. prepares for it's three-day Labor Day weekend.
