(Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images) JP Morgan is sometimes called 'The House of Dimon' for the all encompassing presence of its CEO, Jamie Dimon. For years he has been unquestionably the most powerful banker in the United States, and as such, the de facto voice of Wall Street. But over the last year that has slowly changed. His friends in Washington are deserting him, and today, JP Morgan shareholders will vote on whether or not he should keep his total grip on the bank. Dimon is both CEO and Chairman of the Board at JPM ó many believe that he should leave his role as Chairman. This vote is the culmination of months of scandal ó scandal that would've seemed impossible during the financial crisis when Dimon, then a strong Obama supporter, intoned that bank CEOs that had lead their companies to destruction should be served "Old Testament Justice." The public loved it: Here was a handsome, straight-talking leader with a slight Queens accent. A Harvard Business grad who would get on Fox Business wearing Wrangler Jeans and speak about the fact that his name was being floated around for Treasury Secretary with light, good humor. Dimon is funny, charming, and excellent on camera. He wears cuff links given to him by the President of the United States. In a time when Americans were scared and confused about what was happening to them, the CEO of JP Morgan could be trusted to give it to them simply. Jamie Dimon became a household name. As for his House, JP Morgan never needed a bailout. In fact it bought the broken Bear Stearns in what can only be called a total firesale (Bear was worth over $11 billion and JPM paid $260 million for it). It also bought Washington Mutual and became the biggest bank in the country while still consistently beating analyst estimates on profit. But with size comes increased scrutiny and, more importantly, increased complexity. Legacy lawsuits from the mortgage crisis continued to pile on, but that wasn't so bad, many of those transgressions could be attributed to what was done at Bear Stearns. At least that was the story until last spring, when reports of strange activity in the credit markets started making headlines. Reporters asked Dimon about a huge position that an unknown trader in JP Morgan's Chief Investment Office (CIO) was making. They heard it was a whale, Dimon said it was a "Tempest in a Teapot." It was not. It was a $6 billion trading loss that employees in the CIO hid from their bosses for months, and in doing so, only made worse. Heads rolled, including that of CIO head Ina Drew. Still, Dimon, Presidential cuff links and all, was forced to testify in front of Congress. That's when the narrative changed. The switch flipped. Instead of confident, Dimon was arrogant. Instead of wanting to meet out Old Testament Justice, he wanted the government to accept his bank's report on the 'London Whale' and let JP Morgan handle the affair on its own. His critics charged that Dimon had lost control and that JP Morgan may be too big to manage for anyone. Evidence to support that thesis, at first, started trickling out and then came in steady streams. In January, JP Morgan faced an order to tighten its money laundering controls. At the same time, the bank faced sanctions for withholding documents related to the Bernie Madoff Ponzi scheme ó JPM was his banker for decades. Most recently, Federal regulators have warned Dimon that Washington is growing tired of JP Morgan's antics. Eight agencies are investigating the bank right now, including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which will likely pursue action against the bank for trading in the California and Michigan electric markets, says the NYT.  So yes, JP Morgan is still reporting healthy profits, but for many on the board that's not enough. They want better governance, they want the boss of all bosses to have a boss. That is, after all what the Chairman of the Board is supposed to do ó ensure that the CEO is working in the best interest of shareholders. Last year, 40% of JP Morgan shareholders voted to strip Dimon of his Chairmanship. This year it looks to be more. Proxy advisors,†Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis, have advised JP Morgan shareholders to vote in favor of splitting the two roles. Massive pension fund CalPers has said that it will vote for the split as well. It is not in Dimon's nature to take anything lying down, and so he hasn't. He has said that he will leave the bank entirely if the shareholders vote him out as Chairman, even though the vote is only advisory. Not only that, but last week, The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (an organization of which JP Morgan is a part) asked Broadridge, the company tallying incoming shareholder votes, to†stop sharing the results with Dimon's opponents. His opponents, in turn, filed an inquiry with the SEC to see if withholding that information is legal, according the Reuters. Today there will be protestors outside the bank's headquarters, but inside the bank sources tell Business Insider that no one is worried. Dimon's army of traders, bankers, lawyers, etc. remain loyal to the chief. That said... it's not up to them.
APApple CEO Tim Cook is going to get raked over the coals by Congress for the company's spectacular tax-dodging techniques. No one is suggesting that any of these techniques are illegal. No one is suggesting that Apple is doing anything that any number of other massive multi-national companies aren't doing. And no one is suggesting that companies should voluntarily pay more taxes than they absolutely have to pay. But boy are Apple's tax-dodging techniques effective. And, boy, do they make clear that the United States (and, ideally, other world governments) have to get together to simplify corporate tax policies. Or else this highly sophisticated tax-dodging will continue to become a bigger and bigger source of corporate profitability. In preparation for the televised Congressional grilling, Congress has released a document laying out what it contends are some of Apple's tax-dodging techniques. Apple, meanwhile, has released its own testimony, in which it points out that it†is one of the largest U.S. taxpayers and†explains that it does not resort to some of the "gimmicks" that other companies use to avoid U.S. taxes. These positions, importantly, are not mutually exclusive. And the respective arguments will give you a sense of how complex this issue is. Here's what Congress says Apple has been doing to dodge taxes: That's the standard stuff. And here's where it gets really impressive: In addition to those standard multinational tactics, Apple established at the apex of its offshore network an offshore holding company that it says is not tax resident in any nation. That subsidiary, Apple Operations International, has no employees and no physical presence, but keeps its bank accounts and records in the United States and holds its board meetings in California. It was incorporated in Ireland in 1980, and is owned and controlled by the U.S. parent company, Apple Inc. †Ireland asserts tax jurisdiction only over companies that are managed and controlled in Ireland, but the United States bases tax residency on where a company is incorporated. Exploiting the gap between the two nationsí tax laws, Apple Operations International has not filed an income tax return in either country, or any other country, for the past five years. †From 2009 to 2012, it reported income totaling $30 billion.† A second Irish subsidiary claiming not to be a tax resident anywhere is Apple Sales International which, from 2009 to 2012, had sales revenue totaling $74 billion.† The company appears to have paid taxes on only a tiny fraction of that income, resulting, for example, in an effective 2011 tax rate of only five hundreds of one percent.† In addition to creating non-tax resident affiliates, Apple Inc. has utilized U.S. tax loopholes to avoid U.S. taxes on $44 billion in otherwise taxable offshore income over the past four years, or about $10 billion in tax avoidance per year. A third subsidiary, Apple Operations Europe, also has no tax residency, according to Apple. Wouldn't you like to have no country of tax residency even as you live and do business in many countries? So would we! Too bad we're not all wealthy global multi-national corporations. Now, in its defense, Apple says the government is misconstruing its non-resident legal entities, which, Apple says, exist for business reasons, not tax reasons. Apple further says that it does not use any tax "gimmicks" at all. Apple also adds that it would be happy to pay more taxes if the U.S. Congress would simplify tax rates and lower corporate income taxes. What's the answer here? The answer is to simplify--and likely lower--corporate tax rates, while offsetting the lost revenue by increasing taxes on corporate shareholders. But somehow we doubt that that will be Congress's message in the hearings.
China is about more than massive infrastructure build-outs. Some things have to come down. "This was the scene in Wuhan as three-and-a-half kilometers of elevated road came down," wrote Bloomberg about this incredible demolition footage.¬† "The viaduct was only built in 1997 as part of the main highway between Shanghai and Tibet. Check out this video from Bloomberg.com:
REUTERS/Stephen CherninForget the college debate: The most driven people may not need their high school diplomas either. Tumblr founder David Karp dropped out of high school at the age of 15 and now his New York startup is about to sell for $1.1 billion in cash to Yahoo. Although his success proves that he didn't need the diploma to make it, Karp tells¬†Forbes' Jeff Bercovici¬†in an interview that¬†he doesn't recommend kids today to drop out of high school, saying¬†"There's a lot that I feel like I missed out on ... just a whole lot of normal, social, childhood kind of stuff that I definitely missed out on." Karp ‚Äî¬†worth more than $200 million ‚Äî¬†isn't the only person to make it big without finishing high school. He belongs to a special breed, which includes¬†Virgin's Richard Branson and Mike Hudack, founder of Blip.tv.
The relative calm in recent weeks belies the huge distortions that continue to plague the global economy and markets. Michael Hartnett, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Chief Investment Strategist, recently published a report loaded with unconventional charts intended to communicate how the world is changing. In a slide titled "The new Berlin Wall," Hartnett presented this chart showing how German bond and stock prices have surged as the young people in Portugal, Italy, Greece, and Spain have suffered. Many consider this a reflection of how the euro has failed those in its currency bloc. Bank of America Merrill Lynch Unfortunately, Hartnett sees a very similar trend within in the U.S. where stock and bond prices have rebounded sharply benefiting the investing class even as increasing numbers of Americans watch from the sidelines. "Risk is bubbles and Robin Hood policies that curtail the demand and supply of credit," wrote Hartnett. Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
One of the schools devastated by the tornado in Moore, Oklahoma is Plaza Towers elementary. Here's what it looks like in normal times. Mooreschools And, via KFOR, here's what it looks like now. KFOR-TV
Mother Jones' Clara Jeffrey posts this stunning before/after photo of Moore, Oklahoma, where a massive tornado has leveled buildings (Click on the image to see full-size). :( Moore, OK before and after: twitter.com/WithDrake/stat‚Ä¶
A local Tennessee TV station says it has time-lapse footage of the massive tornado that ripped through Oklahoma City today. At least one elementary school was said to have taken a direct hit.¬† Here's the clip:
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 6 Things Traders Need To Do To Improve Their Consistency (The Kirk Report) Traders should focus on consistency. To do this, Charles E. Kirk writes that traders need to do six key things. 1. "Have a consistent daily routine." 2. "Adopt and maintain a consistent strategy." 3. "Simplify, simplify and simplify more." 4. "Track what you do everyday." 5. "Flowchart everything." 6. "Set your rules and follow the rules." Leon Cooperman: 'Everyone Is Moving Up The Risk Curve' (Barron's) Investors have been chasing yield for some time. Leon Cooperman and Steve Einhorn of Omega Advisors told Barron's that investors are moving up the risk curve.¬†  What are you seeing as far as investors looking for more yield?Cooperman: Everyone is in the process of moving up the risk curve. We have an investor who put all of his money in T-bills when he retired, because he didn't want duration risk or credit risk. So for the guy who bought T-bills, he can't get any return anymore, so he migrated to T-bonds. The guy who bought T-bonds has migrated into industrial credits. The buyers of industrial credits have migrated into high yield. The high-yield buyers have migrated into structured credit, where we are now in our credit exposure at Omega, and the structured-credit people are increasingly looking at equities. So everybody is moving up the risk curve.  That helps equities, no doubt?Einhorn: There is no effective alternative to common stocks and people are getting fatigued sitting on cash earning zero and bonds, which have such unattractive returns.  In Just Two Charts, You'll Understand Why Gold Is Crashing (Credit Suisse) Gold prices have been taking a hit since April. This is because of 1. A decline in risks from Europe which is proxied by charts showing declining yields on Spanish and Italian 10-year notes, and 2. Normalizing interest rates in the U.S. Credit Suisse 69% Of Global Investors Think Income Investing Is A Priority (Advisor Perspectives) Legg Mason's survey of "affluent investors" in North America, Europe and Asia showed that income is a priority for global investors. 69% of global investors said that "that investing in income generating products is an extremely important or important priority. Another 23% say it is at least somewhat important." 80% of investors said they wanted to know more about income investing.  Doug Kass: Here Are My 31 Favorite Books On Investing (Business Insider) Doug Kass gave us his 31 favorite books on investing. Byron Wein called the reading list "terrific." Some of the titles include 1. "The Most Important Thing" by Howard Marks. 2. "The Money Game" by Adam Smith. 3. "It's Earnings That Count" by Hewitt Heiserman, Jr. 4. "Bailout Nation" by Barry Ritholtz. 5. "The Big Short" by Michael Lewis.

Dean Souglass via FlickrNational home prices are down 29.1% since their Q1 2006 peak. But over the next five years they are expected to rise 3.9%, according to the latest CoreLogic Case-Shiller report. We drew on the latest data to identify the best housing markets for the next five years. The top 15 cities are ranked by the projected annualized change in home prices between Q4 2012 and Q4 2017. We also included the median home price, median household income, unemployment rate, and the change in home prices since their peak, to offer a broader view of the local economy and housing market. Note: The median family income and home price is for Q4 2012. Unemployment data is as of February 2013, and population data for the metros is for 2011.
Reuters/ Steve MarcusBloomberg News reports¬†that billionaire hedge fund manager Steve Cohen is said to be considering a deal that would shut his Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital to outside investors. He's also considering returning outside investor money and turning¬†SAC into a family office, Bloomberg reports citing an unnamed source familiar with his thinking.¬† The firm has about $15 billion in AUM. ¬†About $9 billion of that belongs to Cohen and SAC Capital employees. The rest is outside investor capital.¬† It's known that Cohen is the ultimate target of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice's crackdown on insider trading. ¬† In the insider trading case against former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, Cohen has been identified as¬†"Portfolio Manager A."¬† Even though he has been implicated, he has not been charged with any wrongdoing. ¬†He may never be charged. ¬†He has maintained that¬†he acted appropriately.¬†¬† What's more, is under the statute of limitations for insider trading, if the government were going to bring additional charges in this particular case¬†they would have to do so by mid-July.
Getty Images/Alex WongElizabeth Warren speaks at the Democratic National Convention.Elizabeth Warren made headlines last week for saying that she believes students should pay the same rate for loans as big Wall Street banks, 0.75%. The Obama administration extended the 3.4% interest rate on subsidized federal student loans last year, but that measure is set to expire in July, leaving room for reform. The House Republicans, The President's Office, Democratic Senators Jack Reed (D-R.I.) and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), and Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) all have their own plans on the table. Think tank The Brookings Institute laid down each plan one by one. The only one it doesn't take seriously at ALL is Warren's. From Brookings: Sen. Warrenís proposal should be quickly dismissed as a cheap political gimmick. It proposes only a one-year change to the rate on one kind of federal student loan, confuses market interest rates on long-term loans (such as the 10-year Treasury rate) with the Federal Reserveís Discount Window (used to make short-term loans to banks), and does not reflect the administrative costs and default risk that increase the costs of the federal student loan program. Setting aside this one embarrassingly bad proposal, the remaining proposals raise a set of questions that need to be answered in order to select the ideal policy... Ultimately, Brookings advocates for (shocking) a compromise. The Obama plan allows the rate to move with market conditions (as does the House Republicans'). The two plans differ in that Obama does not want the rate to vary over the life of the loan (House Republicans do). Durbin and Reed's plan looks a lot like the House Republican plan, but puts a cap on interest rates and uses a different benchmark for the rate ó the 91-day Treasury rate plus a percentage determined by the Education Secretary to cover administrative costs rather than 10-year Treasury Bonds. But again ó Warren's proposal is going nowhere.
imdbToday was pretty spectacular for precious metals investors. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Getting fired is scary. Having no money is scary. I've been fired many times. Sometimes I've been a bad employee. Sometimes I've had a boss. Either way, terror would strike in the middle of the night.¬† I would pace at three in the morning. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm going to lose this house. My kids are going to switch schools. I have three months to live. I‚Äôm going to lose this house. I‚Äôm going to this and that and this/that.‚Äù¬† The chatter doesn‚Äôt stop and its nightmarish at three in the morning. And at four, and at five, and it doesn‚Äôt stop when the kids wake up and they don‚Äôt know anything is different but I cry then because everything is different. Because the house is a prison. Because my head is a mental asylum. No advice helps. You can‚Äôt meditate. You can‚Äôt exercise. You can‚Äôt eat healthy. You can‚Äôt shave. Or bathe. You can‚Äôt even take deep breaths. They feel like bullshit breaths. Shit breathes in and shit breathes out. You can‚Äôt pray or read spiritual texts. None of that stuff helps, you think. None of that immediately¬†deposits money in the bank. None of that brings back your self-esteem which was so randomly stolen from you by faceless bureaucats living on the outskirts of cubicles. So here‚Äôs advice that helps. I hope you follow it because I know it worked for me: Do just one thing today. And then do one thing tomorrow. And the next. That‚Äôs all.¬†Just one thing a day.¬†If you do your thing, then feel good. You did it. Tomorrow you do the next thing. THAT‚ÄôS ALL YOU NEED TO DO. Some preliminaries: First, you need to sleep. Make sure you sleep 8 hours a day, every day. And you can‚Äôt drink. Delete your news-intake. You don‚Äôt need news now. Things are bad. But they aren‚Äôt as bad as they seem. The media lies every day about how bad things are. Trust me. And then do one solid thing each day. Here are some possible ‚Äúone things‚Äù: Schedule¬†a lunch with someone you haven‚Äôt seen in three years. Could be anyone. But it has to be someone you haven‚Äôt seen in at least three years. This injects new blood into the system. You need a total transfusion to get rid of the infected old blood. Ideas. Find your ‚Äúcustomers.‚Äù Treat yourself like a one-man business. Make a list of customers (i.e. places or people you might want to work with) Then come up with a list of 10 ideas for each customer/place you might want to work. Ideas that can make them money. This way you keep your idea muscle intact.¬†¬† Don‚Äôt let your idea muscle atrophy! Pitch your ideas to that customer if you can. If you can‚Äôt , move onto the next customer. But wait until tomorrow. You did your thing for today. Be proud. THIS TECHNIQUE WORKS. Its worked for me. Gratitude. Make a list of the people you‚Äôve worked with over the past ten years that you are grateful you worked with. Email them and tell them why you were grateful you worked with them. Ask them sincerely how they are doing. This is one of the most important things on this list. Wake up¬†early, exercise, take a shower, wear a suit, go into the city, and walk around. Smell that freshness on you. It makes you feel as if you are ready for anything. And you are. That‚Äôs all you need to do that day. Heck, go to a museum. You won‚Äôt have this opportunity for freedom forever. Slash. Make a list of all expenses you can slash. Make your runway as long as possible. There are plenty of sites to advise how to do this. Picture your worst-worst case scenario. Its never as bad as you think. Write it down. Write down the plan for the worst-case scenario. Then take a nap. You just had a hard day. You need to rest. Lunch, part II.¬† Have lunch with one person in your industry. Have your ideas ready for that person. Have him critique your ideas. Learn. Reconnect. Contact other people who used to work at your old company. Maybe they even worked there ten years ago. Reconnect. Come up with ideas for them. Write. Write a book in the next three days. You can write a 30 page book about dieting (‚Äú100 ways to Lose 100 pounds‚Äù) and put it on sale on Amazon in one day. Why not? The traditional book industry is over. Write the book ‚Äú100 things to do the day after you are fired‚Äù. Make it funny. Time to dominate the publishing industry while you are unemployed. Today make a list of all the possible 30 page books you can do. Then tomorrow start one of the books. I have one friend who just self-published a book. He was dead broke before that after being fired from his job. He made $100,000 in 90 days. No joke. This was about a month ago. Resentment. You are going to feel resentful about people at your old job. They wronged you. But listen closely: they are just trying to survive also. They aren‚Äôt different from you and me, no matter how much you feel they wronged you. You need to make a list of all the good qualities that person has and send them an email why you think they are good at what they do. Thank them. Brainstorm.¬† Go completely in a different direction. What other industry can you work in? What other location can you live in? Make up the wildest fantasies about what you can do. Keep going until there is one possible direction you can execute on today. Brainstorm what blog you can do (and what products you can sell on the blog). Brainstorm about photography (anyone need a photographer this weekend?). Brainstorm about ecommerce (check out penny auction sites where you can buy stuff for pennies and resell on Ebay). I don‚Äôt know. I‚Äôm making stuff up. But brainstorm for an hour and some little slice of reality might peak through. Remember: just one thing a day at first. Some of these things above seem crazy. But I‚Äôm not recommending anything that I haven‚Äôt done and made money doing. All of them. Corporate stability has always been a myth. But¬†entrepreneurship¬†and risk is also a myth. We were never without risk. Risk is life. But now you are forced to embrace it. The good thing is, sometimes embracing leads to love.
REUTERS/Luke MacGregor UKIP, the upstart anti-EU/anti-immigration party that has been causing a stir in the U.K., has come just two points below Britain's traditionally dominant right wing party in a new poll. The poll is the lowest result seen yet for the Conservatives, and the highest seen for UKIP, Political Betting's Mike Smithson points out† ó part of a wider trend if we look at the last few years of data. Here's what the poll from Survnation looks like: General Election Voting Intention, Change Since†Survation poll, May 1st Conservative: 24% (-5)Labour: 35% (-1)Liberal Democrat: 11% (-1)UKIP: 22% (+6)Other: 8% (nc) According to†Survnation's Damian Lyons Lowe, UKIP and the Conservatives were neck and neck at 23% before the group adjusted for those who answered 'don't know' or refused to answer. Crucially, this is the first poll Survnation has conducted since the weekend's report in the Telegraph that a close ally of Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron had called Tory activists (many of whom sympathize with UKIP) "swivel-eyed loons." UKIP's apparent success comes despite a number of scandals that have engulfed the party, from the member who was allegedly photographed making a Nazi salute to party leader Nigel Farage hiding in a pub to escape an angry crowd calling him "racist scum." The poll gives Ed Miliband's Labour Party a comfortable lead, which lies with Nate Silver's early prediction. The next general election in the U.K. is set for 2015.
We're giving you a chance to win a¬†Kindle Fire HD. ¬†Become a newsletter subscriber now¬†to enter. ¬†If you're the lucky winner you will have a host of features at your fingertips. ¬† Entry deadline is May 31. As a newsletter subscriber, you'll get daily updates and alerts on topics that matter most to you.¬†You must subscribe to at least one newsletter to be eligible, so if you haven't already, be sure to choose one or more before submitting your entry. On or after May 31, 2013, we'll announce the lucky winner. You must be a legal resident of the U.S. and a newsletter subscriber to win.
The drama in tech mogul John McAfee's life never seems to end. The Belize compound where he lived before he snuck out of the country to avoid talking to police about a murder was burned to the ground last week. No one was hurt. Officials in Belize said the cause of the fire was burning brush nearby. McAfee, who is never one to shy away from a conspiracy theory, said on his blog and in interviews that he thinks it was arson. The two main buildings that were destroyed had an estimated value of $250,000 apiece. On his blog, McAfee said that an investment firm was set to buy the property this week,†but on a Q&amp;A interview on Slashdot.org, he seemed to contradict himself, saying that, "That was my last property in Belize, went up in smoke. It's a very freeing sensation to have no burdensome taxes to pay or wages for upkeep and electricity and what have you. So they did me a favor." McAfee, who founded the antivirus software company of the same name, was once among the super wealthy with a net worth of more than $100 million. But his personal fortune took a nose dive to about $4 million after the 2008 economic collapse, reported the New York Times in 2009. McAfee's life in Belize became an epic tale late last year after his neighbor, an American citizen named Gregory Faull, was murdered. Police wanted to question McAfee about it. Instead, McAfee fled in James-Bond-like style: His escapade involved hiding in the jungle with one of his girlfriends, faking his own capture, faking a heart attack, all while blogging about it and taking along a journalist and camera crew, too. In between, the details of his life in Belize leaked out which were equally bizarre. He lived with a "harem" of young women, from nine to a dozen, some of which he said were presented to him as 16-year-old prostitutes. There was also speculation that he used an odd drug called MDPV. He eventually landed in Guatemala and was extradited to the United States. He lives in Oregon and was never charged with anything in connection with Faull's death.
Goldman Sachs bought a stake in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China before it was cool ‚Äî before it had the 2nd largest IPO in the history of the world in 2006, and before it was the largest bank in the world by market cap. Initially, Goldman owned 4.9% of the bank, whose stock is up 22% over the year. The stock's up 57.95% since its listing on exchanges in Shanghai and Hong Kong. And adding to that good news, last month, despite signs of a slowdown throughout China, ICBC reported a 12% increase in Q1 profit, according to Bloomberg. But not even love like that lasts forever. Goldman has been unwinding its position in this stock for years, and today the Wall Street Journal reported that the affair is officially over. Goldman could raise $9.7 billion selling its remaining ICBC shares. It sounds like a lovely goodbye, but the relationship between Goldman and ICBC has been rocky. Goldman sold stakes in the bank five times since 2006, each time analysts have pointed to a variety of reasons ‚Äî simply raising cash being one of them. Another was that ICBC is a volatile stock ‚Äî in 2010 the Goldman made $747 million on its stake. Then by late November of 2011, it had lost $905 million on the stock and was selling $1.54 billion of its stake, Reuters reported. From a Reuters piece in 2011:  "It's likely a reflection of Goldman's own desire to book some profit and hedge their risk rather than a negative view on Chinese banks," said Warren Blight, lead analyst for Chinese bank research at Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods in Hong Kong. That's definitely what the Chinese government wanted to hear, but those are just words. What matters is what the government saw ‚Äî banks like Bank of America and RBS selling stakes in their massive state-owned banks. For a clue as to how much China didn't (and doesn't) like this, know that Goldman's lock-up period for selling its ICBC stake was, initially, that the stock would become free in equal¬†installments on April 28, 2009 and October 20, 2009. That was then changed to an agreement in which Goldman would not be able to sell 80% of its ICBC holding until April 2010. "Today's announcement underscores our firm‚Äôs confidence in ICBC and our¬†commitment to China. We look forward to working closely with ICBC, one of the most important financial institutions in the world, and further developing our strategic cooperation,‚Äù said Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein in a release at the time. But again, those are just words, and even as the ICBC outperformed, Goldman carried on with its sales. As equities around the world have surged, Goldman hasn't needed ICBC to make a tidy sum in its investing and lending portfolio. In Q4 2012, ICBC stock made up 42% of Goldman's equity securities revenue ‚Äî all told, the bank made $1.9 billion in investing in lending. Then, in Q1 2013, ICBC contributed just 2% of Goldman's equity securities revenue ‚Äî all told, the bank made $2.1 billion in investing and lending. You can check it out from the table below from Goldman's quarterly report. Goldman Sachs All that said: It's hard to argue, as analysts have before, that these sales don't mean that Goldman is seeing serious issues with China's banking system. Yes, ICBC can point to positive earnings numbers in its last report, but China bears like hedge fund manager Jim Chanos think that's all smoke and mirrors anyway. The real question at hand, he believes, is the health of Chinese credit ‚Äî are loans being made, and how are they performing? When you ask that question, you get a different story than you do by just looking at Chinese bank earnings numbers. Non-performing loans rose by 64.7 billion yuan ($10.4 billion) to 492.9 billion yuan at the end of 2012. Meanwhile, even as credit expands, it's getting more expensive to get a loan in China, GDP growth is slowing, and the shadow banking sector is growing as well, making it hard to track where everyone's money is going and how its performing. That's why usually stoic government officials are actually speaking out about how worried they are. From an FT story last month: A senior Chinese auditor has warned that local government debt is ‚Äúout of control‚Äù and could spark a bigger financial crisis than the US housing market crash. Zhang Ke said his accounting firm, ShineWing, had all but stopped signing off on bond sales by local governments as a result of his concerns... ‚ÄúIt is already out of control,‚Äù Mr Zhang said. ‚ÄúA crisis is possible. But since the debt is being rolled over and is long-term, the timing of its explosion is uncertain.‚Äù The government will prop up banks if everything goes wrong, but FT's Jamil Anderlini points out that a Lehman-style run isn't the only way the Chinese banking sector could go down. There are a lot of ways to skin a cat, and in this instance, Anderlini says that a banking crisis in China could come the same way it did in the 1990s (but bigger and badder). Banks will be bogged down with tons of non-performing loans but the government will force them to lend anyway. They'll expand the country's credit without contributing to real growth. The banks, in essence, will become zombies. So it's possible the Goldman got out before ICBC ate its brains.
CFTC, UBSGold prices are up modestly today, but continue to be near their lows of the year. "Downward pressure on gold continues and we are now back to levels post the mid-April selloff," said UBS's Edel Tully in a note titled Gold Shorts Dominate.¬† "Investor sentiment remains negative as highlighted by the persistence of ETF selling and the extension of speculative shorts to an all-time high." Check out the chart to the right. "The gross short position in gold now sits at a record 14.3moz, nearly double the levels at the beginning of the year," added Tully. "Meanwhile, gold gross longs declined for a fifth consecutive week to 21.3moz, representing a 21% decline year-to-date." Here's some historical context via FinViz: FinViz
Alex Davies reports on a new study which concludes that the age of driving in America is over. It just so happens that fresh data on monthly motor vehicle miles driven is out today, and with that data we can compare total US monthly vehicle miles against the US population. As you can see, per capita miles driven peaked just before the recession, and hasn't recovered at all. FRED Does this chart look familiar to you? It reminds us of the chart of the Labor-Force Participation Rate (the share of workers working or looking or work), which also started sliding before the recession, and hasn't stopped sliding at all during the recovery. FRED There's a logical connection between the two. Not in the workforce? You're less inclined to drive.
Shares of Herbalife are ripping today with the†nutrition supplement seller's stock last trading up more than 8% at $48 per share. We haven't seen any news on the stock, yet. Herbalife is one of the most controversial stocks†and it has generated a great deal of dicussion on both the long and short side. † Back in December, hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, publicly announced that he's shorting more than 20 million shares of the stock.†Ackman believes the company is a "pyramid scheme" and has a price target of $0.† Not everyone has agreed with him, though.† Ackman's rival Carl Icahn snapped up a massive stake in Herbalife. †Icahn owns more than 16 million shares of Herbalife. † The stock is trading well above the level when Ackman revealed his short at a special Sohn Conference event in mid-December. † Here's a chart:† Yahoo! Finance
Corruption is an ongoing problem that many in business acknowledge is all around them. Ernst &amp; Young's annual international fraud survey, which covers Europe, the Middle East, India, and Africa, found that 42% of board directors and senior managers are aware of some sort of irregular financial reporting, that more than half of respondents think corrupt practices are "widespread" in their country.¬† And many of the pressures and oversights that cause corruption have intensified.¬† Managers are under large and growing pressure to deliver results in an environment that's not particularly friendly. When you can't deliver results on your own, you're more likely to try to fudge the numbers, overlook over reported numbers from employees, or avoid calling out things like bribery: ¬† Ernst & Young A few psychological points support that. First, pressure causes "tunnel vision," a singular focus on results that pushes ethical considerations aside. Additionally, accepting small nudges of numbers once can make people more inclined to let larger fraud happen later.¬† Additionally, there's steady downward pressure on wages, which can increase the incentives for fraud. Ernst & Young The combination is particularly worrisome. Direct pressure to provide results and worries about personal compensation can lead to increasing fraud.¬† Further, there's a serious and worrying gap between the way management and employees on the ground see efforts to stop corruption. Managers tend to overrate how effective compliance problems are compared to their employees, and are more inclined to believe that employees can safely come forward than the people that are expected to actually do so.¬† And though many are willing to acknowledge the problems of corruption in their industry or country, they tend to deny it in their own companies.¬† The combination of pressure, greed, and a "see no evil" attitude creates small problems that can turn into big ones.¬†
Reuters/Kevin BartramAmerican households are under stress again, according to the latest consumer distress index by CredAbility. ‚ÄúDespite the growth in jobs and an improved housing market, our index shows that the average U.S. household has seen little improvement in the past year and took a step back in 2013‚Äôs first quarter,‚Äù according to Phil Baldwin, CEO of CredAbility. Baldwin is referring to the rise in payroll taxes at the start of the year, which has forced people to save more. CredAbility adds that 49 million people are still on food stamps, and nearly 12 million are still unemployed. American households on average scored 70.73% in the Q1 Consumer Distress Index, down from 71.77% in Q4. A reading below 70% indicates a state of financial distress. The report measures¬†financial distress in households in metro areas with a population of over 2 million, measuring employment, housing, credit, household budgets, and net worth.
APAs you may know, Warren Buffett loves all things American as apple pie. You may also know that his holding company, Berkshire Hathaway, owns Dairy Queen ‚Äî not quite apple pie, but close. That is why, if you happen to be in Omaha from 5:30-6:30 pm today, the Oracle himself, along with¬†John Gainor, the CEO of Dairy Queen, will serve the first ever S'mores Blizzard the restaurant chain is launching officially on June 1st. It's all a part of their new, "Fan Food. Not fast food" campaign, which also includes a $5 lunch at some DQ locations. What we're wondering is how many Blizzards Buffett will serve. Is it just the one, meaning only one person will get the pleasure of being served by a billionaire or can everyone jump in here?
Silver got slammed last night when futures markets re-opened to begin the week. At its lowest level, the precious metal had fallen nearly 9% to $20.25 an ounce. Remarkably, it's already staged a big comeback, and it just turned positive on the day. In the past few minutes, it's screamed higher, and is now trading around $23.00, up 2.7%. Miller Tabak's Jonathan Krinsky offers some commentary on why the details of the sell-off may actually be positive for those bullish on gold and silver: The other interesting action, which started last night, has been the precious metals. After being down over 8% at one point, Silver has nearly recovered the entire decline. Gold has actually gone into positive territory. If you are a Bull on precious metals, there are some positives in that type of action. First, Gold did NOT make a new low with Silver overnight. The low of 1338 was slightly higher than the April 16th low of 1322. That could be considered a non-confirmation and ‚Äúpotential‚Äù bullish divergence.Also note that even as Silver made a new low by a wide margin, RSI does not appear to be doing so, another non-confirmation. Of course none of this means the medium or long-term trends have changed, they are still quite bearish. It does, however, open up the potential for a short-term bounce. The chart below shows the price action in silver today. FINVIZ.com The next chart is a bit more zoomed in and shows the vertical move in silver in the past few minutes. Thinkorswim
We recently discovered the awesome Twitter feed of historian Michael Beschloss, which is mainly cool historical photos. Last night, Michael tweeted a great photo of the New York skyline in 1947. This morning, it's a picture of Amelia Earhart in 1932, just after she became the first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic. Beschloss says the picture was taken 81 years ago today, as Earhart was getting ready to leave Newfoundland.¬† via Michael Beschloss
VISO Trailers / YouTubeWhat are we to make of the current state of the stock markets and the fundamentals driving them? Earnings growth expectations are weak, manufacturing activity is decelerating, the dollar is strengthening, commodity prices are deteriorating, and business spending is anemic. Yet stocks have been rallying. In a new research note titled "Remember The 80s?" Deutsche Bank's David Bianco reminds us that these dynamics are not unprecedented. "1967, 1985-86 and 1995 have the weakest economic mid-cycle manufacturing ISM since 1960," he wrote.¬† "We see 1985-86 as very similar to now: a stronger dollar and weaker commodity prices, soft business spending and weak exports. This caused 1985-86 to have the weakest non recession EPS growth. Yet, the S&amp;P delivered strong gains as its PE expanded from about 10x in 1984 to 15-17x by 1986 as investors became more trusting that inflation risks had dissipated and accepting of secularly lower interest." Check out how the PE surged during that period. Deutsche Bank All of this speaks to the nature of the stock markets, which can often appear irrational. But don't interpret this commentary as Bianco being bullish.¬† His year-end and 12-month targets for the S&amp;P 500 are both 1,625, which compares to the 1,667 level we're seeing today.¬† He also expects the next 5% move in the stock market to be down.
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderOn Friday, we went to the Fishermen's Conservation Association's 15th annual Manhattan Cup ó a "catch and release" charity tournament. The event raised funds and awareness for the Wounded Warriors Project, superstorm Sandy relief, Hooked-for-a-lifetime (taking inner city kids fishing), Catch A Cure (cystic fibrosis research), Grace Foundation (helping families with autistic children), Jacob' s Team (autism awareness and support) and many beach clean up efforts. † The FCA bills it as a fishing tournament where participants "represent a veritable whoís who of Wall†Street and the 'pro fishing' circuit." We met a bunch of professional fishermen and a handful of Wall Streeters. We're told by a well-connected Wall Street source that it's an event big names on the Street "quietly support." †For example, the source told us that a well-known money manager lent his boat for a team to use for the day and he's been supporting the event for years. † "It's very informal, not like Robin Hood," our source explained referring to the†philanthropic organization backed by Paul Tudor Jones and other top hedge fund managers.† Per our source, Wall Street's involvement with the Manhattan Cup goes back to when a bunch of the traders and hedge funders used to go fishing with Capt. Frank Crescitelli, who is the chairman of the FCA's board.† These Wall Streeters would go with Crescitelli early in the morning before going to the office. †Our source said he used to go fishing with him at 4:15 p.m. right after the closing bell. † There were apparently some tough years right after September 11th when the Hudson River was off limits and people moved out of downtown and then when the financial crisis hit and a lot of folks lost their jobs. † He noted that this year was challenging because superstorm Sandy wrecked the marinas in Staten Island, but it was still a "tremendous accomplishment" to have so many boats and people turn out this year. † There were about 50 boats and around 200 anglers fishing in the Manhattan Cup. † We checked out the event at Chelsea Piers and if you missed it, we've included highlights in the slides that follow. †
REUTERS/Sherwin CrastoGold prices continue to take a beating with futures at $1,354 an ounce. Marc Faber, publisher of The Gloom, Boom and Doom report, told Talking Numbers that he is buying physical gold and will buy more if it hits the $1,300 mark. But, he said that he isn't keeping it in the U.S. "I bought gold at $1,400, I buy every month some gold, and I have an order to buy more at $1,300 because I want to keep an allocation towards gold ñ physical gold ñ and not stored in the United States at all times." Here he explains why he isn't keeping it in the U.S. via CNBC and Yahoo Finance: Now you're emphasizing stored outside the U.S.. We're a pretty safe country Marc, why do you have to keep the gold out of here?Well, safe country? Iím not so sure about that under the present government. But in 1933, gold was taken away from Americans. The government paid them $25 and after, they revalued the gold to $35. So, basically what the government can do once again, and that is a possibility. They could artificially depress, manipulate the price down and then say ëGold is illegal to be held. We have to collect all the gold from the citizens.í Say if they manipulated the price down to $1,000. They could collect it at $1,000 and then revalue to $10,000. That's possible but do you believe it is probable Marc? That would be a Black Swan kind of event or a cold swan type of an event for you. That's not your base case.Itís not probableÖ† Correct. Iím not a believer in the manipulation theory. Iím not a believer in all the conspiracy theories. Iím a believer that the market went down because there was a technical break and also because stocks are so strong. So, when people look at their gold and they look at the stock market that goes up every day, they then decide ëGold is dead. Letís buy stocksí because, at heart nowadays, everybody is a momentum player. The fund managers who must outperform the index, the hedge fund guys, the high-velocity trading people, the algorithmic people ñ theyíre all momentum players. What moves up, they chase. What moves down, they sell. Watch the entire interview at CNBC and Yahoo Finance: 
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVEconomist Robert Shiller has argued in favor of the "genuine beauty" in finance. He believes that financial instruments can contribute to a better society because humans have an innate tendency towards generosity. In an interview published by Credit Suisse he says that that finance recognizes "the egotistical side of human nature. This presents potential for conflict." But these are things that he argues neuroeconomics will help shape in coming decade. Here is an excerpt from the interview: You want to use financial instruments to contribute to a "good society," a better world. That sounds, diplomatically speaking, rather bold. Not at all. During the last two years, many innovations in the sector have served to support the "good society." Social impact bonds in the UK, for example. Let's take the Peterborough Prison in northern London, which has extremely high rate of recidivism. The non-profit organization Social Finance reached an agreement with the government for a payment of six million British pounds if recidivism declines to a clearly defined level within a certain period of time. Social Finance then issued a bond. Using the capital raised, measures were taken with the goal of reducing recidivism. If the goal is met, the six million will be distributed to investors. That is a private solution to a public problem. There are numerous other examples. Traditional theories of economics assume a rational, utility-maximizing person. One who is not necessarily interested in "good society. Decades ago, the economist Kenneth E. Boulding showed how far removed we are from homo oeconomicus. People are much more dependent upon each other than the pure utility function would indicate. Generosity also seems to be an inborn trait, as Ernst Fehr at the University of Zurich has shown. People are generous and kind to people who they perceive as such. We want a society that reflects the golden rule: "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you." Of course, people aren't always good, but when generosity is fostered, they become better. Financial instruments can help with this, too. Your wife is a psychotherapist. How do your ideologies differ? She always thinks I need therapy (laughs). Seriously, my original understanding of economics has significantly changed and now includes more psychological components. We have been married for 36 years, we spend a great deal of time together, and we tend to read the same books. Right now, we are very interested in neuroscience, in particular in the subdiscipline of neuroeconomics. These approaches will shape our ideas in the coming decades. ...For example? Ernst Fehr*, whom I just mentioned, scanned the brains of people playing an aggressive game. He found areas of the brain that are active during the feeling of schadenfreude. Many things are preprogrammed in our brains; we function much more automatically than we would like to think. Back in 2011, Robert Shiller wrote of a coming Neuroeconomic Revolution. Neuroeconomists, he said, tried to develop economic theory by linking them to specific structures in the brain. It appears he's increasingly convinced that this will be a very important area of study. *Ernst Fehr is Professor of Microeconomics and Experimental Economics at the University of Z√ºrich. He is known for his contribution to neuroeconomics and behavioral finance. Click here to read the entire interview &gt;
GawkerThe six best math students at the all-boys Browning School on Manhattan's East Side were given bad news, and then worse news. Their math teacher had suffered a heart attack and would not be returning to teach‚Äîthat was the bad news. The worse news was that her replacement did not know calculus. If the students wanted to continue to study calculus, they would have to teach it to themselves. Three of the students decided the task was hopeless. The other three stuck it out. They'd go to class each day and work through the problems in their textbooks. There was no teacher in the classroom at all. Just the three students, trying to teach themselves one of the most bedeviling subjects a high school student ever faces. One of the students who kept up with calculus was Jamie Dimon, the guy who would eventually become the chief executive officer and chairman of the board of the largest bank in the country, JPMorgan Chase. At the time, math was not even his favorite subject‚Äîthat was history‚Äîbut it was his strongest. You might think that the administrators and teachers at Browning would be deeply impressed by this academic dedication. But you would be wrong about that. Even though he graduated fourth in his class, Dimon was rejected by Brown University‚Äîin part because of a backhanded recommendation letter written by the assistant headmistress of the school. "His lack of manners, due to his habits of making quick judgments and contradicting others, is greatly improved," the assistant headmistress wrote, according to Duff McDonald's biography of Dimon, Last Man Standing (from which this school days tale is lifted). She praised Dimon's "keen, analytical mind" and his "dedication and seriousness of purpose." But she could not avoid mentioning what she saw as his problem with authority. Dimon was too headstrong to win her unqualified praise. Forty years later, Dimon once again finds himself pitted against the corporate governance equivalent of a legion of assistant headmistresses. A pair of influential shareholder advisory groups, Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) and Glass Lewis, have recommended that shareholders vote to split Dimon's role as chairman and chief executive. The AFSCME Employees Pension Plan, the Connecticut Retirement Plans &amp; Trust Funds, Hermes Equity Ownership Services and various New York City pension funds have issued a shareholder proposal calling on JPMorgan Chase to name an independent chairman.  JPMorgan will announce the outcome of the shareholder vote on Tuesday at the bank's annual meeting in Tampa, Florida. The vote is only advisory‚Äîthe board could still name Dimon to both posts even if the shareholders vote for a split‚Äîbut it is being watched very closely on Wall Street, by investors, and by corporate chiefs across the U.S. Efforts to separate the roles of chairman and chief executive at public companies in the U.S. have been underway for years. The share of companies in the S&amp;P 500 with a split structure has risen to 41 percent in 2011 (the most recent figures available) from 23 percent in 2003, according to a report put out by Deloitte last year. Splitting the roles is much more common outside the United States.The Deloitte report said that in Canada, 55 percent of companies in the Toronto Stock Exchange have independent board chairs. In Germany, 50 percent of companies in the Deutscher Aktien Index (DAX 30) have independent board chairs. In the United Kingdom, 76 percent of companies in the Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE) 100 Index split the roles. Advocates of the split structure claim that this model best positions companies for strong performance and better, more shareholder-friendly governance. A 2009 study by the Corporate Library, a research firm based in Portland, Maine that has since become part of GMIRatings, said businesses with unified CEO-chairmen tend to be less "shareholder friendly." "A board that retains the dual role out of reluctance to challenge a powerful chief executive may not be a strong protector of shareholder interests in other respects," the research firm said. "The two most authoritative positions in a boardroom are the CEO and the chairman. However, when these roles are combined, all the authority is vested in one individual; there are no checks and balances, and no balance of power," Paul Hodgson of GMI wrote in a different, more recent report. The evidence on the governance count is strong, so long as you define "shareholder friendly" as adopting structures approved of by self-styled shareholder advocates. But it remains an open question whether such firms actually perform better in ways that matter most to shareholders, including the performance of the company's stock. There is in fact no strong evidence demonstrating the companies that split the roles of chairman and CEO perform better than other companies. Most academic research shows evidence that splitting the roles improves long-term performance of the company to be weak or nonexistent. Last year, however, a paper by GMI challenged this consensus. That paper showed that while the median shareholder returns for over a one-year period and a three-year period were superior for companies that combined the roles. The returns over a five-year period were better for companies that separated the chair and CEO. The authors of the study conclude that this indicates that separated roles are better for long-term, diversified shareholders. This, however, might be an artifact of the study's timing, since the five-year period included the financial crisis in which many financial companies with unified roles suffered tremendous losses. One reason that splitting the chair and CEO might not perform as well as advocates expect is that board structures in general‚Äîthe number of independent directors, staggered voting, and so on‚Äîdo not appear to have any consistent effect on financial performance. Boards may matter for company performance but the formal structures seem to matter less than is commonly supposed. What's more, separate chairs are not necessarily independent. Many of the companies that have separated the roles wind up choosing ex-chief executives or other retired officers to lead the board. The Deloitte study found that only 21 percent of companies on the S&amp;P 500 have truly independent, non-executive chairs (up from just 9 percent in 2004). Even truly independent chairs may not be the blessing they seem to be. Even if splitting the roles makes it easier for a board to monitor the chief executive, the board must now also monitor another powerful individual‚Äîthe chairman. "The board now must expend effort to ensure that such a chairman doesn't use the position to extract rents from the company and, moreover, that the chairman expends the effort necessary to carry out the post's duties effectively. The board also must ensure that a dysfunctional rivalry does not arise between the chairman and the CEO, both of whom presumably will be ambitious and highly capable individuals," UCLA law professor Stephen Bainbridge has written. Unsurprisingly, not all companies experience the split of the CEO from board leadership the same way. Some companies, particularly those whose stock has been under-performing for long periods, seem to see a boost in stock performance when the roles are split. For others, it makes no difference at all. And at least one study has found that in very complex companies‚Äîsuch as JPMorgan‚Äîthe effect is very small to non-existent. Companies that have the most to benefit from splitting the roles are those that operate outside the spotlight or lack strong directors. It would be hard to imagine a company more in the spotlight lately than JPMorgan. And the board has a strong and independent lead director, Lee Raymond, the former chief executive and chairman of ExxonMobil. But if the evidence in favor of splitting the roles is so weak in general, and weaker still in the case of JPMorgan, why is this year's proxy contest considered to be a close run thing? And why did forty percent of the shares vote for splitting the roles at the last meeting? To answer that, it helps to remember that the Browning assistant headmistress who noted Dimon's "lack of manners." Even though he is obviously far more polished now, Dimon still has‚Äîas McDonald put it in his biography‚Äîa "reputation for being somewhat difficult in the presence of anyone else's authority." He's been a vocal critic of financial reform, directly challenging Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke in a public forum for instance. He's bristled at criticism from Wall Street analysts. And, of course, he initially swatted away questions about the London Whale as a "tempest in a teapot." Dimon and JPMorgan have also become synecdoches for Wall Street, much the way Lloyd Blankfein and Goldman Sachs were a few years ago. The bank and its chief serve as a focus for public ire against the financial sector. In an odd repetition of the aquatic theme, the London Whale is the new Vampire Squid. Taking the chairmanship away from Dimon is seen as a way of showing Wall Street that this time the public means business. In a post titled "Jamie Dimon Needs A Boss," Felix Salmon of Reuters last week tried to make the case for splitting the roles turn on specific critiques of Dimon's chairmanship. Even if Dimon is a great CEO, there's really no evidence at all that he's a great chairman, and JP Morgan's shareholders have the right to install the best possible officeholder in each of those roles. How do we know that Dimon is a bad chairman? Well, there's the fact that there's no good succession planning, for starters. And then there's the board itself, which is basically a bunch of supine muppets, who do as they're told rather than actually representing shareholders and holding the CEO to account. The problem with Salmon's argument, however, is that succession planning isn't just the job of the chairman. It's the job of the board as a whole. If they're failing now‚Äîif they're "a bunch of supine muppets"‚Äîwhy would anyone think installing a powerful non-executive chairman change things around? In point of fact, the board currently enjoys an extensive array of powers that truly controlled boards do not, such as the ability of the independent lead director to call special meetings of the board and of shareholders. Simon Johnson, writing in the Economix blog of the New York Times, cites the London Whale fiasco, in which JPMorgan lost billions by bungling trading and risk-management in a previously unknown division of its Treasury Department, as evidence that JPMorgan has "a serious problem from a shareholder perspective that needs to be addressed through strengthening board oversight." But this is effectively rebutted by Steven Davidoff's piece in the Dealbook section of the New York Times. This is important in the case of JPMorgan, because some have argued that the move is justified in this case for risk management purposes. Included in this group are the funds proposing this resolution, stating that "we believe that independent board leadership would be particularly constructive at JPM," and that the firm's $6 billion trading loss last year had "tainted Mr. Dimon's reputation." But does anyone really think that the JPMorgan board sits with complex spreadsheets looking at the bank's risk positions? Does anyone think it should? Instead, the boards of sophisticated banks control risk by picking the right management. Up until the multibillion-dollar trading blowup last year, Mr. Dimon had a stellar record on risk management. Would an independent chairman really have prevented such a trading debacle? Better risk management is just not one of the things that splitting the chair and chief executive is going to accomplish. In any case, the biggest problem at JPMorgan is really just that the bank remains too big to fail. This status distorts management decisions, blurs the lens through which it views its own risk, scrambles market signals, and ultimately hurts long-term shareholders by encouraging the company to take on too much debt. But that's also not a problem that an independent, non-executive chairmanship is going to solve.
Adam TinworthYahoo! announced this morning that it is buying social blogging company Tumblr for $1.1 billion in cash. Tumblr is a six-year-old company based in New York. It is run by a charismatic 26-year-old entrepreneur named David Karp, who will pocket hundreds of millions of dollars on the deal and has therefore become an object of fascination for the New York tabloids. ("WHO'S THIS YAHOO?") Tumblr allows users to create simple blogs and share words, pictures, and videos. It is one of a handful of massive social publishing platforms created in the past decade ‚Äî a group that also includes companies like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Pinterest. Tumblr's audience is massive. The company's blogs receive 300 million unique visitors per month, and a staggering 120,000 new blogs are created every day (not blog posts ‚Äî blogs.). This mind-blowing traffic has made Tumblr one of the largest digital media companies in the world. The Tumblr deal will vastly increase Yahoo's already huge global audience, expanding it to a staggering 1+ billion users a month. It will also bring a new, younger demographic to the company ‚Äî a group of people who have been born and raised on digital and social media. And, as long as Tumblr continues to grow, it will provide a big new traffic growth engine for Yahoo. Initial reactions to the deal have ranged from raves to pans, with most of the latter coming from the same vision-less pundits who reflexively trash most digital deals that seem expensive relative to historical financial performance. And, certainly, relative to Tumblr's historical financial performance, the deal does initially seem expensive. Tumblr generated about $13 million of revenue last year. It also, presumably, lost money. The same pundits who declared Twitter, Facebook, and Google worthless in their early days glance at these numbers and conclude that obviously the Tumblr deal is just yet another hallucination by idiot managers who don't understand that they're paying good money for nothing. But these criticisms are silly. Yahoo is not buying Tumblr's past financial performance. It is buying Tumblr's audience, demographic, and social and mobile expertise. It is buying a company that has the potential to make Yahoo a growing, relevant Internet behemoth again. It is buying a media property that will likely be able to increase the reach and value of Yahoo's own advertising solutions (namely, search). It is also buying Tumblr's future financial performance, which is expected to be a lot more impressive than it has been in the past. Importantly, Tumblr has only recently focused on generating revenue. According to sources close to Tumblr, the company's revenue target for this year has been $100 million. If Tumblr generates anywhere near that much revenue this year, the price for the deal will start to look a lot more reasonable. And if Tumblr can do $75 million to $100 million this year, it can probably do $200 million next year. At that point, you're talking about 5X to 6X times revenue for a company that will likely be able to generate very high profit margins, because it has no content costs. With that performance, $1.1 billion would be perfectly reasonable price to pay, even if Yahoo gets no other benefits from the combination. Is there a risk that Tumblr could now collapse like MySpace, Geocities, or some of the other deals that skeptics are now citing? Of course there's a risk of that. Many acquisitions fail, especially in the technology business. That's why technology is considered a risky industry ‚Äî because things change fast and red-hot companies can go stone-cold in a matter of months. Tumblr's biggest risk is probably that its traffic has flatlined over the past 6-9 months. If Tumblr's audience has reached its peak, the company's future value will be a lot lower than it would be if the audience continues to grow.¬† Other Tumblr deal risks include integration, culture, and geographic distance. But those who are saying that the existence of risk means that Yahoo buying Tumblr is obviously a stupid waste of money don't appear to understand that all deals have risk. They also don't appear to appreciate the situation Yahoo is in. Yahoo ruled the Internet world in the 1990s. Since then, however, thanks in part to management turmoil, the company has missed out on several waves of industry development, from search to social to mobile. As a result, for the past decade, Yahoo has been in a slow state of decline. And now Yahoo has reached the point where it is largely irrelevant to the latest generation of Internet users, who have moved to Google, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Pinterest, Tumblr, and other companies. Given this situation, Yahoo has two choices: It can either give up and run itself for cash flow ‚Äî creating value for shareholders by forgetting about growth, generating as much cash as possible (by cutting costs), and buying back stock. Or it can be aggressive and try to rebuild and re-energize its business and create real value in the process. For now, Yahoo has chosen the latter route. That's why it hired Marissa Mayer as CEO. It would be a waste of Marissa's time and Yahoo's time to give up, sit around, and just return cash to shareholders. And that's obviously not what Mayer and Yahoo are going to do. Yahoo shareholders who just want cash and don't like Yahoo being aggressive are free to sell Yahoo's stock and buy Treasury bonds. Yahoo shareholders who want Yahoo to take the risk of trying to repair itself, meanwhile, have to get comfortable with the fact that risk is just that ‚Äî risk.¬† Yes, the Tumblr bet is risky. Yes, it would be "safer" for Yahoo to hoard and fondle its $1.1 billion of cash, at least over the short term. But when it's late in the fourth quarter and you're losing and you're about to get sacked in your own end zone, it's appropriate to take some risk. Marissa Mayer and Yahoo are taking some risk. They're throwing the long ball. Those who are quick to dismiss this move as idiocy should remember that this is exactly what Yahoo hired Marissa Mayer to do. They should also remember that, based on everything Mayer has done at the company so far, she's the kind of quarterback who is capable of not just throwing but¬†completing the long ball ... SEE ALSO: This Chart Shows The One Reason Yahoo-Tumblr Skeptics May Be Right
APBloomberg reports that CalPers, The California Public Employees' Retirement System, has voted to split the roles of Chairman and CEO at JP Morgan, stripping Jamie Dimon of his dual title. JP Morgan shareholders have been voting on this measure for some time now, and it's been a hot debate for years. Last year 40% of shareholders voted in favor of the split ó but this year, amidst an array of scandals including a $6 billion trading loss last year, Dimon's detractors are gaining more ground than ever. CalPERS is a massive pension fund, and its vote represents 12.92 million JP Morgan shares. Their 'split' vote isn't a huge surprise, as a CalPERS spokesperson called Dimon's dual roles a "fundamental conflict" earlier this month. Still, This is exactly the kind of news Dimon and his supporters have been working to suppress. Last week, The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (an organization of which JP Morgan is a part) asked Broadridge, the company tallying incoming shareholder votes, to†stop sharing the results with Dimon's detractors. Shareholder then filed an inquiry with the SEC to see if that's even legal. The reason why Dimon's supporters wouldn't want to share how people are voting is that when powerful investors like CalPERS announce that they are voting to split the roles, other investors that feel the same way are emboldened to do the same. We'll have the results of the vote tomorrow, when JPM shareholders meet in Tampa for their annual meeting.
http://www.kurims.kyoto-u.acThis weekend, computer scientist Ted Nelson claimed that mathematician Shinichi Mochizuki†was the man behind Bitcoin.† See, while the digital currency has moved markets and attracted major investors, nobody actually knows who came up with it. The paper describing the system was published under a pseudonym, Satoshi Nakamoto, and people are clamoring to find out who the genius behind the Bitcoin system actually is.† And while there is a mountain of compelling evidence demonstrating that Mochizuki probably isn't Nakamoto, this is still an excellent opportunity to revisit why people are obsessed with the Japanese mathematician ó namely, his rock-star status achieved after publishing a bold proof of one of the thorniest problems in Diophantine analysis: the abc conjecture.† In short, the†abc conjecture†explores the relationships between prime numbers. It's been described as the most important unsolved problem in Diophantine Analysis. Diophantine analysis is a branch of mathematics that works with some of the most simple number systems (like ax + by = 1 or xn†+ yn†= zn) and in doing so explores some of the deepest relationships in math. Some of the earliest work with mathematics ó we're talking ancient Greek number-crunching here ó was with prime numbers, especially the relationships and frequency between them.† The abc conjecture ó a younger problem in the field, originally proposed in 1985 ó is as follows. Take three positive integers that have no common factor and where†a + b = c. For instance, 5, 8, and 13. Now take the†distinct prime factors†of these integersóin this case 2, 5, and 13óand multiply them to get a new number, d. In most cases, like this one, d is larger than c. The conjecture states that in rare instances where†d is smaller than c, it is usually very close to c. Most importantly, the conjecture also shows that there are a finite number of instances of a, b, and c where d is smaller than c.† Mochizuki claims to have cracked this conjecture in a 500-page proof. Even if you didn't catch all of that, solving this would be the necessary missing link for a dozen different, more advanced problems in Diophantine Analysis, and is also linked †to the legendary mathematical problem, Fermat's Last Theorem. So it's not unreasonable to expect that†Mochizuki ó an exceedingly intelligent mathematician whom Nelson thinks had time to complete such an undertaking ó has the brains to be the guy behind Bitcoin.† But even if the evidence doesn't come together, Mochizuki should still he hailed as the guy who potentially cracked one of the most difficult problems in his field, still a huge achievement.†
The chart below, via BofA Merrill Lynch strategist Michael Hartnett, provides an interesting visualization of one of the big themes playing out in global markets right now. Bloomberg TV anchor Scarlet Fu called this her "single best chart" this morning. Citigroup, one of America's largest banks and something of a poster child for the global financial crisis, is taking back ground against Caterpillar, the global construction machinery giant seen as a bellwether for global growth, particularly in China. The chart underscores both the outperformance of the U.S. economy relative to the rest of the world that everyone is buzzing about and concurrent fears over a global growth slowdown in general, a story in which China plays a central role. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, Bloomberg
Saturday morning, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke told graduating Bard College students why he believes the future will be better. In theory, this is a pretty banal argument, especially in a graduation speech. But it looks a little different coming from an conscientious academic. Halfway through the speech, Bernanke presents the evidence of those who argue against this view ‚Äî that actually, our best, most innovative days are way behind us. In a footnote, Bernanke discusses the folks he's really calling out. Among them is Robert Gordon, who last year published a paper highlighting not one but¬†six¬†headwinds that suggest future growth will pale in comparison to the advances of the 20th century's technological advances and subsequent GDP growth. The headwinds are: Here is the chart Gordon uses to make his case, showing real, relative GDP growth over the past few centuries. It's basically what Bernanke is arguing against: CEPR Gordon writes: ...doubling the standard of living took five centuries between 1300 and 1800. Doubling accelerated to one century between 1800 and 1900.¬†Doubling peaked at a mere 28 years between 1929 and 1957 and 31 years between 1957 and 1988. But then doubling is predicted to slow back to a century again between 2007 and 2100. To be honest, it's difficult to say whether Bernanke seals the deal versus Gordon. He basically ends up saying that he doesn't really know what will happen, but that everything has always kept changing, so there's no reason to suspect the future will be any different. As he himself concludes in this less-than-ringing endorsement of coming advances in society, " I wish you the best in facing the difficult but exciting challenges that lie ahead."
The air is just different owning business equity rather than earning a fixed income with a salary.† Can you smell it? I left Goldman in 2004 and have been downwardly mobile, career-wise, ever since.† Iíve also never been happier. Iíve written before that one of the keys to feeling and being wealthy is do something that you love and that you would do regardless of the compensation.† Now, I canít prove the following statements, but I believe them to be true: Working for yourself, in a business you founded, makes it much more likely that youíll do something you love.† Working for someone else, for a salary, makes it much more likely that youíll be asked to come in on Saturdays to work on the TPS reports. ††And, um, Yeeeeahhh, thatíd be great. It weird to say this, but itís true:† Doing the TPS reports for your own business doesnít feel that bad.† Even on Saturdays, itís kinda fun. Doing the TPS reports on a Saturday for someone else, however, encourages the kind of anomic existentialism that puts you in deep communion with the overwhelming sadness of the universe. In life, thereís no getting away from the TPS reports on Saturdays, thereís only a choice about how it will feel.† One of my main arguments for starting your own business is that it feels different. And now for some less important, but still relevant, arguments in favor of entrepreneurship. Taxes  The tax code was written by and for business owners,[1] not by or for salaried employees.† So if youíre ever curious why taxes for salaried employees seem unfair, whereas businesses seem to pay less in taxes, thatís why. Retirement Did you know you can save about 3 times more per year in tax-advantaged retirement accounts if youíre a business owner than you can as a white-collar employee earning a salary, with a 401K plan?† Itís true.† But donít just trust me, look it up on The Google.† The Google never lies. More importantly, many successful business people want to control the timing and conditions of their own retirement, on their own terms.† When you do someone elseís TPS reports, the company gets to ëretireí you when they choose.† When you do your own, you choose.† Not everyone wants to work forever, but for those people who do, business ownership gives you the control and options. † Please see previous post on Entrepreneurship Part I ñ The difference between equity and fixed income And Entrepreneurship Part II ñ Lessons from finance [1] With help from Max Baucusís former Senatorial staffers, of course.

Flickr / FederalReserveIt's going to be another slow week for U.S. economic data releases (especially Monday and Tuesday, when nothing notable is scheduled). However, the real story right now is central banks ‚Äì especially the Federal Reserve, which is far and away the biggest story in global markets right now as investors try to determine whether the Fed is trying to prime markets for tapering of its monetary stimulus programs. Deutsche Bank strategist Jim Reid provides a nice overview of all of the central bank activity going on this week: Bernanke‚Äôs congressional testimony before the Joint Economic Committee this Wednesday will be the highlight in a week where we may learn more about the Fed‚Äôs intentions with regards to potential QE tapering. Indeed, Bernanke‚Äôs speech will be made on the same day as the Fed publishes minutes from its Apr30th/May1st policy meeting which may shed some further light on the FOMC‚Äôs deliberations with respect to asset purchases. In advance of Wednesday, Chicago Fed president Evans will be speaking today, followed by the NY Fed‚Äôs Dudley and St Louis Fed‚Äôs Bullard who will speak on Tuesday - all are voting members of the FOMC this year.  Outside of the Fed, there‚Äôs also a fair bit going on at other central banks. Wednesday will see the Bank of Japan publish its latest monthly policy statement, following the conclusion of its two-day policy meeting which starts on Tuesday. The BoE will be publishing minutes from its last meeting on Wednesday. On Thursday, Draghi will be speaking at an event in the City of London on the topic of "The future of Europe in the global economy" at an event organised by the Lord Mayor. Rounding out the week ahead in policy, the European Council meets on Wednesday where tax policy and initiatives to promote growth are on the official agenda. So, maybe not so much data to look out for until Thursday, when we get flash PMIs from China, Europe, and the U.S. ‚Äì but investors will have plenty of tea leaves to read in the meantime.
In the past, Bernanke explicitly stated that his ultra-easy monetary policy is aimed at driving stock prices higher. Now that they are at record highs, his recent cheerleading could contribute to a melt-up, just as Alan Greenspan did during the second half of the 1990s. We all know how that ended. Greenspan, who was Fed Chairman from August 1987 to January 2006, was a big believer in the high-tech revolution during the second half of the 1990s. His last major speech about this subject was titled ìTechnology and the economy,î on January 13, 2000. Just as technology stocks were about to crash, he said: ìWhen we look back at the 1990s, from the perspective of say 2010, the nature of the forces currently in train will have presumably become clearer. We may conceivably conclude from that vantage point that, at the turn of the millennium, the American economy was experiencing a once-in-a-century acceleration of innovation, which propelled forward productivity, output, corporate profits, and stock prices at a pace not seen in generations, if ever.î Subsequently, Greenspan said that the financial crisis of 2008 was caused by a ìonce-in-a-century event,î i.e., the Lehman bankruptcy! Letís hope that Bernanke wonít regret his latest speech. The S&amp;P 500 is now 6.5% above its previous record high on October 9, 2007. The current bull market seemed to be tracking the previous one (from 2003-2007), raising concerns that 2013 could play out as badly as did 2007. Now the two bull markets are diverging with the current one rising to new highs. Itís much easier now to make the case that the market may be just starting a melt-up, as I discussed last week. †Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Ahead of Schedule. (1) From 666 to 1667. (2) Symbolists vs. strategists. (3) To Hades and back. (4) Secular bear case is harder to make. (5) Illuminati and Numerati. (6) 666 x 3 = 1998. (7) The BRAINEE Revolution. (8) America will export gas. (9) Flood of federal revenues. (10) Are Obamaís scandals bullish? (11) Bernanke is high on high-tech. (12) So was Greenspan. (13) ìRenoirî (+ +). (More for subscribers.)
Reuters/ Steve MarcusFolks are wondering if the government is going to get billionaire hedge fund manager Steve Cohen. The New York Times' Ben Protess and Peter Lattman¬†reported that Cohen received a subpoena last week to testify before a grand jury in an insider trading case against his hedge fund. This action from the feds could be viewed as a signal that the government is ramping up its efforts in building a case against Cohen and his hedge fund, the report said. It's widely known that Cohen, who runs $14 billion Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital, is the ultimate target of the¬†Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice.¬† In the insider trading case against former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, Cohen has been identified as "Portfolio Manager A." ¬†While he has been implicated, he has not been charged with any wrongdoing. ¬†He may never be charged. ¬†He also said he is confident he acted appropriately.¬†¬† All Cohen has to do is make it through the end of July. ¬† Why? Because of the statute of limitations.¬† In this particular case against Martoma, the complaints allege that the insider trading scheme involved information in pharmaceutical companies, Elan Corporation and Wyeth, between the summer 2006 and mid-July 2008. ¬† Under the statute of limitations for insider trading, if the government were going to bring additional charges in this case they would have to do so by mid-July, which is the five year anniversary of the trade. ¬† So if the government doesn't file any additional charges by that time, Cohen can really relax and enjoy himself that¬†$60 million Hamptons summer home he just bought.
Mohamed El-ErianMohamed El-ErianGold has been getting hammered lately, and it's down again today. PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian discusses it in an FT piece titled We Should Listen To What Gold Is Really Telling Us. El-Erian's argument is that essentially gold had a brand and it had a story, and that story was that it would inevitably go up, as central banks stimulated more. But it doesn't take much to change the brand and tell a new story. While lower inflationary expectations and surging equities played a role, the real catalyst for the dramatic price drop was a rumour that Cyprus could be forced to sell its holdings by its European partners. This involved a tiny amount of gold (valued at less than $1bn at the time), but it made investors suddenly pay attention to the possibility of significant supply hitting the markets from other European economies (particularly Italy with holdings of some $130bn). This simple change was enough to bring the gold price down 15 per cent in less than a week. Since then, the metal has struggled to re-establish a firm footing, (it is currently trading at about $1,345 a troy ounce). El-Erian then goes onto liken this to Apple. One moment it's on top of the world, and infallible. And then suddenly the story changes, and people value the company in a completely different way.
Beck Diefenbach, ReutersThe¬†Apple¬†chief executive is likely to be asked to justify why his company reports a 25.2 per cent tax rate, yet pays 15 per cent to the US authorities and then sets aside additional cash for possible future tax liabilities. The complex tax planning, commonplace in large companies, has allowed Apple to avoid criticism leveled at Google and Amazon over their tax affairs. Mr Cook has insisted Apple does not funnel profits abroad. The iPhone-maker has $102.3billion in cash outside the US. To pay a dividend, Apple is borrowing $17billion at home rather than risk huge tax bills, which could be up to $9billion, by bringing its foreign money into the USA. The Apple chief executive is likely to use his appearance to call for a ‚Äúdramatic simplification‚Äù of America‚Äôs tax laws, in a move that could have a dramatic effect on the valuations of UK companies. Mr Cook will lobby for a change in the rules which mean that companies bringing tax back to the US from overseas have to pay 35pc tax on that money. He is expected to petition Senators for a reduction in the levy when he is due be grilled by about the way Apple has moved profits overseas. Mr Cook told the Washington Post: ‚ÄúIf you look at it today, to repatriate cash to the US, you need to pay 35pc of that cash. And that is a very high number. We are not proposing that it be zero. I know many of our peers believe that ‚Ä¶ But I think it has to be reasonable.‚Äù American companies like Oracle have previously called for the repatriation tax to be reduced or scrapped altogether. Such a move would have an impact on companies around the world. Many US companies currently use their overseas cash to buy up businesses overseas, to help them avoid a massive tax bill, inflating valuations across the board. The repatriation tax is thought to have been a factor in MicrosoftÔæís $8.5bn purchase of Skype, which is based in Luxembourg, and Hewlett-PackardÔæís $11.1bn swoop on the British software firm, Autonomy. The row in Washington comes as major US companies including Google and Amazon face a grilling by MPs over the amount of tax they pay in Britain. The Public Accounts Committee is questioning the companies over the way they use loopholes to pay paltry amounts of corporation tax, despite racking up billions of dollars worth of sales in the country.
REUTERS/Stephen CherninTumblr CEO David KarpGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Back in March, hedge fund manager Steve Cohen had a huge week of exorbitant purchases, spending over $200 million on art and real estate. At the time it was seen as a real insult to investigators, who have been circling around him for awhile. So did he screw himself? In a series of tweets, Charlie Gasparino says that SAC insiders thought there would be a deal to put troubles behind the company, but that the art purchase may have blown that up. Charlie Gasparino
From Factset, a cool breakdown of how big hedge funds are invested in this market, based on 13-F filings. Factset
ZeroOne on FlickrThere's a new theme in the global economy and markets: nothing. Like we mentioned yesterday, the economic calendar will be light this week, with almost no market moving data scheduled for Monday. However, market watchers are indeed nervous about at least two things: 1) Earnings growth expectations have stagnated as stocks have continued to rally. This is making stocks increasingly expensive. 2) Deflation risk is back on the radar with inflation measures continuing to surprise to the downside. With economic data softening into Q2, falling prices could become a problem for both the markets and the economy. The deafening silence is the theme of Paul Donovan's morning comment for UBS.† Here's Donovan verbatim from UBS.com: Quiet. Not necessarily peaceful
Flickr / Felipe KatsumataFollowing the DAX's rise to a new record high and the FTSE's rally to its highest level in over five years, Citigroup's Jonathan Stubbs told CNBC that European equities have "rarely" been so appealing to investors. The bank's European equity strategist said on Monday that the pace of downgrades to earnings forecasts is improving which, in the past, has been very positive for stock returns.† "The last five times it has happened we've seen an average equity market return of 30 percent in the following 18 months ñ and that's broadly where we are now," he said. Stubbs pointed out that equities were particularly attractive to bond investors, given the bond market rally since late last year.† (Read More: Europe Higher; Autos Gain, Miners Lag) "Although European equities are up 100 percent since the 2009 lows, and although valuations have got more expensiveÖ European equities have rarely been this attractive to so many investors ñ non-equity investors - as they are today." Encouraging data from the U.S. and Japan helped to push stock markets higher on Monday. Germany's DAX reached an all-time high of 8,449 after the open, and Britain's FTSE 100 rose to 6,739 ñ its highest level since October 2007. Stubbs said Europe's earnings season to date "hasn't actually been that bad." "We have seen week after week of net downgrades ñ 54 weeks in a row of net downgrades in Europe and globally - but European earning expectations have only fallen, in 2012, from 10 percent to -3 percent. So we've seen a very modest pull-back in earning expectations," he said. (Read More: Why This Week Could See Start of Risk-Off) Looking ahead he forecast earnings growth of 10 percent in 2014, adding: "We're coming towards, we think, the trough in the earnings cycle and that's what the market is focussing on as well." He said financials was his preferred sector and added that European banking stocks "will surprise many." "European banks are on this very positive journey fromÖ capital deficit to a capital surplus. That's one of the key themes we think that will sustain outperformance and performance from banks over the next couple of years." (Read More: Central Banks in Focus: Time to Risk It?) - By CNBC's Katrina Bishop, follow her on Twitter @KatrinaBishop
This is a chart that people don't much look at these days. It's updated semi-regularly by Doug Short, and it compares the great US bear market (starting in 2000) with the great Nikkei bear and the Great Depression bear. For awhile all 3 were looking very similarly, but at this point it's clear. The US has broken away from history, and with stocks hitting new highs, doesn't even vaguely resemble the past ones. Doug Short
Here's an intriguing tweet from Jim Cramer today. And my cause today: how ideology and orthodoxy kept you out of this market, and how pundits keep getting away with it. Maybe they hate monetary easing or Obama, or something else, but this has been a theme for the last few years, and it hasn't gone away. So if Cramer is going to spend his days blasting away at the corrosive effects of ideology and orthodoxy on investing, then you should listen.
Reuters/ Steve Marcus(Reuters) - Steven A. Cohen has received a subpoena to testify before a grand jury in a U.S. government insider trading investigation into his hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors, the New York Times reported, citing lawyers and executives briefed on the case. Other SAC executives also received similar subpoenas and the fund itself has received requests for information about its activities, the lawyers and executives told the New York Times. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, declined to comment to the New York Times about the subpoenas. For the full New York Times article, click. Nine current or former SAC employees have so far been charged with or implicated in insider-trading while working at Cohen's fund. In March, the firm agreed to pay a $616 million penalty to settle a lawsuit arising from one of the investigations. A former federal prosecutor, speaking to Reuters on condition of anonymity, said it was not common to seek grand jury testimony from individuals who may be a focus of an investigation, indicating a possible weakness in the government's case against SAC. SAC Capital Advisors, a $15 billion fund, told investors on Friday it would no longer cooperate "unconditionally" with the U.S. government's insider trading investigation. It also said it believes the next few months would be critical in the investigation. An executive with Blackstone Group, the largest outside investor in SAC Capital with about $500 million in client money in the hedge fund, declined to comment on the firm's Friday letter. Outside investors have submitted notices to withdraw $1.7 billion from the hedge fund so far this year because of the insider trading investigation. SAC Capital and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission could not immediately be reached for comment by Reuters outside of regular U.S. business hours. (Reporting by Matthew Goldstein in New York and Sakthi Prasad in Bangalore; editing by Miral Fahmy) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Wikimedia CommonsWith markets hitting new highs, the "b-word" has been getting tossed around a lot more. It's being applied to both stocks and bonds equally. And there's a large contingent of people hate bonds, and think the bond market is a bubble being engineered by Bernanke. But as Paul Krugman has recently pointed out, there's a big flaw with saying bonds are in a bubble. ...the interest rate on long-term bonds depends mainly on the expected path of short-term interest rates, which are controlled by the Federal Reserve. You don‚Äôt want to buy a 10-year bond at less than 2 percent, the current going rate, if you believe that the Fed will be raising short-term rates to 4 percent or 5 percent in the not-too-distant future. But why, exactly, should you believe any such thing? The Fed normally cuts rates when unemployment is high and inflation is low ‚Äî which is the situation today. True, it can‚Äôt cut rates any further because they‚Äôre already near zero and can‚Äôt go lower. (Otherwise investors would just sit on cash.) But it‚Äôs hard to see why the Fed should raise rates until unemployment falls a lot and/or inflation surges, and there‚Äôs no hint in the data that anything like that is going to happen for years to come. So long-term rates are mostly the function of the expected path of short-term interest rates. And right now the Fed is missing its target on both unemployment and inflation (which is below target and fading). So the question is: Why would the Fed be raising rates now, or any time in the near future? And given the miss on the dual mandate, what should short term rates be? If you think bonds are in a bubble, then you should have answers to those questions.
Silver is getting creamed today (to the tune of 4%). Of course, the precious metals have been in a deep bear market for awhile. Worth looking at the big picture for a moment though. With its latest decline, silver is getting very close to hitting levels before it really took off in 2010 (and went parabolic in early 2011). The great story for silver is just about totally over. FinViz
Two big themes continue today: The first is Japanese outperformance. The second is the armageddon for precious metals. Japan's Nikkei surged again, rallying over 2%. Nikkei.com Meanwhile, silver is down over 4% (it was briefly down 8% at the open yesterday). Gold is down about 1.5%. Meanwhile US futures are off a bit, while Europe is mixed. This week shall be fairly light on data, and heavy on central bank chiefs jawboning around the world.
Two big themes continue today: The first is Japanese outperformance. The second is the armageddon for precious metals. Japan's Nikkei surged again, rallying over 2%. Nikkei.com Meanwhile, silver is down over 4% (it was briefly down 8% at the open yesterday). Gold is down about 1.5%. Meanwhile US futures are off a bit, while Europe is mixed. This week shall be fairly light on data, and heavy on central bank chiefs jawboning around the world.
