NEW YORK (Reuters) - Dell Inc appeared to have received competing offers following a $24.4 billion agreement last month to be taken private by its founder and private equity firm Silver Lake, setting up a tug-of-war for the world's No. 3 PC maker. Blackstone Group LP submitted an indicative and preliminary offer ahead of the expiration of a "go-shop" period on Saturday that allowed Dell to explore other options, a person familiar with the matter said. The buyout firm has not yet arranged bank financing, though it has put potential lenders on stand-by, according to a second source familiar with the matter. Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, who has built up a minority stake in Dell and opposes the offer by founder Michael Dell and Silver Lake, also made an offer, according to the Wall Street Journal. Details of the competing offers were not immediately known, but any rival bid would have to prove more appealing than the $13.65-per-share offer of Dell's founder and his private equity partner. Blackstone is offering between $13.65 and $15 a share - trumping Michael Dell and Silver Lake's $13.65 - in a deal that will invite shareholder participation, the Wall Street Journal reported. Blackstone has approached a number of firms, including GE Capital, about financing for the deal, the second source familiar with the situation said. Dell shares closed Friday at $14.14. The firm could finance the deal by selling a piece of Dell's business, the source said. Any rival bid could use a "public equity stub," which gives existing shareholders the option to keep a stake in the company after a buyout, a person familiar with the matter said earlier this week. That person also told Reuters that the company had slashed its internal forecast for fiscal 2013 operating profit to approximately $3 billion - down sharply from the $3.7 billion it had predicted previously. The source added that more details will be illuminated in a proxy filing next week. Blackstone declined to comment while an Icahn representative did not return calls or an email requesting comment. Dell also declined to comment on the profit revision or the offers. It was not immediately clear if other parties had submitted offers for Dell. Michael Dell is trying to re-focus his company on enterprise computing services with the PC market in decline - a difficult transformation that Wall Street analysts have said is better executed away from public market scrutiny. His proposal, which requires approval from a majority of shareholders excluding Dell himself, would end a 24-year run on public markets for a company that was conceived in a college dorm room and quickly rose to the top of the global personal computer business - only to be rendered an also-ran over the past decade as PC prices declined and customers moved to tablets and smartphones. But major shareholders, including Southeastern Asset Management and T. Rowe Price, have protested that his offer undervalues the company and pledged to vote against the deal, which requires a majority of shareholders, excluding the founder, to pass. WHO WILL LEAD? Blackstone had made an aggressive push to recruit Oracle Corp President Mark Hurd to take Michael Dell's place as chief executive, a person familiar with the situation said on Wednesday. But a source familiar with the situation said Hurd has no intention of leaving Oracle. It's unclear what Blackstone intends to do with the company should it submit a bid and win. Analysts have speculated that a buyer could either sell off assets - such as the underperforming PC division that still accounts for about half of revenue - or complete the overhaul Michael Dell began and put the company back on a higher-margin growth track. The New York-based private equity firm conducted due diligence on Dell ahead of the March 22 expiration of a so-called "go-shop" period, which offered interested parties the opportunity to outbid Michael Dell's consortium. Michael Dell returned to the company as CEO in 2007, after a brief hiatus but has been unable to engineer a turnaround thus far. Analysts said Dell could be more nimble as a private company, but it will still have to deal with the same difficult market conditions. Dell executives have said they intended to stick to a strategy of expanding its software and services offerings for large companies, with the goal of becoming a full-service provider of corporate computing services in the mold of highly profitable IBM. The company founder has not said what he would do differently with his company a private entity. Dell was regarded as a model of innovation as recently as the early 2000s, pioneering online ordering of custom-configured PCs and working closely with Asian component suppliers and manufacturers to assure rock-bottom production costs. But it missed the big industry shift to tablet computers, smartphones and high-powered consumer electronics such as music players and gaming consoles. As of 2012's fourth quarter, Dell's share of the global PC market had slipped to just above 10 percent from 12.5 percent a year earlier as its shipments dived 20 percent, according to research house IDC. (This story was corrected in second paragraph to make clear that Blackstone submitted the offer ahead of the deadline on Saturday) (Writing by Edwin Chan; additional reporting by Susan Kelly; editing by Gunna Dickson and Jackie Frank) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Christina Avraam Cyprus has reportedly agreed to a new scheme to tax deposits in order to raise the money to bail out its banks. According to Reuters, a 20 percent tax on deposits over 100,000 euros at the Bank of Cyprus would be levied. That would be coupled with a 4 percent tax across the board elsewhere. However, a subsequent report from the Cyprus News Agency citing a Cypriot official in the capital of Nicosia suggested that throughout the course of the day, Cypriot leaders in Brussels were getting further and further away from a deal with the country's "troika" of creditors at the EU, the ECB, and the IMF. Via Greek newspaper Kathimerini: ‚ÄúWe are not in touching distance of an agreement,‚Äù the official, who preferred to remain anonymous, told the Cyprus News Agency. According to the news agency, the official said that the impasse was a result of the ‚Äúinflexible‚Äù stance of the International Monetary Fund representative in the troika. ‚ÄúEvery half hour, new demands are made,‚Äù the official said. Remember ‚Äî on Tuesday the Cypriot parliament overwhelmingly rejected a tax deposit scheme that was agreed to exactly a week ago. In the first version of the plan, deposits over 100,000 euros were to be taxed at 9.9 percent, while those below that level would have been 6.5 percent. This new version is more progressive. The Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers is meeting tomorrow night to discuss the Cyprus situation. European Commission chief Olli Rehn released a statement earlier on the need to reach a deal this weekend. Any deal will need to be voted on and approved by the Cypriot parliament. Via Peter Spiegel of the FT, here are the comments from Rehn. #EU's Rehn: "Unfortunately, events of recent days have led to situation where there are no longer any optimal solutions available." #Cyprus More #EU's Rehn: "Essential that agreement reached by Eurogroup Sunday evening in Brussels on financial assistance programme for #Cyprus." #EU's Rehn: "European Union stands by them and will help to rebuild the Cypriot economy.‚Äù Not sure this inspires much confidence at this pt.
Why is nothing major being done to address the massive human tragedy that is the European economy? This chart from Danske Bank will give you a good hint. Danske Bank Nothing can get done without the approval of Germany, and frankly, Germany would be insane to mess with the current status quo, given how much its outperforming the rest of the Eurozone. Just insane. Who else can boast that its unemployment rate is substantially below where it was before the financial crisis? So, tight money, low inflation, austerity. It's working great for the country that has the power. UPDATE: Felix Salmon asks what, exactly, the downside would be for Germany to be more accommodative, through a more activist ECB, and a system of greater transfers between nations. This is an interesting question. One aspect of the German social model is that everyone gets work, but nobody gets a raise (or at least they're small). This model only works in a world of little inflation, so it's understandable that Germany is so on guard against anything perceived as inflationary. That being said, you'd think that a stronger periphery would mean stronger export markets. On the flip side, a stronger Eurozone could mean a stronger Euro, which could work against German exporters.
REUTERS/Olivia HarrisThe Telegraph reports that Russian businessman Boris Berezovsky was found dead in the bathroom of his estate in Surrey, England. From the police: "Thames Valley Police has launched an investigation into the death of a 67-year-old man at a property in Ascot, Berkshire. His death is currently being treated as unexplained and a full inquiry is under way.¬† The area around the property has been cordoned off to allow the investigation to take place." Chemical, biological and nuclear experts sent to UK home of dead Russian tycoon Boris #Berezovsky, police say Berezovsky was a fierce critic of the Kremlin and a close friend of Alexander Litvinenko, the Russian dissident who was fatally poisoned with radioactive polonium-210 in London in 2006. (The former KGB agent wanted by the U.K. in relation to Litvinenko's death was poisoned by the same substance.) Ahkmed Zakayev, a Chechen opposition leader and another member of the "London Circle" of exiled Russians, was the target of a mysterious Russian hitman in Britain. BBC News notes that Berezovsky "survived numerous assassination attempts, including a bomb that decapitated his chauffeur." The former Soviet mathematician amassed a fortune selling imported Mercedes and Russian-made cars during Russia‚Äôs privatization of state assets in the early 1990s. He moved to London in 2001 after he helped engineer the rise¬†of¬†Vladimir Putin, who¬†succeeded¬†Boris Yeltsin as Russia's president in 2000. Berezovsky was No.701 on Forbes'¬†2009 billionaires list. However, the BBC reports, costly court cases had recently left him struggling to pay debts. The oligarch recently lost a $6.5 billion legal battle to former apprentice and business partner Roman Abramovich. It was the biggest personal court case in British history. Berzovsky sued Abramovich, saying that the Chelsea Football Club boss intimidated him into selling shares in their jointly-owned oil company, Sibneft, at a "fraction of their true worth." Alexander¬†Dobrovinksy, a prominent lawyer at Moscow-based Alexander Dobrovinsky &amp; Partners, says Berezovsky committed suicide. From¬†RT: ‚ÄúJust got a call from London. Boris Berezovsky committed suicide. He was a difficult man. A move of disparity? Impossible to live poor? A strike of blows? I am afraid no one will get to know now,‚Äù the lawyer said on his social network page. RT notes that Berzovsky's son-in-law¬†said¬†Berzovsky was recently depressed, failing to keep in touch with friends and acquaintances while staying home a lot. "He was a very close friend and a very nice man, very kind to me and to the people around him," Lord Bell, a close friend who had been informed today by Berezovsky's private lawyer, told The Telegraph. Here's¬†The Telegraph's story on his life and¬†here's one published by Agency France-Presse.
REUTERS/Christian Hartmann  In a way, Europe should be thrilled by the week that was because financial markets barely batted an eye at the crisis in Cyprus. But Europe has a problem on its hands that's bigger than Cyprus: The economy stinks. This week we got fresh proof that things are bad or getting worse. In France, the Flash PMI report (which is a mid-month look at the combined services and manufacturing sectors of the economy) came in dismal, with the output index falling to a four-year low. Markiet Meanwhile, Germany's economy is the envy of Europe, but even they are not immune to trouble. You can see its Flash PMI jutted lower this week as well. Markit Meanwhile, the horror show in Italy and Spain continues unabated. This week, Danske Bank economist Frank ÿland Hansen warned that France was beginning to look more like a peripheral country than a core one. Not only is the economy sinking, but from a labor cost/competitiveness standpoint, it's looking PIIGSish. Danske Bank Not only is the European economy a mess, and the second biggest country looking more and more peripheral, there isn't much action being taken to address any of it. Cyprus hasn't made a dent in markets, and it might not. On the other hand, all of the above is a crisis.
REUTERS/Mukhtar KholdorbekovFrom a Cypriot perspective, this week will likely been seen as an incredibly damaging one. Had Cyprus passed some kind of deposit levy early in the week, it might still have a future as a banking/tax haven, albeit one that was weakened. However, now that it's imposing capital controls and closing banks and limiting ATM withdrawals, the scars will likely last for much longer. But actually the rest of Europe should be pretty thrilled with how it went down. In another great post, the pseudonymous fund manager @pawelmorski points out how well markets took all this, and how Europe's confidence seemed to grow throughout the week: First thing to get straight ‚Äì from a Eurogroup point of view, this week has been if not a triumph, a respectable success. Markets held extremely well. Probably best generic Eurorisk indicators are the BTP future ‚Äì since the CDS Ban, one of the few vehicles for shorting Eurozone credit ‚Äì and the Eurozone financials stocks index. BTPs hit their low for the week within a couple of hours of Monday‚Äôs open and closed the week flat; financials did worse, but far from a panic. The ECB‚Äôs marginal lending facility ‚Äì which would be the place where bank funding difficulties would show early ‚Äì remained similarly untroubled. And this despite a week where the policy-making process was essentially ‚ÄúLaurel and Hardy carry a piano upstairs‚Äù (Thx @dsquareddigest) The triumphalism of Eurozone policymakers escalated through the week, with the Eurogroup‚Äôs laconic 45-word statement on Tuesday, and even the comparatively verbose 144 words they added on Thursday. If these messages conveyed that the issue is seen as a local problem, the ECB‚Äôs action Thursday morning to turn Tuesday into ‚Äúdrop dead day‚Äù for Cyprus lawmakers signaled that the EU has no compunction about making things worse for the Cypriots (in the interests of the greater European good, natch). None of this is accidental. If we haven‚Äôt seen much panic out of Europe at large this week, we‚Äôre unlikely to see more this week. This is the second time in recent weeks that it looked like things could "flare up" again. The Italian election in late February provided an opportunity for that, but while stocks there sank hard initially, for the most part nobody has cared since. This really speaks to the stepped up power of the ECB, which since last summer has begun to assume its role as a lender of last resort and backstopper of government bond markets. The economy is still in shambles. So much of the Euro structure is broken. But a week like this can pass in Cyprus, and markets don't go to hell. That's improvement. Read the full post here &gt;
Nine years ago, Cyprus joined the European Union. Today, some in the country appear to be regretting the decision. On Friday, demonstrators again took to the streets to protest the EU's terms for bailing out Cyprus' banking sector.¬† The latest is that some banks, including the country's Laiki Bank, are likely to be wound down, while some depositors could be facing a 25 percent tax on their bank holdings. We reached out to Lionel Worrell, a graphic designer and photographer living in Nicosia, to send us photos he took of the protests. Here is his description of the event, followed by a montage of photos showing the European Union's flag getting torched: ¬† I decided to attend the latest demonstration in front of the Cyprus Parliament in Nicosia, where I witnessed angry employers of Laiki Bank shout at the injustice of potentially losing their jobs along with other citizens. As the days pass and Cyprus begins to run out of time to come up with a solution to this problem, the people become even more distressed about their future in these uncertain times. It is a horrible site to see as the island begins to crumble under the tension, the riot police always being on high alert to prevent any more clashes. Lionel Worrell Lionel Worrell Lionel Worrell Lionel Worrell Thanks again to Lionel for the pics! You can check out his firm W-Designs and Photography out on Facebook, and his updates on the situation on Twitter.
REUTERS/John Kolesidis Last weekend, when Europe announced that to bail out Cypriot banks, there would be a sizable one-off tax on all bank depositors, there was worry about bank runs elsewhere in Europe. Would depositors in Greece, Italy, and Spain start lining up to (further) move their assets into banks in more stable countries, for fear of a similar fate down the line? So far that part of the story hasn't borne out. There are good reasons to think that mechanistically, Cyprus is a one-off. Other Eurozone countries don't have such gigantic banking sectors relative to GDP. And the notion that Cyprus is a haven for offshore Russian money is well understood. But what is a real precedent here is Cyprus getting a tough deal because Angela Merkel is in a re-election fight, and playing tough with Cyprus is politically popular. Her coalition partners and opposition parties have made a big deal of not giving Cyprus a blank check. So Cypriots are told: Tax your depositors or the ECB will let your banks collapse on Tuesday because of German politics. And this is explosive. The above picture is of supporters of Greece's Golden Dawn Party (which is basically a Neo-Nazi party) protesting in front of the German embassy in Athens last night, due to the treatment of Cyprus. The leftist Alexis Tsipras has also been making hay over the treatment of Cyprus, and is doing well in the polls, so this is a common point of agreement for the extreme right and the extreme left. The middle ground New Democracy party ‚Äî the party with which the rest of Europe prefers to play ball ‚Äî can only get squeezed. Meanwhile, Italy faces the risk of another election sometime in the next few months. One of the most salient issues in the February election was the notion that the existing Mario Monti government was just a puppet for Germany and Brussels. Now imagine if elections are held tomorrow against the Cyprus backdrop. The parties that are simpatico with Brussels wouldn't do better. With the ECB at the ready, there are good arguments that financial contagion will be limited regardless of what happens with Cyprus (if it takes the deal, if it goes bust, if it leaves the Eurozone, etc.). But with the economy going to garbage all over the place, this is a big shot in the arm to politicians and parties that are not going to be so friendly towards the status quo.
We've never seen this before, but we doubt it will be the last time. The iPad has now disrupted the traditional protest sign. (The context here is a Cypriot protest in the wake of Russia saying it won't be providing any significant aid to the troubled island nation. Hence, the angry looking Putin image.) REUTERS/Yannis Behrakis 
Wikimedia CommonsAt 1550, the S&amp;P 500 has regained the peak it reached in March of 2000 (when the tech bubble burst) and again in October of 2007 (before the credit crunch hit). But we think the third time‚Äôs the charm: We think the stock market still has room to rise because equities are now more attractively valued¬†and¬†of higher quality than they were at previous peaks. The price is right.¬†The S&amp;P 500 now trades at about 13.7 times consensus estimates of this year‚Äôs earnings‚Äîbelow its price multiple in October 2007 and much lower than in March 2000, as the¬†display¬†below shows. So stocks are priced attractively, in our view. Companies are much healthier.¬†S&amp;P 500 companies have much higher-quality balance sheets, with an average net debt/equity ratio of 34% today. That‚Äôs just over half the S&amp;P 500‚Äôs debt burden in October 2007 and close to the average level in March 2000 when the index‚Äôs ratio was distorted by debt-free technology companies. The AllianceBernstein Blog on Investing Expectations are modest.¬†Profit margins are currently high, and are expected to decline. But there is room for sales growth to exceed the consensus‚Äôs modest expectation, which could propel earnings growth and further market gains. We see several reasons why a pickup in economic growth could increase sales and earnings. We are currently projecting US GDP growth of 2.6% in 2013, up slightly from 2.4% in 2012 and¬†1.8%¬†in 2011. It is true that cutbacks in federal government spending are creating a small headwind for the economy. But that is more than offset by the strong momentum in the private sector‚Äîparticularly construction, capital spending and consumer spending.¬† Ultralow interest rates have kept mortgage rates at rock bottom, which has contributed to the recent recovery in housing construction and prices from extremely low levels. A sustained improvement in housing could boost consumer confidence and spending, which in turn could increase sales and earnings for companies in the homebuilding, financial and consumer discretionary sectors. Consensus 2013 earnings forecasts for the S&amp;P 500 have risen from $107 to $109. We think earnings could rise further. Companies have also been delivering capital back to shareholders.¬†The S&amp;P 500 dividend yield of 2.1% remains slightly above the 10-year US Treasury yield of 2.0%, as the display above also shows. And companies continue to both raise their payout ratios and buy back their stock. We expect this trend to continue, which should benefit equity shareholders over time. Of course, stocks may retreat briefly from recent highs, and another shock‚Äîperhaps related to Europe‚Äôs ongoing troubles‚Äîcould take away investors‚Äô risk appetite for a while. But we see no fundamental reason to avoid stocks at current levels. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio managers.
AP ImagesBank of Cyprus employees sit outside of Greece's Finance Ministry.Savers in Cyprus could face losing one-quarter of their bank deposits under new proposals being discussed by the government as ministers flew to Brussels to salvage a European bailout. The new bank levy would only apply to people with more than ‚Ç¨100,000 (¬£85,260) in their accounts, according to the finance minister, Michael Sarris, who also said that significant progress had been made in talks with European officials. President Nicos Anastasiades travelled to Brussels to work out an alternative plan to raise funds that would allow the country to qualify for an international bailout. Cyprus must raise ‚Ç¨5.8bn (¬£4.9bn) before Monday to qualify for the ‚Ç¨10bn EU bailout it needs to prevent the collapse of its banks and a potential departure from the eurozone. The idea of raising money through a one-off levy on bank deposits was criticised in Cyprus, Russia and elsewhere and was unanimously rejected by the Cypriot parliament earlier this week, but is being reconsidered after negotiations with Russia to find alternative finance did not achieve a result. On Friday, the Cypriot parliament passed nine bills, including three that would see ailing banks restructured, starting with Laiki, Cyprus's second-largest bank, a "national solidarity fund" and capital controls that would prevent large withdrawals from the country. A decision on the controversial bank savings levy and how it would be applied is due on Saturday. Other Cypriot politcians discussed a smaller bank levy of 1% which would be aplied to all accounts. The debate is divided between those that want the levy to be borne only by the wealthy which includes a high percentage of Russians who hold ‚Ç¨30bn in Cypriot banks. Eurozone ministers are scheduled to meet on Sunday to decided how to help Cyprus avoid economic chaos. The European Central Bank has threatened to cut off funding from Monday and the banks face a run of investors withdrawing money when they re-open. The Cypriot parliament will meet after the meeting of the eurozone ministers on Sunday evening. George Vassiliou, the former president of Cyprus, told the Guardian on Friday that it was imperative that the banking system was not allowed to collapse. "We have developed a unique service sector based on confidence in the banking system. If that confidence is lost then you have nothing left. Everything that has been created will be destroyed with formidable repercussions." Banks in Cyprus have been closed since Monday and many businesses have been accepting only cash payments. The Foreign Office has advised Britons travelling to Cyprus to take enough euros to cover the cost of their trip and to guard their cash carefully.  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Instagram/dom_romoClick here to access AskMen's Spring Fashion Preview 2013. Andy Warhol once said, "When people are ready to, they change. They never do it before then, and sometimes they die before they get around to it." The theme of change is amusing, because we're always working toward some form of it (or talking about it, anyway). Eating better, drinking less, quitting smoking, finding another job, dating more, moving to another city -- sound familiar? But it often takes external change, like a new year or, say, a change in season, to get us going. We had this in mind when putting together our annual spring fashion preview. In here, you'll find the best new gear for all areas of your life -- at the office, date night, on your downtime, dressing up, at the gym -- like always. But you'll also find two new things that launched this month that puts all of this into action. Know the feeling of putting on your suit or dressing for a date only to be defeated by your hair? It's kind of absurd how much power our hair has over us. That's why we launched The Hair Manual, a book that finally answers all of your hair questions (and we know you got 'em). No oneís excluded. Our readers are as diverse as the hair on their heads, so whether youíre clueless on the subject or are a hairstylist, whether you have curly hair or are balding, thereís takeaway value for all. Next, we launched Dress Your Best, a web series in which our readers receive style consultations at some of the best (and coolest) men's stores in New York City. Two of the episodes are featured here -- one on how to dress for the all-important job interview and the other on how to clean up for a date. From the most imperceptible change, like parting your hair on the opposite side, to a more impactful one, like changing jobs, our spring fashion preview gives you the tools to move your life forward.
Hectorir via Flickr(Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is pushing banks to ignore competitors' performance when awarding bonuses, and focus squarely on their own profitability, according to pay consultants and other people familiar with the matter. The central bank is hoping to change a deeply ingrained habit on Wall Street: awarding bonuses to senior executives based in part on whether the company's performance lagged or beat rivals. The Fed fears that these relative performance measures encourage executives to take big risks to keep up with stronger competitors and reward executives even when their banks aren't performing well, the sources said. Regulators also fear that banks may be paying executives large sums at precisely the time when they should be reining in compensation to conserve capital. The Dodd-Frank financial reform law charged the Fed with implementing new rules about Wall Street pay. At this point, the Fed is just talking to banks, and has not yet issued formal rules or directives. Lawmakers and regulators hope that changing pay practices will reduce the chance of future financial crises, though some corporate governance experts question whether removing relative performance from the picture will have much impact on risk taking. The biggest banks, including Bank of America Corp, Citigroup Inc, Goldman Sachs Group Inc, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, and Morgan Stanley, consider performance compared to competitors, according to their most recent proxy statements. Spokespeople for those banks declined to comment on discussions with the Fed, citing restrictions and penalties for speaking publicly about confidential matters. Some who work on compensation plans at big banks argue that when times are good, rewarding relative performance encourages executives to keep hustling, instead of coasting. It also helps retain talent when times are tough, they say. Firms that advise shareholders on proxy votes, like International Shareholders Services and Glass, Lewis &amp; Co, support using these metrics as well. Rose Marie Orens, a senior partner who focuses on financial services at the New York-based consulting firm Compensation Advisory Partners, said that the Fed has contacted some of her clients about relative performance issues, as well as other elements of pay. The Fed has also questioned some banks on whether bonus payments should be capped at only 1.25 times or 1.50 times an initially set target payment - rather than the current industry standard of 2 times, she said. Roughly half of the 120 largest U.S. companies use relative performance as a benchmark for executive bonuses, Orens said. Proponents of relative value metrics say that the measures prevent executives from getting bonuses simply because the economy is growing. "I remain a strong supporter of relative performance over absolute performance," said Lucian Bebchuk, a professor at Harvard Law School who focuses on compensation and corporate governance. Bebchuk advised pay czar Kenneth Feinberg when the latter was charged with keeping bonuses in check at bailed-out banks. "Absolute performance rewards managers for improvements that are not due to their own performance," he said, adding that "when the sector as a whole does not do well, absolute performance might well fail to reward those executives who do relatively well." Some academics who study corporate governance note that any formula will have flaws. "There is no perfect performance measurement plan for a firm," said David Larcker, a professor at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business who focuses on how executive compensation affects corporate performance. "Every one has some downside, risk, or gamesmanship opportunity." BONUS FOR BEING AVERAGE? Meeting profitability targets has been tough in recent years as low interest rates, weak demand from customers, and new regulations have crimped revenue. Investors have been pressuring banks to spend less of their revenue on compensation, to boost profits, an argument banks are increasingly listening to. James Gorman, the CEO of Morgan Stanley, did not get a performance bonus in 2009 - a record year for Wall Street profits - in part because the bank missed its targets for relative total shareholder returns over the period. Citigroup's board met with big investors after they voted against former Chief Executive Vikram Pandit's pay package last year. Shareholders said they preferred metrics like relative shareholder returns, that provide "a framework for discretion," the bank said in its proxy this month. Investors want the bank's directors and managers to have the discretion to pay bonuses to senior executives even when times are difficult, the proxy said. But there are clear downsides to relative pay, too. Companies are notorious for changing their peer groups to make their performance figures look better. A study of S&amp;P 1500 firms' proxy filings by professors at Pennsylvania State University and University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign found that companies regularly choose underperforming competitors for their peer groups. When it comes to measures of performance, the Fed is much more concerned about what happens when the economy and markets are doing poorly, said Robert Dicks, who heads Deloitte Consulting LLP's financial services compensation practice. "The Fed is always concerned about that push to get the last dollar into the pool to pay out bonuses, with a short-term view," said Dicks. "If profits are too low, the bank doesn't have the money to pay out bonuses," he added. One alternative is to award bonuses based on the bank's profitability adjusted for the risk it took, to discourage executives from taking big risks to eke out small profits.
Tim Boyle/Getty ImagesChicago Police Department investigatorA former Chicago police officer accused in a plot to extort, murder, and dismember a local businessman is now facing charges he agreed to kill another individual in exchange for revenue from a strip club and later tried to get his wife to destroy evidence while he was in a federal jail. Steven Mandell ‚Äî who formerly went by the name Steven Manning ‚Äî was charged in a superseding indictment announced Friday with extortion, conspiracy to commit kidnapping, obstruction of justice, murder-for-hire, and weapons offenses. The bizarre case against Mandell, 62, unfolded in October when federal agents swooped in and arrested him and his alleged accomplice, Gary Engel, as they prepared to abduct the businessman from a Northwest Side realty office. In a November story, the Tribune identified the office as belonging to George Michael, a banker who made headlines a few years ago when he claimed his suburban lakefront mansion was an Armenian church in order to qualify for a nearly $80,000 break on his annual property tax bill. Prosecutors alleged Mandell and Engel planned to take the victim to a nearby vacant office space they called "Club Med," which had been outfitted with an industrial sink for draining blood as well as saws, handcuffs, zip ties and surgical instruments. They intended to extort the victim of his cash and force him to sign over his real estate holdings, then kill and dismember him, prosecutors said. According to the new indictment, Mandell also conspired to murder an heir of the businessman if the heir made a claim to the businessman's properties after his slaying. Three weeks before his arrest, Mandell was plotting the murder of another victim in exchange for "a portion of the revenues generated from an adult entertainment club," according to the indictment. No details on the alleged victim or the club were revealed in the charges. Mandell was also accused of calling his wife from the Metropolitan Correctional Center days after his arrest and telling her to move a Nissan Maxima he had parked near the businessman's suburban home. During the call, Mandell urged his wife to have someone else drive the vehicle because "maybe they'll say you're aiding and abetting a crime or something," the indictment quoted Mandell as saying. Inmates' calls are routinely recorded. In another call the next day, Mandell's wife told him she was going to clean out the car and he responded, "Yeah ... throw away a lot of stuff," according to the indictment. Records show Mandell and his 82-year-old wife were married in Naples, Fla., in 2007 and were living in her Buffalo Grove home at the time of his arrest. She could not be reached for comment Friday but has not been charged with any wrongdoing. Mandell was known as Steven Manning when he resigned from the Chicago Police Department in 1983 after he was convicted in an insurance fraud scheme and was later linked to several burglary and jewelry theft rings in Chicago's underworld. He was convicted in 1993 of murdering truck driver James Pellegrino and sentenced to death, but his conviction was later overturned. After his release, Manning sued the FBI for framing him and won a landmark $6.5 million judgment. But he never saw the money because a federal judge threw out the damages. Engel, 61, hanged himself with a bed sheet in a McHenry County Jail cell about a week after his arrest, authorities said. jmeisner@tribune.com ___ (c)2013 the Chicago Tribune Visit the Chicago Tribune at www.chicagotribune.com Distributed by MCT Information Services 
GettyThe U.S. Senate reached a milestone early Saturday when it overcame partisan gridlock to approve its first budget resolution in four years, setting up a political duel with the Republican-held House. The sweeping plan for fiscal year 2014, the first budget blueprint passed by the Democrat-led Senate under President Barack Obama since 2009, squeaked by by the narrowest of margins, 50-49. "Doing this has been a Herculean feat," said Democratic Majority Leader Harry Reid, noting the 100 amendments that were voted on in a marathon, 13-hour session known in the Senate as a "vote-a-rama." The plan, shepherded by Senate Budget Committee chair Patty Murray, seeks nearly $1 trillion in new revenue over the next decade, mostly through the closure of tax loopholes that favor the wealthy, and an equal amount in reductions to government spending. The House of Representatives on Thursday adopted its own budget resolution, which seeks to reach balance within 10 years through significant reductions in federal spending, the overhaul of entitlements like Medicare and the repeal of Obama's health care law. The glaring partisanship of Congress ensures that neither plan will be enacted into law. Instead they will serve as the starting points for a broader debate this year over budget policy. Republican Minority Leader Mitch McConnell praised the comprehensive debate on the floor that allowed lawmakers to eventually reach their objective of voting on a fiscal blueprint. "You may not feel it at the moment, but this is one of the Senate's finest days in recent years," he said. Leaders in the Senate and House are now expected to bring the chambers to conference as lawmakers head into what is increasingly likely to be a summer showdown over the US federal borrowing limit. Republican House Speaker John Boehner has said he wants a dollar in spending cuts for every dollar rise in the debt ceiling, but Obama opposes such an approach. Obama has courted Republicans in recent weeks in a bid to draw mutually acceptable outlines for deficit reduction. The president wants new revenues as part of a deal, but Boehner has stressed that the $600 billion in tax hikes from a year-end pact were the last new taxes he wanted to see. "I realize there are serious differences between the parties," Murray told the chamber. "We have presented very different visions for how our country should work and who it should work for, but I am hopeful that we can bridge this divide." Senators worked feverishly through the entire day Friday and into Saturday, as the parties' leaders contended with more than 560 filed amendments. Most fell by the wayside and were not voted on, but there were key amendments that were approved, including a repeal of an unpopular tax on medical devices that was enacted as part of "Obamacare." Senators also went on record in support of the Keystone Pipeline, which the Obama administration has delayed due to environment concerns, and backed the withholding of wages for top White House budget staff for every day Obama fails to produce his budget plan. Obama was supposed to lay out his budget in February, but the White House now says he will do so in April. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Nicos Anastasiades was due in the Belgian capital on Saturday after a sitting of Cypriot parliament last night approved a series of bills aimed at securing the country a European Union bail-out. The measures include a bill to restructure ailing Cypriot banks, and restrictions on financial transactions to stop a cash-flight from the country in the wake of last week's panic. There will also be a revenue-raising tax of less than 1 percent on all bank deposits - a move seen as fairer than the levy of 6.75 per cent originally proposed on deposits between 20-100,000 euros, which was rejected by the Cypriot parliament last Tuesday. More measures were due to be debated by the Cypriot parliament on Saturday, aimed overall at raising the 5.8 billion euros that the country needs in order to qualify for 10 billion euro rescue package. This morning it was announced that the parliament is not expected to convene again until after the Eurogroup meeting on Sunday. The moves came after the European Central Bank warned Cyprus that it would pull the plug on emergency funding to the country's banking sector by Tuesday if it did not come up with an alternative plan to the original levy proposals. That would have sparked the likely collapse of the country's banks, and an imminent exit from the Eurozone. It remains to be seen, however, whether Eurozone finance chiefs will deem Mr Anastasiades's proposals up to scratch. The Dutch head of the euro zone finance ministers' group, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, said the group wanted to keep Cyprus in the currency union. But when asked, he did not rule out an exit. "All kinds of scenarios are possible," he said. "The scenarios we're focusing on are to come to a joint solution in which Cyprus is saved but in which the banking sector continues in a smaller but healthier form." Cypriot MPs, meanwhile, said that the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, had told them that Cyprus would now have to drastically reduce the size of its banking sector, effectively ending its lucrative years as an international financial services centre. On Friday night, the parliament adopted a restructuring bill that would pave the way for the government to split its failing banks into "good" and "bad" sections. The measure is likely to target the Bank of Cyprus and the Cyprus Popular Bank, also known as Laiki. The tax of less than one per cent on all bank deposits was described as "the least worst option" by Averof Neophytou, deputy head of the governing DISY party. "We owe an apology to the Cypriot people because we all share in the responsibility of bringing this place to this state," he said. It also got grudging acceptance from ordinary Cypriots, most of whom are now desperate for financial security after a week which many feared they could lose their savings altogether. "If we have Europe's support so our banks won't collapse, I wouldn't have a problem with a deposit tax," said pensioner Demetrakis Papanicolaou, 64. Negotiations are still continuing though, over what levy might be imposed on wealthier savers with more than 100,000 euros. The Bank of Cyprus said it backed the idea of confiscating some percentage of all bank deposits over 100,000 euros because of a simple lack of alternatives. It warned Cypriots that "a potential collapse of the banking sector could lead to the total loss of all deposits above 100,000 euros and the immediate sale of all collateral accompanying non-performing loans." With additional reporting by Reuters and Associated Press 
Getty Images/Joe ReadleDespite the housing recovery, 10.4 million or 21.5 percent of all residential properties continued to be underwater at the end of Q4 2012, according to latest data by CoreLogic. The value of negative equity ‚Äì when homeowners owe more on their mortgages than their home is worth ‚Äì fell to $628 billion, from $670 billion the previous quarter. The Sandy states in particular continue to struggle. 1.7 million moved to positive equity in 2012, and the trend should continue into 2013. But some parts of the country will recover faster than others. Using CoreLogic data, we ranked the 12 states that had the most underwater mortgages as a percentage of all mortgages i.e. negative equity share. Note: Loan-to-Value (LTV) ratio is a measure used by financial institutions to gauge risk before approving a mortgage. The higher the LTV ratio, the higher the risk and the more expensive the loan.
What an interesting week. Monday brought a wave of righteous indignation over the thought of a haircut for Cypriot depositors, on Friday everyone is cheering the idea that deposits over E100k are going to gets ëfacedí for 40%. The Cyprus story is far from over, but there are some lessons so far: - European leaders have shown their hand. They are more than willing to stiff depositors when pushed to the wall. - The deposit level of +/- E100k has been reinforced at the benchmark for haircuts. - All Deposits &lt; E100k in European banks are safe. - All Deposits &gt; E100k are unsafe. - One would have to be oblivious to these facts (or a complete idiot) to have greater than E100k in an EU bank deposit. -† European Money Centers are at risk. One consequence of being a money center is that there has to be huge foreign liabilities. Looking at what is owed to external creditors provides some information on what I call the Money Center Debt Syndrome (MCDS). The following numbers on External Debt come from the CIA (Link). The numbers are external debt owing to other countries, minus external debt of other countries held. (The CIA presents all numbers in dollars.) The numbers are only the liabilities, there are foreign assets held against these liabilities. I want to focus on just the debt side of this picture. The two biggest money centers in Europe are Zurich and London. The MCDS is very obvious: Switzerland ñ External Debt = $2.2T.† External Debt to GDP = 210% UK ñ External Debt = $9.8T. External Debt to GDP = 400% Again, there are real assets behind most of this debt, so these ratios are not really as scary as they appear. In addition, these money centers are outside of the Euro Zone. I donít think there is an issue with these. Now consider Germany, a country with a large GDP and a relatively small function as a money center: Germany ñ External Debt = $5.6T. External Debt to GDP = 150% Italy/Spain are not money centers at. As a result, they do not suffer from MCDS: Italy ñ External Debt = $2.5T. External Debt to GDP = 110% Spain ñ External Debt = $1.4T. External Debt to GDP = 93% The following are 2011 numbers for Cyprus: Cyprus ñ External Debt = $106B. External Debt to GDP = 440% Clearly there was a red flag with external debt/GDP in Cyprus two years ago. The ratio was higher than all the other EU countries. It was higher than Switzerland. Cyprus was an accident waiting to happen. Now to the point of this article; consider the ratio for this European money center: Luxemburg ñ External Debt = $2.2T. External debt to GDP = 3,700% Yes, yes, I know. Luxemburg is different than Cyprus. Luxemburg is just a booking center, there are assets behind all of this debt. But at the same time, this looks like a very unstable situation. I end with where I started, only an idiot would leave more than E100k in a Luxemburg bank (any EU bank for the foreseeable future). I believe that the deposits that are behind Luxemburgís external debt are measured in the trillions, the vast majority of those deposits exceed E100k. It would not take much for this situation to slide out of control.
Spencer Platt / Getty ImagesNEW YORK (Reuters) - Bonuses at Wall Street firms will rise 15 percent this year despite ongoing pressure from investors, regulators and politicians about compensation levels, according to compensation-consulting firm Johnson Associates Inc. The projected rise in pay would come after a 5 percent increase in 2012, which was considered "disappointing," Alan Johnson, head of the firm, said in a presentation to the Wall Street Compensation and Benefits Association that was released publicly on Friday. Johnson expects chief executives to receive pay packages of $12 million to $25 million, even as investors question what they perceive as a misalignment between performance and pay. "Overarching frustrations (and) questions remain unsolved," Johnson said. Among those questions are, "What is the appropriate balance between employees and shareholders?" and "Why can't incentives go to zero?" he added. Johnson's projections - based on his work with banks, brokerages and asset management firms - are closely watched on Wall Street, particularly as compensation remains a hot-button issue for investors and taxpayers alike. Since the onset of the global financial crisis in 2008 - and the ensuing backlash against bonuses paid to employees of bailed-out banks - the industry has made several changes to compensation plans. Base salaries have gone up, while more pay is deferred with clawback provisions to protect banks if deals that seem profitable at first eventually go awry. A new "say on pay" measure that allows U.S. shareholders to vote on pay packages awarded to senior executives has also had an impact on executive compensation. Last year, Citigroup Inc &lt;C.N&gt; shareholders embarrassed the bank by voting down former Chief Executive Vikram Pandit's pay. The bank has since made changes to its compensation practices for top executives. The European Union and Switzerland have also approved compensation caps that limit banker pay to a certain portion of base salary. Yet those provisions have failed to prevent banks from paying out higher bonuses, even in years when performance suffers. Credit Suisse Group AG &lt;CSGN.VX&gt; gave its CEO a big raise last year, even though its profits fell. The median bank or asset manager paid out a greater portion of revenue to employees in 2012 than they did the previous year, Johnson Associates said. That rise comes despite staff cuts last year at most major financial-services firms. Payouts of deferred compensation from prior years skews those figures higher, according to the presentation. It is difficult to tell on a firm-specific basis how much of a compensation expense pertains to prior-year awards, because most firms do not disclose those figures. The lack of transparency about how compensation and performance are linked will continue to hurt banks this year, Johnson said. (Editing by Bob Burgdorfer) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
St. Louis FedBARCELONA ‚Äì In recent months, the dichotomy between booming financial markets, on the one¬†hand, and sluggish economies and dysfunctional politics, on the other, has loomed large. Yet insufficient attention is being devoted to a critical factor ‚Äì time, and who controls it ‚Äì that could well mean the difference between an orderly global resolution of today‚Äôs growing inconsistencies and a return to a more troubled phase. Markets have been understandably buoyant in the first quarter of 2013. Most economic data confirm that, after the trauma caused by the global financial crisis, the United States‚Äô economy is healing, and doing so in an accelerated fashion. The sequence is now well established. It started with large multinational companies, which are on as solid a financial footing as I can remember. Smaller firms are gradually recuperating; banks have rebuilt their capital cushions and reduced their dubious assets; the housing sector has stabilized; and a growing number of households are reestablishing healthier balance sheets, especially as employment gradually picks up. This private-sector recovery is helping government finances. The US budget deficit has been on a¬†downward trend¬†for now, helped by both higher revenues and lower pressure on spending (for example, payments to the unemployed have fallen as joblessness has declined). The healing process is also evident in Europe, though, unfortunately, it is effectively limited only to sovereign-bond markets. The real economy remains under enormous pressure in several countries, as economies contract and unemployment remains alarmingly high. After flirting with disaster last July, interest-rate spreads for eurozone bonds have¬†generally been subdued, and financial segmentation has been slowly reversed (that is, at least before European officials embarked on the controversial path of trying to impose losses on guaranteed bank deposits in Cyprus). Moreover, as Ireland‚Äôs highly successful ‚Ç¨5 billion ten-year bond issue in mid-March demonstrated, some countries are in the process of restoring normal access to capital markets. The impact on markets of these trends has been turbocharged by central banks, which are risk markets‚Äô best friends. This is not because they wish to play that role; rather, it is because higher asset prices are essential if central bankers stand any chance of delivering the desired economic outcomes of higher growth and stronger job creation. This is most evident in the US, where markets love the Federal Reserve‚Äôs trifecta of near-zero policy interest rates (negative in real terms), aggressive forward policy guidance, and asset purchases ‚Äì all of which push investors to take more risk. Markets also welcome the fact that the Fed‚Äôs hyperactive experimentation is forcing other central banks around the world to pursue more expansionary policies. Indeed, from the Bank of Japan‚Äôs dramatic policy U-turn to the Bank of Mexico‚Äôs surprise interest-rate cuts, the Fed‚Äôs approach is affecting central banks in a growing number of countries. Pushed further away from best-case scenarios, they are unable to ignore the global liquidity impact of the Fed‚Äôs policies, yet they lack the right policy tools to address it. The mix of endogenous healing and strong central-bank tailwinds, including from a ‚Äúwhatever it takes‚Äù European Central Bank, has also helped markets shrug off troubling political uncertainties. Be it the US Congress‚Äôs paralyzing polarization or Italy‚Äôs protest vote against the established political order, politicians are being given time to overcome their dysfunction, thereby minimizing any immediate disruptive impact. Understandably, investors have interpreted all of this as a green light to take more risk. And with the hype this month over eight successive records for the Dow Jones index (and many other records around the world), excitement induces more investors to enter riskier asset markets. The excitement is not anxiety-free, however, and rightly so. Investors worry about the longer-term consequences of political dysfunction, another year of European economic contraction, disastrously high unemployment, unprecedented ‚Äì¬†and thus untested ‚Äì central bank policies, and increasing global tensions. And the recent bungling of the Cyprus rescue does not help.¬† No wonder some have called the recent market rally ‚Äúone of the most unloved‚Äù in history. This mix of excitement and anxiety is, in fact, a sign of the looming crossroads that faces investors. One road, involving a relatively orderly handoff from policy-assisted recovery to self-sustaining growth, offers the possibility of even greater financial rewards, as rapidly improving economic and political conditions validate current artificial pricing and drive it higher. The other road is a lot less attractive. With insufficient endogenous healing and no economic escape velocity, the effectiveness of central banks‚Äô policies wanes and political dysfunction increases, leading to financial losses, volatility spikes, and huge risk-management challenges. Given current policy and political uncertainties ‚Äì and the multiple equilibria that they entail ‚Äì it is difficult to predict with a high degree of confidence which road eventually will be taken and when. Those who claim otherwise may well fail to appreciate fully the exceptional nature of the current situation. In these circumstances, timing may not be everything, but it may prove to be a key determinant of the probabilities. If the journey to the crossroads is accelerated by a large geopolitical shock (originating in, say, the Middle East or North Korea) and/or a serious political breakdown in Europe (for example, a meltdown in Cyprus or prolonged political paralysis in Italy), the probability of taking the adverse path rises to an uncomfortably high level. If, however, central banks can contain domestic and global inconsistencies long enough, the combination of endogenous healing and eventual political progress would significantly improve the probability distribution. Have no doubt: today‚Äôs markets rely heavily on the old adage that ‚Äútime heals all wounds.‚Äù The timekeepers are central banks. But their control of the clock is less than perfect; and it will become increasingly ineffective if economic improvement faces additional political headwinds in the months ahead.
By:¬† Peter Schiff Thursday, March 21, 2013 This week financial analysts, economists, politicians, and bank depositors from around the world were outraged that European leaders, more specifically the Germans, currently calling many of the shots in Brussels and Frankfurt, could be so politically reckless, economically ignorant, and emotionally callous as to violate the sanctity of bank deposits in order to fund a bailout of Cyprus. The chorus of condemnation may have been the deciding factor in giving the Cypriot parliament the confidence to unanimously vote down the measures in hopes that Berlin will cave or Russia will swoop in with a bailout. The decision to inflict pain on both large and small depositors was almost universally described as a historic blunder. But the mistake was to do so in a manner that was not camouflaged by financial smoke and mirrors. In truth, rank and file depositors have been paying, and will continue to pay, for all manner of bailouts and stimulus.¬†(Read about the Stimulus Trap in my¬†just released newsletter).Whether it's through lower interest payments on deposits, inflation, higher taxes, higher borrowing costs, or the accumulation of unsustainable sovereign debt, Cypriots will bear the burden of past profligacy. But the new plan for Cyprus was far too transparent, simple, and direct to survive in a world dependent on deceit and obfuscation. It was dead on arrival. All over the world, most notably in the United States, Britain and Japan, central bankers are actively pursuing inflation targets of two to three percent. But isn't inflation, which allows governments to pay off debt through the creation of new money that transfers purchasing power from savers to borrowers, just a deposit tax in disguise? (Read more about Japan's plan to do just that). British citizens of all means have been living with such a three percent stealth tax for the past three years, and it is expected to stay that high for at least two more years. Yet a one-time tax of 6.75% in Cyprus is seen as the ultimate act of betrayal? ¬† Many are lamenting that Cyprus' membership in the EU prevents it from devaluing its own currency to get out of the jam. How would such a course be morally superior? Taking actual losses on deposits is no different than taking losses through devaluation and inflation. Both result in the loss of purchasing power. Asking for a depositor haircut at least deals with the problem honestly and immediately. Although it's not quite as honest, devaluation can also be effective. The same dynamic holds true with bailout funds. Suppose the EU were to come through with more funds? All that means is that Cypriots will have to pay more in future debt and interest repayments. In so doing they would saddle future generations with a burden that they had no hand in creating. How is that fair? ¬†¬† And it's not as if depositors at Cypriot banks, many of whom are reported to be Russian citizens seeking tax havens, were not complicit in the risk taking. Bloomberg reports that over the past five years euro deposits at Cyprus banks returned more than 24 percent cumulatively, almost double the returns on comparable German accounts. The banks were able to offer such returns because they were exposed to riskier assets (i.e. Greek government bonds).¬†What's so wrong with asking those who took greater risks to earn higher returns to give something back when their decisions go bad? Cypriot citizens, as members of the EU, had the choice to put their deposits in any EU bank. Even after paying the taxes that had been proposed in the bailout, long-term depositors would have made more money by keeping their savings in the high yielding Cypriot banks than low yielding German banks. So what kind of sadistic Rubicon are we crossing? ¬† The predominating fear internationally was not that mom and pop Cypriots would have trouble making ends meet, or that Russian mobsters would have lost any of their questionable fortunes, but that a run on banks in Cyprus would lead to similar panics in Greece, Spain, and then the world at large. As a result, the troubles of an insignificant economy are seen to threaten the entire global financial edifice.¬† This is just the latest sign that our current system rests upon nothing but confidence...which in the end can be ephemeral. Despite the surmounting mathematical challenges faced by the overly indebted countries, investors have confidence that central banks will be able to engineer a return to sustainable economic growth without creating runaway inflation or triggering a renewed recession through premature tightening. This would be a tall order in even the best of circumstances. But if a small issue like Cyprus can shake that confidence...how strong can it be?¬†Read how this confidence in central bank support has been the driving force in stock market rally. Interestingly, the troubles in Cyprus have encouraged many to boast about the comparative health of American banking institutions and the superior sanctity of our own depositor protections. ¬†Both of these strengths are illusory, and as a result, what happens in Cyprus will not necessarily stay in Cyprus.¬† This month the Federal Reserve released the results of "stress tests" that it conducted on the major U.S. banks. While the media heralded the overwhelming success, in which 14 of 16 institutions received gold stars, they did not mention how the tests failed to test how the banks would perform if interest rates were to return to their historic norms.¬† Currently, the ultra-low rates provided by the Federal Reserve, which provide a low cost of capital and sustain profits on highly leveraged bond and mortgage portfolios, are a key element keeping banks in the black.¬† All of that would be threatened in a rising rate environment. And while the tests did assume that rates would rise from the current 1.9% on the 10 year Treasury, there were no considerations for yields surpassing 4%. They assume that interest rates will stay near historic lows, no matter how bad (or good) the economy gets, how high inflation rises, or how much money the government borrows. The Fed saw yields rising to 4% (by the end of 2015) only under their most optimistic forecast. In the scenarios involving economic deterioration, they predicted yields would come down dramatically from current levels. At no point did researchers ask the most fundamental questions: What if all the money that has been created over the past few years leads to an increase in inflation that forces interest rates past 4% even if the economy remains weak -- do they not remember the stagflation of the 1970s? Or what if the continued fiscal cowardice in Washington leads to a diminishment of bond investors' enthusiasm? Given our past experience with bursting bubbles, would it not have been wise for the Fed to consider whether banks could withstand the bursting of the Treasury bond bubble, which many suggest is the biggest bubble of them all? ¬†But since the Fed did not recognize the smaller bubbles until after they burst, it is not surprising that they are equally blind to this one? The Fed, after all, does not have a history of learning from its mistakes. However, I believe the oversight is no accident. The Fed knows that major banks would fail if the bond market crashed, but it does not want to shake the confidence that is essential to the current economy. This episode also puts into starker focus the inadequacy of deposit insurance. By offering the illusion of systemic safety in bank deposits, government guarantees encourage recklessness by banks and depositors. They provide the same incentives that federal flood insurance does in convincing homeowners to build on flood zones. Consumer choice and risk aversion are powerful forces that could bring needed discipline to banking.¬†The FDIC in the U.S. is in the same situation as insurance giant AIG before the crash of 2008. ¬† While the FDIC currently has about $25 billion available to bail out failing banks in the event of isolated events (mainly held in U.S. treasuries that would need to be sold), it insures more than $10 trillion in deposits. Clearly it lacks the resources to cover major losses in a systemic failure. ¬†A failure of just one of the nation's forty largest banks could swamp the resources of the FDIC. I believe that a significant spike in Treasury yields, to say 6%, would result in the failure of several major banks. Bank of America and Citibank for example each have over $1 trillion in deposits.¬†Where would the FDIC get the money to make the depositors whole in such a situation? The government would be unlikely to pass a major tax increase to fund an FDIC bailout.¬†More likely the Fed would print the money.¬†In that event, depositors may not lose their money, but their money will lose much of its purchasing power. In the end, honest losses could prove to be much smaller. To order your copy of¬†Peter Schiff's latest book,¬†The Real Crash: America‚Äôs Coming Bankruptcy ‚Äì How to Save Yourself and Your Country,¬†click here. For in-depth analysis of this and other investment topics, subscribe to¬†Peter Schiff's¬†Global Investor¬†newsletter.¬†CLICK HERE¬†for your free subscription.¬† This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital ¬ª
