REUTERS/Athit PerawongmethaAnti-government protesters look on as they gather during a rally at the Government Complex in Bangkok, December 8, 2013.BANGKOK (Reuters) - Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra dissolved parliament on Monday and called a snap election, but anti-government protest leaders pressed ahead with mass demonstrations seeking to install an unelected body to run Thailand. Protesters have been on the streets of the capital for weeks, clashing with police and vowing to oust Yingluck and eradicate the influence of her self-exiled brother, former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra. The clashes petered out last week as the nation celebrated the revered king's birthday, but political hostilities are set to resume in earnest. The demonstrations are the latest eruption in nearly a decade of rivalry between forces aligned with the Bangkok-based establishment and those who support Thaksin, a former telecommunications tycoon who won huge support in the countryside with pro-poor policies. "At this stage, when there are many people opposed to the government from many groups, the best way is to give back the power to the Thai people and hold an election. So the Thai people will decide," Yingluck said in a televised address as thousands of protesters resumed demonstrations across Bangkok. The leader of the anti-government movement, Suthep Thaugsuban, said he would not end his demonstrations and would continue a march to Yingluck's offices at Government House. "Today, we will continue our march to Government House. We have not yet reached our goal. The dissolving of parliament is not our aim," Suthep, a former deputy prime minister under the previous military-backed government, told Reuters. Police estimated as many as 50,000 people joined protests at different sites in Bangkok. Yingluck's Puea Thai Party won the last election in 2011 by a landslide, enjoying widespread support in the north and northeast, Thailand's poorest regions. The Democrats have not won an election in more than two decades. Suthep, aware that Yingluck would likely win an election if one were called, has been urging the setting-up of a "people's council" of appointed "good people" to replace the government. Yingluck has dismissed the idea as unconstitutional and undemocratic. Underscoring the divide, the pro-establishment opposition Democrat Party said on Sunday all of its members of the House of Representatives would give up their seats because they were unable to work with Yingluck's ruling party. Without the Democrats, the 500-member lower house will have 347 members. "GOING NOWHERE" Calling an election will not end Thailand's political deadlock if the Democrats boycott it, says Pavin Chachavalpongpun of Kyoto University's Centre for Southeast Asian Studies. In 2006, amid mass protests, the Democrats refused to contest a snap election called by Thaksin, who was deposed by the military five months later. "This is only a short-term solution because there is no guarantee that the Democrats will come back and play by the rules," says Pavin. "We don't know whether they will boycott the elections or not." "It seems like Thailand is going nowhere," he said. Suthep has told his supporters they have to take back power from what he calls the illegitimate "Thaksin regime" and that they cannot rely on the army to help. The army, which ousted Thaksin in 2006, has said it does not want to get involved though it has tried to mediate. Thaksin fled Thailand in 2008 to avoid a graft conviction but has remained closely involved with his sister's government. The protests were sparked last month by a government bid to introduce an amnesty that would have expunged his conviction. (Additional reporting by Andrew R.C. Marshall; Writing by Jason Szep; Editing by Robert Birsel)
REUTERS/ Sebastien NogierSince 1986, investing legend and Blackstone Vice Chairman Byron Wien begins each January by attempting to predict the 10 big surprises of the coming year. Wien should be given major props for even trying to do what many investing gurus might not. But in the interest of keeping him honest, it's time to score his 2013 calls. In the past, Wien has seen about half of his predictions come true. Not bad. Though this year, he thought that stocks would fall and gold would reach $1,900 an ounce. And that has to count against him pretty big. NOTE: We awarded partial credit where partial credit was due.
ReutersThe People's Bank of China officially announced the inter-bank negotiable certificate of deposits (CDs) on Saturday. The interest rate on these CDs will be determined by the market. These certificates of deposit "can help banks secure a more stable funding source and offer liquid and safer¬† underlying securities for investment products targeting individual investors," writes Societe Generale's Wei Yao.¬† Individuals, governments, and non-financial companies can't jump into this market just yet, but they can tap into it through funds and finance companies, says Bank of America's Ting Lu.¬† While this move was anticipated, it signals an important step in interest rate liberalization. China has yet to scrap its ceiling on deposit rates, which experts argue is the most important and challenging step in the process to true interest rate liberalization. We've previously explained why it's so difficult to liberalize deposit rates. Yao expects Beijing to scrap the ceiling on long-date deposits, implement a deposit insurance scheme, and pass a bankruptcy law for financial institutions in the near term. Here are the key guidelines to the certificates of deposit from Yao: Banks can begin issuing CDs starting Monday.
ReutersChinese consumer prices were up 3% in November, modestly below expectations for a 3.1% rise. Meanwhile, producer prices fell 1.4%, missing expectations for a 1.5% fall.¬† Food inflation fell to 5.9% in November, from 6.5% the previous month. Vegetable price inflation fell to 22.3%, from 31.5%, and meat prices moderated to 5.5%, from 5.8%. Pork prices also cooled to 5%, from 5.2% in October. Meanwhile, producer prices continued to stay in negative territory and average retail fuel prices fell 1.6% in November.  Ting expects consumer prices to rise 3.1% in 2014, from 2.7% in 2013. This will partly be because of the base effect since consumer prices were lower in the first half of 2013."Inflation expectations could rise with stabilized domestic economic growth, the slowly improving global growth outlook and higher home prices in major Chinese cities," said Ting in a note to clients after the data release. "On the other hand, commodity and raw material prices could remain soft in 2014, helping contain CPI inflation." Ting doesn't expect the People's Bank of China to tighten monetary policy in 2014 for two key reasons. 1. While the government has a CPI target of 3.5%, " the chance for monthly inflation to be sustained at the official cap at 3.5% or above is low." 2. It isn't clear if the cap is monthly, quarterly or annual and the "government is unlikely to react to monthly inflation readings, which are subject to many temporary factors and base effects." Here's a look at the trajectory of Chinese consumer and producer prices: Bank of America
REUTERS/China DailyThe latest Chinese trade data showed that exports surged 12.7% year-over-year in November, up from 5.6% the previous month. This is also beat expectations for a 7% rise. The slowdown in import growth and the surge in exports resulted in a trade surplus of $33.1 billion. Exports got a nice boost from improving global economy. Export growth to the U.S. jumped 17.7% on the year in November, up from 8.1% the previous month. Exports to the EU surged 16.7%, compared with 12.7% in October. Exports to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) climbed 16.7% in November, compared with 10.7% the previous month.†† China's official PMI had also reflected stronger external demand, with the new export order component of the official PMI report climbing to 50.6, from 50.4 in October. But it's also important to remember that trade data benefited from a weaker base since exports were up 2.8% on the year in November 2012, Societe Generale's Wei Yao points out. But there's also some concern that hot money flows could be on the rise again. From Bank of America's Ting Lu: "There is not hard data of massive hot money inflow yet, but the appreciating RMB/USD since mid-September and the recent rise of bond yields (as well as rising rates on money market funds and bank wealth management products) could lead to hot money inflows into China. A rebounding growth along with regained confidence of the Chinese economy could also convince people to bring money into China. "Note exports data were greatly over-reported between end-2012 and April 2013. Also note today the PBoC† today issued an edict to strengthen regulations on financing of international trade." Here's a look at the trajectory of Chinese imports and exports that shows a pick up in exports: Societe Generale
Wikimedia CommonsVormsi (Saxby) lighthouse, situated in the island of Vormsi.For the most part, the economic data has been pretty encouraging. And Friday's strong jobs report has people thinking very carefully about the outlook for monetary policy. "Regarding the Fed, last Fridayís employment report reinforces our previous view that the Fed will begin QE tapering in December," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna. However, LaVorgna's forecast is not the consensus. Most expect tapering to begin in January or March. Meanwhile, the stock market continues to trade near all-time highs. This week's economic calendar is pretty light. That gives everyone plenty of time to think about their portfolios ahead of the fateful December 17-18 Federal Open Market Committee meeting. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary The stock market saw a decent amount of volatility this past week. "Is this the beginning of a significant correction?" asked market veteran Ed Yardeni. "I doubt it since corrections and bear markets are triggered by mounting concerns about a recession. The latest data are pointing more to a boom than a bust."
Putting aside the impact of the Fed‚Äôs LSAP‚Äôs (and tapering) on the level of long term interest rates, I‚Äôve held on to a few different trends as to why I believe a material rise in interest rates is unlikely in the near future. Said a different way, various data series have signified to me why the potential of the recovery is limited all else equal. I closely watch the growth of commercial bank loans outstanding. One could argue the shift to non-bank lending makes this metric less important post the great financial crisis, however it is still one of the most pure indicators of credit creation in the financial system. Anyone who has tracked the Fed‚Äôs H8 report (asset &amp; liabilities of the top 25 banks) has noticed a paltry growth trend in outstanding loans. In short, excluding a reclassification in 2010, total loans and leases are still below levels seen in 2008. Part of this is easily explainable. For instance, real estate loans declined precipitously since 2008 due to defaults and has only recently started to climb again. Meanwhile since the GFC commercial banks have made a ‚Äústudent body left‚Äù out of real estate loans and into ‚ÄúC&amp;I‚Äù loans. The C&amp;I sector has been the main driver of loan growth while consumer &amp; real estate lending languishes. Fast forward to this past Friday where we saw a material $25bil week over week increase in bank loans &amp; leases. Is this jump just noise or the start of something greater? After seeing YoY growth levels fall through this summer, we‚Äôre now seeing a reversal of this. This is a bullish sign and something that‚Äôs been lacking. Also released on Friday, we saw consumer credit rise materially above consensus expectations. Unlike the recent past where the increase was primarily driven by student loans, a large amount of the pick up was in the revolving credit segment. Again, this is something we haven‚Äôt seen in some time now. There‚Äôs been an overall reluctance to take on debt in the consumer segment. QE has caused base money to explode as reserves are added to the system through bond buying all the while broader measures of money supply have grown tepidly. This could be changing if recent trends in consumer credit and bank lending are any indication. Should employee wages start to gain traction we could see monetary velocity pick up materially. Guillermo Roditi recently wrote a great piece which posited that wage growth could soon be on the horizon. Either way, we should be paying close attention to credit creation and if last week‚Äôs data were any indication, higher velocity and therefore higher interest rates could be in store.
REUTERS/Lee Jae-WonAn investor looks at a board showing the stock price index at a brokerage firm in Seoul October 16, 2008. Seoul shares fell more than 9 percent that day, posting its biggest daily percentage loss in seven years, as the grim world economic outlook and the overnight Wall Street crash made investors dump shares across the board. The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI) officially ended down 9.44 percent at 1,213.78 points, its lowest close since mid-June 2006.Asia and Pacific markets were mostly higher as Monday trading opened. Korea's Kospi and Japan's Nikkei both climbed more than 1%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 was off 0.2%. U.S. futures were pointing higher, led by the NASDAQ at 0.2%. We just got some economic data out of Japan, which showed Q3 GDP was revised down to 1.1% from 1.9%, while swinging to a current account deficit, "as its massive goods and services trade deficit eradicated the benefits of solid income from overseas investment," Marketwatch's Mitsuru Obe writes. But the Yen climbed just 0.06% against the dollar.
After those two important disclaimers let me tell you what I think. I have a bit of knowledge of how investment managers operate, be it real money or absolute return people. And by no means what I am about to write applies to everyone but it seems that things have been on a downward trajectory for a while now. Have a look at this fancy table from the Credit Suisseís†Hedge Index: Barnejek's Blog What interests me the most in such reports is the last column, i.e. the Sharpe ratio, which basically measures the volatility-adjusted returns. As a rule of thumb, anyone consistently below one should not be paid much. As you can see here, most funds are actually below one and the sample is almost 20 years. We will get to the exceptions later. I do realise that trading since the financial crisis has been difficult and the risk-on/risk-off environment has made it very tough to apply any meaningful portfolio strategies but that doesnít mean hedge funds should not be accountable anymore. Just remind yourself where the name ìhedge fundî comes from. No, itís not a marketing ploy aimed at fooling the audience ñ hedge funds†are†meant to make money regardless of the market direction. Instead, these days we seem to be willing to praise hedge fund managers for leveraging bets consistent with the prevailing market trend. And since with the exception of US equities, there havenít been many trends, the macro guys are struggling. Hereís why I believe the whole industry is failing: the fetish of market positioning. In recent years we have seen a massive increase in focus on positioning data. Things are getting so ridiculous that some investors are taking it to the next level by wondering what the market thinks positioning is. Itís a bit like a ìwhat if he knows I know that he knowsî mentality. Consequently, many moves in financial markets are being explained mostly by positioning. Take last Friday ñ the often-cited reason why EMFX rallied after the US labour data was that people were short rather than the fact that historically good growth in the US has traditionally been associated with good EM performance. Or take the euro over the last year. It doesnít matter that fundamentals have†vastly†improved and that the break-up risk is virtually zero. No, the euro has rallied because the market has been short. If you think of it, this is a very convenient excuse for being wrong: ìIf it wasnít for people being so short, the euro wouldíve surely crashed by now and I wouldíve made a fortuneì. You canít argue with that ìlogicî unfortunately. So we are in an environment where hedge funds are wondering what the real money are doing and vice versa. At the same time, local investors keep second guessing the foreigners while foreigners mostly care about demand and supply from the locals. No wonder that in the end the market ends up super correlated and everyone makes or loses money at the same time. The funny thing, though, is that hedge funds charge 2+20 for the privilegeÖ Interestingly, results for 2013 are still not terrible (although infinitely worse than most of the passive 60:40 strategies). Why? Well, one of Abeís arrows was golden and pretty much every macro fund caught some of the move in USD/JPY at the beginning of the year. Now they are of course celebrating even though draw-downs since then have oftentimes been eye-watering. But letís go back to the table. Have a look at who hasnít fallen below unity. Special situation funds and multi-strategy guys. Special situations, like distressed debt, require a lot of ground work with little regard to global trends. If a company in stress has debt that matures in the next few months, it really doesnít matter much whether Draghi pushes the deposit rate below zero. Or at least itís not the most important factor. And multi-strategy? Well, thatís sort of my point. I have no idea what are the exact constituents of this group in CSís sample but it sounds and awful lot like the diversified market portfolio. Except it costs 2% to run. I know plenty of smart hedge fund managers and I know many of them are fuming at all the gamblers waking up every day and thinking whether to buy or sell 500m AUD/USD given the latest positioning data theyíve received from bank X or they received directly from dealers after they asked them to judge positioning on the scale from -5 to +5. This is truly pathetic and for some reason the market is getting such funds get away with this behaviour just because Abe sent USD/JPY higher and they happened to have been in front of their screens. #end_of_rant
APOn Fox News Sunday this morning, Sen. Rand Paul opposed extending emergency unemployment benefits for Americans who have been out of work more than 27 weeks on the grounds that doing so hurts workers. Here's why he's wrong. Unemployment benefits are normally available to people who have been out of work up to 27 weeks. In 2009, Congress passed the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program which extended the benefits to those out of work for up to 99 weeks. The EUC is set to expire on January 1st when 1.3 million Americans will lose their benefits. Another 850,000 will lose them in the next few months. Congressional Democrats are calling for another year-long extension of the EUC, but Republicans are opposed to it.† ìI do support 26 weeks of unemployment, if you extend it beyond that you do a disservice to these workers,î Paul said this morning.†ìWhen you allow people to be on unemployment for 99 weeks, you are causing them to become part of this perpetual unemployed group in our economy,î Paul's argument there is that giving people these benefits discourages them to take a job. They are happy to live off the government's dole. There are a number of things wrong with this argument. First, to receive unemployment benefits, Americans must prove they are searching for work. This requirement exists specifically to combat Paul's concern. A recent study found that when the benefits expire in January, the unemployment rate may drop 0.25-0.5 percentage point as disheartened workers stop looking for work when they can no longer receive benefits. The only thing keeping these Americans from giving up entirely is the EUC program. Second, according to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, unemployment benefits are only $300 per week on average, though it varies widely by state. That's barely above the poverty line. Third, long-term unemployed workers are at a distinct disadvantage in finding jobs. Once a person has been out of work for more than 26 weeks, employers are much less likely to hire them. This may be the greatest long-term effect of the great recession. Long-term unemployment may be making millions of workers permanently unemployable. Many of the long-term unemployed are not foregoing work because of their extra benefits. They simply can't get jobs at all. Fourth, the empirical evidence on how unemployment benefits affect work incentives is mixed. This past April, researchers at the†San Francisco Fed looked at whether the EUC program discouraged work from 2009 to 2012. They found that the extended benefits cause a slight decrease on the unemployment exit rate, but this primarily results from keeping Americans searching for work who otherwise would have dropped out of the labor force. In other words, the benefits did not cause people to forego work. They kept people looking for it. Other economists have found that extending the benefits has increased the unemployment rate since the Great Recession. There is no clear answer for how extended benefits affect work decisions. But think about the stakes. The worst-case situation if Democrats are wrong is that benefits do disincentivize work. Then, extending them is wasteful ($25 billion) and enables people to live off the government. That's not good. But the worst-case scenario if Paul is wrong is that they don't disincentivize work. In that case, not extending them would hurt millions of Americans at a time when they need help the most. Given the mixed evidence, each scenario is equally likely. Which one would you rather risk? Causing Americans to scam the government for a year or immiserating millions? This shouldn't be a difficult decision. Center for Budget and Policy PrioritiesAt some point, this program must end. It's meant to be a temporary reprieve for Americans who were hurt badly by the recession. It's not supposed to last forever. But it is supposed to last until we have a strong recovery and we are near full employment. As the graph to the right shows, that's how previous EUC programs have worked. This time though, Paul and his Republican colleagues want to end benefits for millions of Americans despite weak evidence and a slow recovery.  They may be right that jobless benefits discourage work. But they may also be wrong and that's a risk that's too big to take.
conorwithonen, FlickrSocGen currency analyst Sebastien Galy says in an email to clients that he has just gone further long risk in his personal account. He gives five reasons why: 1. The Fed told me too, US data is strong yet neither labour nor inflation signs are worrying for the Fed.2. because I had pulled out almost two weeks ago on expectations the rally would fatigue.3. there tends to be a rally in December linked to accounting gimmicks (sell losers to lock in tax loss buy, proxies as replacement) and portfolio beautification (I really am long that prestige stock I love less than my investor).4. Part of the hedge fund space is still running after their watermark or SPX performance.5. Bitcoin's bubble like characteristics tells me there is tremendous greed at play (1200 top this week and then down 500 usd or so), yet equity markets are not at nonsensical levels. Make of all those what you will.
Flickr / World of Good2013 wasn't a great year for emerging markets. Unfortunately, problems could persist a little longer. Emerging markets have a busy political calendar in 2014. And there are concerns that officials won't push through much needed reforms, sticking to populist policies ahead of the elections instead. This political disincentive, could only exacerbate economic woes in these countries. Let's take a quick look at the upcoming 2014 elections and what these mean for the country. Not everyone is as pessimistic about the impact of the elections on emerging market nations though. "Although election uncertainty suggests higher risk premia, elections could also be a catalyst for market-positive change," writes Alia Moubayed at Barclays. Here's a table of all the key emerging market elections in 2014 and 2015 from Barclays: Barclays
Wikimedia CommonsThe world's wealthiest men had to meet one important guideline to qualify for a new ranking of billionaires: they had to be single.† Wealth intelligence firm Wealth-X analyzed the assets of the wealthiest unmarried men in the world to create this list of the richest bachelors. Wealth-X Research uses a proprietary valuation model to assess all asset holdings, including privately and publicly held businesses and investible assets. Included are tech tycoons, music moguls, and even a Russian oligarch. These bachelors may not all be young, and they may not even be looking for love, but they are eligible.†
YouTube/MovieclipstrailersIn a few days, Jordan Belfort and his notorious pump-and-dump firm Stratton Oakmont will be immortalized in Martin Scorsese's film "Wolf of Wall Street." But, before you see the Hollywood version, check out former Stratton employee Josh Shapiro's firsthand account of his time at the firm in today's New York Post. The drugs, the scams, the prostitutes ó it's all there, with a side of intense remorse. Shapiro was a kid right out of the Marines when he joined the firm back in the '90s, now he's a physician's assistant. While he was killing it at Stratton, he was driving a $70,000 car, but he didn't buy a single piece of property: "I didnít think it was ever going to end. Property? The future? No. The future was right here and now." He "spent his money as fast as he could get it," but left the firm just days before the FBI raided the place. It's not hard to see how he got tired (from the NY Post): The office was basically separated into two parts: the cold callers in the back, and the brokers in the front. The cold callers were dressed in Van Heusen shirts and ties ó nothing too expensive. The guys in the front were sporting Armani, Boss, slicked back hair.Theyíd give meetings in the back to the cold callers where theyíd rip up $100 bills, throw them on the floor and tell them, ìDo you want to be a loser all your life, or do you want to make something out of your life? Do you want to be rich?î The motivational meetings in the morning were incredible.Porush gave meetings where heíd insult people, based on their performance. He would say: ìDoug, you sold 1,000 shares of stock in the last three weeks. You know, you should have slit your throat when you were shaving this morning.îHe would come out at other times, completely stewed out of his mind on Quaaludes. Stand on the desk, then fall onto the floor. Or he would come out angry, pick up a computer ó and these are the old CRT monitors ó and smash it on the floor as hard as he possibly could. And be like, ìYouíre all a bunch of f-<U+200A>-king losers unless you push this f-<U+200A>-king stock!î Shapiro's account is definitely worth a full read; check it out at the NY Post.
ShutterstockAs we covered in our report last month on the Best Suburbs in America, there are a lot of reasons people choose to move from larger cities into surrounding metro areas‚Äîor avoid large metros altogether. Those include crime, noise, and overcrowding, but another major factor is price. Not only can home prices be significantly higher in the big city, but so can the cost of everything from groceries to property taxes. That's why for this report we're focusing on the most affordable suburbs in the country to move to. Based on our criteria and data from a survey of 139 unique suburban cities, the Movoto Real Estate Blog concluded that Oklahoma City's neighboring Midwest City, OK is the most affordable suburb in America. The full top 10 includes: 1. Midwest City, OK 2. Moore, OK 3. Cimarron Hills, CO 4. Pearland, TX 5. Greenwood, IN 6. Clarksville, IN 7. Universal City, TX 8. Schertz, TX 9. Fishers, IN 10. Cibolo, TX These suburbs all offer a unique combination of low cost of living, affordable homes, and other aspects that make them good choices for those looking to enjoy suburban living without spending a fortune doing it. We'll dig deeper into the specific criteria we used in making this report, and how each of these 10 cities fared across them, below. In order to produce our ranking of the 10 most affordable suburbs in America, we first determined criteria that could be used to measure overall affordability. We decided on seven: Cost of living above/below national averageCost of food above/below national averageCost of utilities above/below national averageHousing affordability (ratio of median household income to median home price)Property tax rate percentage above/below national averageState income tax rate percentage above/below national averageSales tax rate percentage above/below national average We surveyed 139 suburbs in total, which comprise the largest suburbs of the 50 largest cities in the country. Once we had acquired our data from the U.S. Census, we gave each suburb a rating of one to 139 in our individual criteria, with one being the best possible score. Then, we averaged the individual criteria scores to arrive at an overall one to 139 score. This score determined our overall ranking. Once we had an overall ranking, the following cities emerged as the 10 best. Here are some specific details on why they fared so well: Located about eight miles east from the center of Oklahoma City, OK, Midwest City has the lowest overall cost of living of any suburb we surveyed at 18 points below the national average. The cost of food and utilities in this suburb are also considerably lower than average, at eight and 15 points below, respectively. Midwest City also has the best home affordability in our top 10, with a median home price to median household income ratio of 1.73 to one. The median price for a home in the city is $76,600 while the median household income there is $44,396. Property taxes are 24 percent below the national average, while sales and state income tax are 56 and 17 percent above average, respectively. Our second-most affordable suburb is also in Oklahoma‚Äîand also located just outside Oklahoma City. At 14 percent below the national average, Moore's overall cost of living is not quite as low as Midwest City's, but food and utilities there are obviously just about the same given their proximity. Home affordability is slightly lower in Moore, at a median home price to median household income ratio of 1.97 to one. Homes there have a median cost of $106,100 compared to the median household income of $53,976. Property tax at 8.5 percent below the national average and sales tax at 60 percent above are slightly higher than in our top-ranked suburb, but state income tax‚Äîas they're in the same state‚Äîis the same at 5.5 percent, or 17 percent above the national average. This suburb of Colorado Springs, CO is the westmost suburb in our top 10. The cost of living there is six points below the national average, while food and utilities are seven and 10 percent below, respectively. In terms of housing affordability, the home price to income ratio in Cimarron Hills is 2.65 to one, with the median home price at $146,900 and the median household income at $55,406. Property taxes in the area are 53 percent below the national average, while sales tax‚Äîat 48 percent above the national average‚Äîis lower than in our top two suburbs. State income tax in the area is 4.63 percent, which is about 1.5 percent below the U.S. average. The first of four Texas towns to make our top 10, Pearland is the only suburb of Houston, TX of the bunch. Its cost of food is the lowest in the top 10 suburbs at 18 points lower than the national average, while its utility costs are nine points below and overall cost of living is at six points less than average. At $168,100, the median home price in Pearland is the highest in our top 10, and paired with a median income of $75,945‚Äîsecond-highest of the 10‚Äîresults in a home price to income affordability ratio of 2.21 to one. There's no state income tax in Texas, so that is a plus in the town's favor, whereas its property tax is 38 percent above the national average and its sales tax is 65 percent above. As the first of two Indianapolis, IN suburbs in our top 10, Greenwood is only slightly closer to the capital of Indiana than Fishers, a town we'll be looking at a little further down. Greenwood also has a lower overall cost of living at six points below the national average, and lower utility costs at five points below average. Its cost of utilities, at seven points below average is slightly higher than Fishers by one point. Greenwood's median home price to income level of 2.87 to one gives the suburb the least affordable housing in our top 10. Homes there have a median price of $147,600 while the median household income is $51,482. Property tax in Greenwood is eight points below the national average, while sales tax is 20 percent above, and state income tax is six percent below. While Clarksville may be in Indiana, it's actually considered a suburb of Louisville, KY given its proximity to that city of less than five miles‚Äîjust on the other side of the Ohio River. The cost of living in Clarksville is better than in Greenwood or Fishers, at 12 points lower than the national average. Food costs are 11 points lower, while utility costs are actually five points higher than the U.S. average‚Äîthe only above-average utility cost in our top 10. Despite having the second-lowest median home price in our top 10‚Äî$83,700‚Äîthe housing cost to income ratio in Clarksville is still 2.18 to one due to the town's median household income of $38,339, the lowest of the 10 most affordable suburbs. State income tax in the town is the second-highest of our top 10 cities at 15 percent above the national average, while sales tax is 20 percent above and property tax is eight percent below. When it comes to the three suburbs of San Antonio, TX in our top 10, Universal City is the most affordable. Cost of living, food, and utilities are at 10, 15, and nine percent below the national averages, respectively. The smallest town in our top 10 at 14,849 residents, it has a ratio of home price to income of 2.27 to one. The median home price is $129,000 and the median household income is $56,812. Universal City's property tax is the highest in our top 10 at 72 percent above the national average. Sales tax is tired for the highest at 65 percent above average; Texas has no state income tax. Another San Antonio suburb, Schertz is about twice the size of Universal City, but is actually more affordable in terms of food and utility costs. Those are 16 and 11 percent below the national average, respectively, while the overall cost of living is four percent below. Homes in Schertz have a median price of $161,000, which when compared to the median household income of $65,650 creates a housing cost to income ratio of 2.45 to one. As with Universal City, there's no state income tax; sales tax and property tax are at 65 percent and 41 percent above the national average, respectively. As we mentioned earlier, Fishers is a suburb of Indianapolis, and as you can tell by its ranking in out top 10, it's considerably less affordable than Greenwood. In fact, it has the only above-average overall cost of living out of the 10 most affordable suburbs at seven points higher than the national average. Food and utility costs, on the other hand, are below average to the tune of eight and four points lower, respectively. There's a two to one housing price to income affordability ratio in Fishers, with the median home price at $168,000 and the median household income at $83,950‚Äîthe highest in our top 10. Property tax is six percent above the national average, while sales tax is 20 percent higher and state income taxes are 94 percent more. The final suburb to make our top 10, Cibolo is the third located within proximity of San Antonio. It also has the highest overall cost of living of the three, at three points below the national average. Its cost of food is considerably better, however, at 16 points below average, while its utility costs are 11 points below. Homes prices in Cibolo have a median value of $167,100 while the median household income is $70,183, for an affordability ratio of 2.38 to one. Property tax is 41 percent above the national average, while sales tax is 65 percent above. Since this is a town in Texas, there's no state income tax. It's worth noting that while we didn't factor livability into our calculations for this ranking, those looking to relocate to any of these suburbs can an anticipate them being above average in terms of safety, amenities, education, and other important factors. Of course, their affordability is always open to change given fluctuations in the housing market and the economy as a whole, but for now these suburbs are just about as affordable as one can expect. ¬†
Frank DiPascali joined Bernie Madoff's firm in 1975 when he was 19 years old. He eventually became the firm's finance chief. Monday in court, he described what it took to pull off a Ponzi scheme that spanned decades. In all honesty, it doesn't sound like much. Bloomberg has the details. DiPascali faces 125 years in prison for his part in one of the most infamous financial frauds of the last decade. He's cooperating with prosecutors, but that means revealing secrets he and his colleagues on trial kept for years in the service of Madoff. The meat of DiPascali's testimony had to do with the difference between fake trades and real trades. He alleges that any fool in the office would've been able to tell which ones were legitimate and which ones were not. From Bloomberg: DiPascali told jurors today there was no way employees at Madoff‚Äôs investment advisory unit could have confused fake trades for real ones, because the real trading taking place at Madoff‚Äôs broker-dealer involved counterparties, current trading prices and the coordination of several people making simultaneous phone calls ‚Äúin a very noisy environment.‚Äù By comparison, the fake trading in the investment advisory unit was based on historical prices taken out of newspapers and given to Bongiorno on index cards in a small, metal box about once a month, he said. ‚ÄúDid you see Ms. Bongiorno looking at real-time prices for stocks?‚Äù Assistant U.S. Attorney John Zach asked DiPascali. ‚ÄúNo,‚Äù DiPascali said. ‚ÄúCan you buy stock looking at yesterday‚Äôs prices in the Wall Street Journal?‚Äù Zach asked. ‚ÄúNo,‚Äù DiPascali said. DiPascali admitted that he knew all of this was wrong: He admitted that he lied to clients, and of course he also admitted that he's hoping for a substantial reduction in his sentence. We'll see how this works out for him.
AmazonWinter is always a good time to stay in and catch up on a little finance reading. In case you missed them, we've compiled a list of 22 classic works that every Wall Streeter should read. These are the books that show up time and again in lists of books recommended by the pros themselves. Topics covered include everything from the fundamentals of investing to the stories behind some of the Street's most speculative episodes in history.
Last week, Bank of America Merrill Lynch initiated coverage on Bitcoin and estimated a fair value of $1,300 on the digital currency. Despite this extraordinary endorsement, many aren't yet willing to acknowledge the legitimacy of Bitcoin. Here's what Bill Fleckenstein told Eric King of King World News: Yeah, it‚Äôs a giant chain-letter.¬† Everyone will lose all of their money that puts money in it.¬† It‚Äôs a complete joke.¬† Even a crappy currency has government taxing ability behind it, or some sort of a standing army or something like that. Bitcoin is nothing.¬† It‚Äôs dot-com mania 3.0 just moved one step over, right?¬† People are so enamored with communication with their phones and online commerce and all of that.¬† Now they‚Äôve invented what they call a currency to mess around with it, and people are speculating in it the same way they speculated in this other crap.¬† It‚Äôs not a currency at all, it‚Äôs a complete joke. Fleckenstein has been one of the most vocal critics of the Federal Reserve and its aggressive monetary policy. And for the most part, Fed critics have been somewhat understanding of the Bitcoin phenomenon because it acts as an alternative to the U.S. dollar. That's what makes Fleckenstein's denouncement of Bitcoin particularly powerful.
Today Kentucky Senator Rand Paul came up with an interesting argument for why unemployment benefits shouldn't be extended. From POLITICO: "I support unemployment benefits for the 28 weeks they're paid for," the Kentucky Republican said on "Fox News Sunday." "If you extend it beyond that, you do a disservice to these workers." Paul said a study had shown employers were less likely to hire the long-term unemployed like those who have been on 99 weeks of benefits. The insinuation is that unemployment benefits encourage people to stay unemployed longer than they otherwise would and that ending benefits would encourage them to get off their butts and get jobs. This is nonsense and it can be shown in one chart. In this chart, the red line is total job openings vs. the total number of unemployed. As you can see, the number of job openings vs. the number of unemployed remained very low... even lower than the very bottom of the last cycle in the mid-2000s. There just aren't jobs out there for the unemployed to get. The blue line shows total private investment as a share of GDP. This investment remains very low by recent standards, and without investment new jobs won't be created. Bottom line, solving the unemployment problem isn't about ending some made-up dependency problem. It's about boosting investment and creating more job openings. FRED
Over the past eight centuries, the locus of economic power has gradually shifted from Italy to Spain to the Netherlands to Great Britain and currently to the United States. The country at the center of the worldís power and economy issues bonds to cover expenses. Investors in that country and abroad purchase the bonds because they represent the safest bonds that are available for investment. The country at the center of economic power can issue more bonds at a lower cost because of the lower risk of the worldís economic center. Over time, power ebbs away from that country and investors begin placing their money in the bonds of the new world economic power. Italy was the center of the western economic world until the 1500s. Until then, the Mediterranean was the gateway to Byzantium, the Middle East, and through those countries, to India and China. The Italian city-states of Venice, Genoa, Florence and others grew from this trade, but also fought wars against each other requiring funds for those wars. By the 1600s, the nexus of economic power had shifted to the Netherlands as trade in the Atlantic and with northern Europe enabled the Dutch to strengthen their role in the global economy. The surplus of capital in the Netherlands is illustrated by the fact that Tulipmania, the worldís first bubble, which occurred in the Netherlands in the 1630s. The Netherlands was too small to maintain its role as the center of the global economy for long, and the combination of trade, and commercial and industrial revolutions moved the center of economic power to Great Britain at the end of the 1600s. The Glorious Revolution of 1688 realigned political power in England and put Britain on a sound economic footing that enabled it to remain the center of world economic and political power until 1914. After World War I, the center of economic power clearly shifted from London to New York and today, New York remains the center of the global economy. The Dollar is the worldís reserve currency, a fact that enables Washington to issue bonds at a lower cost than would otherwise be the case. Global Financial Data has put together an index of Government Bond yields that uses bonds from each of these centers of economic power over time to trace the course of interest rates over the†past seven centuries. From 1285 to 1600, Italian bonds are used. Data are available for the Prestiti of Venice from 1285 to 1303 and from 1408 to 1500 while data from 1304 to 1407 use the Consolidated Bonds of Genoa and the Juros of Italy from 1520 to 1598. General Government Bonds from the Netherlands are used from 1606 to 1699. Yields from Britain are used from 1700 to 1914, using yields on Million Bank stock (which invested in government securities) from 1700 to 1728 and British Consols from 1729 to 1918. From 1919 to date, the yield on US 10-year bond is used. Bond yields are determined by a number of factors. These include 1) the growth in real GDP, 2) the inflation rate, 3) supply and demand factors, and 4) risk. The yield on a risk-free government bond should equal the growth in nominal GDP since that represents the opportunity cost of holding a government bond both in terms of investment opportunities (real GDP) and the time value of money (inflation). Higher levels of growth or higher inflation will lead to higher interest rates. Increases in the number of bonds (demand for savings) will lead to higher interest rates, while increases in savings will lead to lower interest rates. Finally, the perceived riskiness of the bonds can lead to higher interest rates. Investors may fear that the government may fail to pay back the bonds, reduce the real cost of the bonds through inflation, or depreciate the currency as a way of reducing their cost. All of these factors can impact the price of Government Bonds, and thus their yield. The trend over the past seven centuries has been for bond yields to decline.†This canít be attributed to lower economic growth or lower inflation, but must clearly be attributed to lower risk of default. Between 1285 and the mid-1600s, yields on government bonds fluctuated between 6% and 10% and in some cases were around 20%. Because there is little data on government bond yields before the 1700s, the spikes in yields that occur can be attributed to specific events that affected the issuers, generally the risk of default stemming from wars that occurred. It may very well be that yields on other securities were lower at different points in time up to the 1700s, but the paucity of data makes it difficult to determine this. Nevertheless, the trend is clear. Since 1700, well developed markets for bonds have existed in London and New York enabling the yields on government bonds to be traced with accuracy. Since the mid-1600s, the average yield on government bonds has been around 4%. Before the 1600s, high interest rates were driven by risk; since the 1600s, high interest rates have been driven by inflation. Being the center of economic power provides benefits to that country because it can issue bonds at a lower cost than a country in the periphery. In the long run, this can lead to over issuance of debt if the country chooses to take advantage of its position by issuing excessive debt to investors in other countries. With the mushrooming US government debt, some people are beginning to wonder whether the United States will be able to maintain its position as the worldís central economic power. Before looking at the United States, letís look at government bond yields in Italy, the Netherlands and Great Britain in the past. Because of the paucity of data from before 1700, bond yields as given in Sidney Homerís A History of Interest Rates, are used. The two principal sources are the Prestiti of Venice (Figure 1) and the Consolidated Bonds of Genoa. During Medieval times, governments used taxes on trade and revenues from monopolies, on salt for example, to cover expenses during regular times, but inevitably wars broke out leading to the need to raise additional money. The government would have to find some way to force nobles and businessmen to hand over money to cover the costs of war. Genoa and Venice used ìforced loansî as a way of raising funds from its citizens. The two city-states consolidated these forced loans and allowed creditors to trade these forced loans on open markets turning them into modern-day bonds. The debts had no maturity date, but during periods of peace, the governments would use surplus revenues to retire some of these debts. Governments that met interest payments on their forced loans, paid off debts during peace times, and did not default on these debts could establish confidence in their debt, enabling them to issue more bonds in the future. As Venice prospered, it increased its ability to service its loans. Venice established a fund to repurchase Prestiti, floated voluntary loans when necessary, borrowed in anticipation of future tax collections, and established a credible record of repayment. This enabled the cities of Venice and Genoa to borrow money at 6%-10% during Medieval times and during the Renaissance, rather than the 10%-15% that other rulers had to pay. Global Financial Data As the center of trade shifted out of the Mediterranean and into the Atlantic after 1500, the center of economic power shifted as well. The rulers of Spain, France and England had periodically defaulted or forced loans on their subjects, and failed to establish a record of regular repayment of loans that would have enabled them to become the financial centers of Europe. WikimediaThe Dutch East India CompanyThe Netherlands successfully liberated itself from Spain between 1568 and 1648. The Dutch established the Dutch east India Company in 1602 and the Dutch West India Company in 1621. The Netherlands didnít have to pay for an expensive court, fought their wars at home rather than abroad, profited from international trade, and saved money. The Amsterdam Exchange dealt not only in shares of the Dutch East India Company and Dutch West India Company, but in government bonds as well. Most securities were in the form of Annuities issued by the individual provinces, the United Provinces and the towns. This is the essential way in which Dutch lending differed from Italian lending. The Italian credit system relied upon a system of private international banking. The Medicis and other commercial bankers would lend their funds to states, knowing the risks involved. The Italians also had officially chartered banks that intermediated deposits and loans. Outside of the Italian city-states, loans to heads of state were basically personal loans that clearly ran the risk of default. Spanish, French and English kings borrowed when they had to, defaulted when they couldnít pay, but had no system of drawing upon the savings of the public. The Dutch, on the other hand, developed state finance based upon the governmentís ability to pledge its revenues against†the annuities they had issued. †Having no royal court, and relying upon local governments, the Dutch paid off loans on time with little risk of default. As risk declined, interest rates fell to 4% (Figure 2), the lowest they had ever been in history, and a rate consistent with the low level of default risk that governments enjoy today. Global Financial Data The Glorious Revolution of 1688 transformed England politically and economically. Unlike his predecessors, William III was a constitutional monarch. Though he had no pretensions to absolute personal power, and though in theory he borrowed on behalf of the English people, he also represented the Whig mercantile interests which backed him and dominated Parliament. The Bank of England was established in 1694, borrowing at 8% (when Dutch rates were at 3-4%), and in 1720, the attempt to convert existing government debt into shares in the South Sea Company created the South Sea Bubble. By the 1740s, interest rates had declined to the 3% range and in 1751 the 3% British Consols were issued, which are still traded in London today. As can be seen by the graph of long-term interest rates, the risk of default on British debt has been almost non-existent as illustrated by the consistently low interest rates, except in time of inflation. During the Napoleonic Wars, Britainís Government debt as a share of GDP exceeded 200%, but government bond yields stayed below 6%. After 1815, British capital funded canals, railroads in the UK, America and other countries, mines in Latin American, Britainís colonies and foreign bonds issued by every government in the world. Since there were no major wars or fiscal crises in the UK after 1815, Britainís Government debt shrank to 20% of GDP by 1914. Interest rates on government bonds fell below 2.5% in 1896, enabling Britain to reduce the interest rate on its Consols to 2.5%. Other countries also benefited from the decline in interest rates. The United States, Germany, France and other countries were all able to issue government debt at 3% by the end of the 1800s, whereas at the beginning of the 1800s, 5-6% or even more was the norm. Small government, due to few or small wars, combined with shrinking government debt reduced the risk of default and lowered interest rates throughout the world. World War I shifted the worldís financial center from London to New York. In 1915, British bond yields rose above American yields and have remained that way ever since. The United States has never defaulted on its Central government bonds, so rises in bond yields have been driven mainly by higher rates of economic growth, inflation, and the supply and demand for government bonds. There are several clear trends in government bonds in the US during the past 100 years. From 1902 to 1920, bond yields rose from 2.82% to 5.67%, with most of the increase occurring between 1914 and 1920 due to the risks of war and inflation. From 1921 to 1945, interest rates fell from 5.67% to 1.55% due to deflation, depression and the manipulation of bond yields during World War II by the government. From 1945 to 1981, interest rates rose from 1.55% to 15.84%. This was the highest level for government bond yields in almost 500 years as inflation spiraled out of control due to Keynesian economic policies. Between 1981 and 2011, bond yields fell from 15.85% to 1.46%. What will this chart look like at the end of the 21st century? The clear driving factor for bond yields over the past seven centuries has been the responsibility or irresponsibility of national governments. From Venice and Genoa to the Netherlands, Britain and the United States, when governments kept borrowing to a minimum and paid off their debts, interest rates fell, benefiting not only the national, but the global economy. Capital was freed up for the private sector which contributed to the success of the industrial revolution. The 1700s and 1800s had the lowest interest rates in history. The 1900s enjoyed both some of the lowest and the highest interest rates (Figure 3), depending upon the level of inflation generated by the government. Since the risk of default is low, it is inflation and the supply and demand for bonds that has driven interest rates since the mid-1700s. Global Financial Data Government bond yields reached their lowest levels in history in 2012, dropping below 1.50%. Whether bond yields start to rise from here will depend upon the behavior of the government and its willingness to balance its books. US government debt has increased to over 100% of GDP. This is no guarantee that interest rates will rise since investors flee to US Government Debt as a haven of safety. Britainís debt exceeded 200% of GDP after the Napoleonic Wars and Japan has run deficits for 20 years with its government debt edging toward 200% of GDP. Nevertheless, Britain paid off its debt during the 1800s keeping interest rates from rising. Japan has seen no growth in nominal GDP during the past 20 years, and has been able to rely upon domestic savings to fund its growing government debt. Currently, there is no prospect that the United States will begin to pay off its debt as Britain did in the 1800s, and low interest rates are little consolation if your economy is not growing. When the economy returns to more normal growth rates and the rest of the world becomes less risky, government bond yields will rise. Even if the United States were to suffer the fate of Japan and fail to grow for the next 20 years, which is unlikely, its inability to fund its debt domestically, and the inevitable growth of China, India and other emerging markets, is likely to drive growth and interest rates upward in the decades to come. Although the United States may not default on its debt, it can reduce the burden through inflation or depreciation. If this were to occur, the balance of financial power could shift again. Whether United States bond yields are used in this graph at the end of the 21st Century, or those of China, India or some other country will depend upon the fiscal constraint or profligacy of the US Government. As long as investors perceive that the United States remains the center of the worldís economy with little risk of default, the United States can continue to benefit from low government bond yields, but if US government debt continues to grow and another economic center develops which is perceived as being safer than the United States, the US could lose its role as the center of the global economy and all the benefits that go with it. Global Financial Data
Wikimedia CommonsCaracas, Venezuela is the most expensive place for foreigners, according to a new Cost of Living survey by consulting firm ECA International. Tokyo dropped from most expensive expatriate destination in the world to 10th as a softer¬†Yen caused several Japanese cities to be much less expensive than in 2012.¬† Tokyo and Beijing are the most expensive cities¬†in Asia. Costs in African cities are rising across the board. Tel Aviv is now the 24th most expensive (up from 46th) while Paris came in at 29th.  New York City stayed at 50. Interestingly, London is not on the list. ECA
If you think¬†Wal-Mart¬†(NYSE:¬†WMT¬†¬†) is done stretching its tentacles throughout every city and town in America, then I have bad news for you: It's just getting started. For much of the last few decades, the world's largest retailer focused on building out its now-omnipresent supercenters. The strategy was to cater to the so-called "stock-up" trip, the weekly or monthly visit in which customers purchased a large quantity of food, housing supplies, and general merchandise. At last count, Wal-Mart's portfolio of supercenters exceeded 3,200 units, or 80% of its fleet of locations. The problem with such large stores, however, is that they can't be placed in near proximity to each other without cannibalizing sales. This left a vacuum that was soon filled by competitors like¬†Dollar General¬†and¬†Family Dollar. What to do? Should Wal-Mart just lay down and die? Or will it be able to get over the indignity of having a handful of deep-discount retailers feed on the scraps it absentmindedly left behind? Suffice it to say, neither of these options seem likely. At a recent industry conference, Bill Simon, CEO of Wal-Mart's U.S. operations,¬†laid bare¬†(link opens PDF) the retailer's strategy for mopping up the slop, differentiating between three different types of Wal-Mart locations. [O]ver 20 years ago, we . . . created the stock-up trip and we continue to deliver well against that. It's the largest of the trips. It's fundamentally served by supercenters and [Sam's Club]. Now increasingly, we're using our smaller stores to provide a convenient access to customer so the customers can access our assortment and our everyday low prices much closer to where they live. And the neighborhood store is well-positioned for that basic food trip, the traditional grocery trip, And finally, there's this emerging trip that's immediate access. It used to be more of a convenient store driven trip but with the growth in dollar and drug channels and some of the hard discounters. This trip is one of the fastest growing trip sizes and the Wal-Mart express store has sort of uniquely found a way to participate in that and we can be larger in this segment and we're planning on doing that. What does this look like from a geographic standpoint? Here's a depiction from thepresentation slides¬†(link opens PDF) that accompanied Simon's remarks: Wal-Mart The strategic objective is obviously to fill in the void between supercenters using the now-familiar neighborhood store and the up-and-coming express formats. Wal-Mart already has more than 300 of the former in operation, and it's just now beginning to delve into the latter (of which there are only 20) with earnestness. As Simon noted in his presentation, "the customer response [to the express format] has been very, very good," delivering double-digit comps in the first half of the current fiscal year. What should we take away from this? In the first case, if Wal-Mart does indeed proceed with its plan to capture every last drop of commerce that settled in the gaps between its superstores, then it's probably smart to start saying your goodbyes to the likes of Dollar General and Family Dollar. Up against a behemoth like Wal-Mart, they aren't long for this world. The better news, on the other hand, is for investors in Wal-Mart's stock who have worried where additional growth will come from. Suffice it to say, this appears to be the company's answer. John Maxfield¬†has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services¬†free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that¬†considering a diverse range of insights¬†makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a¬†disclosure policy.
Jim McCluskey/FlickrWe recently laid out the case that the tech sector was in a massive 1990s-style bubble, poised to pop. But at Business Insider's Ignition 2013 conference last month, boutique investment bank Gridley &amp; Co. laid out the case that, in fact, valuations are currently way below the mania we saw in the dot-crom crash of the turn of the century. Gridley advised parties in DoubleClick's acquisition of Performics and Digitas' buyout of Modem Media. Here is a condensed version of the deck Gridley presented at Ignition, with a focus on the bubble-icious ó or not ó nature of the current state of tech.
REUTERS/Jason ReedU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke opens a bottle of water.The November jobs report from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics said 203,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls last month, well above the consensus Wall Street forecast of 185,000 job gains. The strong employment numbers have Wall Street economists and strategists pulling forward their predictions for when the Federal Reserve will begin to wind down its quantitative easing program, with some saying the Fed could pull the trigger on tapering as soon as its December FOMC meeting in two weeks. Below is a summary of their views. Jan Hatzius, Goldman Sachs:†Hatzius calls the November jobs report "strong overall," but sticks to his call that the FOMC will wait until its March meeting to announce tapering, while noting that the 7.0% unemployment rate ó the level which Fed chairman Ben Bernanke previously flagged as a spot where the central bank would likely end winding down QE ó will add further fuel to the argument that the FOMC announces tapering "sooner rather than later." (via Bloomberg) Steven Englander, Citi:†"This is good enough for the Fed to discuss tapering in a concrete but market-friendly fashion, while reiterating and possibly emphasizing their commitment to keeping rates low for a very long time.†The nice thing about the NFP release is that it was nowhere near threatening enough to make the market worry that the Fed will be tempted to raise rates sooner than they indicated. With short rates anchored near zero, being short 10yr Treasuries is expensive unless your timing on the next big shock is very good. The moderately positive payroll number has put gentle tapering up as a Dec/Jan possibility but it has removed any risk of harsh tapering in market." Alan Ruskin, Deutsche Bank:†"The Fed will take todayís data in the context of some improvement in growth momentum from other indicators, which is why it likely clinches a December tapering. It also comes against a backdrop of promising signals on a budget deal that is however not signed and sealed; and, a still buoyant equity market that has weathered this latest data remarkably well. That equities are this strong is a clear signal to the Fed that tapering will not do too much damage to risk appetite ó which will have the effect of making a Dec tapering even more likely! Equity strength has also tempered the FX impact in high beta EM and commodity currencies that initially weakened sharply on the release. The markets are trading like 1) they were well positioned for strong data; and, 2) would be relieved if the Fed tapers in December and so removes the tapering timing uncertainty. All of that is quashing the immediate positive USD impact, even if this data should provide a solid underpinning for the USD in coming weeks, notably against favorite shorts like the JPY and CAD in G10." Drew Matus, UBS: "We continue to anticipate a taper announcement at the January FOMC meeting. However, despite the strong report we expect an overly cautions Fed will want even more proof that job gains can be sustained. Our credit model for payrolls (which has been performing well, see chart) and our work on the labor force participation rate suggest that these gains can be sustained and that the unemployment rate is still at ìriskî of falling more quickly than is anticipated by either the Fed or the market consensus. Nevertheless, we would expect the Fed to acknowledge the sustained healthy job gains in the FOMC meeting on December 18th, a shift in tone that will set the market up for the taper announcement we expect at Chairman Bernankeís final meeting in January." Michael Gapen, Barclays:†"We maintain our view that the Fed will taper its purchases beginning next March. The recent employment data do increase the likelihood that the Fed could taper its asset purchases in December, but we believe the committee will continue to view declines in the unemployment rate as overstating the amount of improvement in labor markets. In addition, we believe the Fed desires to see an acceleration in economic activity and some indication that inflation is returning towards its long-run goal before it begins the tapering process. On these fronts, we believe the committee will discount Q3 GDP growth on account of the substantial inventory contribution and focus on rates of growth in final demand, which has remained more subdued. In addition, with core PCE inflation at 1.1% y/y in October, some on the committee may be reluctant to begin tapering without more evidence of inflation firmness. Consequently, although the November employment report shows further cumulative improvement in labor markets since QE3 began and brings the Fed closer to tapering, we believe it will remain patient before taking the step." Ward McCarthy, Jefferies: McCarthy says it's "time for a gentle taper," warning that the November jobs report may lead the Fed to reduce its purchases of Treasuries by $5 billion per month at its December meeting. He says private payrolls are "getting close to the promised land" of replacing the headcount lost in the recession, and that the labor market should be back to "square one" by April. (via Bloomberg) Chris Rupkey, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ: "Net net, the economy is moving strongly in the right direction and momentum is starting to build. †As the fiscal headwinds diminish next year, the wind will shift and push economic growth along at a faster pace. †Unemployment is falling for the right reason with sustainable private business hiring of 2.4 million jobs in 2011, 2.3 million in 2012 and 2.1 million so far in 2013. †What else is the Fed waiting for? †The economy has reached escape velocity and could well blast off in 2014. †Donít ask when is the time to taper, the time to taper is NOW!" Millan Mulraine, TD Securities:†"This is an unambiguously positive report and it suggests that the US economic recovery is continuing to generate significant positive momentum. In many ways, this report validates the strong tone seen in the other economic reports and it will add further confidence to the Fed of a reduced need for monetary stimulus in the US economy. As such, we now see the bias shifting in favor of a January tapering announcement, especially if a budget deal is reached in time to avoid another government shutdown on January 15. However, we see a December tapering announcement as a low probability event." Paul Ashworth, Capital Economics:†"The 203,000 increase in November's non-farm payrolls, along with the drop in the unemployment rate to a five-year low of 7.0%, gives the Fed all the evidence it needs to begin tapering its asset purchases at the next FOMC meeting later this month. The Fed got cold feet in September, when it learned that employment growth had dipped below 100,000 in July. Over the past four months, however, the average monthly gain has been over 200,000 ...†given the apparent strength in the labour market, we now expect the Fed to begin its taper at the upcoming FOMC meeting." Andrew Wilkinson, Miller Tabak: "The driver for the FOMC is the headline unemployment rate, which we continue to predict will result in a mere $5 billion reduction in the flow of security purchases at the December meeting. Mr. Bernanke can support that decision with evidence of what appears to be sustainable improvement in the headline reading and point to the micro statistics as reasoning to delay the onset of any increase in the fed funds rate into 2016 or beyond.†When the FOMC met in mid-September and decided against the onset of tapering at the time, the three-month average pace of payroll creation was 175,000. And although the November report is not strong enough to replace the subsequently revised August reading of 238,000 which drops out of the quarterly equation today, the latest average reads 192,000 and is 17,000 above its September pace." Jim O'Sullivan, High Frequency Economics:†O'Sullivan says the FOMC will probably wait to start tapering until the January or March meetings as opposed to the December meeting. He says the "trend in payrolls continues to be more than strong enough to keep the unemployment rate trending down." (via Bloomberg) Tom di Galoma, ED&amp;F Man Capital Markets:†Loads of talk about tapering in January now due to today's solid jobs data. With regard to tapering, it's a little like skydiving for the first time: the Fed wants to do it but is very nervous about the repercussions. I am still of the view that March is when tapering begins. We will add more commentary to this post as it comes in.
California is so big, and its industries are so diverse, that the state is something of a microcosm for the entire national economic picture. In its latest weekly review of the economy, Wells Fargo takes a special look at the California economy and the bifurcated nature of the recovery. Rich areas where demand for real estate is high and tech is a big thing are hot. While interior regions associated with manufacturing and agriculture have seen mediocre comebacks. They write: The uneven nature of the economic recovery is evident across California, with the coastal areas largely enjoying stronger job gains, reduced unemployment and more robust gains in home prices. The interior parts of the state have not been as lucky, with meager job gains, stubbornly high unemployment rates and less of a rebound in home prices. Although overall conditions in the state are improving, a number of splits are evident; newer industries such as mobile devices, social media, search and cloud computing have taken off, while old mainstays such as agriculture, manufacturing and construction have struggled to regain traction. Although geography and the distinctly different industry mix are responsible for much of the split economic performance in California, the Fed‚Äôs unconventional monetary policy has also played a major role. Low interest rates and the Fed‚Äôs continuous monthly securities purchases have helped fuel the stock market rally, which has disproportionately benefitted California‚Äôs wealthier areas and funneled billions of dollars into the state‚Äôs technology sector. The tidal wave of liquidity has made its way into the housing market, as big institutional investors have bought up distressed properties and repositioned them as rentals, sending home prices soaring in many areas across the state. As you can see on the map, the Bay Area and parts of the coast are doing quite nicely, with sub-8% unemployment rates. Just a bit inland you have many counties with over 10% unemployment, and some with greater than 14% unemployment. Wells Fargo
These are always nice. From Morgan Stanley, the entire debate about what the US economy will do in 2014 in one huge slide. Morgan Stanley
South Korea Sunday declared an expanded air defence zone that overlaps with one announced by China and covers a submerged rock disputed by the two countries, as tensions rise over competing territorial claims. The defence ministry said its new zone, which will take effect on December 15, would cover Ieodo -- a rock in waters off its south coast which China calls Suyan. The airspace above the Seoul-controlled rock -- long a source of tension between South Korea and China -- is also covered by Chinese and Japanese air defence zones. China heightened tensions last month when it unilaterally declared an Air Defence Identification Zone (ADIZ) in the East China Sea, in which foreign planes are supposed to file flight plans with Beijing. The zone -- which encompasses some areas currently controlled by South Korea or Japan -- has drawn intense protests from the two neighbours and objections from key allies such as the United States. "We will coordinate with related countries to fend off accidental military confrontations and to ensure the safety of airplanes," said South Korean defence ministry spokesman Kim Min-Seok. "The new air defence zone is in line with international aviation rules and protocols," he said. Kim said Seoul had notified its neighbours and related nations in advance about its new air zone -- the first revision to its air defence area for 62 years. The new zone was expanded by about 66,480 square kilometres (25,670 square miles) -- or about two thirds of the size of the country -- in waters off its south coast, the defense ministry said. There was no immediate comment from China or Japan on the South Korean move. The US State Department spokesperson Jen Psaki confirmed that Seoul had consulted with Washington earlier, saying US officials "appreciate" the South's "efforts to pursue this action in a responsible... fashion" by notifying its neighbours in advance. Tension has been high since the air zone declaration by China, which neighbours see as a push to assert its growing military might and territorial claims. In addition to Ieodo China's ADIZ covers disputed Tokyo-controlled islands, known as the Senkakus in Japan and the Diaoyus in China, that have been at the centre of a simmering territorial row. Both Tokyo and Seoul have rejected Beijing's demand that all aircraft traversing the Chinese zone file flight plans and ID details. The US flew two US B-52 bombers through the area without complying, followed by similar moves by Japan and South Korea whose planes also entered the zone without notifying China. The latest tension over the air zone overshadowed the visit last week by US Vice President Joe Biden to the three nations. Biden warned China against raising tension in the region, saying regional peace and stability were in its interests. Biden, during talks with South Korean President Park Geun-Hye, also expressed "understanding" for Seoul's approach including the revision of its air zone, according to a senior US official. Boo Hyung-wook, a researcher at the Korea Institute of Defense Analyses, said the latest dispute stems from China's desire to strengthen its claim over the Senkakus by extending its air defence zone. "Since South Korea was so close to Japan, it was unavoidable (for China) to let some of its air zone overlap with Korea, which has led to all this trouble with Seoul," Boo said. "It's really time for the three neighbours to sit together to avoid the worst case scenario," he said, adding however it was "highly unlikely" that the latest row would lead to an actual military clash.
BEIJING (AP) ‚Äî China's November exports accelerated but import growth slumped in a sign the recovery of the world's second-largest economy might be slowing. Exports surged 12.7 percent over a year earlier to $202.2 billion, up from October's 5.6 percent expansion, trade data showed Sunday. Imports rose 5.3 percent to $168.4 billion, but that growth was down from the previous month's 7.6 percent. China's economic growth rebounded in the three months ending in September to 7.8 percent after plunging to a two-decade low the previous quarter. But forecasters have warned that was likely to be temporary and growth would fall back late this year or early in 2014. The rebound was driven by a government mini-stimulus based on higher spending on building railways and other public works. Chinese leaders are trying to guide the economy to slower, more sustainable growth based on domestic consumption instead of exports and investment. An unexpectedly sharp decline raised the risk of politically volatile job losses and prompted them to reverse course temporarily to prop up growth. The relative strength in November exports should help to reassure communist leaders who faced the prospect of job losses in trade-dependent industries due to weak global demand. Slower Chinese growth and weaker demand would have global repercussions for suppliers of raw materials, technology and consumer goods. The import slowdown caused China's global trade surplus to widen by 73 percent to $33.8 billion over a year earlier, one of its widest trade gaps this year. China's trade surplus with the 27-nation European Union was $10.2 billion, while that with the United States was $22.4 billion. ___ General Administration of Customs of China (in Chinese): www.customs.gov.cn Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
