I don't relish the job of constantly pointing out the risks to the equity markets. But since few on Wall Street seem willing (or able) to do this, I'm "making the call" for a market correction, as enough variables have aligned to indicate a high likelihood of stocks heading downwards from here. I've only given one other such warning about equities before, and that was in March of 2008, when I warned of the possibility of a 40% to 60% decline in stock prices by Fall. I am making a similar call today, with the understanding that I am usually a bit early to the game with my views. Before I get into the details, the broad outline is that I see a case where speculative fevers, propelled by the Fed's $85 billion thin-air money printing program, have more or less run their course, with the Dow and S&amp;P indexes stalled near their all-time highs. That is, $85 billion a month is what it takes to merely keep the Dow near 14,000 and the S&amp;P 500 near 1,500. On a fundamental basis, I see numerous signs of consumer weakness, political in-fighting and paralysis in DC, high insider selling, and the return of the retail investor (a.k.a. "greater fool") to the stock market.¬† On a technical basis, there are numerous tell-tale signs of a market top, including too much bullish sentiment, waning momentum on multiple timeframes, and too many NYSE stocks being above their 200-day moving average (at least until recently; that's begun to correct).  (Source) The S&amp;P 500 and Dow Jones are both once again near all-time highs‚Ä¶for the third time.¬† The old saying third time‚Äôs a charm can work both ways when it comes to the stock market.¬† Sometimes an index will bust through to new highs, and other times it will fail spectacularly crashing to new lows. We should all be watching the behavior of the major indexes here, because the possibility of a major triple-top failure is quite high, for reasons outlined below. If the S&amp;P 500 fails at the triple top and breaks down, from a charting perspective the next thing for it to do is revisit the bottom and then make up its mind as to what it wants to do next.¬† The implication here is that a major failure of the S&amp;P 500 will open the possibility of it revisiting the 600-800 level, or some 45% to 60% lower from the 1,500 level where it currently churns. It will take some time to get to that level, typically 3-6 months, unless there‚Äôs some sort of financial accident to hasten things along, in which case it could all be over in a month or two.  Assuming a failure at the triple top, we‚Äôll just have to watch and see what the market wishes to do once it plumbs the bottom once again.¬† For now, the daily and weekly charts of the S&amp;P 500 show waning momentum, and the weekly chart remains in overbought territory (green lines and circles):   These overbought and slumping momentum indicators are headwinds to the Fed‚Äôs efforts to keep the stock market elevated.¬† From a historical standpoint, stocks are cheap when they sport a collective p/e in the high single digits.¬† Currently they are anything but cheap on that basis.¬†  (Source) With a current p/e of 22, the S&amp;P 500 is on the expensive ‚Äì rather than cheap ‚Äì side of things, and is roughly 35% above its long-term average and more than 100% above what we could legitimately call 'cheap.' The summary here is that if stocks do indeed retreat from here, a triple-top failure will deliver quite a punishing blow to the current efforts to repair the public‚Äôs trust in the stock market as a place to send their hard-earned savings to grow.¬† It would be quite difficult to engineer a run at a fourth top, given the importance of retail participation in providing fuel for the rise of stocks ‚Äì especially given that the boomers are retiring at the rate of 10,000 per day and drawing upon their investments instead of adding to them. The younger generation(s) have been the main victims of the high unemployment and general wage stagnation that have been the hallmarks of the Great Recession. ¬†It is not likely that they will be able to save and invest at a rate equal to the boomer's withdrawals, creating one more equity headwind for the Fed to overcome. Of course, another old adage that applies to the stock market is sell in May and go away, which has proven to be a remarkably effective strategy over the years.¬† The average return between May and September is -0.5%, while it is over 12% for the rest of the year.  (Source) Why this yearly vacillation of returns occurs is open to speculation, but a betting person would have to think long and hard about buying stocks here ‚Äì with May approaching and the Dow and S&amp;P at all-time highs ‚Äì rather than staying on the sidelines and then buying back in September or October if one was so inclined. However, given the macro forces at play at this time, this May-to-September period could easily offer much more dramatic losses than 0.5%.¬† I am personally thinking as much as two full orders of magnitude greater, as -50% is right in the middle of my target window for losses. As always, the best time to begin repositioning one‚Äôs portfolio is before any big moves get underway, so I personally would not wait until May to make adjustments, assuming one was of a mind to do so. Whether or not you forego selling stocks, lighten up your positions, or take on some form of portfolio protection in the form of puts or inverse ETFs, these seem like good things to do before April is over. Technically stocks are overbought. Fundamentally, the picture is even worse: they are facing a litany of economic drags (including weakening GDP growth, higher taxes, the impact of Obamacare, sequester cuts, high gasoline prices, chronic unemployment, etc.) and robust insider selling.¬† We explore these fundamental risks and their likely impact in great depth in Part II. For all of these reasons, equity markets face a very high chance of falling over 40% between now and fall of 2013.¬† (Yes, I'm aware of how extreme a price prediction this is.) While there‚Äôs always a chance that the Fed can keep things magically elevated ‚Äì and they‚Äôve done a very good job so far ‚Äì¬† it is my view that they cannot do this for much longer without a serious correction to justify an even larger program of overt and covert intervention.¬† In Part II: How the Market Failure Will Happen, I detail how the pattern I expect to see will play out ‚Äì and why I expect the fall in equity prices to happen within the May-September window.¬† This downdraft will be characterized by lots of volatility, formed by market routs and Fed-inspired rescues, alternating until some form of bottom is reached.¬† Along the way there will likely be a flight for "safety" into the dollar and Treasury paper, but only during the first stage of the next crisis. Once a bottom is reached ‚Äì again, this might be anywhere from 40% to 60% lower than the current ~1500 level on the S&amp;P 500 ‚Äì the process will begin to be dominated by rising government borrowing, which will cause interest rates to begin to rise.¬† When that happens, expect capital to flee the paper market for hard assets.¬† In particular, that's when the upwards price revolution in the gold and silver markets will kick into high gear. Click here to read Part II of this report (free executive summary; enrollment required for full access).
Doug Short of¬†Advisor Perspectives put up his nifty chart breaking down how various components contributed to the latest revised¬†GDP Q4 estimate from the BEA, which printed at +0.1 percent. Here's the quick recap:¬† And now,¬†Doug's chart: Doug Short/Advisor Perspectives
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonChina is planning an overhaul of its bond market, according to an exclusive report by Reuters' Nick Edwards and Benjamin Kang Lam. This is part of the Communist Party's attempt to raise money for its 40 trillion yuan ($6.4 trillion) urbanization program, according to the report. China currently relies on state banks to fund investment but the amount needed for this program can't be met by banks alone. The Chinese junk bond market is in its nascency and it doesn't have an adequate muni-bond market: "Total debt outstanding in China's fledgling bond market was 26.4 trillion yuan as of the end of January 2013, People's Bank of China (PBOC) data shows - barely a sixth of the size of the U.S. bond market - and most of what is traded is issued by policy banks to support their lending. "...The need for bond market reform has grown more urgent since December, when Li accelerated a commitment in China's 12th five-year plan to spend 40 trillion yuan on Urbanization by 2030. That money will now be spent over the next decade." China has been loosening capital controls since the 18th Party Congress in November, and this would fit into that trend. From the report: "The urbanization drive will push the domestic capital market liberalization agenda," the senior bank executive said on condition of anonymity. "Urbanization is Li Keqiang's big project. He has to get it right and he is willing to pursue innovation to make it a success." But will urbanization really help revive growth? Chinese policymakers are pushing urbanization as a way to drive economic growth. But analysts have warned that the impact of urbanization on the nation's productivity is decreasing.¬† Citi's Peter Orszag has said that China is near its Lewis turning point i.e. the point at which the shift of people from agriculture to manufacturing does not lead to productivity gains. Societe Generale's Wei Yao had this to say on the subject: "For an emerging economy to catch up, moving farmers to manufacturing plants is a key source of productivity gain in the early stage. China‚Äôs experience in the past three decades was a typical example. "The 10-year average growth rate of China‚Äôs urban population growth was 4.8% in the 1980s, 4.2% in the 1990s and 3.8% in the 2000s. The impact of this rapid urbanization on total factor productivity (TFP) was particularly pronounced. We estimate that this source accounted for about 30% of the impressive TFP growth. "However, urban population growth should also decelerate rapidly in the current decade. The UN projected China‚Äôs urban population to grow 2.5% in the 2010s, 1.3ppt slower than in the previous decade. As a result, China‚Äôs labor productivity growth, which averaged 8% in the 1990s and 9.5% in the 2000s, will normalize lower as well." Experts warn that to make urbanization work China needs to continue pushing market reforms too. Click here to read Reuters piece &gt;
Australia Industry GroupAustralian PMINew data shows that Australia's manufacturing sector contracted for the twelfth straight months.† According to the Australian Industry Group, the country's manufacturing PMI came in at 45.6 in February.† Readings below 50 indicate contraction.† And this has been going on for a year. It's worth noting, however, that this number is an improvement from 40.2 in January. "Manufacturing is showing tentative signs of a pick-up following improvements in new orders, production and employment sub-indices during February, even though all remained below 50 points," wrote AIG. "Survey respondents cited a range of inhibitors, including: soft demand; weak confidence; and the strong Australian dollar. Exportersí ongoing problems with the high dollar is evident in the exports sub-index this month, which remained close to last monthís all-time low, at just 31.2 points." The mining-driven economy got slammed as soon as its emerging market export partners like China slowed down. And despite a pick up in China, Australia has yet to see the benefits. It's "a credit bubble built on a commodity market built on an even bigger Chinese credit bubble," wrote strategist Dylan Grice in a note last year. Here's a breakdown of the sub-indices.† As you can see, exports continue to be horrible: Australia Industry Group
ReutersHSBC manufacturing PMI for China came in at 50.4 in February. Analysts polled by Bloomberg are looking for the HSBC reading to decline to 50.6, down from 52.3 the previous month. Click here to refresh &gt; A breakdown showed that output expanded for a fourth consecutive month, but at a slower pace than in January. New export orders increased "but at a fractional rate".  China's official PMI number just came out and it showed that manufacturing slowed to 50.1. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.¬†  The Flash PMI declined to a four-month low of 50.4. Remember a reading below 50 indicates contraction. "The final February HSBC manufacturing PMI suggests a slower pace of expansion," said Hongbin Qu, chief economist at HSBC in a press release. "But China's recovery continues on improving domestic demand conditions and the labour market. The pace of ongoing recovery is mild, implying no need for the PBoC to tighten policy any time soon.‚Äù Here's a look at PMI since 2012: Markit Economics HSBC's Donna Kwok appeared on CNBC world to say that the average of Jan-Feb is up to 51.4, compared with 50.5 in the fourth quarter which shows manufacturing is in a relatively strong position. The HSBC PMI surveys 300 companies, as compared with the 5,000 surveyed for the official release. Some analysts have warned of the impact of the Chinese New Year on the data. But generally they believe the underlying trend in manufacturing has improved.
ReutersChina's official PMI number declined to 50.1 in February, from 50.4 the previous month. Analysts polled by Bloomberg were looking for PMI to inch higher to 50.5. Click here to refresh &gt; Analysts have been warning that investors should take January-February data with a pinch of salt because of the impact of the Chinese New Year holiday. "I wouldn't really read much into this report thanks to holiday. China's recovery will likely continue through mid-year then fade," Bloomberg BRIEF's Michael McDonough tweeted. Details from the report show that all but one of the sub-indices declined.  † Societe Generale's Wei Yao had expected the official reading to rise to 51. "The unexpected decline of 0.2 points in January was partly due to insufficient adjustments for seasonality, which should be reversed in February and March," she said in a note published before the official number was out. She thinks Chinese manufacturing "is still positive on balance, given positive signs from several other leading indicators". The government surveys 5000 companies for its survey. Remember a reading below 50 indicates contraction.† The HSBC PMI will be out at 8:45 p.m. ET.
tatadbb / FlickrSouth Korea's February trade numbers are out. The crucial exports number showed unexpected strength. Exports fell just 8.6 percent year-over-year to $42.3 billion.† Economists were expecting exports to fall 9.2 percent. Keep in mind that China's New Year holiday was particularly late this year, which is causing volatility in the year-over-year numbers. In a note to clients, the economists at Societe Generale note that a better comparison would be the January 2012 export number, which was at $41.2 billion. Having considered that, it's also worth noting that South Korea's won has jump 23 percent against Japan's yen in the past six months.† This has made Korean goods less competitive in Japan, a major trading partner. The South Korean trade data is often considered the global economic "canary in the coalmine" as it is the first major economic data point for the month of February.† Also, the export-driven economy is heavily exposed to mainland Asia, including China. Societe Generale The Domestic Economy During the period, South Korea's imports were a bit weaker-than-expected, which reflects weakness in the domestic economy.† This led to a larger-than-expected trade surplus. "Given the absence of obvious economic shocks to the Korean economy in recent weeks or months, our suspicion is that these indications of weakness will prove temporary, but it is certainly a development that merits close monitoring," said SocGen economist Klaus Baader. "Some softness in import values is to be expected following the strong appreciation of the Korean won since mid-2012, but the February import data appear to reflect underlying weakness."
REUTERS/Imelda MedinaElba Esther Gordillo, the head of Mexico's powerful, 1.5-million strong national teachersí union, was arrested earlier this week on charges related to corruption. Many see the arrest as an attempt by Mexico's new president, Enrique PeÒa Nieto, to put his foot down on a woman who had pretty much become a kingmaker in the country ó able to send 1.5 million votes to whomever she wished. Either way, allegations about Gordillo's luxurious lifestyle have been widespread over the past few days. It's something to behold. While she was born into poverty, Gordillo currently holds the title of ìpresident for lifeî of the teacher's union. She has been its leader for 24 years. Officially, her monthly salary is around $6,000, according to the Independent. However, in the past the Mexican press has asked how she could afford an outfit that included $1,200 shoes and a $5,500 purse. She appears to frequently get plastic surgery, and is also reported to own a $1.6 million home in La Jolla, a San Diego. Calif., suburb. Gordillo†was arrested on Tuesday as she got off her private jet, flying between San Diego and Mexico City. Gordillo and two allies were accused of being siphoning off $200 million of union money, a figure investigators claim is only 10 percent of the money missing. According to Mexican blog Animal Politico, that money was reportedly linked to $17,000 of plastic surgery,†$650,000 paid to an art gallery, and a $2.1 million shopping spree at the Neiman Marcus store in San Diego. Other questionable expenditures included bills for hangar rental and aircraft maintenance, according to the Miami Herald. Gordio's generosity to her staff was famous. In 2006, Gordillo was reported to have taken 125 of her employees and their children on a seven-day Pacific cruise. She was later reported to have given a fleet of Hummers to regional bosses in 2008. (They were later raffled for charity.) The Miami Herald reports that she had even been planning to take union leaders on an all-expenses paid cruise to the Caribbean from Miami late last year, but cancelled when she heard of education reforms. Gorio has fended off threats before, in her own idiosyncratic way. According to the Guardian she claims to have "held off an imminent attempt to depose her in the late 1990s with the help of a witchcraft ceremony up a Nigerian mountain in which she was clothed with the pelt of a white lion that had been skinned alive." It doesn't seem likely she'll go down without a fight ó† according to the BBC, Gorio wants her tombstone to read: "Here lies a warrior, and as a warrior she died."
flickr / Takato MaruiJapan just released consumer prices data for the month of January. CPI fell 0.3 percent year over year, more than economists' expectations of a 0.2 percent decline. Moreover, the pace of deflation accelerated from December, when prices 0.1 percent year over year. The Japanese government has been spurring a devaluation of the yen in recent months in a bid to end deflation, which has gripped the Japanese economy for a decade. While the pass-through from yen devaluation to consumer prices is not an immediate thing, trying to reflate prices from these lower levels does not help the government in its quest to achieve rising prices.
 REUTERS/China Daily Chinese manufacturing PMI for February is out at 8 p.m. ET. Analysts polled by Bloomberg are looking for PMI to rise to 50.5, up from 50.4 the previous month. HSBC PMI for February is out at 8:45 p.m. ET, and analysts polled by Bloomberg are looking for the index to decline to 50.6, from the previous reading of 52.3. The Flash PMI declined to a four-month low of 50.4. Bank of America's Ting Lu has previously explained why the official and flash PMI often diverge. He says this is because the HSBC index focuses more on small and medium enterprises. Chinese export manufacturers tend to be smaller scale, so, "the HSBC PMI sample could also have more exposure to exports. Click here for Markit's explanation on the difference between the two PMIs. Ting expects the official number to rise to 50.5 but warns against paying too much attention to PMI readings in January or February because of the impact of the Chinese New Year holiday. In a note last month, he explained just how the Chinese New Year holiday impacts the two reports making them both unreliable: Neither the NBS nor the HSBC could do a good job in creating PMI during the Chinese New Year holiday. First, there could be a large amount of missing values for already small sample sizes (HSBC at around 500, NBS at 3000) due to the holiday. This is especially true for the HSBC February flash PMI this year as the holiday was from 9 to 15 Feb and the private sectorís holiday could last until end-Feb. Second, PMI data are heavily seasonally adjusted, but the season adjustment is quite inaccurate due to the different timing of CNY holidays and short history (since year 2005). Societe Generale's Wei Yao expects the official reading to rise to 51. "The unexpected decline of 0.2 points in January was partly due to insufficient adjustments for seasonality, which should be reversed in February and March." She thinks Chinese manufacturing "is still positive on balance, given positive signs from several other leading indicators". Here's a look at the trajectory of both the official and HSBC flash PMI since 2005: Societe Generale
Here's some bad news for some McDonald's fans. The fast food titan is cutting Chicken Selects and the apple walnut salad from its menu. The Angus Third Pounder may also be killed off, according to a report from the Chicago Tribune. A company spokesperson said that McDonald's is "reviewing options" at the moment. McDonald's is doing it to make room for new products that are in the pipeline, like the McWrap ó a larger version of its snack wraps. The news first became public when a McDonald's franchisee posted about it on Facebook and Twitter. The Facebook page has since been taken down, but not before the Kentucky New Era caught a peek.
JPMorgan Chase's CEO Jamie Dimon is on Fox Business talking about his bank and the economy with Melissa Francis. We couldn't help but notice his wardrobe selection for tonight. ¬†The CEO is rocking some blue jeans (we're pretty sure they're Wranglers) and a really, really big belt buckle.¬† The rest of the JPMorgan crew on set is matching him. That's¬†Ryan McInerney, the CEO of consumer banking at JPMorgan, sitting next to him. Check it out:¬† Fox Business screenshot Remember the time when JPMorgan execs wore track jackets for the Facebook IPO? SEE ALSO: JAMIE DIMON TELLS ANALYST: Here's Why I'm Richer Than You &gt;
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Jeremy Siegel Says It's Time To Move Away From Traditional Asset Allocation (Advisor Perspectives) Jeremy Siegel famously said last year that he sees the Dow going to 15,000 in 2013. He also said there was a chance it could rise to 17,000. But in a new interview with Knowledge@Wharton he says the latter "might be a stretch" unless many risks go away, and people still see value in the markets. He also said investors should move away from traditional asset allocation. "People say, "Jeremy, do you hold any bonds?" And I say, "The only bonds I've held over the years and years and years is junk bonds." And even they've become a little expensive, but you know, I just roll over and reinvest my interest there. That's the only bond part of my portfolio. I always have some cash, just for liquidity purposes. But as for an investment purpose, outside of a little chunk that rolls over in junk bonds, no extra bonds. I'm very enthusiastic about stocks. I'm not enthusiastic about gold because I think gold is priced for either hyperinflation or the end of the world. Neither of those two eventualities, in my opinion, is going to happen. I think commodities are expensive. Oil is expensive. "So really, stocks, properties -- now, you know, there are some good values in real estates. REITs are very high, but they still should be part of your portfolio. In some investment properties, if people want to go into the liquid sides, it's fine. And of course if anyone is waiting to buy that home and lock in that mortgage rate, now is the time, and definitely that would be an advisable purchase to make. But as far as the liquid part of your portfolio, the vast majority should be in stocks now." An Upset For The SEC As Court Says It Can't Work Around Statute Of Limitations (The New York Times) The Supreme Court has ruled against the SEC's argument in¬† Gabelli v. SEC, that the statute on limitations for pursuing civil penalties like frauds, should begin when they are 'discovered' and not when they take place, according to The New York Times. In this instance, the SEC had filed fraud charges against mutual fund manager Marc Gabelli and his colleague Bruce Alpert in 2008. The SEC had wanted the court to use the "discovery rule" which is a workaround the "statute of limitations". The Supreme Court ruled that victims of fraud can have a longer time to file claims but ‚Äúthe S.E.C. as enforcer is a far cry from the defrauded victim the discovery rule evolved to protect.‚Äù The Biggest Growth Opportunity In The History Of Capitalism (McKinsey &amp; Company) By 2025, consumers in the emerging markets will be spending $30 trillion annually.¬† This is according to a new report from McKinsey &amp; Company. They have called this "the biggest growth opportunity in the history of capitalism".  McKinsey & Company The S&amp;P 500 Is On Track To Complete A Pattern That Has Ended In Annual Gains Every Time (CNBC) The S&amp;P500 is set to finish February in positive territory. In a note, Sam Stovall of S&amp;P Capital IQ said the S&amp;P 500 has had gains in both January and February 26 times since 1945. In each of those years the index has ended with gains. "In all 26 instances, Stovall says the "500" recorded a positive calendar year total return, averaging an advance‚Äîincluding dividends‚Äîof 24 percent and posting full-year results that were in the single digits just twice: 1987 and 2011. "The reason for this full-year early warning signal? "[I]nvestors‚Äîlike an octogenarian willing to skip a nap‚Äîbelieve there may be too much to miss should they take their traditional seasonal siesta." Walter Zimmerman Says The Stock Market Is Peaking And There Will Be A Major Financial Crisis (United-ICAP) The stock market has been hovering near all-time highs but many experts have warned that the market is carving a top and have warned of investor complacency. Walter Zimmerman, a senior technical analyst at United-ICAP says every technical indicator suggests the stock market is peaking. "Most of the rally in the stock market since 2009 can be chalked up to the Federal Reserve‚Äôs attempt to create a ‚Äòwealth effect‚Äô through higher stock market prices. This only exacerbates the downside risk. Why? The stock market no is longer a lead indicator for the economy. It is instead reflecting¬† Fed manipulation. Pushing the stock market higher while the real economy languishes has resulted in another bubble. "The next leg down will not be a partial correction of the advance since the 2009 lows. It will be another major financial crisis. The worst is yet to come."
Nanex, Chicago-based market research firm, predicted that the market would go nuts at the close today about an hour and half before it happened. Then, sure enough, around 4:00 e-mini contracts (those are S&amp;P 500 futures) absolutely exploded. Business Insider reached out to Nanex CEO Eric Hunsader to find out why he made that call. His explanation was actually pretty simple: He said it's the end of the month, indexes are changing out components, and everyone is piling into the market at the last second to get the most precise price "The last few seconds are always hot," said Hunsader. "It's even worse at the end of the quarter. A lot of things are dependent on that end of the month price... and the closer you trade to the end (the closing bell), the closer you get to that price. There isn't necessarily a price you want, you just want to be at that right price." Because of high speed trading technology, traders can get incredibly precise about when they execute their trades. That means normal end of the month sprint is getting cut down to smaller and smaller fractions of a second. "It took almost a full second to get all that data through the networks so people could see it," Hunsader continued. "For speed traders that last second of the day is really valuable." At the of the quarter, Nanex saw about 50,000 trades rush in for the last possible second (or less) of trading. This time it was 70,000. "This is normal end of month nuttiness. Lots of times this is happening after the close. They (the contracts) don't show up on the prints until after 4:00 p.m.... It's almost like hiding it," he added. So there you go. Since trades are being executed in smaller and smaller fractions of time, the pile-ons are getting more and more dramatic. Sounds like a new kind of normal problem. In the chart below, you can see the dramatic deepening in the e-minis' depth of book (number of positions in the trade) at the close. Nanex
Frenkieb / FlickrThe stock market is within points of hitting an all-time high. However, there is no shortage experts who are waving red flags.¬† Earnings expectations have been falling, profit margins appear to be unsustainably high, and sentiment is so high that it seems investors are being complacent about the risks. "Every reliable technical tool is warning of major peaking action," said Walter Zimmerman, the senior technical analyst at United-ICAP. "This includes sentiment, momentum, classical chart patterns, and Elliott wave analysis. "Most of the rally in the stock market since 2009 can be chalked up to the Federal Reserve‚Äôs attempt to create a ‚Äòwealth effect‚Äô through higher stock market prices. This only exacerbates the downside risk. Why? The stock market no is longer a lead indicator for the economy. It is instead reflecting¬† Fed manipulation. Pushing the stock market higher while the real economy languishes has resulted in another bubble. "The next leg down will not be a partial correction of the advance since the 2009 lows. It will be another major financial crisis. The worst is yet to come." Zimmerman sent us a brief presentation laying out his thesis.
Intuitive Surgical, the leading innovator of robots that can do surgery, saw its stock tumble during the last few seconds of the U.S. trading session. Bloomberg reports that U.S. regulators are probing the company over the safety of its products. "The regulators have asked surgeons at key hospitals to list any complications they may have seen with Intuitive's robots," reports Bloomberg. The stock closed down 11 percent for the day.
Paul-W / FlickrMarkets were up for most of the day.† Midday, the Dow was up as much as 75 point.† Stocks were about to close at a new highs. But the rally disappeared. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,054, -20.8 pts, -0.1 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,514, -1.3 pts, -0.0 percentNASDAQ: 3,160, -2.0 pts, -0.0 percent And now the top stories:
via AEIOver the next decade ó if the current-law sequester cuts and spending caps hold ó US defense spending will fall to EU-like levels. That is certainly too low if the US is to remain a global military superpower as opposed to becoming a ìregional hegemonî†in the words of my friends at the Heritage Foundation.†(The Obama White House might well prefer this trajectory but would rather the ìpeace dividendî be used to finance government rather than lower budget deficits.) OK, we donít want that. But that will be then. This is now. And given budget realities, the sequester should immediately force Obamaís Pentagon,†argues AEIís†Mackenzie Eaglen, ìto confront the primary drivers of imbalanced defense spending, including military and civilian bureaucratic overhead, excess infrastructure, and runaway compensation costs.î I would also add in the $70 billion in Pentagon nondefense-related spending†identified by Senator Tom Coburn. Eaglen offers several recommendations: 1. †When trying to slash excess overhead and infrastructure, Pentagon leaders should aim to shrink the bureaucracy while preserving core military capabilities. To do this, they need to begin collecting better information internally. The Pentagon does not currently assess the most affordable mix of military, civilian and contractors in its employment. 2. The department must develop tools to effectively match supply and demand for internal labor in order to understand which jobs may be eliminated and which competencies need additional staffing. Without these simple tools at its disposal, it is not surprising the Pentagon has thus far been unable to size the workforce correctly. 3. Efforts to close additional bases have been unsuccessful. One proposal of note by a senior Air Force official, for example, is for the Pentagon to select installations for closure based on the communityís interest in conversion and their ability to thrive in commercial redevelopment. In other words, the Pentagon needs to bring in a) some business rationality and b) Big Data.
Keens Steakhouse, a 120 year-old restaurant well-loved for its no frills feel, was just given the James Beard 'Classics' Award. It's an accolade given to restaurants that elevate and uphold the American culinary tradition. This is a huge deal. The James Beard Foundation was named for the cookbook author and teacher (James Beard) and seeks to educate and inspire Americans interested in our country's culinary tradition. Basically, if you like to eat, you should know what the foundation is buzzing about. Everyone in the food world does, anyway. Five restaurants win the Classics Award every year. This year, along with Keens, the winners are Kramarczuk's in Minneapolis, Frank Fat's in Sacarmento, Prince's Hot Chicken Shack in Nashville and C.F. Folks in Washington D.C.. Here's what James Beard said about the Classics Award and Keens in their press release (h/t eater): New York, NY (February 28, 2013) ‚Äì Today the James Beard Foundation announced the five recipients of its 2013 America's Classics Award, presented by The Coca-Cola Company. The America's Classics Award is given to restaurants that have timeless appeal and are beloved for quality food that reflects the character of their community. This year's honorees will be celebrated at the annual James Beard Foundation Awards, the nation's most prestigious recognition program honoring professionals in the food and beverage industry, in a ceremony taking place on Monday, May 6, 2013, at Lincoln Center's Avery Fisher Hall in New York City. "The America's Classics Awards are always a highlight of the ceremony," said Susan Ungaro, president of the James Beard Foundation. "Our honorees come from all walks of life. We have the privilege of hearing their unique stories, which celebrate the great variety and authentic flavors of America's culinary scene. These local hangouts, neighborhood diners, and family restaurants truly bring communities together, a concept James Beard would have loved."... New York City specializes in new restaurants, not old ones, and local interest in them is generally measured in months instead of years. So it's nothing short of astonishing that a 120-something-year-old restaurant has managed to stay both relevant and wildly popular in the middle of Manhattan. Albert Keen, a theater producer, opened the restaurant in 1885, when the Herald Square Theatre District thrived. Actors came in for a drink between acts. Today, the walls are decorated with over 50,000 clay pipes, from celebrated customers like Teddy Roosevelt and Albert Einstein, souvenirs from a era when smoke clouded many restaurants. George Schwarz, the current owner, took over in the late 1970s, investing much money and sweat equity in reviving the restaurant. What Keens has always done well is to age and grill meat. They were one of the first restaurants to dry-age beef. It's a terrific place for a prime T-bone steak, well-charred on the outside and juicy within, served with a tangy-sweet house steak sauce. But their most famous cut of meat is not beef: it's the 26-ounce mutton chop. In one of their few nods to modernization, the mutton is now lamb, but it's still accompanied by homemade mint jelly. The menu is stocked with classics like shrimp cocktail, iceberg wedge with chunky blue cheese, and extra-thick slices of smoked bacon, served unadorned on a plate. And the bar at Keens is one of the more democratic places in the city. Yes, it is a destination for Wall Streeters, artists, and fashion editors, but it also draws shoppers from nearby Macy's. The bar room is especially welcoming in the winter, when the fireplace roars and regulars nibble complimentary chicken wings or drink their way through the 275-plus selection of single-malt scotches.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The former JPMorgan Chase &amp; Cotrader known as the "London Whale" was not responsible for Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc's bankruptcy and should not be dragged into an $8.6 billion lawsuit accusing the largest U.S. bank of causing it, JPMorgan said. In a Wednesday filing in Manhattan bankruptcy court, JPMorgan said Lehman knew from documents it produced itself that the trader, Bruno Iksil, had nothing to do with allegedly mismarked derivative trades about which Lehman wanted to take his deposition. JPMorgan also said Lehman and its unsecured creditors committee, which also seeks Iksil's testimony, had pointed to nothing that shows the bank's Chief Investment Office had any role in the collateral requests at the center of Lehman's 3-year-old lawsuit. Moreover, getting Iksil involved wastes time and money, JPMorgan said, particularly in light of statements by former U.S. Treasury Secretaries Timothy Geithner and Henry Paulson that the collateral requests did not cause Lehman to fail. "It is readily apparent that the only real reason for plaintiffs interest in taking Mr. Iksil's deposition is that he has been in the news," JPMorgan said. Lehman spokeswoman Kimberly Macleod said the company's lawyers would review the filing. Iksil gained notoriety after his activities were linked to $6.2 billion of trading losses at JPMorgan's Chief Investment Office. The French national had worked in London for the New York-based bank. JPMorgan was Lehman's main clearing bank, handling third-party dealings. Lehman accuses JPMorgan of hastening the bankruptcy by using what it learned in that capacity to extract $8.6 billion of collateral in the four business days prior to the September 15, 2008, Chapter 11 filing. Citing Iksil's "practice of intentional mismarking," Lehman said it wanted to review trades that led to a large, "unjustified" collateral call on September 9, 2008. Lehman also said it wanted to review how the Chief Investment Office managed JPMorgan's exposure to what was once Wall Street's fourth-largest investment bank. Lehman said Iksil's lawyers have indicated he will not cooperate without an official request, prompting it to ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck for permission to start the process. Last April, Peck narrowed but refused to dismiss Lehman's lawsuit, saying the company could pursue claims that JPMorgan had acted in a "commercially unreasonable" manner. Lehman emerged from Chapter 11 last March. It has said it hopes to repay creditors about $65 billion. That process is expected to take several years. The JPMorgan case is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc et al v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York, No. 10-ap-03266. The main bankruptcy case is In re: Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc in the same court, No. 08-13555. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Billionaire real estate mogul Steven Roth's real estate investment trust Vornado Realty is also a huge stakeholder. Vornado Realty owned 23,400,000 shares, or a 10.67% stake as of October 8, 2012, according to 13D data compiled by Bloomberg.¬† Roth, 70, who was named to JCPenney's board of directors¬†at the same time as Ackman,¬†was called out by an analyst during his company's fourth quarter earnings call yesterday morning over his JCP investment. ¬† In short, the analyst asked him if being on JCP's board compromised his independence to potentially exit that investment if it was necessary to do so. ¬†He responded with "Yes." Remember, this was before the retailer released its abysmal quarterly earnings yesterday. Yesterday JCPenney released disastrous quarterly earnings results with same store sales plunging 32 percent in the fourth quarter. The stock was last trading down more than 15% today.¬† Anyway, here's an excerpt of the transcript from the Vornado call posted by Seeking Alpha:¬† Michael Knott¬†- Green Street Advisors, Inc., Research Division Okay. And then last question would be for you, Steve. I know you're committed to the J.C. Penney investment. But just a question, does being on the Board there somewhat compromise your independence, so to speak, to potentially exit that investment if that was deemed to be the best thing to do? Steven Roth¬†- Chairman and Chairman of Executive Committee Yes. Michael Knott¬†- Green Street Advisors, Inc., Research Division Yes, it does compromise? Steven Roth¬†- Chairman and Chairman of Executive Committee Yes. The answer to your question, Michael, is yes. Michael Knott¬†- Green Street Advisors, Inc., Research Division Is it the best thing for Vornado, for you to be on the Board there? Steven Roth¬†- Chairman and Chairman of Executive Committee I'm not -- I can't comment on that. What's more is Roth also acknowledged on the earnings conference call that JCPenney is struggling.¬† Here's the excerpt via Seeking Alpha:¬† ¬†"...J.C. Penney is a newer investment which is struggling right now. J.C. Penney has its earnings call this afternoon, I think after the market closes. I'm a Director of J.C. Penney so I really can't talk very much about it, but J.C. Penney is an investment which is in progress now and I -- really, it's inappropriate for me to talk about what our holding period might be or what our future plans in terms of sale or not sale and the timing. It's just not appropriate in that particular investment..." Vornado Realty was last trading down more than 2.6%.¬†
flickr / Ias - initiallyIn the wake of JC Penney's horrific earnings announcement, S&amp;P has downgraded the department store chain's credit rating to CCC+ from B-. S&amp;P's outlook is negative. All of this means that JC Penney could find it more difficult to raise or refinance its debt. Yesterday after the closing bell, the company reported a quarterly net loss, which was much wider than what most analysts had expected. † S&P
Getty ImagesIndia revealed its budget for FY13 - 14 and it largely disappointed foreign investors and is expected to not do much to revive flagging economic growth. But the budget is trying to tackle gender issues. The finance minister P Chidambaram's budget includes a plan to set up the country's first public sector Women's Bank with Rs. 10 billion in capital (approx $183 million). "This Women‚Äôs Bank will lend funds to women, women run businesses, women SHGs [self help groups] and will employ predominantly women and be functional from October 2013 ." India has the second largest workforce in the world that totals 478 million, but women only account for 24 percent of it,¬†according to a report from the Center For Strategic &amp; International Studies.¬† It also ranks 113th of 135 countries in the World Economic Forum's Gender Gap Index. The report also cites Lakshmi Puri of UN Women who said in 2011 that "India's growth rate could jump by 4.2 percent if women were given more opportunities". With India's economic growth at 10-year low this might not be the worst idea, but it depends on how effectively it is managed. ¬†
en.wikipedia.orgIf you want to believe that wealth doesn't make you happier, there's plenty of data to back you up. But mounting research shows that there are some elements of happiness that do increase as wealth increases. Take for example, relationships and work ‚Äì two fundamental components of life satisfaction and happiness. A survey from Spectrem Group found that individuals worth $5 million or more are far more satisfied with their jobs, relationships and work than those worth $100,000 or less. (Read more: Wealth 'Poisons' Kids, Says Aussie Tycoon) The study found that 53 percent of those worth $5 million or more were "very satisfied" with their job or previous job. That compares with only 21 percent for those worth $100,000 or less. The multi-millionaires are also twice as satisfied with their social life, presumably since the wealthy have no shortage of friends and invitations. Nearly three quarters of the penta-millionaires are very satisfied with their marriage or "committed relationship" ‚Äì far more than the 45 percent reported for the merely affluent. Millionaires are also significantly more likely to report higher levels of satisfaction regarding their relationships with their children (59 percent vs. 52 percent). (Read more: Why the Rich Hate Deficits ‚Äì And Why They May Be Right) The findings on relationships and kids are perhaps the most surprising, since we tend to think of large wealth leaving behind a trail of broken marriages, alienated offspring and artificial friendships. The survey shows that, in fact, solid family relationships may not only accompany large wealth ‚Äì they may in fact be one of the causes.
Getty/Andrew H. WalkerAttention New Yorkers, it's time to whip out your spring social calendar as gala season is fast approaching. Soon, there will be more fÍtes than you can shake a Chanel at. So which galas should you attend? We've done the work for you, profiling the top ten stomping grounds of the cityís most well-heeled philanthropists. Whether youíre fighting for the arts, a cure for cancer, a greener New York, or the life of a child, you can raise money for the causes you love and have a fabulous time doing so!
sandi_sandra via statigr.amDubious record alert: American gasoline prices just set an all-time high for February, according to AAA. The average price of gas in February was $3.65 per gallon, 10 cents higher than the previous record for the month set just last year. Today‚Äôs national average of $3.782 per gallon is five cents higher than the average a year ago. We've also set a record for fastest price increase. We started out the year at $3.29 per gallon, and have climbed to a national average of $3.78 per gallon. The previous record through the end of February was a rise of 46 cents per gallon in 2012. We recently explained why all this is happening ‚Äî it's a combination of refinery outages and international demand. We also told you why all of America's new crude production won't lower gas prices ‚Äî there's not enough domestic infrastructure to transport it, and there's too much international competition for product. ¬† The lone silver lining is that AAA believes the record ramp-up could mean prices peak lower than they otherwise would.
Even though the U.S. economy is roughly twice the size of the Chinese economy, Americans seem to believe that China is more powerful than the U.S. This is according to a recent survey from Gallup. Twelve years ago, only 10 percent of Americans surveyed by Gallup believed China to be the world's leading economic power.¬† This compares to the 53 percent who picked China this year. Only 32 percent of Americans believing that their home country has the most powerful economy. Japan came in third, with 8 percent of the respondents. The remaining 2 percent chose the European Union, India, or Russia. GallupResults based on Gallup's annual World Affairs poll, conducted Feb. 7-10.  The idea that China is the world's most powerful economy is most popular among younger Americans. Three out of five Americans below the age of 50 believed China to be the most powerful economy. In contrast, only one in five American aged 65 or older believed the same. More Republicans and Independents view China as a more powerful economy than do Democrats.¬† Here's a breakdown. Gallup So what's the cause of these distorted views of reality?¬† Gallup explains: That may be due partly to the health of the U.S. economy at the time of the survey, with the 2000 poll conducted during robust economic times and later updates asked during a struggling economy. The shift may also reflect an acknowledgment of China's explosive economic growth in recent years, even though the United States still ranks as the No. 1 economy in terms of gross domestic product (GDP). However, China is poised to overtake the U.S. as the largest economy in the next several years. Perhaps as the economy improves, this misperception will turn.
APAs the Republican Party continues its soul-searching about how to become more popular again, it might consider the results of a new Pew Survey. According to Pew: At a time when the Republican Partyís image is at a historic low, 62% of the public says the GOP is out of touch with the American people, 56% think it is not open to change and 52% say the party is too extreme. Pew asked about the Democratic Party, too, while they were at it. The views here were not universally good, but they were better. Opinions about the Democratic Party are mixed, but the party is viewed more positively than the GOP in every dimension tested except one. Somewhat more say the Republican Party than the Democratic Party has strong principles (63% vs. 57%). So Americans give the Republicans credit for having "strong principles." Alas, those principles are not principles that most Americans agree with. Here are the results: Pew Research Read the survey here &gt;
Icahn and Herbalife have agreed to increase the size of its board of directors from nine to eleven members. Herbalife will also be adding two Icahn nominees to the board, according to the company's release. He said in an interview with Bloomberg TV that his two top people are at Herbalife.¬† Icahn also has the right to boost his Herbalife stake up to 25% of outstanding common stock, according to the agreement.¬† The stock was halted before the news was announced. It was trading up about 3% before the release came out. Since trading has resumed it's up about 7%. Icahn then phoned into Bloomberg TV to talk about the news.¬† "We're excited about it. This is not one where we don't like management. We do like management," Icahn said in an interview on Bloomberg TV with Trish Regan. He added that he "frankly doesn't understand" Ackman's criticism of the company.¬† "We've done a hell of a lot of work on this. We're excited about this," he said.¬† Icahn also told Bloomberg TV that he would like to buy more stock in Herbalife. Again, he said he doesn't understand Ackman's short case.¬† "I don't comprehend...why you have to put out a 300 page report... I don't understand what he did and why he's trashing it," Icahn said, adding that he likes to keep his shorts quiet and gets mad if anyone talks about it. ¬† "I think that Ackman has given us an opportunity to buy a company cheaply, at a discounted price," he added. ¬† Regan asked Icahn if Ackman made a "big mistake". "Well, if you look at his record lately, he has made a few very big mistakes. I am not going to say just this one. I am not here to question Ackman. I do not want to get pulled into that again‚Ä¶I look at it as a great opportunity. Ironically, I thank him for giving it to me. Does not mean I like him," Icahn told Bloomberg TV. Here's the full release (via Street Insider): Herbalife (NYSE:¬†HLF) today announced that it has reached an agreement with Carl C.¬†Icahn, Icahn Enterprises Holdings L.P. and certain related entities (collectively the ‚ÄúIcahn Parties‚Äù), which beneficially own, in the aggregate 14,015,151 shares of Herbalife common stock, representing approximately 13.6% of the Company‚Äôs outstanding shares. As part of the agreement, Herbalife will increase the size of its Board of Directors from nine to eleven members immediately before the 2013 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (‚Äúthe Annual Meeting‚Äù). Herbalife‚Äôs Board of Directors will nominate two individuals to the Company‚Äôs Board of Directors, designated by the Icahn Parties and approved by the Company‚Äôs Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.Under the terms of the agreement, the Icahn Parties have agreed to, among other things, abide by certain standstill provisions and vote their shares in support of all of the Board‚Äôs director nominees. The Icahn Parties have the right to increase the size of their ownership position in Herbalife up to 25% of the outstanding common stock. A copy of the agreement with further detail will be attached to a Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed by Herbalife with the Securities and Exchange Commission.‚ÄúWe are pleased to have reached this agreement and look forward to working with the Icahn representatives as members of our Board of Directors,‚Äù said Michael O. Johnson, chairman and chief executive officer of Herbalife. ‚ÄúWe appreciate the Icahn Parties‚Äô shared views on the inherent value of Herbalife‚Äôs operations, products and future prospects.‚Äù‚ÄúOver its long history, Herbalife has proven its ability to increase revenues and returns, and we will work with the Company to build on its results,‚Äù said Mr. Icahn. ‚ÄúWe conducted considerable research on Herbalife and its business before making our investment in the Company, and have great respect for its Board and management team, and believe in the Company's great potential. We expect our shareholder representatives to provide positive input into Board decisions affecting the future of the Company.‚Äù The nutritional supplement seller has become one of the most controversial stock lately. Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management, is shorting more than 20 million shares of the multi-level marketing firm. ¬†He has a price target of zero and believes the company is a "pyramid scheme". Not everyone agrees with Ackman's short thesis, especially his long-time rival billionaire investor Carl Icahn. Icahn recently disclosed a 12.98% in Herbalife.¬† Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC, disclosed an 8.24% long stake back in January. ¬† More to come...
16x9onglobalA new study from the University of Texas and the Sloan foundation suggests Texas' Barnett shale oil and gas play has barely reached a third of its potential. However, it also concedes that the area's production rate has peaked.¬† The study's finding's were first reported by the Wall Street Journal's Russell Gold.¬† "We are looking at multi, multi decades of growth," Scott Tinker, director of the Bureau of Economic Geology at the university and a leader of the study, told Gold. The study looked at every one of the 16,000 wells in the Barnett, and found that the area is ultimately capable of producing ¬†44 trillion cubic feet of oil and gas,¬†three-times more than it currently puts out, assuming a break-even price of $4. That's actually about 25 cents above the current Henry Hub price. The study argues natural gas prices are still low enough to produce a gently declining production curve in the Barnett, located in north-central Texas.¬†Here's the chart: University of Texas Sloan said it found no conflict of interest among the studies co-authors despite one having ties to BP. "The consensus from those meetings was that the ¬†quality of the research was excellent and that there was no indication that it was influenced by conflicts of interest," the foundation said in a statement.
Federally subsidized student loans will see¬†a number of fee increases and rate hikes¬†when the sequestration budget cuts go into effect tonight, making it even more difficult for low-income families to pay for college.¬† According to calculations from the Student Aid Alliance, the impact on students with "the most need" will be $876.00 in extra fees. These won't impact people who already have the loans, but take effect moving forward: Student Aid Alliance The rate hikes are compounded with recent budget cuts to a number of other student loan programs. The Budget Control Act passed in 2011 slashed¬†$35 billion in student aid programs,¬†including the summer Summer Pell Grant,¬†¬†LEAP grants, subsidized interest payments for graduate and professional students and the "grace period" which gives graduates six months before they accumulate interest on their loans.¬†
statigr.am/careneroAccording to a new report from McKinsey &amp; Company, the miracle growth story of the emerging markets is far from over. By 2025, consumers in emerging markets will spend $30 trillion annually, which will be "the biggest growth opportunity in the history of capitalism," according to the report. For centuries, the percentage of people in the world with discretionary income (consumers) was dramatically smaller than the percentage of people who had just about enough for necessities or less. But since the industrial revolution, the percentage of consumers has been rising.† And some of the biggest growth will happen between now and 2025 thanks to the emerging markets. This chart that shows how much the consumer class will grow in developed and emerging markets: McKinsey & Company
Google FinanceThe remarkable stock market bull run continues. Moments ago, they spiked for no obvious reason.¬† And now they're within reach of all-time highs. The Dow closed at an all-time high of 14,164 on October 9, 2007.¬† It hit an intra-day high of 14,198 on October 11, 2007. The S&amp;P 500 isn't too far from its all-time closing high of 1,565, which it also hit on October 9, 2007. This comes as major U.S. budget cuts loom and political uncertainty returns to Europe.
Walter Loeb, a retail consultant and former senior retail analyst at†Morgan Stanley,†has written a devastating column at Forbes about JCPenney, which reported†abysmal Q4 numbers yesterday. "I think we have been had," wrote Loeb. "This is all a farce." "In all my years, I have†never†seen a loss of momentum of these proportions," he added. "It is clear to me JCPenney lost its core customer during the transformation." And Loeb, 87, has been in the game a very long time. He covered retail at Morgan Stanley from†1974 to 1990 and was a director at the National Retail Federation, Wet Seal, and Gymboree, among other companies. "In a videocast, JCPenneyís visionary CEO Ron Johnson promised there is a great day coming 'tomorrow,'" wrote Loeb. "But like the song says that 'tomorrow' never comes." Now, Loeb is convinced that JCPenney's recovery will be "much harder" than Johnson and his senior management team claim. Why? Shrinking inventory provides less room for mistakes JCPenney's core customer has run for the hills Associate cuts have hurt their entire store and the environment is deteriorating So, what does Loeb think about next quarter? It'll likely be the worst quarter of 2013 and sales haven't bottomed yet, he wrote.
New York FedUS student loan debt has soared to $966 billion, nearly tripling from 2004 to 2012, according to new data from the New York Federal Reserve. The Fed offers five reasons to explain this trend: Meanwhile, 17 percent of borrowers are now late on their debt payments.† This is up from 10 percent in 2004. What follows is the Fed's presentation showing the incredible rise of student debt and how it is quickly becoming a big problem.
Yesterday, Argentina's lawyers made closing arguments in what some are calling the 'the debt trial of the century.' Today, the country's bonds are committing suicide. This case has been going on for years. Billionaire hedge fund manager Paul Singer invested in Argentine sovereign debt on the cheap in the 1990s, and now he wants to get paid 100 cents on the dollar for his investment. The problem is, a ton of other people that invested at that time took two rounds of haircuts on their debt. They're only getting paid 30 cents on the dollar, and Argentina thinks Singer should do the same. Politicians across the country calling him (and his fellow holdouts) "vulture capitalists." Vulture or no, Singer won't quit. He even got a Ghanaian Court to impound an Argentine naval vessel last year. Here in NYC, Judge Thomas Griesa ordered Argentina to pay up, arguing that Argentina could not pay the investors that restructured without paying holdouts as well, but that order went to a Court of appeals. The two lead lawyers on the case (who also faced off for Bush v. Gore) made their closing arguments to the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals yesterday. That's where Argentina's lawyer uttered the words that have sent the country's bonds into a dramatic tailspin. From Bloomberg: Jonathan Blackman, the attorney for the South American nation, said yesterday that Argentina would default on its restructured debt if itís forced by a three-judge appeals panel in New York to pay holders of the defaulted debt. ìSo the answer is you will not obey any order but the one you propose?î U.S. Circuit Judge Reena Raggi asked Blackman during more than two hours of arguments. ìWe would not voluntarily obey such an order,î Blackman said. Hernan Lorenzino, Argentinaís minister of economy, and Vice President Amado Boudou sat at the counsel table as the lawyer addressed the panel. Blackman claimed that a lower-court order obliging Argentina to pay the defaulted bonds whenever it makes payments on restructured debt violates its sovereignty, threatens to trigger a new financial crisis and would quadruple the number of Argentine bond cases in New York federal court, rather than resolving them. ìIf thatís the confrontation the court seeks with the injunctions, that is the courtís decision,î Blackman said. ìWeíre representing a government and governments will not be told to do things that fundamentally violate their principles.î Essentially, no matter what the Judge orders, Argentina says it will not pay.It's arguable whether or not paying holdouts would trigger a new financial crisis in Argentina, even though central bank reserves are at their lowest level. What is certain is that this taking a nasty toll on the bond market, and if the government is depending on investors to finance itself, the Court's ruling may not even matter. Disaster may strike regardless of who wins this case.
prpix.com.au via Getty ImagesThe Bombay Stock Exchange fell 1.5 percent and the Indian rupee weakened against the dollar, as investors were disappointed by the details of India's new budget for FY13-14.  In its efforts to stimulate growth, the government has been trying to attract foreign investors and strengthen its capital markets. However, the measures included in the plan were widely regarded as falling far short of accomplishing these goals, according to Reuters.† Here are some of the measures rolled out in the FY13-14 budget. Certain tax amendments in the budget didn't clarify which investment returns would be taxed. Moreover, the tax residency certificate amendment that is targeted at 2016 "sparked fears tax authorities would have wider discretion to go after foreign investors," according to Reuters. The importance of foreign investment Growth as we've already reported is at a 10-year low. And the Indian government thinks investment (both foreign and domestic) is "the key to restart the growth engine". Remember, this time last year Jefferies' analysts†Nilesh Jasani and Piyush Nahar had said that India's economic slowdown was being driven by a collapse in the investment cycle that is "far from being played out." Moreover, India's current account deficit, which represents the country's balance of payments, widened to a record $28 billion the quarter ending December 12. India needs to attract foreign investments to lower this as well. This is because a wide current account deficit makes the Indian economy vulnerable to a rout in global financial markets and could hit the Indian rupee. Morgan Stanley † Other measures The budget, which needs to be approved by parliament, also raised taxes on the extremely wealthy as part of its plan to lower the federal deficit. It proposed a surcharge of 10 percent on those whose taxable income exceeds Rs 10 million (approve $180K) to help lower the federal deficit. But if implemented this is also in place for one year. Jahangir Aziz, chief India economist for JP Morgan told the Financial Times that the budget lacked a focused plan to revive growth: "Itís like a shotgun that fires pellets across the board. There is no target you are actually choosing. There is no concerted vision where he wants growth to come from, or where he wants to take this economy, not today, not tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow."
The forced spending cuts known as the sequester are set to at least start kicking in on Friday. Soon, the attention will turn to the next potential crisis.¬† Funding for the federal government expires on March 27, and this deadline could be even more severe given the immediate consequences. Congress has to find a way to avoid a government shutdown and cancel another automatic round of cuts to the military. Below, we break down the stakes of the next potential budget fight: Produced by Daniel Goodman
Banks have increased salaries across Europe by 37% in the past four years in response to a crackdown on bonuses and pressure from regulators to claw back some rewards if bets go wrong later on. Banks are very good at getting round the letter of the law and bankers are very competitive. Bank bosses say they are held to ransom by star traders who threaten to walk off to a rival if they believe they are not compensated adequately. However, bank executives should dig their heels in and resist calls to jack up wages if bonuses are restricted. Few banks are hiring at the moment since all are facing a squeeze on profits. Star bankers probably have few options for poaching by rivals and the threat to leave could be an empty one. Investment banks generally pay fairly low salaries to keep their fixed costs down. In a good year, they can pile on the rewards in the annual bonus round. In a bad year, they can cut back on bonuses rather than sack a load of trained staff. That's the theory. What has tended to happen is that bankers continue to get paid large bonuses even if it has been a loss-making year for the bank as a whole. Look at RBS: it has just announced a ¬£5bn loss along with a ¬£287m bonus payout for the investment bank. Stephen Hester, the CEO, said bonuses were a lot lower than in previous years, but most people would question why they are being paid at all. How do the vast majority of people who work in the bank branches and deal directly with the customers feel about this? Starting salaries for branch staff are around ¬£13,000 and Unite, the union at Barclays, recently said that some of the staff were eligible to claim tax credits to make ends meet. This cannot be good for morale across the banks when those who are its public face are struggling on low pay, jobs are being cut but a chosen few investment bankers are paid millions. I would suggest scrapping bonuses altogether and introducing a company-wide profit share. It works for John Lewis, where every member of staff gets the same percentage of their salary as a share of profits. Obviously, those on higher pay get more. But this is a big motivator for those who work there. It also gets round the reward for apparent failure when banks pay bonuses without actually making any money. If there's no profit, there shouldn't be any profit share. PIRC, the influential pensions investment adviser, says the EU plan should be a starting point for a discussion about the effectiveness of variable pay in general. Some shareholders are beginning to doubt that it works in the right way and share-based awards and bonuses have driven pay packages for bankers and top executives to sky-high levels. So the EU is right to take on the toxic issue of bank bonuses. Its plan hopefully will work to reduce payouts. There are also some new bank bosses in charge such as Sir David Walker and Antony Jenkins at Barclays who are talking about reforming pay structures. Maybe they can use this cap to exercise some restraint over pay. But shareholders and regulators should watch the banks like hawks to see they don't just boost salaries to compensate for the loss of bonus potential. Given the way banks behave, this is what I fear may happen.  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Ron Johnson's turnaround strategy for JCPenney was largely centered on "fair and square" pricing. This included weaning people off promotions and claiming to offer the lowest prices every day. † The company's marketing even compared JCPenney's prices to competitors and boasted that its were lower. While the retailer has backtracked and started offering promotions again, the "low price" philosophy is still prevalent.† Johnson is running out of time to execute his strategy, which has been a failure so far. Same-store sales are down 32 percent, and the company is burning through what cash it has.† Looking at JCPenney's history, it's not surprising that the new strategy isn't connecting with consumers.† The company's founder, James Cash Penney, had a totally different philosophy on what made a great brand: great customer service. ìThe public is not greatly interested in saving a little money on a purchase at the expense of service,î Penney once said. A big part of JCPenney's turnaround strategy is to cut costs, but it's affecting the service in the stores, according to JCPenney associates who we've spoken with. "I cringe each time I say 'how can I help you?'" an associate told us, "because I feel the chances I actually can have diminished so." "No more help in lingerie, fashion jewelry or men's suits, if help is needed a supervisor is paged, another wait," explained another associate. "I think Mr. Penney would be very unhappy about these changes." Investing in customer service over lower prices is what made JCPenney great, consumer expert and bestselling author Grant Cardone told us.† "Price does not create loyalty, it is the experience exchanged with the customer that exceeds their expectations that binds the customer to a company," Cardone said. Meanwhile, Johnson's thinking is that having the lowest prices every day will get people into the stores. And while Johnson's JCPenney has ramped up its edgy marketing, Penney believed that good service was the only advertisement he needed. "Courteous treatment will make the customer a walking advertisement," Penney once said. Perhaps Johnson should go back to the company's roots.
flickr / Robert S. DonovanThe Kansas City Fed just released its monthly survey of manufacturing activity, and the numbers are downright awful. The headline index plunged to -10 from -2. Economists were expecting it to tick up to -1. Any reading below zero on the index indicates contraction, so what that means is that between January and February, already troubling economic conditions in that region got way worse. And none of the forecasters saw this coming (the lowest estimate from economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an unchanged reading at -2). So what gives? According to the respondents to the survey, this is a story about sequestration ‚Äì the spending cuts set to go into effect tomorrow if the politicians in Washington, D.C. can't come up with some sort of deal to avert it. The Kansas City Fed noted in the release that "many firms expressed concern about possible direct and indirect impacts on orders should federal spending cuts occur with sequestration." Here's what some of the respondents to the survey told the Kansas City Fed: ‚ÄúVery concerned about the reduction in military spending which will likely happen. This could force us to reduce planned capital spending.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe uncertainty is holding back capital purchases from many of our fleet customers.‚Äù ‚ÄúSequestration is causing customers to delay and/or push back orders.‚Äù ‚ÄúCustomers are still being cautious about capital spending.‚Äù ‚ÄúWe are not sure what the effects of sequestration will be, so as a result, we are delaying nearly all spending and hiring plans.‚Äù To get a sense for the significance of that last comment, take a look at some of the sub-indices of the report. Production fell to -11 from -3. Volume of new orders fell to -25 from -2. Volume of shipments fell to -12 from -3. Number of employees collapsed to -8 from +2. (This means that whereas in January, firms were hiring, by February, they were firing ‚Äì and at a lot faster pace than they were hiring in the previous month.) This isn't necessarily representative of the entire country ‚Äì the Chicago district, for example, appears to be doing quite well ‚Äì but wow. Sequestration concerns sure seems to be hitting the Kansas City region pretty hard.
Courtesy of The Library of CongressBritain is to challenge an EU agreement to slash bankers' bonuses at a meeting of European finance ministers next week after Boris Johnson condemned the proposal as a "deluded measure". Amid fears that the EU agreement could deal a hammer blow to the City of London, David Cameron said EU regulations needed to be flexible enough to allow international banks to operate in Britain and the rest of the European Union. George Osborne or the Treasury minister Greg Clark will represent Britain at the meeting next week to relay what No 10 described as real concerns about the proposal. The agreement in Brussels came as the Royal Bank of Scotland posted losses of more than ¬£5bn after paying out more than ¬£600m in bonuses. No 10 said it had imposed cash limits of ¬£2,000 on bonuses at RBS and Lloyds and was giving a greater say to shareholders in all banks. The prime minister's spokesman said: "Bonuses are very significantly down on where they were in 2010. So you are seeing real responsibility and restraint." Johnson highlighted deep British unease about the bonus agreement hammered out in Brussels on Wednesday night between officials from the EU's 27 member states, MEPs and the European commission by dismissing it as the most preposterous idea in Europe in two millennia. Under the agreement, bankers' bonuses would be capped broadly at a year's salary, although they could be doubled if a majority of shareholders agreed. The London mayor said: "People will wonder why we stay in the EU if it persists in such transparently self-defeating policies. Brussels cannot control the global market for banking talent. Brussels cannot set pay for bankers around the world. "The most this measure can hope to achieve is a boost for Zurich and Singapore and New York at the expense of a struggling EU. This is possibly the most deluded measure to come from Europe since Diocletian tried to fix the price of groceries across the Roman empire." Diocletian, the 51st Roman emperor, introduced the edict on maximum prices in AD 301. The prime minister made clear the government's unease at a meeting of Nordic leaders in the Latvian capital of Riga. "We do have in the UK ‚Äì and not every other European country has this ‚Äì we have major international banks that are based in the UK but have branches and activities all over the world, and we need to make sure that regulation put in place in Brussels is flexible enough to allow those banks to continue competing and succeeding while being located in the UK. So we'll look carefully at what the outcome of the negotiations was before working out the approach we'll take at Ecofin [the meeting of EU finance ministers] next week." Downing Street made clear Britain was prepared to water down the proposal at the meeting, though any final decision will be made by qualified majority voting in which no member state has a national veto. Cameron's spokesman said Britain had taken important steps to rein in remuneration, such as deferred payments, which has seen ¬£300m clawed back from Barclays bonuses and 3,000 RBS employees also experiencing "clawback" as a result of the Libor investigations. He said: "The UK believes it has some of the toughest remuneration requirements in the world. They are incentivising long-term behaviour ‚Äì the idea of deferred payments, with a significant proportion in shares that can be clawed back over a period of time. At the heart of this is aligning the incentives with long-term performance and stability. "Alongside that we of course also want a successful financial sector in the UK. There are very successful UK-based firms that compete across the world. They are an asset to the UK. When we are looking at what further regulations may be appropriate we will want to consider the impact on competitiveness. "This idea of a cap ‚Äì one of the things we have been pointing out as a potential consequence of this type of approach, if you cap variable pay ‚Äì bonuses ‚Äì you can see big increases in basic pay. And of course basic pay is not subject to clawback because it is paid out straight away." Cameron said Britain was taking a responsible approach because it was implementing the Vickers proposal to ringfence the retail side of banks away from the investment side. "We are absolutely clear that we must be able to implement the Vickers plan in the UK, which in some ways is tougher than regulations that are being put in place in other European countries. We want to have this proper ringfence between retail banks and investment banks, and the rules must allow that to happen ‚Äì I think that is very important." The spokesman added: "We do continue to have real concerns about them [these proposals] and we will continue to be discussing them with EU partners in the coming days ahead of the Ecofin."  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
ReutersThe headline ran "Troubled Firm to Close 2 Funds Worth $4 Billion." It was February 2008, and the firm in question was the hedge fund D.B. Zwirn. It had succumbed to accounting irregularities, though its namesake, Dan Zwirn, was cleared of any wrongdoing. Now Zwirn, 42, is plotting his comeback, according to the New York Post's Kaja Whitehouse: Despite the difficulties of the last few years, Zwirn feels ‚Äúcompelled‚Äù because he loves deal-making and investing, said a person familiar with his plans. Ideally, he would like to build an investment firm to rival the likes of Cerberus or Fortress, which ended up buying D.B. Zwirn‚Äôs assets after its demise, the person said. A Zwirn spokesman declined to comment. Read the full story on NYPost.com &gt;
Ryan Holst / FlickrYesterday, stocks surged with the the Dow Jones transportation stocks ‚Äî aka the "trannies" ‚Äî leading the way with a 2.9 percent gain. .¬† saw their largest one-day increase since last summer, But with stocks within points of all-time highs, lots of people are wondering¬†if a sell-off is imminent. Rich Moroney, the editor of Dow Theory Forecasts, says the fear is not warranted. The Dow Industrials reached fresh five-year highs on Feb. 27, while the Dow Transports reached all-time highs on Feb. 19, so the primary trend is clearly in the bullish camp under the Dow Theory. While a move to all-time highs in the Dow Industrials and S&amp;P 500 Index could help extend the market‚Äôs run in the near term, all-time highs are not necessary to keep the Dow Theory in the bullish camp. In a nutshell, the Dow Theory says that if Dow transportation stocks and Dow industrial stocks confirm each other's movements highs (or lows), a buy signal (or sell signal) has been indicated. Moroney also says that stocks are not overvalued based on fundamentals. The median S&amp;P 500 stock is at 15-times expected year-ahead earnings ‚Äî a 4 percent discount to the norm since 2004. Moroney says he is not 100-percent all in, but does not believe we're in danger of overheating: "While a secondary correction would not be surprising, the weight of the evidence suggests it is too soon to raise cash aggressively. Our buy lists have 91.9% to 97.5% in stocks."
The new Bloomberg BusinessWeek cover story is on Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles, the dynamic bipartisan duo that's been going around the country and on every TV network preaching the gospel of a centrist approach to deficit reduction. The thrust of the article is: Simpson and Bowles are correct in warning of a big problem to come if we don't get a handle on our deficits, but thanks to political reality, nobody is listening to their dire warnings. The article, written by Joshua Green, doesn't really question whether Simpson and Bowles have correctly assessed the deficit problem, or whether their bipartisan approach is right. It's just taken as a given that they are correct that something must be done. For example: One of the first to spot this problem was Peter Peterson, the Commerce secretary under Richard Nixon and CEO of Lehman Brothers who went on to co-found the Blackstone Group. And: Since then, the temptation to fix the problem all at once has seduced presidents and public intellectuals alike. And: That moment now looks as if it may pass as just one more disappointing chapter in the long quest to straighten out the countryís finances. As Ezra Klein recently tweeted: "It's really weird how the rules of "objective" journalism fall away when the subject is Simpson-Bowles." In other words, and this cover story is an example, people just take it as a given that they're fighting the good fight and correctly assessing the main problem tot he US economy. But as the article notes, people have been sounding the alarm about deficits since the end of the Vietnam War, and they've never mattered or harmed the economy. And two years ago, Simpson himself warned that the US had about "two years" before the markets rebelled... a prediction that has turned out to be incorrect. So there are some good reasons for people to ignore them and the deficit hawk movement, just based on their track record alone. Their future prognostications aside, you can make the argument that they've actually done more harm than good. One of our favorite quotes ever about deficit reduction comes from Richard Koo, the top economist at Nomura: Arguing need for longer-term fiscal consolidation is irresponsibleThe insistence that fiscal consolidation is necessary in the longer term is like the doctor who, faced with a patient who has just been admitted to the intensive care ward, repeatedly questions the patient about his ability to afford the treatment. This is both lacking in decency and irresponsible.If the patient loses heart after learning the cost of the treatment, he may end up spending even longer in the hospital, leading to a larger final bill. Completely ignoring the policy duration effect of fiscal policy and constantly insisting on longer-term fiscal consolidation was what prolonged Japanís recession. Simpson and Bowles have been making their big push for deficit reduction when the US has been at its weakest, and the most desperate for stimulus. Even though Simpson and Bowles don't talk much about near-term austerity, the effect of their warnings (along with every other long-term deficit hawk) is that people who advocate lots more near-term deficit spending are seen as being irresponsible and short-term focused, and they're shunted out of the mainstream. Even The President, who has not embraced short-term cuts, has adopted the idea that spending must be "paid for" (by tax hikes) and implicitly accepted the premise of the debt doomers. This is a point that Rep. Jerry Nadler has made to us... by accepting the long-term deficit problem publicly, Obama has made it seem less responsible to push for more stimulus spending in the short term. The last few years have resulted in a lot of confusion on deficits. Yes, the deficit absolutely exploded since 2008, but totally due to the downturn, and is being rectified fast thanks to the comeback in growth. However, there's been a big public bait and switch where the current cyclical deficit has been used as an excuse to talk about the long-term healthcare-driven deficit. And though the long-term deficit could be an issue, it's taken everyone's eye of the ball, and resulted in a lack of focus on the real issues of growth and employment. It's impossible to quantify exactly what the result of this distraction has been, but any time spent on deficits, rather than current growth or unemployment, has been time wasted. For more on Richard Koo's warnings about deficit reduction, see here &gt;
The New York Fed just published its latest Quarterly Report On Household Debt And Credit. At $11.34 trillion in Q4 2012, total household debt is up from $11.31 trillion in Q3.¬† This suggests that the great consumer deleveraging story may be over. Mortgages account for 71 percent of the debt, which makes the $966 billion of student loans look like peanuts.¬† So, even as people warn about a student debt bubble, the implications would almost certainly be less severe than the housing bubble we recently experienced. This is the second time since the crisis that there's been a slight sequential uptick in household debt, so we'll have to see if this trend continues, or if it's another blip. From the New York Fed: New York Fed
APThe Kansas City Fed's February survey of regional manufacturing activity is out. The headline index plunged to -10 from last month's -2 reading. Economists were expecting a rise to -1. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; The drop was led by volume of new orders, which fell to -25 from -2 last month. Production fell to -11 from -3. Volume of shipments fell to -12 from -3. Number of employees collapsed to -8 from +2. In other words, the pace of contraction in new orders, production, and shipments surged between January and February, while employment went from expansion into sharp contraction. Here's the scoop, from the Kansas City Fed: Tenth District manufacturing activity contracted further in February, and factories‚Äô expectations weakened somewhat. Some contacts noted disruptions in shipments due to bad weather, and many firms expressed concern about possible direct and indirect impacts on orders should federal spending cuts occur with sequestration. Most price indexes were little changed. Below is what respondents to the survey are saying: ‚ÄúWe were closed 1-1/2 days last week due to weather, and that may well happen again today and tomorrow. That is putting us behind last year ‚Äì otherwise, we would probably show a slight increase. We have enough outbound freight on our loading dock to be even with last year, but truck lines aren‚Äôt running.‚Äù ‚ÄúVery concerned about the reduction in military spending which will likely happen. This could force us to reduce planned capital spending.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe uncertainty is holding back capital purchases from many of our fleet customers.‚Äù ‚ÄúSequestration is causing customers to delay and/or push back orders.‚Äù ‚ÄúCustomers are still being cautious about capital spending.‚Äù ‚ÄúWe are not sure what the effects of sequestration will be, so as a result, we are delaying nearly all spending and hiring plans.‚Äù ‚ÄúSmall business aircraft demand has not fully recovered, although it has improved from the depths of the crisis.‚Äù ‚ÄúInfrastructure spending has historically been a large driver of demand for heavy building materials, and it looks to be stuck at low levels on a long-term basis.‚Äù ‚ÄúWe are still struggling to regain ground on overall sales. We are adding more customers but the volume of those sales isn‚Äôt overcoming the reduced sales to existing customers.‚Äù Click here for the full release &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from the last big data point of the day: the Kansas City Fed's February survey of regional manufacturing activity. Economists expect the headline index to rise to -1 from last month's -2 reading, indicating a continued contraction in regional manufacturing activity, but at a less rapid pace. (Last month, economists expected the index to break into positive territory.) We will have the full release LIVE at 11 AM ET. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
Legendary short-seller Jim Chanos, the founder of Kynikos Associates, told Bloomberg TV's Trish Regan that he wouldn't invest in Herbalife.¬† Chanos, who said he doesn't "have a dog in the Herbalife hunt", is a big skeptic of the multi-level marketing model. "I think any business that's dependent ultimately on pulling the wool over your customers whether its the distributors who take on more product than they can sell or the customers who are being sold product at two to three times than what's available down the street I think is a unstable long term business model that I wouldn't want to invest in. Whether you want to short it or not is another issue," he said. "When you're in the business, in effect, of fooling your customers and your salesforce you don't have a really sustainable business."¬† Herbalife is a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products. It has become one of the most controversial stocks in the market because it's in the middle of a huge hedge fund war.¬† On the bearish side, hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square, is shorting more than 20 million shares with a price target of zero because he believes the company is a "pyramid scheme". On the long side, there's hedge fund hot-shot Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC who disclosed an 8.24% stake, and Ackman's long-time rival Carl Icahn, who has a 12.98% stake. Watch the Chanos' interview in the video below:¬†
Wall Street is weak right now, and that means the entrepreneurs are circling. They'll dissect the Street's business, and expose its weaknesses. Hopefully, they'll make a profit. As it stands right now, Vestorly, the start-up brainchild of two former Wall Streeters, is poised to just that. To understand why, you have to understand that Wall Street desperately needs cash right now ‚Äî money that will stick around banks and be invested. One sector that fills that need is Wealth Management. And how valuable are investment advisers to Wall Street? They're the only "top earners" at Morgan Stanley who won't have 100% of their bonuses deferred this year, if that gives you any indication. See, once clients choose someone to manage their money, they tend to keep it there, and at wire houses (banks with connected branches that share information with one another) that means investment advisers can sell clients a wide range of bank products. But obviously there's an alternative to this system. To this Goliath there is a David ‚Äî the independent Registered Investment Advisor (RIA). They're small firms headed up by individuals that love investing and have broken off on their own to make a living out of it. RIAs have a distinct problem, though. They have no brand, which makes marketing and finding clients a massive undertaking. Enter Vestorly. It's an online platform that allows RIAs to communicate directly with their clients through social media. More than that, it leverages their clients' online connections to generate leads of potential clients. When a client shares their RIAs content with friends and family, and those friends and family get to know that RIA, Vestorly tracks those connections. That means instead of RIAs reaching out with a cold call, potential clients are coming to RIAs through a kind of referral. They've already been familiarized with an RIA's ideas and insights through friends or family, so they feel comfortable getting on board. Best of all, Vestorly 100 percent compliant. Think of it as a private club. If an RIA's clients want to share information with a friend (as the platform suggests) those friends have to accept that¬† information. "Vestorly removes the testimonial risk by cutting out any likes, discussions, and commenting. It's fueled by the pre-exiting online activity of interacting with, and sharing, content,"¬†said Vestorly co-founder Justin Wisz. "Vestorly's recommendation algorithms do the thinking for the adviser on relevant content to publish, and Vestorly does the thinking for the client or prospect of the adviser by recommending relevant people in their social graph with whom they should share content. The result is a valuable connection built on social proof that adds value for everyone involved, without risking a testimonial or endorsement." In short, you're not going to get a note from the SEC over a Facebook post. Wisz figured this out during a few hard years as an independent consultant for RIAs. After a stint at California-based investment bank Fisher Investments and back in New York City at SNL Financial, he started his own marketing and lead generation firm for RIAs. "When I was consulting I'd run into clients who‚Äôd called the crisis. They would tell me, 'I'm a wealth manager in Salt Lake City and I‚Äôve been beating the market for 15 years.‚Äô I started to align with them ideologically," said Wisz. It was a few years into that business that he met Ralph Pahlmeyer, a trader at JP Morgan. Together they whittled the costs of an RIA's fliers, advertisements, cold calls etc. down to $5,000 per signed client. Still, less than 1 percent of leads (and RIAs have a ton of them) turned into business. What made them realize they could do better was one simple fact: The vast majority of signed, sealed, and delivered RIA clients come from customer referrals. The pair started raising money from friends, family, and eventually investors last year, and Vestorly will come out of beta in a matter of days. Already the product is being tested by 40 RIA firms around the country, and dozens more are waiting to join. Using social media and referrals, Pahlmeyer and Wisz have lowered the cost of finding a new client down to $200-300. One RIA already on board is Paul Schatz, President of Heritage Capital in Connecticut. He writes a regular client newsletter and contributes to news outlets like Fox Business and CNBC, but he's noticed that over the last year the content he's put out on Vestorly has become a significant tool in his arsenal. ‚ÄúThe first year is usually hard in marketing because there‚Äôs a familiarity you have to get with people reading...now it‚Äôs prime important information," Schatz said. "Before people were deleting the e-mails. Now I‚Äôm seeing responses that are turning into money.‚Äù And it isn't just about finding new clients, it's about keeping the old ones. During the worst years of the financial crisis Schatz noticed that clients were coming to him because their advisers at bigger firms had disappeared when the market was most terrifying. "I'm out there to take every client I can from the wire houses because they don‚Äôt provide quality service. I talk to my clients at least monthly, I challenge the wire houses to do that," said Schatz. "You‚Äôre always going to have down years but if you‚Äôre communicating with your clients through a product like Vestorly, they‚Äôre going to stay with you longer than they would if you sold them a product and disappeared.‚Äù Now is the time for RIAs to strike. Since the financial crisis Wall Street's brand has taken a serious beating and clients are jumping ship for the independent channel. Over the last 5 years, RIAs have been able to take as much as 1 percent ¬†of market share away from wire house behemoths annually. Not too bad for people that have basically no marketing. Now imagine how things will be when they do ‚Äî Wall Street probably is.
With one trading session remaining, the S&amp;P 500 is now up 1.2 percent so far this month and was edging higher in morning trading.In a recent research note, Sam Stovall of S&amp;P Capital IQ reports that there have been 26 times since 1945 that the S&amp;P 500 scored gains in both January and February. In all 26 instances, Stovall says the "500" recorded a positive calendar year total return, averaging an advance‚Äîincluding dividends‚Äîof 24 percent and posting full-year results that were in the single digits just twice: 1987 and 2011. The reason for this full-year early warning signal? "[I]nvestors‚Äîlike an octogenarian willing to skip a nap‚Äîbelieve there may be too much to miss should they take their traditional seasonal siesta," Stovall says. Looking ahead, if the market performs well in January and February, history implies the bulls keep kicking their heels in March. As Stovall notes, following gains in both January and February, the S&amp;P 500 records an average gain of 1.1 percent and had been positive 69 percent of the time. In terms of sector performance in March, there is typically a return to cyclical leadership. Historically, the Consumer Discretionary, Materials, Energy, Financials and Industrials groups outperform. Investors who wish to play these historical trends could consider ETFs that track the sectors such as the Consumer Discretionary SPDR Fund, which includes names like Comcast, McDonald's, and Home Depot and the Materials SPDR Fund, which includes names like Monsanto, DuPont and Dow Chemical. (Comcast is the parent company of NBCUniversal.) Then again, before committing capital, Stovall also offers a careful reminder: history might suggest such bullish performance but certainly doesn't guarantee it.
Astrid Stawiarz/Getty Images Even those who have gotten used to following the ongoing train wreck that is JC Penney were shocked yesterday when the company's Q4 results came out. The numbers were abysmal, with JC Penney's same-store sales--the level of sales made by stores that have been operating for at least a year--dropping a staggering 32%. On the ensuing conference call, JC Penney's new CEO Ron Johnson took responsibility for the mistakes JC Penney has made, but he discussed the results as if the company were merely in the midst of a big transformation that will soon be complete. Whether JC Penney eventually completes the transformation that Ron Johnson has embarked on remains to be seen. But after a year of horrific results, one thing is clear: So far, this "transformation" is only a "transformation" in the way that the demolition of a building is a "transformation." To reiterate: JC Penney's same-store sales dropped by nearly a third year over year. A third! That means that a store that sold, say, $100 million of stuff in 2011 only sold ~$70 million in 2012. It will not surprise you to learn that highly price-competitive retail stores do not operate at profit margins that can handle that sort of revenue drop. Retail stores have enormous fixed costs--rent, inventory, people--and they usually operate at very thin profit margins. As a result, with even a much smaller revenue drop, stores that might contribute meaningful operating profit to a retail chain suddenly become money-losing lead weights. And when a company has finite resources, the way JC Penney does, these stores cannot remain money-losing lead weights for long, or else the company will go bankrupt. So Ron Johnson does not have much more time to complete (or at least radically change the direction of) his "transformation" before JC Penney joins legions of other once-powerful retailers in bankruptcy. But that's not the only observation about the quarter that JC Penney just reported that's important to make. Here's another: It is possible that JC Penney just reported the worst same-store sales decline of a major retailer in industry history. Retail chains simply do not report results like this unless they are in deep distress. They can't report results like this, because they can't survive if they do. I am far from an expert in retail, but I cannot remember any other major retailer ever reporting a same-store sales decline that was anywhere close to this. Can you? Or can we make it official that JC Penney just delivered the worst quarter in retail history? SEE ALSO: INSIDE JCPENNEY: Widespread Fear, Frustration, And Distrust With Ron Johnson And His Management Team
The stock tanked on the earnings news.¬† Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, the CEO of $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, is the biggest shareholder of JCP with a 18.11% stake, or 39,075,771 shares, according the latest 13F filing.¬† So far, he's taken a bath betting on the retailer.¬† According to our calculations, Pershing Square's JCP lost about $149 million in value since yesterday's close.¬† Yesterday JCPenney stock closed at $21.16 a share. The stock was last trading down more than 18.11 percent at about $17.33 per share today.¬† Ackman, who is on JCPenney's board, still remains a believer in the retailer. Earlier this month at the Harbor Investment Conference, he said JCPenney's CEO Ron Johnson has done a lot in the 13 or 14 months that he's been at the helm. ¬† Ackman noted that Johnson had a tougher time with the decision to completely withdraw promotions. He explained that the consumer base was used to coupons, so that's why Johnson took the price level down to where the consumer would want to buy it.¬† The problem, Ackman explained, is once those promotions were taken away is getting the consumer in, but the company has responded with the circulars and advertisements by including a reference price. He said JCPenney is also bringing sales back at relevant times. ¬† Ackman also said the media has been "very negative" and Johnson gets "picked on more than any other CEO in the country."¬† Someone at the conference then asked Ackman what if JCP's plan doesn't work. ¬†To that, he responded with, "It's hard for me to imagine a scenario in which sales don't stabilize."
JCPenney's nightmarish free fall continued Thursday.† Its stock is down 17 percent in the first few minutes of trading. The latest earnings release yesterday†set off alarm bells among investors as the company reported a massive net loss and said same-store sales were crumbling. Here's where the stock opened this morning:†
 Jonathan Daniel/Getty ImagesThe latest Chicago PMI data are out. The index rose to 56.8 in February from last month's 55.6 reading. Economists predicted it would fall to 54.0 after unexpectedly exploding higher last month. Any number over 50 indicates expansion, whereas a number under 50 indicates contraction. The gains in the index were led by new orders, which rose to 60.2 from 58.2, and order backlogs, which rose to 50.9 from 46.6. Production moderated slightly to 60.2 from last month's 60.9 reading. Employment, which drove last month's big gains, fell to 55.7 from 58.0. Click here for the full release &gt;
Bloomberg TVBloomberg TV's sassy, smart, and outspoken Stephanie Ruhle has been on air for a short time, but she already has a loyal following on Wall Street. Every weekday, Ruhle acts as a foil to her straight-laced co-host, Erik Schatzker on Market Makers. A former banker herself, she's not only known for her easy manner with some of the biggest names in the business, but also for her scoops. It was Ruhle, after all, who harpooned the London Whale. For all those reasons and more, Business Insider asked her to take us on a tour of her life. Ruhle was kind enough to oblige. The day starts at 5:35 a.m. and does not stop until around 11:00 p.m., or maybe later. "If I'm lucky 11 p.m. ... I go out a lot at night and usually I return after my kids go to bed," Ruhle told Business Insider. "But if I'm home and try to be disciplined, it usually fails and I get sucked into watching the newest episode of Girls." We've all been there.
Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images Apple didn't break any big news at its shareholder meeting yesterday, but a couple of statements by the company's CEO, Tim Cook, stood out. The first was Cook's comment that Apple's board and management "don't like" the fact that Apple's stock has crashed. Apple rarely (if ever) comments on its stock price. So this remark was notable. Companies don't have many ways that they can directly influence their share prices (other than putting up great numbers), but one of the avenues open to Apple is to significantly increase its dividend or otherwise return cash to shareholders. I would be surprised if Apple did not take some action on this front in the next few months. The second comment Cook made is potentially worrisome. When asked about new product categories that Apple might develop, Cook was quoted by Brent Dirks of AppAdvice as saying the following: ‚ÄúObviously we‚Äôre looking at new categories ‚Äî we don‚Äôt talk about them, but we‚Äôre looking at them." Cook's refusal to talk about new product categories is not meaningful--Apple never reveals anything about new products--but the Cook's wording might be. Cook said Apple is "looking at" new product categories. And he said it twice. This is distinctly different than the wording Cook has used in the past when asked about new product categories, such as the widely discussed Apple TV. Last December, when asked about new product categories by NBC's Brian Williams, Cook said the following: When I go into my living room and turn on the TV, I feel like I have gone backwards in time by 20 to 30 years. It‚Äôs an area of intense interest. I can‚Äôt say more than that. That wording seemed to confirm that Apple was on the cusp of releasing a big new TV product, one that would bring the TV experience into the 21st Century.  And identifying a problem with TV and saying that it was an area of "intense interest" for Apple makes the product sound a lot more immediate than saying that Apple is "looking at new [product] categories." (Of course Apple is looking at new product categories.) Now, it would be a mistake to attach too much meaning to this. Cook may have been intentionally playing down an imminent new product release, or he may be so sick of answering the question that he just tossed off a dismissive answer. But the wording stood out. Meanwhile, Apple's stock dropped modestly after the shareholder meeting and now stands at $445--about $10 above a new closing low. At that price, the stock is trading at only 10X trailing earnings, which suggests that the market thinks that Apple's earnings will shrink going forward. So for those who think that Apple is not just "looking at" new product categories, but has fully baked exciting new product categories ready to be released, this level looks cheap. SEE ALSO: Why Apple's Stock Is Collapsing--And When It Might Be A Buy
Hundreds of drugs are in short supply and the situation is getting worse, according to the Greek drug regulator. The government has drawn up a list of more than 50 pharmaceutical companies it accuses of halting or planning to halt supplies because of low prices in the country. More than 200 medicinal products are affected, including treatments for arthritis, hepatitis C and hypertension, cholesterol-lowering agents, antipsychotics, antibiotics, anaesthetics and immunomodulators used to treat bowel disease. Separately, it was announced on Tuesday that the Swiss Red Cross was slashing its supply of donor blood to Greece because it had not paid its bills on time. Chemists in Athens describe chaotic scenes with desperate customers going from pharmacy to pharmacy to look for prescription drugs that hospitals could no longer dispense. The government list includes some of the world's leading pharmaceutical companies, such as Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca. Pfizer, Roche and Sanofi all said a few products had been withheld. GSK and AstraZeneca denied the claims. "Companies are ceasing these supplies because Greece is not profitable for them and they are worried that their products will be exported by traders to other richer countries through parallel trade as Greece has the lowest medicine prices in Europe," said Professor Yannis Tountas, the president of the Greek drug regulator, the National Organisation for Medicines. The regulator has investigated 13 pharmaceutical companies that have reduced supplies and has handed the names of eight to the ministry of health so they can be fined. Tountas did not disclose the names of the companies, saying this was the responsibility of the ministry of health, but added that they were "big multinational companies". The body representing pharmacists, the Panhellenic Pharmaceutical Association, confirmed the shortages. "I would say supplies are down by 90%," said Dimitris Karageorgiou, its secretary general. "The companies are ensuring that they come in dribs and drabs to avoid prosecution. Everyone is really frightened. Customers tell me they are afraid [about] losing access to medication altogether." He said many also worried insurance coverage would dry up. "Around 300 drugs are in very short supply and they include innovative drugs, medications for cancer patients and people suffering from clinical depression," said Karageorgiou. "It's a disgrace. The government is panic-stricken and the multinationals only think about themselves and the issue of parallel trade because wholesalers can legally sell them to other European nations at a higher price." The Hellenic Association of Pharmaceutical Companies said the picture was more nuanced. Its president, Frouzis Konstantinos, said there were "probably a very few companies" that were not supplying the Greek market, and only for very specific products ‚Äî "the reasons being a combination of Greece's low medicine prices and unpaid debt by the state", he said. In Athens and Thessaloniki, Greece's second city, chemists say they are often overwhelmed by people desperately trying to find life-saving drugs. Oscillating between fury and despair, the customers beseech pharmacists to hand over medications that they frequently do not have in stock. "Lines will form in the early morning or late at night when you're on duty," said Karageorgiou, who is based in Thessaloniki. "And when the drugs aren't available, which is often the case, people get very aggressive. I'm on duty tonight and know there will be screaming and shouting but in the circumstances I also understand. We have reached a tragic point." Greece's social insurance funds and hospitals owe pharmaceutical companies about ‚Ç¨1.9bn (¬£1.6bn), a debt going back to 2011, with companies expecting payments of ‚Ç¨500m this month. Some companies admitted they were not supplying some medicines. According to the government list, Pfizer had not supplied or would not be supplying 16 medicines. A company spokesperson disagreed with the total but confirmed four medicines had been withdrawn "because alternatives were available and because of the parallel trade [reselling] situation in the country". The products are the two leukaemia treatments Zavedos and Aracytin, which were withdrawn last year, and the analgesic Neurontin and the epilepsy therapy Epanutin, which were withdrawn last month. Roche stressed it had not halted supplies of medicines to Greece, but said it had withheld supplies to public hospitals that owed the company ‚Ç¨200m. Daniel Grotsky, a spokesman, said: "We are insisting that they [the public hospitals] fulfil their contracts and this is something we do in any country ‚Ä¶ We are withholding [medicines] until they meet their obligations." Roche could not say how many hospitals were affected but said it was still supplying public hospitals with "critical medicines", which included treatments for HIV and transplantation. Grotsky said patients could still get their medicines through pharmacies. Angeliki Angeli, spokeswoman for Sanofi Greece, said it was supplying public hospitals with medicines considered life-saving, unique or irreplaceable. "Non-unique products are supplied based on hospitals' outstanding obligations and overdue status," she said. Non-unique products are medicines for which either a generic exists or a therapeutic alternative option is recommended by treatment guidelines. She said most Sanofi medicines on the government list remained available on the market with the "exception of a couple of dosages/forms where alternatives exist". GSK Greece said it had never halted the supply of any product in the Greek market. "This is a joint decision taken not only at local level but also at corporate level. Equally, GSK has maintained the uninterrupted supply [to] Greek public hospitals with all its products irrespective of the accumulated debts," the company said. Vanessa Rhodes, of AstraZeneca, said the company had not halted the supply of any of its medicines to Greece. "Our priority is to ensure patients have access to the medicines they need. Furthermore, we have an emergency 'direct‚Äìto-pharmacy' supply system in place should pharmacies find themselves out of stock of any of our products." Zeta Chatziantoniou, of Boehringer Ingelheim in Greece, stressed it "has not halted any of its medicine supplies in Greece in the retail sector and in the public sector". Novartis said it was not halting supplies to Greece. The pharmaceutical industry says many shortages are because of products being exported through parallel trade, and has urged the government to address set drug prices. Under EU trade rules, the free movement of goods is allowed. So for example, while a pharmaceutical company may sell a medicine to a wholesaler or pharmacist in Greece, the wholesaler or pharmacist can sell these medicines on to wholesalers in other countries. Parallel traders do this to make money on the price differences between countries. "The government needs to correct these wrong prices to avoid a surge of exportation. Greece's drug prices are 20% or more lower than the lowest prices in Europe," said Konstantinos, who is also the general manager of Novartis in Greece. The industry wants the health ministry to bring in a new pricing system so that Greece uses a basket of eurozone countries to calculate prices. At present, medicines are priced at below the average of the three lowest prices in 22 EU countries. The regulator has introduced export bans for nearly 60 medicines to try to tackle the problem and is looking at 300 more products. It is also investigating 10 wholesalers and 260 pharmacists who it believes have broken the export ban. The ministry of health will decide any punishment, which is likely to be fines ranging from ‚Ç¨2,000 to ‚Ç¨20,000, said Tountas. This month will be crucial as Greek officials and Greece's creditors ‚Äì the European commission, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank ‚Äì must agree the 2013 public pharmaceutical budget, which has fallen in recent years. More cuts would put patients at a "critical level", said Tountas, who will be one of the key players at the negotiating table. The budget was ‚Ç¨3.7bn in 2011 and fell to ‚Ç¨2.44bn last year. Tountas is concerned creditors may cut it to ‚Ç¨2bn for 2013.  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk
A banker was falsely labelled 'Crazy Miss Cokehead' during a vicious campaign of harassment after she blew the whistle on insider dealing, a tribunal heard yesterday. Svetlana Lokhova, the Russian-born daughter of a shipping broker, was also described as ìchemically dependent minigarch daughterî. The Cambridge graduate says she was accused of taking cocaine, being mad and unstable by bank bosses as part of a ìsustained and vicious campaign of harassment and discrimination.î Miss Lokhova, 32, believed she was victimised after she reported a senior trader at Sberbank for insider dealing. Bosses had told her the complaint was ìunacceptableî and in February 2010 she quit her £120,000 a year London-based job as Head of Fixed Income Sales at subsidiary Troika Dialog UK. Months later, the trader was dismissed and one of the bosses was later arrested by the FBI and convicted of an unconnected fraud in the US while working for UBS. Two months after her departure, Miss Lokhova was tempted back to her employers by bosses in Moscow who offered her a guaranteed annual bonus of £666,000. But she claimed that by then her line manager, head of equity sales David Longmuir, and Sberbank UK CEO Paolo Zaniboni had by then taken a dislike to her over her whistle blowing, and conspired to get rid of her. Miss Lokhova, who was now working in Equity Sales, resigned from the bank for a second time last April. She is claiming sex discrimination, harassment, victimisation, and constructive dismissal, and that she was entitled to protection as a whistle blower. Bosses were said to have sent ìdefamatoryî remarks about her using a messaging system to colleagues and clients of the bank. In a witness statement to the tribunal, Miss Lokhova said: ìI was referred to as ëcrazyí, ëmentalí, ëMrs Cavemaní, ëCrazy Miss Cokeheadí, ëtotally unstable, ëbitchí and ëquite-likely-clinically bonkersÖ MAJOR carcrash cominí.î She cited one comment made by Mr Longmuir to a client from one of the largest asset management firms, saying: ìWe are all quaking here ñ awaiting arrival of Ms Cokehead in puff of sulphurous smoke.î In another remark, he was said to have written that she should ìvisit all regional officesÖ by trainÖ from Moscowî and a colleague replied that she should walk instead ìin hiking bootsÖ and plenty of marching powderî. Miss Lokhova said: ìTo discover the extent of the sexist comments that were being made about me is shocking. ìThis was even more so given the hard work and effort that I had made at the bank, both in my first and second periods of employment. ìI believe that it is no accident that a large number of derogatory or insulting references to me are accompanied by a gender specific word. ìIt also seemed that David was entirely confident in speaking about me in such a way, both to my colleagues and to clients, which suggests that he had already established in their minds a completely false and disparaging perception of me. ìDavid was also effectively making me out to be an unacceptable salesperson to clients of the bank - let alone to any others whom those clients might have decided to pass on his comments.î Her barrister Andrew Srafford QC told the tribunal the references to her were ìclearly a defamatory suggestion that Miss Lokhova was a cocaine userî which Mr Longmuir now accepted was untrue and defamatory. They showed a ìwillingness and intent to damage, by unlawful means, Miss Lokhovaís personal reputation and professional standing,î Mr Stafford added. Naomi Ellenbogen QC, for the bank, denied Miss Lokhova was victimised because she was a whistleblower. Instead Miss Lokhovaís ìrude and dismissive attitude towards colleagues, her unprofessional behaviour and her tendency to lose her temper and self-control when things did not go her wayî were to blame. The hearing at the Central London Employment Tribunal continues. 
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderWe got two economic reports at 8:30 AM. The first revision of Q1 GDP came in at 0.1%, which is an improvement from the initial reading of -0.1%, but which was still below the 0.5% that analysts had expected. The other economic report was initial jobless claims, which fell to 344K from 362K. Analysts had expected 360K. GDP is a much bigger report, but we'd argue that the claims number is more important. For one thing, GDP is old. Not only is Q4 last year, it's encompasses a whole quarter, so we're still getting data from last October. Second, initial claims is very important, because the economy is in a state of concern right at this moment. Everyone's worried that the end of the payroll tax holiday will slow down the economy. And of course the sequester is right around the corner. If you want to know what's happening now, focus on that weekly claims number. GDP is interesting, but it's old and no longer reflective of the latest cross-currents.
BloombergDrew Matus, UBSThe BEA just released its second estimate of U.S. fourth quarter GDP. Total output expanded 0.5 percent ñ a marked increase over the initial estimate, which showed a 0.1 percent contraction in the U.S. economy. However, personal consumption growth, which clocked in at 2.2 percent in the initial estimate and was expected to rise to 2.3 percent in today's release, actually slowed to 2.1 percent. UBS economist Drew Matus was just on CNBC following the release. Matus said he would have preferred the initial estimate, given the details: The GDP number ñ†fine, it went up, but the details got worse. So, in a way, I would have rather had it stay negative and had the old details that I had before.† The consumption number was revised lower. I never like to see it. I know it was only a tenth [of a percentage point], but people were expecting it to go higher. On a forward-looking basis, though, Matus is optimistic. He told CNBC regarding where the economy is at now in the first quarter, "I think we're getting better, and I think the claims numbers point to that. That's actually the story of the day." Click here for details on today's initial claims release &gt;
JC Penney shares are plummeting today after a big earnings whiff yesterday. One bright spot was how much cash the company accumulated. But even that is dubious. Morgan Stanley's Kimberly Greenberger notes that it looks like JC Penney is defering payments to vendors. JCP deferring vendor payments to shore up cash? Inventory dropped 20% y/y, still above JCP's -32% SSS, but merchandise accounts payable rose 14%. Typically, inventory and payables move together, suggesting JCP is delaying payments. Mgmt indicated it is changing vendor payment terms to be more in line with industry norms. Payables now represent 50% of inventory, much higher than peer M's 30%. In fact, had JCP's payables balance declined in line with inventory, payables would have represented 35% of inventory, much closer to its peer, but cash would have been $344M lower. For more on the earnings whiff, see here &gt;
MRBECK / FlickrThe¬†second estimate for fourth quarter U.S. GDP is out. GDP rose 0.1 percent, missing economists' predictions of a bigger 0.5 percent gain. Personal consumption growth came in at 2.1 percent, below both the advance estimate (2.2 percent) and expectations (2.3 percent). The biggest positive drivers were consumption of durable goods, which contributed 1.01 percentage points to GDP growth, and nonresidential fixed investment in equipment and software, which contributed 0.79 percentage points. The biggest factors weighing on growth were nonfarm private inventories, which subtracted 1.70 percentage points from GDP growth, and federal defense spending, which subtracted 1.28 percentage points. UBS economist Drew Matus said in an interview with CNBC following the release that while the number turned positive, the details got worse ‚Äì so he would have preferred the negative number. Matus was referring to the downward revision to personal consumption growth. Click here for the full release &gt;
 Initial jobless claims fell from 362K to 344K. That's much better than the expectations of 360K. Other than that, there's not too much to say. Initial claims is one of our favorite real-time indicators to watch, so this is a good sign.
Nick Murrayís†Simple Wealth, Inevitable Wealth[1]†deserves to be the exception to my rule of never reviewing ìHow to Investî books. Stylistically, Murrayís prose is the Yin to Nassim Talebís Yang.[2]† Murray is gentle, meditative, and modest in affect, part financial advisor and part Zen master, contemplating the beauty of compounding investment returns[3]†and inter-generational wealth-building. Yet for all his gentle style, heís no less sure of himself or passionate when it comes to what he sees as simple, but overlooked principles for building wealth over time. Since Iíve come to adopt his views as my own, itís worth highlighting the best of them here. His strongest points, which he spends the bulk of the book proving to my satisfaction are the following: First, owning a diversified portfolio of equities over the long-term does not carry significant risk of capital loss.† The diversified portfolio of equities is subject to volatility, but volatility passes away under long-term time horizons[6]†and should not be conflated with risk. Second, building wealth through the steady accumulation of equity mutual funds is†simple,[7]†and the result of this behavior, over a lifetime, is†inevitable†wealth. Third, in contrast, bonds or riskless assets will not build wealth, but rather condemn the investor to a long-run loss of purchasing power.† If your goal is to†build†wealth ñ rather than provide current income ñ you cannot afford to be invested in bonds. Murrayís main message ñ as restated above ñ may be manipulated, distorted, exaggerated or parodied, but cannot be proved wrong. Professionally Iím a ìfixed-income/bond guyî through and through,[8]†so I believe in the uses and opportunities of bonds and safe cash-flows.† Despite my experience and biases, I believe Murray on his own terms, is absolutely, capital ìRî Right. † † [1]†Full title of the book: ìSimple Wealth, Inevitable Wealth ñ How You And Your Financial Advisor Can Grow Your Fortune In Stock Mutual Fundsî [2]†I greatly admire and recommend Taleb, but as Iíve written on†Fooled by Randomness†and†Black Swan, his prose style can be abrasive. [3]†Clearly Iím partial to†the power of compound interest, the most powerful force in the universe. [4]†Also known as the ìFinancial Infotainment Industrial Complexî [5]†On timing, Murray writes: ìTime†in the market, as opposed to†timing†the market, is not a way of capturing the long-term returns of equities; it is the only practicable way.† You have to stay in it to win it.î† This makes a lot of sense if you understand†the magical power of compound interest. [6]†He defines long-term as, at minimum, 5 years. [7]†Murray explains that, while the process is†simple, simple is not the same as†easy.† Itís incredibly hard, in fact, to have enough left over, after paying your bills, to constantly invest in equities month after month, year after year, for your entire life.† But if you can do that, wealth is†inevitable.† Hence, the title of the book. [8]†Iíve been a bond salesman, and fixed-income hedge fund manager.† I have no professional experience with the stock market.† Mostly I find conversations about stocks and the stock market incredibly uninteresting.† But I still believe you have to have your money exposed to them, or other forms of risky equity, to build wealth. Post read (104) times. Tags:†bonds,†compound interest,†inevitable wealth,†mutual funds,†simple wealth,†stocks - See more at: http://www.bankers-anonymous.com/book/book-review-simple-wealth-inevitable-wealth-by-nick-murray/#sthash.OnfIyT4A.dpuf
flickrfriendsofeuropeIn the just-concluded Italian election, the big loser was Mario Monti. The outgoing Prime Minister only garnered 10% of the vote, which has to be one of the worst showings for any incumbent in the history of elections. Monti came into power in late November 2011, when surging national borrowing costs resulted in the ouster of Silvio Berlusconi. Monti -- a favorite of bankers and the ECB -- instituted reforms (cutting pensions, raising taxes) that were very unpopular, but got high marks from other European leaders. But during Monti's tenure there has been a huge drop in Italian borrowing costs. So as Monti prepares to leave the stage, the perspective of European elites is: Well, he heroically did the tough, unpopular choices that were necessary to restore confidence. van Rompuy praises Monti - says has put the country on a sound footing EU's Van Rompuy says Italy's reforms restored confidence Here's a look at 10-year borrowing costs for Italy, going back the last 3 years. Bloomberg Italian borrowing costs had two distinct peaks. The first peak, in late 2011, was assuaged when the ECB announced its 3-year LTRO program, which was a backstop for the banks. The second peak, in summer 2012 came when ECB chief Mario Draghi made his famous "whatever it takes" comment about saving the Eurozone. Draghi would go on to establish the OMT program, whereby the ECB would backstop sovereign bonds, provided that the countries requested aid and agreed to austerity. So it's true that Italian borrowing costs have come down, but it's very clear why: The work of the ECB, backstopping both banks and sovereigns. There's no evidence that Monti's confidence-inspiring reforms have accomplished anything. Certainly looking at the situation in the private sector, there's no evidence that Monti's confidence creation has done any wonders for Italian corporate activity. But this is the lie they keep telling themselves in Europe. They all talk about making these hard choices, to get back in the graces of the market. But the only thing that works is the unlimited backstop of the ECB. SEE ALSO: Why Italian voters staged Europe's first rebellion &gt;
flickr / Greg HernandezGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Asia has more billionaires than any other continent, a survey by a China-based wealth magazine showed on Thursday, apparently overtaking North America for the first time. There were 1,453 people around the world with a personal wealth of $1 billion or more as of January, said the Hurun Report, a luxury magazine publisher that compiled the list. Asia had 608 billionaires, North America 440 and Europe 324, it said in a statement. It is believed to be the first time Asia has been named as home of the largest proportion of super-rich on any global list. US business magazine Forbes said in its most recent international rich list, published in March last year, that the Asia-Pacific region had 315 billionaires, compared to 450 from North America and 310 in Europe. Among individual countries, the United States and China dominated the Hurun list, with 408 and 317 billionaires respectively, followed by Russia, Germany and India. Mexican telecoms czar Carlos Slim, 73, was ranked as the "Richest Man on the Planet" with a personal fortune of $66 billion. Slim also topped last year's Forbes global list. US investor Warren Buffett and Amancio Ortega of Spain, founder of fashion brand Zara, were second and third in the Hurun Report rankings, with a net worth of $58 billion and $55 billion respectively. Hong Kong investor Li Ka-shing kept his title of Asia's richest man with $32 billion, the seventh wealthiest person in the world. "In China we've seen a huge urbanisation boom and that has created a lot of wealth in property," Rupert Hoogewerf, chairman and chief researcher of the Hurun Report, told AFP. Zong Qinghou, who heads soft-drink producer Wahaha, and Wang Jianlin of property developer Wanda were the only two from mainland China to make it into the top 100. AFP The Hurun Report estimated the total wealth of the world's dollar billionaires at $5.5 trillion, roughly the size of the Japanese economy last year. "This past year has seen a rebound in the wealth of the private sector," it said, adding the net assets of the 10 richest people on the list rose 22 percent over the year, or $250 million a day. Real estate, telecommunications, media and technology and retail were the most common sources of wealth, it added. Moscow has more billionaires than any other city in the world with 76, it said, edging out New York, Hong Kong, Beijing and London. Hoogewerf said the true number of billionaires in the world could be three times higher as some super-rich hid their worth. "Some people deliberately make their wealth a secret because... they gained it through illegal ways," he told reporters at a press conference. "Some others simply prefer to keep a low profile." Hoogewerf, an accountant by training, previously compiled the Forbes rich list. He said the survey methods included examining public information such as stock market reports, scouring artwork purchase records and tracking down philanthropical activities. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
TravelBusy.com / FlickrNEW DELHI (AP) ó India's finance minister Thursday unveiled a national budget with a promise to put Asia's third largest economy back on a path of high growth and to trim the fiscal deficit. Palaniappan Chidambaram told Parliament that attracting foreign investment was crucial to reversing India's economic slowdown and getting the nation back to fiscal health. Reducing the budget deficit meant the government had no choice but to cut spending, he said. The budget foresees total expenditure of 16.65 trillion rupees ($306 billion) in the fiscal year that begins April 1. The finance ministry forecast the fiscal deficit to decline to 4.8 percent of gross domestic product from 5.2 percent expected in the current fiscal year. Among measures to boost revenue, the minister announced a temporary tax hike for the "super rich." The 42,800 people with annual income over 10 million rupees ($186,000) would pay the additional tax for one year. He also hiked taxes on imported luxury cars, high-end motorcycles and yachts, all of which have become symbols of affluence among India's upper classes. Cigarettes, cigars, mobile phones and SUVs would cost more, as would dining at expensive restaurants, Chidambaram said. Big companies would pay more tax to boost government revenue. The budget comes against the backdrop of a downhill slide in India's economic growth from earlier levels of 9 percent. The economy is projected to grow about 5 per cent this fiscal year ending March, far below the 7.6 per cent growth projected in last year's budget and prompting calls from economists for an increase in the pace of economic and financial reforms. The government, led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, has over the past two years tried to push through legislation to ease restrictions on foreign investment and allow international retailers to open supermarkets here. But it has faced stiff resistance from opposition politicians, who shut down Parliament over the issue, casting doubt on the government's ability to execute reforms. Last week, India's trade unions and bank employees unions held a country-wide strike to protest economic reforms. Singh hailed the new budget, saying India "should get back to 8 percent growth in 2 to 3 years." The finance ministry has forecast growth of between 6.1 percent and 6.7 percent in the new fiscal year. Chidambaram announced a marginal increase in defense expenditure with the budget for safeguarding the country increased to 2.03 trillion rupees ($37.7 billion). The budget has a provision of 867.4 billion rupees for India, the world's top arms and defense equipment buyer, to purchase new defense equipment in the next fiscal year. With the country headed for general elections in 2014, government spending on costly social programs was projected to go up substantially. The budget has assigned 100 billion rupees for an ambitious food security program. Chidambaram told lawmakers the country was also facing a current account deficit crisis due to huge imports of oil, coal and gold and a slowdown in exports. Chidambaram said India would need around $75 billion this year and next year from foreign investment and external commercial borrowing to bridge the current account deficit. The current account is a broad measure of trade and investment balances with the rest of the world. "India at the present juncture does not have the choice of welcoming and spurning foreign investment. We need to welcome foreign investment," he said. Opposition political leaders said the budget only made cosmetic changes in taxation and expenditure. It was "extremely low on substance, with nothing to offer to the poor, and a substantial reduction in budgetary support for the economically deprived," said Arun Jaitely, a leader of the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party. Business leaders gave it a higher rating. "The finance minister's intentions are very clear: to move India back to a higher growth plane. And given his lack of runway, he has taken lots of small measures which together could boost growth," said N. Chandrasekaran, CEO and Managing Director of Tata Consultancy Services, India's top outsourcing company. Chidambaram tried to dispel the general air of despondency over the Indian economy's slowdown, saying it was "not all doom and gloom." "Only China and Indonesia are growing faster than India, and achieving high growth is not beyond India's capacity," he said. "We have done it and we will do it again."
You might have thought that Monday‚Äôs slide in the equity market wiped out quite a bit of the euphoria in the markets. ¬†If so, you‚Äôd be wrong based on the Hulbert Nasdaq Sentiment Index which is still at its highest level since March 2000: Via Short Side of Long: What I find even more intriguing than all the technical mumbo jumbo I just wrote about, is that just about everyone is not expecting the outcome laid out in this post. Mark Hulbert runs a great service called Financial Digest, which tracks the opinions and recommendations of various newsletter advisors for the Nasdaq. Just like any other contrarian indicator, when the Hulbert Nasdaq Sentiment shows the majority of ‚Äúgurus‚Äù holding net short exposure it usually means its the time to buy and visa versa. Chart 3 shows that the current readings were above 90% net long exposure, which is one of the most bullish readings since March 2000 (the month the Tech Stock bubble burst). With just about everyone positioning themselves for higher prices, what could possibly go wrong? It is truly rare to find anyone out there expecting a bear market, that is for sure. Pragmatic Capitalism ¬†
TheeErin / FlickrOf today's economic data releases, the revised Q4 GDP report will be the most closely watched. Last month, everyone was stunned when when the Bureau of Economic Analysis told us that GDP grew by -0.1 percent in Q4.† Economists were looking for a reading of 1.1 percent. Thanks to some additional data, economists are now expecting that number to be revised to +0.5 percent when the BEA releases its new GDP report later this morning. But even that number is likely to be thrown out when we get revisions in March. Furthermore, there's a mammoth revision coming in July that could make today's report completely moot. Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna: The second snapshot of Q4 real GDP is expected to show a modest upward revision because of stronger than previously reported readings on construction spending and net exports. This should offset what is likely to be a downward revision to inventory positions. The fact that the latter are so low bodes well for future production. Indeed, that is what the January durable goods data suggest. Remember Q4 real GDP will be revised again next month and more importantly, it will be subject to further and possibly more significant revision in late July when the Commerce Department conducts its roughly semi-decade comprehensive benchmark revisions. We'll cover today's BEA release live when it comes out at 8:30 AM ET.
Pierre Lesage / FlickrIn the wake of the Italian election -- which looks likely to end with an unstable government, at best, SocGen is advising clients to sell Italian bonds, and buy Spanish ones instead. Says analyst Ciaran O'Hagan: We expect an unstable coalition will materialise in April. But it will be unable to take the tough measures which are needed to facilitate a pick-up in Italian growth. That scenario will be rewarded with rating downgrades. More worryingly still, this will be set against the difficult budget negotiations in the US, and the d√©nouement of the Cyprus mess. In the meantime, the Washington brinkmanship is likely to further exacerbate tensions in Europe. That is of course exactly what we saw in 2011 (i.e. BTPs were hit badly by the contagion of US risk). Two years ago on Friday 5 August, the US was downgraded by S&amp;P; that was the last straw for the ECB, leading the ESCB to buy BTPs and SPGBs on Monday 8 August. A better horse to ride now is still SPGBs. Spain has proved more resilient to stress: it is of course easier now for Spain (than Italy) to ask for help. And ECB/ESM buying would resteepen the SPGB curve vs BTPs. This key point about who can or can't ask for ECB help is key. One of the primary messages from the Italian election is that voters don't like politicians who take their cues from Brussels or outside leaders. In order to get ECB purchases of your sovereign debt, you must not only ask, you must submit to outside-imposed austerity conditions. Italy just rejected this option. Spain more easily maintains this ability.
The World Economic Forum, Flickr Japan has officially named Haruhiko Kuroda to head up the the BoJ. Kuroda is the head of the Asian development bank, and is generally seen as an advocate of monetary stimulus, so the markets like this news, etc. Naming a BoJ chief was one of the most important decisions that the new Prime Minister -- Shinzo Abe -- had to make, given the significance of monetary stimulus in his plans to jumpstart the Japanese economy. Nomura economist Richard Koo -- who is one of the finest Japan watchers there is -- likes the pick, even though Koo himself is skeptical that monetary policy can accomplish much in a balance sheet recession (Koo is big on fiscal stimulus). Here's Koo's take: I have had the pleasure of participating in conferences with Mr. Kuroda on two occasions. The impression I received was of a man with an excellent sense of balance who chooses his words carefully. The flip side is that his comments are often safe and predictable. Still, based on my two encounters with him and his performance as vice finance minister, he appears to be a man who listens well and is good at building consensus. I first met Mr. Kuroda nearly twenty years ago when I was invited as an instructor at a training session, and I remember a lively discussion with him about the so-called Komiya theory, which says Japanís trade surpluses are simply the result of investment and savings choices made by Japanese and foreign businesses and households. I was impressed by the fact that he did not seem to be doctrinaire and was able to engage in debate while lending an ear to the other partyís views. The other time I met him was at the Japan Dinner at Davos forum a number of years ago to which both of us had been invited to speak. His presentation was mostly an orthodox description of Japanís economy, while I talked about Japanís balance sheet recession. Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn was also at the dinner that night and provided strong support for my theory by discussing his companyís experience in paying down debt at a time of zero interest rates. So while the extent of Mr. Kurodaís understanding of balance sheet recession theory is unclear, he has at the very least heard the term. And this is probably more important from Koo, given Abe's desire to see the Bank of Japan act aggressively. I would be remiss if I did not mention that Mr. Kuroda is also a dedicated (and possibly dangerous) advocate of reflationary policies. However, I suspect that as the pragmatic Mr. Kuroda comes to realize that the monetary transmission mechanisms required for reflation (see below) are no longer operative during a balance sheet recessionóa time when the private sector is seeking to minimize debtóhe is unlikely to push ahead with truly reckless monetary accommodation. Koo doesn't believe that aggressive reflationary monetary policies will work, which is why he ads the parenthetical "and possibly dangerous" but reflation is what Shinzo Abe is all about, so the pick makes perfect sense.
">Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderIn his latest Bedtime With BTIG note that got sent out last night, Dan Greenhaus discusses the age old question: Is this a Fed driven market? His answer: Kind of. He points do the soothing effects of Bernanke on the hill the last couple days for the quick reversal in panic that we saw earlier this week. But he also points to something a lot more powerful than Bernanke: Corporate profits. Check out this stat: †While there is no doubt that Fed support has been a crucial, crucial support mechanism for higher equity values and economic improvement since first being utilized in late 2008, one cannot ignore (nor, admittedly, separate out) the improvement in the earnings environment. Our good friend Larry Kudlow is fond of saying that profits are the motherís milk of stock prices. In that regard, the S&amp;P 500ís four quarter trailing EPS is currently $98 or so. At the end of March 2009, that number was $43 or so meaning EPS has more than doubled, 129% higher today than at the equity marketís bottom. Guess how much the S&amp;P 500 is up since then? 128%. We suppose this isnít all about the Federal Reserve after all. Anytime someone points to a Fed driven rally, this is an easy datapoint to counter with.
ShutterstockIt's going to be another important day for economic data. Via Calculated Risk, here are the four key ones. ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM ET, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for claims to decrease to 360 thousand from 362 thousand last week. ‚Ä¢ Also at 8:30 AM, Q4 GDP (second estimate). This is the second estimate of GDP from the BEA. The consensus is that real GDP increased 0.5% annualized in Q4, revised up from a negative 0.1% in the advance report. ‚Ä¢ At 9:45 AM, the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index for February. The consensus is for a decrease to 55.0, down from 55.6 in January. ‚Ä¢ At 11:00 AM, the Kansas City Fed regional Manufacturing Surveyfor February will be released. This is the last of the regional surveys for February, and most of the surveys have indicated expansion. The GDP at 8:30 will be particularly interesting, due to the fact that it came in negative on first pass. If it switches to positive, it will likely get less attention than the first one.
Alan Crowhurst/Getty ImagesMarkets continue to act as though the Italy-inspired Monday panic never happened. After the Dow hit a brand new post-crisis high yesterday, Japan turned in another gigantic session. The Nikkei gained 2.7%. China also had a good day, adding 2.2%. In the meantime, Europe is modestly higher, as is the US. Watch out. We get our first revision to Q4 GDP today. Remember the first version of this number came in at a shocking -0.1%. We'll see if it flips positive today.
