Steve Snodgrass via www.flickr.com creative commonsCOMPANIES are the building blocks of the modern world. America has some 6m of them employing 120m people and controlling $30 trillion-worth of assets. Emerging markets are catching up: the number of Chinese companies increased by 80% in 2004-08. Globally 3m new firms are registered each year. But are companies so good for the world? Enron and Lehman Brothers were not. Corporate debacles have scorched the global economy: the IMF calculates that the financial crisis produced total bank losses of $2 trillion. They have also led to a collapse of trust in business: a recent survey of trust in the professions found that businessmen and bankers came last, along with politicians. Why have so many prominent companies gone up in flames? In a new book, "Firm Commitment", Colin Mayer, of Oxford University's Sa√Ød Business School, takes a familiar argument--that shareholders have too much power--and gives it new life. The idea that the main function of companies is to boost shareholder value rests on a misunderstanding of the nature of the firm, he says. Companies are not owned by shareholders in the way that ordinary goods are owned. They are artificial persons with a distinct legal identity. Companies are not just devices for lowering transaction costs or bundling contracts together. They are devices for getting groups of people--workers and managers as well as investors--to commit themselves to long-term goals. The doctrine of shareholder primacy is particularly dangerous when combined with dispersed ownership, he believes. Dispersed ownership (which often occurs when founding families sell shares to finance growth) leads to a separation between ownership and control. Managers exploit this separation to feather their own nests. Owners respond by relying on two devices--shareholder activism or the market for corporate control. Mr Mayer concedes that dispersed shareholding produces benefits. It provides companies with liquidity, extends the role of professional managers and limits the ability of founding families to mess things up. But he worries that the costs are also mounting. The risk of a hostile takeover often reduces a company's incentive to invest for the long-term. The temptation to trade firms rather than build them can hollow out even great institutions: witness the demise of Britain's once-mighty General Electric Company (GEC). The ease with which traders can buy and sell shares means the fate of companies can be determined by people with no stake in their long-term success. Roger Carr, the chairman of Cadbury, a British food firm bought by Kraft after a bloody takeover battle, noted that "individuals controlling shares which they had owned for only a few days or weeks determined the destiny of a company that had been built over almost 200 years." Can anything be done to limit the damage done by such predatory behaviour? Mr Mayer thinks corporate social responsibility (CSR) is just hot air unless it changes the financial incentives of people who run companies. He worries that government regulation, at best, treats diverse organisations as if they are the same and, at worst, does more harm than good: the Bubble Act of 1720, introduced after the collapse of the South Sea Company, delayed the development of the joint-stock company by over a century. He is more sympathetic to a third option--building long-termism into companies' DNA. Many continental companies such as Germany's ThyssenKrupp and Bosch are owned or partly owned by foundations that are obliged to take a long view. Germany saw only three hostile takeovers between 1945 and 2000. For all the talk of the "Anglo-Saxon model", America is less wedded to shareholder power than Britain. American managers can call upon devices (such as "poison pills" and "staggered boards") that make it harder for raiders to take them over. Tech firms often issue two classes of share (voting and non-voting) so that founders can remain in charge. Google crowed that this would "make it harder for outside parties to take over or influence Google". Mr Mayer wants to go further and create a new class of companies--trust companies. These would be overseen by a board of trustees who would be charged with balancing the interests of various stakeholders and ensuring that the companies lived up to their corporate values. They would also have recourse to different classes of shares with different degrees of power. Voting rights might be linked not just to how many shares you own but also to how long you have held them. Mr Mayer's proposed cure is less persuasive than his diagnosis. Trust companies can behave as badly as shareholder-controlled ones. ThyssenKrupp, for example, was recently fined EUR103m ($127.5m) by Germany's cartel office for its role in fixing the prices of rail tracks. Mr Mayer praises the Tata Group, which is run by a trust. Fair enough, but Tata had decades to build up its war chest behind India's old trade barriers. He points out that great founders like Mayer Lehman (of Lehman Brothers) infused their firms with values that also helped them grow. Boards of trustees, being committees, are more likely to produce CSR waffle. Mr Mayer saves his argument by linking it to a wider plea for corporate pluralism. He argues that different sorts of companies are good at different things. Anglo-Saxon firms are good at making tough decisions. Continental ones are good at making long-term investments. Partnerships are good at creating loyal workforces. Policymakers often assume that one corporate form is best, and discourage others. It would be better if they fostered variety, since diverse ecosystems are much more robust. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Dave Stokes via www.flickr.com creative commonsMATTHEW YGLESIAS has a counterintuitive take that the sequester is good policy for liberals, because most of the cuts are to defence spending, which is so grossly overdeveloped at this point that its top layer is, to a first approximation, completely useless. Long story short, if you're a defense dove like me and have a nonutopian view of the domestic discretionary budget, then this looks like we're mostly talking about harmless spending cuts. It is very true that the current moment is not an optimal time to cut wasteful government spending. Given the high unemployment rate, the low and stable inflation rate, the low cost of federal borrowing, and the weird dynamics of "Evans Rule" monetary policy, I would say that 2013 is an excellent time for the federal government to waste some money on make-work military contracting gigs. But in the grand scheme of things, wasting resources on low-value programs is not a great idea, and there's more to life than timing. A counter-counterintuitive take on this would start from that last interesting sentence. Is there actually more to life than timing? What if there isn't? Put it this way: what's uniquely bad about the cuts in the sequester? What's bad about them, as Josh Barro writes, is that, because they fall abruptly and without logic, they destroy people's plans for the future. Scientists who've just completed PhDs in research-oriented disciplines on the basis of expectations about reasonably predictable levels of funding for those fields discover there'll be nothing for them to do with their degrees. People who've moved back to their homes after hurricanes, thinking they can restart their businesses, find they can't because there's no money to repair the bridges since FEMA funding was cut. The Pentagon suddenly has to figure out how to cut a fixed percentage out of every individual procurement contract, which is going to mean a lot of bizarre, fundamentally senseless last-minute craziness. And so forth. Most economic disappointments can be coped with, given time and a reasonable degree of predictability. But arbitrary cuts that fall suddenly give people no chance to adjust. To stretch the point, there's a reason why hipster local labour exchanges use the unit of "hours" as currency, a move that actually goes back to Robert Owen's National Equitable Labour Exchange in the 1830s, and why sci-fi plots like that of "Time Out" envisage the possibility of substituting time for money entirely. Or why Taylorism was seen as the apotheosis of the industrial revolution, and why "just-in-time" delivery is such a big deal in modern manufacturing. At some level raising productivity is nothing more or less than improved timing. Time is the one resource of which we have an absolutely finite amount, and people who suddenly and unpredictably break promises, undo plans, and scramble schedules are screwing up our lives in the most fundamental way possible: they are wasting our time. This doesn't entirely bear on what Mr Yglesias was saying; he was just saying that if you want big defence cuts, the sequester delivers that, even though this may not be the best time for those cuts to happen in view of the weak economy. But I think it's useful to be reminded of why cutting in an abrupt, arbitrary fashion is so much worse than cutting in a planned fashion. Life is about using your time well. Chaos is the enemy. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
www.brickunderground.comHazmat-suited Moving Right Along mover preparing to pack my things to be fumigated. See also: My new boyfriend. It's hard not to fall in love with a man who keeps you calm even when you are crying and wears a nifty suit. If my life was a movie, the foreshadowing would seem too contrived.¬† About a year ago I was diagnosed with Lyme disease and have been struggling with it. I often try to explain it to people by saying it is like having internal bed bugs.¬† Right around the same time, after I moved here to Hell‚Äôs Kitchen,¬†I got paranoid¬†that the bites I was mysteriously getting were from bed bugs and called a bed bug dog service. I recall vividly staying up all night to read¬†BrickUnderground‚Äôs own Theresa Braine‚Äôs chronicles of her bed bug disaster. ¬†Turns out I did not have bed bugs but did have a major case of paranoia combined with mosquito bites.¬† A few months later a close friend was plagued with the bloodsucking beasts. I would not see her for the eight months she dealt with them for fear I‚Äôd get them myself. She handled her situation far more calmly than I did and my nightly neurotic mantra became, ‚ÄúThey are not my bed bugs.‚Äù¬† Oddly, on my one-year anniversary in this apartment, I was in the throes of dealing with my Lyme disease, Googling the latest research studies, and out of the corner of my eye saw something crawl across my white comforter. I quickly prayed it was a roach (in no other circumstances would anyone ever pray they had a roach on their bed) only to see quite clearly it was an adult bed bug. I quickly scooped it up in my hand‚Äîthey are fast and wily‚Äîand threw it into a Ziploc and watched in horror and shock. I hadn‚Äôt thought about bed bugs in a long time and had not had any bites. I prayed it was a rogue bug but knew better than to believe it.¬† I texted my landlord that I had just found a bed bug and she texted back asking that I mail it to her so she could have it analyzed. I responded that I would be calling the bed bug dog service and have them come in the morning and then I‚Äôd mail it to her but would certainly not be wasting any time. I wanted this treated immediately!¬† I examined my mattress and saw no evidence of a problem. It was pristine as always. I then examined the underside of my box spring, trying the squelch my urge to panic, and found nothing¬†except¬†a¬†skin shedding. Evidence!¬† I called Bobby from¬†K9 Bed Bug Detectors, the bed bug guy I called last spring, and assured him this time I was not being paranoid.¬† The next morning prior to having his dog, Bruno, do his thing, Bobby inspected the apartment.¬†He immediately confirmed that the bug in the bag was indeed a bed bug.¬† He said he found another skin shedding but that there didn‚Äôt appear to be a major problem. He also said he saw bed bug ‚Äúdust‚Äù (fecal matter‚Ä¶eww!) in the corner of my bedroom by a utility closet. Then he let the dog examine. The dog systematically checked the bed area (nothing), the window side of the room and in all the drawers of furniture that resided there (nothing), the desk (nothing) and then started making signals that there were bugs in that corner by the utility closet and baseboard.¬† The dog proceeded to check the rest of the apartment and found nothing else. Bobby said he believes I caught the problem within weeks of its onset because there were no bugs in the bed, and if it had been a major infestation we'd be seeing far more signs, like blood dots on the mattress and the dog would be going crazy sniffing the bed. While obviously they were making their way from the corner utility closet to the bed (hence the one I found crawling there) they had not actually taken up residence YET.¬† He told me to immediately get¬†mattress and boxspring encasments at Bed Bath and Beyond¬†and not take them off for two years. Because my mattress was pristine there was no reason to toss it, so he said the encasement would prevent them from taking residence in it/boxspring and if there were any eggs in there they'd be trapped and die after a maximum of two years. He was nice enough to call my landlord and implore her to treat immediately‚Äîand of course pay for it‚Äîand she agreed. I was so relieved there was no wait while she had her own PCO check out the place.¬† He immediately sprayed around the perimeter of the bed and the other furniture, particularly the offensive utility closet. He gave me strict instructions to take out everything from all closets and drawers and heat them in a dryer on high for 45 minutes. This would also include any throw rugs, curtains, bedding, etc.¬† Then he told me I‚Äôd have to¬†Packtite¬†all my books, files and papers, and seal everything once it had been heated in huge Ziploc bags.¬† I was lucky, he said, that even though he‚Äôd need to treat the whole apartment, I would not have to heat and pack things in the other rooms,¬†because the bugs were isolated to one small area of the bedroom and the dog could find no evidence of them in any other room. I was doubly lucky that my primary closet is¬†a bedroom I converted to a walk-in closet¬†and dressing room far from my actual bedroom. Thankfully I would not have to heat and pack every coat, shoe, purse, dress, etc.¬† He also shared some bed bug trivia: He has been keeping bugs in a bag for over 18 months without any feeding and they are shockingly still alive; he has kept them in his truck overnight for days in below-freezing temperatures and yet they endure.¬† I liked him as much as I did the first time I met him--he was informative and, even more important, at a time like this, compassionate and patient. Thankfully Theresa (of¬†Bedbugged-fame) came to my rescue and was nice enough to lend me her Packtite. But the more I thought about it, the more I knew I could not prep this apartment myself or even with the help of friends in a week while being chronically ill.¬† I set about to find a bed bug prep service and interviewed one who said she‚Äôd come to evaluate at 5pm. Prior to her scheduled visit she gave me a rough estimate of $1,500 to prepare the room after I described the number of books and items in furniture that would have to be heated and sealed.¬† Because I do not have a dryer in my own apartment or building she‚Äôd have to send out all the laundry at a rate of nearly $2 per pound. I didn‚Äôt initially realize that heating clothing items did not get factored into her estimate. I estimated that I might have several hundred pounds of clothing, bedding, etc. to be heated.¬† I asked a few more questions prior to her set-up visit and she said they only vacuumed books, not actually heat-treat them via Packtite. They could then seal them and advised you to leave them all sealed for eight months because she claims bugs can only go without a meal for that long.¬† This worried me because my PCO said that: 1) vacuuming books does absolutely nothing to kill eggs/bugs and 2) even simply bagging them for eight months is not safe because bugs can go far longer without a meal. ¬†I Googled on my own and read through¬†Theresa‚Äôs column¬†yet again; nothing I read made me feel easier. I told her what my PCO explained, and she canceled our appointment saying we clearly have differing views about what is safe.¬† I then discovered a moving company called¬†Moving Right Along, which works closely with¬†Bed Bug Fumigation Specialists. Here's how it works: Moving Right Along¬†put my stuff in one of their containers that looked like a moving truck and the container was delivered to¬†Bed Bug Fumigation Specialists¬†to be sealed and fumigated with Vikane gas overnight.¬† Moving Right Along then moved the container to their facility where it will live for 30 days (after which they'll move and unpack it all). The pack, move and storage from¬†Moving Right Along¬†for one 200 sq. ft. room of stuff plus a couch was $2,500, which, in light of the fact I was going to write up the whole experience for this column, they agreed to waive. The fumigation of the pod was $700 plus tax via Bed Bug Fumigation Specialists. I knew I would need a ton of huge Ziploc bags in a rush. I needed them the following day and Soap.com proved to be the fastest and cheapest. I ordered two boxes each size: ¬†XXL bags (the size of a garment bag), XL and L. They arrived the next day. Also, prior to my PCO coming, I still had to heat about eight loads of things that I would need for the month. The laundromat doesn‚Äôt allow users to only dry clothing, but I came equipped with a diversionary tactic.¬† My friends and I were able to score dryers for the mandatory 45-minute cycle. They helped me upstairs with the bags and then we organized everything into sealed Ziploc bags and I integrated them out of the bedroom and into my master closet far from it.¬† The next day my PCO returned to do his first comprehensive treatment. He let me stay in the apartment but asked me to step out of the rooms he was treating, so I didn‚Äôt see exactly what he was spraying but know there was a light coating of a powdery substance around the perimeter of the room, bed, and remaining furniture.¬† He said to sit tight and he‚Äôd be back in seven days to do it again.¬† He also said he is working with my landlord to bring the dog back to check the apartment above me and commercial space below me to see if there are bugs in other areas of the building. He thinks, however, I caught it very quickly and that because the dog barked in that one corner‚Äîwhere library books, ironically about Lyme disease, were placed from the library about three weeks before‚Äîit is fairly isolated.¬† I am thankful I have never had any bites (this must be, he explains, that I am not allergic to them so my body does not react with the telltale itchy ugly welts) and that I have not seen another bug after the first or any sign of them. It helps me to delude myself that everything, at least externally, is just fine.¬† See all¬†Hell's Bitchen.¬† Related posts: Bedbugged! How to tell a bed bug from an impostor About that bed bug insurance bill.... Bedbugged! The perfect exterminator Finally, a breakthrough in bed bug detection More posts by Kelly Kreth: 15 things I've learned from 'Million Dollar Listing NY' so far The 20 deadly sins NYC rental agents should never commit (but do) Escape from the UES: Goodbye douchebaggery, hello Hell's Kitchen Dear Neighbor: I am your worst nightmare Living next to a bridge &amp; tunnel club: KY Jelly wrestling, all-night noise, no regrets - See more at: http://www.brickunderground.com/blog/2013/02/my_worst_nightmare_becomes_reality_aka_the_arrival_of_real_bed_bugs#sthash.ExABSDeK.dpuf
CNBCWarren Buffett released his latest annual letter to¬†Berkshire Hathaway¬†(NYSE:¬†BRK-B¬†¬†) shareholders on Friday. You can¬†read the whole thing here, but I pulled out some of the best quotes below. On performance: "For the ninth time in 48 years, Berkshire's percentage increase in book value was less than the S&amp;P's percentage gain (a calculation that includes dividends as well as price appreciation). In eight of those nine years, it should be noted, the S&amp;P had a gain of 15% or more. We do better when the wind is in our face. To date, we've never had a five-year period of underperformance, having managed 43 times to surpass the S&amp;P over such a stretch." On Berkshire's future leaders: "Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, our new investment managers, have proved to be smart, models of integrity, helpful to Berkshire in many ways beyond portfolio management, and a perfect cultural fit. We hit the jackpot with these two. In 2012 each outperformed the S&amp;P 500 by double-digit margins. They left me in the dust as well. ...Todd and Ted are young and will be around to manage Berkshire's massive portfolio long after Charlie and I have left the scene. You can rest easy when they take over." On investing: "There was a lot of hand-wringing last year among CEOs who cried 'uncertainty' when faced with capital allocation decisions (despite many of their businesses having enjoyed record levels of both earnings and cash). At Berkshire, we didn't share their fears, instead spending a record $9.8 billion on plant and equipment in 2012, about 88% of it in the United States. That's 19% more than we spent in 2011, our previous high. Charlie and I love investing large sums in worthwhile projects, whatever the pundits are saying ... We will keep our foot to the floor and will almost certainly set still another record for capital expenditures in 2013. Opportunities abound in America." On confidence: "A thought for my fellow CEOs: Of course, the immediate future is uncertain; America has faced the unknown since 1776. It's just that sometimes people focus on the myriad of uncertainties that always exist while at other times they ignore them (usually because the recent past has been uneventful). American business will do fine over time. And stocks will do well just as certainly, since their fate is tied to business performance. Periodic setbacks will occur, yes, but investors and managers are in a game that is heavily stacked in their favor. (The Dow Jones Industrials advanced from 66 to 11,497 in the 20th¬†Century, a staggering 17,320% increase that materialized despite four costly wars, a Great Depression and many recessions. And don't forget that shareholders received substantial dividends throughout the century as well.)" On the recent Heinz deal: "We couldn't be in better company. Jorge Paulo is a longtime friend of mine and an extraordinary manager. His group and Berkshire will each contribute about $4 billion for common equity in the holding company. Berkshire will also invest $8 billion in preferred shares that pay a 9% dividend. The preferred has two other features that materially increase its value: at some point it will be redeemed at a significant premium price and the preferred also comes with warrants permitting us to buy 5% of the holding company's common stock for a nominal sum. Our total investment of about $12 billion soaks up much of what Berkshire earned last year. But we still have plenty of cash and are generating more at a good clip. So it's back to work; Charlie and I have again donned our safari outfits and resumed our search for elephants." On market timing: "Since the basic game is so favorable, Charlie and I believe it's a terrible mistake to try to dance in and out of it based upon the turn of tarot cards, the predictions of 'experts,' or the ebb and flow of business activity. The risks of being out of the game are huge compared to the risks of being in it." On the competition: "There are a lot of ways to lose money in insurance, and the industry never ceases searching for new ones." On a coming reckoning: "Insurance earnings are now benefiting from 'legacy' bond portfolios that deliver much higher yields than will be available when funds are reinvested during the next few years -- and perhaps for many years beyond that. Today's bond portfolios are, in effect, wasting assets. Earnings of insurers will be hurt in a significant way as bonds mature and are rolled over." On diversification: "If the insurance industry should experience a $250 billion loss from some megacatastrophe -- a loss about triple anything it has ever experienced -- Berkshire as a whole would likely record a significant profit for the year because it has so many streams of earnings. All other major insurers and reinsurers would meanwhile be far in the red, with some facing insolvency." On valuation: "Of course, a business with terrific economics can be a bad investment if the price paid is excessive. We have paid substantial premiums to net tangible assets for most of our businesses, a cost that is reflected in the large figure we show for intangible assets. Overall, however, we are getting a decent return on the capital we have deployed in this sector. Furthermore, the intrinsic value of the businesses, in aggregate, exceeds their carrying value by a good margin. Even so, the difference between intrinsic value and carrying value in the insurance and regulated industry segments is far greater. It is there that the huge winners reside." On risk: "Charlie and I believe in operating with many redundant layers of liquidity, and we avoid any sort of obligation that could drain our cash in a material way. That reduces our returns in 99 years out of 100. But we will survive in the 100th while many others fail. And we will sleep well in all 100." On share repurchases: "Indeed, disciplined repurchases are the surest way to use funds intelligently: It's hard to go wrong when you're buying dollar bills for 80¬¢ or less. We explained our criteria for repurchases in last year's report and, if the opportunity presents itself, we will buy large quantities of our stock. We originally said we would not pay more than 110% of book value, but that proved unrealistic. Therefore, we increased the limit to 120% in December when a large block became available at about 116% of book value."¬† More on BerkshireWarren Buffett's long track record of success has made him one of the best investors of all time. With the Buffett at the helm, Berkshire Hathaway has¬†grown book value per share at a compounded annual rate of 19.8% for nearly 50 years! Despite an incredible historical track record, investors have to understand the key issues to watch moving forward. To help investors, the Fool's resident Berkshire Hathaway expert, Joe Magyer, has created this¬†premium research report¬†on the company. Inside, you'll receive ongoing updates as key news hits, as well as reasons to both buy and sell the stock. Claim a copy by¬†clicking here now.
The Geneva Motor Show starts next week, and like at the Paris Motor Show in September, automakers will do their best to put on a brave face as they deal with the catastrophic state of the European auto market. Among the most troubled players is PSA Peugeot CitroÎn, Europe's second-largest automaker, which posted a stunning $6.7 billion loss for 2012. Its group sales fell 16 percent in November of last year, and its market share dropped to 10.9 percent, from 11.7 percent. According to the Detroit Free Press, PSA makes two-thirds of cars bought in France, where new registrations hit a 15-year low last year. Things are not looking up in 2013. The automaker has announced it will cut nearly 10,000 jobs (by not replacing workers who leave), and it will close a major factory outside Paris. In April, it sold its Paris headquarters, for $327 million, to lower its debt, Bloomberg reported. To save itself, PSA has come up with two new strategies: Sell fewer cars for more money and capitalize on markets outside Europe. The 2008 Peugeot's new fuel-efficient urban crossover vehicle, the 2008, is the car to watch at Geneva. Based on on the successful 208, the 2008 is "key to this year's product lineup," International Communication Area Manager Thomas Merchant told Business Insider. "It completes Peugeotís product offensive within the B segment and provides the Marque a new level of international dynamism." The car also encapsulates everything Peugeot is trying to do. PSAThe interior of the 2008.Hopes At Home PSA cannot give up on the European market, especially after receiving the first installment of $9 billion in state aid earlier this month. "Europe still remains a vital market to the brand," Thomas Merchant says. In a January 7 press release announcing the launch of the 2008, PSA said it wants to expand its "deep manufacturing roots in France" (despite cutting jobs there) and move its products upmarket. The upmarket bet is a long shot but not doomed, argues Mark Phelan at the Detroit Free Press. He points to one victory as a ray of hope: CitroÎn created DS, a sub-brand of small premium-priced cars that use the same underpinnings as its regular cars but offer more style and features. DS has been one of the European industry's few recent successes. While the French auto market collapsed in 2012, sales there by Audi, BMW, and Mercedes-Benz actually grew, according to the AFP. If Peugeot could produce cars at that level, it could see some of the growth. But, as Phelan notes, "Peugeot wouldn't be in this fix if folks were inclined to pay top euro for its car." (Better) Hopes Abroad PSA's year over year sales outside of Europe are up. In 2009, it sold 24 percent of its vehicles outside Europe. In 2011, that number climbed to 33 percent. By 2015, PSA wants to sell half of its cars in those markets. The release trumpeting the 2008 reinforces that desire to move abroad. The 2008 was designed to appeal to Chinese and South American buyers, will be built in China and Brazil as well as France, and "symbolizes PSA Peugeot CitroÎn's strategy to expand its international presence." As a bonus, production in China and Brazil is not hampered by the level of worker protections and pay PSA must provide in France. Competition will be tough ó just about every automaker sees Asia and South America as potential cash cows ó but at least people there are still buying cars. Hopefully for Peugeot, they'll want the 2008.
Michael Seto / BIGroupon's Andrew Mason released a very honest exit letter yesterday after getting fired as CEO, where he talked about weight gain and Battletoads. He began the letter by saying, "I've decided that I'd like to spend more time with my family. Just kidding ‚Äî I was fired today." It may have been a controversial style of saying "goodbye," but it isn't entirely unique. Who could forget Greg Smith's op-ed piece in the NYT last year calling Goldman Sachs a "toxic and destructive" workplace?¬†And Smith isn't the first banking executive to quit using the NYT's op-ed page either.¬†We've compiled 14 epic quitting examples of all time.
WXYZ screenshot One of the most common and persuasive arguments against gun control is that guns offer a means with which good guys can protect themselves from bad guys. In practice, unfortunately, the guns that good guys own to protect themselves from bad guys too often end up killing the good guys' kids or wives or the good guys themselves (either via suicide, accident, or, in some cases, because they're grabbed by the bad guys and used against the good guys). Or, as in the case of Florida teen Trayvon Martin, the guns kill people who the good guys think are bad guys but who aren't actually bad guys. But, sometimes, the guns actually do what gun-control opponents say they do. Earlier this winter, at a high school in Detroit, a 70-year-old basketball coach was walking two of his players (girls) across the parking lot to their cars. According to WXYZ, an ABC News affiliate, the coach and players were approached by two young men, both of whom had attended the high school and one of whom had recently been expelled. One of the men reportedly pulled out a gun and grabbed the coach's necklace. The coach, a reserve police officer, was licensed to carry a concealed handgun, and he was carrying it. He pulled it out and shot both of the attackers, killing one of them. The young man who died was a 16-year-old named Michael Scott. The boy with him was a 15-year-old. Neither the coach nor the girls were harmed. Now, this is still a sad story ‚Äî two teenagers got shot and one got killed ‚Äî but at least it was the bad guys who got shot instead of the good guys. So, in this instance, a gun owned for "protection" worked. That's why gun-control opponents have seized on this and other similar stories to support their cause. As the nation continues to debate gun control, however, it's worth noting a few things about this incident: The bottom line is that no mainstream politician in the current gun control debate is talking about banning the kind of gun used in this incident. And, unfortunately, the reason this incident has gained such notice among those who are against gun control is that it is a relatively rare incident. If you have good statistics on the number of incidents in which guns have successfully enabled good guys to protect themselves from bad guys, please email me. I will be happy to publish them. UPDATE: Since publishing this post, I have heard from lots of other gun owners (I'm one) who say that good guys use guns constantly to protect themselves from bad guys. Some cite a figure from an old study saying that guns are "used" for protection 2.5 million times a year. As David Frum explains here, that study is old and highly flawed, in part because it depended on a small sample of individuals reporting their activity from memory and because the "use" of a gun was not defined. Another study puts incidents of gun uses for protection per year in the late 1980s at about 60,000. A 1994 study found that, in 1992, there were 82,500 incidents in which the victims of violent crime used guns to defend themselves. Importantly, however, that total included police officers. In the same year, there were 931,000 violent crimes committed using guns. Meanwhile, the FBI keeps statistics on "justifiable homicide" by private citizens. In 2011, there were 260 "justifiable homicides" in the U.S., 201 of which were by guns. Meanwhile, in 2010, according to data cited in Wikipedia, there were 19,392 firearm-related suicide deaths and 11,078 firearm-related homicide deaths. These statistics suggest that guns are successfully used to kill or victimize good guys a lot more often than they are successfully used to protect good guys. SEE ALSO: I'm Just Not Ready To Accept That We Have To Have Gun Massacres All The Time
mi2gIt seems like ages ago that the Italian election result caused markets to spasm and volatility to surge. In fact, it was just on Monday, and by the end of the week, the event had largely been forgotten by the global markets (although Italian markets continue to underperform, as headlines reveal the difficulty the parties will have going forward in their attempt to form a government). But it would be a mistake to think the significance of the elections is just old news. To recap what happened: The big "winner" of the election was Beppe Grillo, the populist, anti-bank comedian, who took nearly 25% of the vote. Between him and Berlusconi, anti-austerity forces took over 50% (!) of the vote. Since the current stability in Europe is premised on a bargain whereby the ECB promises to backstop government bond markets in exchange for austerity, this massive rejection of austerity is a shot straight to the heart of how Europe has managed to calm its crisis. In a note published after the election, Citi's Tina M. Fordham wrote ominously: The outcome also reflects the collision between two macro trends we have long warned of: the rise of anti-establishment sentiment and the increased skepticism towards European obligations in the midst of a slow-growth or no-growth economic situation. The subsequent political gridlock will raise concerns both in markets and among European political leaders, with Italy's prospects for fiscal consolidation and economic growth diminished. It also marks the end to a two year electoral trend of majority victories by mainstream opposition parties. These sentiments are echoed by a great piece in the FT by Mark Mazower (via Krugman) which warns that between austerity and aloof technocrats, Italy has exposed a crisis of democracy, which only seems to be getting worse in Europe. The response from Brussels and the creditor north to all this has been robotically unimaginative ó to insist that the debtors, like the little fish in Finding Nemo, must just keep on going. And so they may ó for a while. It is possible that southern Europe will give the Germans until the autumn to come around to a new approach. But toleration for austerity is unlikely to last much beyond then. A moment of truth is surely approaching. Joachim Gauck, the German president, has called for a new debate on Europe, and suggested that its future lies in reviving the idea of a commonwealth of nations. But if such a debate is to go anywhere, it will have to confront the question of monetary union. For Europe may be approaching a stark choice: giving up the euro; or keeping it and seeing the political crisis spin out of control. The next German election is coming up in September (and it's possible that we'll see another Italian election, then, too, depending on the stability of any new government that can be formed). Europe is in the mist of a clear economic tragedy. The longer it goes on, the more likely we'll see a full-on political tragedy as well. For more on Europe's economic tragedy, see here &gt;
Friend of the site, Matt Busigin, has a fantastic post up on his blog Macrofugue titled Welcome To Peak Capitalism, which explores the inevitable economic changes that will come about as the number of employed workers (as a share of the total population) declines due to demographic reasons. He calls it "Peak Capitalism" because we're inevitably going to have more relationships than just the capitalist/laborer, due to the fact that we'll have so many retirees who will need ongoing sustenance. In his piece, Busigin introduces a twist on a very common chart. You've probably seen this chart many times, which shows wages declining as a percent of GDP over the last few decades. FRED But things look a tad different when you look at wages PLUS government transfer payments (predominantly entitlement programs) as a share of GDP. FRED Currently, wages plus transfer payments as a share of GDP is right in line with the long-term average of 58 percent, as Busigin notes. Thus we're not quite in a world where capitalists squeeze more and more value out of the system at the expense of labor. Instead ... Thus we get to the fundamental reality: capitalists have been compensated for serving the poor and the elderly. The system has worked for everyone. The government has brokered a deal whereby capitalists accumulate capital by providing the infirm and the retired working class sustenance. Perhaps you would change the proportions of profit and transfer payments, but the basic system of transactions and incentives has been proved out. The facilitating mechanism is the Federal government‚Äôs ability to add new financial assets (money and Treasuries) into the system. That's not to say there isn't an inequality issue. Net worth and income for top-quintile families has grown far faster than everyone else, but by and large the system works. Through increased productivity, companies extract more and more from their workers. Then the workers are paid back in retirement by the creation of financial assets. Read Matt's full post here &gt;
Last night, Obama signed an executive order, bringing the dreaded "sequestration" into effect. That sequestration will lop off $85 billion from government spending this year, via across-the-board cuts to defense and every domestic agency. Economically, the austerity is dumb (because the economy is still weak) and pragmatically, the across-the-board nature of the cuts is a silly way to cut spending. And yet, for now, sequestration is here. What makes it really pathetic is this chart, which our Walter Hickey recently published, and comes from the Bipartisan Policy Center. It shows that there's virtually no change to any of our debt dynamic metrics as a result of these cuts. Yes, the cuts might reduce deficits by a little bit (although they might not, if the economy slows too much) but the trajectory of things is virtually identical. Bipartisan Policy Center Even for avowed budget cutters, the win is Pyrrhic. As NYT/CNBC's John Harwood tweeted this morning. Rs won lower discretionary spending levels than Obama/Ds want. But cost is greater: no entitlement reform AT ALL. Was achievable. So we got these dumb cuts that don't do anything about current debt dynamics. SEE ALSO: Barack Obama: I am not a dictator &gt;
CNBC's "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer has also made a YouTube video for the latest meme craze ó the "Harlem Shake".† Check it out:† 
Warren Buffett is known as the world's most famous "value investor," but that term is not well understood. In his latest letter to shareholders (.pdf), Buffett includes a great paragraph explaining that value is not synonymous for cheap. More than 50 years ago, Charlie told me that it was far better to buy a wonderful business at a fair price than to buy a fair business at a wonderful price. Despite the compelling logic of his position, I have sometimes reverted to my old habit of bargain-hunting, with results ranging from tolerable to terrible. Fortunately, my mistakes have usually occurred when I made smaller purchases. Our large acquisitions have generally worked out well and, in a few cases, more than well. As Charlie Munger evidently taught Buffett, it's better to buy high-quality businesses for a fair amount than finding assets at bargain basement prices. But what does this mean in practice? Coincidentally, Jason Zweig has a great column in the WSJ today on some new academic work that attempts to define "quality" in a stock. The study shows that yes, quality stocks do tend to outperform. Research to be published soon in the prestigious Journal of Financial Economics by Robert Novy-Marx, a finance professor at the University of Rochester, shows that bargain-priced "quality" stocks outperformed the overall market by more than four percentage points annually between 1963 and 2011. This stunning margin is even higher than that earned over the same period by traditionally measured cheap "value" stocks, but usually with less severe losses in market downturns. Quality also tends to do well when value does poorly ‚Äî and vice versa. Novy-Marx has already done a lot of published research in this area, which you can see here on his webpage. In his most recent paper (.pdf) he explains how to define "quality" and the benefits of using such a filter: Novy-Marx (2012) shows, however, that a simple quality metric, gross profits-to-assets, has roughly as much power predicting the relative performance of different stocks as tried-and-true value measures like book-to-price. Buying profitable firms and selling unprofitable firms, where profitability is measured by the difference between a firm's total revenues and the costs of the goods or services it sells, yields a significant gross profitability premium. While analysts spend a lot of time thinking about bottom line earnings, and to a lesser extent free cash flow and earnings before interest and deductions (EBIT), empirically gross profitability, which appears almost at the top of the income statement, is a much better predictor of a firm‚Äôs future stock performance. So what does this mean in practice? It helps explain the amazing performance of a stock like Amazon, as Zweig goes on to note in his column today. Over the past four quarters, for instance, Amazon.com AMZN generated $61.1 billion in revenues. Its cost of goods sold, or basic expenses, amounted to $44.3 billion, leaving gross profits of $16.8 billion on total assets of $32.6 billion. But, largely because the company spent nearly $14 billion on R&amp;D and marketing, its reported net income was negative $39 million. Amazon is one of the most controversial stocks in the world, because it's price-to-earnings ratio has always been sky high. It's currently trading at a nosebleed 180x forward earnings. But it's one of the highest quality companies in the world, generating incredible gross profits relative to its assets, and the stock has had an amazing run because of it. For more on Novy-Marx's research on quality investing, see his work here &gt;
untergeek/flickrOn Friday, Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder announced a state of emergency in deficit-plagued Detroit and would move to appoint a city manager to take control of the city's finances. It's a bad situation. But it's not the first time in American history something like this has happened. We went to look at six infamous moments where major American cities ceded control of their operations to their states. In most cases, the cities had no recourse to bankruptcy. In one case, there was a war on. If there is any lesson, it's that cities are incapable of learning from their sisters' mistakes. So this list will almost certainly need to be updated in the future.
Recently we posted a set of Uzi pictures that a reader sent us. The reader bought the weapon at a gun show, and as far as we know followed all state and federal laws. The response from other readers was explosive. At least one commenter claimed he was writing the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms to complain.  Well, we have now heard from the gun-buyer again. He says his IP address is now blocked from visiting gun and ammunition websites from his phone and home computers.  He has had no visits by law enforcement. But he thinks the government has found him and is now blocking him. The government does not centrally control the Internet, so this seems unlikely. But assuming the reader remains unable to access weapons sites, it will be interesting to figure out what is really going on. Most likely, if anyone is "blocking" the reader, it's his Internet Service Provider. (But even that would raise some interesting questions ... ) Here's a screenshot from his phone.† Robert Johnson
Early last month, Fed Governor Jeremy Stein gave a speech titled Overheating in Credit Markets: Origins, Measurement, and Policy Responses that raised the question of whether or not we might be seeing a bubble, and if so what might be done about it. You've probably heard a lot of talk about the aggressive lengths that money managers are going to to "reach for yield" in the context of this ultra low-rates environment. Stein didn't sound too fearful yet, but the overall concern is that we could be setting up another credit bubble, just like before the recent crash. In the latest version of their US Interest Rates Strategist letter, Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart and Matthew Hornbach look at the scene in corporate credit and determine that the market might be "modestly rich" rather than straight-up "overheated." Three charts from their work stand out, that nicely call into question the idea of a bubble. First, although junk bond (or high-yield) yields are at record lows, actual spreads (where those yields are relative to risk-free Treasuries) remain well off their lowest levels. The chart is a little bit noisy for the unfamiliar, but the line to watch here is the green line, which shows the average high-yield spread, or the average difference between what high-yield credit pays and what risk-free Treasuries pay. The current difference is about 500 basis points, well above the less then 300 basis points that we saw pre-crisis. Morgan Stanley The next chart shows what companies are doing with the proceeds of their high-yield borrowing. Whereas in 2007, high-yield debt issuance was going to things like leveraged buyouts and other acquisitions, these days the proceeds are going overwhelmingly to refinance old debt, which is just really prudent financial management. Morgan Stanley And then finally, the underlying condition of high-yield debt issuers is in better shape these days. They have more cash relative to debt, suggesting that their credits are fundamentally safer. Morgan Stanley None of this is to suggest that there aren't causes for concern. And you should read Jeremy Stein's speech (here) but the evidence of a raging bubble in this space has to be tempered by signs that prices aren't totally out of whack, and issuers of high-yield debt aren't going crazy. SEE ALSO: The scariest chart in the world &gt;
Gold investors have endured a pretty painful sell-off since September, watching prices fall more than 12 percent since then to today's levels. The chart below, via JPMorgan, shows the latest decline in what has become a sideways market since gold peaked in 2011. JPMorgan, Bloomberg The real bummer for those hoping for a quick turnaround, though, is seasonality. As JPMorgan analyst John Bridges notes, "Gold rarely performs in Q2." Below is a month-by-month breakdown of how gold performed in 2011, how it's done over the last five years, and how it's done over the last 10 years on average. (The latter measure does a good job capturing the entirety of the latest bull market in gold.) JPMorgan, Bloomberg Of course, before we even get to Q2, there's March ñ which the chart indicates has been one of the worst months of the year for gold over the past ten years. This doesn't necessarily conflict with what the gold bulls are saying, though. UBS analyst Julien Garran, for example, predicts a "major gold rally" starting in Q3.
Ol.V!er/flickrYesterday, Scott Adams, the creator of world-renowned comic-strip "Dilbert," published a blog post predicting a 20 percent drop-off in financial markets and said stock movements were little more than a conspiracy among Wall Street's elite. We were a bit surprised to see a cartoonist making a very specific call about a forthcoming "correction." So we reached out to him to clarify his remarks, and he was kind enough to respond via email.† I'm glad you had the wisdom to get a cartoonist's opinion on global financial markets.††The 20% estimate is based on the fact that 20 is a big round number and more likely to happen than 30%. I don't like to over-think these things.††My reasoning is that the people at the highest levels of finance are brilliant people who chose a profession with the credibility of astrology. And they know it. Then they sell their advice to people who don't know it. So that's your cast of characters.††Now consider that the characters - who are literally geniuses in many cases -have an immense financial motive, opportunity, and a near-zero risk of getting caught. How do you think that plays out? We can only give a guess of the odds that the market is being manipulated. So I ask myself: How often does the fox leave the hen house because he feels that taking an egg would be wrong?†If you have a different answer from mine, I applaud your faith in human nature.† There you go. So there you go...
With Bernanke having appeared on Capitol Hill this week, there's been a fresh wave of talk about when the Fed would "exit" its aggressive easing, and what impact that would have on stocks. But we like to remind people that while people often strongly associate the really with the Fed's generosity, the relationship between market performance and real-world economics is very strong. As we just posted, there is a strong correlation between stocks and initial jobless claims. In a note out yesterday, UBS floor guy Art Cashin drew attention to a recent note from BTIG's Dan Greenhaus (one that we actually liked as well) that shows the sweet relationship between stocks and earnings. Again: It's all about the fundamentals. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Move Over Mr. Gillette, This Guy's Got A Sharper Razor ñ As you probably recall from sixth grade Epistemology class, Occam's Razor was the concept, and or, a process of keeping philosophic and other proofs as basic and simple as possible.† As you further recall, it was based on a principle set down by William of Ockham around 1340 (actually similar concepts showed up among various philosophers going all the way back to Aristotle and beyond).As your particular version of Sister Herman Joseph probably taught you, Occam's Razor had you shave away superfluous and erroneous aspects of a proof until you were down to its simple necessary roots.We were reminded of Occam's Razor Wednesday night by a paragraph in a note by our friend, the always insightful, Dan Greenhaus, Chief Global Strategist over at BTIG.† After our having spent days, even weeks watching TV pundits call the stock market a creature of the Fed or currency markets and all manner of things, Dan's note struck a chord.† Here's what Dan wrote: While there is no doubt that Fed support has been a crucial, crucial support mechanism for higher equity values and economic improvement since first being utilized in late 2008, one cannot ignore (nor, admittedly, separate out) the improvement in the earnings environment. Our good friend Larry Kudlow is fond of saying that profits are the motherís milk of stock prices. In that regard, the S&amp;P 500ís four quarter trailing EPS is currently $98 or so. At the end of March 2009, that number was $43 or so meaning EPS has more than doubled, 129% higher today than at the equity marketís bottom. Guess how much the S&amp;P 500 is up since then? 128%. We suppose this isnít all about the Federal Reserve after all. Earnings up 129%.† S&amp;P up 128%.† Simple.† Neat.† Even elegant.† We think Occam would have smiled.† We know we certainly did.
flicrk: Jose KevoWall Street is coming back slowly, and that means that competition for a bigger piece of the pie is hotter than ever. To figure out who's winning that war, Bloomberg Markets Magazine put together a list of the of the best paid investment banks measured by the fees they earn. This year, JP Morgan Chase made the top of a list. It was the top investment bank in debt and equity fees overall. The bank's mergers and¬†acquisitions fees fell in 2012, but total fees rose 3.7 percent, to $50.9 billion. According to Bloomberg Markets, that was driven higher "by a surge in the refinancing of corporate debt." Goldman Sachs, which ranked no. 1 last year, slipped to no. 2 this year, but still led the ranking for mergers and acquisitions fees. Morgan Stanley, which was no. 2 for 2011, slipped to no. 3 because of the botched Facebook IPO. Interesting stuff, and the report comes with some good news on 2013 too. M&amp;A deals in the first six weeks of the year totaled $288.2 billion, a significant jump from $246.6 billion in the same period last year.
Just a quick update on one of our favorite charts in the world: An overlay of initial jobless claims vs. the S&amp;P 500. If you ever want to be reassured that it's economic fundamentals that are driving the stock market rally, then look no further than this. As jobless claims improve, stocks go up. As claims weaken, stocks go down. (Note that we've flipped over the claims number, the red line) FRED
Yi Gang, deputy governor of China's central bank, issued the call after G20 finance ministers last month moved to calm fears of a looming war on the currency markets at a meeting in Moscow. Those fears have largely been fueled by the recent steep decline in the Japanese yen, which critics have accused Tokyo of manipulating to give its manufacturers a competitive edge in key export markets over Asian rivals. Yi said a currency war could be avoided if major countries observed the G20 consensus that monetary policy should primarily serve as a tool for domestic economy, the Xinhua report said. But China "is fully prepared", he added. "In terms of both monetary policies and other mechanism arrangement, China will take into full account the quantitative easing policies implemented by central banks of foreign countries." South Korea's incoming president Park Geun-Hye has also signaled her willingness to step in to stabilize the won and protect exporters battling a stronger Korean currency and a weaker yen. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Since 2004,†interest in 'stocks' and 'bonds' has plunged by more than 50%. Despite a renaissance for bonds in 2008, and stocks in 2009, the 'Great Rotation' appears to be 'out of investing'. Google Trends also shows that, as expected, 'Bonds' have been more popular than 'Stocks' since the crash - a development the Fed is so desperately trying to reverse, by imposing ever stricter central planning, ironically the reason why most have "just said no" to an†authoritarian, inefficient, and farcical policy instrument formerly known as the market. Is it any wonder so many retail brokerages, commission-takers, and asset-gatherers are advertising day-in, day-out and constantly reassuring with the "it'll all be 'ok' in the long-run" meme? Zero Hedge
REUTERS/Rick WilkingWarren BuffettWarren Buffett, the billionaire "Oracle of Omaha" continues to be involved in some of the biggest investment plays in the world. Buffett is undoubtedly the most successful investor in history. His investment philosophy is no secret, and he has repeatedly shared bits and pieces of it through a lifetime of quips and memorable quotes. His brilliance is timeless, and we find ourselves referring back to them over and over again. We compiled a few of Buffett's best quotes from his TV appearances, newspaper op-eds, magazine interviews, and of course his annual letters. \"It's far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price.\" Source: Letter to shareholders, 1989 \"You don't need to be a rocket scientist. Investing is not a game where the guy with the 160 IQ beats the guy with 130 IQ.\" Source: Warren Buffett Speaks, via msnbc.msn \"To invest successfully, you need not understand beta, efficient markets, modern portfolio theory, option pricing or emerging markets. You may, in fact, be better off knowing nothing of these. That, of course, is not the prevailing view at most business schools, whose finance curriculum tends to be dominated by such subjects. In our view, though, investment students need only two well-taught courses - How to Value a Business, and How to Think About Market Prices.\" Source: Chairman's Letter, 1996 \"None of this means, however, that a business or stock is an intelligent purchase simply because it is unpopular; a contrarian approach is just as foolish as a follow-the-crowd strategy. What's required is thinking rather than polling. Unfortunately, Bertrand Russell's observation about life in general applies with unusual force in the financial world: \"Most men would rather die than think. Many do.\" Source: Chairman's Letter, 1990 \"After all, you only find out who is swimming naked when the tide goes out.\" Source: Letter to shareholders, 2001 \"I have pledged ñ to you, the rating agencies and myself ñ to always run Berkshire with more than ample cash. We never want to count on the kindness of strangers in order to meet tomorrowís obligations. When forced to choose, I will not trade even a nightís sleep for the chance of extra profits.\" †Source: Letter to shareholders, 2008 \"The best thing that happens to us is when a great company gets into temporary trouble...We want to buy them when they're on the operating table.\" Source: Businessweek, 1999 \"Over the long term, the stock market news will be good. In the 20th century, the United States endured two world wars and other traumatic and expensive military conflicts; the Depression; a dozen or so recessions and financial panics; oil shocks; a flu epidemic; and the resignation of a disgraced president. Yet the Dow rose from 66 to 11,497.\" Source: The New York Times, October 16, 2008 \"The line separating investment and speculation, which is never bright and clear, becomes blurred still further when most market participants have recently enjoyed triumphs. Nothing sedates rationality like large doses of effortless money. After a heady experience of that kind, normally sensible people drift into behavior akin to that of Cinderella at the ball. They know that overstaying the festivities æ that is, continuing to speculate in companies that have gigantic valuations relative to the cash they are likely to generate in the future æ will eventually bring on pumpkins and mice. But they nevertheless hate to miss a single minute of what is one helluva party. Therefore, the giddy participants all plan to leave just seconds before midnight. Thereís a problem, though: They are dancing in a room in which the clocks have no hands.\" Source: Letter to shareholders, 2000 \"Your goal as an investor should simply be to purchase, at a rational price, a part interest in an easily-understandable business whose earnings are virtually certain to be materially higher five, ten and twenty years from now. Over time, you will find only a few companies that meet these standards - so when you see one that qualifies, you should buy a meaningful amount of stock. You must also resist the temptation to stray from your guidelines: If you aren't willing to own a stock for ten years, don't even think about owning it for ten minutes. Put together a portfolio of companies whose aggregate earnings march upward over the years, and so also will the portfolio's market value.\" Source: Chairman's Letter, 1996 \"When we own portions of outstanding businesses with outstanding managements, our favorite holding period is forever.\" Source: Letter to shareholders, 1988 \"I try to buy stock in businesses that are so wonderful that an idiot can run them. Because sooner or later, one will.\" Source: Business Insider \"Investors should remember that excitement and expenses are their enemies. And if they insist on trying to time their participation in equities, they should try to be fearful when others are greedy and greedy only when others are fearful.\" Source: Letter to shareholders, 2004 \"The stock market is a no-called-strike game. You don't have to swing at everything--you can wait for your pitch. The problem when you're a money manager is that your fans keep yelling, 'Swing, you bum!'\" Source: The Tao of Warren Buffett via Engineeringnews.com \"We will continue to ignore political and economic forecasts, which are an expensive distraction for many investors and businessmen. Thirty years ago, no one could have foreseen the huge expansion of the Vietnam War, wage and price controls, two oil shocks, the resignation of a president, the dissolution of the Soviet Union, a one-day drop in the Dow of 508 points, or treasury bill yields fluctuating between 2.8% and 17.4%. \"But, surprise - none of these blockbuster events made the slightest dent in Ben Graham's investment principles. Nor did they render unsound the negotiated purchases of fine businesses at sensible prices. Imagine the cost to us, then, if we had let a fear of unknowns cause us to defer or alter the deployment of capital. Indeed, we have usually made our best purchases when apprehensions about some macro event were at a peak. Fear is the foe of the faddist, but the friend of the fundamentalist.Source: Chairman's Letter, 1994 \"Long ago, Sir Isaac Newton gave us three laws of motion, which were the work of genius. But Sir Isaacís talents didnít extend to investing: He lost a bundle in the South Sea Bubble, explaining later, ìI can calculate the movement of the stars, but not the madness of men.î If he had not been traumatized by this loss, Sir Isaac might well have gone on to discover the Fourth Law of Motion: For investors as a whole, returns decrease as motion increases.\" Source: Letters to shareholders, 2005 \"Long ago, Ben Graham taught me that 'Price is what you pay; value is what you get.' Whether weíre talking about socks or stocks, I like buying quality merchandise when it is marked down.\" Source: Letter to shareholders, 2008 \"Our investments continue to be few in number and simple in concept: The truly big investment idea can usually be explained in a short paragraph. We like a business with enduring competitive advantages that is run by able and owner-oriented people. When these attributes exist, and when we can make purchases at sensible prices, it is hard to go wrong (a challenge we periodically manage to overcome). \"Investors should remember that their scorecard is not computed using Olympic-diving methods: Degree-of-difficulty doesnít count. If you are right about a business whole value is largely dependent on a single key factor that is both easy to understand and enduring, the payoff is the same as if you had correctly analyzed an investment alternative characterized by many constantly shifting and complex variables.\" Source: Chairman's Letter, 1994 \"I am a better investor because I am a businessman, and a better businessman because I am no investor.\" Source: Forbes.com - Thoughts On The Business Life \"SUPPOSE that an investor you admire and trust comes to you with an investment idea. ìThis is a good one,î he says enthusiastically. ìIím in it, and I think you should be, too.î Would your reply possibly be this? ìWell, it all depends on what my tax rate will be on the gain youíre saying weíre going to make. If the taxes are too high, I would rather leave the money in my savings account, earning a quarter of 1 percent.î Only in Grover Norquistís imagination does such a response exist.\" Source: New York Times \"Our approach is very much profiting from lack of change rather than from change. With Wrigley chewing gum, it's the lack of change that appeals to me. I don't think it is going to be hurt by the Internet. That's the kind of business I like.\" Source: Businessweek, 1999 \"Time is the friend of the wonderful business, the enemy of the mediocre.\" Source: Letters to shareholders 1989 \"Rule No. 1: never lose money; rule No. 2: don't forget rule No. 1\" Source: The Tao of Warren Buffett
