Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Stocks Have Begun The Transition From Their Reliance On Monetary Policy To Fundamentals (BMO Capital Markets) Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets has raised his S&amp;P 500 target to 1,650 from 1,575. This he says was "driven by a reduction of the equity risk premium (ERP) to 4% from 4.5% that we apply in our DDM and P/E models. He also thinks stock prices are beginning to reflect fundamentals over monetary policy. "This does not mean volatility will evaporate. To the contrary, we believe there is a very good chance that stocks will continue to exhibit sharp moves in both directions akin to what has transpired in recent weeks. As such, US stocks may have already put their high in for the year. However, given our penchant for investing and not market timing, we would advise clients to build positions on pullbacks and decrease potential tracking errors on stocks that have become extended." About 5.4 Million Single Women Households Will Seek Financial Advice Through 2015 (FA Mag) There are 9 million households headed by single women that have investible assets of over $100,000. And 60% of those women are expected to look for financial advice through 2015, according to Information Asset Partners (IAP) and Meridian-IQ, cited by FA Mag.¬† California had the largest retail investor market with 12.3% of affluent single-woman investors and New York was second at 8.3%. The study found no co-relation between the number of affluent female investors and female advisors. If We Are Reliving The Bond Market Nightmare Of 1994, Then Buy Stocks (Deutsche Bank) Back in 1994 the surge in interest rates devastated bond investors. In a new report, Deutsche Bank says if what we're seeing now is like 1994 it's a good time to buy stocks.  Deutsche Bank SEC Nominees Back Move For More Public Accountability In Settlements (Investment News) SEC nominees Kara Stein and Michael Piwowar told lawmakers that they support "ending enforcement settlements that allow targets to avoid admitting or denying the charges," according to Investment News.¬† Current policies allow firms to settle without admitting to charges. Recently SEC chairman Mary Jo White pushed for a change in policy that would see firms admit to charges in some instances. Bond Funds Hit With Biggest Outflows Ever This Week (BAML) Investors pulled a record $23.3 billion from bond funds in the week ending June 26. Bank of America's chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett called it 'bond market liquidation.' And these redemptions were at record highs in emerging market bond funds, high yield bond funds, investment grade, and mortgage-backed securities funds. BofAML Global Research, EPFR Global
Kevin Krejci on FlickrNEW YORK (Reuters) - Fitch Ratings on Friday affirmed the United States' top level credit rating at AAA but held the outlook at negative, citing still elevated debt levels that leave it vulnerable to shocks unless more deficit reduction measures are adopted. The affirmation reflects strong economic and credit fundamentals, the firm said in a statement. Fitch said it will conduct a further review of the credit rating by the end of 2013. "The outlook remains negative due to continuing uncertainty over the prospect for additional deficit-reduction measures necessary to reduce government indebtedness over the medium to long term," Fitch said. Fitch also said the negative outlook reflects "near-term risks associated with the expiration of federal appropriations authority at the end of the current fiscal year (30 September 2013) and in particular a timely increase in the debt limit." On June 10, rival Standard &amp; Poor's, which cut the U.S. credit rating to AA-plus from AAA in August 2011, revised its outlook on the credit to stable from negative, removing the near-term threat of a downgrade because of an improving economic and fiscal outlook. Moody's Investors Service holds the U.S. rating at Aaa with a negative outlook, a position it has held since August 2011. The firm highlighted the diversity of the U.S. economy, its "extraordinary monetary and exchange rate flexibility," global reserve currency status of the U.S. dollar as well as the depth and liquidity of its financial markets as underpinnings for the top credit rating. "Fitch's current assessment is that the economic recovery is gaining traction as the headwinds from private sector debt deleveraging ease. This is underpinned by a pick-up in the housing market and gradual decline in unemployment," the firm said. (Reporting by Daniel Bases and Pam Niimi; Editing by James Dalgleish) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 


The second quarter was pretty busy for traders in most markets. The chart below shows the scoreboard across major asset classes around the globe. Despite a ~ 20% crash from its May 22 peak, technically putting it into a bear market, the Japanese Nikkei 225 was still one of the best performers in major global markets in the second quarter, returning 11%. On the other end of the spectrum, 10-year U.S. Treasury notes lost 8% of their value ñ a big move that has sparked fears of a global central bank regime shift toward less monetary accommodation and therefore, less financial market liquidity. The losses in Treasuries also sparked a rout in emerging markets ñ EM sovereign debt, proxied by JPMorgan's Emerging Market Bond Index ñ fell 6%, while EM stocks ñ proxied by MSCI's EM index ñ fell 11%. The worst performer, of course, was gold. The once-loved precious metal lost a whopping 23% in the second quarter as it fell out of favor with investors. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
HannahWebb / FlickrStocks tumbled into the close to end the first half of the year. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Gold is back above the $1,200 level today, but the precious metal is well off its 52-week highs. While some expect gold to tumble much further, Frank Holmes at US Global Investors expects the yellow metal to rally by about $200 over the next 12 months. He said the low for the year tends to take place in June-July. US Global Investors "Markets are capitulating, there's liquidation and if you just look at the math of volatility, it is extremely oversold," Holmes told Business Insider. "That crowded trade would be how many people were short the commodity. And we like to take a lot comparing it to how has Facebook done, and how has Apple done in the past 12 months. Those stocks have lost more money, each of them individually, than all the gold, but people are fixated on gold going down." Holmes also pointed to what all of this means for gold supply. Gold mining companies are producing gold at cost or are losing money. Their goal now is to drive down costs. "We are going to see the supply of gold decline. That's a real key factor. And the junior companies are starved for capital, and them being starved for capital, most big discoveries come from juniors, and if they're starved for capital, there's going to be no success in exploration... "We're below the cash cost for producing an ounce of gold. And what we're going to see is what we saw with natural gas, the huge explosion in the discovery of natural gas and immediately drilling stopped. All the drilling companies stopped that took supply away from the market. And I think you're going to start to see the same thing with gold." Besides the technical break in gold, Holmes said the biggest two things he is seeing are the "short-term calamity in America and China with the punch bowl being take away allegedly," and India's higher taxes on gold imports. 
Credit AgricoleGold has been getting unceremoniously crushed since it entered a bear market in April, with levels falling below the $1,200 mark this week. At some point, one would expect the rout to swing back in the goldbug's favor, right? Wrong, according to CrÈdit Agricole in a new report titled "Gold ó No Relief On The Horizon." "Our new end year 2013 and 2014 forecast is USD 1150 and 1050, respectively," wrote CrÈdit Agricole's Mitul Kotecha. High U.S. yields, a firmer dollar, and struggling India/China demand leads†CrÈdit Agricole to believe gold will continue to get crushed. Kotecha lays all of this out in a brief presentation. NOTE: Thanks to CrÈdit Agricole for giving us permission to feature these slides.
Everyone seems to be blaming Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke for bringing volatility back to the markets when he opened his mouth at last week's post-FOMC meeting press conference. However, Bernanke and the Fed began holding these press conferences in 2011 for the benefit (or to the detriment) of everyone. "While the Fed has been around for a long time (it was created 100 years ago), the Fed‚Äôs communications on monetary policy have a much shorter history," said LPL Financial's Jeff Kleintop.¬† " In fact, it was really only in the 1990s when the Fed‚Äôs actions became transparent to market participants." In his weekly commentary, Kleintop rounded up nine changes the Fed made in its effort to improve its communications with the public. LPL Financial
Courtesy of Sotheby's International RealtyFormer Tommy Hilfiger CEO and co-founder Joel Horowitz has a new plan to sell his gargantuan Lake Tahoe estate, which has been on and off the market for the past six years: He will personally finance the purchase for a qualified buyer. The financing deals would be worked out once a qualified buyer is found, but it's a rare offer from a seller, a representative for the realtor said. The home was initially listed for $100 million; it was relisted with¬†Sierra Sotheby's International Realty in January with an asking price of $75 million. The 210-acre estate, called Tranquility, is the largest on the Nevada side of Lake Tahoe. In addition to a 27,000-square-foot mansion, it has an indoor glass mosaic pool, private lake, two par-3 golf holes and an indoor golf simulator, horse stables, a wine cellar, a cinema, and separate guest and staff residences. The decor is also impressive, from a replica of the staircase on the Titanic to four Rembrandt paintings. Nearly all of the furnishings are included in the sale price.

Mark Wilson/Getty Images CAMBRIDGE ñ Why has quantitative easing coexisted with price stability in the United States? Or, as I often hear, ìWhy has the Federal Reserveís printing of so much money not caused higher inflation?î Inflation has certainly been very low. During the past five years, the†consumer price index†has increased at an annual rate of just 1.5%. The Fedís preferred measure of inflation ñ the†price index for personal consumption expenditures, excluding food and energy†ñ also rose at a rate of just 1.5%. By contrast, the Fedís purchases of long-term bonds during this period has been unprecedentedly large. The Fed bought more than $2 trillion of Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities, nearly ten times the annual rate of bond purchases during the previous decade. In the last year alone, the stock of bonds on the Fedís balance sheet has risen more than 20%. The historical record shows that rapid monetary growth does fuel high inflation. That was very clear during Germanyís hyperinflation in the 1920ís and Latin Americaís in the 1980ís. But even more moderate shifts in Americaís monetary growth rate have translated into corresponding shifts in the rate of inflation. In the 1970ís, US money supply grew at an average annual rate of 9.6%, the highest rate in the previous half-century; inflation averaged 7.4%, also a half-century high. In the 1990ís, annual monetary growth averaged only 3.9%, and the average inflation rate was just 2.9%. That is why the absence of any inflationary response to the Fedís massive bond purchases in the past five years seems so puzzling. But the puzzle disappears when we recognize that quantitative easing is not the same thing as ìprinting moneyî or, more accurately, increasing the stock of money. The stock of money that relates most closely to inflation consists primarily of the deposits that businesses and households have at commercial banks. Traditionally, greater amounts of Fed bond buying have led to faster growth of this money stock. But a fundamental change in the Fedís rules in 2008 broke the link between its bond buying and the subsequent size of the money stock. As a result, the Fed has bought a massive amount of bonds without causing the stock of money ñ and thus the rate of inflation ñ to rise. The link between bond purchases and the money stock depends on the role of commercial banksí ìexcess reserves.î When the Fed buys Treasury bonds or other assets like mortgage-backed securities, it creates ìreservesî for the commercial banks, which the banks deposit at the Fed itself. Commercial banks are required to hold reserves equal to a share of their checkable deposits. Since reserves in excess of the required amount did not earn any interest from the Fed before 2008, commercial banks had an incentive to lend to households and businesses until the resulting growth of deposits used up all of those excess reserves. Those increased deposits at commercial banks were, by definition, an increase in the relevant stock of money. An increase in bank loans allows households and businesses to increase their spending. That extra spending means a higher level of nominal GDP (output at market prices). Some of the increase in nominal GDP takes the form of higher real (inflation-adjusted) GDP, while the rest shows up as inflation. That is how Fed bond purchases have historically increased the stock of money ñ and the rate of inflation. The link between Fed bond purchases and the subsequent growth of the money stock changed after 2008, because the Fed began to pay interest on excess reserves. The interest rate on these totally safe and liquid deposits induced the banks to maintain excess reserves at the Fed instead of lending and creating deposits to absorb the increased reserves, as they would have done before 2008. As a result, the volume of excess reserves held at the Fed increased from less than $2 billion in 2008 to $1.8 trillion now, effectively severing the link between Fed bond purchases and the resulting stock of money. The size of the broad money stock (known as M2) grew at an average rate of just 1.5% a year from the end of 2008 to the end of 2012. So it is not surprising that inflation has remained so moderate ñ indeed, lower than in any decade since the end of World War II. And it is also not surprising that quantitative easing has done so little to increase nominal spending and real economic activity. The absence of significant inflation in the past few years does not mean that it wonít rise in the future. When businesses and households eventually increase their demand for loans, commercial banks that have adequate capital can meet that demand with new lending without running into the limits that might otherwise result from inadequate reserves. The resulting growth of spending by businesses and households might be welcome at first, but it could soon become a source of unwanted inflation. The Fed could, in principle, limit inflationary lending by raising the interest rate on excess reserves or by using open-market operations to increase the short-term federal funds interest rate. But the Fed may hesitate to act, or may act with insufficient force, owing to its dual mandate to focus on employment as well as price stability. That outcome is more likely if high rates of long-term unemployment and underemployment persist even as the inflation rate rises. And that is why investors are right to worry that inflation could return, even if the Fedís massive bond purchases in recent years have not brought it about.
REUTERS/David GrayA small-scale miner holds his gold that was melted together at a processing plant located around 100km (62 miles) north of the Mongolian capital city Ulan Bator April 5, 2012. The price of gold has been on a horrific decline for the past few months. However, this hasn't fazed the die-hard gold bulls. One popular case being made is that high mining costs ultimately create a floor for prices. In theory, if prices fall below cost, then miners will stop mining it and supply will quickly evaporate.¬† The marginal buyers will then scramble for whatever's left, causing prices to surge. Obviously, things are a bit more complicated. "Gold mining costs are not uniform," noted UBS's Art Cashin. "They vary from mine to mine and from level to level within each mine." So, how much does it vary? Mining giant Barrick Gold published a slew of stats with its latest quarterly earnings announcement.¬† They also included the cost of mining an ounce of gold at each of their sites. As you can see below, the cost of mining an ounce of gold for Barrick ranges from $333 to $3,764 per ounce. Barrick Gold, Business Insider
Michael SetoTumblr's acquisition tells you a lot about things digital in 2013. Silicon Valley may still lead in pure tech, but when Marissa Mayer needed a defining acquisition for Yahoo!, the Big Apple is where she went shopping. That's why New York will be back again as host city for IGNITION: Future of Digital, Business Insiderís flagship event on November 11-13. For the fourth year running, we're gathering 700 senior executives from the converging worlds of technology, media, marketing, entertainment, investing, and finance. They will converge at the Time Warner Center overlooking Central Park. Their mission will be to explore the ongoing explosion of new business models being fueled by digital technology and the Internet. At IGNITION we discuss innovation that matters--who wins, who loses, and what you and your company can do to keep ahead. A few of the topics weíre working on: For a taste of what you can expect in November, check out the latest IGNITION 2013 line-up, or the full agendas from our previous events. And reserve your spot now because extra early-bird rates expire soon! If you're interested in joining the IGNITION community by sponsoring, contact events@businessinsider.com. Follow @BI_Events on Twitter for IGNITION updates. And see you in November! 
Google FinanceThe stock market's 3-day winning streak is at risk. But there are signs of life. After being down by as much as 132 points, the Dow has recovered all of its losses and turned positive. We got two big economic reports this morning. First was Chicago PMI, which fell to 51.6 from 58.7 in May.¬† It was also below the economists' consensus estimate of 55.0.¬† This suggests the economy in the midwest is decelerating. Second was the University of Michigan's reading of consumer confidence.¬† The headline number came in at 84.1, beating the consensus estimate of 83.0.¬† However, this was down from the May reading of 84.5. Economists speculate that confidence was likely rattled by volatility in the markets. In other market news, bonds are selling off on heavy volume, sending interest rates up.
YoutubeRick†Harrison, proprietor of World Famous Gold &amp; Silver Pawn Shop and star of History Channel's "Pawn Stars," thinks the price of gold could head lower.† "I'm†actually considering selling a little bit, taking a capital loss, and buying it back in a month," Harrison told CNBC this morning. "I think a lot of people should consider doing that ó you'll save a little money on your capital gains." As we've†seen this weekó†though not in the last few hours†ó gold has been plummeting. However, Harrison noted that while gold is plunging on the commodities exchanges, he's finding it difficult to build an inventory for his shop. "I retail gold and silver and I'm having a real difficult time right now getting physical metal," he explained. "It's the crazy world about gold and silver: Sometimes the paper market is going down but you can't find actual physical items." The reason, he said, was a lack of physical product, which he blamed on private and government mints not keeping up with demand. But this same phenomenon should help prices see a bottom shortly. "I still pay right around spot ó I don't think it's going to go much lower," Harrison said. This is a similar argument made by Peter Schiff to our Mamta Badkar: If miners shut down, physical supply will grind to a halt, which will cause prices to rise.† Of course, being a pawn shop owner, Harrison refused to disown the gold trade. "It's a good insurance policy ó the government can screw up the currency," he said.
Twitter via @williamlegateThey're barely 18 years old, but these high school students are doing more than most adults could ever hope to do in their lifetimes.  Their resumes will make your jaw drop: There's a scientist who built a nuclear reactor in his father's garage, a swimmer who won four Olympic gold medals, and a self-taught coder who runs his own app development company.  And more importantly, they prove¬†that age really has no bearing on what people are able to accomplish. Listed in alphabetical order, we found the 25 most impressive students graduating from high school this year. Max Rosenberg contributed to this story.
REUTERS/Thaier al-SudaniAn anti-Gaddafi fighter shows the media what they say was the golden pistol of Muammar Gaddafi, near Sirte October 20, 2011.The plunge in the market price for gold has been absolutely stunning.¬† And analysts believe a number of factors ranging from momentum to low liquidity will send prices even lower. However, the gold bulls are holding strong.¬† Most bull cases these days hinge on one thing: the cost of mining gold. Basically, they argue that gold mining costs are high.¬† And if prices fall below cost, then miners will stop mining it and supply will quickly evaporate.¬† The marginal buyers will then scramble for whatever's left, causing prices to surge. Mining costs effectively put in a floor to the price of gold. The problem is that gold mining costs aren't very uniform.¬† Barrick gold recently published some stats showing that it takes anywhere from 2 tons to 91 tons of rock to yield an ounce of gold. Art Cashin discussed this issue this morning: What's Mine Is Mine ‚Äì On CNBC's Squawkbox this morning, Becky Quick was asking several guests about the mining cost for gold since bullion had plunged below $1200.¬† I thought the response might have been a touch confusing to viewers so I shot off the following email to my savvy and charming friend: Gold mining costs are not uniform.¬† They vary from mine to mine and from level to level within each mine.¬† If the cost of my mine is $800, I will be happy to mine when the bullion price is above it.¬† As bullion moves even higher, I will dig out deeper and more difficult ore (adding to supply).¬† As price drops, I will concentrate on easier (cheaper) ore.¬† The cost of mining is an estimate of the average of all working mines and it tends to vary with bullion. Peter Schiff spoke with Business Insider's Mamta Badkar about this yesterday: Mining is very energy intensive and ten years ago, oil was $12 - $15 a barrel.¬† Now it's $95 a barrel. So that's just one of the costs. Labor costs have gone up because the cost of living has gone up in many of the countries where gold is mined. The price of gold isn't even high because it doesn't even reflect its production costs...¬† It shows you how prices need to go higher. Most mines are going to be shut down and there will be no supply and that all by itself means the price of gold has to go up because there will be no supply. Schiff expects mining companies won't invest in capital expenditures or exploration until gold hits $2,500 to $3,000 by his estimates. Gold prices are straddling $1,200 per ounce today.
DisneyWarning: †This is a story about customer service in the banking industry, so reader discretion is advised.† Do not read if you are prone to high blood pressure.† Also, this is not an apocryphal story. †This actually happened to me this week.† The Background to the Problem One of my businesses became inactive last year, so at the end of the year I closed out my checking account for that LLC with Capital One.††This Spring I filed articles of dissolution with the Delaware Secretary of State (where the LLC was created), as well as with the Texas Secretary of State (where I was doing business.) Also this Spring I received a statement from an old $25,000 Capital One Line of Credit affiliated with this business entity.††It showed a $0.02 balance owed, a mistaken leftover from the last time I used the line, probably about two years ago.††A few months back I tried to close the line in person at the branch but the branch manager said they didnít handle business lines of credit there, and she gave me a number to call to sort it out with Capital One customer service, over the phone.††So far, so good. Two Pennies Iím enough of a detail-oriented person when it comes to my businesses that I decided to†contact†the bank and definitively close out the line of credit. Two cents is silly, and the result of a bank error from a few years back, but it was a loose thread that I needed to tie off, and anyway itís probably not a good idea to have open lines of credit that Iíll never use, especially since I had dissolved the business. Also, Iím a†Mary Poppins†fan, and a finance-guy, so how can I not appreciate the ironic, iconic importance of two pennies (Tuppence), when it comes to banking stability? Like I said, I had visited my bank branch to close the account, but the manager told me to call customer service.††Evidently Dick Van Dyke was not available at that time. The Tragedy of Antigone I called the customer service telephone number at Capital One provided by my branch manager. After receiving an automated voice menu in which ìclose my line of credit accountî was never an option ñ on the second time through the automated voice menu, I think I pressed ë1í for loan account balance ñ and††reached a human.† On her request I gave my first and last name and account number and explained that I needed to close my line of credit. ìPlease hold for someone who can help.î Click. OkayÖanother two minutes pass. ìHello, this is Antigone for Capital One, can I have your first and last name and account number?î Of course she can.††Again. Not a problem. I explain that I would like to close my line of credit associated with one of my business entities which has been inactive for a long time, and that the associated checking account has been closed for months. This is where the drama begins. ìUh, do you know you have a balance on the line?††We will not be able to close it.î ìI know that.††Itís 2 cents.††Thatís been on there for a couple of years.††After I transferred money from my checking account to pay off the balance, the 2 cents showed up.††Probably a dayís interest accrual or something like that, by mistake.î ìOk, but the system wonít let me close the account if you have a balance.î ìBut itís a mistake by the bank,î I replied.††ìThe line always automatically deducted monthly payments from the associated checking account.††I made sure to request a full payoff of the line when I closed the checking account.î ìOk, but the system wonít let you close the account.††Youíll have to go into the branch to do it.î ìI have another Capital One business checking account, and I have a Capital One credit card, maybe can you take the 2 cents from there?††Iíd really like you to have the 2 cents.††I understand this is important.î (Because, again, ìTuppenceî) †ìWe canít do that.††Youíll have to go into your local branch.î ìWell, I went to close the account at the branch, but they said they couldnít close business lines of credit at the bank.††It has to be done over the phone, and this was number the branch manager gave me.††Maybe you could just check with someone?î ìOk, could you please hold and Iíll check?î ìOk.î 5 minutes of hold music.††My soul begins to ache.††I can feel the already-advanced process of telomere shortening in my chromosomes accelerate.†††Antigone returns. ìIíve checked with my manager, but thereís really nothing that can be done if youíve got a balance on that line.î ìI understand.††But you see, the branch says they canít close it, and now you say you canít close it.††And Iím afraid if I go back to the branch theyíll say the same thing again.††Could you please just recheck, because weíve got an insolvable problem.††Iím really trying to get you your two cents, and I really want to keep your records up to date.††But this is beginning to bug me.î ìOk, let me put you on hold again and call your branch directly to see if I can get them to help you close the account.††Whatís the address of your branch?î† I look it up online and provide her with the correct address.††Then, hold music for another 8 minutes.† Entire civilizations, like the Whos of Whoville on specks of dust under Hortonís protection, grow, flourish, and perish in the interim.††Red giants become white dwarfs.††And our little blue orb floats alone and unnoticed, two-thirds of the way out on the spiraling Milky Way galaxy. ìHi, Michael?††I reached the branch, but Cynthia who answered the phone said she couldnít do it, and the branch manager was in a meeting.††The best thing is probably to just go down there.î At this point in the call, 18 minutes into my epic quest to close the Tuppence Line, Iíve moved ñ in my mind ñ into full-blown unhappy mode.† The NSA, undoubtedly monitoring this (and every other call weíve ever made) will have registered a voice-tone recognition alert that the customer on the line, me, is no longer ok with how things are going.††Although I am still calm and mostly even-keeled, the absurdity has become too much. ìAntigone, listen, Iím not upset with you, but can you see how this whole episode really doesnít work, from a customer service perspective?††Can you get the absurdity of this?††Are you a Mary Poppins fan?††I am.††Do you remember the Tuppence Song with Dick Van Dyke as the old banker?††I understand the importance of 2 cents.††Even though itís a bank error, I really want to pay it, but I canít.††You wonít let me.††And even though Iíve now spent 18 minutes trying to help the bank, you wonít let me.††And to leave it unresolved like this is really unsettling.î I urged Antigone to try to elevate the problem with a manager, and to figure out a way to solve the problem for the customer.[2]††She promised she would ìopen an inquiryî with a manager and someone would get back to me.††We ended the call. The Law and the Higher Law I really donít blame Antigone.††She remained positive and polite throughout the call, albeit ineffective.††She isnít the main problem. Antigoneís stuck in a bank that values ëthe systemí and ëefficiencyí ñ whatever that means and at whatever the cost ñ over human judgment.[3]† Why do people hate their banks?††We hate banks because we sense, rightly, that banks respond to a single set of laws.††At every turn, bank customers must be treated a certain way, and therefore be reminded that they are subject to non-negotiable societal laws around process, automation, and efficiency as understood by the company. Sophoclesí character Antigone, of course, argued that a higher law prevailed over traditional societal law. In classic Greek theater, the name Antigone has become short-hand for loyalty to a higher moral law ñ the right to honor our dead ñ over fealty to a flawed societal rule, punishment for challenging the ruler.††I swear Iím not making up Antigoneís name as a customer service rep at Capital One.† I see in my interactions with her and Capital One this week as encapsulating certain fixed rules of customer service in an extremely anomic corporate world.††I get it that my bank has a ësystemí rule about closing lines of credit with outstanding balances.† I donít expect Capital Oneís Antigone to break out of her proscribed role and commit professional suicide, as Sophoclesí Antigone commits bodily suicide, in honor of a higher law. But for the love of Oedipusí cursed lineage and Polyneicesí unburied body, can I please get a human being with some power to be reasonable about the higher-order goal of customer service at my bank?††For fuckís sake. And now I will start an argument with myself. The Bishop and the Banker ñ Is Automation a Tragedy? James Jones, the Bishop of Liverpool, England ñ a sometime commentator for the BBC†such as in this program on prisons†ñ interviewed me last month for an upcoming program the BBC will call ìThe Bishop and the Banker.î† The main thread of his interview query was the following: ìBy automating[4]†the mortgage lending process in the lead-up to the 2008 Crisis (and presumably beyond) did we lose the ëhumanityí in bank/customer relationships?††And his follow-up point by implication: can we reintroduce ëessential humanityí to the mortgage lending process? My answer to the Bishop was essentially ìNo.î††Of course, you donít just say ìnoî to a Bishop, so I said more than that, but really that sums it up. No, I donít think automation is the key culprit of the 2008 Crisis, and therefore ëreintroducing humanity,í to the lending relationship is not the key solution. During the interview I talked about the price of tomatoes, as an analogy for mortgages.††Yes, sometimes modern tomatoes are tasteless cardboard things, but they also come cheaply and affordably.††Few people would choose to pay $9 for tomatoes, which is the price we could probably retail them in bulk if we returned to the labor-intensive ëhumaneí way of growing tomatoes ñ in our back yards.† Adam Smithís point about the division of labor in pin-making still prevails.††Incredible gains come from splitting up the task of producing the pin-head from the pin-body.††Efficiency in human production generally is a good thing, with great customer benefits.††Few people, if they understood all the consequences, want to take out super-expensive mortgages, even if†George Bailey of Bailey Building and Loan Association†kindly oversees the whole process himself. What I think the Bishop missed, so Iíll reiterate my initial response to him here, is that the efficiencies of mortgage lending since the early 1980s are totally awesome.††Why?††Because my 2.75% interest rate 15-year mortgage is totally awesome.††And that kind of rate is not at all possible from the ëhumanizingí Bailey Building and Loan Association.††Without all the efficiencies of this dehumanizing specialization, mortgages right now would probably cost 8-10%.[5]† This interview came back to my mind this week, however, as I smacked up against the ultimate dehumanizing experience at Capital One Bank.††Am I a hypocrite for believing strongly in the efficiencies of mortgage lending when it benefits me, but railing against dehumanized customer service when Iím on the receiving end? I would still answer the Bishop the same way, but my heightened blood pressure from Capital One gave me a new chance to reconsider his question. I still donít think we should blame 2008 on the dehumanization of mortgage underwriting, although I need to be careful to figure out why efficiency works in one context and not the other, aside from how it affects me personally. How to reconcile this, aka how not to be a self-serving hypocrite Can a bank be both efficient (cheap mortgage money is good) and humane (torture me for Tuppence is bad)? One solution seems to me that Antigone, and all of her customer service cohort, need more power to use human judgment.††She should never have to spend 18 minutes with me on the phone ñ in addition to whatever follow-up time she spent afterwards ñ trying to solve a problem worth two cents to the bank.††She needed to be trusted with business judgment, which clearly nobody in her chain of command has thought to give her.††To be thwarted twice in her quest to over-ride the ësystemí means the earthly law of systemic efficiency needs to be trumped by the higher-power law of human judgment. I think we hate banks because for the most part we sense that thereís no over-ride of the system available for person-to-person judgment.††Iím enough of an Adam Smithian to want total bank efficiency, but I also want to avoid the absurdities of bureaucratization. The NSA treatment In my imaginary non-existent poll of bank customers this week ñ 98% of people[6]†reported disappointment with their bankís customer service.††Why is that?† At base we suspect, rightly, that the bank couldnít care less about us as individuals.††Furthermore, banks operate within such a highly regulated environment that their entire frame of reference is to fit customers into neatly defined market and regulatory segments.† We donít think of ourselves as bits of data, but the bank does, and we canít change that.† Which reminds me: Among the most frightening aspects of the recent NSA phone-tracking revelations is the creeping fear that we could, any one of us, be caught up helplessly in a faceless bureaucratic nightmare. Personally, I prefer my spies to use common sense, actual evidence, the justice system, and human judgment before choosing who to target for snooping on the phone and internet.††Apparently, however, all citizensí private behavior can be subject to the same anonymous tracking, classification, treatment.††This doesnít sound like a good direction for us all to go in. Advanced efficient technology, whether for snooping or banking, has temporarily outstripped our societal ability to set up limits to the system. The 2008 mortgage crisis also felt like it came from this same uncomfortable place of valuing the anonymous efficiency of the system.††At least a part of the Occupy Wall Street movement responded to this terrible feeling that we are just data-points, adrift in a cruel economy.[7]† If hyper-toxic CDOs rip financial holes in our biggest banks, and 6 million people suddenly get laid off in a 2 year period, who can you appeal to?††Two million homes get foreclosed upon by robo-signing attorneys.††$80 Billion of public funds get pledged from one day to the next ñ to prop up systemically essential banks still paying bonuses to their employees.††The efficiency of the ìsystemî must be preserved at all costs, but what about the basic humanity?††What about whatís ërightí? I donít yet think the cruel automation of Skynet ñ whether in banking or the NSA ñ has permanently won this war.††But weíve got to figure out a few higher laws that trump the lower-order laws of the system.††We need a new Sophocles to remind us of whatís right. Postscript to my Tuppence Debacle with Capital One After Iíd written most of this post, a representative from Capital One Bank called me today to tell me, in a treacly voice reminiscent of†Bill Lumbergh in Office Space, that heíd resolved the problem for me.††ìWeíre just going to go ahead and forget about that two cents, hmmMK?††It seems it was from two years ago, so even though technically itís still owed weíre just going to go ahead and take care of it on our end, hmmMK? Is there anything else I can help you with?î Um.††No.††Youíve been a big help already.††I refrained from telling him a less Julie Andrews version of the phrase ìGo Fly A Kite.î  If youíve got tuppence for paper and string, you can buy your own set of wings, with your feet on the ground, youíre a bird in flight with your fist holding tight (da dum dum) to the strong of a kite.††Ooooh, letís go fly a kite. † [1]†And something similar happened to my wife trying to close a checking account with a $5 balance.††And it will happen to approximately 2.38 people nationwide in the time it takes you to read this column.††Ok I made that last number up. [2]†My managing editor (aka wife) insists I clarify that at this point that while the words I use may be technically have been ëpolite,í that my tone must have channeled my ìextremely annoyed bond salesmanî voice, which has the power to wither small plants, make children cry, and which she really hates.††Ok, maybe just a little bit of Mr. Gekko returned, but really in this case mostly I stayed cool. [3]†Speaking of allowing for human judgment,†this TedTalk is absolutely worth your 20 minutes on this particular topic.††When we rely on rules, algorithms and bureaucracy instead of human judgment, that way madness lies. [4]†Iím paraphrasing the Bishopís question, but by ìautomatingî I take to mean introducing efficiencies and algorithms that allow different people and distinct institutions in the process to pre-screen customers, underwrite the loan, provide the capital, and service the loan, rather than do this all in one bank. [5]†Iíve frequently been both a creator as well as an investor in seller-financed mortgages ñ essentially a do-it-yourself mortgage between a buyer and seller of real estate that eliminates the need for a mortgage bank.††It has rarely made sense to lend at less than an 8% interest rate, and as an investor Iíve always demanded significantly higher.††Thatís how I know bespoke mortgage lending is WAY pricier than the type of 2.75% rate available through ëdehumanizingí automation. [6]†I rounded downward to be conservative.††Thatís just good scientific practice. [7]†Another part of the Occupy Wall Street movement I guess just likes camping.††On concrete.
Gold is ripping. It was trading around $1190 an ounce at 10 AM, but right now, it's racing higher, and just went positive for the day after being down substantially earlier ‚Äì currently trading at levels around $1217, up 0.4%. It's unclear what is driving the move, but the buyers appear to be rushing in at the moment. Check out the volume on the sub-graph below. Gold has run into some heavy selling over the past few trading sessions. Yesterday, the shiny yellow metal dipped below $1200 for the first time since August 2010. BofA Merrill Lynch Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett notes that the $2.8 billion of investor redemptions from precious metals funds in the week ended June 26 marks the 20th straight week of outflows, totaling a staggering 21% of assets under management. Hartnett calls it "humongous and capitulatory." Thinkorswim
Rental cars no longer need to be boring. For travelers who want to drive in style, Hertz is now offering a fleet of supercars through its Hertz Dream Cars program. The fleet includes rides from Aston Martin, Audi, Bentley, Lamborghini, Tesla, and more, at 35 locations around the U.S. Naturally, a top of the line rental costs more than a few days in an old Chevy Impala. Hertz's Ferraris, Lamborghinis, and Bentleys start at $1,500 per day, and cost $3 for every mile above the 75 mile limit. The Aston Martin Vantage and Audi R8 both start at $1,000 per day, with the same $3/mile penalty. The cheaper end of the luxury lineup, including Porsche and Mercedes rides, will cost you $350 per diem, with a $.49 penalty for roll of the odometer over the 75 mile limit. Here's the full list of available whips. Hertz does not disclose how many it has of each:
Tom Pennington/Getty ImagesThe final results of the University of Michigan's June consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index increased to 84.1 from the 82.7 flash reading published earlier in June. However, it still remains below the 84.5 level registered in the May survey. The economic conditions sub-index rose to 93.8 from the 92.1 flash reading, but was below May's 98.0 reading. The economic outlook sub-index increased to 77.8 from the 76.7 flash reading, up from 75.8 in May. Inflation expectations one year ahead moderated to 3.0% from 3.2% in the flash reading and 3.1% in May. Inflation expectations five years ahead were 2.9%, down from the 3.0% flash reading but unchanged from May.
YouTubeChicago PMI ticked 51.6. Consensus was for 55.0.¬† It's the largest monthly drop in over four years. May was 58.7. "The gyrations seen over the past few months are not typical for the Barometer and some of this might be attributable to the unseasonable weather conditions," the report says. Here's the comment from Philip Uglow, chief economist at MNI indicators: Activity dropped back in June following the large rise in May. The trend level of the Barometer has picked up since the fourth quarter of 2012, and while these latest data point to some weakening between the first and second quarter, it is too early to say if this will continue. April had hit 49.0, indicating contraction. Another sign that volatility has returned. Full text: The Chicago Business BarometerTM declined to 51.6 in June, the largest monthly drop¬†since October 2008, and down from a 14-month high of 58.7 in May. The gyrations seen over the past few months are not typical for the Barometer and some of this might be attributable to the unseasonable weather conditions. Of the five Business Activity measures which make up the Barometer, four declined¬†with only the Employment indicator posting an increase. Order Backlogs plunged deep into contraction to the lowest level since September 2009 and was the single biggest drag on Barometer. Faster Supplier Delivery times and declines in Production and New Orders also contributed to the Barometer‚Äôs weakness. Prices Paid posted the second consecutive monthly increase, following a lull in April, putting it back in line with levels seen at the start of the year. Commenting on the MNI Chicago Report, Philip Uglow, Chief Economist at MNI Indicators said: ‚ÄúActivity dropped back in June following the large rise in May. The trend level of the Barometer has picked up since the fourth quarter of 2012, and while these latest data point to some weakening between the first and¬†second quarter, it is too early to say if this will continue.‚Äù¬† -- Click here for updates &gt;
Reuters/Shannon StapletonGold first entered a bear market in April, and the recent rout has seen the precious metal break below the $1,200 level this week. Adam Grimes, CIO at Waverly Advisors told Business Insider that market participants have stop orders beyond visible support points in the market. "[The sell off in mid-April] was quite likely driven by a cluster of these orders, and we believe that more are probably lurking lower," he said. A stop order is an order to sell a position if price fall to a certain level. Here's more from our conversation with Grimes. "When these orders are hit, they take so much liquidity from the market that price makes a sudden and sharp movement. Again, there are key elements of price behavior in these areas that can help manage risk and set up trading opportunities on all time-frames. "Though this looks like manipulation to many people, there is nothing nefarious here--this is simply how markets have worked since the beginning of recorded market history." Moreover he said that gold and other precious metals are responding to emotional and psychological factors like fears of losses.¬† And that there is a "considerable downside from this point." "$850 would be our ultimate target for the move," said Grimes.¬† Though he doesn't see a smooth fall to that level. Moreover, he adds that if there is a reversal in gold prices Waverly won't stick with a specific price target.
7:54 am EST - June 28, 2013 By Enis   What do I mean? ¬†Here is some evidence that illustrates my point: 1) ¬†Realized volatility is higher¬†&#8211; The 10 day and 30 day historical volatility measures in the SPX are simple measures of how much the market is moving each day (and generally a good indicator of how much single stocks are moving as well). ¬†The best predictor of the immediate future&#8217;s volatility is the volatility experienced in the immediate past. ¬†Here is the chart since the start of 2012, which has generally been a low volatility regime: The 10 day (black) and 30 day (orange) are at the highest level since last June. ¬†Granted, one could argue that if the correction&#8217;s over, markets should calm down. ¬†But 2 other measures are showing continued high readings that suggest to me that higher volatility is more likely to continue. 2) ¬†NYSE TICK Readings&#8217; Range Has Increased &#8211;¬†The NYSE TICK shows the number of stocks that tick up or down at the same time on the NYSE. ¬†Generally, extreme readings are a signs of more volatile markets, as stocks are all moving together at once, and correlations move higher. ¬†In the past 10 days, we have seen extreme readings at their highest level in a year: Next week is crucial in this regard. ¬†Though it&#8217;s a holiday week, there is an abundance of economic data, with the most focus obviously on the Payrolls report on Friday (with the Fed&#8217;s tapering comments lurking in the background). 3) ¬†Implied Volatility for Global Assets Above Average &#8211;¬†My weekly Vol Around the World Post highlights implied volatility levels for global assets. ¬†This week&#8217;s readings show that all major asset classes and geographies except crude oil have implied volatility priced above their 52 week averages: Given the global nature of the implied volatility increase (in contrast to the Fiscal Cliff movements of last fall), it is more likely to remain volatile across markets for some time. As long as these indicators continue to flash high volatility conditions, we will focus on option strategies that benefit from increased volatility. ¬†For now, with the VIX around 17, we still view implied volatility priced as relatively cheap compared to overall market movements. ¬†CC highlighted one structure we were eyeing in the VIX yesterday. ¬†Our bias remains in that direction until the evidence indicates otherwise. &nbsp; 			¬† 			Follow me on Twitter: @EnisTaner 			Email Me
A central idea, the¬†id√©e fixe¬†of Bankers Anonymous, is that as a society we do a poor job of teaching about finance, a consequently poor job as individuals of learning about finance, and therefore we all suffer an inevitable tendency to make bad decisions, both personal and political, about finance. Sometime this Spring I realized why: We played¬†Monopoly¬†all wrong as kids.¬† This explains everything that I‚Äôm trying to do with Bankers Anonymous. Two ‚Äòhouse rules‚Äô prevailed when I used to play,[1]¬†and both are absolutely terrible.[2]¬† 1.¬†Free Parking¬†‚Äì We collected all taxes ‚Äì luxury tax, income tax, and taxes accumulated from Chance and Community Chest cards ‚Äì in the middle of the board.¬†¬†In addition, we frequently ‚Äòseeded‚Äô Free Parking with an orange $500 bill.¬†¬†When a player landed on Free Parking he collected all the accumulated taxes, plus the $500, in a lottery windfall.¬†¬†None of this exists in the¬†real rules on Monopoly. 2.¬†No Property Auctions¬†‚Äì When we played, the player who landed on an available property got the exclusive option to purchase it, at the listed price only.¬†¬†In the real rules, if the initial player declines to pay the listed price, any player may bid on the property, at any price ‚Äì starting if necessary at $1, with no upper limit to the final auction price. These house rules turn an interesting game about capitalism into a boring monstrosity.¬†¬†A monstrosity responsible for societal poverty, government debt, runaway inflation and the Crisis of 2008.[3] Real rules Monopoly is so much better for society Let me explain why real rules Monopoly is far better. Free Parking¬†‚Äì Free Parking is stupid.¬†¬†Growing up, my friend Brendan always,¬†always,¬†ALWAYS landed on Free Parking, collecting the taxes and the $500.¬†¬†How did he do that?¬†¬†I have no idea.¬† Although he may have always won the game, I can be smug in my knowledge that Brendan learned bad lessons from Free Parking.¬†¬†Free Parking never happens in real life.¬†¬†Nobody actually wins the lottery. Clearly, Free Parking is a gateway drug for kids to learn about lotteries, casinos, and¬†all the other terrible ways in which poor people pay taxes.¬† Property Auctions¬†‚Äì This would have been the ideal way to teach millions of children about valuable concepts like savings, real estate, competitive auctions, distressed investing and slum-lording.¬†¬†Information, in other words, we can all use. Instead, by eliminating the auction, we learned in Monopoly house rules that there‚Äôs just one price for property, take it or leave it, and that chance ‚Äì rather than skill ‚Äì determines whether you accumulate valuable properties.¬†¬†But that‚Äôs never how it works in life. In real life, sometimes you can nab the property nobody else wants on the cheap.[4]¬†¬†In real life, sometimes you pay twice what the property is really worth and end up mortally wounded financially. Bidding wars can break out in real rules Monopoly, which lead the ‚Äòwinner‚Äô of the auction to actually be the ‚Äòloser‚Äô in the long run.¬†¬†This is a valuable financial lesson.¬†¬†It explains much of the real estate boom 2001 to 2007. Monopoly isn‚Äôt a bad game, if played right I was reminded of all this by¬†a recent feature on Business Insider¬†showing the odds-adjusted advantageous properties to buy.¬† According to the feature, to play the odds, in sum: 1. Buy the orange properties, 2. Build 3 houses per property at one time (i.e. 9 houses, for most colors) for the fastest return on investment, 3. Take into account the likely dice rolls of your opponents.¬†¬†(5, 6, 7, 8, and 9s happen more frequently, build accordingly), and 4. Note that ‚ÄúJail‚Äù acts as a ‚Äòsink,‚Äô attracting more than your typical proportion of landings.¬†¬†Other properties also have higher probabilities as landing spots, so invest accordingly. All sound advice. My advice is to play by the real rules, which turns Monopoly from an endless bore of a game to an interesting lesson in real financial skills. I‚Äôm not saying Monopoly will become as interesting as¬†The Settlers of Catan,¬†Dominion, or my own nerdy group‚Äôs favorite,¬†Cosmic Encounter.¬†¬†But it‚Äôs worthwhile, especially with kids. Epilogue¬†‚Äì The bad news: I played real rules Monopoly for the first time in my life this Spring with Brendan, as well as with my 7 year-old. My 7 year-old, with some coaching, won.¬†¬†At least Brendan didn‚Äôt win.¬†¬†I hate Monopoly.¬† [1]¬†I‚Äôve linked here to a site that explains the origin of the typical house rules for Monopoly.¬†¬†It turns out the rules were probably designed¬†to keep kids from getting upset with Dad during the game.¬†¬†As a Dad, that makes sense.¬†¬†But as an ex-banker, I‚Äôm livid since this encapsulates everything that‚Äôs wrong with Western Civilization. [2]¬†In my 100% invented-out-of-whole-cloth fake poll, 93% of American households adopted these same house rules.¬†¬†I‚Äôve rounded down to be conservative, because that‚Äôs just good science. [3]¬†Not to mention Obamacare, the designated hitter, and Renee Zellweger after¬†Jerry Maguire. [4]¬†When we played real rules Monopoly recently, Brendan and I cleverly avoided the railroads.¬†¬†Because: No houses!¬†¬†Meanwhile my 7 year-old picked them up on the cheap.¬†¬†Guess who won? ¬†
On June 3, I addressed this on¬†Fox Business News. Some of my comments were: Real Estate Consulting Real Estate Consulting I realize that rising mortgage rates aren't the best scenario for everyone, but slowing the acceleration in the housing market is in the best long-term interest of the country because it is really difficult to avoid overshooting to the upside. Also, can you really complain about a 4.5% mortgage rate?
Traders and bond market watchers are talking more and more about 1994, a year when interest rates exploded higher completely obliterating bond investors. The event also came with sell-off in stocks.¬† But that eventually turned into a buying opportunity. For months, the strategists at Deutsche Bank have been pushing this thesis as hawkish commentary from the Federal Reserve have sent Treasury rates higher. Here's a slide from the firm's latest "Equity View" report, summarizing their case: Deutsche Bank
It's turning into a rough Friday for the bond market. 5-year U.S. Treasury futures, which started running into some heavy selling as early as 7:35 AM, are now down 0.3%. The futures got taken down on a big trade just a few minutes ago. Check out the big spike in red volume on the sub-graph: Thinkorswim
BlackBerry's earnings for last quarter are out. Here are the highlights:
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueFederal Reserve Board of Governors member Jeremy Stein listens during an open board meeting at the Federal Reserve in Washington December 14, 2012. Stocks and bonds are both getting hit in futures trading this morning ahead of the opening bell. The selling in bonds started around 7:35 AM ET, while stocks took a sharp turn lower at 8 AM. S&amp;P 500 futures are now trading around 1604, down from 1612 prior to 8 AM. 5-year U.S. Treasury futures are trading right around 121'000, now in the red versus levels around 121'050 prior to 7:35. Federal Reserve Governor Jeremy Stein is speaking on monetary policy in New York this morning. His prepared comments were released at 8, but it's unclear whether markets are taking their cue from Stein. Stein said the FOMC shows a greater willingness to spell out the goals of quantitative easing, and that the 7% unemployment goal for ending bond-buying clarifies the Fed's intent. "There are limits to how much even good communication can do to limit market volatility, especially at times like these," said Stein in the speech. He also said that the FOMC should "be clear that in making a decision in, say, September, it will give primary weight to the large stock of news that has accumulated since the inception of the program and will not be unduly influenced by whatever data releases arrive in the few weeks before the meeting."
Things move quickly at the G-20 when markets go south. The turmoil following Chairman Bernankeís mere suggestion of a vague taper of the Fedís multi-year money-printing and bond-buying binge has already incited our illustrious finance gurus and central bankers at the G-20 to buckle, apparently. At prior meetings, they might have palavered uneasily about the easy money, trying not to call it a currency war when Japan began to flood its land with it. But now, they suddenly fear the opposite, namely an exit, or even the mere suggestion of a taper, given the mayhem it had already caused in the markets. So at their July meeting in Moscow, they will likely discuss how a taper might impact, say, emerging economies, according to unnamed Japanese officials, who leaked it to Dow Jones Newswires. And it would be ìquite possibleî that they will ask the IMF, if they havenít already, to study the spillover effects of a taper. Because itís not the right time to tighten. ìThatís the whole dilemma!î said William White, one of the few central-bank economists whoíd predicted the Financial Crisis with increasingly dire warnings when he headed the Monetary and Economic Department of the Bank for International Settlements (BIS). On its board, among other luminaries, sat the governors of the largest central banks in the world. Back then, his words were brushed off with that forced patience of the exasperated. ìFor 25 years, it has never been the right moment,î he told the Spiegel Online. ìItís always: Yes, in the long term we need to stop with the policy of cheap money and just piling on debt. But please not right now; now the economy must first get back on its feet. That was the response to the 1987 stock-market crash, the 1997 Asian crisis, the internet bubble implosion in 2001, and the world financial crisis of 2008.î Heíd spent over two decades at the Bank of Canada before joining the BIS in Basel, Switzerland, in 1994. While at the BIS, he criticized Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan for his easy-money theories and the speculative asset bubbles and busts they engendered. At the Kansas City Fedís annual meeting in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, in August 2003, he confronted the maestro, as the googly-eyed mainstream media still called Greenspan at the time, and challenged him: jack up interest rates when credit expands too fast and force banks to increase their capital cushions during fat years to use in lean years. ìWe started worrying about this at the same time that Alan Greenspan started worrying about irrational exuberance,î White later told Bloomberg. ìThe difference was he stopped worrying about it, or at least he stopped worrying about it publicly, and we didnít.î Unlike Bernanke, whoíd learned his lessons from the Great Depression, White learned his lessons from the vastly more relevant Japanese real-estate and stock-market bubbles in the 1980s, and their consequences, which heíd watched while at the Bank of Canada. But didnít the central banks, particularly the Fed, prevent an even worse worldwide recession with these easy-money policies? Yeah.... ìBut every time we fight the implosion of a speculative bubble with even more cheap money, we sow the seeds for the next even larger bubble,î he said. ìAll of the excess liquidity has to go somewhere.î And it went somewhere. That ìnext even larger bubbleî was already here, and we were in the middle of it, he said. ìThe stock market boom in Japan, followed by a sudden swoon. The prices of gold and other commodities, also with strong fluctuations. The gigantic flow of capital into emerging markets that is looking for investment opportunities there, and reacts very nervously at bad news. This volatility everywhere, thatís typical of a speculative bubble.î Bernankeís mere suggestion that the Fed might taper its money-printing operations just a bit was enough to throw worldwide financial markets into turmoil, he said. ìWhich at the same time is an argument for the financial lobby: ëSee, the economy is still so fragile, we really cannot burden it now with shocks.í My fear is that the central banks will once again follow this argument.î That financial lobby ñ representing the prime profiteers of central-bank money-printing operations ñ must already have wormed its way into the G-20 and scared the bejesus out of everyone, for it to buckle so quickly. For the financial lobby, itís simply never the right time to take the deliciously spiked punchbowl away, no matter how besotted the markets are. Or, as David Stockman wrote in his bestseller, The Great Deformation: The Corruption of Capitalism in America, ìAll of the checks and balances which ordinarily discipline the free market in money instruments and capital securities were being eviscerated by the Fedís actions.î With ìpernicious consequences, however.î Read.... How The Fed Got†Crameríd
BofAML Global Research, EPFR GlobalApparently this was the week where the rush for the exits in the bond market really hit a crescendo. In the week ended June 26, investors pulled a record $23.3 billion from bond funds. And it was a record across every type of fund: emerging markets, high yield, investment grade, and mortgage-backed securities funds all saw their largest weekly outflows ever. Bond funds shrank by 0.9% this week, marking the second-largest weekly loss on record in terms of assets under management. BofA Merrill Lynch Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett calls it "bond market liquidation" in a note to clients. Hartnett compares this week's outflows to the capitulation observed at the height of the financial crisis in October 2008. After falling 2.1% over four weeks leading into the big outflow, Treasuries rallied 5.2% over the next six weeks. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note hit a high of 2.64% on Monday, but the bonds have rallied this week, and the 10-year is now trading at 2.48%. Below is a breakdown of this week's flows, via Hartnett: Flows by Asset Class Bonds: largest ever $23.3bn outflows! ($58bn over 4 weeks) Equities: $13.1bn outflows ($6.4bn via ETF's and $6.7bn via LO funds) Precious metals: $2.8bn outflows (20 straight weeks);¬†MMF: $4.3bn inflows¬† Flows by Fixed Income Sector  Largest ever outflows from EM debt funds ($5.6bn or 2.3% of AUM); intensity of EM debt redemptions now only exceeded by 2008 melt-down (Chart 3)¬† Largest ever outflows from Munis ($4.5bn); Largest ever outflows from IG funds ($4.9bn); Largest ever outflows from HY funds ($6.8bn); Largest ever outflows from MBS funds ($1.3bn); 53 straight weeks of inflows to leveraged loan funds ($1.1bn)¬† Flows by Equity Region $5.8bn outflows from EM equity funds, just shy of "hard" buy signal; But 4w outflows of 2.7% AUM is huge and argues a "soft" buy signal has been triggered for EM, especially in conjunction with our Global Breadth Rule. Last "soft" buy signal triggered in Feb'13, after which EEM bounced 10% over nxt 6w Interestingly, Brazil sees first inflows in 18 weeks ($0.4bn) $3.9bn outflows from US equity funds; modest $0.4bn outflows from Europe;¬†$0.5bn inflows to Japan (now 23 straight weeks)¬†
REUTERS/Brian SnyderImmigrants stand for the invocation during a naturalization ceremony to become new U.S. citizens at Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts March 21, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
The euro traded above yesterday's high in Asia and early Europe, but stalled in front of Wednesday's high just shy of $1.31. Sterling is trading in the lower end of yesterday's ranges. The Australian dollar slipped through yesterday's lows, though remains almost a cent above the multi-year low seen at the start of the week just below $1.09150. Follow through buying from the key reversal on Monday has been disappointing. The weakest currency ahead of the weekend, though is the Japanese yen. The dollar is trading near 3 week highs, just above JPY99.00. A slew of Japanese data mostly surprised on the upside. The manufacturing PMI rose to 52.3 in June, a two year high. Industrial output for 2.0%. The market expected only a 0.2% increase. Retail sales rose 0.8% in year-over-year in May, recovering from the 0.2% decline in April. The pace of deflation in the national CPI (May) was halved to 0.3% from 0.7%, though the Tokyo figures for June was flat year-over-year, which is its best reading in almost two years. Excluding food and energy though, Tokyo CPI stood at -0.4% from -0.3% in May, warning that deflation forces have not been overcome yet. Japan's Tankan survey is out first thing Monday in Tokyo and is widely expected to show improvement. Yesterday, the MOF figures showed foreign investors returned to buying Japanese shares, after have sold a small amount the previous week. Patience was rewarded and today's 3.5% rise in the Nikkei was sufficient to offset in full the losses in the first four sessions of the week. The news stream from Europe was also mostly positive. French household consumption rose 0.5% to post its second consecutive monthly rise, defying expectations of a 0.1% decline. German retail sales rebounded to 0.8%, twice what the market expected, following the 0.1% decline in April. Some modest progress is being seen at the European summit. German inflation appears to have ticked up and this too must be understood as a favorable development for the euro area as a whole. The low inflation in Germany in effect exports deflation to the euro area, especially the periphery. The somewhat firmer inflation in Germany, though we are still talking about less than 2%, can help others regain some competitiveness over time. Although most observers emphasize the benefits of a weaker euro from the periphery, the inflation differentials can be just as important if not more so. Of course, the key measure here is unit labor costs, but higher German CPI is also helpful in this context and within reason. Separately, Norway and Sweden also reported better than expected retail sales. There has only been a muted reaction to the news and both the respective currencies have slipped a bit against the euro. The North American session features the Chicago PMI and the University of Michigan's consumer confidence. The former is expected to slip a bit, but remain well above the 50 boom/bust level. The interesting aspect of the consumer confidence survey is the inflation expectations component. Over the past several weeks the inflation expectations seen in the TIPS has fallen. However, we see the position adjustments as the driving force, overwhelming fair value, especially in the less liquid market segments Another way of conceptualizing it, is that the noise to signal ratio contained in prices may be greater than usual. Survey data is another way to triangulate the signal. We suspect that inflation expectations have not fallen as much as some market-based measures, like TIPS may suggest. ¬† Several ¬†Fed officials speak too (Stern, Lacker and Williams). ¬†However, in recent days, there underlying theme has been the same: ¬†Fed is not tightening and the upcoming data is more important than any particular time frame, which many observers, including ourselves, see confused last week in Bernanke's remarks. ¬† Canada reports April monthly GDP figures. A 0.1% rise is expected for a 1.4% year-over-year pace. This would be a touch slower than March and is unlikely to do the Canadian dollar any favors. The US dollar is slightly firmer against the Canadian dollar today, but is within yesterday's ranges. The greenback may retest the air above CAD1.05, but ahead of the weekend, it is likely to prove limited. Lastly, note that the IMF's COFER data, proving insight into reserve allocation is expected later today. It is reported with a quarter lag and tends not to move markets. What will be interesting this time, though, is that the IMF will break out the Australian and Canadian dollars from the "other" category. They will now be listed along side the dollar, euro, sterling, yen and Swiss franc. It is descriptive accounting of what central banks (who report currency allocation of their reserves) have done. It is not a normative claim. On the other hand, it is just as important to note what is not being broken out, the Chinese yuan, which some observers, have highlight to be the up and coming reserve asset. The data suggests--not really, not yet.        Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
REUTERSThat's probably your next Fed Chair(wo)man back there.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The White House has assembled a short list of candidates to succeed Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, a source familiar with the process said on Thursday, and U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew is running the search. Bernanke is expected to leave when his second term as head of the central bank ends on January 31, after an eventful eight years in helping the U.S. economy recover from the worst recession since the Great Depression. President Barack Obama hinted in a television interview this month that Bernanke would step down, comparing him to longtime FBI Director Robert Mueller, who agreed to stay two years longer in the job than he had planned, and is now to leave. Lew has assembled a short list with help from several senior White House officials, the source said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. There was no information on who is on the list, although Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen, former Obama adviser Lawrence Summers and former Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner are considered to be likely leading choices. "We decline to comment on speculation on any personnel matters until the president has made his decisions and is ready to announce them," said Amy Brundage, a White House spokeswoman. "The president believes that Chairman Bernanke is a vital and excellent partner in promoting our economic recovery and he continues to serve admirably and with distinction during this important time for our country," she said. BERNANKE SILENT; YELLEN SEEN IN THE LEAD Bernanke has yet to say whether he would like to serve another four years at the helm of the central bank, but has done little to dampen speculation he is ready to leave. The likely succession could come at a delicate juncture for U.S. monetary policy. Bernanke said last week that the central bank expected to lighten up later this year on the amount of money it is pumping into the economy each month through a bond-buying program. He said the Fed would likely draw that program to a full close around the middle of next year, when policymakers at the central bank expect the jobless rate will have fallen to around 7 percent from its current 7.6 percent. Those comments spurred a big selloff in stock markets around the globe and sent the yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note soaring. It reached a 22-month high of 2.67 percent on Monday. Fed officials have mounted a concerted effort to convince markets they overreacted to the chairman's remarks, and they have underscored the central bank's commitment to keep overnight interest rate near zero until unemployment drops to at least 6.5 percent. Stock markets have since stabilized and bond yields have fallen back. The market volatility, however, underscored the tricky task the Fed faces in stepping away from the controversial and unprecedented easing of monetary policy Bernanke led. To combat the deep recession and heal the scars from the financial crisis that followed the bursting of the U.S. housing bubble, the Fed pressed overnight rates to near zero, where they have been since December 2008. It also more than tripled its balance sheet to $3.4 trillion through a series of bond purchases. The next chairman of the central bank will likely face the task of unwinding that monetary largesse. In a Reuters poll of economists earlier this month, the vast majority said Obama was likely to tap Yellen to take over. Yellen, who has served as Fed vice chair since October 2010, is considered a forceful advocate of aggressive action to lift unemployment. If nominated and confirmed by the Senate, she would be the first woman to lead the central bank. (Reporting by Steve Holland; Writing by Douwe Miedema and Tim Ahmann; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) SEE ALSO: A Woman You've Never Heard Of Is About To Become The Most Powerful In The World
REUTERS / Maxim ShemetovYour seat is waiting, Mr. Snowden.DAKAR (Reuters) - U.S. President Barack Obama said on Thursday he would not start "wheeling and dealing" with China and Russia over a U.S. request to extradite former American spy agency contractor Edward Snowden. Obama, who appeared concerned that the case would overshadow his three-country tour of Africa begun in Senegal, also dismissed suggestions that the United States might try to intercept Snowden if he were allowed to leave Moscow by air. "No, I'm not going to be scrambling jets to get a 29-year-old hacker," he told a news conference in Dakar, a note of disdain in his voice. Snowden turned 30 last week. Obama said regular legal channels should suffice to handle the U.S. request that Snowden, who left Hong Kong for Moscow, be returned to the United States. He said he had not yet spoken to China's President Xi Jinping or Russian President Vladimir Putin about the issue. "I have not called President Xi personally or President Putin personally and the reason is ... number one, I shouldn't have to," Obama said sharply. "Number two, we've got a whole lot of business that we do with China and Russia, and I'm not going to have one case of a suspect who we're trying to extradite suddenly being elevated to the point where I've got to start doing wheeling and dealing and trading on a whole host of other issues." Snowden fled the United States to Hong Kong in May, a few weeks before publication in the Guardian and the Washington Post of details he provided about secret U.S. government surveillance of Internet and phone traffic. The American, who faces espionage charges in the United States and has requested political asylum in Ecuador, has not been seen since his arrival in Moscow on Sunday. Russian officials said he was in a transit area at Sheremetyevo airport. A Russian immigration source close to the matter said Snowden had not sought a Russian visa and there was no order from the Russian Foreign Ministry or Putin to grant him one. CHARGES OF U.S. HYPOCRISY Snowden's case has raised tensions between the United States and both China and Russia. On Thursday, Beijing accused Washington of hypocrisy over cyber security. Obama's remarks in Senegal seemed calibrated to exert pressure without leading to lasting damage in ties with either country. "The more the administration can play it down, the more latitude they'll have in the diplomatic arena to work out a deal for him (Snowden)," said Andy Smith, director of the University of New Hampshire Survey Center. Obama indicated that damage to U.S. interests was largely limited to revelations from Snowden's initial leak. "I continue to be concerned about the other documents that he may have," Obama said. "That's part of the reason why we'd like to have Mr. Snowden in custody." Still, Snowden's disclosures of widespread eavesdropping by the U.S. National Security Agency in China and Hong Kong have given Beijing considerable ammunition in an area that has been a major irritant between the countries. China's defense ministry called the U.S. government surveillance program, known as Prism, "hypocritical behavior." "This 'double standard' approach is not conducive to peace and security in cyber space," the state news agency Xinhua reported, quoting ministry spokesman Yang Yujun. In Washington, the top U.S. military officer dismissed comparisons of Chinese and American snooping in cyber space. "All nations on the face of the planet always conduct intelligence operations in all domains," Army General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told an audience at the Brookings Institution. "China's particular niche in cyber has been theft and intellectual property." Dempsey said. "Their view is that there are no rules of the road in cyber, there's nothing, there's no laws they are breaking, there's no standards of behavior." In Ecuador, the leftist government of President Rafael Correa said it was waiving preferential rights under a U.S. trade agreement to demonstrate what it saw as its principled stand on Snowden's asylum request. Correa told reporters Snowden's situation was "complicated" because he has not been able to reach Ecuadorean territory to begin processing the asylum request. "In order to do so, he must have permission of another country, which has not yet happened," Correa said. In a deliberately provocative touch, Correa's government also offered a multimillion dollar donation for human rights training in the United States. The U.S. State Department warned of "grave difficulties" for U.S.-Ecuador relations if the Andean country were to grant Snowden asylum, but gave no specifics. "USEFUL" CONVERSATIONS Obama said the United States expected all countries that were considering asylum requests for the former contractor to follow international law. The White House said last week that Hong Kong's decision to let Snowden leave would hurt U.S.-China relations. Its rhetoric on Russia has been somewhat less harsh. Putin has rejected U.S. calls to expel Snowden to the United States and said the American should choose his destination and leave the Moscow airport as soon as possible. Obama acknowledged that the United States did not have an extradition treaty with Russia, but said such a treaty was not necessary to resolve all of the issues involved. He characterized conversations between Washington and Moscow as "useful." Washington is focused on how Snowden, a former systems administrator for the contractor Booz Allen Hamilton, gained access to National Security Agency secrets while working at a facility in Hawaii. NSA Director Keith Alexander on Thursday offered a more detailed breakdown of 54 schemes by militants that he said were disrupted by phone and internet surveillance, even as the Guardian newspaper reported evidence of more extensive spying. In a speech in Baltimore, Alexander said a list of cases turned over recently to the U.S. Congress included 42 that involved disrupted plots and 12 in which surveillance targets provided material support to terrorism. The Guardian reported that the NSA for years collected masses of raw data on the email and Internet traffic of U.S. citizens and residents, citing a top-secret draft report on the program prepared by NSA's inspector general. (Additional reporting by Brian Ellsworth and Alexandra Valencia in Quito, Lidia Kelly and Steve Gutterman in Moscow, Sui-Lee Wee in Beijing, Deborah Charles in Baltimore and Steve Holland, Laura MacInnis and Mark Hosenball in Washington; Writing by Jeff Mason and Christopher Wilson; Editing by Mike Collett-White and Tim Dobbyn)

REUTERS / Mike HutchingsStill defiant.PARIS (Reuters) - Disgraced cyclist Lance Armstrong, who cheated his way to seven Tour de France victories from 1999-2005, claims it would have been impossible to win the world's greatest race without doping. Asked if riders won races drugs-free in the era when he competed, a bullish Armstrong told French daily Le Monde on Friday: "It depends on the races. The Tour de France? No. Impossible to win without doping. "My name was taken out of the palmares (list of achievements) but the Tour was held between 1999 and 2005 wasn't it? There must be a winner then. Who is he? Nobody came forward to claim my jerseys." Five-times Tour champion Bernard Hinault was quick to react, the Frenchman telling local TV channel BFM: "He must not know what it was like to ride without doping." Last year, the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) published a report into Armstrong's doping program, calling it "the most sophisticated in the history of sport", leading to the American being banned for life and losing his Tour titles. "I did not invent doping. Sorry, Travis," the 41-year-old Texan said, referring to USADA CEO Travis Tygart. "And it (doping) has not stopped with me. I just took part in the system. "The USADA 'reasoned decision' perfectly managed to destroy a man's life but it has not benefited cycling at all." Armstrong also hit out at the International Cycling Union (UCI), who have been heavily criticized for allegedly covering up for the American. "(UCI president) Pat McQuaid can say and think what he wants. Things just cannot change as long as McQuaid stays in power," he said. "The UCI refuses to establish a 'Truth and Reconciliation commission' because the testimony that everyone would want to hear would bring McQuaid, (his predecessor) Hein Verbruggen and the whole institution down," he added without elaborating. The 2013 Tour de France starts on Saturday. (Reporting by Julien Pretot; Editing by John O'Brien)
The stock market has staged a relief rally over the last three days as various Fed officials have tried to walk back Bernanke‚Äôs statement that implied a tightening of monetary policy.¬† In addition the first quarter GDP revision that indicated a slower economy gave investors hope that a Fed withdrawal of stimulus would occur later rather than sooner.¬† Adding to the mix was China‚Äôs injection of funds to various lending institutions in response to soaring short-term lending rates. ¬†However, we believe that a slower U.S. economy is nothing to cheer about, while China‚Äôs economic and financial problems are too deep-seated for any instant cure. Although others talk about an improving U.S. economy, it is not happening.¬† The second revision of first quarter GDP reduced the annualized growth rate to only 1.8% from a previously reported 2.4%.¬† Although the data in the report is now a few months old, it signifies that the economy entered the current quarter with slackening momentum that has continued.¬† Most of the reduced growth rate was a result of consumer spending growth dropping to 2.6% from the 3.4% reported in the first revision. Moreover, final domestic demand grew a meager 1.3%, compared to the prior estimate of 1.9%.¬† This is a distinct slowdown from the average growth of about 2% that had been the case since mid-2010. The slowing momentum has carried over into the second quarter as well.¬† Real consumer spending dropped 0.1% in April and rose 0.2% in May.¬† As a result, even a 0.2% increase in June would bring second quarter spending to only a 1.6% gain for the quarter, compared to 2.6% in the prior quarter.¬† Since consumer spending accounts for about 70% of GDP, it now appears that GDP in the current quarter will not even match the meager 1.8% rate of the first quarter.¬† While this outcome will likely mean a delay in the Fed‚Äôs plans to pare their bond-buying program, we doubt that an even further slowdown of an already inadequate economic growth rate will be looked at kindly by the market. In addition, China‚Äôs economic and financial problems are also likely to impact the U.S. and the rest of the world.¬† China‚Äôs massive stimulus over the last few years into industry and infrastructure has built hugely excessive capacity that is generating little or no returns.¬† Soaring debt associated with the buildup was hidden by new loans, much of it done through the shadow banking system.¬† The Chinese central bank, fearing a credit bust that would hit an already slowing economy, has recently attempted to rein in runaway financing.¬† But the attempt resulted in short-term lending rates suddenly soaring into double digits from the 3.5% in force for most of May.¬† This happened at about the same time that Bernanke raised the prospect of curtailing QE, and contributed to the decline in the U.S. stock market.¬† China‚Äôs central bank was then forced into injecting funds into some financial institutions to ameliorate the sudden credit squeeze that threatened the economy.¬† This also coincided with the Fed‚Äôs attempt to walk back some of its previous tightening talk, and contributed to the bounce-back rally in the stock market. In our view, China‚Äôs move to temper the credit squeeze is only a temporary Band-Aid.¬† The nation‚Äôs corporate debt alone is almost 200% of GDP.¬† Massive overcapacity exists in a wide number of major industries such as chemicals, cement, steel, autos, aluminum, shipbuilding, and metals smelting at a time when its export growth rate is declining.¬† As a result they have also had to cut purchases of raw materials from the rest of the world, creating slowdowns or recessions in nations dependent on sales of commodities.¬† All in all, this is a situation that cannot end well for either China or most other nations. ¬†¬†  In sum we believe that the deteriorating economic and financial situation in the U.S. and the rest of the world will result in a major market decline.¬† Although investors now view any delay in the Fed‚Äôs plans to cut back QE as positive, we think that the opposite is the case.¬† An economy that is too weak for the Fed pare back their bond-buying program would be highly negative for corporate earnings and probably push the economy into undesirable deflation as well.¬† This is not a situation that is conducive to a robust stock market. ¬†
There had been talk, recently, of "green shoots" (so to speak) in the Greek economy. This strongly suggests otherwise. Latest retail sales numbers from Greece are horrific. #Greece The retail trade volume index, including automotive fuel, decreased by 14.2% in April 2013 compared with April 2012 Greek retail sales -14.2% in April vs -5.8% in March. Scale of fall back towards the worst levels of the multi-year depression.
REUTERS/Fred Prouser Brazilian Eike Batista, chairman and CEO of EBX Group, gestures as he is introduced as one of the world's wealthiest men, prior to the "Global Overview: Shifting Fortunes" lunch panel discussion at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California April 30, 2012. SAO JO√O DA BARRA, Brazil (Reuters) - As Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista's EBX industrial empire crumbles, it increasingly resembles his most visible accomplishment, the Port of AÁu. In other words, a pile of sand in the middle of a swamp. To build the $2 billion iron ore and oil terminal, shipyard and industrial park 300 kilometers (190 miles) north of Rio de Janeiro, the world's largest dredging ship cut through the beach and dug 13 kilometers (8 miles) of docks out of dune and marsh. To keep tenants dry, the sandy waste is being piled as much as 5 meters over the surrounding flood plain. The complex, one and a half times the size of Manhattan, has another 3-kilometer pier that can dock half a dozen of the world's largest tankers and freighters at the same time. Yet despite all that work, in a country desperate for ports and other heavy infrastructure, investors consider the three EBX companies with stakes in AÁu's success nearly worthless. All but one of EBX's six traded companies has lost more than 90 percent of their value compared with record highs, and the bonds of oil company OGX Petroleo e Gas SA, EBX's flagship unit, are trading at levels that suggest default is imminent. Batista, one of Brazil's most successful entrepreneurs during a decade-long commodities boom, has had to watch one of the world's largest fortunes disappear. Only last year, when Forbes ranked his fortune the world's seventh biggest, he boasted he would become the world's richest man. Brazil, which during the boom grew at its fastest pace in three decades, has stagnated. Talk of a "Brazilian miracle" has been replaced by nationwide street protests against corruption. Batista's personal fortune has shrunk by more than $20 billion, knocking him from the top of Brazil's wealth list and making him a merely average billionaire. "Batista's situation is pretty awesome in the true sense of the word," said Chris Kettenmann, oil and gas analyst with Prime Executions, a New York stock brokerage. "It's spectacular to see how much value has been eroded." The EBX ventures in oil, shipbuilding, energy and transportation may survive in a slimmed-down form. Batista, though, is unlikely to control them, being forced instead to sell his stakes to pay debt. Batista is looking for buyers for all or part of his 27 percent stake in MMX Mineracao e Met·licos SA, his iron ore mining company, as well as in his 62 percent stake in coal company CCX Carv„o da Colombia SA, a source linked to the EBX Group told Reuters on Tuesday. He's also trying to sell his privately held AUX gold mining company, the source said. On Tuesday, Brazil's Valor Economico daily newspaper said Glencore Xstrata Plcand Brazilian investment bank BTG Pactual SAwere considering a bid for Batista's stake in MMX. The Folha de S.Paulo newspaper said Dutch transportation and logistics company Trafigura Beheer BVwas doing due diligence for a possible bid. Neither paper named the source of their reports. EBX turned down requests to interview Batista and other group executives. See graphic on collapse of Batista's empire. http://link.reuters.com/cap29t In the past year the "synergies" and financial links between EBX companies that helped Batista sell about $7 billion of stock to minority investors since 2006 became liabilities. In June 2012, oil company OGX revealed output from its first field was lower than expected, raising concern that OSX Brasil SA'sshipyard would get fewer orders from OGX, its main client. As OSX is an anchor tenant at AÁu, owned by EBX's LLX Logistica SA, LLX stock also fell. And the dominoes keep falling, thanks in part to high debt levels at EBX companies and a lack of transparency in deals with Batista's personal holding company, Centennial Investments. While Batista has offered to buy more OSX and OGX stock to calm minority investors, he also has brought in outside help. In March 2012, Batista sold 5.63 percent of Centennial to Mubadala Development Corp., the Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund, for $2 billion. What Batista didn't say at the time was that he agreed to give up an unspecified stake in EBX to Mubadala if its investment in Centennial didn't provide a 5 percent annual return, a report by Bloomberg News said in December. Since then, speculation mounted that Batista is struggling to meet the Mubadala terms as well as those of his own bankers. Batista's Centennial also sold 0.8 percent to General Electric in May 2012. Mubadala owns a GE stake. In the face of such doubt, not even the injection of more than $1 billion in rescue capital from Malaysian oil company Petronasin May, and in March from German utility E.ON SEand fellow Brazilian billionaire Andre Esteves' investment bank, BTG Pactual, halted EBX's slide. Batista's debt, or "leverage," is high, said Frank Holmes, chief executive of U.S. Global Investors of San Antonio, Texas, who has known Batista since the late 1980s. At the end of March, long-term debt levels at OGX, MPX, OSX and LLX, which owns AÁu, were more than three times the median levels for similar companies and a third to a fifth of each company's total capital. These levels imply high risk. With no positive cash flow and no profit, paying debt requires EBX companies to spend cash that would be better used to complete projects and boost revenue. State development bank BNDESand Brazil's Merchant Marine Fund have lent or offered loans to EBX. They might step in to protect their investment, but the revenue stream promised to pay debts has been delayed by Brazilian bureaucracy and Batista's own management failures. "The guy leveraged everything, and the bankers and everyone else believed in his vision. It's easy to do this," Holmes said. Now those believers aren't so sure. Since March, OGX bonds due in 2018and 2022have steadily lost value. Starting June 5, they plunged to less than a third of face value, a level signaling increasing chances of a default. In May, Batista sold 70.5 million shares in OGX for $57 million, cutting his stake to 59 percent from 61 percent, selling for less than a third of what he has promised to pay for new shares. This promise, known as a put option, requires Batista to buy up to $1 billion of OGX stock at 6.30 reais a share by April 30, 2014 if the OGX board thinks it is needed. Fitch Rating Service almost immediately downgraded the debt of OGX to "CCC," meaning it is at high risk of default. Selling stock below the put price raised speculation Batista doesn't have the cash to honor his promise. "The rating downgrades reflect increased uncertainty about the willingness and ability of OGX controlling shareholder Mr. Eike Batista to honor the company's $1 billion put option," Fitch wrote. "Funding for OGX's capex program is vital to increasing oil production, so a default on the put option would further tighten the company's liquidity position." A week after the downgrade, three OGX board members who would decide if OSX needed the cash from Batista's put option quit. The high-profile trio rank among Brazil's most respected financial, political and legal leaders: Pedro Malan, a former long-serving Brazilian finance minister; Rodolfo Tourinho, a former energy minister; and Ellen Gracie, a former chief justice of Brazil's Supreme Court. Batista, though, is honoring another put option. In October he agreed to supply up to $1 billion to shipbuilder OSX by March 23, 2014. On Tuesday he bought 183 million reais ($81.1 million) of OSX stock, two-thirds of the $120 million requested in May. He must give minority investors until July 2 to buy up a lot of shares equal to half his purchase, but buyers are unlikely. Batista paid 40.14 reais a share and OSX closed Tuesday at 1.36 reais, meaning Batista will have to come up with about 60 million reais more, based on the deal's exchange rate. Holmes believes Batista's problem is primarily one of management. A decade ago similar missteps forced Batista to sell TVX Gold to Kinross Gold Corp.after promising gold projects in Russia and Greece wound up in court. "I really respect Eike as a visionary entrepreneur, a trailblazer. He's not a cheat, he's not a liar," Holmes said. "Where the screw-up is, is the execution." Indeed, nearly all top managers at EBX Companies have changed in the last year. And he's faced lawsuits from at last one former chief executive. "There's an old expression," Holmes said. "'If you don't execute, Mr. Market will execute you.'" Holmes, who never bought EBX Group shares because he considered them too expensive, said EBX prices have now fallen so far that it may be time for another look. Back at AÁu, Batista's problems continue. OSX, the shipbuilder, may have failed to make a 500 million real ($222 million) payment to Spain's Acciona, a contractor at the site, local paper Folha de S.Paulo reported. OGX denied the report on Monday. "I don't know what will happen to Batista," Julio Bueno, the Rio de Janeiro state secretary for economic development whose government has helped him expropriate land for the port, said in an interview. "We need the port, and other investors want to build ports nearby. Will the port still get built? Yes. Is it a good idea? Yes. Will Batista own it? That I can't say." ($1 = 2.22 Brazilian reais) (Additional reporting by Herb Lash in New York and Guillermo Parra-Bernal in Sao Paulo and Sabrina Lorenzi in Rio de Janeiro; Editing by Todd Benson and Douglas Royalty) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
REUTERS / CDICSichuan Swellfun baijuSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Investor confidence was growing that China's credit conditions were improving as cash rates extended their fall after last week's credit crunch, and stocks rose by the most in two months on brisk buying of property and financial shares on Friday. The central bank, which had let short-term borrowing costs spike to record highs to drive home a message to banks that they could no longer count on cheap cash to fund riskier operations, said it would ensure policy supported a slowing economy. "China's current economic and financial operations and consumer prices are generally stable, all of which show prudent monetary policy is appropriate and producing good results," People's Bank of China (PBOC) Governor Zhou Xiaochuan told a financial forum. Without making direct references to the cash crunch, which saw rates spike as high as 28 percent, Zhou said policy settings were appropriate and the PBOC would balance the need to reform China's economy with the need to keep growth on an even keel. Commercial bankers have also described as exaggerated fears that they would turn off the taps on new lending after the cash crunch scare and reduce the flow of funds to the already slowing economy. They say the crackdown on the practice of funding riskier activities in the so-called shadow banking system with short-term cash would have little bearing on regular lending, which is determined by the amount of deposits banks attract. Earlier this week, the central bank moved to allay fears that the crunch could escalate into a financial crisis, bringing some calm to markets after days of turbulence and heavy stock market losses, and it reiterated that message on Friday. HALF FULL Friday's bounce showed some investors had shrugged off their pessimism and were increasingly seeing their glass as half full, at least for now. The index of the largest Shanghai and Shenzhen stocksclosed up 1.85 percent, their biggest daily rise since April 24, buoyed by a 4 percent jump in property stocksand rebounds in smaller banks, which were hardest hit by the recent sharp sell-off. Still, the index fell 5 percent over the week and lost 15.6 percent in June. Analysts say overall sentiment remains fragile given concerns about funding conditions ahead and China's longer-term economic outlook. "The problems, such as excessive credit growth, shadow banking activities and local debt remain and will not go away overnight," said Ben Kwong, KSI Asia Ltd's chief operating officer in Hong Kong. Alex Wong, director of asset management at Ample Finance in Hong Kong, said the central bank's actions and words convinced investors that Beijing even appeared ready to risk missing its 7.5 percent growth target -- a two-decade low -- to curb worrisome expansion of unregulated credit. "The authorities sent a message to the market, and people will probably be very cautious in lending and even borrowing." Money traders also said the market was not quite out of the woods yet, even as fears of a prolonged crunch faded. The weighted average for the benchmark seven-day repo rate was down around 60 points to 6.16 percent -- almost half of last Thursday's record 11.62 percent, but still well above its usual range of 3-4 percent. The overnight rate fell about half a percentage point to 4.96 percent. "There will still be lots of cash demand in the first half of July, including the need to set aside reserves based on end-June deposits and to pay cash dividends to stock investors," said a dealer at a Chinese commercial bank in Shanghai. "Overall market sentiment remains very cautious." (Additional reporting by Yimou Lee in HONG KONG; Writing by Tomasz Janowski; Editing by John Mair) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
A bit of strategic opining from Goldman Here on the recent market moves. ¬†In short, they think the markets overreacted to the recent Fed talk and that it‚Äôs created a buying opportunity in stocks (via Zero Hedge):
The final day of the quarter is shaping up to be a green one. Markets are flat to up. US futures are positive to the tune of just under 0.5%. Germany is up modestly. Italy is flat. Shanghai gained 1.5%. And the big winner was Japan, which had a huge session. Nikkei.com There are two significant economic datapoints coming up later today: Chicago PMI and University of Michigan Economic Sentiment.
