The comment, earlier today, from the Japanese Economics Minister, Akira Amari, that the Yen exchange rate was now ‚Äú in line with fundamentals‚Äù, and the market‚Äôs quick back-up reaction, got me a laugh, and has me thinking. Have things changed so much? Or is this just an illusion? It was not long ago that we had the complete reverse of what we have today. Prior to 2009, markets were the dominate forces that determined the outcome of ‚Äúthings‚Äù. Government leaders and finance officials have been talking for decades, they never got markets to ‚Äúbehave‚Äù as they wanted to before. That‚Äôs completely changed. At least that appears to be the case. As an example, consider what Mario Draghi accomplished last summer by merely mentioning the word ‚Äúunlimited‚Äù. The markets immediately bowed to the new, all powerful, Deity. Those markets are still in subservient mode, yet Draghi never really did a thing, except talk. The underlying problems in the EU are worse today than last summer, but the financial crisis has functionally disappeared. As far as the efficacy of Central Bank currency intervention is concerned, one need look no farther than the utter failure of the BOJ to contain the appreciate of the Yen over three decades. It tried to talk the market up, it intervened again and again, but the Yen continued to rise. For many years, the market conclusion was that the more the BOJ bought -¬† the more the market would demand. My observation: The BOJ was on the defense all those years, it was never on offense. A central bank that gives up the offense to the market, creates a situation where the market will exploit the weakness in an attempt to make a profit.  Note: The Bank of England‚Äôs big losses in the 90‚Ä≤s to the FX market, as well¬† the endless money that was made from 1970 through 2011 at the expense of the Swiss National Bank, are other example of CBs that were on the defense, and fed the ‚Äúkitty‚Äù for the markets. Where ever you look around the globe today you see evidence that the monetary authorities have achieved the offensive. They have complete control of both the direction and volatility of markets. The best evidence of this dominance is Bernanke‚Äôs magic of setting the return on tens of trillions of dollars of long term securities at rates that will produce a negative return against inflation. There can be no other conclusion, but that the US capital market has folded its cards, and Bernanke has won. At least for now. This takes us back to Mr.¬†Amari‚Äôs comments today. He thinks that now that we have had a back up in the Yen crosses, the FX markets should just go to sleep, and trade in narrow ranges. As of now, the markets are again bowing and scraping to this type of talk.¬† It could turn out differently. It might just be that those finance types in Tokyo have unleashed some very powerful forces. These forces will not get contained by talk that things are now ‚Äúbalanced‚Äù. Two factors: - The market is very well aware of the fact that BOJ WILL NOT stop additional Yen depreciation by reverse intervention (at least not for the next 1o big figures). This reality sets up an asymmetrical risk situation. There is no ‚Äúlid‚Äù on USDYEN. - The ‚Äúmarket‚Äù has made a true fortune on the short side of the Yen trade the past six months. This ‚Äúmade‚Äù a few big firm‚Äôs year. This set-up ALWAYS leads the market players, who now have a big pile of chips in front of them thanks to the ‚Äúhouse‚Äù, to press on with the betting. We have in front of us what might prove to be the first test of the new found ‚Äúdominance‚Äù of the CBs and the talkers.¬† I think it‚Äôs likely that USDYEN moves up another 10%. That could happen pretty quickly. There is nothing in the way, and the argument that an FX rate is now ‚Äúfair‚Äù, is irrelevant. The simple fact is, there is money to be made on the short side. It‚Äôs just a question of timing. In the immediate future there is a real question for the dollar. What‚Äôs going to happen with the debt limit and related issues? Will America shoot itself in the foot? With that in the air, the USDYEN, and the Yen crosses, might take a breather for a spell. But I think it will prove to be a pause in the action. The Yen is going to get cheaper. Cheaper than the Japanese want. Cheaper than America wants. Cheaper than the EU, China and the BRICs want. When that happens, it will be fair to ask:  ‚ÄúAre those talkers and CB‚Äôs really in charge? Or was that just a phase we passed through?‚Äù  And if so, ‚ÄúWho‚Äôs next?‚Äù
Bloomberg via YouTubeBrad Hintz, Sanford BernsteinBrad Hintz, a bank analyst at Sanford Bernstein &amp; Co., is almost certain that U.S. Treasuries will get downgraded. "It is hard to avoid the conclusion that the US Treasury's rating eventually fall ñ if not now then sometime in the future," he wrote in a note emailed to Business Insider. "Political deadlock; creative government accounting; optimistic economic projections underlying budget projections; and leaders who appear to have never read Paul Samuelson, Adam Smith or John Maynard Keynes: Combine this with politicians on both sides of the aisle, who appear to relish playing games with the US economy while daring the capital markets to react, and you have a prescription for an eventual downgrade." But how would the markets, particularly the Treasury markets, react to a downgrade? "We believe it's unlikely that there will be a massive flight from US Treasury securities if the US is downgraded," wrote Hintz.† "The big holders of US debt, i.e., the Chinese, the Russians, the Japanese, the Hong Kong and Singapore Monetary Authorities and the largest developed market central banks have positions that are simply too big to move." HoustonZoo / YoutubeTo better understand this, Hintz offers a fun analogy: Essentially, these central banks face the classic "elephant in a swimming pool" problem. An elephant cannot leave a swimming pool without lowering the level of the water in the pool. And it cannot enter a pool without raising the level of the water. In the case of the foreign central banks' currency reserves (the elephant), there are only two bond markets (i.e. swimming pools), i.e., the US dollar market and the Euro denominated bond market, that are large enough to accept the banks' massive currency holdings. And these central banks cannot move their reserves from investments in Treasury to investments in Bunds without incurring massive trading and transaction costs.† This "elephant" is stuck with dollars, and Treasuries remain the safest place to invest dollars ñ so perhaps marginally less buying by the central banks but only marginally. Regarding those marginal sellers: "There certainly will be selling, but it will be from 1) smaller investors who have the flexibility to move their portfolios in response to America's changing credit standing and declining currency and 2) sales relating to portfolio duration restructurings by central banks." Again, Hintz does not believe these marginal sellers will have a major impact on rates. After the last downgrade, rates barely budged.† In fact they went lower. Stocks plunged, but they came back. "The post downgrade adjustment period will be challenging for fixed income and equity investors, but the populace wonít have to hoard canned goods and bottled water," wrote Hintz.
Everyone talking about the debt ceiling and the idea that the Treasury could engage in "prioritization" (honoring some obligations, while not honoring others, so as to maintain a balanced budget and not breach the debt ceiling), needs to see these 9 tweets from Tony Fratto, a former Treasury official under the Bush administration. The gist: There is NO obvious way to simply "prioritize" payments. The revenue is too lumpy. A default is a real possibility. And there's no alternative to raising the debt ceiling. GREAT stuff. (1) Treasury makes huge regular payments at the beginning of the month -- like for Social Security and federal retirement benefits. (2) While tax revenues tend to come in during the middle of the month. See why "prioritizing" won't work? (3) To fund gov at the lowest cost &amp;pay obligations on time. Treasury uses short-term financing and small cash management bills. (4) The idea that Treasury *could* prioritize -- even if desired -- is fanciful &amp; misunderstands federal financing requirements. (5) We can't think of Treasury meeting obligations on a *monthly* basis; we have to think of cash management needs on a *daily* basis. (6) Because the revenue needs and obligations of an enormous government don't match up nicely for us -- they're very "spikey" &amp; mismatched. (7) Some think Treasury can somehow navigate through this, but Treasury can't tell SS beneficiaries to wait until the 3rd week of the month. (8) Some want to believe Admin is bluffing or being political by saying "default".To me, actual default is not just possible but likely. (9) I don't know if I can make it any more clear: there is no rational alternative to raising the debt ceiling, &amp; preferably early.
Boeing is one of the most iconic American brands.† It's a symbol of American manufacturing.† And orders for Boeing's aircraft frequently move the monthly U.S. economic data. But most people don't realize that most of Boeing's airplane parts come from external vendors from all over the world. Below is a diagram from Goldman Sachs' 100 favorite charts (via Zero Hedge) from December 2011.† It reveals just where all of the parts come from for the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. Basically, American companies make the front and back of the plane.† The rest come from all over the world. Goldman Sachs via Zero Hedge
NHK WorldANA Boeing 787 lands after sensor detects smokeJapan's two major airlines, All Nippon Airways and Japan Airlines,¬†voluntarily grounded their entire Boeing 787 fleets Wednesday after an ANA Dreamliner¬†made an emergency landing because of¬†a battery malfunction, Reuters reports.¬† All Nippon Airways grounded all 17 of its¬†Boeing 787¬†planes after a¬†cockpit message indicating a battery problem forced one of its passenger jets to land at¬†Takamatsu airport¬†in Japan around 40 minutes after takeoff. All Nippon Vice President Osamu Shinobe said at a press conference in Tokyo that the¬†pilot detected a strange smell in the cockpit and cabin of the aircraft,¬†according to Bloomberg.¬† All 129 passengers were safely evacuated from the plane via emergency slides and no one was hurt.¬† The "details of the problem were still being checked," according to an ANA spokesperson.¬† Following ANA's announcement,¬†Japan Airlines halted all of its 787 flights scheduled to leave on Wednesday. Japan Airlines has a fleet of seven planes.¬† This is the latest hiccup in a string of recent problems with Boeing's new 787 Dreamliner.¬† Japanese authorities are investigating¬†a fuel leak¬†on a Japan Airlines Dreamliner at Boston's Logan International Airport that occurred last Tuesday.¬†A day earlier, a fire, also related to battery issue, broke out in the belly of a different Japan Airlines Dreamliner at the same airport. ¬†
We've written a lot about the weakness of the Japanese yen, a move that's associated with the country's new Prime Minister, and his aggressive agenda of monetary and fiscal easing. But actually, it's more than just that. In a note this evening, SocGen's Sebastien Galy observes that shifts are underway not just in the yen (JPY) but also in the Swiss Franc (CHF) and the US dollar: †FX implied volatilities have been rising from ultra low levels, as they did pre-Lehman times. It is an important sign not of impending doom, but of a global reallocation of capital. Old regimes are dying and FX is the first sign of this process. We are seeing this in JPY, are starting to see this in CHF and will eventually see it happen in USD, hopefully in H2 or Q4 as the US economy steadily recovers. As capital is reallocated across the world, the allocation between bonds and equities as ultimate ìdomesticî claims to global growth will eventually also become more unstable. For now, these wobbles will be crushed as monetary policy remains very expansive globally, but the process started. FX is the warning sign. The 2007-2012 crisis period has been characterized, in part, by extremely predictable correlations among a range of assets. So for example, a "risk on" period might be characterized by higher stocks, a weaker dollar, a higher aussie dollar, and so forth. But now, for example, we're seeing dollar strength coincide with a strong market. And the Swiss Franc, which has been the favored "safe-haven" currency of Europe (everyone rushed into Switzerland) during the crisis is now losing luster, as people feel comfortable repatriating money back into the Eurozone. In fact, EURCHF (the euro against the Swiss Franc) has been on a crazy tear in just the last few days. Click the chart to enlarge. Google Finance The yen, the dollar, the Swiss France, the euro, and even the Renmimbi (to some extent, as it recently hit a multi-decade high) are all moving in novel ways, a sign that the ossified relationships that characterized the crisis are starting to loosen.
The World Bank just published an update to its latest Global Economic Prospects report. "Four years after the onset of the global financial crisis, the worst appears to be over," they write.¬† "However, the global economy remains fragile, as high-income countries continue to suffer from volatility and slow growth, says the World Bank‚Äôs latest Global Economic Prospects, issued today. "Despite slow growth in high-income countries, prospects for the developing world remain solid (albeit between 1 and 2 percentage points slower than in the pre-crisis period). In order to regain those earlier faster growth rates, developing countries will need to focus on productivity-enhancing domestic policies, to assure robust growth in the long term." The report includes updates to the World Bank's forecasts for growth.¬† Here are the key estimates and forecasts (June estimates in parenthesis): "While diminished, downside risks to the global economy persist and include a stalling of progress on the Euro Area crisis, debt and fiscal issues in the United States, the possibility of a sharp slowing of investment in China, and a disruption in global oil supplies," they write."In this weak external environment, growth for developing countries will need to come from within, by strengthening governance and investing in infrastructure, education, and health care."
SuzumoOverseas / YouTubeJapan's machines orders jumped 3.9 percent in November.¬† This was much higher than the 0.3 percent increase expected by economists.¬† This is according to Bloomberg. Japan's economy has been struggling to grow as its currency has hindered exports.¬† Furthermore, an ongoing row with China has hurt the country's exports to the world's second largest economy. New Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has promised Japan that he would push for stimulated policies that would weaken the yen and promote inflation.
The share of millionaires planning to investing in stocks this year rose to 55 percent, up 10 percent from 2010, according to a survey of 1,450 millionaires by SpectremGroup. That's a nice increase, but it doesn't mean they're bullish on the economy. "Millionaires are taking more risks, but not necessarily because they feel things are better from an economic standpoint," Spectrem president George Walper told BI. "It's strictly the challenge of desiring a better return and that's been available because interest rates are so low. At the same time, they are also holding back money in reserve."SpectremGroup See Also: 10 common mistakes investors make &gt;
CNBC screenshotUpdate: We just heard directly from a source involved with the transaction that Jannard was not the buyer of Marks' house. Looks like the new owner remains under wraps for now; we'll let you know if we learn more. Original post: Last week, we learned that legendary investment manager and Oaktree Capital chairman Howard Marks had sold his 9.5-acre estate in Malibu for $75 million, a record price for the beachfront city. At the time, it was reported that an unnamed Russian billionaire couple had picked up the estate, which had been quietly shopped around for $125 million. Now, celebrity real estate blogger The Real Estalker says that the buyer was actually James Jannard, founder of eyeglass and apparel maker Oakley Inc., citing sources familiar with the sale. Jannard sold his company in 2007 for more than $2 billion. He now runs RED, a manufacturer of digital movie cameras. Brokers told the WSJ it was the second most expensive residential real estate sale in Southern California, behind the $85 million sale of the Spelling Manor to Formula One heiress Petra Ecclestone last year. The property has 300 feet of beach frontage, as well as two guest houses and a gym. Marks and his wife Nancy bought the estate in 2002 from the estate of late Herbalife founder Mark Hughes for $31 million. If you're itching to know what the estate looks like, you can see some interior photos on the website of architecture firm Ferguson &amp; Shamamian (via Homes of the Rich).
Amid all the hooplah about Facebook's new search engine, which is indeed exciting, one thing has been overlooked: The product's terrible name. Facebook's new search engine, you might have heard by now, is called "Graph Search." Come again? Unless you work at Facebook or in Silicon Valley, which most of Facebook's one billion users don't, you can be forgiven for being confused about why Facebook called the product "Graph Search." Because, although "Graph" is a term that is common in the techo-chamber, especially among social media types, it's a term that is almost never used in this context anywhere else. What "graph" refers to is the so-called "social graph"--all of the people who are your "friends" or "followers" on Facebook and other social networks. Everyone has a social graph and is a member of other social graphs. And tech gurus love to extol the data and money-making possibilities of unlocking the "social graph." But no one outside the techo-chamber has any clue what the "social graph" is. And they certainly don't care about it. So, by calling its new search engine "Graph Search," Facebook has likely needlessly confused about 999 million of its users. What should Facebook have called the product instead? "Facebook Search." That's how everyone will think about it, regardless of what Facebook wants them to think. And that's how people will distinguish Facebook Search from "Google Search" or just plain "Search," which are the terms everyone uses to describe search everywhere else. In other words, in naming this product, in an uncharacteristic mistake, Facebook forgot who its service is actually for. This mistake is uncharacteristic because one of Mark Zuckerberg's innate skills has always been making (and naming) products in a way that makes them immediately appeal to regular people, not just tech-folk. So it's strange that Mark would sign off on the name for a big new product that is likely to mystify 99.9% of his users. SEE ALSO: Here's What Facebook's New Search Engine Looks Like

First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,534, +27.5, +0.2 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,472, +1.6, +0.1 percentNASDAQ: 3,110, -6.7, -0.2 percent And now the top stories:
Their economy may have slowed and inflation may be rising, but that hasn‚Äôt deterred Brazilians from buying. Retail sales rose last month for the sixth time in a row, and were up 8.3% on a year earlier. That‚Äôs great for retailers, but not so much for the economy as a whole. Brazil‚Äôs consumers contribute 60% of the country‚Äôs GDP. (In China, it‚Äôs just 35%).¬† Brazil will soon be the world‚Äôs¬†number two marketplace¬†for beauty products and pet food. But¬†As Juan Lorenzo Maldonado at Roubini Global Economics says, ‚Äúconsumption has been the only growth source for Brazil this year, as investment has receded and, on the supply side, industry remains a drag on the economy.‚Äù GDP grew at 7.5% in 2010, but it was 1% last year, and¬†it remains tepid precisely because the government‚Äôs focus on consumption has come at the expense of investment, infrastructure, and the resolution of serious structural problems. Maldonado says that a tight labor market, significant wage gains, stimulus measures initiated in 2012, and aggressive monetary easing are the reasons for continually high consumption. But more than anything, underpinning the Brazilian shopping binge of the last few years is the fact that so many new Brazilians‚Äî35 million‚Äîhave entered the swelling ranks of the global middle class and gained access to previously unavailable luxuries such as stable employment, some savings, and most importantly, credit. As a result, Brazilian credit makes up about 50% of GDP, says Maldonado, and households are spending close to 40% of disposable income on paying off debt, a sign that consumers are already over-leveraged. The rising retail figures also show that Brazilian spending is not related to economic growth, and that consumers are spending in ways they can‚Äôt afford. In the North of Brazil, a poor region where many have been shuttled into the nascent middle class, it is not uncommon for Brazilians to shower five times a day, douse themselves¬†in perfume, and apply lotion or skin cream after each shower. That has created a $43 billion dollar market for skin products, nearly twice as large as China‚Äôs. Not surprisingly, credit defaults last year rose to the highest levels since 2000, and banks, as a result of higher risk perception, are more reluctant to lend. So why has the Brazilian government been urging banks to make still more loans? Demand-led growth has worked well in the past. But political inertia has left the country stuck on policies designed to raise people‚Äôs standard of living; and¬†stimulus measures that mandate lower rates for car purchases, or lower taxes on home appliances, can only do so much to boost growth. Meanwhile, an appreciating exchange rate, ongoing labor shortages, rigid labor laws, steep wage gains, a nightmarish tax code, and mounds upon mounds of red tape are all dragging down the supply side of the economy. Brazil was until recently a powerhouse, an example of the lessons an emerging economy could teach the rest of the world. But last year it lost its position as the world‚Äôs seventh largest economy‚Äîto the sickly UK, entering its third bout of recession. Time for its policy-makers to take another shower, perhaps: a cold one.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 'The Cult Of Now Is Having A Profound Effect On Financial Markets' (Advisor Perspectives) Joseph Paul at Alliance Bernstein says "crisis-battered investors continue to favor the relative certainty of current income over the ‚Äúmaybe‚Äù of future capital appreciation". Investors that want cash now are looking at real estate investment trusts (REITs) and stocks.¬† "Investors are assigning a substantially lower value to the cash flows of common stocks because they don‚Äôt trust that managements will deploy this cash wisely." Instead they find more value in REITs for instance because they are expected to distribute their earnings to shareholders, even though¬† companies have used cash productively.¬† "To believe that current conditions will become the status quo is to believe that the historical relationship between market values and corporate cash flows is forever broken. By our reading, the opportunity cost of distrust is pretty steep. The time will come when investors will no longer see the point in paying it."¬†  The Debt Ceiling Could Be Good For Fund Investors (The Wall Street Journal) The debt ceiling debate and its impact on stocks could actually be good for fund investors, according to RiverFront Investment Group's Michael Jones. In the event that a deal doesn't materialize he expects stocks to correct eight - 10 percent.¬† "In that event, instead of cutting exposures to stock funds, Mr. Jones says his team is likely to raise allocations to exchange-traded funds focused on more risky assets. "This isn't like the last debt ceiling debate in the summer of 2011 when stocks wound up falling around 20%," he observes. "During that period, the European debt crisis was reaching a crescendo. With less heightened tensions overseas, both in emerging markets and Europe, Mr. Jones views a market dip this time around as a good time to take a closer look at international stock funds. In particular, he favors ETFs for developing economies such as Indonesia, South Korea and Taiwan."  Ian Bremmer Explains His Top Risk For 2013 (Reuters) Ian Bremmer thinks political instability in emerging markets especially China, will one of the biggest market risks in 2013.¬† Speaking at a Thomson Reuters Newsmaker event Bremmer said: "I think that emerging markets in general, the level of political instability, is underpriced for 2013. ‚Ä¶The level of uncertainty around investing in China is many magnitudes greater than it is in the United States, but no one ever says they're on the sidelines because of uncertainty in China." 22 Insights From The Most Successful Investors In History (Business Insider) As we are halfway through January and experts everywhere are telling investors where to put their money, Business Insider highlighted insights from some of the greatest investors of all time.¬† One of our favorites is from Warren Buffett. "Investors should remember that excitement and expenses are their enemies. And if they insist on trying to time their participation in equities, they should try to be fearful when others are greedy and greedy only when others are fearful." 30 Big Stocks That Are Way Below Wall Street's Price Targets (Bespoke Investment Group) Bespoke Investment Group 
CNBCRay DalioWhat are investors to do as the bull market in stocks enters a new year? There are plenty of pundits out there that'll give you tons of reasons to buy or sell. But perhaps now is the perfect time to step back and consider the sage advice of history's most successful investors. We've collected some of the finest wisdom on markets from the most respected and successful investors, past and present. † \"If investing is entertaining, if youíre having fun, youíre probably not making any†money. Good investing is boring.\" † Source: Winning Investment Habits Of Warren Buffet And George Soros \"Smart investing doesn't consist of buying good assets, but of buying assets well.† This is a very, very important distinction that very, very few people understand. \" † Source: Advisor Perspectives \"If you have trouble imaging a 20% loss in the stock market, you shouldn't be in stocks.\" † Source: ritholtz.com \"The public buys the most at the top and the least at the bottom.\" And, \"When all the experts and forecasts agree ñ something else is going to happen.\" † Source:†Marketwatch \"By far the biggest problem for professionals in investing is dealing with career and business risk: protecting your own job as an agent. The second curse of professional investing is over-management caused by the need to be seen to be busy, to be earning your keep. The individual is far better-positioned to wait patiently for the right pitch while paying no regard to what others are doing, which is almost impossible for professionals.\" Source: GMO† \"For all long-term investors, there is only one objective ñ maximum total real return after taxes.\" † Source: Advisor Perspectives \"Quantitatively based solutions and asset allocation equations invariably fail as they are designed to capture what would have worked in the previous cycle whereas the next one remains a riddle wrapped in an enigma.\" † Source:†Barton Biggs via The Gartman Letter \"It is absurd to think that the general public can ever make money out of market forecasts.\" † Source: The Intelligent Investor ìThe stock market is filled with individuals who know the price of everything, but the value of nothing.î † Source: Investopedia \"Investors should remember that excitement and expenses are their enemies. And if they insist on trying to time their participation in equities, they should try to be fearful when others are greedy and greedy only when others are fearful.\"† † Source: 2004 shareholder letter \"You canít develop a portfolio strategy around endless possibilities. You wouldnít even get out of bed if you considered everything that could possibly happen..... you can use history as one tool for shaping reasonable probabilities. Then, you look at the world of economic, sentiment and political drivers to determine whatís most likely to happenówhile always knowing you can be and will be wrong a lot.\" † Source: Markets Never Forget (But People Do) \"The average long-term experience in investing is never surprising, but the short term experience is always surprising. We now know to focus not on rate of return, but on the informed management of risk\" † Source: Winning The Loser's Game \"The market does reflect the available information, as the professors tell us. But just as the funhouse mirrors don't always accurately reflect your weight, the markets don't always accurately reflect that information. Usually they are too pessimistic when it's bad, and too optimistic when it's good.\" † Source: 2006 Letter to Shareholders ìEvery business is manmade. It is a result of individuals. It reflects the personalities and the business philosophy of the founders and those who have directed its affairs throughout its existence. If you want to have an understanding of any business, it is important to know the background of the people who started it and directed its past and the hopes and ambitions of those who are planning its future.î † Source: Valuewalk †ìWe have bloated bureaucracies in Corporate America. The root of the problem is the†absence of real corporate democracy.î † Source: The Icahn Report \"Investing without research is like playing stud poker and never looking at the cards.\" † \"It's not always easy to do what's not popular, but that's where you make your money. Buy stocks that look bad to less careful investors and hang on until their real value is recognized.\" † Source: John Neff On Investing† \"If you don't have integrity, you have nothing. You can't buy it. You can have all the money in the world, but if you are not a moral and ethical person, you really have nothing.\" † Source: Academy of Achievement \"An economy is simply the sum of the transactions that make it up. A transaction is a simple thing. Because there are a lot of them, the economy looks more complex than it really is. If instead of looking at it from the top down, we look at it from the transaction up, it is much easier to understand.\" † Source: How The Economic Machine Works \"I can calculate the movement of stars, but not the madness of men.\" † Source: Gluskin Sheff ìHistory does not repeat itself but it does rhyme.î † Source: Advisor Perspectives
Shares of Molycorp plunged more than 22% to $8.38 in heavy volumes on Thursday after the rare earth miner served up more bad news to already shell-shocked investors. The Colorado-based company said 2013 revenue will be lower than previously forecast¬†as rare earth oxide prices continue to spiral downward. That would not have surprised anyone following the rare earth industry. More damaging is the announcement by Molycorp that it is "evaluating its capital needs" and that phase two of production ramp-up at its California mine is on hold until "market demand, product pricing, capital availability, and financial returns justify" it. Translation:¬†Don't hold your breath¬†for the long-promised output of 40,000 tonnes rare earth equivalent per year. And¬†don't be surprised¬†if Molycorp comes back to the market looking for more money to complete the $1.25 billion phase I ‚Äì a 20,000 tonne run rate ‚Äì which is already six months behind schedule.¬† There is the nagging problem of the SEC probe of the company's public disclosure record, but what could not have helped sentiment in the industry either is the announcement just yesterday by the US Dept of Energy and private partners of $120 million to set up the Critical Materials Institute. A primary mission for the new research institute will be to¬†find alternatives and increase the recycling of rare earths¬†used in green technologies such as wind turbines. The irony? Molycorp is a sponsor of the program. Perhaps the miner ‚Äì and hopefully, eventually shareholders ‚Äì could still benefit from the research. The institute will also look at ways to make "extraction more commercially viable". Still, that's cold comfort for punters who picked up MCP for $35.79 in April.
Competition in the labor market is decreasing dramatically. The number of unemployed persons per job opening stands at 3.28 ‚Äî the lowest since October 2008. At the end of the recession in summer 2009, there were a full 6.68 unemployed persons per job opening. Still we've got a ways to go, with competition around twice the pre-recession level. Here's a chart from the American Enterprise Institute: AEI NOW SEE: The most unemployed cities in America &gt;¬†
Sometimes we get forwarded applications for summer internships on Wall Street that are extremely embarrassing because the applicant is totally full of themselves or completely clueless.¬† What happens is the letters go viral and the Street passes them around in long email chains blasting the applicant. They're always funny, but a little bit sad. That's exactly what we thought was going to happen today when we received this one in our inbox. ¬†It turns that the cover letter originally sent to a boutique investment bank is exactly the opposite. The cover letter below is unapologetically honest and people on Wall Street are calling it one of the best letters they have seen. ¬†Everyone on the thread agrees the letter shows energy and pluck and honesty. Business Insider Business Insider Business Insider Business Insider Business Insider¬† ¬† Business Insider Business Insider¬† ¬†Business Insider Business Insider Business Insider 
Tarkan Maner, Dell‚Äôs vice president of cloud operations, is shouting into the phone at me: ‚ÄúInvestors are giving us some runway. We‚Äôve got about 12 to 18 months. But if I don‚Äôt execute, your next interview will be with a different guy!‚Äù Eight months ago, Maner was CEO of Wyse, an obscure but highly profitable company that had been skulking in the shadows of better-known enterprise information technology companies. Since its founding in 1981, the thesis of Wyse has been that most people don‚Äôt need PCs. Wyse produced ‚Äúthin clients,‚Äù which are computers with very little processing power or storage, designed solely to connect to powerful mainframes and servers and, now, the web. Before the internet, thin clients were a nightmare to operate. They required dedicated networks and the on-site maintenance of computers powerful enough to power multiple workstations at once. Now everything is a thin client, smartphones foremost among them. We stream video from servers thousands of miles away, carry on video chats whose streams are compressed by computers far more powerful than the ones in our pockets, and store our lives on redundant arrays of hard drives that span continents. Facing this reality, Dell, which built its success on more traditional PCs,¬†acquired Wyse last year. Now there is¬†renewed speculation¬†that Dell could take itself private in a leveraged buyout by private equity firms. ‚ÄúI really don‚Äôt know about these rumors,‚Äù Maner said last night. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt think anybody knows besides the board and the CEO.‚Äù Why Dell bought the anti-PC company Wyse was a peculiar acquisition for what was at the time the world‚Äôs second-largest PC manufacturer. It‚Äôs an explicitly anti-PC operation. ‚ÄúDesktop computers are still ugly,‚Äù says Maner, articulating each word with the urgency of a rescue team shouting down a well. ‚ÄúThey have tons of plastic, they are heavy. They are so big they usually don‚Äôt even sit on your desk. They should be called floortops!‚Äù Wyse‚Äôs solution is called project Ophelia. It‚Äôs not clear what the reference to the suicidal noblewoman of Shakespeare‚Äôs Hamlet means, exactly, but one way to think of the project is: This is how Dell plans to kill its own PC division. Ophelia is as big as a USB thumb drive, yet it‚Äôs a complete, self-contained PC. It allows access to Windows, Mac OS, Google‚Äôs Chrome OS, Dell‚Äôs custom cloud solutions, Citrix cloud software, and even Google‚Äôs Chrome OS, using virtual instances of those operating systems running in the cloud. The stick itself runs Google‚Äôs Android operating system in order to handle tasks that are processed locally, like decoding and encoding voice and video streams. The entire device draws 2.1 watts of power; for comparison, the microprocessor in the average smartphone draws 1 watt, and the average PC draws 20 times as much electricity. To use Ophelia, you plug it into a flat-panel monitor or television. That‚Äôs it: It connects to the internet via WiFi and to a keyboard and other peripherals via Bluetooth. It‚Äôs the PC-as-parasite, a device that offloads most tasks to servers in the cloud so that the user is left with barely a token, a nearly ephemeral, solid-state key connecting to their could-based ‚Äúcomputer,‚Äù wherever they are. About half of Dell‚Äôs cloud business consists of federal and local governments. The geeks who have to run corporate IT departments like solutions like Ophelia because they allow them new ways to secure the ‚Äúcomputer‚Äù that workers are relying on. They also centralize maintenance and upgrades into servers. It‚Äôs the end, in other words, of in-person visits to your cubicle from the corporate IT guy. Dell‚Äôs new competition: Google If this business plan sounds familiar, that‚Äôs because it‚Äôs also Google‚Äôs model. Google‚Äôs entirely cloud-based Chrome OS and Chrome-based devices turn everyday notebook computers into thin clients that are designed to conveniently access Google‚Äôs alternatives to Microsoft Office and email software. In a way, Ophelia is just a more extreme realization of this vision. Pricing for Ophelia isn‚Äôt public yet, but Maner says that ‚Äúwe want to start the product at $50.‚Äù At that price, he argues, even the world‚Äôs largest PC manufacturer, Lenovo, can‚Äôt compete. ‚ÄúAnd I‚Äôm still making 50% gross margin!‚Äù Dell has always played the high-volume, low margin game, but lately it‚Äôs been losing that battle to the very Chinese manufacturers to which it outsourced so much of its manufacturing, including Lenovo. The key to the company‚Äôs transition is to get customers hooked on entirely cloud-based computing systems like Ophelia. Then, Dell‚Äôs business moves from selling commodity PCs to selling subscriptions to the security, storage, and other services that it has amassed after billions of dollars in acquisitions of cloud services companies like Wyse and, most recently, Quest. Here comes the leveraged buyout The problem with this transition is that Dell is still the world‚Äôs third-largest PC manufacturer, and despite major blows to its stock price in the past year, its valuation still reflects that. Dell‚Äôs cloud business is growing quickly but maybe not fast enough to prevent the company from contracting before it starts to grow again. The growth of Wyse, before its acquisition, is typical of the¬†25% to 30% yearly growth many analysts project for cloud services companies. In 2007, the company‚Äôs revenue was about $30 million. In 2011, before the acquisition, the company was up to $400 million in revenue, with $250 million of that made in the last quarter of 2011. Maner insists that if the company were still independent, it would be making a billion dollars a year in revenue, shipping 4-5 million units in 2012 and seeing 40% to 50% growth in revenue per year. Dell‚Äôs total revenue is about $50 billion a year and has been falling. Price wars over PCs, a market that is shrinking in the face of competition from tablets and other ‚Äúpost-PC‚Äù devices, have hurt the company. Suddenly, the logic of taking Dell private starts to make sense. Dell has about $14 billion in cash. And while it has outsourced most of its manufacturing, the company still has all kinds of capital tied up in the infrastructure required to build and deliver PCs and servers. With the right owners, Dell could sell off the parts of its ailing PC business that still have some value, plow its remaining resources into becoming a company that sells services and software, and essentially do what IBM did when it got out of the hardware business entirely and instead became the world‚Äôs largest supplier of software and IT services to corporations and businesses. Dell has a couple of advantages as it makes this transition. The first is that, unlike IBM, it doesn‚Äôt have to sell off all of its PC business, just the parts that it doesn‚Äôt need when offering complete systems‚Äîfrom data centers to individual workstations or even mobile devices‚Äîto its customers. Dell‚Äôs second advantage, over Google, is that the company has something like 100,000 ‚Äúchannel partners,‚Äù independent vendors who resell its services, and deep experience integrating into legacy systems. The world of consumer electronics may move at lightning speed, but the huge investments and enormous complexity of government and corporate IT systems means that enterprise technology does not. These organizations need a partner like Dell that can support their legacy systems for decades to come. Dell‚Äôs final advantage could be that the company seems to be more prepared for radical change than, say, Hewlett-Packard. Going private will be by all accounts extremely difficult. Michael Dell, the company‚Äôs founder, still controls 16% of the company. But if Wyse, the anti-PC company, was a strange acquisition for Dell, and project Ophelia the most extreme expression of that ethos, then both are a measure of just how desperate Dell is to reinvent itself. A privately held Dell, shielded from the pressure to post continual growth on a quarterly basis, could refocus itself on thin clients and cloud computing, which could set itself up for a breathtaking turnaround.
The euro is falling fast against the U.S. dollar after a headline crossed reporting a comment from Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the Euro Group of eurozone finance ministers. Via Bloomberg, Juncker said the euro exchange rate is "dangerously high." The euro, which was trading around 1.3340 against the U.S. dollar when Juncker's comments crossed, is plummeted to a low of 1.3263 before bouncing back slightly (click to enlarge): Thinkorswim Juncker's comments highlight one of the fundamental problems the eurozone faces right now. Too high of a euro makes exports to areas outside the currency bloc less competitive vis-a-vis world competitors.
It is inevitable that around this time of year, investors ponder what the year may hold in store for the markets. While we present many drivers in our Outlook 2013 that will combine to define the path of least resistance for the markets to follow in 2013, the interrelationships between economics, fiscal and monetary policy, geopolitics and corporate actions can seem complex. Investors can feel overwhelmed and seek a simple answer. When people feel there is a situation that is out of their control or that it is too complicated to analyze, they often fall back on rules of thumb to make decisions. But when enough of us rely on them, it can have real repercussions. We do not place much value on market clichÈs like the ìJanuary Effectî or the ìSuper Bowl indicator,î but we are often asked about them during this time of the year. Jittery investors are looking for more reasons to continue selling stocks, measured by domestic stock mutual fund net outflows tracked by the Investment Company Institute (ICI), despite the gains in recent months and years. Were these indicators to turn negative, selling by nervous market participants might push stocks lower. However, on balance, these time-worn axioms support our outlook for a modest gain for stocks in 2013. 1.††† The S&amp;P 500 has posted a gain for the year more than 70% of the time, no matter what the first five days have done.† 2.††† A decline in the first five days has been only about 50% accurate at predicting a down year. 3.††† The most recent exception was in 2011, when stocks posted gains in the first five days, as measured by the S&amp;P 500 index, but the index was down just slightly for the year. Other notable exceptions in recent years include: 2007, when stocks were down for the first five days, but posted a modest gain for the year, and 2002, when stocks posted a gain for the first five days only to end up with one of the worst years on record. That said, the 2.2% gain in this yearís first five days may be encouraging for investors looking for an early indicator of how the market will fare throughout the rest of the year. Figure 1: Chinese Zodiac Points to Losses in 2013 Average Annual Change in S&amp;P 500 Index by Zodiac Sign LPL FinancialSource: LPL Financial, Bloomberg data 01/14/13 † Of course, there are many more of these indicators we could mention. But you get the idea. The enduring popularity of these strategies for investment decision making ó despite their history of merely coin-flip accuracy when examined closely ó is a testament to a desire for an easy answer to how to invest in todayís interconnected and complex markets. For investors looking for simple and tangible indicators of growth in the economy and markets they are better served to look at other offbeat, yet more meaningful, indicators that we put more stock in which include things like: rail freight traffic, mortgage applications, hotel revenue per room, coal prices, business loan demand, bulk cargo shipping vessel costs, and recreational vehicle sales. All of which have been pointing to continued, though sluggish, growth. Call out: We put more stock in indicators such as rail freight traffic, mortgage applications, hotel revenue per room, coal prices, business loan demand, bulk cargo shipping vessel costs, and recreational vehicle sales.
AP ImagesJoseph StiglitzIn early 2012, India flip flopped over allowing 51 percent foreign direct investment (FDI) to multi-brand retailers (for instance department stores and retailers like Wal-Mart and Ikea) in the country. Eventually the central government seemed to pass the buck by saying it approved the measure, but would let each state decide whether they wanted these global retailers in their cities. Opposition parties in India called nationwide strikes to oppose Wal-Mart because of the threat it poses to local businesses. And on a visit to India, Joseph Stiglitz seemed to share this sentiment. While delivering a speech titled 'Redefining Capitalism,' The Hindu reports that Stiglitz warned his audience about certain foreign retailers. While he didn't name Wal-Mart, it was evident which one he was referred to given the massive controversy it generated. From The Hindu: ‚ÄúOne retailer, which has been widely discussed, has the reputation for bad labor relations, discrimination on the basis of gender, not providing adequate health benefits, and more recently bribery, particularly in the context of Mexico. ...India has to ask before opening its markets to financial products, what they are going to do for promoting growth. The evidence is so overwhelming that these instruments will promote instability that a lot of caution is needed.‚Äù Stiglitz said India needs to be smart about the FDI it attracts and should do it in a way that it gets access to "capital, technology, access to markets and training". He also said the government needs to pursue policies that are good for its populace and not chase growth "based on crony capitalism". Stiglitz¬† warned against chasing after American capitalism since it could lead to great inequalities like we see in the U.S. today. Read the entire piece at The Hindu &gt;
APSince Sunday, reports have surfaced the JP Morgan's board may release a report blaming CEO Jamie Dimon for last year's the $6.2 billion 'London Whale' trading loss. According to Dealbook, they're going to 'let it all hang out', as Dimon himself put it, and release the report. It all started last April, when the bank brushed aside reports that a trader in the London Chief Investment Office was building a massive position in credit derivatives. In May, though, the bank held a conference call admitting that Burno Iksil (aka the London Whale) had lost the bank $2 billion. By summer that number had increased to $6.2 billion as heads at JP Morgan rolled and hedge fund Blue Mountain Capital helped the bank unwind the trade. But the punishment couldn't end there. From Dealbook: Some within the bank were wary of releasing the report, which takes aim at lax supervision and risk controls, according to the people who insisted on anonymity because the discussions are not public. One concern was that plaintiff attorneys might seize on the report, the people said. But, Jamie Dimon, the bankís chief executive, argued that the report should be released. The report is expected to be critical of Douglas Braunstein, formerly the bankís chief financial officer, for failing to strictly monitor the activities of the traders in London. So tomorrow's earnings call should be interesting ónot for the numbers, which are supposed to be stellar ó but for the moment when Dimon and Braunstein have the floor.
UPDATE: Okay, Facebook investors have stopped their momentary fit. Facebook shares not going anywhere.  ¬† EARLIER: Facebook falls. Google rises. Investors not excited about Facebook's new 'Graph Search', which is some kind of Yelp killer, it appears. 
Kanaka MenehuneThere‚Äôs a dire need for infrastructure spending in the U.S. Unemployment in the construction industry remained elevated, ending 2012 at 13.5 percent.¬† As well, Americans continue to drive over structurally deficient bridges every day. A study performed by the American Society of Civil Engineers quantifies the effects of putting off much-needed investments to U.S. infrastructure. The report finds that the failure to invest an additional $157 billion above current levels per year for infrastructure would lead to $3.1 trillion in lost GDP and 3.5 million job cuts through 2020.  The study‚Äôs authors explain how a country that under invests in infrastructure pays an economic toll in the future: Businesses and households face higher costs due to several factors, including unreliable transportation services, less reliable water and electricity services, and unmet maintenance needs and outdated facilities for airports, marine ports, and inland water- ways. These costs absorb funds from businesses that would otherwise be directed to investment or research and development, and funds from households that would go toward discretionary consumer purchases. Other studies have shown each dollar of infrastructure spending¬†increases GDP by at least $2, a very impressive fiscal multiplier.¬†
Google FinanceMarkets stumbled during the first few minutes of the trading session.¬† But now they're coming back. Earlier this morning, we learned that retail sales was stronger than expected in December.¬† Also, inflation as measured by the producer price index was cooler than expected. It's worth noting that stocks are near their five year highs. Click Here For Full Coverage Of Today's Market &gt;
Flickr via Joi Ito After 26-year old entrepreneur and activist Aaron Swartz killed himself last week, his family and friends laid some of the blame on federal prosecutors who had charged him with crimes for a 2011 hacking incident. The contention was that the prosecutors behaved unfairly, painting Swartz's actions in the worst possible light and charging him absurdly harshly‚Äîenough to get him hit with a life sentence in prison. The charges put Swartz's life on hold, and according to his friend Lawrence Lessig, bankrupted him. The stress and cost of preparing for a trial, Swartz's friends said, contributed to his suicide. As I described in a previous article, legal situations like the one Swartz was in are unfathomably stressful. To a very large extent, your life is in the prosecutors' hands, and deciding to try to defend yourself is a risky, expensive, and all-consuming decision. If you have "done it"‚Äîif you are guilty as charged‚Äîthe much safer and less expensive route is to plead guilty and accept the consequences. But this legal strategy depends on the prosecutor having treated you fairly and offered you a fair deal. if you haven't "done it," or you are guilty only of lesser infractions, or if the prosecutor is insisting on a draconian admission and punishment that is way out of proportion with your actions, then the decision becomes even more difficult. That's why "prosecutorial discretion" is so important. Although our system does give the accused a right to defend themselves, the reality is that prosecutors have a huge amount of power and leverage‚Äîto the extent that prosecutors don't just act as "adversaries" in this system but as judge and jury. And if prosecutors use that power to force plea deals or harass or "bully" people, they can justifiably be accused of overreach. In the wake of the Swartz tragedy, it seems important to figure out whether the prosecutors in the U.S. Attorney's office did, in fact, overreach. Before sharing what I have learned on that question, I want to be clear about one thing: Although the stress of being prosecuted probably weighed heavily on Swartz and contributed to his decision to kill himself, it would be grossly unfair to suggest that the U.S. prosecutors "killed" him. Swartz had struggled with depression for years. And that depression‚Äîwhich is an extremely serious affliction‚Äîlikely played the major role in his death. The prosecutors in this case, meanwhile, like all prosecutors, have a difficult job, and they play a critical role in society.¬† As long as prosecutors do their jobs fairly, they should not be held responsible for the stress and challenges in the lives of those they investigate and prosecute. The key is whether the prosecutors do their jobs fairly. Or whether they abuse the power of their position to "make statements" or further their own goals and careers. In the Swartz case, we can begin to determine that by asking the following questions: On the first question, based on the facts outlined in the indictment the prosecutors filed, which have not been proven, as well as the information that has come out by those who defend Swartz's actions, it seems that the prosecutors were acting harshly but within their rights. Swartz, like many idealistic people in the tech and activist community, appears to have believed that information should be free and that Swartz was therefore just liberating information‚Äîacademic papers‚Äîthat should have been more freely available. But in the process of liberating these academic papers, Swartz seems to have broken laws. And even those who believe the prosecutors were unfair to him, like Lawrence Lessig, believe that he behaved unethically. This analysis on The Volokh Conspiracy, which is written by law professors, concludes that most of the charges against Swartz were fair. Swartz's own attorneys, meanwhile, don't seem to dispute Swartz's alleged actions in the case: Rather, they are saying they would have won the case because the government violated search and seizure rules when it took one of his laptops. (Prosecutors should have to follow the rules, and if they didn't follow them, Swartz should have won his trial. But that's a different issue than whether he broke these laws.) The alternate view is that, because Swartz's actions were essentially victimless, and because the owners of the service he hacked (JSTOR) and the network he used (MIT), did not take action against him, that the prosecutors should have just let it go or charged Swartz with a misdemeanor or other lesser offense. This seems like the more reasonable view. Aside from slowing down JSTOR's service and creating an inconvenience, Swartz's actions didn't hurt anyone. "Stealing" a digital copy of something also does not have the same impact as stealing a physical thing, no matter how the action is portrayed. (It's not okay, by any means. But it is different. The "victim" in a digital theft still owns the thing‚Äîall that has been stolen is a copy. And because, in this case, the digital things that were stolen, academic papers, are generally available for free anyway‚Äîand because Swartz didn't do anything with his copies‚Äîit's not as though Swartz caused a major financial loss for JSTOR). U.S. Attorney Carmen OrtizSo based on an initial look at this question, my sense is that the prosecutors' charging decisions were very harsh but within the range of "fair." They took a hard-ass view, perhaps because one of them, Stephen Heymann, has made a career out of prosecuting cyber-crimes and clearly feels strongly about them. But they don't appear to have blatantly overreached. Swartz just had the bad luck to run into a prosecutor who was very passionate about defending the lines that Swartz appears to have crossed. The second question is whether the prosecutors offered Swartz a fair plea deal. According to Michael Daly in The Daily Beast, Swartz's attorney was lobbying for the following deal: The prosecutors, meanwhile, were insisting on: Insisting that Swartz plead guilty to 13 felonies is undeniably harsh‚Äîarguably absurdly so in light of the circumstances of this incident. Importantly, however, the "4 month" jail sentence is vastly shorter than the effective "life imprisonment" that would have resulted from adding the sentences for all the charged felonies on top of one another. Was the prosecutors' offer a fair deal? Given that Swartz presumably believed that he had done something morally right if legally wrong, this probably seemed like an outrageously harsh sentence. And many Swartz defenders, who view his actions as unethical but harmless, agree. It would have been extremely tough for Swartz to plead guilty to being a felon. And Swartz's attorney was, probably justifiably, worried about what might happen to him in prison. (This is unfortunately a reality that needs to be considered here.) But it's also important to note that there is a big difference between four months in prison and "35 years in prison," which is the sentence you get if you just add up the sentences for all of the felonies. And Swartz does appear to have broken some laws. Swartz's other option, meanwhile, was defending himself. Although Swartz's lawyer believes he had a good case, and although he would probably have been a sympathetic defendant, he obviously could have lost. And if he had lost, he would have been convicted of at least some of the felonies and gone to jail for much longer than four months. (The prosecutor's estimate, Swartz's lawyer told the Daily Beast, was 7 years‚Äîbecause the judge in the case is known for harsh sentences). And, regardless of whether he won or lost, Swartz's trial would have been extraordinarily stressful and time-consuming and would have cost him a fortune‚Äîa fortune that, according to Lawrence Lessig and Swartz's friends, he no longer had. The bottom line, at least based on the information I've seen to date, is that the U.S. Attorneys in this case‚ÄîCarmen Ortiz and Stephen Heymann‚Äîseem to have taken a very hard line on Swartz's case. Whether Ortiz and Heymann took too hard a line, or whether they should have been fairer and more understanding in their plea offer, is a question that they should‚Äîand no doubt will‚Äîask themselves frequently in the coming years. And Aaron Swartz's case is certainly a good excuse for the country to evaluate how much power we place in the hands of prosecutors. Swartz's death is a tragedy, regardless. But if we can use it to make our system better, Aaron Swartz probably would take solace in that. SEE ALSO: Aaron Swartz's Death Is A Tragedy‚ÄîAnd Some Questions Need To Be Answered
Apple, one of the most favored stocks on the market, has seen its share price fall precipitously. Today, it's well below $500 per share. The folks at Bespoke Investment Group compiled a list of big stocks that are trading well below analysts price targets.† Apple tops the list. Bespoke Investment Group
Morgan Stanley is deferring 100 percent of bonuses for top earners, Reuters reports. "Top earner," in this case, means anyone making more than $350,000 with a bonus of more than $50,000 over a three year period. Financial advisers are not included in this directive, according to sources close to this situation. Deferred compensation (and bonuses paid in stock rather than cash) have been increasingly popular among bulge bracket Wall Street banks seeking pennies to pinch in a post financial crisis world. In fact, boutique banks like Jefferies have made waves (and tried to steal talent) by promising to pay bonuses in cash. All that aside, this news has to be killer for morale at Morgan Stanley. Yesterday the bank proceeded to layoff 1600 people. While this is tough, though, it's not surprising. Back in October, Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman said that Wall Street is full of "overpaid bankers."¬† He put the bank's money where his mouth is too, and cut overall compensation by 9 percent from 2011 to 2012. But apparently that's not enough. In fact, Dan Loeb, the billionaire hedge fund manager who revealed a long position in Morgan Stanley last week, criticized the firm's pay practices in an investor letter saying that director pay was too high for such a small, simple bank. From the WSJ: Mr. Loeb has indicated to people close to him that in some cases he feels the pay is appropriate, given the tricky balancing act needed to hold on to talented employees and placate restive shareholders while Mr. Gorman tries to rejuvenate the company. Not to say that Gorman's compensation is safe from Loeb's scrutiny ‚Äî according to the WSJ, it's not. Loeb does think that Ruth Porat, Morgan Stanley's CFO, is compensated fairly though. Fair is in the eyes of the beholder, however.
Bill Simon, Walmart's U.S. CEO, says there's a common misperception about his company.† "According to urban legend, our stores are filled with products that weren't made in the U.S.," Simon said in a speech at the National Retail Federation convention.† A majority of Walmart's spending, however, is on goods that were manufactured in America, he said.† "According to data from our suppliers, two-thirds of our spending is on American-made products," Simon said. "America is still the biggest manufacturer in the world."† Walmart plans to use even more made-in-America products, spending an additional $50 billion over the next 10 years, Simon said.† "We also plan on giving suppliers the certainty they need by signing longer contracts," he said. "Increasing what we already buy here will help American manufacturing." Simon said the push for American manufacturing won't cause prices to go up for consumers. He also said the company would continue to make the same profits. "Walmart isn't a charity, it's a business," Simon said. "We're not going to do something that will raise prices or hurt our margins."† A report by think-tank Demos alleged that Walmart's imported products eliminated 133,000 U.S. manufacturing jobs.† Shelly Banjo, retail reporter for the Wall Street Journal, pointed out that Walmart's "two-thirds" figure isn't as impressive as it seems. "Would point out that 55% of walmart is groceries though," Banjo said in a tweet.† DON'T MISS: Walmart Thinks Veterans Make Such Great Employees That It Plans To Hire 100,00 Of Them &gt;
Getty Images Entertainment/ Stephen Lovekin/StaffBlogger/hedge funder John Hempton, who runs Bronte Capital, has just published a long piece about visiting an Herbalife "Nutrition Club" in Queens, New York.† Hempton, who has called Herbalife "scumbags," disagrees with Bill Ackman's Herbalife short case and is betting against the Pershing Square Capital founder. In his latest blog post, Hempton basically says that if Ackman had taken the time to visit the "Nutrition Clubs" he would see that they provide a "social support group" for these people to drink the diet drinks. †He notes that the richer population's solution would be to hire a trainer, but that's an expensive option for a lot of people. † He also uses an example of a diabetic woman who went to the club and saw her insulin injection requirement reduced drastically. † "If†Bill Ackman thinks America would be better off without Herbalife†he could politely explain that at the woman's funeral," he writes. He concludes with some extremely harsh words for Ackman. Hempton writes:† What this has (deservedly) become is the story about how Bill Ackman can be so wrong. He spent (by his own admission) a year and a half analysing this company and his thesis can be falsified by visiting a few clubs in his home city. Bill Ackman's thesis is the most easily falsified bear-thesis I have seen from a major hedge fund ever. You have to wonder how this happened. So I am going to tell you: Bill Ackman a Harvard educated (magna cum laude) billionaire New York hedge fund manager bet over a billion dollars on a short position (imperilling his fund and his reputation) without checking the facts.And he did not check the facts because he was so rigid with a misplaced silver spoon that he could not stoop to sit on a subway for thirty minutes and talk with poor people for ninety minutes. Ouch.† Read Hempton's full piece here &gt;
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVJim O'Neill, Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, appeared on Bloomberg TV today to discuss monetary policy in Japan. He believes the yen has further to fall.† He also thinks that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is more than just talk. The next key date to watch for the yen will be the Bank of Japan meeting next week.† Here's O'Neill: The next twist is quite how powerful the BOJ's own decision making path appears after the meeting on the 21st and 22nd. If they play the typical role we have seen in the past where they say we hear you but there is nothing we can do about it, then the markets might have some period of disappointment. I don't think they are going to do that. It seems to me that the pressure they are underÖfrom corporate Japan is much bigger than I can recall in a long, long time. Check out the full interview from Bloomberg TV and the transcript below:  Our thanks to Bloomberg Television for the transcript. O'Neill on whether there is further to go in yen weakness: "We traveled a long way since late November. There are some classic indicators suggesting it is a little bit oversold. The next twist is not quite as straightforward of a call. Obviously a huge focus on the BOJ meeting on the 21st and 22nd. In order for us to sustain further movement, the BOJ has to show that it will take this 2% inflation target seriously. Rather than it just being a goal, it has to be a target. And I think it is important that we see continued evidence of the U.S. doing better. I have had this view for a while that the scale of what Japan was thinking about was bigger than what most people realize. That part is now translated. To really get dollar yen north of 100 and higher, we need to sue the other side of it, that the BOJ is serious and that the U.S. is managing to strengthen despite fiscal tightening. Nothing is ever a one-way street, but the basis is very powerful for this story." On whether central banks can follow up with the policy action that is built into the markets right now: "Throughout my career a lot of the most important impact of policymakers has just been the statement of the intent, not the size of what they actually do, particularly involves an intervention, is not necessarily the key thing to watchÖThe scale of what the Japanese policymakers are talking about, particularly in the context of inflation targeting, all you need is people to believe it and off you go." On the massive move in the Swiss franc yesterday: "I think linked to the yen weakness there are many collective things starting to come together. I think the decline of the franc is showing there is growing more retail confidence maybe that the European situation is stabilizing in a stronger way than perhaps many people talk about, otherwise it would be hard to understand the franc move. Of course more broadly, the franc for the whole of my career--over 30-odd years if not longer--plays this critical role of being the true test of global risk aversion. The fact that the franc weakening so much in the short space is another sign on top of others that we're seeing a bit of a rotation of investor psychology about the whole fragility of the world or less fragility." On whether the rotating door in Japanese government diminishes credibility in what Prime Minister Abe actually says to the markets: "It is a pretty good point. You have to be careful what any political leader says and what the consequences are in terms of doing, but I think the thing that is so intriguing about this, [Abe] comes into power at a time where he can determine the new Bank of Japan governor. They are making it pretty clear that if the BOJ does not ship to his own accord, they will effectively take over the leadership by putting in the person they think is relevant. There have been further comments said about that in the past two days as well. That is why I think many market participants are giving it so much credence, not simply because of the persuasive powers of Abe. The next twist is quite how powerful the BOJ's own decision making path appears after the meeting on the 21st and 22nd. If they play the typical role we have seen in the past where they say we hear you but there is nothing we can do about it, then the markets might have some period of disappointment. I don't think they are going to do that. It seems to me that the pressure they are underÖfrom corporate Japan is much bigger than I can recall in a long, long time."
A couple of weeks ago it was breathlessly reported that Holiday retail sales growth comes in at just 0.7%, Weakest since 2008: U.S. holiday retail sales this year grew at the weakest pace since 2008, when the nation was in a deep recession. In 2012, the shopping season was disrupted by bad weather and consumers' rising uncertainty about the economy. A report that tracks spending on popular holiday goods, the MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, said Tuesday that sales in the two months before Christmas increased 0.7 percent, compared with last year. Many analysts had expected holiday sales to grow 3 to 4 percent. Uh ... well .... Never mind. This morning it was reported that seasonally adjusted December retail sales grew 0.5% month over month, and over 4% YoY. Just as analysts had expected.  As I pointed out at the time, citing Gallup's daily consumer spending report: The last two weeks [before Christmas] have seen the highest amount of consumer spending since 4 years ago, and the spike last week is by far the highest since 4 years ago as well. .... Bottom line: the consumer may not have been as Scrooge-ish as reported yesterday. Once again, the Gallup daily consumer spending report has earned its bones.
More than 100 $AAPL charts have been posted to the StockTwits Charts Stream in the last day. I pulled four of the many excellent ones as they are key here to keep an eye on‚Ä¶First, the Weekly via @stocktiger who notes the confluence of the major trend line and the 38.2% Fibonacci retracement level around 476. Great look and key key level.Click Through on the charts for larger view.Phil PearlmanNext, @Fibline charts the foreboding Head and Shoulders top pattern with the confirmed neckline break on this morning‚Äôs gap lower. The measured move looks like 300 (ht: @CVecchioFX).Phil PearlmanThird, @OptnTradr with a nice visualization of the critical previous support level above 500 and how that has now become resistance.Phil PearlmanFinally, this one from @HFTAlert which shows underlying pressure in the $AAPL. Its still under aggressive distribution.Phil PearlmanUpdate: Adding a 5th here via @TradingPoints highlighting the 30% correction and monthly fib cluster. Joe is one of the best at this. period. Phil Pearlman
Fund manager Pawel Morski is live-tweeting from Societe Generale's 2013 outlook presentation. Speakers include famous bears Albert Edwards and Dylan Grice, who often take extreme views that often conflict with the conclusions of mainstream strategists and economist. Some key points: Here are some highlights that Morski has tweeted: @pawelmorski @pawelmorski @pawelmorski @pawelmorski @pawelmorski @pawelmorski Here's a chart that Morski tweeted showing how Japanese profits have detached themselves from stocks. @pawelmorski
I visited a Herbalife nutrition club in Queens. There is plenty wrong with this company ‚Äì but this is not a post about the things that are wrong with the company (most of those I will leave for other people to think about). This is simply a post about what I observed and the implications for Bill Ackman's Herbalife thesis.(a). There are a lot of Herbalife nutrition clubs in Queens. This is a Hispanic area and within the U.S. Herbalife is mainly a Hispanic phenomenon. If you use Google satellite navigation on your phone you will find lots Herbalife clubs (dozens are listed around Corona Queens) though some of the ones you try to locate will not be there any more (suggesting they have either moved or closed).(b). I was told the best time to visit a nutrition club was between 7 AM and 9 AM so I dutifully arrived at about 7.15. The club was empty. I was told to go with a Spanish speaker because the clubs were pretty close to mono-lingual Spanish. The club was not signposted from the street and coloured paper made opaque the windows so a passer by would not know what was in there.(c). I was served ‚Äúall three,‚Äù meaning an aloe drink, a diet suppressing tea and the protein shake.(d). This was the first time I had drunk a protein shake. I can tell you they suck - so does the tea for that matter. This stuff tastes unbelievably bad. It is flat-out-gross. I sent an email (with the trusty smart-phone) to a friend in Asia explaining where I was and told him how gross it was. He puzzled: he asked if I was a virgin. He explained that when he was a competitive lightweight rower (he rowed for an Ivy League university) he used to live on protein shakes as he had to keep his weight within the limits. And he exercised extensively on them. Exercise and protein shakes is a well-worn and proven weight loss combination. But they do taste gross. [I have been informed that Herbalife tastes slightly better than some protein shakes at the cost of adding some sugars ‚Äì also I have been informed the texture is much improved by blending in a banana or even a mango. ...](e). There were no visitors prior to 8 AM. By 8 AM I was going to sell my entire Herbalife long and give up on the position. My Spanish translator talked to the guy running the place and he told us roughly how many visitors he got a day and told us the time they came in ‚Äì and that it really started by about 8 AM.(f). The translator was correct. The visitors started around 8 and in the next 75 minutes over twenty came in. They came in roughly to his schedule suggesting that they were regulars. They spoke in Spanish and he spoke to them as friends. Most of them were either no longer obese or in the transition from being morbidly obese to (merely) rectangular shaped.(j). The key product: the proprietor/distributor greeted the visitors as friends and offered moral support as they drank the tea and the shake.(k). There was a series of before and after photos on the wall. They were impressive ‚Äì many of the customers ‚Äì and the husband and wife team that ran the club ‚Äì had gone from balloon shaped to roughly¬†rectangular. [I gather before and after photos are impressive at other weight-loss groups such as Weight Watchers - however in this case there were a lot of impressive photos for a very small club.](l). The husband and wife who ran the shop had been Herbalife customers for about five and a half years and had been running the club for about eighteen months. They were true believers in the product ‚Äì extolling its virtues and also repeating mostly in Spanish but also in Spanglish the benefits of the Herbalife system. [In their case they also also extolled the virtue of replacing the fat-and-cheese laden meals that were non Herbalife with something more nutritious and the virtue of some exercise even if it was just walking further.](k). The benefits of the Herbalife program in the wife's case were real. The wife had gone from a three insulin shot per day diabetic to a half insulin shot per day diabetic. [Statistically this should add over 15 years to her life expectancy.] Her prior body was balloon shaped.(l). On the wall was a list of the seventy odd people who regularly attend this Herbalife club. There was a list of gold stars against the names with weight-loss and Herbalife consumption targets on them. Clearly the gold stars were part of the reward system. This looked a little like primary school.(m). We asked if he had any ‚Äúdownline‚Äù. He explained to us that every one of his core customers was also a distributor ‚Äì and they were a distributor to get the 25 percent discount on stuff they took home.ObservationsThis club was not a club selling diet drinks (but it clearly did that). It was a club selling the social support group necessary to drink diet drinks. These diet drinks work (especially when combined with a modicum of exercise). What happens though is that normal people do not have the will-power to maintain a diet drink and exercise regime. My friend in Singapore did ‚Äì but then he rowed competitively and people into rowing are austere driven people (think all those 4 AM starts).But I am a fairly disciplined person and - without social support I could not drink these shakes.In the richer-parts of our society we have a solution to diet-and-exercise will-power problem. We hire a personal trainer (usually someone cheerful, younger and good looking) and they cajole us into weight-loss. This is a ‚Äúfor-hire‚Äù personal support group.But Herbalife is another valid mechanism of getting personal support ‚Äì and it clearly worked on the customers I saw. Personally I find it very difficult not to endorse a product that reduced to one sixth a person's insulin injection requirement. If¬†Bill Ackman thinks America would be better off without Herbalife¬†he could politely explain that at the woman's funeral.I will - in the interest of fairness - include the main negative observation: the man who ran this shop covered his rent (we worked that out) but he was cheerful man working hard (80 plus hours a week) and making an amount that was less than minimum wage. I gather than many (possibly a majority) of Herbalife clubs do not cover rent (consistent with the observation that there are lot of Herbalife clubs in Google maps that no longer seem to exist). Minimum wage appears to be the upside.This showed both the benefit and problems with multi-level marketing. The benefit is that it allows a company (in this case Herbalife) to get deep into a community and that is a necessary part of the product ‚Äì the product they are selling is community support for weight loss and they can't do that without getting into the community. The problem is that the company actively recruits distributors to the point that it is impossible for the distributors to be good businesses. Indeed as the rewards to many people in the chain are on recruitment (and you can't make it up the chain without a substantial ‚Äúdown-line‚Äù) it is likely that recruitment will continue until the distributors make nothing (or less than nothing when convinced to sign up by hard-sell rather than rational argument).There were so many Herbalife clubs around Queens that I suspect on average the Herbalife shops make something near nothing or less than nothing. The profile of a¬†Ferrari¬†driving Herbalife distributor that¬†Mr Ackman presented¬†was ‚Äì at least compared to what I saw ‚Äì ludicrous.I¬†wrote once about income distribution in the US by working out how cheap my laundry was in Brooklyn and working out that it was being done in a sweat-shop with illegal Chinese workers paid under minimum wage. [I got a lot of flack for that post from my libertarian readers.] The Herbalife distributor I met (who may also have been an illegal) had a better life than those illegal sweat-shop workers. He did not earn much more money ‚Äì but his job was community based and he interacted as a friend with a great many customers. That I think was personally satisfying and he clearly was happy with his lot. And the product saved his wife's life which trumps most things.Herbalife as exploitative in a Marxist senseHerbalife is clearly an exploitative system in the Marxist sense. The head-honcho is paid well over $70 million derived from a vast network of people earning minimum wage or less. Dan Loeb (who now controls 8 percent of Herbalife) is someone who often attacks excessive¬†salaries¬†for senior executives. This could become quite amusing.Some comments on Bill Ackman's thesisIt was striking how totally Bill Ackman's thesis fell apart from observing for just a few hours in a nutrition club.The best way of analysing Herbalife that I can find is as alcoholics anonymous for fat (and very often Hispanic) people. I joke: ‚Äúmy name is Jose and I am fat‚Äù.Herbalife works in the same way as alcoholics anonymous ‚Äì by supplying (and in this case selling) a support group to help you kick the ‚Äúfat addiction‚Äù.Like Alcoholics Anonymous it has millions of members and looks ‚Äì at least externally ‚Äì a bit like a cult.Herbalife like Alcoholics Anonymous has millions of members because it works. It does not work because one nutrition powder is better than another (indeed some nutritionists argue soy based powders are inferior). Herbalife works because of the support group.AA is probably the single most effective way devised by humanity to cure alcoholics. It is far more effective than any drug developed by pharmaceutical companies and if a drug were devised as effective as and as free of side effects as AA then it would be worth tens of billions of dollars. Even then AA probably fails a majority of times. Herbalife is among the more successful ways of curing morbid obesity (but even then it probably fails a majority of times). [I shudder to think what a weight-loss drug as effective as the Herbalife support system would be worth though - considerably more than Herbalife's market cap.]The biggest difference that I can see between AA and Herbalife is that Herbalife is (emphatically) a for-profit institution (and possibly quite an exploitative for profit institution) whereas AA is just a club.Lets run through Ackman's presentation by sectionAckman on Herbalife as a commodityFrom Page 21 to 26 of¬†the presentation¬†Bill Ackman ‚Äúdemonstrates‚Äù that Herbalife's products are not unique ‚Äì and from that he argues that they do not maintain their price position by being a ‚Äúproprietary product‚Äù. He compares the product to GNC and other brands and notes the price per serve or the price per calorie is higher.This is a complete misunderstanding of Herbalife's product. GNC and other brands are sold as commodities. Herbalife is sold with a community support mechanism.In Central Park anyone can go and have a run. It is free. It costs you $20 an hour if you exercise with a personal trainer. Comparing the price of Herbalife (sold through a network) to the GNC (sold without a network) is like comparing the cost of a run through the park without and with a personal trainer.Bill Ackman has just missed the point.Ackman on Herbalife's lack of advertisingFrom pages 27 to 31 Bill Ackman notes the lack of advertising expense on Herbalife (which he argues is very little) and says that they cannot maintain their price premium that way.This is of course garbage. Herbalife has the best advertising possible ‚Äì word of mouth. People will pay huge sums to Facebook for the hope of getting someone to ‚Äúlike‚Äù a product online and hence endorse it to their friends. Herbalife has far more powerful advertising support than that ‚Äì it is deep in the community.Alcoholics Anonymous has 2 million members and I have never seen an advertisement for the product. However like you I have heard of AA. Brand recognition for community based products is (naturally) very high. I suspect almost every reader of my blog has heard of Alcoholics Anonymous without ever seeing an advertisement.That said Herbalife does sponsor one of the biggest football teams in the world (Barcelona). It also sponsors LA Galaxy but nobody cares about them!Bill Ackman on Herbalife's research and developmentFrom page 35 to 50 Bill Ackman tells us all about Herbalife's (very thin) research and development program.He is of course right that relative to its claims Herbalife has a very thin research and development program. So what: Alcoholics Anonymous ‚Äì relevant to its claims ‚Äì has a very thin research and development program. And yet it is known to work for a lot of people and the results are well known.There is plenty of research that says social cues are important in whether you take drugs or not, whether you drink. And social cues are important as to whether you stay fat or not.You don't need a lot of research to tell you that.As Bob Dylan says:¬†you don't need a weatherman to tell which way the wind blows.The main Bill Ackman mistakePage 164 of the Bill Ackman presentation lays out the key criteria for determining whether Herbalife is illegal. Here is the slide:  I will quote this as it is the core criteria for determining whether Bill Ackman is right: Bill Ackman spends most of his presentation arguing that Herbalife's product is the business opportunity. He argues for instance that most the product is sold to "distributors". This was clearly true in the Herbalife club I visited. Almost every customer was also a distributor. They however were clearly customers - they came in - they paid their money - they drank their shake. They look like customers because they were customers.Bill Ackman calls these distributors victims of a false "business opportunity". Facts on the ground: they are customers.That fact is very inconvenient for Bill Ackman because if they are customers then Herbalife is legal and Ackman's thesis falls apart totally.Bill Ackman's logic as to why these distributors could not be customers is disarmingly simple - and amazingly erroneous. Bill Ackman argued that it was illogical for someone to sign up as Herbalife distributor for the 25 percent discount because even with a 25 percent discount the product was more expensive than commodity product available from GNC and other suppliers. [My Spanish translator came back to me with an errata on this point: he says that some of his downstream were considering the business opportunity - but the majority were distributors without any plans at all on the business opportunity.]That is true. But it misses the point.Remember those gold stars and the support group. If you buy weight loss shakes from GNC you do not get the gold stars. Buy the product from GNC and you are not part of this Latino self-help group. By not understanding Herbalife as a social support group for weight loss and by analysing the product as a commodity Bill Ackman has failed to observe what globally would add up to millions of customers. Real customers. The customers that make Herbalife legal.What this story is really aboutHerbalife is a company which combines a lot of good (think the life-saved diabetic above) with some pretty ugly features.But this is not really a story about Herbalife - Herbalife will survive globally. Like all multi-level marketing schemes it will have its ups and downs. There will be all sorts of problems (such as tax compliance throughout the scheme, cash handling, perhaps¬†even using Herbalife accounts to launder money).What this has (deservedly) become is the story about how Bill Ackman can be so wrong. He spent (by his own admission) a year and a half analysing this company and his thesis can be falsified by visiting a few clubs in his home city. Bill Ackman's thesis is the most easily falsified bear-thesis I have seen from a major hedge fund ever.You have to wonder how this happened. So I am going to tell you:¬†Bill Ackman a Harvard educated (ma gna cum Lauder) billionaire New York hedge fund manager bet over a billion dollars on a short position (imperiling his fund and his reputation) without checking the facts.And he did not check the facts because he was so rigid with a misplaced silver spoon that he could not stoop to sit on a subway for thirty minutes and talk with poor people for ninety minutes.John
When Bloomberg broke the news that Dell may take itself private yesterday, the Street jumped ‚Äî A leveraged buy-out deal, a big one... the likes of which haven't been seen since 2007. Big. Maybe too big. That's the bear argument for why this deal won't get done, brought to us by Fortune's private equity reporter, Dan Primack. His math on the deal looked a lot like ours. A takeover would cost around $23 billion as Dell is currently worth around $21 billion. If investors had to put together a 35% equity commitment that would mean PE firms would have to kick in around $5 billion after Michael Dell's shares are rolled over. Now, this morning it was reported that Silver Lake and TPG were talking to Dell about the deal. By Primack's reckoning though, a third firm would have to be brough in. From Primack: ...you'd probably need a third mega-firm to join, in addition to large co-investments from their limited partners. I've heard that Blackstone isn't currently a player, but it did just poach Dell's top dealmaker to do tech investments (his first day was yesterday)... Sounds reasonable in 2007, but not in 2013. Many of those big club deals were losers, and almost all of the participating firms currently are defendants in a related price-fixing lawsuit (including Silver Lake and TPG). All of the defendants deny any wrongdoing, but that doesn't mean they want to draw new attention to themselves by teaming up on the largest leveraged buyout in years. Moreover, firms like TPG have used their lack of recent club deals -- none in its current fund -- as a talking point when buttering up limited partners who aren't thrilled with the firm's recent performance (if it does Dell and Best Buy, that marketing line is finished). Primack goes on to point out that even if all those obstacles are overcome, the deal would still require $15 billion of leveraged financing. And while Dell does have $11 billion in cash, about $4 billion of that would have to be brought home from overseas. From Primack: "I think it's stretching the bounds of reality," one tech-focused private equity exec explained to me after the Bloomberg report came out. "It's possible, but I wouldn't hold my breath." So that's the bear side for you. ¬†
Kristin Davis, the "Manhattan Madam" who provided call girls for Eliot Spitzer, †is running for New York City Mayor, according to her website [via Absolute Return's†Lawrence Delevingne].† If she becomes the next mayor, Davis, who used to work at a hedge fund, says she will work with the industry. Davis told†Absolute Return†in an interview that she wants to work with hedge funds on compliance with SEC rules and finding a level of transparency to boost trust between the markets and the funds. † For the campaign, she's running as a Libertarian and branding herself as the "Libertarian Lady."†Her platform focuses on ending restrictions on soft drink sizes, gambling and marijuana,†AR†points out.† Now check out her bio from her campaign website here:† Kristin Davis, Libertarian, Entrepreneur, businesswoman, former Hedge Fund VP, also former Manhattan Madam who supplied disgraced Governor Eliot Spitzer with escorts. In 2008, she was convicted of 1 count of promoting prostitution in the 3rd†degree and served 4 months in Rikers Island, also forfeiting all of her assets. ìNo one values freedom as much as someone who has lost it. In prison I read Milton Freedman, Rand, Von Mises, Goldwater and†de Tocqueville. I became a deep believer in personal and economic freedom.î Said Davis. Davis ran for Governor of NY 2010 as a protest candidate on a Libertarian platform. She is a critic of Sexism in our Criminal Justice System and strong advocate of Marriage Equality and legalization and taxation of Marijuana, now running non-profit-HOPE HOUSE to combat sex trafficking and help women who are forced to a life of prostitution against their will.†www.westoptrafficking.com Kristin Davis is a member of the NY Libertarian Party and is a strong supporter of Former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson and his campaign for President We imagine she has some stiff competition.
Again and again while trying to understand the fiscal machinations of Congress, I find myself referring to a simple analytical approach acquired at university: game theory. The construct, popular among economists, sheds light both on what has happened in Washington and on how the bargaining power of its negotiating parties may evolve over time. And it points to less-than-reassuring prospects if the overriding objective is -- as, certainly, it should be -- to improve America's economic outlook in a meaningfully and sustainable manner in the years ahead.An important aspect of game theory sets out conditions under which negotiating parties end up cooperating well, and why they fail to do so. It does so based on analyzing what drives individuals in the majority of bargaining situations: incentives, access to information, initial power conditions, the extent of mutual trust, and accountability enforcement.This intuitive framework provides immediate insights into why members of Congress find it so difficult to come up with a coherent fiscal approach -- or, indeed, a coherent approach on virtually anything. Simply put, good cooperative outcomes are unlikely to emerge when, as is the case on today's Capitol Hill, individual and collective incentives are misaligned, access to information is asymmetrical, relative power is fluid, each party doubts that the other will deliver on their commitments, and there is no way to enforce credibility.For reasons detailed well by Nate Silver and others, a meaningful portion of Congress responds to local incentives and selection processes. And in today's polarized America, these regional forces do not align well with national needs.As much as the fiscal debate seems to be always forced into extreme-corner solutions -- revenue increases versus spending cuts -- the underlying issue is much more consequential. It relates to fundamentally different (and, in part, quite dogmatic) views about the role, scale and scope of government -- especially under present circumstances, where growth is sluggish, unemployment is high, safety nets are overly stretched, and income distribution has seriously deteriorated.So every time the two parties come to the bargaining table, outcomes lack both content and momentum. Indeed, each round renders the next one even more difficult and contentious.Here is the typical cycle: Responding to the "national call," the two parties' initial narratives trend towards "grand bargains" aimed at removing headwinds to growth, jobs, and prosperity. As differences prevail, this gets replaced by a "mini bargain," or one that would deliver some progress together with momentum for future success.As this also proves elusive, negotiations get quite acrimonious. If and when an 11th-hour compromise emerges, it lacks both content and momentum: The majority of meaningful decisions are postponed, and both Democrats and Republicans emerge from the experience more bitter -- at each other, and also within their respective parties.The imperfect last-minute deal on the fiscal cliff that was reached a couple of weeks ago -- and which, by the way, game theorists would have told you was the most likely outcome -- is a good example of this (though not a perfect one, as something beneficial did emerge for the county).On the positive side, the deal took an important step to stop the multiyear worsening in income and wealth inequality. But it left a dysfunctional Congress the task of addressing three big issues in the next few weeks -- and a policy mistake on just one could be sufficient to push the country into a new recession.To maintain the nation's growth and employment momentum, Congress must lift the debt ceiling, resolve the sequester and agree on a continuing resolution to keep the government running. Game theory provides three key insights on how all this is likely to evolve in the weeks ahead: It is hard to predict a domestic crisis driver. The country's debt and deficit situation do not pose an immediate threat. Social cohesion is holding up despite the severity of the unemployment crisis. And the disruptive headwinds blowing from Europe and the Middle East are nowhere near gale force at this time.This explains why a growing number of people have been exploring the creative use of exceptional powers or previously-unthinkable options -- and in particular, invoking the Fourteenth Amendment or issuing a platinum coin.Section 4 of the Fourteenth Amendment states that "the validity of the public debt of the United States authorized by law ... shall not be questioned." Some legal experts see this as providing the president with the ability to sidestep a dysfunctional Congress set to trigger a technical default on U.S. debt service obligations.Alternatively, and as I explained on Friday, legal experts believe that the U.S. Treasury has the authority to issue to itself a high-denomination platinum coin that, once deposited at the Federal Reserve, would provide it with access to more conventional forms of money to meet its payments obligations -- and, critically, do so without breaching the debt ceiling.As controversial and, in the case of the coin option, laughable as these approaches are (over the weekend, the Treasury and Federal Reserve distanced themselves from them, understandably apprehensive about their downsides) a growing number of people believe they would provide Democrats with credible threats to shift the balance of power. And, as a brilliant negotiator I know says, it is always good for your opponents to think that you are "just a little crazy."When push comes to shove, however, I doubt Democrats will use these approaches. And as I do not see a crisis that would catalyze members of Congress to put national interests ahead of local ones, we should brace ourselves for lots of high political drama in the next few weeks.At best, we will get by March a last-minute compromises that kicks most of the issues down the road; at worse, this will materialize after disruptions that sap more energy out of the economy. Whatever the outcome, Congress will again contribute to the persistence of sluggish growth and high unemployment, legitimating concerns that these will be further embedded in the structure of our economy for too many years to come.
David Zervos of Jefferies is always good for a unique take on economics, and his latest note on the debt ceiling doesn't fail to deliver. He starts by talking about, yes, the economics of the trillion dollar coin, but where he gets interesting is where he talks about how a US default could possibly occur. Without a Platinum Coin the debt limit ensures that there will come a day in the not too distant future where the Treasury general account has a zero balance. What will happen with the 100b of monthly deficit spending that cannot via funded via debt issuance? The Republicans believe it will force spending cuts of 100b/mth, or at least get the Democrats to cave on entitlement reform. Maybe, but mechanically, when that account gets to a zero balance, the guy with the toughest job on the planet will be Ben. He will have to answer the one question that haunts everyone at 20th and Constitution Ave: Will the Fed ever bounce a US Treasury check? My guess is that the answer to that is NO!† While Obama will not (and probably cannot) invoke the 14th amendment to just issue Treasury debt beyond the ceiling, Ben is not so lucky. If he were to send "insufficient funds" notices to little old ladies trying to cash US Treasury benefits checks, he may very well be in violation of the 14th amendment.† The Fed would be questioning the value of US public debt. The rubber meets the road on the Fed's balance sheet and inside the Treasury general account. The trigger on any default would have to be pulled by Ben. And its a bazooka he does not want to fire! The idea that the Fed could give the Treasury overdraft protection is one that's been denied via reports, but when the rubber meets the road, there's no guarantee of what will happen. Much like the coin debate, it would at least rekindle the question of where money really comes from. Find more Zervos at Markit Hub &gt;
Last week, investors staged a historic shift into equities. Global equity inflows were $22.2 billion, marking the second-largest week in history. Long-only equity mutual funds, a common instrument for retail investors, had their biggest week since March 2000, and emerging market equity funds recorded their biggest inflows ever. Interestingly, though, while the pros are buying up stocks, they're not buying stocks in the United States. In fact, according to BofA Merrill Lynch's monthly fund manager survey, released today, investors are underweight U.S. stocks for the first time in 18 months (click to enlarge): BofA Merrill Lynch BofA strategist Michael Hartnett writes, "In our view, investors are counting on EM,†Europe, and Japan to outperform US equities should risk assets continue to rally in Q1." Sure enough, allocations to emerging market stocks are up this month. Investors are now a net 40 percent overweight, up from 38 percent last month:  Investors are net 15 percent overweight eurozone stocks, the highest since January 2008. However in Europe, Hartnett notes that "current allocation is just 0.2 standard deviations above its 10-year average, far from overcrowded." BofA Merrill Lynch Meanwhile, investors are now net 3 percent overweight Japanese stocks, the first positive weighting since July 2011. Hartnett writes, "We note that this level of overweight is modest by historical standards. Allocation averaged net 31 percent overweight from 2003-07, which suggests Japan allocation has more room to grow. BofA Merrill Lynch Meanwhile, investors' allocation to cash and bonds fell to their lowest levels since early 2011. So, the U.S. starts the year slightly out of favor.
At a Brookings Institute panel today on fostering growth through innovation, Alcoa CEO Klaus Kleinfeld made a point you don't hear that often from top executives. Usually, regulation is regarded by business leaders as at best a necessary evil, and at worst, as something that hampers growth and innovation. In a panel on proven strategies for industry, Kleinfeld argued that smart regulation and smart legislation are essential, and can encourage innovation He brought up the example of the auto industry as part of a positive trend in manufacturing. No one would have expected that industry to be growing so soon after what he described as the "debacle" of bankruptcies, near bankruptcies, and bailouts we saw a couple of years ago.¬† Not only is the industry rebounding in America, it's actually becoming more innovative. ¬† "You have the CAFE standards, Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards,¬†which require that cars meet certain efficiency levels," Kleinfeld said, "and that's driven all sorts of innovation. ...We need smart legislation as a new foundation." One of the things that helped drive the decline of the American auto industry was that it focused on things that were out of step with what customers increasingly wanted, building big trucks rather than lightweight, more fuel efficient cars. The standards address a policy problem, in this case auto emissions, in a smart way. It gives automakers a significant lead time, but a very high goal, (54.5 miles per gallon on average by 2025) and as a result there's been significant innovation in things like lightweight materials and more efficient engines. It's a restriction that ends in better products that are more competitive worldwide.¬† Another part of building a manufacturing renaissance that Kleinfeld emphasized was attracting young people to manufacturing. Since we will see 2.8 million manufacturing workers retiring by 2018, "we have to make manufacturing sexy again." Not just people with a high school education, but people with higher degrees. Many still have a vision of manufacturing as something where you "Leave with a white shirt and come out with a dirty shirt, with grease under your fingernails," Kleinfeld said. "Most people leaving education don't even know what a manufacturing job is like," he added. It's about working to change our cultural view and changing education. Kleinfeld mentioned his native Germany as an example where manufacturing is highly valued, and is a perfectly respectable path for young people.¬† The conference is streaming here NOW READ: This Map Shows Why America's Manufacturing Renaissance Could Stay In The South And THe Midwest
National home prices including distressed sales were up 7.4 percent year-over-year (YoY) in November, the biggest increase since May 2006.¬† This is according to CoreLogic's latest home price report. On a month-over-month (MoM) basis, prices were up 0.3 percent. What's more, the geographical distribution of home price increases was strong, with all but six states posting annual increases. Excluding distressed sales home prices were up 6.7 percent YoY and 0.9 percent MoM. And October's data was revised up with home prices rising 6.7 percent from the previous reading of 6.3 percent. ‚ÄúFor the first time in almost six years, most U.S. markets experienced sustained increases in home prices in 2012,‚Äù said Anand Nallathambi, president and CEO of CoreLogic in a press release. ‚ÄúWe still have a long way to go to return to 2005-2006 levels, but all signals currently point to a progressive stabilization of the housing market and the positive trend in home price appreciation to continue into 2013.‚Äù Here are some details from the report: Here's a look at trajectory of home prices since 2002: CoreLogic
flickr/World Economic ForumThe debt debate ceiling is starting to heat up after President Obama said yesterday that he sees no alternative to raising the debt ceiling and that Congress would be "irresponsible" not to do so. Since then Fitch has come out to say that it the U.S. risks its AAA credit rating if it doesn't raise the debt ceiling. But doomsayer Nouriel Roubini says the U.S. doesn't need to panic over the debt ceiling or a downgrade for now. Speaking at a Reuters conference quoted by CNBC, Roubini explained that this is because of the U.S. dollar and treasury's safe haven status. From CNBC: "In absolute terms, the United States has significant fiscal, growth and unemployment problems. ‚Ä¶[But] paradoxically, if we don't reach an agreement in March on the fiscal debt ceiling and we get another downgrade, yields are going to fall, they're not going to go up. Everywhere else, if a country gets a downgrade, the yields go up, in the U.S. it is the opposite. ‚Ä¶"We have low growth, we have low inflation below target, we have zero federal funds‚Ä¶in 2015, we're doing QE3 (a third round of quantitative easing), maybe QE4. ‚Ä¶Every time there is a global bout of risk aversion people go into the dollar and Treasuries. At the peak of the crisis, the dollar rallied because we are the safest." Bond vigilantes can rest easy for now he said. Read the entire piece at CNBC &gt;

YouTubeLeBron James put up this home video of a 2008 dinner with Chris Paul, Warren Buffett, and Bill Gates in Las Vegas on his YouTube page this week, and it's pretty interesting. James and Buffett have had a relationship for years. LeBron once said he sometimes sends his financial statements to Buffett, and Buffett has praised LeBron's business sense repeatedly throughout the years. But this video is the first time we've seen them interact in real life. "I like this guy because he shows up with good-looking women," Buffett jokes at the start of the dinner. James was with his then-girlfriend Savannah Brinson, and Paul with his wife. You can't hear much of the conversation, but at one point Gates appears to explain a card game. The best part of the video comes at the 1:25-mark, when James and Paul are walking through the hotel after the dinner. James was just 23 years old at the time, and in the video he walks and talks with a more youthful affect than we see out of him today. "We just had dinner with a few friends of ours, you know," James brags. "Two guys by the name of Warren Buffet and Bill Gates. A lot of people call him William. Two of the powerful people in the world, you know." Here's the clip: 
Heidi Gutman/ CNBCHedge fund hot-shot Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC, has made an estimated $108 million profit so far with his long position on Herbalife, the New York Post's Michelle Celarier reports. Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products, is the stock that Bill Ackman has a massive short position on. Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, believes the company is a pyramid scheme and has a price target of zero. ¬† Not everyone agrees with Ackman, though. Just last week, Third Point disclosed that it owns 8.9 million shares, or an 8.24% stake in Herbalife.¬†The Post reports that Third Point purchased the Herbalife shares at an average price of $32. Shares of Herbalife have rallied back above the pre-Ackman short levels and that's working out nicely for Loeb. ¬† ¬†¬† Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short, shares of Herbalife are up more than 3.7%. ¬†The stock hit a¬†52-week low of $24.24 a share on December 24 and it up more than 69% since then. Shares of Herbalife closed up $4.06, or 10.14%, to end at $44.08 yesterday. ¬†The stock was last up more than 3.5% today. Loeb doesn't believe that Ackman's pyramid scheme claim has any "merit" and he called his rival's bet against Herbalife "preposterous."¬†
(1) Marital status. The civilian noninstitutional population 16 years and older that is single increased by 62.0 million to a record 121.2 million from December 1976 through December 2012. Over the same period, the number of married people increased by 25.0 million to 123.2 million. Over the past 10 years (since December 2002), the number of singles is up 20.4 million, four times the increase in the number of married persons, i.e., 5.2 million! (2) Singles. At the end of last year, singles accounted for a record 49.6% of the population aged 16 years or older. Thatís up from 37.6% at the end of 1976. (3) Never married and other singles. The Bureau of Labor Statistics compiles these monthly statistics. There are two categories of singles, namely, those who have never been married and those who are divorced, separated, or widowed. The footloose and fancy-free rose to a record 73.0 million during December, accounting for a record 29.9% of the adult population, up from 22.3% at the end of 1976. The number of previously married persons rose to a record 48.1 million, accounting for 19.7% of the adult population, up from 15.3% at the end of 1976. Adults who have never been married and have no kids arenít likely to be all that concerned about leaving the next generation with more debt than has ever been passed on by one generation to the next. The younger adults should be more concerned because they are likely to suffer the consequences. However, many of them are currently more interested in getting government-subsidized student loans. Also, most of the young singles are simply not politically organized as are older singles, especially senior citizens. Many of the seniors do have older children and grandchildren, and should be more concerned about burdening their progeny with so much debt. However, they are living longer, and are expecting the government to support them since their good-for-nothing kids wonít do it. Life expectancy at birth increased to a record 78.7 years during 2010, up from 76.8 a decade ago and 75.4 two decades ago. There is also a rapidly growing population of single mothers. They undoubtedly care about their kids. However, since many of them have low incomes, their primary concern is likely to be to receive government support rather than to worry much, if at all, about the rapidly mounting federal debt we are bequeathing to our children. The singles boom has certainly contributed to the drop in the general fertility rate (GFR) to the lowest on record. According to an October 3, 2012 release from the National Center for Health Services, the GFR for 2011 was 63.2 births per 1,000 women aged 15-44. Thatís about half the peak of 122.7 births during 1957, when the Baby Boomers were booming. The actual number of live births, on a 12-month moving sum basis, dropped from a record high of 4.33 million during February 2008 to 3.94 million in June 2012, the lowest since May 1999. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Barrels of Oil. (1) Thereís more on tap. (2) Saudis blame their output cut on weak demand. (3) Their real problem is more competition. (4) New math: US + Canada &gt; Saudi Arabia! (5) World oil demand stats show global economy growing led by EMs. (6) Record auto sales in China pumping up oil demand. (7) Detroit scrambling to more than double fuel efficiency by 2025 with lighter materials. (8) Good for copper, platinum, and aluminum. (9) Energy likely to be market performer. (More for subscribers.)
jesus solanaApple continues to crumble today, with the stock falling to around $490. Some Apple fanboys are arguing that this is all the result of misinformation and stock manipulation, but whatever, retail folks are freaking. How do we know? Because yesterday we put up a post about Apple's stock falling, and we got something we've almost never received before: A phone call from a worried lady in New Jersey, asking us for our prediction about which way Apple's stock was going to go. We politely informed her that we're not in the stock prediction biz, but she kept trying, asking what kind of website would post about Apple's stock, but then not have a view of which way it was going. When we said that a "news" website wouldn't normally predict stock prices, she then asked what people around us were predicting. Basically, it was obviously a retail holder, without too much access to insight, worried and looking for guidance. The masses are panicking. SEE ALSO: Apple's stock is falling &gt;
But the poll was shoved into the background by Franceís bombing campaign in Maliówhich released an avalanche of positive comments and support from all sides, at least in France. With impeccable timing. In a poll conducted on Friday and Saturday just before the Mali intervention, only 39% of the respondents had a positive opinion of Hollande, a new low, a plunge of 19 percentage points in seven months. A brief uptick in November had been a mirage. By contrast, Nicolas Sarkozy, during the same period in his term (January 2008), was still riding high with an approval rating of 54%. And poor Ayrault. He never even had an uptick. His ratings have gone straight to hell. Only the speed has varied from poll to poll. After seven months of watching his handiwork, only 35% of the French still have a positive opinion of himódown 21 percentage points since he took office. His predecessor, FranÁois Fillon, had never sunk this low.  ìThis raises the question of Jean-Marc Ayraultís legitimacy,î explained the Institute LH2, which had conducted the poll. Even on the left, the ìpresidential and governmental action is not convincing....î He would soon have to be sacked. Suddenly the intervention in Mali. It was triggered when jihadists, whoíd taken over parts of northern Mali, started rolling south towards Mopti, the second largest city. It has an airport, and a paved highway to the capital Bamako about 400 miles to the south. Mopti would have been the staging point for taking Bamako. So the French started bombing jihadist positions and convoys. It has monopolized French media with talking heads and voices of all stripes, and with a tsunami of articles, overflowing with support for the operations. Just before 11 p.m. Monday night, Ayrault emerged from a meeting at the HÙtel Matignon, his official residence, where heíd briefed ranking Members of Parliament. Steely-voiced, he told his compatriots: ìFaced with the threat of terrorism, the governmentís commitment will not weaken. I welcome the support shown by all political forces.î Every detail was suddenly important. Hollande left for Abu-Dhabi and Dubai, but even while traveling, heíd make decisions. Nigerian troops were on their way to Mali and would be there next week. Algeria, which borders Mali along the northern edge, vowed to close its borders, as did Maliís other neighbors. According to witnesses, about 30 French armored vehicles entered Mali from the Ivorian border town PÙgÙ. Tuareg rebels, who took control of the northern territory of Azawad early last year and declared its independence, only to be sidelined or run off by jihadists, had their own announcement: they offered to support the French. ìWeíre ready to help, we are already involved in the fight against terrorism,î said a representative of their National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad (MNLA). All day, there was similarly exciting stuff to talk aboutóand the much maligned Prime Minister may have finally found his footing. Even Marine Le Pen, head of the right-wing National Front, who has relentlessly hammered away at the government, and who berated both the Hollande and Sarkozy governments for minimizing the ìmounting Islamic fundamentalism in France,î well, even she grudgingly called Hollandeís decision ìlegitimate.î There were a few holdouts, however. Jean-Luc MÈlenchon, left-wing firebrand and 4th in last yearís presidential elections, grumbled: ìThe UN mandate stipulated that this was an African problem to be resolved by Africans.î Not known for mincing words, he added, ìTheyíre grown-ups, they have real countries, but yet again we find ourselves going back to our old bad habits of intervening here and there on the continent. We havenít learned a single lesson.î And he asked, ìWhich of the wars over the last 20 years that had to be undertaken with urgency, and that would have solved a problem, actually succeeded?î On the right, Dominique de Villepin, career diplomat, Prime Minister under Jacques Chirac, and archenemy of Sarkozy, penned an editorial that acknowledged the critical situation Mali found itself in when jihadists began rolling south, but... ìLetís not give in to the reflex of war for the sake of war,î he wrote. ìThe obvious haste, the dÈj‡-vu of the arguments of the ëwar against terrorismíî worried him. ìLetís learn a lesson from a decade of lost wars, in Afghanistan, in Iraq, in Libya.î Wars, he went on, ìpromote separatism, failed states, the iron law of armed militias.î He doubted that this war would lead to success; its goals were ill-defined, and France was fighting without a solid Malian partner. Pointing at the coups that had ousted the president in March and the prime minister in December, at the collapse of the divided army, and at the general failure of the state, he asked, ìWho will support us?î But for the moment, these concerns donít matter. France has found a theme behind which to unite. To heck with the unemployment fiasco, the declining private sector, the collapsing auto industry. A breath of fresh air for the government. To be followed by a major jump in approval ratings. And Ayrault might cling to his job for a while longer. Yet, the auto industry is at risk. ìVolkswagen has chosen to wipe out PSA Peugeot CitroÎn,î said a source in Hollandeís entourage. But now thereís a plan, a desperate, misbegotten, taxpayer-funded deal. Read.... Secret French Plan In the European War Of The Automakers.
Business InsiderFinancial journalist Michael Lewis, author of The Big Short and Moneyball, penned his first work ñ†a bestseller ñ†in 1989. In Liar's Poker, Lewis recounts his four-year stint at Salomon Brothers, the now-defunct Wall Street investment bank where the mortgage bond was invented.† While Lewis' detailed explanation of how Salomon reaped massive profits from the explosion in mortgage loans is instructive, his depictions of the larger-than-life personalities (like bond trader Lewis Ranieri and CEO John Gutfreund) jungle mentality, and other elements of the unsavory culture-du-jour†are what adds immense color to this highly entertaining work. A review†by the New York Times was effusive in its praise of Lewis, closing "Whatever the case, he's obviously as good a writer as he was a bond salesman. Perhaps that's because both jobs involve being able to tell a good story." A movie based on the book is in development, according to IMDB. We've compiled 18 moments from Liar's Poker that capture exactly why the book became an instant classic.
Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short, shares of Herbalife are up more than 3.7%. On December 24, the stock hit a 52-week low of $24.24 a share and has since rallied back in recent weeks. Shares of Herbalife closed up $4.06, or 10.14%, to end at $44.08 yesterday. ¬†The stock was last up in pre-market trading this morning. Check out this chart of Herbalife shares from December 18 to Jan. 14:¬† Yahoo! Finance Pershing Square is shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife ‚Äî a multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition and weight loss products. Last month, Ackman gave a three-hour long 342-slide presentation at a special Sohn Conference event detailing his short thesis. ¬†His short is predicated on his belief that Herbalife is a pyramid scheme. ¬† Ackman has a price target of zero and believes the company is going to fail. ¬† Following Ackman's presentation, Herbalife came out said that he used outdated and inaccurate information for his presentation. ¬†The company then held an investor and analyst day in January to rebut Ackman's claims.¬† The fund manager didn't seem impressed with their rebuttal and said he would release an updated presentation. Ackman, who has a reputation on the Street as an activist investor who tries to transform businesses, has launched a website for his short called FactsAboutHerbalife.com. ¬†He has even purchased Google ads when people search keywords related to Herbalife. He also told CNN Money's Maureen Farrell recently that he's willing to go "to the end of the earth" to see his short play out. ¬†That means he would also lobby congress to change the law if regulators deem Herbalife to be a legal business. A number of hedge fund managers don't agree with Ackman's short and have taken the long side, most notably Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC. Loeb, who owns an 8.2% stake in Herbalife, said in a letter to investors that he thinks Ackman's bet against the company is "preposterous."¬†
YouTubeMinneapolis Fed Chief Narayana Kocherlakota used to be among the more hawkish Fed chiefs. Now he's among the more dovish. And in a speech today he provides an answer of how the Fed could provide even more stimulus. Basically, the Fed could say that it won't stop easing until unemployment hits 5.5%, rather than the current 6.5% target. Here's what he said in a speech today. Understanding this is crucial to understanding the Fed's current thinking: Based on my outlook for the next two years, I‚Äôve concluded that the FOMC would better fulfill both of its congressional mandates by adding more monetary policy accommodation. But how best to do so? In its current forward guidance, the FOMC has stated that it expects the fed funds rate to remain extraordinarily low at least until the unemployment rate falls below 6.5 percent. In my view, it would be appropriate for the FOMC to provide more needed stimulus by lowering the threshold unemployment rate from 6.5 percent to 5.5 percent. To see why I say so, consider two possible scenarios. In the first, the public believes that the FOMC will begin raising the fed funds rate once the unemployment rate hits 6.5 percent. (To be clear: This belief is consistent with, but not necessarily implied by, the FOMC‚Äôs current forward guidance.) In the second, the public believes that the FOMC will defer the initial increase in the fed funds rate until the unemployment rate hits 5.5 percent. The higher unemployment rate in the first scenario means that monetary policy will be tightened sooner, which, in turn, will lead to the unemployment rate being higher for longer. Foreseeing that, people will save more in the first scenario than in the second, to protect themselves against these higher unemployment risks. Because they save more, they spend less, and there is less economic activity.1 Thus, lowering the unemployment rate threshold to 5.5 percent would increase the demand for goods and thereby push upward on both employment and prices. Would this extra monetary stimulus result in an undue amount of inflation at some point in the future? Here, I find the recent historical evidence to be comforting. The following chart documents that the medium-term inflation outlook has not risen above 2¬º percent in the past 15 years, even though the unemployment rate was at times below 5 percent.2 To me, this historical evidence suggests that, as long as the unemployment rate remains above 5.5 percent, the medium-term inflation outlook will stay close to 2 percent. Crucial concept.
From the just-released retail sales report. Check out the big year-over-year jump in people going out to eat. It's way down at the bottom. The gain in December was 7.7%. People don't go out to eat when they're not feeling good. 
Business InsiderThis post originally appeared on LinkedIn.†Follow Sallie on Linkedin// <![CDATA[secure: 1// ]]>† Research shows that financial services is the least trusted US industry, with less than half of the public believing that banks will do the right thing. Thus itís worth betting that the big banksí 2013 strategic plans all include the goal of regaining customer confidenceÖand perhaps significant dollars for new ad campaigns. But itís also worth betting that greater change is needed. Here are some thoughts on what banks should do if they are truly serious about regaining trust: Understandably, the top of banksí lists for regaining trust is:†Quit Messing Up. While the myriad regulations and bank compliance improvements since the downturn are certainly having an effect, the rash of new scandals last year does not bode well for ìhope as a strategyî in 2013. Meanwhile, bank Boards have not really used the big stick, which is fundamentally changing employee compensation. Hereís an idea:†to improve customer satisfaction, pay bank employees based on customer satisfaction†and trust†instead of based on shareholders, shareholders, shareholders. In other words, shift AWAY from incenting risk (which is what equity does, by its nature) and TO incenting trust. And if customers regain trust in a bank, its shareholders will do very well, I am confident. Take responsibility when youíre wrong and apologize. Really apologize.†Not the ìI am sorry if offense was taken.î But push the lawyers aside and be sincere. Rethink product disclosures. Todayís bank disclosures are clearly written by lawyers for lawyersÖ..and for very lonely insomniacs. The typical checking account agreement is 111 pages long, and can include detail on topics such as how interest rates are calculated in a leap year (Iím not kidding)Ö.but nothing on what the customerís interest rate actually is. Instead use some common sense on what customers would find useful, and give it to them in plain English. .... and really rethink cost disclosures.†Unfortunately, a lesson that the industry could take from the Bank of America $5 debit card fee roll-out (and roll-back) is to keep fees hidden. Donít. The real lesson there is that that the company mis-read the tolerance of its customers. More hidden fees may provide greater earnings in the short-term but will remain a long-term drag on customer confidence; and they give a real business opening to new competitors. Appoint a consumer ombudsman who reports to the Board†and whose sole job is to be the voice of the customer and the customerís advocate inside the bank. The board should hear from this person at every board meeting, just as they do from a similarly positioned head of Audit. And this person should come to the bank from the outside, as a means of providing a different voice than the echo chamber that can occur from people who have worked together for many years. Change the community volunteer days from picking up trash in parks to providing financial planning to families who need it.†Helping families plan a path to financial security is one of our countryís most significant challenges, and one that bank employees can help with. While picking up trash in parks is nice, that volunteer time can be used to much, much greater effect. And banks may then be seen as part of the solution. This list is by no means exhaustive, but would represent a real mind-set shift for the banks -- and more proactivity on the part of their Boards. (And, given that one of the bank regulators recently found that 17 of the 19 large national bank boards do not exercise proper oversight of their banks, the Boards might be open to such a stance.) If, instead, banks continue with the same approach to customer confidence, they likely wonít see a negative earnings impact this year. They may not see it next year. But a number of innovative start-ups are recognizing this trust (and customer service) gap and are moving in, and gaining some real early-stage customer receptivity. Itís time for the banks to do something meaningfully different, while they can.
Buyout firms Silver Lake Partners and TPG have held talks with Dell about taking the company private, the Wall Street Journal reports. Speculation about who could be discussing a deal with the struggling hardware company ran rampant yesterday when Bloomberg broke the news that talks were being held but didn't disclose who Dell was talking to. Dell's stock rose 13% on the news. Sources close to the situation said that a bidding group hasn't been finalized yet, but pension funds could participate in the investment while JP Morgan handles the financing. This isn't the first time CEO Michael Dell has talked about taking the company private. He considered it in 2010 but then took the option off the table. Now might be the right time, though. When the financial crisis struck in 2008, big leveraged buyouts became in possible because firms didn't have access to credit. That has changed, and some analysts think Dell's stock price is cheap enough to make this an interesting (though expensive) deal. From WSJ: That kind of figure could require buyers to come up with at least $7 billion of equity, based on other recent buyout financing, part of which could come from Mr. Dell's stake in the company. The rest would be a large bill even for two or three firms to share. And in general, since the financial crisis, investors in private-equity funds have frowned upon such big group deals because of the risk they can entail. A buyout of that type could also need in the range of $15 billion in debt, also a big chunk, especially considering that analysts and shareholders haven't been hopeful about Dell's business prospects. That said: While Dell's PC business has been struggling, (it lost its place as the world's largest PC maker to HP back in 2006) there are other parts of the business that make investors optimistic. On investment research site Sum Zero, Nicholas Snyder of Union Square Research pointed out that the non-PC business was now worth more than the PC business, and that Dell has been transitioning through that change fairly well: From Sum Zero: ...it (Dell) has a number of great businesses (notably servers, storage, deployment and support services, and software), and a strong market position among the small and medium businesses that will increasingly be consuming IT services. The concerns about the PC business are overblown and Dell's transition to a contract manufacture model have given this business a lot of operational flexibility as was well demonstrated this year... Unlike HP, Dell is not replacing lost PC revenue with expensively bought, non-synergistic, new revenue, but rather building out an end-to-end IBM-like services model at a lower price point. Dell has not had to take a write-down on any of their acquisitions, so at a minimum it appears they are not destroying value. Any way you slice it, this company is dirt cheap, regardless of what the PC business does... So maybe we have a big LBO on our hands. Wouldn't that be nice?
Comedy CentralDaily Show host Jon Stewart fired back last night at economist Paul Krugman over the idea of minting a trillion-dollar coin to work around the debt ceiling. It continued a riff that was forged over the weekend when Krugman slammed Stewart for being "lazy" in satirizing the idea. Stewart mocked Krugman as "the only creature more noble than a freshly felched unicorn" and "the rare gray-bearded urban laureate." He took issue with Krugman calling him "lazy" in a blog post over the weekend, joking that he was "banging it out four days a week, 22 minutes a day!" Stewart then played a clip of Krugman saying Stewart was "ruining his brand" by not doing enough research and mocking the opposition. "I'm pretty sure that is my brand," Stewart quipped. Then he added this kicker: "If somebody is ruining their brand with a trillion dollar coin idea, I don't think itís the†non-economist." Stewart noted that he was a fan of Krugman. Watch the full clip below: The Daily Show with Jon StewartGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,Political Humor &amp; Satire Blog,The Daily Show on Facebook
Photographed by Thierry Bal via Tatton Park Biennial 2012The December reading of producer price inflation is out. Click Here For Updates &gt; Prices fell 0.2 percent from November.¬† Economists were looking for a decline of 0.1 percent. Excluding food and energy prices, prices climbed by just 0.1 percent, which was lower than the 0.2 percent climb forecasted. Year-over-year, headline producer price inflation climbed by 1.3 percent. During the December meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed said that it would use unemployment rate and inflation rate thresholds to help guide monetary policy. The inflation rate threshold was 2.5 percent. This puts today's low PPI numbers into some context.
Flickr/garryknight UPDATE: Big beat! Retail sales for the crucial December month came in way ahead of expectations, growing 0.6% excluding autos and gas. Analysts had expected just 0.4%. Headline retail sales grew 0.5%, WAY ahead of 0.2% estimates. The full report can be found here. --- ORIGINAL Heads up: At 8:30 AM ET, we'll get December retail sales, which is one of the most watched-retail sales months of the year, given December's importance for retail. Analysts expect a 0.2% in retail sales compared to 0.3% in the month before. Retail sales ex-auto are expected to grow 0.3%. Ex-Autos and gas are supposed to grow 0.4%
Instagram/jwheymanUPDATE:¬†The January Empire State Manufacturing Survey from the New York Fed is out. Click here for updates &gt; The headline number fell slightly to -7.78 from last month's upwardly-revised -7.30 reading, missing estimates of an increase to 0.00. Below is the full release from the New York Fed's website: The January 2013¬†Empire State Manufacturing Survey¬†indicates that conditions for New York manufacturers continued to decline at a modest pace. The general business conditions index was negative for a sixth consecutive month and, at -7.8, was little changed from its recent readings. The new orders index fell four points to -7.2, and the shipments index declined a full fifteen points to -3.1. Price increases picked up, with the prices paid index rising six points to 22.6 and the prices received index rising ten points to 10.8, the highest readings for both of these indexes in several months. Labor market conditions remained weak, with the indexes for both the number of employees and the average workweek remaining below zero for a fourth month in a row. The level of optimism about the six-month outlook rose somewhat from December, but remained low compared with levels in early 2012. Significantly, the capital expenditures index fell to 4.3, its lowest reading since 2009.¬†In a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers were asked about anticipated changes in their workforce and the factors underlying these changes. Twenty-seven percent of survey respondents indicated that they expected the total number of workers at their firm to increase over the next twelve months, while 19 percent predicted declines in their workforce‚Äîa considerably less positive balance than in last January‚Äôs survey. Among firms planning to boost employment, high expected sales growth was widely reported to be the most important impetus to hiring; conversely, low expected sales growth was most widely cited as the primary restraint on hiring. Sales growth was also seen as the primary factor behind employment increases and decreases in the 2012 survey. Business Conditions Continue Their Modest Decline Business activity for New York manufacturers declined at a modest pace for a sixth consecutive month, according to the January survey. The general business conditions index was little changed at -7.8, with 26 percent of respondents reporting that conditions had improved over the month and 34 percent reporting that conditions had worsened. The new orders index fell four points to -7.2, suggesting that orders had declined. After two months of positive readings, the shipments index dropped fifteen points to -3.1, pointing to a slight fall in shipments. The unfilled orders index was little changed at -7.5. The delivery time index held steady at -2.2, and the inventories index remained negative at -8.6‚Äîa sign that inventory levels continued to fall. Price Increases Pick Up Prices increases steepened, with the indexes for both prices paid and prices received reaching their highest levels in several months. The prices paid index rose six points to 22.6; twenty-five percent of respondents reported that input prices had increased and just two percent reported that input prices had dropped. The prices received index rose ten points to 10.8. Employment indexes suggested that labor market conditions remained weak. The index for number of employees was -4.3, and the average workweek index was -5.4. Although these readings were somewhat higher than in December, both indexes were negative for a fourth consecutive month. Outlook Remains Mildly Positive Indexes for the six-month outlook remained positive and rose slightly, but generally stayed at levels below those seen a year earlier. The future general business conditions index rose four points to 22.4, with 41 percent of respondents expecting conditions to improve in the months ahead and 18 percent expecting conditions to worsen. The future new orders index climbed eight points to 25.1, and the future shipments index inched up to 23.9. Future price indexes declined, but remained well above zero. Although future employment indexes inched lower, they still conveyed an expectation that employment levels and hours worked would increase slightly over the next six months. The capital expenditures index dropped nine points to 4.3, its lowest level since 2009, and the technology spending index edged up to 5.4. Click here for the full release &gt; ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from the January Empire Fed manufacturing report, out at 8:30 AM ET. Economists expect the index to rise to a flat 0.00 reading from -8.10 last month, marking a level of neither expansion nor contraction in manufacturing. We will have the report LIVE at 8:30 AM ET. Click here for updates &gt;
From here, I grow my own organic food and raise my own livestock. I pump my own water, and have nearly a dozen wells, a canal, natural stream, and two reservoirs. I‚Äôm even producing my own biodiesel and soon installing renewable energy generators. I‚Äôve got high-speed Internet, plus backup communication platforms; weapons, plus storage for medical supplies, food, ammunition, and gold; hundreds of acres of timber; raw materials to make everything from soap to charcoal to herbal liniments. As a bonus, the commercial crops generate a healthy profit. The workers are so experienced and resourceful, it‚Äôs like having a dozen Macgyvers on your team. And it‚Äôs just gorgeous‚Ä¶ with fantastic weather. In short, this place is about as resilient and self-sustaining as it gets. It‚Äôs not an accident, either, I‚Äôve been advancing this concept (and writing about it in this letter) for years‚Ä¶ and have built a community for others to join me. Now, one might read all of this and think that I‚Äôm preparing for the end of the world. But that‚Äôs not it. The world isn‚Äôt coming to an end. It‚Äôs changing. And this is nothing new. Every few hundred years, wealth and power shifts. This has happened so many times before, it‚Äôs hard to even keep track. Mesopotamia. Persia. Macedonia. Greece. Roman Empire. Byzantium. Mongolian Empire. Ming Dynasty. Ottoman Empire. Habsburg Empire. French-Bourbon Monarchy. British Empire. Third Reich. United States of America. This change is as old as human civilization itself. And it‚Äôs happening again. Decades of unsustainable debt have caught up to the West, and wealth and power are once again shifting. In the case of the US, the government doesn‚Äôt even collect enough tax revenue to cover the costs of mandatory entitlement programs and interest on the debt. More specifically, the US government is already in the hole by nearly $250 billion before they actually start paying for government‚Äì the military, Homeland Security, national parks, etc. Yet the major topic of debate is how to take people‚Äôs guns away. It bears an uncanny resemblance to the legend of Nero fiddling. Everything about this screams ‚Äòunsustainable‚Äô. The writing isn‚Äôt on the wall, it‚Äôs carved in neon lights. You‚Äôd have to be intentionally ignoring the warning signs to miss it. Amazingly, though, this is what most people do. Our entire civilization has a vested interest in ignoring reality and pretending that everything is just fine. Of the superpowers throughout history who came before, many were in the exact same position: deeply in debt, rapidly debasing the currency, destroying freedom, and ignoring reality. People have always wanted to pretend that everything is just fine. Here‚Äôs the thing, though. When you‚Äôre dealing with governments who have unlimited resources to lie, steal, kill, enslave, defraud, and debase the currency, the wheels can stay on the bus for a long time‚Ä¶ far past the point of no return. But when the final unraveling begins, it happens very, very quickly. And history shows that the consequences are tumultuous. In the mid 19th century, the Ottoman Empire‚Äôs debt was so massive, the central government was spending 17% of tax revenue just to pay interest. In just eleven years, this soared to over 50% of tax revenue. Needless to say, default, collapse, and social turmoil came soon after. After kicking the can down the road for so long, the rate of decline was astounding. By comparison, the US government spent 19.7% of tax revenue on debt interest in 2011. And yet, interest rates in the US are practically zero! Imagine how quickly this will spiral out of control when interest rates start rising, even by a little bit. We don‚Äôt know exactly when the final unraveling will begin. And it‚Äôs really not worth trying to guess. Rather, the most prudent strategy is to invest your time, capital, and energy into ideas that make sense in any scenario. The farm is a great example. If the US government defaults on its debt next month and throws the global financial system into a tailspin, I won‚Äôt even notice down here. Yet if this ridiculous charade continues to play out for years, I won‚Äôt be any worse off for having a profitable agricultural operation and access to my own organic food. This is an important concept. If you‚Äôre willing to see the writing on the wall, there are a number of steps you can take that make sense in either scenario. Holding you gold overseas is something I have been writing about for years. If your bankrupt western government slides into insolvency and begins seizing assets or imposing capital controls, you‚Äôll be the smartest guy the room for having physical gold and silver in Singapore. Yet if nothing happens for now, you won‚Äôt be worse off for holding precious metals abroad. The idea applies across the board: holding savings in a foreign bank account. Setting up a business or trust in a stable offshore jurisdiction. Owning property abroad in a safe place. Using an overseas email provider. Seeking high quality, cost effective international healthcare. Investing in strong foreign economies. Etc. This concept‚Äì investing and diversifying internationally in ways that make sense in any scenario‚Äì is our core ethos at Sovereign Man, from this daily letter, to our premium publication Sovereign Man: Confidential, to our sold-out upcoming Offshore Tactics Workshop (featuring the most seasoned experts in the industry). If you agree with this premise and sound strategy, you‚Äôre not alone‚Ä¶ and I‚Äôd like to invite you to become a member and join a phenomenal group of others who see the world in a similar way that you do. Like this strategy, you won‚Äôt be worse off for it. Read more posts on Sovereign Man ¬ª
At an unexpected news conference on Monday he said he won‚Äôt trade cuts in government spending in exchange for raising the borrowing limit.¬† ‚ÄúIf the goal is to make sure that we are being responsible about our¬†debt¬†and our deficit - if that‚Äôs the conversation we‚Äôre having, I‚Äôm happy to have that conversation,‚Äù Obama said. ‚ÄúWhat I will not do is to have that negotiation with a gun at the head of the American people.‚Äù Well and good. But what, exactly, is the President‚Äôs strategy when the debt ceiling has to be raised, if the GOP hasn‚Äôt relented? He‚Äôs ruled out an end-run around the GOP.¬† The White House said over the weekend that the President won‚Äôt rely on the Fourteenth Amendment, which arguably gives him authority to raise the debt ceiling on his own.¬† And his Treasury Department has nixed the idea of issuing a $1 trillion platinum coin that could be deposited with the Fed, instantly creating more money to pay the nation‚Äôs bills. In a pinch, the Treasury could issue IOUs to the nation‚Äôs creditors ‚Äî guarantees they‚Äôll be paid eventually. But there‚Äôs no indication that‚Äôs Obama‚Äôs game plan, either.¬† So it must be that he‚Äôs counting on public pressure ‚Äî especially from the GOP‚Äôs patrons on Wall Street and big business ‚Äî to force Republicans into submission.¬† That‚Äôs probably the reason for the unexpected news conference, coming at least a month before the nation is likely to have difficulty paying its bills. The timing may be right. President is riding a wave of post-election popularity.¬†Gallup¬†shows him with a 56 percent approval rating, the highest in three years.¬† By contrast, Republicans are¬†in the pits. John Boehner has a 21% approval and 60% disapproval. And Mitch McConnell‚Äôs approval is at 24%. Not even GOP voters seem to like Republican lawmakers in Washington, with 25% approving and 61% disapproving.¬† And Americans remember the summer of 2011 when the GOP held hostage the debt ceiling, bringing the nation close to a default and resulting in a credit-rating downgrade and financial turmoil that slowed the recovery. The haggling hurt the GOP more than it did Democrats or the President.¬† But Obama‚Äôs strategy depends on there being enough sane voices left in the GOP to influence others. That‚Äôs far from clear.¬† Just moments after the President‚Äôs Tuesday news conference, McConnell called on the President to get ‚Äúserious about spending,‚Äù adding that ‚Äúthe debt limit is the perfect time for it.‚Äù ¬†And Boehner said ‚Äúthe American people do not support raising the debt ceiling without reducing government spending at the same time.‚Äù The 2012 election has shaken the GOP, as have the post-fiscal cliff polls. Yet, as I‚Äôve noted before, the Republican Party may not care what a majority of Americans thinks. The survival of most Republican members of Congress depends on primary victories, not general elections ‚Äî and their likely primary competitors are more to the right than they are.¬† Read more posts on robertreich.org ¬ª
Sorry, guys. Newly crowned Miss America Mallory Hagan is off the market. In fact, her boyfriend works at JPMorgan Chase. The blonde beauty's beau, Charmel Maynard, is as an associate at the New York-based investment bank. Maynard, 28, has been working at JPMorgan since 2007, FINRA records show.† The records also indicate that he did an internship there in 2006. He attended Northfield Mount Hermon School in Massachusetts, according to FINRA. †He graduated from Amherst College. Hagan, an Alabama native who moved to New York five years ago, was crowned Miss America on Saturday night wearing a stunning off-the-shoulder white gown. † What's more is Maynard seems really supportive of her being a pageant titleholder.† From the Associated Press: Hagan's boyfriend Charmel Maynard said he knows that pageants are dismissed by some, but he hopes Hagan's willingness to take on the sexual abuse issue will lend legitimacy to her new role. "I don't think it's taken seriously, but I think she's going to be a great ambassador and it could change," he said. Here's a photo Hagan Instagrammed of the couple together.† Instagram/MissNewYorkMao Here's a screenshot of his LinkedIn profile.† LinkedIn screengrab
Francisco Diez, Wikimedia CommonsJust breaking from Fitch... A new warning that a debt ceiling failure will likely cause a ratings review. We've posted the full letter bellow the dotted line. But the key paragraph is here. With no legal authorisation for net debt issuance, the Treasury would be forced to immediately eliminate the deficit - a fiscal contraction twice as great as the recently avoided 'fiscal cliff' - by delaying payments on commitments as they fall due. It is not assured that the Treasury would or legally could prioritise debt service over its myriad of other obligations, including social security payments, tax rebates and payments to contractors and employees. Arrears on such obligations would not constitute a default event from a sovereign rating perspective but very likely prompt a downgrade even as debt obligations continued to be met. --------- Fitch Ratings-London-15 January 2013: Fitch Ratings' expectation is that Congress will raise the debt ceiling and that the risk of a U.S. sovereign default remains extremely low. Nonetheless, and in line with our previous guidance, failure to raise the debt ceiling in a timely manner will prompt a formal review of the U.S. sovereign ratings. On 31 December 2012, U.S. federal government debt reached the statutory debt limit of USD16.394trn and consequently the Treasury has begun to implement extraordinary measures that will create an estimated USD200bn of additional headroom under the debt ceiling. A repeat of the August 2011 'debt ceiling crisis' would oblige Fitch to review its current assessment of the reliability and predictability of the institutional policy framework and prospects for reaching agreement on a credible medium-term deficit reduction plan. In Fitch's opinion, the debt ceiling is an ineffective and potentially dangerous mechanism for enforcing fiscal discipline. It does not prevent tax and spending decisions that will incur debt issuance in excess of the ceiling while the sanction of not raising the ceiling risks a sovereign default and renders such a threat incredible. The statutory limitation on federal debt is a long-standing feature of the U.S. fiscal framework and applies to nearly all Treasury debt, whether held by the public or in government accounts. Protracted debate prior to increasing the debt ceiling is not an exceptional event, but against the backdrop of unprecedentedly large peacetime budget deficits and outstanding debt, any delay in raising the limit would pose ever increasing risks to the ability of the federal government to honour its obligations in a timely fashion. The last time Congress approved an increase in the debt ceiling in August 2011, the federal government came perilously close to being in a situation where, in the words of the Treasury Secretary, it would be unable "to meet our commitments securely". The extraordinary measures now being enacted since 31 December 2012, together with around USD43bn Treasury deposits, are expected to allow the federal government to continue to fund itself until end-February, though this estimate is provisional and sensitive to volatile monthly budget flows. It is highly uncertain what would happen if Congress did not raise the debt ceiling before the Treasury's borrowing authority and available cash balances were exhausted. With no legal authorisation for net debt issuance, the Treasury would be forced to immediately eliminate the deficit - a fiscal contraction twice as great as the recently avoided 'fiscal cliff' - by delaying payments on commitments as they fall due. It is not assured that the Treasury would or legally could prioritise debt service over its myriad of other obligations, including social security payments, tax rebates and payments to contractors and employees. Arrears on such obligations would not constitute a default event from a sovereign rating perspective but very likely prompt a downgrade even as debt obligations continued to be met. In addition to the debt ceiling, there is uncertainty over whether USD54bn of spending cuts (sequester) deferred by two months under the agreement reached just-in-time to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff on 1 January will come into effect in fiscal year (FY) 2013 and a further USD96bn of reductions in outlays in FY14. And on 27 March, the federal government spending authority expires and, unless renewed, will result in a government 'shutdown'. Recent history suggests that short term fixes will be agreed, albeit only just before each deadline is breached, that do little more than postpone key decisions and perpetuate the uncertainty over tax and spending policies and fail to place U.S. public finances on a medium-term sustainable path. The U.S. 'AAA' status is underpinned by the country's relative economic dynamism and potential, diminishing financial sector risks, respect for the rule of law and property rights, as well as the exceptional financing flexibility that accrues from the global benchmark status of U.S. Treasury securities and the dollar. These fundamental credit strengths are being eroded by the large, albeit steadily declining, structural budget deficit and high and rising public debt. In the absence of an agreed and credible medium-term deficit reduction plan that would be consistent with sustaining the economic recovery and restoring confidence in the long-run sustainability of U.S. public finances, the current Negative Outlook on the 'AAA' rating is likely to be resolved with a downgrade later this year even if another debt ceiling crisis is averted.
From RT: A cleaner stole an empty commuter train from a train depot and drove it to a suburb of Stockholm where it derailed and slammed into an apartment building. The woman was seriously injured in the crash in the early hours of Tuesday and was flown to a Stockholm hospital. No one else was injured. A spokesman for train operator Arriva said the woman, born in 1990, stole the four-car train at a depot outside Stockholm. She then drove it about a mile (1.6 km) to the end station on the railway line, where it jumped off the tracks, careened for about 30 yards (25m) and crashed into a three-story building. Photographs from the scene showed the crumpled front car of the train buried deep into the structure. The woman's motive was not immediately clear. And here's a video of the scene: 
BofA analyst Michael Hartnett is out with his latest survey of global fund managers. The biggest take away? Pro investors are BULLISH. As this chart shows, risk appetite (as measured by the share of fund managers who are bullish) is surging to multi-year highs. BofA/ML And the flipside. The amount that pro fund managers are holding in cash is dropping to historic lows. BofA/ML Meanwhile, it's interesting to note that we're hitting these levels at the same time as retail investors are finally flooding back into stock funds.
Rihanna via TwitterGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Jan. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Maggie Medved was stuck with her Phoenix house for two years after the market crash wiped out the equity in the property. Last year, as prices in the area rose by the most in the U.S., she and her partner were finally able to sell the 3-bedroom 1950‚Äôs style home and move to a larger place. ‚ÄúWe were counting the days for when we could move,‚Äù said Medved, 40, who trains employees for weight loss company Jenny Craig Inc. ‚ÄúWe definitely knew it was a waiting game because it would‚Äôve been financial suicide if we had sold earlier.‚Äù Medved was among the 12 million borrowers in the U.S. who at the peak of the real-estate downturn owed more on their mortgages than their houses were worth, blocking them from moving or saving money by taking advantage of the lowest borrowing costs on record to refinance. As prices recovered, the number of underwater borrowers fell by almost 4 million last year to 7 million, according to JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co., and could drop to 4 million within 2 years. The housing market is rebounding faster than anyone thought possible, according to Blackstone Group LP‚Äôs global head of real estate Jonathan Gray, as the Federal Reserve buys mortgage bonds to keep rates near record lows and investors sop up a diminishing supply of properties for sale. Housing construction could boost U.S. gross domestic product by 0.4 percentage point and home price appreciation may add another 0.2 percentage point, Bank of America Corp.‚Äôs senior economist Michelle Meyer forecasts.¬† ‚ÄúIt supports household wealth, consumer confidence and can generate greater credit creation,‚Äù Meyer said. ‚ÄúIf prices are rising, homeowners believe that they will once again have an appreciating asset. It‚Äôs a very big change in how they think about their wealth and their balance sheets.‚Äù Medved‚Äôs Phoenix home was on the market for two days before it sold for $85,000, just shy of the price paid in 1998. She and her partner Wendy Thomas bought a larger property with a pool for $210,000 in Glendale, about 10 minutes away. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôd outgrown the house and the neighborhood took a turn we didn‚Äôt like,‚Äù Medved said. ‚ÄúAlmost 12 years later we were in the hole $30,000. We couldn‚Äôt take that much of a loss and needed to stay regardless of what the neighborhood had become.‚Äù Arizona‚Äôs capital city is leading the U.S. in price appreciation, surging 22 percent in the 12 months through October, according to an S&amp;P/Case-Shiller index, which had the biggest year-over-year advance since May 2010. Eighteen of the 20 cities in the index showed increases from a year earlier. Even with the gains, Phoenix prices were down about 45 percent through November from their 2006 peak, according to Zillow Inc. Nationally, prices peaked in May 2007, according to the real-estate website, and are down 19 percent. Prices of properties in Phoenix climbed as the inventory of houses for sale dropped to about 14,700 in December, about half of the normal level, according to Tina Waggoner, a real estate broker in Phoenix, and the one who sold Medved‚Äôs property last year. ‚ÄúThe supply has dropped substantially,‚Äù said Waggoner, who specializes in distressed sales. ‚ÄúCash investors are beating out buyers all the time.‚Äù JPMorgan analysts led by John Sim estimate the price growth last year was responsible for a drop of almost 4 million in underwater borrowers. The number of homeowners that owe more on their mortgages than their properties are worth may fall to 4 million by the end of 2015, according to Sim, whose team is the top-ranked for residential mortgage securities in Institutional Investor magazine‚Äôs annual survey. While a 5 percent increase in home prices could lower the number of underwater borrowers to just above 5 million, a move of that magnitude in the other direction would push it back over 10 million, he wrote in the Jan. 4 report. Supply across the country is being been constrained as institutional investors including Blackstone and Colony Capital LLC have pushed out traditional buyers competing for a dwindling number of properties. Blackstone, the largest U.S. private real estate owner, has accelerated purchases of single-family homes as prices jumped faster than it expected, spending more than $2.5 billion on 16,000 homes to manage as rentals, Gray said during an interview last week. That‚Äôs up from $1 billion of homes owned in October, when Blackstone Chairman Stephen Schwarzman said the company was spending $100 million a week on houses. Underwater borrowers, who can‚Äôt sell without taking a loss, contributed to rising levels of foreclosures, which blighted neighborhood prices by increasing the number of abandoned homes. It also increased the phenomenon of borrowers who saw little chance of their homes ever being worth what they owed on it sending the keys back to the bank and moving out, known as strategic default. Foreclosure starts dropped 28 percent in November from a year earlier, data provider Lender Processing Services Inc. wrote in a report this week. As real estate prices rise further, more homeowners will emerge from negative equity and may decide to sell, adding to supply. Still, increasing prices will have a more gradual effect on the housing market, said Karen Weaver, head of market strategy and research at investment firm Seer Capital Management LP in New York. ‚ÄúHome prices are not rocketing up,‚Äù said Weaver. ‚ÄúBut all the trends are in place. You have an improvement in the negative equity situation and you have a reduction in the amount of people in the default bucket.‚Äù Home values climbed by more than $1.3 trillion to $23.7 trillion since the end of 2011, according to Zillow, and prices will rise by 3.3 percent after an estimated 4.5 percent jump last year, based on estimates of 15 economists and housing analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales of existing homes will increase about 7.2 percent in 2013 to 4.98 million, the highest since 2007. Increasing prices compounded with Fed efforts to keep mortgage rates low could widen the population of borrowers eligible to refinance and have implications for bond investors. Higher levels of refinancing would be a boon for securities without government backing such as subprime bonds and option adjustable-rate mortgages issued during the housing boom that trade at discounts to par. Faster prepayments could hurt holders of government-backed mortgage bonds, whose prices average almost 108 cents on the dollar, according to Bank of America data. The improving housing market has already helped the broader economy heal after the crash triggered the worst recession since the Great Depression. The unemployment rate has dropped to 7.8 percent, the lowest level since January 2009 and Fed officials in December projected economic growth in a range of 2 percent to 3.2 percent in 2013. ‚ÄúFor most middle class households, homes are by far their biggest asset,‚Äù Weaver said. ‚ÄúSo once the housing market starts to recover it helps consumer spending, it helps the whole economy. --With assistance from Jody Shenn in New York. Editors: Pierre Paulden, Rob Urban To contact the reporters on this story: Heather Perlberg in New York at perlberg@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story: Rob Urban at robprag@bloomberg.net; 
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Political instability in emerging markets, led by China, will be one of the biggest risks for markets in 2013, Ian Bremmer, president of political risk firm Eurasia Group, said on Monday. "I think that emerging markets in general, the level of political instability, is underpriced for 2013," Bremmer said at a Thomson Reuters Newsmaker event in New York. China, the world's second-largest economy, is high on the lists of worries, he said, citing ongoing tensions with Japan and uncertainty about the investment atmosphere. "The level of uncertainty around investing in China is many magnitudes greater than it is in the United States, but no one ever says they're on the sidelines because of uncertainty in China," Bremmer said. Since the 2008 financial crisis, large developing economies, including China, Brazil and India, have increasingly driven global growth, with some expanding by as much as 10 percent a year. But those rates started to slow in 2012 - China was expected to have grown by less than 8 percent last year and economists expect Brazil to expand at just more than 3 percent next year. With global growth rates likely to be suppressed for years to come, "people will have to stop fetishizing growth and pay attention to places that are more resilient," he said. "That really does not benefit China" and other emerging markets, Bremmer said. Countries must demonstrate continued political and economic development if they are to remain attractive to global investors, Bremmer said. "A lot of times, they don't have that," he said, citing Russia, Ukraine and Venezuela as examples. "That's a real problem." CHINA SLOWDOWN Nouriel Roubini, chairman of Roubini Global Economics and an economics professor at New York University's Stern School of Business, added that China was the biggest risk for the second half, when he said growth could slow to about 6 percent - not a hard landing but a slowdown that could hurt global growth. "It's not a hard landing, but close enough," he said. "I still worry about a hard landing in China." "My fear is the new leadership is very cautious and will carry out reforms much more slowly than necessary," Roubini said, adding that rapid stimulus spending could turn into an investment bust in the second half of 2013. China's annual economic growth is expected to have quickened to 7.8 percent in the fourth quarter, a Reuters poll showed, after seven quarters of weaker expansion. U.S. RISKS But Roubini said risks in the advanced world should not be overlooked, either. "In absolute terms, the United States has significant fiscal, growth and unemployment problems," he said. A modest increase in hiring and a steady rise in housing prices have sparked hope that the U.S. economy was gaining traction in late 2012 despite weak business confidence and falling demand from overseas. Most economists expect the world's biggest economy to grow at about 2 percent this year. But Roubini said U.S. lawmakers' inability to strike a grand bargain that achieves reform of entitlement and spending and long-term deficit reduction could keep growth around 1.6 percent. Both Bremmer and Roubini said they expected U.S. lawmakers to "kick the can" again when it comes to long-term fixes to the tax system, entitlement spending and deficit reduction. Congress struck a deal to raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans on New Year's Day but put off important decisions on spending until the spring. Republicans are also threatening not to raise the government's legal borrowing limit unless the White House commits to deep spending cuts. But Bremmer said the U.S. dollar's role as the world's safe haven and the country's economic resilience should ensure that it remains a favored destination for global investment. (Reporting by Steven C. Johnson and Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Diane Craft and Lisa Shumaker) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Wikimedia CommonsGoldman's Alec Phillips writes in a note that the automatic spending cuts required by the so-called "Sequester" (the spending caps imposed by the 2011 debt ceiling deal) are now a matter of "when" and not "if." He examines the sequester as part of the broader fiscal triple threat that we're seeing right now: Debt ceiling + ongoing budget resolution + sequester. While the debt ceiling has the potential to do the most damage, from a probabilistic standpoint (because the debt ceiling is unlikely to be breached) the sequester has the most potential to do real harm. He writes: ¬†Allowing the sequester to hit would, in our view, have greater implications for growth than a short-lived government shutdown, but would not be as severe as a failure to raise the debt limit. Although Republicans in Congress generally support replacing the defense portion of the sequester with cuts in other areas, there is much less Republican support for delaying them without offsetting the increased spending that would result. Phillips goes on: If the sequester were fully implemented, it would have very disruptive effects in some areas of the budget, particularly defense. In order to fulfill the requirements of the sequester, the Department of Defense (DoD) would need to reduce spending authority by around 9% for FY2013. The administration would have little flexibility in how to implement this cut, so every program, project, and account would need to be cut by the same amount. This would mean, for example, furloughing most civilian DoD employees for a full month before the end of the fiscal year, and cutting basic activities like healthcare for active-duty military and aircraft maintenance.On the non-defense side, the cuts would be similarly disruptive though the political effects might not be as salient.¬† Sequestration would be much more disruptive in 2013 than it would be in 2014 and beyond. The budget agreement that Congress reached in the summer of 2011 cut spending through two mechanisms: (1) annual caps on congressional appropriations and (2) the sequester, which cuts the level of spending authority by $109bn below the cap just mentioned. Since the 2011 law called for sequestration to take effect January 1, 2013--three months into the fiscal year--it was structured as an across the board cut to the spending level already in place. For 2014 and beyond, the sequester simply lowers the cap mentioned earlier by an additional $109 billion. That means that instead of across the board cuts, for FY 2014 and beyond Congress can appropriate funds as it sees fit as long as it stays below the caps. Delaying the sequester to the start of the coming fiscal year would not simply "kick the can" on fiscal restraint but it would also allow a less disruptive and more efficient cut to be implemented. This chart shows the various fiscal drags the economy is experiencing, including the spending cuts. Goldman Sachs ¬† For a further look at the economic impact of the sequester, see here &gt;
Pakistan, which is always one of the most geopolitically interesting countries in the world, appears to be having another major political upheaval. The Supreme Court has ordered the arrest of the prime minister. #BREAKING: Pakistan Supreme Court orders arrest of PM Raja Pervez Ashraf in connection with corruption allegations. More soon. #BREAKING: Pakistan PM ordered to be arrested for alleged involvement in kickbacks in rental power agreements. According to Pakistani news site Dawn.com, the prime minister has been ordered to appear in court tomorrow. 16 people total have been arrested. Meanwhile, the Karachi stock exchange just plunged about 2.7% within seconds of the news. The Karachi Stock Exchange
Hating/shorting the Japanese yen is an incredibly popular currency trade that's been on for a few months, as the country's new Prime Minister favors all kinds of monetary and fiscal easing. Last night, it had a very sharp reversal. Here's USD vs. JPY jutting straight down, a move that continues to this morning. FinViz So what's the story? Here's SocGen's Kit Juckes' take on it: ¬†Japanese Economy Minister Akari Amari warned overnight that excessive yen weakness would cause a spike in import prices, and in so doing, triggered a correction in the strongest trend in currency markets. Official comments on policy and the currency have been one-way traffic ‚Äì weakening the yen ‚Äì since the elections last month. I suspect that thee is near-unanimity in the market that the yen has fallen too far, too fast, but also enthusiasm to sell into corrections such as this. Such consensus argues for a choppy market for now, rather than clear direction. T
Yesterday was a big day for debt ceiling news, as both Geithner and Obama chimed in, warning the GOP that without a clean lift, that there would be economic calamity. Checks for all kinds of government programs (the FAA, Social Security, etc.) would not go ut under a debt ceiling breach, warned Geithner in a letter. But the one thing that neither Geithner nor Obama did not say was that we'd necessarily default on the debt. This is what would take a crisis into a historic crisis. Unfortunately, in political reporting there's a lot of sloppy language. People don't have an agreed upon definition of default, but one is needed, since the difference between a debt default, and not making payments to a normal domestic supplier or program is profoundly different. So there's a word missing. Default should mean not making a debt payment. Government shutdown should mean something like 1995, where appropriations lapse. It'd be nice if reporters and politicians had a new word to describe a massive non-payment of obligations, that didn't quite reach a debt default, since there's a chance that that could happen.
From the NY Times: Obama Says G.O.P. Won‚Äôt Get ‚ÄòRansom‚Äô to Lift Debt Limit ‚ÄúThey will not collect a ransom in exchange for not crashing the American economy,‚Äù Mr. Obama vowed in the East Room, a week before his second inauguration. ‚ÄúThe financial well-being of the American people is not leverage to be used. The full faith and credit of the United States of America is not a bargaining chip.‚Äù CR note: The "debt limit" is not about spending - it is about paying the bills. The key in the short term is to NOT reduce the deficit too quickly (the fiscal agreement will probably add a 1.5% drag to the economy in 2013).¬† The key in the long term is put the debt on a sustainable path. These are not contradictory, and right now we are on a path to reduce the deficit to about 3% of GDP in 2015.¬† That is about the right pace following the financial crisis.¬† That gives¬†policymakers time to address the long run issues. Tuesday economic releases: ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM ET, Retail sales for December will be released. There have been a number of reports of "soft" holiday retail sales. The consensus is for retail sales to increase 0.2% in December, and to increase 0.3% ex-autos.. ‚Ä¢ Also at 8:30 AM, the BLS will release the Producer Price Index for December. The consensus is for a 0.1% decrease in producer prices (0.2% increase in core). ‚Ä¢ Also at 8:30 AM, the NY Fed Empire Manufacturing Survey for January will be released. The consensus is for a reading of 0.0, up from minus 8.1 in December (below zero is contraction).  ‚Ä¢ Also at 8:30 AM, Corelogic will release their House Price Index for November 2012. ‚Ä¢ At 10:00 AM, the Manufacturing and Trade: Inventories and Sales (business inventories) report will be released.
Wikimedia CommonsFor all of the excitement with the debt ceiling, and all that, markets are going nowhere. Europe is basically totally flat. Italy is down less than 0.1%. France is up less than 0.1%. Germany is down 0.24%. US futures are a little more red, but nothing too notable. There were gains in Asia. China added 0.6%, and Japan added 0.7%, despite a sharp reversal in the yen selloff. Today: A key retail sales report, and undoubtedly more debt ceiling chatter.
