Every year, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg picks a personal challenge, something hard, and works on it daily for a year. The point of the challenge is to give himself perspective for building new products "by living in different worlds and really going deep on things.¬†Doing something for a year, you have all these interesting unintended consequences," he said on stage Wednesday at the TechCrunch Disrupt conference. "And the other theme for me is willpower. The other thing about building things is seeing things through. So I try to pick things that are hard for me," he explained. For instance, one year, he challenged himself to wear a tie every day. This year, he challenged himself to meet one new person, outside of Facebook, every day. That means having an honest-to-goodness, face-to-face conversation. He was surprised that this challenge "turned out to be really easy" because he meets more new people than he realized. "I thought, because I'm so introverted, that I wasn't talking to a lot of people externally," he said. Not so. Not all of these challenges have gone so well. One year, he "tried to" learn Mandarin Chinese, he said, admitting that he's "terrible" at learning languages. He set up regular meetings with Manderine-speaking Facebook employees and "it was great." He learned some Manderine and met new people but the language was so hard, he did "table it" before he was fluent.
If you haven't been paying attention, the stock market is on a roll. The Dow is up triple digits every day this week, and basically the entire market has been on a tear since the beginning of September. Here's a chart of S&amp;P futures. You can see the market begin to take the escalator right at the beginning of the month. FinViz There was so much hype and concern about September (Taper! The budget! Syria!) And well none of that has gone away. But once again, the Hindenburg Omen spotters have been proven wrong, as stocks near their old highs.
It's a quiet start to Thursday. Japan is open, and the market is down slightly. Nikkei.com This comes right after a whiff on machine orders. Per Deirdre Wang Morris, they were flat for the month compared to expectations of a 2.4% rise. Bigger picture, markets around the world have been on a tear, especially US ones.
Over the last few years, it's become fashionable to idolize Apple cofounder Steve Jobs and more-or-less dis Microsoft cofounder Bill Gates. But Mark Zuckerberg is having none of that. "When I was growing up, Bill Gates was my hero," Zuckerberg said on stage at the TechCrunch Disrupt conference on Wednesday. To which Michael Arrington, on stage interviewing him, responded. "Oh come on! He's like Darth Vader. He not Luke Skywalker. He's the bad guy." "No he is not," Zuckerberg defended. "Bill Gates ran one of the most mission-driven companies I can think of. Microsoft had a great mission. To put a computer on every desktop and in every home." He added "There are companies that define themselves by their way of doing things, like the HP Way, and there are companies that define themselves by making a concrete change in the world. Microsoft did that. It was an incredibly inspiring company." Bill Gates "is one of the greatest visionaries that our industry has ever had," Zuckerberg said. He's put his money where is mouth is. Facebook sold Microsoft a†1.6 percent stake in 2007, although Gates was no longer running the company at the time.† Zuckerberg was also one of the first 17 billionaires to participate in Bill Gates' Giving Pledge, which is a commitment by the world's wealthiest people to give the majority of their wealth away to philanthropy.
WIkimedia CommonsSugar cane plantation in MauritiusThe debate over sugar is heating up. Initially perceived as innocuous, sugar is increasingly coming under the scrutiny of health officials globally, as new studies point to a strong link between excess consumption and the twin epidemics of obesity and diabetes type II. Credit Suisseís Research Institute weighed in on this debate this month with the release of a sweeping report on the issue entitled, ìSugar Consumption at a Crossroad.î The report shows that over the past 30 years, the global average daily sugar consumption per person has risen 46 percent to the equivalent of 17 teaspoons, which is nearly double the maximum level recommended by the American Heart Association. The worst offenders are the U.S., Brazil, Argentina, Australia and Mexico, which consume more than double the world average. The Financialist The surge in intake of added sugar ó sugar not found in natural products, like fruit or milk ó has coincided with a significant increase in the rates of obesity and diabetes, which currently affect nearly 900 million people around the world and cost the global healthcare system more than $1 trillion a year. The statistics have certainly caught the eye of the $24 billion global sugar industry, as growing public concern about the health effects of sugary drinks and the ballooning cost of treating the associated diseases ramp up pressure on authorities and companies to take action. Sugar-sweetened drinks, rather than processed foods, are in the sights of anti-sugar campaigners because of the way the body processes liquid calories. Sugar in soft drinks is completely digested by the body without the consequential satiation of appetite that happens with solid food. In addition, sugary beverages account for over 40 percent of the added sugars we ingest. But despite the huge social and economic impact of obesity and diabetes, governments and health officials only recently started to introduce measures aimed at curbing sugar consumption, such as anti-soda advertising campaigns and bans on vending machines in schools, wrote Credit Suisse analysts Stefano Natella, Mujtaba Rana and Vamil Divan, co-authors of the report. These efforts have had limited success due to the strength of the politically powerful sugar and beverage industries, which New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg discovered when he attempted to restrict the size of full-calorie soda drinks. The move was strongly opposed by beverage makers and other business groups, and eventually deemed unconstitutional by an appeals court earlier this year. Taxing the Sweet Stuff While there is no silver bullet to reducing sugar demand and reversing the obesity and diabetes type II epidemics, Credit Suisse said there is plenty of evidence to show taxing sugar-sweetened drinks is effective. ìWe believe that taxation would be the best approach and will provide the best outcome: reducing consumption while helping the public sector deal with the growing social and medical costs,î the analysts wrote. Pointing to the impact of taxation on consumption of tobacco and alcohol, they predict that even the mere threat of taxes would ìdrive companies, or at least the largest ones, to self-regulate and take concrete actions to reduce the amount of added sugar in their products.î Taxation also has strong public support. A recent survey in California shows 68 percent of respondents backed taxing full-calorie sugary soft drinks if the revenue was used to support school nutrition and physical activity programs. A poll in New York City showed 76 percent of those questioned were in favor. But the debate about taxing sugar-sweetened soft drinks is divided along health and socio-economic lines, Credit Suisse noted. Support is highest among underweight and normal weight people, as well as those with the highest income and education level. Taxation has proven effective in France, where a 2 euro cent (3 U.S. cent) tax on sugary and artificially flavored drinks ó equivalent to nearly 5 percent of the overall value ó reduced the carbonated soft drink market by 5 percent in terms of volume. In Mexico, one of the worldís biggest consumers of soda, legislators are considering a 1 peso (8 U.S. cent) per-liter levy on sweetened drinks as part of a financial reform package sent to Congress earlier this month. To date, there is no conclusive scientific research proving a causal relationship between sugar consumption and obesity and diabetes type II, but most doctors surveyed by Credit Suisse believe the data supporting the connection is convincing. A Credit Suisse survey of 152 doctors in the U.S., Europe and Asia found that nearly 90 percent believed there was a strong link between excess sugar consumption and obesity, based on the patients they see in their day-to-day work. An even greater percentage, 91 percent, saw a linkage to diabetes type II. The Financialist That said, consumers are not likely to suddenly stop drinking full-calorie soft drinks, no matter how overwhelming the evidence that sugar is a leading cause of obesity and diabetes type II. ìIt took a long time once the first research came out that tobacco was life threatening before people adapted,î Natella told The Financialist. The Zero Cal Response In reality, Credit Suisse expects few countries to introduce significant taxes on sugar-sweetened drinks. But it might not matter. Large beverage companies such as Coca-Cola and Pepsi are already responding to growing public anxiety about the health effects of sugar, experimenting with natural sweeteners with zero or minimal caloric content to replace sugar and controversial artificial sweeteners in their drinks. Credit Suisse said companies should be taking steps to increase the availability and promotion of zero-calorie versions of their beverages in emerging markets, which could have a significant impact on the rate of diabetes type II and obesity in those countries. Data shows diet drinks make up less than 10 percent of the carbonated-drink market in Asia, Eastern Europe, Southern Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. In Western Europe, North America and Australasia ó where the average consumer enjoys a higher income and education level ó diet drinks account for between 24 percent and 36 percent of consumption. ìIs it just a coincidence that Mexico ranks No. 3 in per-capita soda consumption and No. 2 in global obesity rates, and at the same time sugary soft drinks representing 95 percent of total soft drink consumed nationally? We do not think so,î Credit Suisse said. The Financialist Global sugar demand has been growing at 2 percent a year for the past decade, but it is likely to slow significantly in the coming five to 10 years as public concerns about the health effects of sugar gain momentum, Credit Suisse said. This is clearly bad news for the sugar industry, but also for a number of other sectors. Makers of artificial sweeteners such as aspartame, which has suffered from debates over its safety, are also likely to struggle as better-tasting natural alternatives become available. Soft drink companies, on the other hand, have the chance to ìcome out on the winning sideî if they make the right changes to their product offerings, Credit Suisse analysts said. Unlike tobacco and alcohol companies, beverage makers have the advantage of being able to offer a healthier version of their products. Who is sitting in the sweet spot? Makers of natural sweeteners. The race for a natural, non-calorie alternative to sugar should see this market expand rapidly in the coming years, the Credit Suisse report predicted.
BloombergJim GrantPlenty of economists, art dealers and collectors have warned of an art bubble over the past year. But there is one sure sign that the art market is overdone: Jay Z is now rapping about Warhol, Basquiat and Art Basel. "It ain't hard to tell  I'm the new Jean-Michel Surrounded by Warhols  My whole team ball  Twin Bugattis outside  Art Basel" Market guru James Grant quotes Jay Z's "Picasso Baby" in his latest Grant's Interest Rate Observer, arguing that prices in the contemporary art market may not be justified by long-term value. While well-hyped artists like Jeff Koons, Damien Hirst and Jean-Michel Basquiat are fetching eight-digit prices, it's unclear whether their work will withstand the test of time, art critics and museums. It's hard to tell, for instance, whether one of Koons' famous pieces, "New Hoover"‚Äîfour vacuum cleaners in an acrylic case ‚Äîwill be valued as a work of genius or "just another vacuum cleaner," Grant said. (Read more: Art is the next gold: Novogratz) "Modern art is valued in terms of modern money," he wrote. The Fed's low-interest-rate policies have driven the wealthy increasingly to collectibles of all kinds, including art, cars and jewels. "Miniature interest rates have reduced the opportunity cost of investing in any kind of nonyielding asset." And while Koons and Basquiat are hot now, they might end up like the English portraits of the early 19th century, whose frenzied boom was followed by a spectacular bust. Prices never recovered. So how can a smart investor play the collectible game without getting sucked into the Koons hype? Grant suggests buying historical documents: letters from Abraham Lincoln, bills signed by Thomas Jefferson and even public credit reports from Alexander Hamilton. Of course, prices for historical documents have soared along with art. And a yellowed letter doesn't look as good over the mansion mantelpiece than a Hirst or Barnett Newman. But the names Jefferson and Lincoln may be more likely to hold up over time. "Sell Newman, we say, and Jeff Koons, too: buy the Founding Fathers and‚Äîas far as that goes‚ÄîAbraham Lincoln," Grant writes. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's Robert Frank. Follow him on Twitter  
APThe coming battles over a bill to keep the government funded and raising the debt ceiling could turn into a disaster for Republicans, a new CNN/ORC poll suggests. According to the poll, 51% of respondents would blame Congressional Republicans in the case of a government shutdown. That's up from 40% the last time a government shutdown was a potential issue ‚Äî back in March. The government needs to pass a new continuing resolution by Sept. 30 to avoid a shutdown and keep the government funded. Only one-third of respondents said they would blame President Barack Obama in the case of a shutdown. That's down from 38% back in March, and it leads to a significant split that could place the blame mostly on the shoulders of Republicans. The number looks even worse for Republicans in the debate over raising the debt ceiling ‚Äî where many Republicans are looking to carry out a fight. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said last month that the debt ceiling will need to be hiked by mid-October.¬† But according to the CNN poll, if it's not raised, 54% said they would blame Congressional Republicans. Only 25% would blame Obama. The poll shows that the public has legitimate concerns over both prospects. Combined, 62% of respondents said that a failure to raise the debt ceiling would either lead to a "crisis" or "major problems." And 74% said the same about a government shutdown if it lasted "a few weeks." On Wednesday, House leadership pulled from the schedule a stopgap spending bill because of internal disagreements over the funding it would, in effect, appropriate for the Affordable Care Act. GOP leaders' plan would¬†send two bills to the Senate: One that keeps the government open and spending about as much money as it has been, and another that amends that spending bill to defund various parts of Obamacare implementation. They would allow the Democrat-controlled Senate to pass the former, as long as there is a vote on the latter. Conservative House members and conservative groups staunchly opposed that plan. In any case, they have three weeks to figure it out ‚Äî and then another two to three weeks to debate the debt ceiling. The poll also shows vulnerabilities for Obama. Only 43% approve of how Obama is handling the economy, and 36% approve of how he's handling the federal-budget deficit.¬† And though they might be worried about using Obamacare as a bargaining chip, public support for the health care law has dipped 12 points over the past nine months.¬†In January, 51% said they favored all or most of the provisions in the Affordable Care Act. That number has dipped to 39%.
REUTERS/David MoirFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 3 Key Things Can Lead To Success With Active Management (Vanguard)  Active management tries to beat the market, while passive management tries to mirror the market. After the financial crisis there has been a loss of confidence in active management, as passive investing strategies have outperformed. Daniel Wallick of Vanguard which is known to champion indexing, says there are three pre-requisites for successful active management. 1. Low cost - "low cost is the only thing we know ahead of time that can improve the odds of investors in outperformance. We‚Äôve looked at a variety of different factors. We‚Äôve run analysis and, really, the only thing we know ahead of time that can improve odds is low cost." 2. Talent- "low cost alone won‚Äôt guarantee outperformance, and that‚Äôs why you also need to be able to acquire talent." 3. Patience - "given the relative inconsistency of any outperformance‚Äîand this is true for all managers‚Äîyou also have to have patience to live with those decisions." "Let me just give you one set of numbers around the patience decision. We looked at all the active funds over the last 15 years, and we found that 18 percent of them outperformed. Practically all of them had at least five years where they underperformed through that 15-year period. So practically all of them underperformed for a third of the time. Now, these all ended up being long-term winners. Of those that outperformed, two-thirds of them also had three consecutive years of underperformance. Using the three-year track record as a reason to get rid of somebody: That actually would have kicked out two-thirds of the winners along the way." How To Check On A Financial Professional 's Title (SEC/NASAA) The SEC And North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA) together have released an investor bulletin reminding investors to be cognizant of the difference in titles and licenses. This is because some titles require professionals to pass exams and meet certain ethical standards, while others require very little effort. To check their credentials and the SEC and NASAA urge investors to ask the following questions. 1. "Who awarded your title?" 2. "What are the training, ethical, and other requirements to receive the title?" 3. "Did you have to take a course and pass a test?" 4. "Does the designation require a certain level of work experience or education?" 5. "To maintain the designation, are you required to take refresher courses?" 6. "How can I verify your standing with this organization?" The Complete History Of The Financial Crisis In One Chart (U.S. Department of the Treasury)  "In the span of a few weeks, many of our nation's largest financial institutions failed or were forced to merge to avoid insolvency," wrote the Treasury Department's Anthony Reyes. This chart from the Treasury Department shows the trajectory of the S&amp;P 500 and consumer sentiment during the financial crisis on till 2010. US Department of the Treasury Building An Excellent Team Requires 2 Key Things (The Wall Street Journal)  Evan Steinberg of Morgan Stanley understands the importance of having a great team to a big advisory business. In a new WSJ column, he writes that this requires two key things. First, is "hiring an excellent team." For this you want someone with excellent contacts, someone who understands "portfolio construction, risk management and financial planning," but also a "great administrative and operational staff that knows the business." The other is finding the right partner. "I find that it's much healthier to work with a younger adviser who is starting from scratch. I wanted to have a younger partner who I could develop and teach about the business. I wanted to find someone who had a broad vision of the world that was similar to mine, but it is also important to find a partner with complementary skills." Dividend Stocks And Homebuilder Stocks Have Gone Out Of Style (Dr. Ed's Blog)  "During the winter season, dividend-yielding stocks were the rage. They fell out of favor during the summer as bond yields soared. For example, S&amp;P 500 Utilities were up by 18.4% ytd on April 30. Now they are up 6.1%. (However, S&amp;P 400 Utilities are still up 16.8% ytd.) S&amp;P 500 Telecom Services is up only 2.7%, well below the peak ytd gain of 15.6% on April 23," writes Dr. Ed Yardeni. But it isn't just dividend-yielding stocks, interest-rate sensitive stocks have gone out of favor too. "Homebuilding and other interest-rate-sensitive stocks were also sold along with bonds during the summer. S&amp;P 500 Homebuilding is down 29.6% since May 14, and down 9.6% ytd. However, Household Appliances and Home Improvement Retail are still up solidly so far with gains of 34.6% and 24.2%. While investors are worrying that rising mortgage rates may slow home sales, they must expect that owners of existing homes will spend plenty of money on remodeling."
REUTERS/Henny Ray AbramsWith Apple down 5% after its iPhone announcement yesterday, investor Carl Icahn, who has been super vocal on Twitter about his investment in the company, is on CNBC's Closing Bell via telephone. "We look at the markets and look for no-brainers and I think Apple is just a no-brainer," said Icahn. Perhaps that's why he also said he bought "quite a bit" more of the company's stock today. He's not worried about the day-to-day on the stock, and he still thinks the products are great ó he just thinks Apple would benefit from a teensy weensy $150 million stock buyback. "There's a time in markets to borrow ... and when you can borrow at the rates Apple can borrow at ... when you borrow at 3-4% like Apple can borrow and buy $150 million worth of stock ... it's ridiculous to say Apple can't buy the stock." Icahn went on to say that he hears critics when they say Apple needs their cash pile to grow, but the bottom line is this ó when are they going to get these rates again? Not that he's telling Apple's C-suite what to do. "I've learned one thing: Don't micromanage," said Icahn. He clearly still has total faith in Tim Cook, whom he's shouted out to on Twitter a few times. Speaking of Twitter ó no, he told Maria Bartiromo, he hasn't talked to anyone about buying it.
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettApple was a major drag for the big stock market indexes. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Flickr / noahwesleyFollowing the successful passage of a constitutional amendment legalizing marijuana in Colorado last year, the cannabis industry is on track to be a fully legal state market by 2014. Until this change, marijuana businesses have spent years growing and expanding in an adverse environment. While legalization ‚Äî and the Federal government's recent decision to step back and not interfere through drug raids ‚Äî will remove some of those inhibiting effects, there's still a lot that is keeping entrepreneurs down.¬† Good news came this week when the Justice Department announced it was reviewing its policies on banking restrictions for marijuana companies, according to NBC. This, more so than almost any other federal action, will help the marijuana economy develop unimpeded. Let's take a look at how banking restrictions hurt the industry. The first thing that an onlooker must think, is something along the lines of, "Man, it must be really easy to sell people marijuana!" Mike Nudelman / BIIt's true, selling illegal drugs has oftentimes been a lucrative business historically. But the people behind the marijuana industry aren't drug dealers, they're entrepreneurs ‚Äî people who pay their taxes, give their employees health insurance, and have all the responsibilities of a standard business.¬† The issue is, though, as a result of federal law there are outstanding restrictions on the way the fastest-growing industry in Colorado can conduct its business. They get hit hard on taxes. They can't hold down a bank account, despite in many cases, being model businesses. And if you've ever wanted to endure the experience of being laughed out of a room, try going to your local bank to pursue a small business loan for your legal marijuana dispensary.¬† If you're a marijuana business, you probably won't be able to find a bank that is willing to hold your money. And if you do, they will probably eventually drop your accounts. Even ¬†worse, they may subsequently drop your personal accounts, retirement accounts, and any other sort of cash you have with their company.¬† This means a couple of things. First, you can't take credit cards or checks without a lot of difficulty. Second, you force your customers to carry cash, which puts them at risk of crime ‚Äî when everyone knows you're an all-cash business, you and your customers become targets. This gets difficult quickly.¬† Walter Hickey / BIRyan Cook, GM of The ClinicOn a recent trip to Colorado, I spoke to Ryan Cook, the General Manager of The Clinic, one of the largest dispensary chains in the state. Ryan explained that in order to pay his employees' health insurance, he would have to mail it in cash. To do this across state lines would be absurd. Even more, The Clinic sponsors an annual golf outing to raise money for the Multiple Sclerosis Society. This year the outing raised over $40,000. But just to show how absurd some of these banking restrictions are, Cook related how he had to drive a manila envelope full of cash to a very nice golf course just to pay for the day. The club employees were shocked and had no idea what to even do with that kind of cash.¬† Betty Aldworth is the Deputy Director of the National Cannabis Industry Association, the closest thing that the marijuana industry has to a lobby. We spoke to her in Denver.¬† "People have a very tough time accessing bank accounts," Aldworth said. "They are¬†unable to¬† accept credit cards, making it more dangerous for patients." KIM SIDWELL / CANNABIS CAMERABetty Aldworth, NCIAThe kinds of things the industry is asking for ‚Äî and what the DOJ has indicated they're willing to consider ‚Äî are fairly basic.¬† "We're not even talking about the business loans," said Aldworth. "Forget it. Nobody's expecting that. But boy, it would be nice to have a checking account." Part of the reason that the DOJ may consider making it easier for marijuana businesses to have bank accounts is that the state of Colorado really wants it.¬† "Regulators want us to start bank accounts as much as we want to have bank accounts," said Aldworth. "It's hard to do the accounting and the audits. It's much more difficult than need be." It's not actually preventing banks from taking on marijuana businesses as clients. It's just over-complicating, adding doubt, and removing clarity for marijuana business operations. "A couple of years ago, in their early days of this problem, everybody got kicked out of one bank and then¬† another bank would open up and would allow these accounts," said Aldworth. ¬†"Someone would say 'Oh, my bank such and such, my bank is allowing these accounts.' A large number accounts would migrate, but that would catch the attention of someone and then they would all get kicked out. So we have business owners that have been through eight, nine, ten bank accounts in three years." Basically, banks evaluate risk. Marijuana businesses may be slightly riskier clients, but that doesn't necessarily, preclude them access to resources in a bank's eyes. It's pressure from banking regulators and the Treasury that make banks want out of pot.¬† Denver ReliefKayvan Khalatbari, Denver ReliefWe saw this earlier this year when we first spoke with Kayvan Khalatbari, an owner of Denver Relief. "We just actually lost our bank account after four years of being with the company, BBVA Compass," he said in an interview with Business Insider. "They sent us a letter and told us we had thirty days to get the hell out, even though I have accounts with Denver Relief, Denver Relief Consulting, both my pizzerias, my investment company and my property company and my personal accounts. "As a result they‚Äôre probably going to lose around five to six million dollars in revenue a year."Moreover, the banking reluctance extends beyond people who deal directly with marijuana. It even impacts businesses like Canna Security America, a successful security firm that caters to the specific compliance needs of Colorado marijuana businesses.  Walter Hickey / BIDan Williams, CSACSA doesn't grow, touch, or sell pot. They handle security systems. This has made them attractive to investors, due to their degree of separation from a federally illegal business.  But even their tangential relationship with pot has made it difficult to find a bank, according to owner Dan Williams.¬† "Our banker kept seeing the obscene amount of money we were transacting," Williams said, "how we're doing well. 'We can get you $50 to $100 thousand bridge loan, a line of credit for equipment and things like that.' He kept asking us about it, and I didn't want to get it until we needed it." But when it came to the point when CSA actually wanted to take their banker up on his offer after a bout of expansion, things got difficult.  "Finally, we were about to move into the offices, hiring people, now let's ask for that line of credit they'd been saying they'd just give to us," he said. "We had everything ‚Äî every criteria for that line of credit perfectly: personal credit, three years of books showing profitability, every criteria they've asked for we met and exceeded." "We handed them this package and we get this phone call that says 'Unfortunately we decided not to give it you.'" he said. When they asked why, "In so many words, it was because, you know, we're associated with the cannabis industry itself." But for people handling marijuana themselves, with very little hope of getting consistent banking, Williams said that some of the steps they've had to take are absurd in the modern digital economy.¬† "I've heard of people hiring people to move $600,000 in cash before," he said.¬† This is why the murmurs from Justice are so encouraging. Modern businesses should be able to accept credit cards, or at least write a check. They shouldn't have to worry about carrying bundles of cash. They shouldn't have to fear for their customers' safety going in and out.¬† As we've seen, nearly everything about the way the marijuana industry has evolved in Colorado has been consummately professional. This is the exception, and nobody seems to want it to be like this besides Justice. A change from their interpretation could make a huge difference to this market.¬†
Man, this could be awesome. Or man this could totally stink. Either way, according to Entertainment Weekly, FX is working on an American Psycho sequel series. It's set to take place years after the movie was set. Patrick Bateman, the handsome but delusional Wall Street banker with no conscience whatsoever,¬† is 50 and he's taken on a new apprentice. We see no mention of Bret Easton Ellis' part in the production, but we're crossing our fingers that the writer has something to do with it. For now, here's the official logline via EW: In the new drama series, iconic serial killer Patrick Bateman, now in his mid-50‚Äôs but as outrageous and lethal as ever, takes on a prot√©g√© in a sadistic social experiment who will become every bit his equal ‚Äî a next generation American Psycho.‚Äù Like we said, crossing our fingers.
Flickr/Trebz"Lumber prices and the Homebuilding Stocks have a pretty high correlation for obvious reasons," said Miller Tabak's Jonathan Krinsky in May 15 note to clients. "They generally move higher together, and lower together, over longer periods of time." "When they start diverging, however, we should probably take notice." At the time, Krinsky warned that the ongoing sell-off in lumber prices was signalling trouble for homebuilders. Indeed, homebuilder stocks have tumbled since May since that prescient note. Today, Krinsky is out with a new note titled: "Flipping Bullish on Homebuilders." From his note (emphasis added): The S&amp;P 500 Homebuilders index happened to peak for the year on May 15th at 695.01, and declined 36% down to its August 15th low of 443.86. Meanwhile, lumber, which had peaked on February 19th at 400.80, declined 31% down to its May 30th low of 276.20. (chart below) What has peaked our interest of late, is that Lumber did not make a new low since May, even as the Homebuilders did. Just as the failure of Lumber in May to make a new HIGH created a ‚Äúbearish‚Äù divergence, the failure of Lumber to make a new LOW has recently created a ‚Äúbullish‚Äù divergence. Lumber has rallied some 20% off those May lows... Krinsky discusses other housing indicators in his note, and he warns "the charts of many of these homebuilder names are still far from healthy." "Even if the homebuilders are in a prolonged bear market, there appears to be an opportunity to play for a bear- market rally," he said. Miller Tabak
Wikimedia CommonsTarget-date funds have fast become the favored tool among retirement savers who have neither the expertise nor the inclination to manage their own account. Billed as "set it and forget it" investment options because they automatically adjust their asset mix as investors age, target-date funds held some $485 billion in total assets at year-end 2012 -- a fourfold increase over 2006, according to investment research firm Morningstar. Management consulting firm Casey, Quirk &amp; Associates in Darien, Conn., further estimates that target-date funds will represent nearly half of the projected $7.7 trillion in U.S. defined contribution assets by 2020. That includes payroll deductions that get funneled into 401(k), 403(b) and 457 plans. Yet, among investors, misconceptions abound over how these funds are structured, how often they rebalance, the level of risk involved, and the degree to which fees and equity allocations can differ among fund families. "Based on anecdotal feedback and the surveys we've seen, it's clear there's not great understanding about how varied these products can be," says Josh Charlson, a senior mutual fund analyst with Morningstar. A 2012 study for the Securities and Exchange Commission, for example, found just 36 percent of respondents correctly indicated a target-date fund does not provide guaranteed income in retirement. Another 30 percent of those who own such funds also believe the target date refers to the year in which the fund is at its most conservative mix of stocks and bonds. (The target date actually reflects the year in which an investor will retire, or stop purchasing shares of the fund.) As the Department of Labor proposes new disclosure rules for target-date funds that would provide plan participants with greater detail on how the fund's asset allocation will change over time and the point at which it will reach its most conservative position, Fred Reish, a benefits attorney with Drinker Biddle &amp; Reath in Los Angeles who specializes in fiduciary issues, says investors should pause to reflect on whether this popular "one-stop shop" retirement solution is right for them. "Target-date funds are a much more complex investment than ordinary mutual funds," he says. "There are a lot of moving parts." How they workIndeed, target retirement funds invest in stocks, bonds and alternative assets, typically in a collection of mutual funds overseen by a fund manager. That mix is automatically rebalanced over time based on the investor's projected year of retirement, or target date, becoming less focused on growth and more focused on income as the target date draws near. As with stocks and mutual funds, there is no guarantee of principal. More than 600 such funds exist in the U.S., according to Morningstar. While many funds share the same target date, their fees, asset mix and performance can vary dramatically, depending on the fund family that manages it. Fees, for example, are impacted greatly by the size of the plan -- larger plans benefit from economies of scale -- and whether a fund is actively or passively managed. Actively managed funds typically cost more. Brooks Herman, head of research for San Diego-based financial analytics firm BrightScope, notes the average annual expense ratio for target-date funds is 72 basis points, or less than 1 percent. In other words, for every $1,000 you invest in the fund, you'd pay $7.20 in fees annually. Actively managed funds, including those offered by AllianceBernstein and State Farm, are on the higher end of the expense ratio scale, where annual fees can top 1 percent of net asset value, says Herman. Following Vanguard's lead, TIAA-CREF and Fidelity have recently introduced target-date funds that invest exclusively in passively managed funds, which keeps their expense ratios lower at around 20 basis points, Herman says. BrightScope rates more than 55,000 401(k) and 403(b) plans on its website, enabling investors to plug in the name of their employer to produce a free "personal fees report," which breaks down how much they pay for their investments -- including target-date funds. Morningstar also rates 22 of the largest target-date funds with its gold, silver and bronze scoring system, which factors in the fund's performance, the caliber of its management and the quality of its portfolio. 'To' versus 'through' fundsThe asset allocation -- and thus risk level -- of target-date funds is dictated largely by whether the manager uses a "to or through" glide path, says Charlson. A glide path refers to the formula used to adjust the mix of stocks, bonds and cash in relation to the target date. Some target retirement funds seek to become most conservative right at the point of retirement -- or "to" the target date. These include funds offered by Wells Fargo Advantage, Russell LifePoints and PIMCO Real Retirement, he says. As such, they increase their exposure to cash and bonds earlier in their glide path as they move into capital-preservation mode. Others, such as those managed by T. Rowe Price and AllianceBernstein, have among the most aggressive glide paths in the industry, maintaining greater exposure to equities past the point of retirement to combat inflation and longevity risks, says Charlson. These are known as "through" funds. At the target date, says Charlson, the equity allocation in such funds might remain at 60 percent or more, compared to a Wells Fargo fund, which would have winnowed down its stock exposure to less than 30 percent. Those who wish, or need, to go for growth during retirement would be best served in a fund that uses a "through" glide path, says Charlson, while more conservative investors and those with significant personal savings outside their target-date fund might instead opt for a "to" fund that focuses on wealth preservation. Target-date fund drawbacksInvestors can purchase target-date funds independently through retail brokers, but the overwhelming majority invests in these products through their 401(k) plans at work. That's largely because these funds are deemed qualified default options for plans that automatically enroll their employees. As such, employees who don't actively select their fund options will have a fund chosen for them by their employer. That's all the more reason to perform your own due diligence, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. Indeed, the convenience of putting your savings on autopilot comes with some pretty big potential drawbacks. Differing opinions. Your opinion, for example, may differ from the fund manager's over what constitutes an "appropriate" asset allocation and what asset classes belong in the fund to begin with, says Nevin Adams, co-director for the EBRI Center for Research on Retirement Income. Differing risk tolerance. Others might argue that investors are not well served by an "all inclusive" mix that disregards an individual's risk tolerance. "There were a lot of investors who were surprised in 2008 to discover that target-date funds could be more aggressive than they had anticipated," says Adams. That year, the average 2010 target-date fund lost 23 percent, according to Morningstar. Target-date funds can be convenient for retirement savers who seek to build wealth without the hassle of having to select their own investments. Despite their popularity, however, they're not all things to all investors. Before buying in, find out whether the fund you're considering uses a to-or-through glide path, what you'll pay in fees and whether the asset allocation selected will help you meet your long-term financial needs. "You have to know what your expectations for that money are, and understand what you're putting on the table," says Adams.
Flickr/John SpadeAs human beings, our brains are booby-trapped with psychological barriers that stand between making smart financial decisions and making dumb ones. The good news is that once you realize your own mental weaknesses, it's not impossible to overcome them.¬†
Dr. Ed's BlogIt‚Äôs Fashion Week in New York City. It also seems to be fashion week in the stock market, with the bulls strutting down the catwalk while the bears are no-shows. Actually, investment styles have been changing rapidly all year. Consider the following: (1) Dividend-yielding stocks. During the winter season, dividend-yielding stocks were the rage. They fell out of favor during the summer as bond yields soared. For example, S&amp;P 500 Utilities were up by 18.4% ytd on April 30. Now they are up 6.1%. (However, S&amp;P 400 Utilities are still up 16.8% ytd.) S&amp;P 500 Telecom Services is up only 2.7%, well below the peak ytd gain of 15.6% on April 23. (2) Interest-rate-sensitive stocks. Homebuilding and other interest-rate-sensitive stocks were also sold along with bonds during the summer. S&amp;P 500 Homebuilding is down 29.6% since May 14, and down 9.6% ytd. However, Household Appliances and Home Improvement Retail are still up solidly so far with gains of 34.6% and 24.2%. While investors are worrying that rising mortgage rates may slow home sales, they must expect that owners of existing homes will spend plenty of money on remodeling. Dr. Ed's Blog¬† Today's Morning Briefing: Go Global? (1) In and out of fashion. (2) Dividend yielders are out. (3) Retailers are pricey. (4) European shares have upside in revenues, margins, and P/Es. (5) Crises in some EMs turn into buying opportunities. (6) Some upbeat data made in China. (7) Commodity prices still flat-lining. (8) Energy and Materials likely to remain underperformers. (9) Global warming for investors. (10) Downgrading Consumer Discretionary to market weight. (11) Upgrading IT and Health Care to overweights. (More for subscribers.)
Treasuries are surging following a well-supported government auction of $21 billion of 10-year notes at 1 PM ET. The auction "stopped through," meaning the highest yield of bonds issued in the auction (2.946%) was below the "when-issued" yield heading into the auction (2.970%). The bid-to-cover ratio ‚Äì the dollar amount of bids for the bonds versus the actual dollar amount issued ‚Äì was 2.86, a sharp increase from 2.45 in the government's previous auction of 10-year notes. Earlier today, Verizon priced the largest corporate bond offering ever, selling $49 billion in debt to help finance its recent acquisition of Vodafone's wireless assets. Traders say market participants engaged in "rate locking," which involves shorting Treasuries to hedge against a rise in rates that could adversely affect the pricing of the Verizon deal. An unwind of that short-Treasuries trade could be responsible for the big lift from today's 10-year auction, as a few traders on suggest on Twitter. Looks like a rate unlock into the auction. It comes 2bps thru strong 10yr auction...comes thru 1.6 bps (all those peeps who sold into the VZ deal pricing scrambling to cover) The chart below shows the move in 10-year Treasury futures post-auction. Thinkorswim
As Wall Street's unofficial historian, Art Cashin's daily comments document the spirit of those trading the market in New York City. When markets closed after 9/11, that spirit was badly battered. But like the city itself, the traders got up when it was time to reopen. They went to work, they made their trades, and they avoided looking to the sky. Today in Cashin's daily note, he included an excerpt from his first comments after markets opened in New York City on September 24th, 2011. Think of them as a time capsule, and read them below: On this day, in September of the fateful year 2001, America ñ and the world ñ continued to try to find some way to return to normal. There have been no comments since the atrocity on 9-11. All of our family and staff are safe, thank God. But my office was put out of commission. (It was across a small open park from one of the towers.) We hope to get back into it this week and ñ maybe ñ begin regular comments next week. A Few Personal Comments ñ A few years back the "New Yorker" magazine ran a whimsical cover showing how ìegotisticalî New Yorkers might conceive a map of the United States. Satirically it depicted the nation, with three-quarters of its focus on the island of Manhattan. Ironically, after the atrocity on September 11th, the nationís heart, its concern, its generosity is disproportionately focused on New York in almost the same manner. Similarly, in each of our lives, the picture we view of the world around us would surely have had us as the dominant feature of the canvas. Yet after the tragedy of that Tuesday, with its image of victims and heroes, of smoke and tears; none of us shall see ourselves so large again. There will be room in that picture for others ñ many others. Valuing language and the words that give it shape, meaning and impact, I have always been fascinated by that special group who once wrote for the aforementioned "New Yorker" ñ James Thurber, Dorothy Parker, Robert Benchley, Alexander Woolcott and E.B. White and others. In simpler times (how foolish! Almost any time was simpler, safer, more secure)...let me start again.....my love for the writers that Harold Ross brought to the Golden Age of the New Yorker (and thus to the legendary "Algonquin Table") was to the comedic/satiric group. The events of 9-11 led me back to E.B. White. He was terrific, but given my satiric leaning I only loved or, at least remember three things about White ñ his marvelous book on writing style, his caption for a legendary New Yorker cartoon in which an obstinate kid, responding to his mom's explanation that what's on his plate is "broccoli, dear" says ñ "I say it's spinach and I say ñ the hell with it!", and ñ of course ñ his short story called "The Hour of Letdown" in which a computer built to play chess against a human, stops after the event to have a drink. (I'm not sure why I love that story.) Nonetheless, the atrocity on September 11th recalled another E.B. White essay. It was (I recall) written over 50 years ago, back when the UN was moving into Manhattan from its early life in "Lake Success" on Long Island. Much of White's essay, written over a half century ago is filled with meaning and moment this day. It has recently been republished as "Here is New York", if you care to see more. Here are some of the things that bridge generations: "The subtlest change in New York is something people don't much speak about that is in everyone's mind. The city, for the first time in its long history is destructible. A single flight of planes no bigger than a wedge of geese can quickly end this island fantasy, burn the towers, crumble the bridges, turn the underground passages into lethal chambers, cremate the millions. The intimation of mortality is part of New York now; in the sound of jets overhead, in the black headlines of the latest edition." "All dwellers in cities must live with the stubborn fact of annihilation; in New York the fact is more concentrated because of the concentration of the city itself, and because, of all targets, New York has a certain clear priority. In the mind of whatever perverted dreamer might loose the lightning, New York must hold a steady, irresistible charm." "....New York is not a capital city ñ it is not a national capital or a state capital. But it is by way of becoming the capital of the world...." "....Once again the city will absorb, almost without showing any sign of it, a congress of visitors. It has already shown itself capable of stashing away the United Nations ñ a great many of the delegates have been around town during the past couple of years..." "This race ñ the race between the destroying planes and the struggling Parliament of Man ñ it sticks in all our heads." "The city at last perfectly illustrates both the universal dilemma and the general solution, this riddle in steel and stone that is at once the perfect target and the perfect demonstration of nonviolence, of racial brotherhood, this lofty target, scraping the skies and meeting the destroying planes halfway, home of all people and all nations. Capital of everything, housing those deliberations by which the planes were to be stayed and their errand forestalled." Thank you, Mr. White! (Mr. White earlier in the essay noted that New York and New Yorkers ñ and all Americans ñ do good, do what they do, and have traditionally defied logic and their enemies by not only surviving but actually thriving. And all that was true even a half century ago.) A More Personal Thought ñ Many of us got out that Tuesday walking through streets onto which ash, smoke and business envelopes fell snow-like, blocking both your view and your breathing. Yet when a stranger was met, they were invited to join the convoy and offered a spare wet cloth (carried in pockets) through which to breath as they walked. When we reached the East River (Brooklyn side of Manhattan), there was a volunteer group of tugboats, fishing boats and mini-ferries that looked like the evacuation of Dunkirk. No charge. No money. Just ñ "May I help you!" No one got anyone's name. No thank you cards will be sent. But Americans ñ even New York Americans ñ who freely give to strangers but argue with neighbors were suddenly one group. In the days since, as we wander via new strange ways back to Wall Street, we all internalize the survivorís quandary. We are lucky to be alive ñ but why us. As I noted on TV ñ none of us headed back to re-open the markets with relish or avarice. The President, the Governor, the Mayor and all officials asked that the markets re-open to provide a means for the economy to work ñ to unclog an artery. Day after day, traders, clerks and the thousands of folks who support them walked to work. No spring in their step. Resolute to do their job, they are civil but somber. As they pass checkpoints, they say "thank you" to the policemen, firemen, and National Guardsmen who may have lost brothers saving us and some of our friends. Ironically, the only smiles you see in Wall Street are on the photocopied photos of the missing that family and friends have taped to walls, mailboxes and lampposts. It may take a long time for smiles to naturally return to Wall Street. It may take a long while to find those criminals who took our smiles and our friends. But, we will have patience. As our President said ñ "We will not tire. We will not falter. We will not fail!"
Business Insider sourceAlma Morales Riojas, the president of MANA, a national Latina advocacy organization, wrote a strongly worded letter to the Federal Trade Commission asking them to investigate Herbalife. (via FT Alphaville) In the MANA letter, Riojas says that Herbalife uses a "deceptive claim" by making "unattainable promises of wealth and success." What's more is she writes that she has witnessed this firsthand.¬† "On a personal level, I believe they prey on our most vulnerable, and I have seen some of my own friends in my home state of Texas fall victim to these terrible practices." There's no mention of "pyramid scheme" in the letter, though.¬† Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products, is the company that has been at the center of a heated hedge fund war. Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, publicly declared in December that he's shorting $1 billion worth of the stock because he believes Herbalife is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income people, especially from the Hispanic population. A number of hedge fund managers, including his arch nemesis Carl Icahn, have piled on by going massively long the stock. Icahn thinks Ackman will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes."¬† Still, Ackman has stood by his thesis. ¬†He thinks regulators, particularly the FTC, will be persuaded to investigate the company.¬† Here's the letter (emphasis ours):¬† Dear Chairwoman Ramirez, The principle mission of MANA ‚Äì A Latina Organization, is to support and empower Latinas through leadership development, community service and advocacy. MANA‚Äôs membership is wide ranging from young up- and- coming middle school Latinas who want to make a difference to 70 year old- plus ‚Äúabuelitas‚Äù who have advocated for their communities their whole lives.Together, we have proudly served the Latino community for almost forty years, providing and expanding access to educational, health, and leadership opportunities. As our economy continues to experience steady but slow progress, we understand first hand our community‚Äôs desire to seek out reliable, alternative ways to supplement their incomes.¬†Furthermore, as a woman of color and the past national executive director of Federally Employed¬†Women, Inc., a nonprofit working to improve the status of women employed by the Federal¬†government, I am well aware of the punishing wage gap that many Latinas in this country face.¬†These wage gaps can cost Latinas critical income annually that could be better used to help meet¬†their families‚Äô daily fundamental needs. This is why I write today, to urge the Commission to¬†conduct a full investigation of the multi-level marketing company Herbalife and their deceptive¬†business practices and abuses. Herbalife is very popular among Latinas throughout the U.S. and throughout Latin America, and has historically won distributors over with the guarantee of an exciting business opportunity, by making unattainable promises of wealth and success. Herbalife claims it is both a product company and a business opportunity, but clearly this is a deceptive claim since the majority of Herbalife distributors make little or no income. According to Herbalife‚Äôs own 2012 data, 88 percent of their participants received no payments from the company at all. I firmly believe this company benefits mainly from its far reaching network of hierarchically organized independent sales people, who recruit others and in turn make a profit off of them. On a personal level, I believe they prey on our most vulnerable, and I have seen some of my own friends in my home state of Texas fall victim to these terrible practices.  As a community, Latinas are always looking for ways to advance, get ahead, support our families and achieve our own piece of the American dream. There have been far too many troubling claims about Herbalife this year and with more conflicting issues continuing to come up, we strongly encourage the Commission to carry out a full investigation and thoroughly examine this company‚Äôs practices as soon as possible. An investigation like this will serve an educational tool for many of our organization‚Äôs members and their families who may have fallen prey to these schemes in the past. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Alma Morales Riojas President and CEOMANA, A National Latina Organization
REUTERS/ Robert GalbraithJanet Yellen, vice chair of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve SystemPundits and prognosticators have been launching open-letters, tweets, and missives on who should be the next chairman of the Federal Reserve when Ben Bernanke's term expires in January, infusing drama into a monetary body that is supposed to be apolitical.† The conventional wisdom, for now at least, is that Larry Summers will receive the nomination. The betting site Paddy Power has him at the best odds†ó 2/5. People also seem to think President Obama will have a tough time getting Summers through the nomination process, particularly if he expends his political capital with liberals by†whipping up a vote on Syria. But let's say President Obama does tap Summers and the Senate confirmation drags on†ó as Senate confirmations often do†ó through†the end of Chairman Bernanke's term.†Politico's Kate Davidson†answers the question: Though a handful of former Fed chairmen have continued to lead the central bank beyond their terms, the Federal Reserve Act stipulates that, in the absence of the chairman, the vice chairman will take over ó in this case thatís Yellen. So Janet Yellen, who many suspected would succeed Bernanke until the White House began floating Summers' name, could lawfully take the central bank's helm as her opponent's confirmation drags on. Weird. Read the full report at Politico ª
On 9/11/2001 it was contained chaos in New York. Planes were not allowed in or out of the city for some time, so in essence, New Yorkers were left alone with the wreckage of the most tragic attack in American history. Fortunately there were many Americans from all over the country that weren't going to stand for that. One of them was John Corr, a Pennsylvania wine dealer who drove up to the city to volunteer at Ground Zero on September 14th. He kept a journal of everything he saw, and one of the most interesting entries is about some of the dauntless citizen volunteers he met while he was there working for ten days. Corr was kind enough to share his writing with Business Insider, so you can read his thoughts on the people he encountered below: There was the husband and wife team that left the Midwest even before the second plane hit and immediately set up their own clothing supply depot in the American Express building on West St (before it was even declared safe). When I first saw them there were long lines of fire fighters waiting to be fitted with Carharts and work boots from them. In the search and rescue on the pile with the hot sun and even hotter steel environments, the heavy coats and boots that the firefighters normally wore were not appropriate gear. And since many of the fireman refused to leave or break off the search, they needed the change of clothes right then and there. I can‚Äôt imagine how many fireman that husband and wife team outfitted in the first important days of the emergency. And they did it all with cell phone calls to outside donors and a 24/7 hustling service. There were coal miners from Kentucky that I met on Saturday the 15th. They were very young men whose expertise was setting support posts and props in the many holes and caverns in the treacherous and constantly shifting pile of steel and iron. They were filthy, tired and a bit overwhelmed when I ran into them at the cafeteria at Public School 236. There were construction workers and iron workers who were some of the first to show up and filled the ranks of the bucket brigades. There were brigades of police cadets who came to work the bucket brigades. They came with just their uniforms and nothing else. We would spend hours outfitting them with helmets, masks, goggles and gloves as the work and safety regulations demanded it. Their appearance changed considerably upon their exit from GZ. There were the legions of Hispanic works sent in to clean up the buildings surrounding GZ. Like the police cadets, they were totally without equipment (except for cleaning equipment) and it was downright criminal to send them into the toxic environment without helmets, masks etc. Many workers would exchange clothing upon exiting GZ. They didn‚Äôt want to bring contaminated clothing home with them. There were Red Cross workers from all over the U.S. and the world and many physicians, nurses and hospital personnel. There were the ubiquitous Salvation Army with their encouraging smiles and amazingly delicious mobile food stations. There was a building demolition expert from North Carolina who sneaked into GZ and stayed for almost 4 months, becoming the volunteer expert-consultant on picking apart the tangled pile of steel safely and efficiently. ‚Ä¶And the above list is woefully inadequate in describing the thousands of people who made their mark on Ground Zero.
REUTERS/Jason LeeA woman drinks a cup of Starbucks coffee as she leaves a store at Qianmen Commercial Street in central Beijing, April 19, 2012. Starbucks Corp wants to make its mainland China expansion a family affair. The world's biggest coffee chain is opening cafes in China at a rate of one every four days in its quest to expand from about 570 shops today to more than 1,500 by 2015. It's becoming increasingly common for upper-middle class Chinese millennials to study abroad in the U.S. At nearly 200,000 undergrads, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education, they're blowing away the rest of the world in packing American universities. ¬† And if and when they return to China, they're bringing America back with them. We spoke with two young professional Chinese, Alice Zhang and Jun Chu, both in their 20s, to talk about how American habits are beginning to infiltrate the upper end of Chinese youth culture. Here's what they told us:¬† Jun: "A huge and still growing coffee culture. Chinese people loved tea and we consumed a lot of tea. Now the younger generations are hooked on coffee! There are Starbucks everywhere (and boy are they expensive! A grande latte is 33 kuai I believe, which translates to 5 bucks!) that might be cheap for Americans - or not - but average Chinese pay is still at developing-world standards. Jun: "Traditionally we want girls to have fair skin, as pale as possible, and as skinny and fragile as possible. Now there are actually women who prefer to look tanned, to have some lean muscles. There's a Chinese term for this kind of beauties - ÁæéÈªë (pronounced as meihei, or dark beauty)."¬† Jun: "I work in an American firm with American bosses. I also work at a public affairs consultancy so it is a fast-paced industry/office-- so I may be biased. I've heard in state-owned enterprises people are still very conservative, group-thinkers, and slow. But my Chinese colleagues are not afraid of expressing themselves, they are more independent thinkers. Instead of shying away, they know the work place (and our generation) is more competitive and they need to be more aggressive and speak up. Note that 90% of my colleagues have overseas education experience or have worked in foreign companies before. So I consider it a western influence." Alice: "Shopping in Ikea with DIY concept, and buying organic food in high end supermarket or getting them from specialized stores. People who studied abroad before sort of bring back or keep these lifestyle they had when they were abroad." Alice: "Emphasis on more on fair and transparent working environment. The promotion standards are more transparent these days. Care more for the long term career development. A relatively clear career path is usually laid out when firms try to recruit people." Alice: "‚Ä¶Esp. among young working population. They'll go to exotic places like Nepal for backpacking hiking, or snorkeling in Malaysia islands.¬†It was very rare in the past. For my parents' generation, they didn't travel that much. And even they did, it was very typical sightseeing and photo taking type." "Traditional Chinese go get dim sum on the weekend, now I see a brunch culture...brunch is more popular among the yuppy urban¬†Chinese. It's not that ridiculous as it is in NYC. I think it is quite expensive for the Chinese standard. Typically $20.00. But again, I am talking about a small yuppy hipster Chinese. A lot of ordinary Chinese people don't do brunch still.... One does see long lines outside certain places."
California is home to not only the largest photovoltaic installation in the world, but also the largest solar thermal. And the latter is almost finished, and now you can take a Virtual Tour. When completed, the Ivanpah solar thermal facility will generate 377 megawatts to power 140,000 homes.¬† Here's a sampling of the tremendous images, but you should really spend a minute there yourself. Ivanpah Ivanpah Ivanpah Ivanpah Also the aerial view from Google Earth of the site (located in California just a few miles southwest of Vegas) is insane: Google Earth Click here to take the full tour ¬ª (Spotted by Gizmodo.)
YouTubeLegendary hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller was on Bloomberg TV moments ago talking about the market. Druckenmiller, the founder of Duquesne Capital (now a family office hedge fund), is usually press shy. †He made the TV appearance to talk about the issue of generational theft that he's been highlighting for the past several months.† As for the markets, the former portfolio manager for George Soros' Quantum Fund says that he's "lost."† Druckenmiller told Bloomberg TV that he's sitting and waiting citing the decision for the next Fed Chairman, QE and Syria. †He noted that the next Fed Chair matters.† "I like to be patient and then go a little crazy. I just don't see anything right now," he said. †† Druckenmiller said he had a few big decisions earlier this year, but has pared those back. †He said he's long some Japanese equities and short some Yen. †He said he doesn't have any big positions right now.† "Ok, so my guess is, and I believe the market is topping. The stock market predicted seven out of the last three recessions; I predicted seven out of the last three bear markets. I started in a bear market, so I have a bearish bias. Where I am on the market is if you gave me a stock I really like, I will buy it. If you give me a stock I really hate, Iíll short it. In terms of having some big position, long or short idea, or some exposure to the stock market right now, I am lost. I donít play when I am lost. I know in the future I wonít be lost," he told Bloomberg TV.†
After spending most of the morning in the red, the stock market has just gone positive. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading at 1686, up 0.1% on the day. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, meanwhile, is trading up 0.6%, or around 90 points, near 15,280. Apple has been weighing on the market. Shares of the consumer tech giant are down 5.8% after a lackluster iPhone launch yesterday. Meanwhile, the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is about one basis point lower from yesterday's close, trading near 2.96%. There were no major economic data releases in the U.S. today. The chart below shows the rally in S&amp;P 500 futures that started around 10:30 AM ET. Thinkorswim
Twitter.com/CFCharityDayToday is Cantor Fitzgerald's and BGC Partners' annual charity day, an event that†commemorates the 658 Cantor employees lost in September 11 terrorist attacks by donating the trading day's revenues to forty different charities.† During 9/11,†Cantor Fitzgerald occupied the 101st to the 105th floors†of†One World Trade Center. Cantor lost more people than any other company that day. † At the event today, actors, models, beauty queens and sports stars will be taking over the trading floor to help raise money. Diddy is down at BGC's trading floor right now.† Since the inception of this annual event, Cantor has been able to raise over $89 million for charity. We've included photos in the slides that follow. †Feel free to email your shots to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.†
7:17 am EST - September 11, 2013 By Enis   Of course, the composition of the index today is much different than 13 years ago. ¬†What&#8217;s driving this year&#8217;s performance? ¬†The best performers in 2013 are the well known high fliers: These stories have for the most part been well documented. ¬†What&#8217;s interesting is that there are many names in the next 10 that are hardly mentioned or followed: In fact, most of the large cap tech names that dominate the S&amp;P top 100 (AAPL, MSFT, GOOG, INTC, ORCL, QCOM, CSCO, AMZN, EBAY, etc.) are not anywhere close to leading tech winners in 2013. ¬†The best performing sector in the Nasdaq 100 (and really, in the entire market) has been the biotech sector, with VRTX, CELG, GILD, REGN, and BIIB all making the top 15 list for the index. Simply saying that technology is leading this market then is mistaking the evidence. ¬†The Nasdaq 100 is up about 20% on the year, but many of the largest technology stocks have actually been a drag on the index. ¬†The XLK ETF, while impacted by its 15% weight to AAPL, is still illustrative of the weakness in large cap tech despite the strength of the Nasdaq names. ¬†Here is the XLK / SPY ratio since the start of the bull market: Among large caps, technology has been a loser. ¬†But as long as you&#8217;re not one of the large cap losers, this passing of the baton is a story of rejuvenation and renewal. ¬†The best performing stocks in the Nasdaq 100 are generally pioneers in their space (with the exception of MU, for which I&#8217;m open to opinions on its strength in 2013, since it looks like grossly misplaced optimism to me). ¬†It&#8217;s part and parcel of the creative destruction that business professors love to preach. As we head into the final few months of 2013, I will be watching the performance of these leaders to get a sense of how portfolio managers are shifting their funds in anticipation of a clean slate for 2014. ¬†The trend in September has so far been to continue to push the winners. ¬†But the Nasdaq&#8217;s strength today largely rests on the shoulders of unsung heroes rather than the bread and butter tech stocks of days gone by. 			¬† 			Follow me on Twitter: @EnisTaner 			Email Me
MarketWatch bond reporter Ben Eisen points out that the Verizon bond deal ‚Äì the largest corporate bond offering ever, at $49 billion ‚Äì is bigger than the entire economy of Luxembourg¬†(which sports a GDP of $42 billion, according to the IMF). To put the offering further into perspective, here are a few other economies smaller than the size of the Verizon deal, which prices today: Read more about the deal at MarketWatch ¬ª
Five years ago, the The U.S. economy got slammed by the financial crisis. "In the span of a few weeks, many of our nation's largest financial institutions failed or were forced to merge to avoid insolvency," wrote the Treasury Department's Anthony Reyes. "Capital markets ‚Äî essential for helping families and businesses meet their everyday financing needs ‚Äî were freezing up, dramatically reducing the availability of credit, such as student, auto, and small business loans." The Treasury Department just published a presentation looking back at the financial crisis and the progress since then. It included this annotated chart of the S&amp;P 500 and consumer sentiment during the period. Treasury Department
Affordability, confidence, and demographic factors determine whether that household rents or buys. We have a great demand model that estimates that demand by price and rent range. Consider the following: John Burns Real Estate ConsultingIt is important to note that in most markets elevated E/P ratios are primarily the result of historically low housing supply, rather than strong job growth. Price appreciation will be even more closely tied to job creation as new supply comes online and mortgage rates continue to rise to more historic norms.
Getty Images / Mike StobeIn two high-profile elections on opposite sides of the country on Tuesday, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg was a big loser. The first came in his backyard of New York, where Democratic voters are on the verge of making Bill de Blasio their nominee for mayor. Bloomberg, as he revealed last weekend, is not a big fan of de Blasio, a candidate who has made a winning campaign out of tarnishing Bloomberg's legacy.¬†City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, Bloomberg's preferred choice, finished a distant third. But perhaps the bigger loss for Bloomberg came in Colorado, where two Democratic state lawmakers were recalled after backing stricter gun laws in the wake of two mass shootings last year in Aurora, Colo., and Newtown, Conn. The NRA headlined its press release celebrating the recall elections, "Michael Bloomberg Suffers Resounding Defeat." "It was a really bad night for Michael Bloomberg," said Greg Valliere, the chief political strategist at Potomac Research, in a note Wednesday morning.  "His money made no difference in Colorado, where voters ousted two proponents of gun control ‚Äî a chilling message that Sandy Hook had no real impact on this debate. In New York City, the dismal showing by Christine Quinn was a reflection of Bloomberg fatigue by voters." It was a rare night in which both left and right united in victory in the face of a common enemy ‚Äî Bloomberg. On the right, gun-rights advocates delivered a brutal hit to Bloomberg's Mayors Against Illegal Guns. Angela Giron, one of the state senators who was recalled, told the New Republic last month that if even one seat was lost, MAIG "might as well fold it up." Bloomberg himself donated $350,000 to help the senators in question. If nothing else, the results will likely lead to major pause from state legislators looking to tackle gun-control issues, especially in purple states. And on the left, de Blasio clearly made his campaign a referendum on growing dissatisfaction with Bloomberg, especially among city Democrats. Look no further than the campaign's star television ad ‚Äî in which de Blasio's 15-year-old son, Dante, tells voters that his father will be the "only Democrat with the guts to really break from the Bloomberg years."
REUTERS/Mike BlakeFederal employment has been steadily dropping for several months, but a new note from Goldman Sachs economist Jan Hatzius suggests effects of the sequester have now cropped up other economic indicators. "The first area where sequestration has shown up fairly clearly in the data is personal income, which registered a disappointing 0.1% monthly gain in July, due in part to a 0.5% decline in government wages and salaries," Hatzius wrote to clients. "The decline was likely mainly due to defense furloughs, which started¬†July 8. Absent the July furloughs, which according to the BEA reduced annualized wages by $7.7bn that month, personal income growth would have just barely been rounded up to 0.2%." "We expect a similar negative effect in August, with a reversal of the entire effect in September" as furloughs subside. Hatzius writes that many federal agencies haven't really adhered to hiring freezes in the hopes that the federal government would end up ditching the sequester. If it continues, federal job losses could become more pronounced. "We assume that Congress will not reverse sequestration, and the federal spending level that we project as a result is consistent with year-on-year declines in federal employment of around 100k over the next few quarters, with smaller declines thereafter," he writes. But in terms of the broader economy,¬†"While it seems likely to us that there have been at least some indirect effects of federal spending restraint on the labor market, the effects remain concentrated in federal employment itself and in some industries with significant exposure to government spending," Hatzius concludes.
The reason Cantor Fitzgerald's chief executive Howard Lutnick didn't perish during the September 11th terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center is because of his son. That Tuesday morning happened to be the day his five-year-old son Kyle started kindergarten.¬† He and his wife both wanted to take him to his first day at Horace Mann School. Lutnick was in his son's classroom when he first heard news of the attacks that would forever change his life and his firm. Cantor Fitzgerald occupied the 101st to the 105th floors of One World Trade Center ‚Äî just above the impact zone of the hijacked plane. Cantor Fitzgerald suffered the greatest loss of life of any company that day. ¬†The financial firm lost 658 of its 960 employees, almost two-thirds of its workforce.¬† What's even more heartbreaking, Cantor Fitzgerald had a policy of hiring relatives, so those who lost someone at the firm likely lost more than one loved one. ¬† Lutnick lost his brother.¬† Because the attacks had devastated Cantor Fitzgerald so badly, the firm was not expected to survive.¬† Remarkably, within a week the firm managed to get its trading back online.¬† And Lutnick made a commitment to keep Cantor Fitzgerald going, despite the odds and the difficult choices that had to be made. Lutnick made the controversial decision to cut off the paychecks to employees who were killed.¬† Instead he gave the victims' families 25% of the firm's profits for five years, and 10 years of health insurance.¬† Cantor Fitzgerald certainly suffered a tremendous loss, but it might also be one of the greatest comeback stories on Wall Street.¬† Today, Cantor Fitzgerald operates in its Midtown offices at 499 Park Avenue.¬† The new offices are located on the second floor, hundreds of floors below the firm's position in the World Trade Center. You can watch one of Lutnick's heartbreaking interviews right after the attacks below:¬† See the other firms that lost people ¬ª 
John CorrIt wasn't enough for John Corr to sit at home and watch images of the 9/11 on his television screen in Pennsylvania, so he drove to New York City to volunteer to help clean-up. He was there by Friday, September 14th. Corr kept a diary of what he saw during his time at Ground Zero, and was kind enough to share them with Business Insider. Here's what he saw on day one, emphasis ours: My very first impression of NYC on early Friday morning September 14th was of the hundreds of ambulances lining the West Side Highway on my drive downtown. Sadly, these crews would never have the opportunity to help someone as there were few survivors found after the first 48 hours. Arriving at the Canal St barricade on a rainy and gloomy Friday morning, I was directed to the Jacob Javits Center uptown at 34th St. I stopped there briefly. The scene was wild and chaotic. A bus parking lot had been turned into a staging center/supply depot and their was a giant throng of helmeted construction workers, muscles bulging and testosterone pumping, waiting to be cleared for entry into GZ for duty on the ìbucket brigadesî. They were amped, boisterous and dying to get on with it. Along the sidewalks were dozens of food trucks/food stands from restaurants all around town passing out hot meals to cops, volunteers and passersby alike. In the sky above, a fighter jet flew in circles. An NYPD official dissuaded me from this scene and directed me again to the Red Cross Center further uptown at 66th and Amsterdam. It was here that I found purpose. The Red Cross was outfitting ERVs (Emergency Response Vehicles) to GZ and the next fleet would be leaving at 6 a.m. the next morning. Waking at 5 a.m. I was greeted in the basement garage staging area by a chaotic scene. A small crew of blood-shot eyed college age volunteers were trying to assign crews to the Red Cross ERVs. The problem was that in their exhausted state (this was the 94th hour since the attacks) they were having trouble organizing and sorting through the clamoring crowd of a hundred or more. People seemed confused and frustrated with the procedures. Working my way to the front of the crowd, I asked a tired young man with the clipboard exactly what he needed. He explained that each ERV crew needed 4 people: 1 senior Red Cross worker, 1 certified Red Cross driver and 2 assistants. That was all. I retreated to the back of the crowd, grabbed a box to stand on and announced what I was looking for. Three men came forward. The first, a man in his mid 60s (I forget his name) was a certified RC driver from West Virginia. The senior Red Cross person was Willard Dreisbach from upstate New York and Rod Richardson, a glass sculptor from Manhattan, rounded out the necessary four. We pushed our way back to the front, presented ourselves as the team and were handed the keys to an ERV and a checklist of supplies to load and drive to Public School #234 at Greenwich &amp; Chambers in lower Manhattan, just a couple of blocks from the Trade Towers. Rod later wrote an insightful and accurate account of volunteer activities at Ground Zero for a local NY magazine... The school yard was a supply depot, their cafeteria became a 24/7 feeding center and their hallways lined with clothing bins. The upper floors were used as sleeping areas. In the gym was an impromptu medical clinic. There was so much GZ dust settling day after day on that school, I donít know how they ever decontaminated it. In the school yard, you could brush the dust off a box and in a few hours the box would be covered again. The dust was a grayish yellow color and was blowing in a steady stream in a north by northeast direction straight up Broadway and streets parallel. Everyone was concerned about it and the poor people who lived in the neighborhood had it blowing their way for weeks (months). In this ìlead, follow or get out of the wayî environment, the person somewhat in charge of the school was a young man who took it upon himself to use the abandoned school as a rendezvous spot and supply dump-off. He was there since the beginning and was the ìgo toî guy. However, he was fading fast when we arrived and within a few days he was removed by the NYPD who demanded he go home and rest. I never saw him again after that. Things like that were common at GZ. We arrived at PS 234 just as the National Guard was putting up a cyclone fence around GZ and a two block outside perimeter. Greenwich &amp; Chambers was a main gate for GZ and there was much activity and traffic through there 24 hours a day. GZ was a round the clock effort without let up. Our first duty was to set up a Red Cross feeding station at the school. The RC delivered breakfast, lunch and dinner from their mobile kitchen uptown. Hour by hour, supplies were dumped off at the school necessitating a non-stop need to organize and distribute throughout GZ. Many of these supplies were coming from private sources who would hear through the grapevine what was needed. Speed and urgency had far outpaced official sources for timely delivery of supplies. (see Rodís article) Items pouring into the school were: metal cutting saw blades, portable generators and tool chargers with channel strips, Rebar cutting tools, fuel and fuel cans for the generators, truck loads of hard hats (to be assembled), flashlights (especially small, thin ones that could be duct taped to firefighters helmets ñ thus freeing their hands), AA batteries (couldnít keep these in stock), misc batteries, duct tape, knee pads, work gloves (constantly discarded), anti bacterial waterless soap, anti bacterial wipes, eye wash, (there were eye wash stations along the school sidewalk ñ as well as chiropractic and massage areas) coveralls, work boots and rubber boots, 5 gallon buckets, small shovels, anti bacterial wipes, water and Gatorade, back packs, ponchos and rain slickersÖ.and on and on ad infinitum. Our duties for the next ten days would be to get these supplies to the thousands of workers coming and going in this hectic place. Two blocks south of G &amp; C was ìthe pileî. It was a huge five story heap of smoking steel and god knows what else. Besides the two towers there were a number of other crushed and burned buildings. One of them had a huge crater/hole in itís middle where a portion of Tower #1 had fallen on top of it. The Marriott Hotel, just west of Tower # 2 had been squashed down to 6 stories. West St. was impassable and a large effort was taking place in clearing it. Most of the buildings surrounding GZ were severely damaged, blackened and scarred. Buildings facing the pile had all their windows blown out (falling glass was a constant hazard) and a few still had huge steel girders sticking in them like giant arrows. Adjacent the severely damaged American Express Bldg on West St. was the Winter Garden bldg/Atrium Restaurant. This was a large, white tablecloth establishment built of glass and most of the tables were still eerily set for lunch although covered in spongy dust. The flowers on the tables, although a bit wilted, still showed signs of life. Only one part of the building was damaged where some girders had crashed through the glass ceiling and were strewn on the restaurant floor. On the second floor of the AMEX Bldg was a hustle of activity as a husband and wife volunteer team from Ohio had set up an impromptu clothing and shoe depot for the fireman who lined up by the dozens to get outfitted. Water was draining along the lobby floor. Between the piles of Towers 1 and 2 was a sort of crater. When the towers fell, they had collapsed right through into their foundations which were around four stories deep. So, the visible piles which could be seen and were about 4-5 stories high were actually 8-9 stories total of twisted, compacted steel. In the center crater one could see firefighters and other rescue crews climbing up and over the outer ìhillî and disappearing into this ìno manís zoneî. Amazingly enough, the bronze globe in the smashed courtyard between the towers was still intact and standing. In some places, i.e. the top of the Marriott Hotel there were still small fires burning. In the shattered streets, which in some places had been reduced to a mix of mud and fragmented debris, there was a constantly expanding array of cranes for removing steel, special bulldozers with pincers for grabbing and pulling at the steel (appropriately called ìgrabbersî), flat bed semi trucks for hauling out the steel (to Battery Park, where it was shipped over to a holding area/dump on Staten Island) and fire trucks with their ladders fully extended and manned with fireman shooting water onto the Pile from every direction. Some cranes would hoist cages holding rescuers up and over the Pile and slowly swing them along the tangled mess looking for any signs of life or remains. Some would be equipped with cameras on telescoping poles for insertion into holes or dangerous crevasses. In some of the surrounding damaged buildings the FDNY had run hoses up to the higher floors and were spraying water from those vantage points. In the middle of all this were the ìbucket brigadesî. These were long lines of firefighters and assorted volunteers who would pass back through the lines five gallon buckets of debris being dug by fireman (and only fireman) at the front of the line. The FDNY officers would try to gauge where they thought people might have been trapped and then dig accordingly. The brigades were digging around the clock in constantly changing locales. Along the edges of this scene were various tents set up as command centers, supply depots and even a temporary morgue. On the edges of this scene, in the nooks and crannies and along the sides of buildings, were dirty, exhausted firefighters trying to grab a little rest before they would plunge back into the maelstrom. The noise of all these engines and activity and the constant warning/beeping of large vehicles caused people to shout to each other to be heard. It was in this environment that I would spend my next 10 days.
There are a few moments in everyone's career where they can either seize an opportunity or let it pass them by. In a recent interview produced by finance career site, OneWire, Ted Virtue, Founder &amp; CEO of the private equity firm, MidOcean Partners, recounts his memorable sink or swim moment at the very beginning of his career. Here's how it all started: ‚ÄúI started at [Drexel Burnham Lambert] and we started this‚Ä¶brand new product in a growing firm, and about a month into my job, which I was really enjoying, the guy who hired me‚Ä¶came in and said, ‚ÄòI‚Äôm leaving.‚Äô And the other guy about two months after that also said he‚Äôs leaving‚Ä¶And they said good luck!‚Äù Suddenly, Virtue was left alone to manage the High Yield Paper department at Drexel. He says he looked about 15 at the time: ‚ÄúSo I‚Äôm 23 years old and I‚Äôm running a big trading operation. We were underwriting a brand new product‚Ä¶and we‚Äôre running about a $5BN book of business‚Ä¶And I said, what do I do? I got to get some people here to do this! And I was 23 and I looked 15 at the most. So I literally went out to people that would actually believe in me to do it, because no one who had been experienced in the business would work with me or for me. So I hired my college roommate, and then I hired my next door neighbor and I started bringing in young guys who said, I get it. They were the only people who would come work for me!‚Äù ‚ÄúIt was a lot of fun,‚Äù Virtue says, ‚Äúbecause we did it with an incredibly young, inexperienced team‚Ä¶it was an incredible experience to be learning on the run.‚Äù The business was very profitable to boot. Virtue‚Äôs early success led him to an accomplished career on Wall Street. After Drexel, he went to Bankers Trust to help build out their investment bank. When Bankers Trust was acquired by Deutsche Bank, Virtue opted for something more entrepreneurial. He became the Chief Executive of DB Capital Partners. Later, he and his colleagues bought out their portfolio and founded MidOcean Partners, a midmarket private equity firm managing investments for over 75 companies with over $2.5BN under management, where he currently serves as CEO. You may have seen MidOcean in the news recently for the sale of Bushnell Outdoor Products to Alliant Techsystems. Watch Virtue‚Äôs Open Door interview on OneWire here, or check out the video below: 
REUTERS/Ismail ZitounyAn oil port in Libya.Oil is off more than 4% this week, falling below $111 after having hit $116 Friday, as fears of an imminent Syria strike fade. Goldman's Jeffrey Currie says the markets are over-doing the sell-off, and that fundamentals remain tight. As we have written, and as Currie reiterates, there remains 150,000 barrels a day-worth of production outages in Libya, where strikes have closed key ports and oil fields. There are also ongoing disruptions in Iraq. Plus, Western inventories remain quite low. So prices are likely to bump back up: Against this backdrop, we see the current sell-off as likely overdone and maintain our near-term Brent price forecast of $115.00/bbl as we expect the pressure on OPEC spare capacity to peak in September and October 2013 at the same time that OECD petroleum inventories are at their lowest level since mid- 2004. One oil trader has also told us WTI is also likely to remain elevated, as lower storage levels at the Cushing, Okla. are off 40% since June.
Some have attributed the gold price rally to the Federal Reserve's expanding balance sheet. Other have argued that it was driven by increasing investor accessibility thanks to the advent of commodity ETFs. Jeffrey Gundlach, the bond king behind DoubleLine Funds, offered an alternative take. During his webcast on Tuesday night, Gundlach presented this interesting chart overlaying gold prices and home prices. "When home prices were falling, that's exactly when gold went on its monster rally higher," he said. The pattern represents investors' struggle to seek a safe haven to store and preserve wealth. With home prices now on an upward trend, real estate has become a viable competitor to gold, explained Gundlach. DoubleLine Funds
Looking back five years later, there are plenty of cringe-worthy moments from the precipice of the financial crisis. Ben Bernanke's famous 2005 call that housing prices could not possibly fall nationwide comes to mind. "Money For Nothing: Inside the Federal Reserve," a new documentary looking back on 100 years of monetary policy, is particularly good at plucking out these unforgettable pieces of history. Perhaps the most awkward one from the film is this Countrywide advertisement from 2006. Of course, two years later Bank of America would purchase the failing Countrywide for $4.1 billion. But for now, let the good times roll! If you want to see everything wrong with subprime loans in one 30-second clip, this is it. Watch the clip: 
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith It's becoming very clear that rising mortgage rates are having a material impact on the housing a market. The Mortgage Bankers Association's (MBA) latest weekly survey of mortgage applications showed plunging numbers across the board. Mortgage applications for the week ending September 6 fell 13.5% from a week ago. This is a five-week low. Refinancing activity plunged 20% to its lowest level since June 2009. The average 30-year conforming fixed mortgage rate ($417,000 or less) climbed to 4.80% from 4.73% a week ago. The average 30-year fixed mortgage rate with jumbo loans climbed to 4.84% from 4.71% a week ago. "Housing is not the economic tailwind it used to be," said fund manager Jeffrey Gundlach in a webcast on Tuesday evening. Gundlach pointed to the current downtrend in the MBA mortgage index. But more importantly, he noted that the index never really rebounded with all of the other major housing indicators. Interest rates began to rise in May when the Federal Reserve said it could soon taper its monthly purchases of $45 billion worth of Treasury securities and $40 billion worth of mortgage backed bonds.
REUTERSRobert Peraza, who lost his son Robert David Peraza, pauses at his son's name at the North Pool of the 9/11 Memorial during tenth anniversary ceremonies at the site of the World Trade Center in New York, September 11, 2011.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Last night Obama made a speech laying out the case for attacking Syria. But he said that he had asked Congress to postpone a vote authorizing such a strike while a diplomatic solution was being found. As we noted at the time, various equity markets around the world caught a spike on the news. Check out what happened to oil futures just before 9:15 ET (when his talks concluded). They instantly dropped. Eventually oil prices gained again, but this is a nice example of how headlines and sentiment can combine to create quick reactions. FinViz
The latest survey from the National Federation of Independent Businesses came out yesterday, and mostly it was pretty meh. These surveys have shown pretty consistent dissatisfaction with the economy since the end of the recession, and nothing much changed. But one number looked really good. There was a huge surge in companies saying they intended to hire more people. NFIB
The number of dollar billionaires in China has passed 300 for the first time, an annual ranking of wealth in the world's second-largest economy showed Wednesday. The Hurun Report, a luxury magazine publisher, named property tycoon Wang Jianlin as China's new richest person, saying he had more than doubled his worth to $22 billion. There were a total of 315 dollar billionaires in the country, it said, up 64 from a year ago. The average fortune of the top 1,000 stood at $1.04 billion -- more than double their $440 million during the global financial crisis five years ago. But some were dogged by scandal. Three of last year's 10 richest people in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan, have been detained amid a corruption crackdown in the province. Two others on the list are in prison, while Xu Ming, who joined this year at No 676 with $490 million, was a key witness against Bo Xilai last month in China's biggest political corruption trial in decades. According to court transcripts, Xu said he gave the former senior politician 21 million yuan ($3.4 million) in bribes, including purchasing a villa in the French resort of Cannes for Bo's wife. Real estate businesswoman and recent divorcee Wu Yajun fell from No 8 to No 22 and her wealth dropped nearly a quarter to $4.6 billion after she gave her ex-husband $3 billion -- propelling him into the Top 50 in his own right. Hurun called the transaction "the most expensive divorce settlement from a wife to her husband". Real estate was the biggest source of ultrarich fortunes, led by Wang, whose conglomerate Wanda Group recently also acquired the US cinema chain AMC Entertainment and a luxury British yacht builder. But Lei Jun of mobile phone maker Xiaomi rose the fastest on the 2013 rankings after his worth shot up seven-fold to $2.6 billion. Wang was also named as China's richest man by Forbes magazine earlier this week, which estimated his wealth at $14 billion. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
APMembers of the Tokyo 2020 delegation celebrate after Tokyo was awarded the 2020 Olympic Games during the 125th IOC session in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Saturday, Sept. 7, 2013.Economist Richard Koo starts off his note with a fascinating little commentary on the news that Japan has won the Olympic games for 2020. Cheers went up across Japan last week as the International Olympic Committee decided to award the 2020 Summer Games to Tokyo. Although Japan's diplomatic relations with China and Korea appear to be deadlocked, its successful bid for the Olympics shows that: at least with the exception of those two countries: Japan is still highly regarded by the international community.†††† There was a strong sense that the victorious bid was the result of efforts by "Team Japan." Instead of the usual presentations by members of the bid committee, Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso, himself a former Olympic athlete with excellent English skills, kicked off the campaign in London, and as part of the final appeal Princess Hisako, a member of the royal family, and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who took time off from the G20 summit, helped make the case for Tokyo's bid.†††† For people in Japan, this effort created an impression of their country very different from the previous one of a nation lacking in cohesion and uncertain where it is headed.†††† This belief that Japan can do anything if people work together should enhance the economic impact of holding the Olympics.
REUTERSChinese economic data has been impressive lately for two reasons. One is that overall, emerging markets have been getting slapped pretty hard lately, and China is standing out to the upside. The other reason is that just a few months ago, there was tons of chatter about a "hard landing" or at least the immediate need to rebalance the Chinese economy. And yet the hard landing, for now, is off. That being said, one of the whole reasons people are talking about a need to rebalance the economy is the perceived massive overcapacity and slack in the economy (thanks to tons of investment-led growth post-crisis). This has created a situation of collapsing producer profits, lots of unused infrastructure, and a need to let the demand side catch up. Well, what everyone's talking about is the fact that the new batch of economic data suggests that we're back to investment-led growth, and adding more infrastructure where it is unneeded. From Morgan Stanley: Growth outlook and policy implications: The more pro-growth policy stance since late June helped the notable rebound in growth momentum on last yearís low base. In particular, allocating/mobilizing unused fiscal funds has likely expedited infrastructure investment projects. Meanwhile, the moderate PBOC liquidity injection on the short end combined with fiscal deposit auction has offered some temporary relief to tightening financial conditions. Whether this growth acceleration is sustainable largely depends on the intensity of further growth-stabilizing policy measures. In our view, the economy will still face headwinds from the ongoing deleveraging process, though counter-cyclical policy easing could alleviate the pain during the structural change. On the policy front, more signs of activity growth stabilization would likely lower the possibility of any potential high-profile easing measures, such as a RRR cut or interest rate cut, though benign CPI inflation has left abundant room for further policy easing. SocGen also raised concerns about the numbers: Chinaís industrial production growth delivered another massive upside surprise in August, surging to a 16-month high of 10.4% yoy. The significant acceleration in infrastructure investment was clearly the major push. Although this set of data puts clear upward pressure on our short-term forecast, the dominating role of infrastructure played in the sudden turn-around confirms our concern over the sustainability. Industrial production grew 10.4% yoy in August, accelerating further from the surprisingly strong 9.7% yoy in July and besting street expectations (Cons. &amp; SG 9.9%). By industry, nonferrous metal and utility were the major contributors to the headline improvement. Steel production increased 15.6% yoy, up from 10.9% yoy in July; and power generation rose 13.4% yoy, compared with 8.1% yoy in July. So, yes, recovery, but possibly at the expense of a much-needed rebalancing, and perhaps setting up the economy for a harder landing down the road. Our Mamta Badkar more on this yesterday.  Also, see Kate Mackenzie at FT.
Dimitry B / Flickr, CCMore evidence of a UK comeback. This time it's from the employment data. Via World First: The UK has seen a string of nice data over recent months. Not too surprising that this was a good one.
This is a key distressed market to follow since Las Vegas has seen the largest price decline of any of the Case-Shiller composite 20 cities.  The Greater Las Vegas Association of Realtors reported GLVAR reports 19-month run of rising home prices, increased inventory There are several key trends that we've been following: 1) Overall sales were down¬†slightly from July, and down about 4% year-over-year. 2) Conventional sales are up sharply.¬† In¬†August 2012, only 39.4% of all sales were conventional.¬† This year, in¬†August 2013, 67% were conventional.¬† That is an increase in conventional sales of about 63% (of course¬†there is heavily investor buying, but that is still quite an increase in non-distressed sales). 3)¬† Most distressed sales are¬†short sales instead of foreclosures (over 3 to 1). 4) and most interesting right now is that non-contingent inventory (year-over-year) is now increasing quickly.¬† Non-contingent inventory is¬†up 41.1%¬†year-over-year! This suggests inventory¬†has bottomed in Las Vegas (A major theme for housing in 2013).¬† And this suggests price increases will slow. ¬†
Wikimedia Commons, AlexshToday markets are pausing, but generally world markets have been on a major roll. SocGen's Kit Juckes explains it in simple terms: †European and Asian equities and ërisk-on' currencies have all benefitted as the post-payroll asset rally gained momentum. I think the move has a decent chance to last till Christmas. Tapering will be announced next week, the ëtapering isn't tightening message' will be repeated and policy uncertainty will decrease. The Fed is on hold until the second half of 2015, the ECB for even longer, the Chinese slowdown is having a vacation (thanks to some shadow banking) and it looks as though military action in Syria will be avoided. Have the global economy's structural problems gone up in a puff of smoke? No, but that's not the point right now.
Leo Reynolds / FlickrBoth Monday and Tuesday were blistering days for the market. Propelled by decent economic data (especially out of Asia) and a pause in the march to hostilities in Syria, stocks surged globally and oil tanked. Today: Not very much. There was initially a pop in all markets last night, when Obama said that a vote on Syria had been postponed to work on a diplomatic effort to avoid a strike. But that eventually faded, and no market anywhere is doing anything particularly special.
