Since 2011, Lakshman Achuthan of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) has been taking a lot of heat for his controversial call that the U.S. economy would fall into a recession. In an appearance with Bloomberg's Tom Keene last November, Achuthan clarified that based on the four official recession indicators considered by the NBER ó the folks who date recession ó the U.S. fell into recession in July 2012. He also said we would know that the U.S. fell into recession by the end of 2012. Since then, the ECRI head had been off the radar. Today, Achuthan emailed to Business Insider a brand new presentation titled "The U.S. Business Cycle in the Context of the Yo-Yo Years."† "Yo-Yo Years" was a concept he introduced in March 2012. (Download it here.) In 17 pages, Achuthan makes his best effort to defend his recession call. Economic Cycle Research InstituteHe begins by looking at what gross domestic product (GDP) and gross domestic income (GDI) are telling us.† First, GDP: As it happened, in January 2013 there was a negative GDP print, consistent with our belief that the recession had begun around mid-2012. Here we have a chart of year-over-year nominal GDP growth which, after last weekís revision of real GDP growth from -0.1% to 0.1%, is still down to 3.5%. This chart begins in the early 1980s. Based on the full 65 years of historical data, nominal GDP growth below 3.7%, which is marked off by the horizontal line, has always occurred in a recessionary context ñ without exception. This chart is consistent with a mild recession. Yet, we have all heard lots of commentary that weíre in a ì2% economyî ñ not that great, but as long as the economy stayed above recessionary stall speed it would be okay. Economic Cycle Research InstituteAnd then he considers GDI: About two years ago the Federal Reserve Board published a study that investigated various stall-speed measures, including GDP and Gross Domestic Income (GDI), which should theoretically be identical to GDP but for the statistical discrepancy. The Fed study concluded that the best stall-speed measure may be the two-quarter annualized growth rate of real GDI, and when that measure fell below 2% it was a recession signal, because the economy would stall out. Here is a historical chart of the two-quarter annualized percent change in GDI, with a horizontal line placed at the Fedís 2% stall- speed threshold. You can see why they believe that historically that has been a fairly reliable recession signal, because it has never dropped clearly below that threshold without there being a recession. It is not unusual to see this measure drop below the 2% stall speed, pop up briefly, and then fall back as recession begins. So where were we in 2012? All the way to the right of this 65-year chart we see this measure decline in the second quarter of 2012 to 1.5%, below the stall-speed threshold. And in the third quarter of 2012 it dropped further to 0.4%. So by last summer it had already spent two quarters below stall speed. You may recall that in the run-up to last fallís election, the jobless rate was falling so rapidly that some even questioned how real the decline was. But in light of the Fedís stall-speed measure, their pledge last year of ongoing quantitative easing makes more sense. While we have yet to hear any of the official agencies declare that the U.S. is indeed in recession, Achuthan continues to be convinced that the numbers speak for themselves. "So that is the evidence from GDP and GDI, and you can begin to draw your own conclusions about the U.S. economy and if it is in recession," said Achuthan. "But what about the other key coincident indicators?" † Thanks to ECRI for giving us permission to feature this presentation.† Also, download Achuthan's presentation "The Yo-Yo Years" here.
APTwo months ago, House Speaker John Boehner made a bold proclamation that Republicans had "as much leverage as we're going to get" on the debate over the sequester. Boehner's statement, which he made in a Jan. 6 interview with the¬†Wall Street Journal's Stephen Moore,¬†ran contrary to the conventional wisdom behind the sequester. The prevailing notion was that Republican defense hawks would pressure him into caving on a deal that included tax increases. And Congressional Republicans weren't exactly popular coming out of the fiscal cliff debate. But now that the budget cuts have kicked in, it seems Boehner knew exactly what he was doing.¬†As a result of the Speaker's unwillingness to give in on the sequester, Obama lost much of the leverage he enjoyed during the negotiations to avert the fiscal cliff,¬†and House Republicans are in much better shape than they were after the year-end deal. "Think of it this way," Boehner told Moore back in January. "We already have an agreement [capping] discretionary spending for 10 years. And we're already in our second year of it. This whole discussion on the budget over the next several months is going to be about these entitlements." Obama and the White House appear to have miscalculated the sequester,¬†believing that¬†Republicans would rather accept new tax increases rather than accept crippling defense cuts. The miscalculations continued¬†with the deal to avert the fiscal cliff, when Vice President Joe Biden helped broker a last-minute deal that made most of the Bush-era tax cuts permanent while delaying the sequester cuts for two months.¬†Obama ended up only raising half of the revenue he was seeking, and Democrats no longer had a mechanism to force the GOP to the bargaining table. Although the fiscal cliff agreement was widely seen as a victory for the President, one Senate Democratic aide conceded that the deal has been a point of worry among Hill Democrats.¬† There is still some risk for Boehner. The effects of the sequester haven't yet been felt beyond the doom-and-gloom talk¬†in Washington.¬†If the budget cuts are economically damaging, House Republicans will bear the brunt of the blame, according to polls taken before the sequester. And even Boehner has admitted he has no idea what effect the cuts will have on the economy in the long-term. So there's still more to come. But for now, Boehner's gamble is paying off.
Stephen Chernin / AP There are a couple of big economic reports that could move markets tomorrow including the Euro-Zone gross domestic product report. Also, it's jobs week in America, which means ADP will give us a preview of the Friday jobs report. Here's what you need to know (all times ET, consensus estimates from Bloomberg):
Asian markets are open, and they're surging. Japan's Nikkei is leading the way, up 1.3 percent.† The Nikkei is at a 4 1/2 year high. This follows a big day in the U.S. markets where the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at an all-time high. Here's a look at the Nikkei and the yen: Nikkei
APIt could take another year before Gov. Andrew Cuomo decides the fate of fracking in New York, according to the AP's Michael Gormley. Gormley spoke with environmental activist Robert Kennedy Jr., who told him Cuomo is going to hold off on deciding whether to allow fracking until a major study from Pennsylvania's Geisinger Health System is completed. According to a Geisinger release on the study, preliminary results "may be released within the next year," while other aspects of the research will unfold over five, 10 or 20 years. Fracking has been banned in New York since 2008. Gov. Cuomo has repeatedly said "science, not politics" will dictate the decision, Gormley notes.
CNBCOn Tuesday, the Dow closed at an all-time high. It's up 120 percent from its March 6, 2009 lows. Ever since the low, experts from both the bearish and bullish camps have presented their arguments for why investors should sell. Sure, there have been dips along the way. Ultimately, though, the trend has been up. To be clear, none of the people we identify here are idiots, and we don't want to give that impression.  But this epic bull market run has certainly made a lot of people look and feel like idiots.
AP PhotoIt's a classic he-said-she-said ó except she is Forbes' Senior Editor†Kerry Dolan and he is Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, considered to be the richest man in Saudi Arabia and one of the richest people in the world. They're fighting over how much the Saudi Arabian prince is worth. Alwaleed believes the number is a $29.6 billion, while Forbes disagreed and placed him at number 26 on its annual billionaires list with a net worth estimate of $20 billion. Regardless, Alwaleed is still rich beyond belief from his stake in his Kingdom Holding Company, his Saudi real estate investments, shares in Arab media companies, and investments in public and private companies globally, including Twitter.
CNBC seems to have been getting a lot of flack lately. Most recently, its rival Fox Business is airing commercials slamming the business network for its new reality show lineup (h/t The Washington Examiner). CNBC will now fill the post-market hours with shows like "The Car Chasers" and "Treasure Detectives." Fox News has taken that change in that programming as an opportunity to remind CNBC that money never sleeps. "No fluff, no games, no nonsense... Our business is business, that's our reality," says their commercial. Watch the it below (via The Washington Examiner): 
It's just been reported that Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is dead. What's the market reaction? Below is a chart of Venezuelan 15-year government bond yields. The chart shows that anyone hoping to profit from Chavez's death probably already missed the rally, as investors have been snapping up these bonds for nearly a year, betting on Chavez's deteriorating health. Bloomberg, Business Insider In other words, today's news is probably already largely priced into the market.
DoubleLine FundsJeff Gundlach's latest webcast, which he's titled "The Big Easy," has just wrapped up. The title refers to the worldwide central bank easing that has kept interest rates low. Gundlach worries about the long-term implications of these actions. But for now, he believes that interest rates will remain low.† And he believes that talk of a bond bubble is a myth as investor exposure to bonds is actually quite low. In fact, Gundlach notes that DoubleLine has actually increased its exposure to Treasuries.† He believes that 2 percent on the 10-year note and th 3.25 on the 30-year bond† are both attractive. In the Q&amp;A he joked that he thought the 10-year note would end the year at 1.63 percent "to pick an absurdly pinpoint number." As usual, Gundlach has compiled a series of important charts on central banks, federal debt, inflation, stocks, bonds, and other critical global macro indicators. Gundlach has nailed his calls on Apple, the Nikkei, the Yen, the Shanghai composite, and natural gas. If you want to understand how the bond god thinks, then you must see these charts.
Wikimedia CommonsHugo Chavez is dead. Now, it seems likely that Nicol√°s Maduro, his Vice President and the man Chavez groomed to succeed him, will be the new interim president. The world got a taste of Maduro's style today with a rambling, conspiracy-fueled speech ‚Äî accusing the U.S. of espionage, right wing groups of sabotage, and saying that Chavez was probably poisoned. But what else do we know about him? In December, Peter Wilson wrote for Foreign Policy about Maduro's "meteoric rise from bus driver to union leader," describing how he rose from Caracas poverty to become one of Chavez's most trusted men. Maduro first became a supporter of Chavez before his 1992 coup attempt. When Chavez eventually came to power in 1999 he became a legislator, and went on to become foreign minister in 2006 ‚Äî one of his most memorable moments was a 2007 rant that accused the US of "total madness" and plotting war against Iran. He was elevated to vice president by Chavez last year, a move that many took to be Chavez anointing him as his heir. His humble beginnings have worked in his favor, and he remains one of the most popular members of the United Socialist Party of Venezuela. What can we expect from him? Experts describe a relatively calm man who may not be a natural leader. According to The New York Times, his friends describe him as "a man who laughs loudly, who likes to eat submarine sandwiches and overfilled¬†arepas, who enjoys cigars and baseball." "It's impossible to expect Maduro to be another Ch√°vez,'' Miguel Tinker Salas, a professor of Latin American history at Pomona College and the author of "The Enduring Legacy: Oil, Culture and Society in Venezuela," told Wilson. "Instead he represents continuity with the policies and programs that the president has promoted. This is still very much an evolving process with much still unclear." ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs known as a yes man, and he‚Äôs somebody that has never shown an independent streak,‚Äù David Smilde, a senior fellow of the¬†Washington Office on Latin America, told the New York Times in December. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs what has been key for him, always put the light on Ch√°vez.‚Äù Another bigger question is whether Maduro will actually be able to claim the presidency. Diosdado Cabello, speaker in Venezuela's congress and a hardline Chavez ally, may himself make a run for the presidency or attempt to become the interim president, forcing Chavez's party into conflict with itself. And either way, Venezuela's constitution calls for an election in 30 days. Perhaps in preparation for conflict, Maduro has called the military to the streets of Venezuela.
Fox NewsConservative Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) introduced legislation that would, in effect, prevent President Barack Obama from playing golf unless the White House reinstates public tours. The amendment, part of the House's stopgap measure to fund the government, comes¬†in response to the¬†White House's decision Saturday to cancel public tours as a result of the sequester ‚Äî a move ¬†that has¬†caused backlash from Republican lawmakers. "Canceling all self-guided White House tours is the latest shameless political stunt by the president, who is twisting basic government efficiency into an extreme consequence," Republican Rep. Tom Graves said in a statement. Now, Gohmert's measure would prohibit the White House from using any of the appropriated funds to pay for Obama's frequent golfing outings unless the tours are reinstated. ¬† "None of the funds made available by a¬†division of this Act may be used to transport the President¬†to or from a golf course until public tours of the White¬†House resume," Gohmert's amendment reads.¬† The House is expected to vote on their continuing resolution bill on Wednesday.
AP Photo/Fernando Llano Venezuelan Vice President Nicol√°s Maduro says President Hugo Chavez has died. The 58-year-old Venezuelan president was fighting an undisclosed type of pelvic cancer since at least June 30, 2011, and had come back from the illness to win re-election last year. The news came just hours after a press conference by VP Maduro that gave the impression that Hugo Chavez was on the brink of death. In a new statement, Maduro says Chavez died at 4:25 pm. Bloomberg reports that Venezuela is to deploy troops to keep order in the streets, and Maduro is urging Venezuelans against violence. Under Article 323 of the Venezuelan constitution, an election must take place within 30 days of the death of a president. Chavez's anointed heir, Maduro, may be President for less than a month before the election takes place. If Maduro chooses to contest the election, it seems likely he would face opposition leader Henrique Capriles, a young, charismatic politician who received 46 percent of the vote when he competed against Chavez in October. Many suspect, however, that Diosdado Cabello, speaker in Venezuela's congress and a hard-line Chavez ally, may make a run for the presidency or attempt to become the interim president, forcing Chavez's United Socialist Party of Venezuela into conflict with itself.
Business InsiderJeff Gundlach just hosted another one of his popular webcasts where he discusses his views on the economy and the financial markets. Gundlach, the brilliant fund manager behind DoubleLine Capital, has gotten a lot of attention lately for making some brilliant market calls. The most talked-about call was his long-time forecast for Apple to fall to $425.† This happened yesterday. Gundlach has also been recommending buying Japanese stocks while shorting the Japanese yen, another call that has been a home run. Japan's bond market has been the worst offenders. Even the emerging markets, which some believe to have a risk cushion, are down. The one winner is high yield bonds, which are correlated to stocks. The term "Big Easy" was never used prior to 1970.&nbsp; This was around the same time when the financial "Big Easy" began; Richard Nixon closed the gold window. Now central banks around the world are running circular financing schemes. Most major countries are running budget deficits relative to GDP.  The "Big Easy" is really about central bank balance sheet expansion.  Central banks adding to balance sheets at around 3% of GDP per annum.&nbsp; The Fed will keep this going for not months, but years.&nbsp; The important question is what will happen when they stop.  Gundlach noted that he recently increased his exposure to Treasury bonds. It's possible. But retail ownship of stocks is high.&nbsp; And bond ownership is actually quite low. Interesting that Prime Minister Abe ran on a platform of inflation, which couldn't happen in the U.S. Demographics are bad, trade deficit is rising, no savings. All that's left is currency debasement. The achilles heel of the global economy may be protectionism if currency debasement is happening.&nbsp; This is coming. *Bond yields are not rising, but the yen is falling.&nbsp; The purpose of money printing is to keep yields low.&nbsp; Quantitative easing will not allow rates to rise.&nbsp; So, with the 10-year yield above 2% and 30-year yield above 3.25%, Treauries are attractive.  QE hasn't appeared in commodity prices.&nbsp; But you could argue that they would've been lower. It's devastating for young people looking for jobs. "Government involvement creates inflation." Must consider the impact of government involvement in the markets. This is a broken model. "We do not have exposure to student debt in the DoubleLine Funds." "Housing almost has to go higher." Home prices are closer to lows than highs. "...to pick and absurdly pinpoint number." "I just don't have an opinion." The next move probably is up near-term.&nbsp; "It probably ultimately goes lowerr."
Hubert Joly, the new chief at Best Buy, has made a bold move to totally revamp the culture at the struggling consumer electronics big box chain. Last November at an investor conference, Joly gave a revealing quote to the Star-Tribune that sheds light on what he wants Best Buy to be like on the inside. ìIn a turnaround transformation, direction needs to come from the top," he said. "I make sure to get to a conclusion based on fact." "You need to feel dispensable as opposed to indispensable,î he said about himself. Joly said that he wanted to restore accountability to the culture at Best Buy. It starts with himself, but everyone has to be on board with that culture. Now, Best Buy has killed its Results Only Work Environment (ROWE), which allowed employees to work wherever they wanted as long as they got the job done,†Thomas Lee at the Star-Tribune reported.† And the existing program didn't help create that environment. Joly hated it.†In fact,†Joly declared the ROWE program "fundamentally flawed" in February.† Employees will now work a standard 40-hour week, with some exceptions. This is obviously a move to change the basic corporate culture at Best Buy. It's going into emergency mode, calling all hands to do their part to help out. But will employees buy into Joly's vision? Best Buy corporate employees, let me know what you think about all this. Email me at kbhasin@businessinsider.com.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich Identifies Four Risks In Bond Portfolios (iSharesBlog) Bond portfolios can contain more risks than investors realize, according to BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. These include 1. "The eventual end of QE" - When easy money dwindles bond prices will fall. 2. "Extreme positioning" - Investors chasing income have purchased bonds but "these 'conviction-less' trades could easily reverse". 3. There is "acute interest rate risk", and 4. "A breakdown in asset correlations" which means there could be better returns for those willing to take risks now.  A Goldman Sachs Employee Lost Her Job After Falling For A Scam (The Wall Street Journal) Eileen Appelblatt a former Goldman Sachs employee lost her job after 30 years with the firm when she fell for a scam. She was let go because she allegedly provided inaccurate information in her wire transfer request. Appelblatt was also given a $10,000 fine and a 60-day suspension from Finra. The regulator also said an increasing number of financial professionals are being targeted by those carrying out financial frauds.  The Worst Investment Strategy Of 2013 (Goldman Sachs) Goldman SachsRosenberg: Gold Is Going To $3,000 (Business Insider)  Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg is speaking at a CFA Institute event in Chicago today. Rosenberg has reiterated his call for gold to reach $3,000 per ounce. Rosenberg has been making this call for some time now. He also reiterated that in a low interest rate environment like we're seeing, investors should focus on S.I.R.P. (Security and Income at a Reasonable Price). He favors corporate bonds and dividend stocks.  Institutional Investors Are Still Investing In IPOs (Investment News) While the IPO market itself seems to be slowing, institutional investors' demand for IPOs is strong. A survey of over 300 institutional investors by Ernst &amp; Young showed that 82 percent had invested in IPOs in the past year. That is up from 12 percent in 2010 and 2011. 
Clusterstock Select is an easy-to-read daily email newsletter that rounds up top headlines, analysis, and video covering Wall Street and the financial services industry. Signing up is quick and easy.¬† Use the form below to enter your information then click the "Sign Up" button. ¬† ¬† ¬†
(nz)dave / FlickrThe Dow hit an all-time high today. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,254, +125.9 pts, +0.8 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,539, +14.5 pts, +0.9 percentNASDAQ: 3,224, +42.1 pts, +1.3 percent And now the top stories:
JCPenney's board of directors may push to sell the ailing retailer or replace CEO Ron Johnson if sales don't turn around "this year," sources told¬†Dana Mattioli at The Wall Street Journal. This news comes shortly after Steven Roth's Vornado Realty Trust moved to get rid of more than 40 percent of its stake. Roth was activist investor Bill Ackman's biggest ally on JCPenney's board, and Ackman is a loyal Johnson loyal supporter. The hedge funder brought in the former Apple retail chief to turn things around at the department store chain in late 2011. Johnson has repeatedly stated that the turnaround attempt is nowhere near complete. Ackman has given him a deadline of three years. "If three years from now, Ron Johnson is still struggling to turn around¬†JCPenney, then he's probably the wrong guy," Ackman said on CNBC last month. But with sales plummeting and support waning on the board, it may not end up being Ackman's call to make. Here's the full list of JCPenney board members: Ron Johnson ‚Äî¬†Chief Executive Officer, J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Thomas Engibous ‚Äî¬†Chairman, J. C. Penney Company, Inc.¬†Retired Chairman of the Board, Texas Instruments Inc. William Ackman ‚Äî¬†Founder and CEO, Pershing Square Capital Management Colleen Barrett ‚Äî¬†President Emeritus, Southwest Airlines Co. Kent Foster ‚Äî¬†Retired Chairman of the Board, Ingram Micro Inc. Geraldine Laybourne ‚Äî¬†Founder and Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Oxygen Media Leonard Roberts ‚Äì¬†Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, RadioShack Corporation Steven Roth ‚Äî¬†Chairman of the Board, Vornado Realty Trust Javier Teruel ‚Äî¬†Retired Vice Chairman, Colgate-Palmolive Company,¬†Partner, Spectron Desarrollo, SC R. Gerald Turner ‚Äî¬†President, Southern Methodist University Mary Beth West ‚Äî¬†Executive Vice President and Chief Category and Marketing Officer, Kraft Foods Inc
VFBill AckmanWe've read a copy of tomorrow's Vanity Fair profile on billionaire hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management ‚Äî and you're definitely going to want to check it out. William Cohan's profile is packed with juicy tidbits about the relationships between the players in the latest hedge fund war over Herbalife.¬† Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutritional supplements, is at the center of a clash of hedge fund titans. On the bearish side, Ackman's Pershing Square is short-selling $1 billion worth of its shares with a price target of $0 because he believes it's a pyramid scheme. Meanwhile a number of hedge funders, including Ackman's former friend Daniel Loeb of Third Point LLC and long-time rival Carl Icahn, have snapped up big long stakes. Now some quotes from tomorrow's big article:¬† ON WHY ACKMAN'S NO LONGER FRIENDS WITH GREENLIGHT'S DAVID EINHORN: HEDGE FUNDER BOB CHAPMAN, WHO WENT LONG HERBALIFE AND IS KNOWN FOR HIS VITRIOLIC LETTERS TO COMPANIES, ON WHY OTHER HEDGE FUNDERS DISLIKE ACKMAN: ACKMAN ON CHAPMAN: AN UNNAMED HEDGE FUNDER ALSO POINTS OUT HOW ACKMAN CAN OFFEND OTHERS: ACKMAN CASUALLY REVEALS HE HAD SKIN CANCER: You definitely want to check out the full profile when it comes out. Check out the preview here &gt;
IMDB America's public education system is a mess. The U.S. is by far the richest country in the world, but our education system ranks a pathetic 17th among developed countries. American students, meanwhile, are ranked only 25th in proficiency in math, 17th in science, and 14th in reading. There are many reasons for this sad state of affairs,* but an important one is this: We have not yet figured out how to use our world-leading technology and innovation to increase education productivity and improve the learning experience. Thankfully, a new generation of education entrepreneurs has begun to fix that. Khan Academy, for example, grew out of founder Salman Khan's penchant for recording lessons on video in his closet and then posting them for free on YouTube. The lessons were wildly popular, and now Khan Academy offers a wide variety of videos that invite people to "learn almost anything for free." Codecademy offers online courses focused on a specific vocational skill--software development. Udacity offers cheap online college courses.† Udemy connects freelance "instructors" with students across a wide range of disciplines. And Coursera and edX are partnering with colleges and universities to offer courses for free to millions of students around the world. The next frontier in technology-assisted education is high school. And, thankfully, here, too, help is on the way. A few years ago, a Silicon Valley-based entrepreneur and investor named David Siminoff got bored with running a small hedge fund. In the evenings, as a side project, after downing a couple of glasses of wine, he began writing essays about some of the books he had read and loved in high school. The books were the same books that everyone reads in high school--The Great Gatsby, All Quiet On The Western Front, Ulysses--books that are often made impenetrable or ruined by the pressures of the classroom. Early in his career, before going to Stanford business school, running several companies, and becoming one of the most plugged-in and successful investors in Silicon Valley, Siminoff had gotten a Master Of Fine Arts at U.S.C. Film School. Writing about books, he found, was a way of putting his long-dormant literary passion to good use. Siminoff wrote a few dozen literary "guides" and posted them online. And then, he says, with characteristic breeziness, "a million people just showed up." By then, with the help of his wife Ellen, Siminoff had turned his evening project into a small non-profit organization, which the Siminoffs' daughter Sophie named "Shmoop." Shmoop, Siminoff explains, is a Yiddish word that means "to move something along a little bit." Siminoff's grandmother would tell him to "shut up and shmoop me my chocolates."† "Shmoop" was also Siminoff's nickname for his daughter as she shmooped along the floor in her diapers as a baby. The Siminoffs' non-profit Shmoop was going to be dedicated to moving high school English education along a little bit--the "Khan Academy of literature." As soon as "a million people showed up," however, Ellen Siminoff got a better idea. They would turn Shmoop into a business. A founding executive at Yahoo, Ellen Siminoff had run several key Yahoo businesses back in the dotcom boom and then gone on to be the CEO of search-engine marketing firm Efficient Frontier, which is now a division of Adobe. Ellen had had plenty of experience in figuring out how to "monetize" online eyeballs. David SiminoffThe Siminoffs: David, Ellen, Sophie, and Ben.The couple realized that Shmoop had an opportunity to help high schools and junior colleges supplement their curricula. And they realized they would have a tough time attracting and paying the talent they needed to go after this opportunity if they remained a non-profit. So while her husband drank wine and wrote about books, Ellen set about generating some revenue. Figuring that smartphone-carrying high-school students might pay 99 cents for an app that made reading The Great Gatsby fun, she turned her husband's guides into apps. When the apps sold themselves, she hired a tech team to crank out dozens more, and she expanded Shmoop's web site. Then she "cloned" her husband, hiring and managing hundreds of over-educated, under-paid PhDs to write additional literary guides, as well as study guides for other courses and preparation materials for Advanced Placement tests and the ACT college admissions exams. Eventually, a school system called and asked about buying hundreds of licenses for its students. Then more school systems called. Shmoop's guides and test-prep materials, which were priced at about $2-$23 apiece, were vastly cheaper than the traditional alternatives. They didn't displace teachers or force them to do their jobs differently. They just provided the basic background material, which allowed teachers to focus on teaching. Importantly, the accessible style of David Siminoff's wine-inspired teaching guides also resonated with high-school students--unlike the boring formal-speak found in traditional study aids. "It's hard for corporations to be intentionally funny and engaging," Siminoff explains, when asked why students like Shmoop. "We love the student. We speak student." Shmoop Hiring and paying employees required money, but the Siminoffs were enjoying running Shmoop as a family business, so they funded the company themselves (an option they had after two decades of success in a variety of investments and ventures.)† Over the next several years, they invested several million dollars in the company. Four years later, Shmoop has become a high school education juggernaut. The company now has: There are about 13 million high-school students in the United States and a lot more internationally. So there's still plenty of room for growth in Shmoop's existing business. And a new crop of ~4 million high-school students (potential customers) enroll in school each fall, and the books, math, science, history, and other topics that they study don't change much. So Shmoop's growing library of guides and lessons--all of which it owns outright--should remain fresh and relevant for decades. And now, thanks to the combination of a growing acceptance of web-based learning tools as well as a new government initiative to standardize high-school course curricula, a new opportunity for Shmoop has emerged. In an effort to make sure all American students have the chance to learn the same basic skills and information, the United States has established a new "Common Core Curriculum" initiative that will apply to most schools in the country. This "core curriculum" sets standards for grade levels and course material, and it is highly standardized. Many states have already signed up and said their schools will comply with the initiative. This hanging curricula--and offering hundreds of different and new courses--creates an administrative challenge for many schools. And that's where Shmoop comes in. The company is now developing 187 courses that conform with the Common Core Curriculum standards in each subject. And it is using the "MOOC" concept--Massive Online Open Courses--to allow schools to subscribe to and "teach" these courses cheaply and efficiently. (Shmoop's MOOC, not surprisingly, is called "SHMOOC." It's a nice complement to the company's SHMOOPSTERPIECE Theatre video productions.) By partnering with Shmoop, high schools can comply with the new standards and be able to offer more courses than they would if they had to plan and teach the courses themselves. Again, the Shmoop courses won't displace each school's teachers: They will simply allow the teachers to focus on the most interesting material in class, and, in the case of niche courses, serve more as consultants and education counselors. Siminoff offers the example of a high school that wanted to offer a course in, say, Victorian Literature. There might be limited interest in this course, and having a traditional teacher prepare and teach it would be expensive. But using Shmoop's course, a single teacher could supervise the few students taking the course--without having to dedicate a huge amount of time to the background preparation, teaching, and grading.) "We can take any public school with six to seven English courses and give them eighty," Siminoff says. "We can provide our entire curriculum to every school at a fraction of the cost.† If only 3 students want to take a course on Great Women Writers Of The 18th Century, we can allow the school to offer that. The goal is to offer a world-class education at the high school level, for students who are willing to make an extra effort." Siminoff also emphasizes another key reason for Shmoop's success: The company partners with schools and teachers--it doesn't displace them. "We apply technology to help schools do it better. They can offer more courses.† Kids come to class having done the work.† Teachers can focus on engaging discussion.† Teachers can ask, 'what if?,' instead of just hounding the kids to do their homework.† We handle the background. They do the interesting stuff.† When a student has used our Gatsby guide, the teacher doesn't have to explain the book. The teacher can ask, 'why was Gatsby great?'" As for tests--making sure kids do the homework and write their papers and understand the material--Shmoop's courses handle that, too. Students take multiple-choice quizzes online. If they don't achieve a certain score, they take them again. Shmoop is launching its first Common Core Curriculum course, American History, in beta this month.† Then it plans to roll out 2 to 10 courses a month starting in August until it has built all 187 that it has currently planned. After that, Siminoff says, the company will have planned another hundred or so. As many education entrepreneurs point out, our schools have been teaching kids the same way for centuries. Because the process is so labor-intensive, educators have resisted change, and the technology industry has never figured out how to crack the code, the education business has seen little of the technology-driven productivity improvements that have transformed other industries. With luck, thanks to the new breed of digital education startups like Shmoop, that is finally about to change. Disclosure: I have known David and Ellen Siminoff personally for two decades. I have followed Shmoop's progress over the past four years, from evening project to thriving business, and I think it's very cool. Because I think Shmoop is very cool, I was eager to learn more about it and write this story. If I had not thought Shmoop was very cool, however, I would not have written this story, for two reasons: First, because I don't like bashing startups (it's hard enough to succeed without some blowhard critic telling everyone why he thinks you're going to fail), and, second, because the Siminoffs are good friends of mine, and I would not have wanted them to be mad at me.  * America spends less on public education as a percent of total government expenditures than 17 other countries. Americans also don't hold teachers in the same esteem that other countries do (In Finland and Japan, for example, people honor teachers; Americans see teachers as civil-service bureaucrats who don't even deserve the meager salaries and pensions that they get.)
Those who believe that government is too big should spend some time looking this over. They will get sick. For those who think that government is too small; well, they should also spend some time with the report. No reasonable person could look at this and conclude that all is well in D.C. I reviewed the report to determine what the consequence of sequestration would be on interest payments on BABs bonds.There was so much more to consider than BABs. First some details on the BABs, then some thoughts about the budget in general. The Build America Bond program (BABs) was a child created in 2009 when the Muni bond market was freezing up. The federal government agreed to pay 1/3 of the interest on the Muni bonds.¬† The cost to the Treasury in 2013 was anticipated to be $3.4b, but the 5.1% cut across all budget items reduces the payout by $171m. Really? The amount involved is small, but a payment default on interest is a payment default on interest. What‚Äôs going to happen? Are investors in BABs going to get stiffed? Are the states and cities that did the actual borrowing going to have to pick up the Federal shortfall? BABs are the biggest category of debt that will suffer from cuts. Qualified School Construction Bonds, New Clean Renewable Energy Bonds and Qualified Energy Conservation Bonds¬† will also see their coupons ‚Äúclipped‚Äù by the sequestration. As this is about money, contracts and debt, it is a sure thing there will be some suits over this. I see it is as a technical default on a debt obligation. Some broader thoughts on the information from OMB: * The government has many employees, as a result, the government must contribute to the Social Security Trust Fund and the Medicare Fund. These payment are not much different than what a private sector employer is obligated to do. The federal government was supposed to pay SS $5.7B; as a result of the sequester, the amount will be reduced by $250m. This is bull. Reducing payments to SS in 2013 means that the SSTF will run out earlier. There is no ‚ÄúSavings‚Äù associated with this. It‚Äôs just a kick of the can. There is no cut of expenses, it‚Äôs just a deferral. Each department of the government is scheduled to make payments to various Trust Funds. All of those payments are being reduced by 5%.¬† There is not one penny of true savings attached to this; it‚Äôs a shell game. * One of the greatest deals the country gets is with the Supreme Court. The Supremes have a cost of only $73m. By comparison, the Federal Court of Appeals spends $3.8B. * The President was correct when he said that money for food inspection would be cut. As a result of sequestration, $106m will be lopped from the inspector‚Äôs budgets. But the budget was $2.3B to start with. We spend this much money, and we still get 50m case of food born illnesses a year. * NOAA costs $3.3b, the Patent Office runs another $3b. The Department of Education spends $15.8b on Accelerating Achievement and Ensuring Equity. What‚Äôs that about? * The Department of Energy has a budget of $7.7b to build nukes. It also has a budget to spend $2.4b on Nuclear Nonproliferation. So the US builds them, while spending big bucks to stop others. * The Department of Energy is scheduled to spend $5.4b on Defense Environmental Cleanup. The sequester will cut $250m off the tab. Think Rocky Flats and Hanford. * The CDC costs $5.7b a year. The National Institute of Health drops $31b a year! What are the doing at NIH? The TSA spends $5.5b on Aviation Safety, but only $136m on Surface Transportation Security. Maybe that‚Äôs the right ratio of spending given what happened with 911. Time will tell. The Border Patrol costs a mega $11b; while on the other hand, you have spending for Protection of Foreign Missions and Officials at only $27m! Think Libya. * FEMA has a budget of $18b, $900m of that will be cut. This a joke. If the country has another Sandy or Katrina, the cost will be $100b. Congress will pass a supplemental bill for the cost when another storm hits. The US is ‚ÄúSelf insured‚Äù, but it has no reserves for losses, and we are having 100 year storms, three times a year. There is a category for Unanticipated Needs, a lousy $1m is the budget, it will be cut by 50k. * The operating cost for the IRS is a lumpy $12b. One budget item, Informant Payments caught my eye. The budget for ‚Äúrat fees‚Äù comes to $125m. * The Foreign Military Financing Program spends $6.4b. The budget for Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund is another 1b. Probably nothing to see here, right? * The military sucks down huge bucks. There are pages and pages of details. It‚Äôs hard to make sense of it all. The annual fixed costs at the the Pentagon come to $76b, nearly half of that cost is for health care. The operating costs of the Air Force, Navy, Army and Marines comes to $189b The real cost of the military is all of the ‚Äústuff‚Äù that it buys. Big ticket things like aircraft carriers, jets, missile systems, tracked vehicles and the like. It‚Äôs over $130b a year. The sequester requires an 8% cut of these expenditures. The numbers are big enough to move the GDP, and this certainly will hit employment. The military is spending $60b in R&amp;D; think there is any ‚Äúfat‚Äù in that budget? One item I thought was interesting was in the budget for procurement for Ammunition. $4b for bullets. Do they really need 10 billion bullets a year? I could go on for a bit. There was not a single page of the 70 detailed pages that did not have one or two items that were questionable. The sequester is a stupid way of going about cutting expenses, but there is a ton of fat in what is spent. Warning: The report is endless. It will hurt your eyes and make you sick.
Though not the final say, the results of the Environmental Impact Assessment weren't exactly favorable to the projects opponents. State found that not building the pipeline, which would transport 700,000 barrels of crude a day from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, would barely dent oil sands development.† So while it now seems increasingly likely developer Transcanada will get its permit, the three-years-worth of delays mean the project will not be fully up and running until 2016, Reuters columnist Robert Campbell writes. In an email, Campbell explained why it could take up to a year, before Transcanada is able to break ground, and thus another two years before crude starts flowing: Currently EPA has to review the draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS). Then they put it out for a 45-day comment period with a notice in Fed. Register. Then State has to compile all comments and answer any ìsubstantiveî criticisms of the draft SEIS before publishing a final version. Once the final version is released there is a minimum 30-day period (again from Fed. Register publication date) before it is done. THEN the relevant agency makes a finding whether or not the issuance of the permit is in the national interest after which there is a 15 day period for other agencies to object and kick it up to the white house. So we have a minimum of 90 days of waiting/comment periods alone to work through.  Plus the work of compiling and answering criticism and comments unless they want to be overturned on judicial review. That will take some time as well. So far the first 45-day countdown has not yet begun.  So it is not unreasonable to expect some slippage in the timetable. He concludes: "People think this process is over, it has hardly begun. And donít forget, once the decisions are made the lawsuits start."
Twitter / @taosThe last publicly seen image of Chavez, taken at a hospital in Cuba.Today's press conference by Venezuelan Vice President Nicol√°s Maduro gave the impression that Hugo Chavez is on the brink of death. The Venezuelan President has been fighting an undisclosed type of pelvic cancer since at least June 30, 2011, and had come back from the illness to win re-election last year. Today, however, Maduro revealed that Chavez sicker than ever, with doctors were working around the clock to keep him alive. The big question is what actually happens to Venezuela if Chavez dies? Late last year Sean Burges, a senior associate in the Australian National Centre for Latin American Studies at the Australian National University, pointed to an article in the Venezuelan constitution that explains what should happen when a President dies. Burges writes: Article 232 of the Venezuelan constitution addresses two scenarios directly relevant to Ch√°vez‚Äôs illness. First, should an elected president become unable to take the oath of office to start their term, the constitution calls for a new presidential election. Second, new presidential elections must be held if a president dies, resigns or is fired from the presidency within the first four years of their term. While Chavez was apparently too ill to take his oath, Venezuela's court ruled he could skip it, ruling out an election earlier this year. However, if Chavez dies anytime soon, Article 323 says an election must take place within 30 days. That means Chavez's anointed heir, Maduro, will be President for less than a month before an election. If Maduro chooses to contest the election, it seems likely he would face opposition leader Henrique Capriles, a young, charismatic politician received 46 percent of the vote when he competed against Chavez in October. Many suspect, however, that Diosdado Cabello, speaker in Venezuela's congress and a hardline Chavez ally, may make a run for the presidency, forcing Chavez's United Socialist Party of Venezuela into conflict with itself. The worry is that without Chavez's cult of personality, Venezuelan politics will fall into chaos.¬†In a country with widespread corruption, a powerful military, and links to the drugs trade, this is especially scary. Even before October's election, there was widespread talk of an armed conflict if Chavez was not elected, and the country has growing currency and deficit issues that any new leader may find impossible to handle.
Earlier today the Dow industrials notched an all-time intraday high and now seem poised to exceed their record closing level of 14165 from October 2007. A record-setting stock market and an anemic economy? How does that make sense? Clearly Wall Street is all hopped up on ‚ÄúFed steroids‚Äù rather than fundamentals, says USA Today. Maybe not. Economist Mike Darda of MKM Partners notes that to reach a new high in inflation-adjusted terms, the Dow Jones industrial average would have to rise to 15,397.5, about 8% above its current level. More importantly, the Dow hasn‚Äôt ‚Äúreally climbed much relative to two important nominal aggregates: profits and the money stock,‚Äù as the next two charts show: AEIdeas He also notes there‚Äôs been¬†‚Äùa very tight linkage‚Äù between jobless claims and stock prices, showing the market is keying off fundamentals.
The CFA Institute of Chicago is holding an event today with some high-profile speakers including David Rosenberg, Lakshman Achuthan, Howard Lindzon, and one of our favorite finance bloggers Josh Brown. Brown is live-tweeting David Rosenberg's talk right now.¬† One of the big headlines is that Rosenberg is reiterating his call for gold to head to $3,000/oz. Here are some more tweet from Brown.¬† Follow @ReformedBroker for the live updates. @ReformedBroker
TheRealMichaelMoore / FlickrLast week's release of personal spending data revealed that spending rose 0.2 percent in February, at the same pace as in January. When adjusted for inflation, though, the data are less encouraging. In a note to clients, JPMorgan economist Robert Mellman declares that the "consumer spending slowdown is here," saying consumers are beginning to feel the effects of the payroll tax cut expiry and rising gas prices. Mellman writes: Slowdown in consumer spending has arrived: The first-round effects of the tax increases should mainly affect consumer spending, and the forecast looks for real consumer spending to slow to only 1.0% growth at a seasonally adjusted monthly rate this quarter. This forecast appears to be tracking. Real consumer rose only 0.1% at a seasonally adjusted annualized rate in January following a downward-revised 0.1% increase in December as well. Moreover, the tentative forecast looks for real consumer spending to decline 0.3% in March. Nominal consumer spending does not appear to have cracked in February. At least this is the message from unit auto sales, which rose to a 15.4 million pace. But real spending in February will be depressed by a high inflation reading. The PCE price index for February appears to have increased 0.5% (and the CPI 0.7%), reflecting the increase in the price of gasoline. The chart below provides a nice visual summary of what Mellman sees happening right now: BEA, J.P. Morgan On the other hand, Mellman points out that other economic indicators, like business investment, housing, and manufacturing, are all looking pretty good. Consumer spending ñ not so much.
Wikimedia CommonsMarissa Mayer's decision to end Yahoo's remote work program has ignited a debate about the benefits and pitfalls of letting people work from home. Now, Best Buy, another struggling giant, is following suit.¬† The Star Tribune reports that the company announced Monday that they were ending their Results Only Work Environment program (ROWE) where employees were evaluated only on results rather than time worked. Corporate employees could work when and wherever they wanted, as long as the job got done. Now, Thomas Lee reports, the majority of workers will be required to work a standard 40 hour week, though managers have discretion to allow certain exceptions. The policy applied only to corporate staff, not store employees. Like at Yahoo, there's a new CEO in town, Hubert Joly, who is under immense pressure to turn the company around and reform a dysfunctional culture.¬† Though the timing will inevitably connect Mayer and Joly, the move looks like it has been in the works for some time. Joly told the Star Tribune that the ROWE program was "fundamentally flawed from a leadership standpoint" in an article that appeared on February 16.¬† Best Buy management gives the same justification Yahoo has, that they need everyone in the office as they try to turn the company around:¬† ‚ÄúIt makes sense to consider not just what the results are but how the work gets done,‚Äù said Best Buy spokesman Matt Furman. ‚ÄúBottom line, it‚Äôs ‚Äòall hands on deck‚Äô at Best Buy and that means having employees in the office as much as possible to collaborate and connect on ways to improve our business.‚Äù It may be an unintended consequence, but Joly's involved himself in a debate about flexible work as well. Best Buys' particularly liberal policy was heavily publicized in the past, and it's a big shift to do away with it entirely.¬† The two Best Buy employees who came up with the ROWE program in the first place, Cali Ressler and Jody Thompson, have since opened a consulting firm ¬†based on the practice. In a blog post on their website, they harshly criticized Joly's decision:¬† "When we heard the news, we weren't surprised; as new management came on board over the past few years - management that obviously favors managing schedules over managing performance - the stronghold of outdated thinking became the weed that choked the evolution of the most enviable, productive, attractive and globally-forward workforce of the future.¬†¬†So we think it's unfortunate, if not downright silly,¬†that Best Buy has made the decision to discontinue operating as a¬†Results-Only Work Environment¬†(ROWE) for corporate employees. They are sending a clear message that they are more concerned with having leadership excel at monitoring the hallways, rather than building a leadership team that excels at defining clear, measurable results, and holding people accountable for achieving those results. While we agree that Best Buy must take drastic measures to turn their business around, moving back to a 20th century, paternalistic 'command and control' environment is most certainly¬†not¬†the answer..." Work at Best Buy? Contact me at mnisen@businessinsider.com, or our retail editor, Kim Bhasin, at¬†kbhasin@businessinsider.com
The FBI will join the SEC in investigating high frequency trading technology for potential market manipulation, the FT reports. The two agencies have had success working together before. Over the last 3 and a half years, they've managed 80 successful insider trading prosecutions. But this this issue is much more complicated that who knows what. Now the two agencies will be dealing in dark pools, private exchanges where investors trade blindly with one another, and hedge funds and other firms that use complex, super fast algorithmic codes to execute their trades. From FT: The SEC‚Äôs Quantitative Analysis Unit is focusing on the emergence of high-frequency trading firms and the rise of dark pools. Traders using these methods can manipulate the market by flooding it with quotes, known as quote stuffing, or placing millions of orders that are quickly cancelled, to drive others to trade in ways that benefit their position, a practice known as layering... Authorities are exploring potential holes in the system, including new algorithms referred to as ‚Äúnews aggregation‚Äù which search the internet, news sites and social media for selected keywords, and fire off orders in milliseconds. The trades are so quick, often before the information is widely disseminated, that authorities are debating whether they violate insider trading rules, the people familiar with the matter said. Authorities are also monitoring alpha capture systems, platforms where sell-side firms share information with buyside professionals, for potential front running or insider trading. Also on their radar is artificial intelligence trading, an algorithm that predicts market reactions based on history. This is something critics of HFT have talked about for some time. Since the 2010 Flash Crash, when the stock market lost 9% of its value in moments, investors of all sizes have been concerned that trades are moving too fast. To learn more about how HFT firms could manipulate the market, click here&gt;
www.youtube.comYesterday, Forbes released its annual Billionaires List. The list is really a tracker of who runs the global economy. Investors take a stake in the economy and watch their ideas turn into money. So consider this list we've put together of the 92 richest investors in the world, a survey of who really gets it.
A YouTube video¬†that went viral this weekend¬†shows that Americans radically underestimate income disparity in the U.S. The video, created by user¬†politizane, displays graphics made from data in¬†a Harvard Business School survey¬†that asked more than 5,000 Americans how they thought wealth is distributed in the U.S. and what the ideal distribution is, then compared those answers to what it actually looks like. The study found that¬†the top 1 percent (of Occupy Wall Street infamy) "has more of the country's wealth than nine out of ten Americans believe the entire top 20 percent should have." YouTube/politizane Politizane¬†presents the distribution in a way that makes the study's findings astoundingly clear. The video takes America's $54 trillion in wealth (as of 2009) and distributes it to the¬†entire U.S. population, represented as 100 people in a line. For example, this is what socialism would look like:YouTube/politizane ¬†Here's what most Americans believe is ideal:YouTube/Politizane What Americans think the reality is:YouTube/politizane And what distribution actually is (Note: the 97-99 percentiles didn't even fit on this chart, while the top 1 percent had to be divided into ten columns): YouTube/Politizane Politizane¬†points out that the top 1 percent own 40 percent of U.S. wealth, takes home nearly a quarter (24 percent) of the national income, and owns half of the country's stocks bonds and mutual funds. Meanwhile¬†the bottom 80 percent own just 7 percent of America's wealth, while the average worker has to work for a month to earn what the CEO makes in an hour. The video concludes that "all we need to do is wake up and realize that the reality in this country is not at all what we think it is." Check it out: 
The April issue of†Vanity Fair†hits newsstands tomorrow.† We're excited because we can't wait to read Bill Cohan's feature on the hedge fund war between Bill Ackman and Daniel Loeb and Carl Icahn.† We've already seen the sneak peak about that Hamptons bike ride with Loeb last summer that totally destroyed Ackman. Basically, the anecdote Cohan shares made Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square, look overly confident and that he thinks he's always right. Those are major reasons why some people in the hedge fund community dislike him.† There's supposed to be some juicy tid-bits about the friendships between these hedge fund titans.† We can't wait to read it.†
Weather.comA big storm is currently covering Chicago in wet snow, and could make its way to major cities in the Northeast later this week.¬† Because it's March, it's likely the snow will be heavy and wet, which could mean wide-spread power outages as downed trees take out power lines. There will probably be tons of flight delays and cancellations out of Washington-Dulles and Reagan National airports. Forecasters aren't sure how much snow will accumulate in D.C. ‚Äî the city could end up just getting rain ‚Äî or where the snow will land in the Northeast. It should be light in New York City and Philadelphia, starting Wednesday night. In Boston and the rest of New England, the snow will start Thursday and linger into Friday. Because the storm is slow moving, it may cause some beach damage in Plum Island, Mass. and Sea Bright, N.J. Here are the warnings and watches in effect: National Weather Service
Goldman Sachs' equity strategy team just released its Monthly Chartbook. In it, the analysts give a ranking of a variety of indices that cover an array of investment strategies and asset classes that have and haven't been working this year. Most indices listed in Goldman's chart have either been up or flat since the beginning of the year. But one loser stands out: gold. Goldman Sachs
John Paulson's Gold Fund is down 10% year to date, according to CNBC's Kate Kelly, this after dismal performance in 2011 and 2012. Although it's true that gold has not done so hot of late, it's still had an amazing run over the last several years. So what happened? Kelly explained. "The irony is that Paulson's been absolutely right about gold from April 2009 when he first put his trade on to now the yellow metal is up more than 70%," Kelly reported. "But Paulson has never dealt with physical gold as part of his trade. He's focused instead on mining and production stocks primarily, and that's where the pain has been. Looking at a basket of 6 key holdings that he's had, their down an average 32% since he bought. The only one... that's in the black is Rand Gold Resources that's up 1%..." Kelly added that Paulson has no intention of closing down the $900 million Gold Fund, he's now presenting it to investors as a 'Black Swan' option in case inflation hits.
David Cannon/Getty ImagesErnesto Bertarelli is the wealthiest person in SwitzerlandThere are more billionaires than ever this year, with a record total net-worth of $5.4 trillion, according to Forbes' new billionaires list. But even if you cannot be the richest person in the world, it is still pretty cool to be the richest person in your country. Many billionaires have held the title of richest in their country for a number of years, but as always, there are a number of new titleholders this year.
Earlier today, the Dow Jones Industrial Average hit an all-time high. Some pundits criticize the Dow for being a price-weighted index of 30 randomly selected stocks. But the haters probably aren't considering this hilarious Dow Jones personification put together by the humorists at FunnyOrDie. "The Dow always goes back up for the ladies," says the narrator. Check out the trailer here: 
Last month, Wall Street recruiting firm OneWire set up an awesome, exclusive video series with Wall Street's leaders called Open Door. CEO Skiddy von Stade managed to sit down with some of the biggest names in finance and get them to spill about their careers, how they work and what motivates them. The newest interview on the site is with none other than alternative asset management firm Blackstone Group's COO, Tony James. "I went to Harvard College and determined right away when I was a junior that I was unemployable since I think I applied to 300 jobs and didn't get any of them so I decided that I would stay in school and go to Harvard Business school and that's my background," said James. James goes on to talk about his early career at smaller firms where he could build things in a dynamic, hungry environment. "My advice to young people is to get something that's growing because that's how you get career opportunities thrown at you that you don't deserve, if you will... that come at you early because the firms need you." James said. "There's boundless opportunities and there's things you can grab." Check out the full video below: 
Here's a crazy chart: The price of Bitcoins (the digital currency). (Via Sara Eisen and @Fullcarry) bitcoincharts.com It kind of resembles a very long-term look at gold. FRED Two quick thoughts:
Wade Shephard for Vagabond JourneyFollowing a recent 60 Minutes report on China's empty "ghost cities", we've been thinking a lot about how some of China's grand construction projects have fallen flat. One of the greatest examples of this overarching ambitious might be that of the New South China Mall, located in Dongguan,†China. The mall was opened in 2005 and was heralded as the largest shopping center in the world with 659,612 square meters (7,100,000 sq ft) of space. According to CNN, the owners expected 100,000 visitors a day. That didn't happen. According to a report last year from Emporis, a global building data firm, the mall is virtually empty. "It has been classified as a 'dead mall'", the report states. An employee CNN spoke to claimed the mall had 20% occupancy. One of the relatively few people who has visited the mall is journalist and explorer Wade Shepard, who published a great essay on the empty mall earlier this year at his website Vagabond Journey. Wade has kindly allowed us to publish his photos with some of his comments here to give you a taste of China's "Ghost Mall".
As Apple's share price sinks to lower lows, most analysts covering the company continue to be extremely optimistic. Goldman Sachs analyst Bill Shope has a $660 price target on the stock and he says it's a "buy." In fact, at Goldman Sachs, Apple is the most undervalued stock of the ones covered by Goldman's analysts. Goldman's David Kostin recently published a list of 40 stocks with the most upside opportunity relative to the Goldman analyst price targets. Here's the top 7. Goldman Sachs
Economists warn that the U.S. economy could be heading toward one of two catastrophes: the two-decade long stagnation that has befallen Japan, or the hyperinflation that struck Zimbabwe and the Weimar Republic.† Such cautionary tales alert policymakers to the failed efforts of their predecessors.† But the most relevant comparison is rarely cited ñ to Great Britain in the 1920s, as depicted in the highly popular PBS series Downton Abbey. While Downton Abbeyís plot focuses on the interpersonal relationships of the fictional Yorkshire country estate where the period drama is set, a subplot illustrates the crisis that Great Britain faced in the interwar period.† Season three, which is currently airing, depicts the struggles of the agricultural workers whose labor economically supports the estate. Great Britain entered the Great Depression in the 1920s, a decade before the rest of the world.† The county faced high unemployment and depressed domestic consumption.† Sterlingís status as the reserve currency was the overarching cause of Britainís economic problems.† As I will illustrate, the parallels to the U.S. today and the dollarís reserve-currency status are numerous and include high unemployment, slow economic growth and low interest rates. The comparison between interwar Great Britain and the U.S. today was first explained to me in an interview with Columbia professor Bruce Greenwald.† Greenwald and his co-author Judd Kahn elaborate on the analogy in their book, Globalization: The Irrational Fear that Someone in China will Take Your Job.† Michael Pettis, a professor at Peking University, has a new book, The Great Rebalancing, which further explores the role of reserve currencies. Letís look first at the role reserve-currency status plays in a countryís economy.† Iíll then turn to the comparison to Britain in the 1920s, and then to what this means for the U.S. today. The exorbitant burden Pundits and economists obsess over budget deficits, sequestration, the debt ceiling and quantitative easing.† But, as Pettis explains, ìthe source of the global crisis through which we are living can be found in the great trade and capital flow imbalances of the past decade or two.î The dollarís status as the reserve currency has driven those imbalances.† The dollar is the primary currency held by foreign central banks and institutions to settle international transactions. Because dollars are so widely held, there is a persistent structural demand for them.† This forces the value of the dollar higher relative to other currencies.† Indeed, despite several rounds of quantitative easing ñ which many warned would weaken the dollar ñ its value relative to a trade-weighted basket of foreign currencies is the same as it was at the onset of the financial crisis. This is because Americaís trading partners ñ including China, Europe and Japan ñ have employed similar policies of quantitative easing, offsetting actions by the Fed that would have otherwise weakened the dollar.† Those countries run trade surpluses, and as Greenwald and Kahn explained in their book, it is always the surplus countries that control global trade and currency values.† To maintain reserve-currency status, the Fed must act cautiously and responsibly, whereas the surplus countries can devalue more aggressively. Reserve currency status has been called an ìexorbitant privilegeî ñ a term coined in 1965 by Valery Giscard díEstaing, then Franceís minister of finance and economic affairs, according to Pettis.† Giscard díEstaing was referring to Americaís ability to finance a high level of internal consumption with a seemingly limitless capacity to issue debt. But Pettis argues that a more appropriate term would be an ìexorbitant burden.î †Because our trading partners are accumulating dollars, the U.S. must run a current-account deficit.† U.S. demand exceeds production, with imports making up the difference.† U.S. manufacturers are penalized by the overvaluation of the dollar, are forced to contract and unemployment rises.† Our large trade deficit flows directly from our reserve-currency status, as does our low savings rate and high levels of private and public debt. ìConsuming beyond your means, it seems, is not much of a blessing,î Pettis wrote.† ìAnd why should it be?† Allowing excessive foreign purchases of its bonds requires often that the reserve currency choose between rising unemployment and rising debt.î Like Britain in the 1920s, the U.S. today faces both burdens. The Great Britain of Downton Abbey Britain achieved reserve-currency status around 1870 as a result of its leadership in the Industrial Revolution. The nationís economic downfall began after World War I.† Letís look at some of the key economic themes of Britain at the time and their parallels to the U.S. today. Britainís economy collapsed almost immediately after the end of the war. In a counterpart to the U.S. economy during the financial crisis, the British economy contracted from 1919 to 1921, with real GDP decreasing by 9.9%, 7.8% and 10.1% annually in those years.† Britain faced the same dilemma as rest of the world during the Great Depression.† Productivity rose in its agricultural sector ñ Downtonís farmers ñ due to the advances of the Industrial Revolution. †Fewer workers could produce the same amount of goods.† Today, the U.S. economy faces the same situation in its manufacturing sector, which has shrunk to 9% of its economy thanks to post-World War II productivity increases.† Higher productivity naturally leads to higher unemployment. Read the rest of this post at AdvisorPerspectives &gt;
The Daily ShowThere's been some rumbling in Washington about Too Big To Fail (TBTF) lately, mostly stemming from Elizabeth Warren's cross-examination of Ben Bernanke, and some new anti-TBTF bipartisan legislation presented on the floor of the Senate last week. Consequently "The Daily Show"†took a stab at the topic late last week in a segment on mergers and†acquisitions. The segment mostly crashed and burned. It opens with a montage of clips from financial media about "Merger Mania" ó the idea that†Warren Buffett's Heinz deal, Michael Dell's announcement that he wants to take Dell private, Office Depot's merger with Office Max, the American Airlines merger with US Airways, and more, signal that the M&amp;A market is back. Stewart points out that in the 1980s M&amp;A deals weren't always good for the economy. "These mergers aren't good for the economy so why are these financial reporters...so excited about these mergers?" Stewart asked. John Hodgeman dressed in 1980s style, Gordon Gekko getup, helps him out. "Why would they put themselves in the position that by merging with other companies they become so big...too big... so big that they don't operate efficiently..." Stewart muses. "Too big to fail," Hodgeman interrupts. "Too big to fail, it's like the rich man's YOLO." It's a good line but it has nothing to do with some of the deals Stewart mentioned, our current M&amp;A market, or the connection between corporate America and Wall Street banks. The merger between American Airlines and US Airways has been discussed for a long time. Heinz was a value acquisition by two of the richest men on the planet ó Jorge Lemann and Warren Buffett ó who do deals regardless of the economic climate. Office Max and Office Depot are companies with the same struggling business model. Finally, Michael Dell has contemplated taking his company private for years. These are separate deals that may not even signal the M&amp;A market is back. That in itself is something up for debate. There are many reasons why these companies are merging ó dismal business models, low interest rates, what have you ó but TBTF isn't one of them. Watch the clip below (The Daily Show via Bing): 
‚ÄúThe Cavaliere paid me,‚Äù he told La Stampa nonchalantly about the ‚Ç¨3 million he‚Äôd received. ‚ÄúOf course I took the money, as I clarified to the prosecutors,‚Äù he said. Utterly frustrated with this sort of daily display of corruption in their country, 8.7 million angry Italians from all walks of life voted for Beppe Grillo‚Äôs 5-Star movement. While 25.5% of the popular vote isn‚Äôt nearly enough to govern without being part of a coalition, which he has so far rejected, it‚Äôs enough to give the political establishment conniptions‚Äîand show that anger and frustration finally count. ‚ÄúThe existing political class must be expelled immediately,‚Äù Grillo told the New York Times. Hence his refusal to form a coalition. He wants the political system to collapse. From it, he‚Äôd construct ‚Äúsomething new,‚Äù something truly democratic. ‚ÄúWe can change everything in the hands of respectable people,‚Äù he explained. But wasn‚Äôt it reckless to try to destroy the system? ‚ÄúHow can we be accused of destroying something that‚Äôs already destroyed?‚Äù he asked. ‚ÄúThey‚Äôve devoured the country, and now they can‚Äôt govern.‚Äù He called Berlusconi of the right-leaning PDL a ‚Äúpsycho dwarf‚Äù and Pier Luigi Bersani, the top honcho of the left-leaning Democratic Party, ‚Äúa dead man walking.‚Äù Italy‚Äôs political system would collapse, he told the German online magazine Focus. ‚ÄúI give the old parties six months, and then it‚Äôs over.‚Äù In the subsequent elections, the 5-Star movement could get enough votes to govern‚Äîand to clean house. He also demanded the renegotiation of Italy‚Äôs debt. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre being crushed, not by the euro, but by our debt.‚Äù A government is like a corporation that goes bankrupt. Investors are simply ‚Äúout of luck.‚Äù They took a risk and lost, he said, having earned a degree in accounting. And if the conditions aren‚Äôt changed, he added, Italy would leave the euro and return to the Lira. Then he was talking with the tabloid Bild, the largest circulation paper in Germany‚Äîhe‚Äôd become an equal opportunity mainstream-media darling. The Bild pushed him about Merkel‚Äôs demand that Italy continue on Prime Minister Mario Monti‚Äôs path of reforms and austerity. He brushed it off. What Monti had done wasn‚Äôt real austerity, he said. ‚ÄúInstead of taking something from the already privileged, particularly politicians, he helped himself to the savings of families who now, without this money, no longer know how they can go on.‚Äù Himself ‚Äúa convinced European,‚Äù he wants an online referendum on the euro. Though non-binding under Italian law, results would be difficult to ignore. ‚ÄúIn one year, we won‚Äôt have enough money to pay pensions and wages of those who work in the public sector.‚Äù One year! During the Focus interview the day before, it was half a year. But hey. It‚Äôs the principle that counts. He‚Äôd been lambasting the Italian political system and the established parties for years‚Äîand it has struck a chord with voters. As if to drive home the point, just after the election, Berlusconi‚Äôs corruption scandal bubbled to the surface with Sergio De Gregorio‚Äôs admission that ‚ÄúThe Cavaliere paid me,‚Äù underlined by, ‚ÄúOf course I took the money.‚Äù The Cavaliere allegedly funneled ‚Ç¨3 million to De Gregorio in 2006 to get him to switch parties, which resulted in the collapse of the center-left coalition government under Prime Minister Romano Prodi. In the subsequent election, Berlusconi won. Last Thursday, it seeped out that prosecutors in Naples were investigating Berlusconi and others for corruption and illegal financing of political parties. Prodi called it ‚Äúan assassination of democracy.‚Äù Gregorio told La Stampa that he‚Äôd decided to cooperate with prosecutors when it became clear to him that the new members of parliament, the Grillini, as the media dubbed them, were demanding a sort of ‚ÄúNuremberg for Politicians,‚Äù reminiscent of the Nuremberg Trials for the Nazis. ‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt want to go down in history as the senator who leaves the Palazzo Madama‚Äù‚Äîthe palace in Rome where the Senate meets‚Äî‚Äúin handcuffs.‚Äù De Gregorio isn‚Äôt exactly a paragon of innocence temporarily gone astray: he has been investigated in the past for money laundering and corruption. Suspicions are floating around that he is connected to the Mafia. But now he is afraid the new members of parliament might try to clean house. The 5-Star movement doesn‚Äôt have much of a structure yet, and no experienced MPs‚Äîthey, like their electorate, come from all walks of life and were picked during the primaries through internet voting. The movement might have trouble bringing down, as Grillo hopes, the political establishment that was designed to survive these kinds of democratic groundswells; it had been able to form governing coalitions before, even when election results were complicated. But alone the fact that the 5-Star movement gives De Gregorio and perhaps others visions of Nuremberg Trials for politicians is a glorious achievement. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm appalled that two clowns have won,‚Äù said the man who‚Äôd try to knock Merkel off her perch later this year. He was referring to former comedian Grillo and former Prime Minister Berlusconi. One of them is ‚Äúa professional clown who doesn‚Äôt mind being called that,‚Äù he explained; the other is ‚Äúa clown with special testosterone boost.‚Äù Read.... The Fragility Of The Eurozone: Even Democracy Is A¬†Threat.
Push to repeal the sequester (a reconciliation bill in the Senate would allow repeal with 51 votes, thereby putting pressure on House Republicans), and replace it with a ‚ÄúBuild America‚Äôs Future‚Äù Act that would close tax loopholes used by the wealthy, end corporate welfare, impose a small (1/10 of 1%) tax on financial transactions, and reduce the size of the military. Half the revenues would be used for deficit reduction, the other half for investments in our future through education (from early-childhood through affordable higher ed), infrastructure, and basic R&amp;D. Also included in that bill ‚Äî in order to make sure our future isn‚Äôt jeopardized by another meltdown of Wall Street ‚Äî would be a resurrection of Glass-Steagall and a limit on the size of the biggest banks.¬†I‚Äôd make clear to the American people that they made a choice in 2012 but that right-wing House Republicans have been blocking that choice, and the only way to implement that choice is for Congress to pass the Build America‚Äôs Future Act. If House Republicans still block it, I‚Äôd make 2014 a referendum on it and them, and do whatever I could to take back the House.¬†In short, the President must reframe the public debate around the future of the country and the investments we must make together in that future, rather than austerity economics. And focus on good jobs and broad-based prosperity rather than prosperity for a few and declining wages and insecurity for the many. Read more posts on Contributor ¬ª
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithThe IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index fell 10.8 percent in March to 42.2, down from 47.3 in February. A reading below 50 indicates net pessimism. "Americans across-the-board think that the economic outlook is grim,"†said Raghavan Mayur, president of TIPP. "The big slide in our economic outlook sub-index perhaps signals a turning point and an impending entry into a recession. This month sixty percent believe that the economy is in a recession." The index has three key components and all of them decline in March. Consumers have been hit by higher taxes, and the "cynical manipulation and exaggeration of the impacts of the sequester in Washington". The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index is considered a good leading indicators to other consumer confidence indicators like University of Michigan consumer confidence.
AP ImagesMedia-shy billionaire hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller made headlines last Friday when he spoke with Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle about a "storm" he sees coming.† Druckenmiller, who accurately called the housing crisis, sees another crisis coming due to entitlement transfers. Basically, he thinks that the seniors in this country are stealing from the young and that could result in a crisis worse than in 2008.† Druckenmiller is one of the best performing hedge fund managers of all time with only one down year.† Now let's get to know him better.†
Compensation numbers were announced at the end of last month, but according to Bloomberg, there are still numbers to read between the lines at Citigroup. Donal Griffin and Michael Moore report that executives will also take home up to $579 million on top of their regular compensation packages under an executive profit sharing plan, part of which was voted down by Citi shareholders. This after a rough February when shareholders seemed distraught by the $11.5 million pay package Citi announced new CEO Michael Corbat would be taking home. They've been agitating about executive compensation since last April when they voted against then-CEO Vikram Pandit's $15 million pay package. The votes are non-binding, but they still send a message. From Bloomberg: The lender booked a $246 million expense in 2012 tied to the plans, adding to $285 million for the previous year and $48 million in 2010, according to regulatory filings. Competitors of the New York-based bank said they didnít make similar awards, which are on top of annual salaries and bonuses... The Key Employee Profit Sharing Plans, or KEPSPs, cover Citigroupís performance from 2010 to 2012. The bank will pay two-thirds of the awards by March 15 while executives must wait until 2014 for the rest, according to filings. Consumer banking head Manuel Medina-Mora, 62, will get about $8.8 million under the 2011 plan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chief Financial Officer John Gerspach, 59, will receive about $5.7 million and Alberto Verme, 55, chairman of banking in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, about $7.5 million, the data show. Michael Corbat, who was named chief executive officer last year, will get about $7.6 million under a separate 2010 plan, according to the data. Let's see how shareholders take this the next time they get together. Head to Bloomberg for more details on the plan&gt;
The country is gorgeous, and the climate can be excellent. There are plenty of cooling breezes to keep it comfortable year-round, despite the tropical location. And during the dry season, the country is bathed in constant sunshine. The higher altitudes on the slopes of the mountains and volcanoes that surround the central valley sport microclimates with verdant green pastures and dairy cows. It‚Äôs reminiscent of Switzerland. Unfortunately, the political and economic climate in Costa Rica is not as ideal. What was formerly a relatively free, inexpensive, low-tax jurisdiction has veered sharply to the left. As with so many governments around the world that have made unrealistic promises to their citizens to buy their way into office, the government in Costa Rica is struggling to pay its bills. For example, the government has a new ‚ÄúSolidarity Tax,‚Äù otherwise referred to as the ‚Äúluxury home tax.‚Äù This so-called ‚Äòspecial purpose‚Äô tax is earmarked specifically for cleaning up the slums in the capital San Jose. But you can be sure the government has been dipping freely into the money for other things. The rules surrounding this tax are complex. But in general, any residential property with an assessed construction cost and land value of about US$230,000 or more gets hit. Conveniently, the government just raised the construction cost schedule on which it bases its appraisals from 2007 prices to 2013 prices ‚Äî an increase of somewhere between 50% and 75%. And as property prices are so high in Costa Rica now, you don‚Äôt need to have a ‚Äúluxury‚Äù property at all to get caught up in this tax net. One German retiree I played golf with said he‚Äôll be voting with his feet and relocating to Curacao in the Netherlands Antilles later this year. I asked him whether the cost of living there would not be much higher, and he replied that for someone like him, with European tastes, it was actually cheaper than Costa Rica now, since many foods, such as dairy products, are imported on favorable terms from Holland. All in all, Costa Rica is a pleasant enough place to spend time. But as residents will tell you, it‚Äôs becoming a difficult place to live and do business. There‚Äôs good news from all of this, though. Costa Rica is a tiny country. They cannot conjure money out of thin air without consequences. There is no multi-trillion dollar debt market here. So unlike the US and Europe, Costa Rica cannot keep the party going forever. At some point soon, the government balance sheet will hit rock bottom, and they‚Äôll be forced to make a change for the better. Small countries can turn on a dime. With the right policies in place, they can go from rags to riches quickly (Estonia is a great example). And I suspect that, soon, Costa Rica will re-adopt pro-business, pro-foreign policies from decades ago that made it such a great place to be. Until next time, Tim Staermose, Chief Investment Strategist Sovereign Man Read more posts on Sovereign Man ¬ª
Comedy CentralThe Daily Show's Jon Stewart blasted Congress for failing to avert the forced spending cuts known as the sequester, calling it "[expletive] incompetent" for letting the "mutual ball punch" that is the sequester go into effect. Stewart flashed back to November 2011, when Congress called the sequester "painful" and President Barack Obama said flatly that it "would not happen." "It's as likely as Dennis Rodman being our chief envoy to North Korea," Stewart quipped, referring to Rodman's bizarre trip last week. But it happened, Stewart said, "because Congress, in its infinite wisdom, forgot just how [expletive] incompetent they really are."† Stewart also blasted the media for giving more attention to Obama's Star Wars-Star Trek mix-up, which Stewart said was a mess-up of two completely made-up things. But the media†almost ignored House Speaker John Boehner's statement that taxation was like stealing, which Stewart said "reflected a deep misunderstanding of the United States Constitution." "The Speaker of the House said taxing people is stealing!" Stewart yelled. "Tip to cable news ó if there's anything you don't need to fact check, it's Star Wars or Star Trek." Watch the clips below, courtesy of Comedy Central: The Daily Show with Jon StewartGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,Political Humor &amp; Satire Blog,The Daily Show on Facebook The Daily Show with Jon StewartGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,Political Humor &amp; Satire Blog,The Daily Show on Facebook
Right now the Drudge Report is linking to a bombshell survey that finds 1 in 10 Yale students say they have been paid for sex. Drudge Report That link goes to a College Fix story that reports on a recent survey on the sex lives of Yale students, but that link appears to have gone down after traffic from Drudge. However, a Yale Daily News story about the survey is still up, and it contains some interesting results from the survey: The Yale Daily News story, a blog post written by Cynthia Hua, goes on to describes the survey in some detail, explaining that it was part of Saturday workshop event designed to explore masochistic sexual practices such as those depicted in ‚Äú50 Shades of Grey.‚Äù During the event around 40 students were asked to fill out an anonymous survey by ‚Äúsexologist‚Äù Jill McDevitt. While we don't know the exact number of particpants, that small sample size means that around 4 people must have said they had been paid for sex, while just 1 admitted to bestiality. It seems that around 8 students said they had never had sex, around 3 had filmed themselves, and around 20 had engaged with consensual pain. Also, this is a self-selecting group. We highly doubt that McDevitt intended it to be viewed as a scientific survey. So, we apologize, but we cannot confirm that 1 in 10 Yale students have been paid for sex at this time.
Nationwide home prices, including distressed sales, climbed 9.7 percent year-over-year (YoY) in January, according to CoreLogic's latest home price report. This is the eleventh straight monthly rise, and it's the biggest gain since April 2006. On the month, home prices were up 0.7 percent. Ex-distressed sales, home prices were up 9 percent on the year, and 1.8 percent on the month. ‚ÄúThe HPI showed strong growth during the typically slow winter season,‚Äù said Mark Fleming, chief economist for CoreLogic. ‚ÄúWith these gains, the housing market is poised to enter the spring selling season on sound footing.‚Äù Paul Diggle at Capital Economics thinks that concerns of "overstretched" home prices are overblown since housing is still "20 percent undervalued relative to incomes and 5 percent undervalued relative to rents". "Indeed, with only 4.6 months of supply of unsold stock on the market in January, well below the long-run average of 7 months, we expect near double-digit gains in prices until at least the middle of the year," he adds. Here are some details from the report: Here is the trajectory of home prices since 2002:CoreLogic
AP ImagesWe just got a strong reading from the ISM services report. According to Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus we just got the "all clear" sign for the economy. His email to clients was "ISM New Orders Gives The 'All Clear.'" He writes: Key component of the ISM data at 10am today was †the "new Orders" index - Last month the ìnew Ordersî index fell to 54.4 from 58.3. That was the weakest reading since April. After 41 months in a row in expansion territory, another sharp drop would be an ominous sign (Attached SPX overlay) ñ The New Orders Index just came in at 58.2 †- just off 1Y highs. For more on the ISM report, see here &gt;
The Dow Jones Industrial Average just hit its nominal all-time high. But the gold bugs will be quick to remind you that it's nowhere near its all-time high when you price it in gold. Here's a chart from King World News.¬† The blue line is the Dow priced in gold. Click here if you want to know what that green line is about. King World News
ISM's February non-manufacturing survey is out. The headline index rose to 56.0 from 55.2 last month. Economists predicted that the index would moderate slightly to 55.0. The gains were led by the inventories sub-index, which rose to 54.0 from 47.0, and the backlog of orders sub-index, which rose to 54.5 from 49.0. The new export orders sub-index also posted strong gains, rising to 60.5 from 55.5, while the new orders sub-index advanced to 58.2 from 54.4 last month. Below is a breakdown of the sub-indices: ISM Below is what respondents to the survey are saying: Click here for the full release &gt; ¬†
Despite the news, we‚Äôve seen higher levels of hiring activity than ever at TheLadders. As I mentioned last week when I shared 100 of the most recent hires made on TheLadders, we‚Äôve got more HR Professionals and Executive Recruiters active on our website than ever before in our history. And with that, here are fifty of our employers that are looking to hire professionals like you right now‚Ä¶ MicrosoftPwCCitiCapital OneADPVerizonIntelAmazonBaxterCSCMetlifeChryslerHome DepotKforce Inc.Level 3 CommunicationsNuanceSears Holdings Management CorporationCoventry Health CareGentiva Health ServicesEmeritus Senior LivingLife TechnologiesHPGentivaUnitedHealth GroupArrow ElectronicsAmerigroupPacific Dental ServicesTechprosAvanadeCVS CaremarkLucas GroupQuintilesUnisysUSAAPitney BowesAon HewittIngram MicroFinancial Services CompanyCrowe HorwathJohnson Controls, IncAmeripriseCompliance Search GroupRGPNovo NordiskUPSVisiting Nurse Service of New YorkEverbankKellogg CompanyLivingSocialGentiva Health You might ask: how can that be? With the unemployment rate still so high for this point in a recovery, and the discouragement rate even higher, how can it be that so many companies are hiring so many people? Well, it‚Äôs two things, Readers. First off, you have to remember that most hiring is replacement hiring. It‚Äôs not companies saying that they‚Äôre going to grow their workforce by leaps and bounds, rather, it‚Äôs companies replacing routine attrition that occurs as employees flow in and out of any organization. Think of it this way. Even though the level in your bank account probably doesn‚Äôt change too much in a particular year, and you may be more or less happy with where it is, a lot of new dollars come into your account each year from your current job. And then those dollars go out as expenses. So the vast majority of activity in your bank account is the addition of dollars to replace the ones you‚Äôve already spent, even if the overall level stays about the same. Same thing in the employment market. We may be more or less happy with the overall rate of employment or unemployment, but the changeover from new employees coming in and old employees going out is far, far more important to your job search than the overall level. Therefore: most hiring is replacement hiring. Which means that most companies are hiring all the time. Second, some companies are always expanding. There are always sectors of the economy that are growing while others shrink. As an example, if your company has anything to do with Apple Inc. right now, you‚Äôre growing. And that‚Äôs whether or not your company has anything to do whatsoever with technology. If you sell cardboard boxes to Apple, you‚Äôre growing. If you sell real estate maintenance to Apple, you‚Äôre growing. If you sell the little plastic biodegradable forks that the geniuses who design iPads use to eat their arugula salads at their gorgeous headquarters‚Ä¶ guess what? ‚Ä¶you‚Äôre growing. So part of the job search is figuring out where‚Äôs the growth and where‚Äôs the shrink, and allocating your time accordingly. With that, I‚Äôll wish you the best of luck in your search this week, Readers! I‚Äôll be rooting for you. Read more posts on TheLadders ¬ª
Martha Stewart is testifying in court today to explain why her contract to sell stuff at JCPenney doesn't violate her existing contract with Macy's.† Stewart's motive for alienating Macy's is simple: Ron Johnson said in an email that she could earn $500 million if the deal went well.† Johnson made it clear that he needed JCPenney to execute a turnaround of his brand. Losing the line would be a devastating blow to an already-struggling retailer.† Macy's, which has had a deal with Stewart for several years, sued her company for breach of contract shortly after she announced the JCPenney line. The department store also sued competitor JCPenney.† Here's what's at stake for the three biggest players in the trial:† Martha Stewart: Stewart is insisting on selling the JCPenney line because she "needs the money," Bloomberg reported last year.† Revenues at Martha Stewart Living have been falling for three years. In exchange for the Stewart line, JCPenney made a hefty stock investment in Martha Stewart Omnimedia and revitalized the company's finances.† Stewart is expected to argue that JCPenney's shop-in-shops mean that the brand is more of a boutique than her collaboration with Macy's. She's also argued that the more widespread her name is, the better the value of her brand.† Therefore, Stewart argues that JCPenney collaboration could benefit Macy's.† Ron Johnson:†Astrid Stawiarz/Getty Images The Martha Stewart line was the first high-profile announcement that Johnson made as CEO and is tied to his success as a leader.† He made it clear in testimony last week that his company needed Martha Stewart.† "Martha could be the foundation of a reinvented home," Johnson wrote in the email. "Macy's deal is key. We need to find a way to break the renewal right. Martha Stewart's appeal would revamp JCPenney's stale home goods section. Her popularity with millennials could bring a younger audience to JCPenney.†Stewart's line could provide JCPenney with a much-needed boost after it announced that sales were down 32 percent.† It's likely that Johnson and JCPenney calculated the risks and costs of a Macy's lawsuit, but took the risk in favor of a line that could potentially be worth billions, Bloomberg reported.† Terry Lundgren:†GD Noticias The Macy's CEO said that his company took a risk on Stewart, who approached the department store about a line shortly after she was released from prison.† Macy's claims exclusivity in certain product categories, including cookware and bedding. Macy's CEO†Terry Lundgren told†the New York State Court in Manhattan that her deal with JCPenney ended their friendship.† "I was completely shocked and blown away," Lundgren said. "I was literally sick to my stomach." Stewart's contract with Macy's was just renewed last year and will expire in 2018.† "We're here to protect our rights. Rights that we paid for. Rights that we worked on. Rights that we took tremendous risks for," Macy's attorney Theodore Grossman told the courts according to Reuters.†
The opening bell just rang in New York, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average just passed its all-time closing and intraday highs. Right now, the index is trading north of 14,210. The record closing high, set on October 9, 2007, was 14,164.53. If the index holds its gains today, a new record will be set at the closing bell. The Dow's previous all-time intraday high was 14,198.10, also set in October 2007. Below is the chart: Bloomberg, Business Insider
AP ImagesYesterday, Warren Buffett appeared on CNBC's Squawk on the Street with Becky Quick. During the program, the Oracle of Omaha recommended that the average investor buy an index fund and lock it away for a few years. The think behind this is that most active investors, or those who try to beat the market, usually end up underperforming the market. Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services' Director of Floor Operations, thinks Buffett is sending a mixed message by making this type of recommendation. You see, Buffett employs at least two people ‚Äî Todd Combs and Ted Weschler ‚Äî who actively manage tons of money for Berkshire Hathaway. And while Buffett reports that they outperformed the markets last year, surely he can't expect them to outperform forever. Right? From this morning's Cashin's Comments: Do As I Say‚Ä¶. ‚Äì Becky Quick had another top of the game interview with Warren Buffett on Squawkbox yesterday.¬† While it normally doesn't require water-boarding to get the Oracle of Omaha to talk, Becky, as a consummate professional, consistently and charmingly draws out follow-up on key topics, helping the viewer better understand the points being made.¬† It was a terrific, information-filled three hours. It was not fully consistent, however.¬† At one point Warren suggested that the public might be well-served to buy an ETF index fund product, put it in a drawer and pretend the market was closed for the next five years or so.¬† The theory being that the inevitable improvement in the U.S. economy would lift stocks and, thus, the value of your ETF. In the same interview, Mr. Buffett allowed as how he was going to give two in-house money managers about 25% more money to manage (about a billion dollars or so).¬† The reason being that they had outperformed the S&amp;P by a very handy margin. The man on the street should invest by buying unmanaged index funds, while America's most successful investor hands gobs of money to two active and savvy managers.¬† As they say on Sesame Street ‚Äì "one of these things is not like the other."
Yesterday, Kingdom Holding Company, the investing firm of Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal Al Saud, sent out a stern press release. In conjunction with the release of Forbes' 2013 Billionaires list, the Prince announced that he was severing ties with the publication's ranking. Kingdom alleged that Forbes' methodology was biased against Mideast investors and gave the Prince's disclosures unwarranted scrutiny. This morning Forbes fired back in a brutal takedown hovering around 3,000 words. It's called, "Prince Alwaleed And The Curious Case Of Kingdom Holding Stock." Writer Kerry Dolan paints a picture of a man obsessed with presenting the image of a consummate, global business mogul from the glossy Photoshopped magazine covers he sends in his press kits to constant watching of¬†CNBC. The Kingdom Holding website, Dolan points out, presents the Prince as "the world's foremost value investor." And of course, foremost has to mean incredibly wealthy. That, says Dolan, is where Forbes' list has come in year after year (but no more). AP PhotoFrom Forbes: The prince first came on Forbes' wealth-hunting radar in 1988, a year after our first Billionaires issue came out. The source: the prince himself, who contacted a FORBES reporter to let him know just how successful his Kingdom Establishment for Trading &amp; Contracting company was‚Äìand to make clear that he belonged on the new list. That outreach proved to be the first in what is now a quarter-century of intermittent lobbying, cajoling and threatening when it comes to his net worth listing. Of the 1,426 billionaires on our list, not one‚Äìnot even the vainglorious Donald Trump‚Äìgoes to greater measure to try to affect his or her ranking. In 2006 when FORBES estimated that the prince was actually worth $7 billion less than he said he was, he called me at home the day after the list was released, sounding nearly in tears. ‚ÄúWhat do you want?‚Äù he pleaded, offering up his private banker in Switzerland. ‚ÄúTell me what you need.‚Äù The anecdotes go on. The Prince lives the life of a hard-working executive, sleeping little and expecting his staff to be on call at his 420-room palace, or his jet, or his 120-acre "farm and resort" at all times. Dolan says he's trying to live up to the legacy of his family, the founders of Saudi Arabia and leaders of Lebanon. And it's not that he hasn't had his successes in business. Alwaleed got his start making a massive bet on Citi: From Forbes: As regulators pressured Citicorp to increase its capital base in the face of bad loans across developing countries, Alwaleed, then unknown outside Saudi Arabia, amassed an $800 million position. That enormous bet ballooned across two Wall Street boom cycles‚Äìby 2005 it was worth $10 billion, making Alwaleed, at the time, one of the ten richest people in the world, and earning him a nickname, which he encouraged, of ‚Äúthe Buffett of Arabia.‚Äù The problem, Dolan writes (pulling absolutely no punches) is that Kingdom Holdings' underlying assets do not add up to its own reported value. The Prince, she claims, is using his own personal fortune to boost the company in order to maintain his image. From Forbes: ...Kingdom Holding shares began what seemed a miraculous rebound in early 2010, rising 57% in the ten weeks prior to the February date that FORBES used to lock in values for that year‚Äôs Billionaires list, as Citigroup shares fell about 20%. The prince‚Äôs ranking on the FORBES billionaires list surged in lockstep to 19th ($19.4 billion). In 2011 the pattern repeated. In the ten weeks before FORBES locked down its list, Kingdom Holding shares rose 31% while the Saudi index was up 3% and the S&amp;P 500 was up 9% over that same period. (Prince Alwaleed finished at No. 26 in the world that year, with an estimated net worth of $19.6 billion.) It happened yet again in 2012, when Kingdom shares climbed 56% while the Saudi market was up just 11%, and the S&amp;P 500 was up 9%. (This time Alwaleed was No. 29, with an $18 billion valuation, after FORBES discounted his claims on many of his non-Kingdom Holding assets.) In this year's calculations, Forbes said it could not justify Kingdom's estimation of Alwaleed's wealth and that the gap between their estimates and his is about $9.6 billion.
ShutterstockGood morning! From Michel Block at Phoenix Partners, some headlines of the morning: Europe stronger as fiscal targets are once again kicked aside.¬† Italy still doesn‚Äôt have a govt but everyone back to bulling sovereign bonds.¬† Where were these guys a week ago? Services PMIs in Europe better.¬† U.S. version of that today at 10AM China bounces back on promises of fiscal spending hikes.¬† That‚Äôs the way.¬† Let‚Äôs see if beta bounces on that. Kim Jong Un getting bellicose.Leaders yesterday ‚Äì Retailing, Utilities, Banks, Real Estate.¬† Is this a flight to quality/income?¬† A U.S. centric trade?¬† Some combo thereof? For more on what's happening today, see here &gt;
Justin Jeffers is the founder of fashion blog, The Fine Young Gentlemen. The basics. So often they seem to be overlooked by the American male. The result is the failure of many a good manís attempt at clothing himself in a respectable manner. So letís walk before we run. The most important thing for any piece of clothing a man dons is the fit. You could be wearing the most expensive suit made from the most expensive fabric in the world, but if the suit does not fit. You will still look like crap. A man will look better in a $500 suit that fits him well than the aforementioned multi-thousand suit that does not. Simple. A few things to pay attention to when you're finding a suit: If the shoulders of a suit jacket protrude an inch past the wearers shoulder line then clearly it does not fit well. If the pant legs look like sails flailing in the wind then clearly they do not fit and will need to be taken in. Proportions are the foundation of fit. In men's clothing, they determine basically everything. If you a wearing a suit, the width of the lapels, length of the jacket, width of the tie, length of the collar points on the shirt collar as well as nearly every other aspect of a suit and shirt all play off of each other. All those parts of the suit need to be consistent. You cannot wear a skinny tie with a wide lapeled jacket and think you look good. Designers play with these proportions to create their ësignatureí looks, but these often serve to mislead men. It's nice to think you can be creative, but you should leave the daring looks to the professionals. It is only when the various aspects of what a man is wearing are in proportion with each other and with his face and body that what he can be wearing can be deemed to fit well. Regardless of your stance on the O.J. Simpson trial, there is one thing that we must take away from it, a line from Johnnie Cochran. That is, "If is doesnít fit, you must acquit." In other words, if you are wearing something that does not fit get something that fits to replace it. If you are looking to buy something that doesnít fit, donít buy it. For any well dressed man knows that at the foundation of dressing well is well fitting garments.
Times Higher Education¬†has released its 2013 World Reputation Rankings, which are based on¬†the world's largest invitation-only academic opinion survey "to provide the definitive list of the top 100 most powerful global university brands." Although the reputation rankings aren't as objective as their¬†annual World University Rankings¬†‚Äî which¬†employs 13 carefully calibrated performance indicators¬†‚Äî¬†the brand evaluation is based on "the¬†expert judgement of senior, published academics." Australia¬†stepped up to the world stage as it now has six universities represented in the top 100 while¬†the UK has lost three institutions from the world top 100 list since the first reputation rankings in 2011. In the U.S. the University of Massachusetts has fallen from 19th to 42nd since 2011 while¬†John Hopkins dropped from 14th in 2011 to 19th this year. New York University has risen 29 from the 51-60 group in '11. Here's the top 10 (along with their overall score): The U.S. continues to dominate the list with 11 of the top 15 and 43 universities total (the next highest is the UK with nine total). Twenty¬†countries are represented in the list:  The data allows tracking of individual universities over the years, which will be interesting to watch as as time progresses: Now Watch: The Secrets Of Superachievers Revealed¬†// <![CDATA[OO.ready(function() { OO.Player.create('ooyalaplayer', 't4cjVrOToVeZeXPLA6EJSKfwD61HyUMV'); });// ]]>&lt;div&gt;Please enable Javascript to watch this video&lt;/div&gt;                                                                                        Check out the entire list                                            SEE ALSO: The 22 Most Impressive Students At Harvard Right Now                                                                 	            					                		                        More:                                                        Harvard                                            College                                            Universities                                            Brands                                                                                                                                                                Lists                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						2																								All Comments						16									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        The Most Respected Universities In The World    The Most Respected Universities In The World        The elite in the eyes of the elite.
Getty Images/Jason Kempin/StaffSeveral years after the financial crisis, Citi is still a company in turmoil. Fourth quarter earnings were weak, and it's still trying to retrench after CEO Vikram Pandit was pushed out†in October. Now, according to the Wall Street Journal, new CEO Michael Corbat is trying to distinguish himself and change the culture at a company that has become difficult to manage. He's doing so using data, looking at what executives say they can accomplish and rigorously scoring them on whether they measure up in five different areas.†"You are what you measure," he told executives.† As described by WSJ's†Suzanne Kapner:† "The 52-year-old Mr. Corbat is hoping to instill the right incentives through the use of score cards that will grade the 50 or so top executives based on a set of weighted goals from five categories: capital, clients, costs, culture and controls. The highest score is 100%; the lowest is minus 40%, said people familiar with the plan." The idea, according to an exec, is†"You said you would do this. Did you?"† Under Pandit, there were score cards for a few departments, but not for everybody.†The primary incentives at Citi, as at other banks before the crisis, involved booking huge profits. Corbat has acknowledged the flaws in this model and his desire to change incentives. He hopes that by†making the process more transparent and data driven, he'll be able to see who's responding and who's clinging to the old culture.†
Wikimediia Commons So economist Paul Krugman and MSNBC host Joe Scarborough squared off last night on the deficit, and Krugman felt that he lost the fight. In Krugman's post on why he lost, he expressed surprise at some of Joe Scarborough's opinions: ...I wasnít prepared for Joe Scarboroughís slipperiness about what he actually advocates (heís for more spending in the near term? Who knew?) It's not that surprising that Scarborough came out in favor of more near-term spending. The stimulus-up-front, austerity-in-the-rear concept is a pretty popular idea, even among fans of Simpson-Bowles deficit reduction. And since even Krugman is prone to admit that the US has some long-term spending issues, it seems like the debate wasn't as simple as the "austerity vs. stimulus" argument that Krugman was expecting. In fact, the real debate isn't austerity vs. stimulus at all. The real (and interesting) debate is whether Washington can "walk and chew gum" so to speak: stimulate now, while simultaneously getting our long-term deficit down. So Scarborough is the consummate walk-and-chew-gummer. The problem is, walking and chewing gum doesn't work in theory or practice. Our favorite commentary on this came from Richard Koo, who explained the problem with addressing long-term deficits while also stimulating in the near-term. He likened addressing both concepts to a doctor upbraiding a patient in intensive care about whether they can afford treatment. It's indecent. The patient is dying. Save the patient. Then figure it out! Arguing need for longer-term fiscal consolidation is irresponsibleThe insistence that fiscal consolidation is necessary in the longer term is like the doctor who, faced with a patient who has just been admitted to the intensive care ward, repeatedly questions the patient about his ability to afford the treatment. This is both lacking in decency and irresponsible.If the patient loses heart after learning the cost of the treatment, he may end up spending even longer in the hospital, leading to a larger final bill. Completely ignoring the policy duration effect of fiscal policy and constantly insisting on longer-term fiscal consolidation was what prolonged Japanís recession.For instance, it was because Japanís policymakers refused to give up the medium-term fiscal consolidation target of achieving a primary fiscal balance by 2011 that the government stumbled from fiscal stimulus to fiscal retrenchment and back again and, ultimately, was unable to meet its fiscal targets even once in the last 20 years.That is why Japanís recession lasted as long as it did and why the nationís debt has risen to some 200% of GDP. And this formulation has totally been born out by practice. It's because there's this huge obsession with long-term deficits and debts that we got the debt ceiling fight, and the end of the payroll tax cut, and now the sequester, and all the author austerity pushes. If we people didn't think the long-term deficit problems, then all of these short-term pushes would have seemed indecent. And that's the scandal! You've no doubt seen all those charts about medical carts exploding in the future, swallowing US government spending. Here's one from Paul Ryan. It looks scary!  But in the meantime, the deficit is being driven by one thing: Weak growth. The current deficit has nothing to do with entitlements of big structural issues or anything like that. This you can see by comparing the deficit as a % of GDP to the unemployment rate.  But it's because of the first long-term scare chart, that people don't understand that current deficits are all about growth, and that any current policy should first not be growth harming. And so we get this dumb sequester, which not only could cost hundreds of thousands of jobs, but doesn't actually do anything to address the long-term debt trajectory of the US. Bipartisan Policy Center So this is why Joe Scarborough is wrong. This obsessions long-term deficits is causing bad short-term, counterproductive policy that only harms growth, and doesn't do anything to address long-term deficits! Let's focus on getting unemployment down to normal, and getting the economy humming again. At that point, we can see how else to deal with rising healthcare costs. For more on Krugman vs. Scarborough, see here &gt;
APGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
So far, so good. S&amp;P 500 revenues per share bottomed during Q1-2009 and are up 30.2% through Q4-2012, and 5.9% y/y. I also track revenues for the S&amp;P 500 Industrial Composite, which excludes Transportation, Financials, and Utilities. On a per-share basis, it is up 42.4% over this same period, and 4.4% y/y. Both measures are at record highs. I am predicting that revenues will increase 5% this year and next year. As of the week of 2/21, industry analysts were predicting that S&amp;P 500 revenues will increase 3.1% this year and 5.0% next year. Forward revenues, the time-weighted average of these two forecasts, rose to a new cyclical high. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Happy Anniversary! (1) Jumping the gun. (2) So close, and not so far. (3) Is sentiment too bullish? Short answer: Nope. (4) Bull/Bear Ratio works better at bottoms than tops. (5) Four years ago, skeptics doubted revenues could grow. (6) Must profit margins revert? Yes, but no rush. (7) Forward earnings at record highs yet again for S&amp;P 500/400/600. (8) S&amp;P 500 Blue Angels flying high. (9) Still targeting 1665. (More for subscribers.)
wikimedia commonsAnalysts at French bank Societe Generale have a big report out titled "The Return Of Yield: Preparing For Rising Long Term Rates." The theme is very great-rotation-y in that they argue that the economy is turning the corner, and interest rates are about to rise. Their language is strong and dramatic. A watershed moment for the U.S. economy is at hand, and the risk is that it will happen sooner rather than later. We believe that 2013 will be a breakout year for the US economy. As this realisation sets in and markets begin to price the end of asset purchases and focus on the exit sequence, Treasury yields are likely to bottom out. There is a significant gap between current yield levels and fair values, and we believe that the end of the QE programme will have compressed the 10-year term premiums by perhaps as much as 140bp. The question is how quickly this compression will be unwound. Our central scenario assumes a 2.75% year-end target, but here we evaluate the possibility and implications of a more rapid correction to 3.50%. It has been our longstanding view that 2013 will see an inflection point on growth. After sequential deleveraging of households, small businesses, state and local governments and now the federal government, the structural headwinds to growth are beginning to fade. (Admittedly, fiscal deleveraging is only beginning, but we believe that the modest drag will be offset by improving private sector fundamentals). Whereas we doubted previous growth spurts in US data, we believe that this time the improvement is for real. We expect this to be a breakout year for the US economy, with growth firmly above trend levels by the end of the year. Ironically, the Fed's harsh lessons from the previous false starts have led them to adopt a far more accommodative approach with the goal of dampening the bond market's reaction to any data improvements. It remains to be seen whether this will work or not. In accordance with the Fed's qualitative guidance on asset purchases, and despite our increasingly optimistic outlook for the US economy, we expect balance sheet expansion to continue through to the end of the year. The risk, however, is that it will happen sooner rather than later. Either way, we think that the watershed moment for the markets ‚Äî or the realisation that the economy is finally breaking away from trend growth and the days of QE are numbered ‚Äî is likely to occur much earlier. With this realisation, bond yields should bottom out and begin their gradual normalisation toward fair values. What those fair values are and how quickly they can get there are the key issues addressed in this section. This chart shows some possible trajectories for 10-year yields. SocGen
GENEVA (Reuters) - Car sales in Europe are at the low end of expectations and the market is likely to remain shaky for at least five years as the region implements austerity measures to cut its debts, industry executives warned on Tuesday. Speaking at the Geneva car show, the head of Ford'sEuropean business, Stephen Odell, said he expected sales on the continent to continue "running along the bottom" of the U.S. car maker's forecasts during the first half of this year, following a dismal January and February. German premium car maker BMW, meanwhile, predicted the market was likely to stay tough for years to come. "We believe that the underlying problem in Europe, which is mainly about debt, will persist for at least five more years," Chief Executive Norbert Reithofer said. Demand for cars in Europe has been hit hard as disposable incomes have been squeezed by rising prices, subdued wages and government austerity measures. New car sales in the 27-member European Union dropped 8.2 percent to a 17-year low in 2012, and figures so far this year suggest the market is getting weaker. New car registrations in Germany, previously a bastion of stability, slumped over 10 percent in February, while they were down around 12 percent and 17 percent in France and Italy respectively. TIME TO CUT FORECASTS? Morgan Stanley analysts on Tuesday cut their forecast for EU car demand this year to a decline of 6 percent from a drop of 4 percent previously, warning that weakness in southern European markets like Spain and Italy was spreading northwards. Duncan Aldred, the sales chief of General Motors'Opel brand, predicted on Monday that European car sales could slide as much as 10 percent this year. However, other executives remained reluctant to cut their forecasts so early in the year. French car maker PSA Peugeot Citroen, for example, said on Tuesday it was sticking to its view the European market would contract between 3 percent and 5 percent this year. "The pressure is not letting up," Peugeot brands chief Frederic Saint-Geours said. Ford's Odell also reiterated the No. 2 U.S. car maker's prediction of between 13 and 14 million vehicle sales in Europe this year, although he signaled a high degree of uncertainty. "Frankly, who knows what happens in the second half," he said. Odell also warned it was likely to be four to five years before European demand recovers to the 17 million to 18 million vehicle range seen in 2007, before the global financial crisis. Europe would see "a very slow recovery curve and probably some blips," he forecast. Ford, like many rivals, is pinning its hopes on sales of higher margin sports-utility vehicles (SUVs) and crossovers, which have features of SUVs, such as the EcoSport, which it is showcasing in Geneva and will bring to Europe later this year. BMW, meanwhile, was optimistic demand from the United States and particularly China would continue to outweigh weakness in Europe after it reported record group sales for the first two months of the year. "We're cautiously optimistic for this year," CEO Reithofer said, forecasting a 2 percent rise in the U.S. market and 8.5 percent growth in China, as well as a 2 percent drop in Europe. (Additional reporting by Laurence Frost; Writing by Mark Potter; Editing by Erica Billingham) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
In his morning note, SocGen currency guru Kit Juckes writes: Good morning. The papers tell us we are going to enjoy a 'mini-heatwave' for the next 24 hours in London, with temperatures at a "balmy" 15C, 59F. Banish Monday Blues but don't get suckered into thinking that all our troubles are really behind us. Just enjoy the moment. This is Ben's magic at work.†† On Twitter he follows by saying: "We're all FOBORS today." FOBORS? What's that mean? Fellow market pro Dan Davies explains. @pawelmorski @spbaines FOrced Buyers Of Risk Acronym of the day.
Despite an ugly Services PMI number earlier, this is turning into a mondo day in Italy. FTSE MIB
The World Economic Forum, FlickrWhat's going on in Japan is inevitably going to be one of the greatest economics experiments in history. The new Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe, has promised to jumpstart the Japanese economy and get out of deflation almost entirely through financial measures. The US has had pretty decent success (by historical standards) coming out of the financial crisis, but the US engaged in a mix of monetary stimulus and fiscal stimulus. And beyond that, the underlying dynamics (mostly demographics) remain fairly favorable in the US. The UK experienced some monetary stimulus (though arguably not enough) and tried fiscal austerity, so that's its own experiment. Cullen Roche writes, in regards to the latest comments out of Japan (including the incoming BOJ chief's line about doing "whatever it takes" to fight deflation): Ben Bernanke once said that a determined central bank could always end a deflation. And I guess weíre about to find out whether thatís true or not. Whatís currently going on in Japan is rather incredible. Theyíre throwing the kitchen sink, garbage disposal and all the plumbing at their fight with deflation. No matter what happens, this will be a great experiment. If it all works, great. If it doesn't, it will be a great lesson on the limitations of policy ó which may either be technical limitations on what monetary policy can achieve, or limitations based on politics and will.
Italian services PMI came in weak. Here's all you need to know about what's going on. Markit
Wikimedia CommonsUS futures are gaining in the pre-market, and it's a big risk-on day, so here's something to watch. The Dow could hit its all-time high today. The index closed yesterday at 14,127.82. The all time high if 14,164.53. So we need a gain of just about 37 points. Futures are pointing to about half of that. Is today the day? For more coverage of what's going on this morning see here &gt;
Yesterday started with markets sharply lower, but by the end of the day, the US was in the green. Today markets are in the green. There were solid gains in Asia. Italy is up 1.75%. Germany is up 1.4%. Commodities are up across the board. And US futures are higher as well. SocGen's Kit Juckes tweeted this great summary of what's going on. @thestalwart RBAonholdabitless dovish. Globalrisk-onafterUSequityrally. Italian economy going backwards as fast as new Lambo goes forwards.
APIt has been four days since sequestration officially went into effect, yet confusion lingers over who is to blame for Washington's failure to avert the $85 billion in across-the-board spending cuts. In a press conference Friday, President Barack Obama accused GOP leaders of refusing to come to the table to avoid the sequester, arguing that he cannot perform a "Jedi mind meld" to force House Republicans to agree to a deal on the budget cuts. Meanwhile, Republican House Speaker John Boehner has laid the blame squarely on Obama and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid for failing to come up with a sequester plan "that can actually pass the Democratic-controlled Senate." While conventional wisdom tends to side with Obama on this issue, it's worth noting that there is some truth behind Boehner's argument. Despite the President's doomsday rhetoric, the White House has made little effort to reach a deal on the sequester.¬†In the weeks leading up to Friday's deadline, the Obama administration virtually gave up on direct negotiations with Congress, focusing instead on a public relations campaign aimed at warning Americans about the potentially devastating consequences of the budget cuts.¬† In fact, Obama and Congressional leaders did not meet face-to-face about the sequester until Friday, the day that the cuts were scheduled to go into effect. Negotiations also stalled in the Senate, where Republican aides have claimed that their Democratic counterparts made little effort to reach a deal in the two months following the year-end fiscal cliff agreement that pushed back the sequester deadline to March 1. That is not to say that Democrats did not have their own plan to avoid the sequester, as Boehner claimed in an interview with "Meet The Press" Sunday.¬† Both the White House and Senate Democrats put forward proposals to replace the sequester through a combination of spending cuts and new revenues, obtained primarily by closing tax loopholes and capping deductions. But Senate Democrats made few attempts to get Republican support for their bill, which was loaded with liberal priorities, including the Buffett Rule and an end to tax breaks for oil companies.¬† In what was widely seen as a show vote last week, the bill failed to win the 60 votes needed to avoid a filibuster. A Republican alternative, which would have given Obama more flexibility in administering the cuts, also failed. "Democrats did not include Republicans in their gimmicky sequester bill," said Robert Steurer, a spokesperson for Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell. "It¬†didn‚Äôt go through committee or any amendment process on the floor." Democratic Senate aides counter that any attempt to revive talks would have been futile, given Republican opposition to new revenues. They correctly note that, since the fiscal cliff deal, Senate Republican leaders have categorically rejected any sequester deal that included additional tax revenues.¬† "They had no interest in any deal that included even a penny of new revenue," one Senate Democratic aide told Business Insider. "So while there were certainly conversations among members and dialogue, it‚Äôs very difficult to negotiate unless you have someone at the other side of the table who is willing to compromise as well." While it is true that Senate GOP leaders have no political will for a compromise ‚Äî both McConnell and his No. 2, Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), are up for re-election in 2014 ‚Äî other Republican Senators have indicated they may be open to a comprehensive deficit reduction package that includes some new revenue. Now that the sequester deadline has passed, the President has begun to reach out to those rank-and-file Republican Senators, Obama's chief economic advisor Gene Sperling said on "Meet The Press" Sunday. But this new outreach effort raises a key question about Obama's sequester warnings: If the cuts are really as devastating as he claims, why wait until after the deadline to reach out to lawmakers who are willing to compromise? Democrats would argue that House Republicans were never going to accept a sequester deal that included new revenues. That may be true, but at least Obama would have been doing something to avoid the painful budget cuts that he spent so much time foreshadowing.
GoogleChina's notorious ghost cities are a disaster waiting to happen, according to a new report from 60 Minutes. Take it from the CEO of Vanke, the country's largest residential real estate developer, who tells 60 Minutes that developers are deep in debt, projects are being abandoned, and things could get ugly fast. The nightmare scenario could be like America's housing crash but worse. "It's like walking into a forest of skyscrapers, but they're all empty," financial analyst Gillem Tulloch said of another ghost city, Chenggong. We're taking this occasion to check with satellite imagery on China's most famous empty developments. Of course things may be better than they seem.†Yale's Stephen Roach†argues that China is experiencing†"the greatest urbanization story the world has ever seen," and that these ghost cities will soon become "thriving metropolitan areas."
PBSMSNBC's Joe Scarborough and New York Times economist Paul Krugman went head-to-head Monday night in a taped debate moderated by PBS' Charlie Rose, which Krugman hinted did not go so well earlier today. The debate took its predictable form on topics on which the pair has not seen eye-to-eye over the past month. Krugman argued that the deficit was not a major problem and that the government should be spending more money to aid an economy still in recovery with weak unemployment.† Scarborough argued that, so to speak, Washington can "walk and chew gum" at the same time ó meaning they should be able to address the nation's debt and fix the economy. Scarborough repeatedly pressed Krugman on some of his past warnings about the nation's debt, leading Krugman to suggest that Scarborough was engaging in "ad hominem" attacks. The debate got a bit testy at the end, when Scarborough shook his head at Krugman when he murmured, "Wow," at one of Krugman's arguments. Scarborough compared Krugman to Al Gore's sigh-filled performance during a 2000 presidential debate. "You know what? If you could just stop from saying, 'Wow,' and let me just finish a point, Paul," Scarborough said. "You and Al Gore really need to talk about it. This is a real problem. If people don't agree with†you all the time ... you just feel like you have to take the cheap shots." Here's a 2005 Krugman column that serves as an example of the overall point Scarborough kept trying to make. In it, Krugman warned of a rising deficit that would grow even more with increased costs of Medicare and Medicaid.† Krugman pushed back on that point by saying that times have changed. "Why don't we try to argue the substance," Krugman said, "and not play gotcha?" At another point, Krugman asked Scarborough for evidence that the focus should be on spending and not the "clear and present threat of high unemployment." Krugman slammed Simpson and Bowles, who predicted a crisis two years ago that has not materialized. He also cited debt hawks that have been wrong about warnings that the U.S. could have a crisis like Greece. "You've made some wrong projections yourself in the past," Scarborough responded. "This is so disappointing," Krugman told Scarborough. "All you can do is ad hominem and say, 'Oh, you said this. We're trying to have a serious discussion here." "No, it's not. It's disappointing to you," Scarborough said. "... Because you've changed your tune." "Because the world changed," Krugman responded. For all of their testiness, there were some points on which Krugman and Scarborough didn't differ much. When Krugman asked, Scarborough said that he believes there should be investment in infrastructure and other government spending. "That means spending more money right now," Krugman said. Scarborough said he'd be willing to provide up to $200 billion in infrastructure spending, something that seemed to surprise Krugman. PBSBut Scarborough said that it was a "straw man's argument" to pretend that all Republicans want European-style austerity. He tried to make the point that he was not worried about short-term deficits, but rather long-term debt. He also said that reasonable ó but certainly not all ó Republicans like him want reforms to Medicare, Medicaid and, to a lesser extent, Social Security for the long-term. The moderator Rose asked Krugman at what point he would agree with Scarborough that something needs to be done about the debt. "It has to be ... I don't know where, but it's way above here," Krugman said, citing Japan, which †once had debt that was 200 percent of its GDP. Krugman attempted to specify the difference between what he said was a "spending problem vs. a health care problem." "Looking over the past five years, we do not have a spending problem," Krugman said. If anything, "we've been spending too little in the past five years." Scarborough called it nonsense to dismiss the debt as a concern, and said the argument that the deficit is currently shrinking is a misnomer. "That'd be like me going to my doctor and seeing my cholesterol come down 25 percent because it was at 400 before that," Scarborough said. And in the end, the two came down largely on the opposite ends on which they started. Scarborough said that a lot of important people agree with him, and Krugman said that the economy needs more stimulus. "I agree with the majority of people. And it's not just inside this ... incestuous, whatever you call it," Scarborough said. "... We believe we have a long-term debt problem."
