On Thursday, we told you the story of Dogecoin, the most 2013 thing of 2013. It combines the meme of the year ‚Äî doge, which are images of Comic Sans thought bubbles written in the imagined syntax of a devastatingly cute Shiba Inu puppy¬†‚Äî with a digital currency. At the time, it's popularity was exploding thanks to its increasing use in "tipping" people on the Internet for having performed a good deed. That Thursday, the average price "surged" to about than $0.002, and briefly became the¬†7th-largest altcoin by market cap. But starting around Friday, Dogecoin prices began to plummet. As of Sunday night, prices now stand at ¬†$0.0003‚Äî an approximately 80% drop-off from Thursday highs. We just got an email from Billy Markus, Dogecoin's co-creator explaining what happened. He said that the currency basically experienced an unsustainable explosion in popularity over the past 72 hours, as it became the most profitable altcoin to mine.¬†That meant it required very little computing power to mine large amounts of Dogecoin. Large mining pools instantly seized on this phenomenon, and then sold out of their positions to everyone trying to get their hands on it. "Basically multipools (and probably people too) sold a lot and ate up all the bids," he wrote. Still, 14th place ain't nothin', and it remains the most popular altcoin for tipping.¬† Here's the chart (as expressed in Bitcoin): Coinwarz.com And in terms of market cap ‚Äî it's now back to 14th place, behind "Zetacoin"¬†(with our embellishments), having fallen about 70%: Cryptocoincharts
Folding@homeThirteen years ago, Stanford researchers created a program that allowed anyone in the world to help solve diseases simply by running their computers. Called Folding@home, the program enables you to perform calculations on your idle computer that are needed to do research into protein folding. This research is important because when proteins mis-fold, cancer, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's can result.† So far,†6.3 million CPUs have contributed†18 petaFLOPS of computation, resulting in 109 peer-reviewed articles describing various breakthroughs, big and small, in managing those diseases. Bitcoin the digital currency, is about four years old. But the amount of computing power that currently goes into mining Bitcoin, which are created by unscrambling complex strings of encrypted numbers, now stands at 110.6 petaFLOPS. So if we apply the amount of computing power now being devoted to Bitcoin mining to Folding@home, we could now be pumping out 666 peer-reviewed papers about chronic diseases. There's more. Another mass computing program, called Einstein@home, is designed to detect†gravitational-wave emissions from spinning neutron stars.†The project seems to have gone into partial hibernation. But as of 2010, it had compiled less than a full petaFLOPS' worth of computations to detect 2 new pulsars, which indicate the presence of neutron stars and allow astronomers to study††the behavior of matter at nuclear density. So on our same 110.6 petaFLOPS, we could have found at least 221 new Pulsars. BI contributor John Aziz has discussed the moral implications of these kinds of calculations, finding them at ambiguous at best. But it seems fair to state that if you're considering devoting resources to Bitcoin mining, you may want to keep these numbers in mind.
Swatch, the world's largest watchmaker, and Tiffany, a New York-based jeweler, had struck an agreement in 2007 to develop watches under the Tiffany brand together. The arrangement, intended to last for 20 years and give Tiffany a much bigger place in the luxury watch market, never turned into big business for either company, and the deal ended in acrimony in 2011. The companies sued one another in arbitration court in the Netherlands, where their Tiffany Watch Co joint venture was domiciled. The case went to arbitration in 2012. Michael Kowalski, the chief executive of the luxury retailer, said in a statement that he was "shocked and extremely disappointed" with the court ruling, issued on Friday, and that the company was reviewing its options. In their lawsuits, Swatch Group had faulted Tiffany for "systematic efforts to block and delay development of the business," while Tiffany had said that Swatch did not honor the terms of the agreement, including providing adequate distribution. Kowalski said Tiffany had sufficient financial resources to pay the full amount of damages. Tiffany said it would fund the award from immediately available cash on hand and funds from existing debt facilities, and that it didn't expect the ruling to impact its short or long-term business plans. For Tiffany, the dissolution of the deal with Swatch was a huge setback in its efforts to once again be a big player in the world of luxury watches. The company only gets about 1 percent of sales from watches now, compared to about 9 percent in the late 1980s. That shrank as the company decided to focus more on its engagement jewelry business. Kowalski said in a statement on Sunday that Tiffany is moving forward with its plans to design, produce, market and distribute its own Tiffany &amp; Co brand watches. Tiffany's said it would record a fourth-quarter charge of $295 million to $305 million as a result of the ruling. It lowered its full-year¬†earnings¬†outlook range to $2.30 a share to $2.35 a share from a previous estimate of $3.65 a share to $3.75 a share. Shares of Tiffany's closed at $90.62 on Friday.
REUTERS / Kim Hong-JiForeign currency dealers in Seoul, South Korea.The weekend is over, and stocks are up nicely. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is up 0.41%. Korea's Kospi is up 0.33%. The Nikkei is closed for the Emperor's birthday. U.S. futures are up more than .20%. Bitcoin is at $630 on the Mt. Gox exchange. Gold is going nowhere. There are six economic reports coming out this week ‚Äî click here to read our preview ¬ª
ABG/Getty ImagesFew people actually own their own private planes outright. Instead, they buy into companies that sell shares in them, dividing up the cost of maintaining what would otherwise be a ludicrously expensive enterprise. As the New York Times' Nathaniel Popper points out today, this is professional cost-sharing arrangement now how many profit-seeking Bitcoin fanatics have begun approaching mining the digital currency. Bitcoins are mined by computers unscrambling encrypted bits of numbers. As more Bitcoin are mined, increasingly greater amounts of computing power, and thus electricity, are required. As we've discussed, the fastest miners on the market now sell for thousands of dollars, on top of whatever electricity costs you have to pay to keep what amounts to a supercomputer running 24/7. So how do you keep those costs in check?¬† Pool your resources and move to Iceland, of course. Thanks to vast geothermal and and hydropower reserves industrial electricity costs $0.02-$0.03 per kilowatt hour, compared with ¬†$0.07 in the U.S. Among those leading the push to professional, industrial-scale Nordic mining, the Times' Popper writes, is Emmanuel Abiodun, 31.¬†This October, the former HSBC analyst from London moved the operations of his professional mining pool business, called Cloud Hashing, to Reykjavik. His 100 machines can now crank out¬†225 Bitcoins a week.  The cost to join the pool and own a tiny fraction of that haul? $999. But 4,500 people have signed up, and Abiodun says he's about to open another site in Texas, where it will be more expensive to mine but put him in greater proximity to the mining machines' creators, Austin-based Cointerra. Click here to read the full story ¬ª
As has been rumored for months, Apple's iPhone will soon be available on China Mobile, the largest wireless carrier in the world with more than 760 million subscribers. It's a big move. Apple has very low smartphone market share in China, a country where customers are still making the transition from regular cell phones to more advanced smartphones. The deal with China Mobile will allow Apple to tap into hundreds of millions of potential new customers. China Mobile is also launching a new high-speed 4G network that will be compatible with Apple's iPhones. The iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C will be available on China Mobile on January 17, 2014. Here's the full press release from Apple: BEIJING and CUPERTINO, CaliforniaóDecember 22, 2013óAppleÆ and China Mobile today announced they have entered into a multi-year agreement to bring iPhoneÆ to the world's largest mobile network. As part of the agreement, iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c will be available from China Mobile's expansive network of retail stores as well as Apple retail stores across mainland China beginning on Friday, January 17, 2014. iPhone 5s, the most forward-thinking smartphone in the world and iPhone 5c, the most colorful iPhone yet, will be available for pre-registration from China Mobile's official website (www.10086.cn) and customer service hotline "10086" beginning on Wednesday, December 25, 2013.ìAppleís iPhone is very much loved by millions of customers around the world. We know there are many China Mobile customers and potential new customers who are anxiously awaiting the incredible combination of iPhone on China Mobileís leading network. We are delighted that iPhone on China Mobile will support our 4G/TD-LTE and 3G/TD-SCDMA networks, providing customers with high-speed mobile service,î said Xi Guohua, China Mobile Chairman.ìApple has enormous respect for China Mobile and we are excited to begin working together. China is an extremely important market for Apple and our partnership with China Mobile presents us the opportunity to bring iPhone to the customers of the world's largest network,î said Tim Cook, Apple CEO. ìiPhone customers in China are an enthusiastic and rapidly growing group, and we canít think of a better way to welcome in the Chinese New Year than getting an iPhone into the hands of every China Mobile customer who wants one.îChina Mobile now has over 1.2 million 2G/GSM, 3G/TD-SCDMA, 4G/TD-LTE base stations and over 4.2 million Wi-Fi access points, providing broad coverage to quality networks for iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c customers. China Mobile is rolling out the worldís largest 4G network. By the end of 2013, China Mobileís 4G services will be available in 16 cities including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen. By the end of 2014, China Mobile plans to complete the rollout of more than 500,000 4G base stations, which will cover more than 340 cities with 4G service. The collaboration between Apple and China Mobile will give a big boost to the development of China's homegrown 4G/TD-LTE technology. iPhone on China Mobile supports major cellular network standards, making a global phone a reality for China Mobile customers.iPhone 5s redefines the best smartphone experience in the world with amazing new features all packed into a remarkable thin and light design, including the Apple-designed A7 64-bit chip, all-new 8 megapixel iSightÆ camera with True Tone flash and introducing Touch IDô, an innovative way to simply and securely unlock your phone with just the touch of a finger. iPhone 5c features an all new-design in five gorgeous colors and is packed with features people know and love like the beautiful 4-inch RetinaÆ display, blazing fast performance of the A6 chip, and the 8 megapixel iSight cameraóall while delivering great battery life.* iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c both offer more 4G LTE bands than any other smartphone in the world and include all-new FaceTimeÆ HD cameras.iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c come with iOS 7, the most significant iOS update since the original iPhone, featuring a stunning new user interface, completely redesigned with an elegant color palette, distinct, functional layers and subtle motion that make it feel more alive. iOS 7 has hundreds of great new features, including Control Center, Notification Center, improved Multitasking, AirDropÆ, enhanced Photos, SafariÆ and SiriÆ.Details of pricing and availability of iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c for China Mobile will be available at a later date.
REUTERS/Mark BlinchThis Santa Claus deflated due to a power outage. Some economists warn that inflation may be coming back.Last week, the Federal Reserve unexpectedly announced that it was tapering its stimulative quantitative easing program, the first step in the long process of unwinding years of easy monetary policy. Stocks rocketed to all-time highs. Among other things, the Fed lowered its forecasts for unemployment and raised its forecasts for GDP growth. It also reduced its expectations for inflation. However, there are signs that a higher rate of inflation may be on the horizon. Here are three related bullets from UBS's Friday note to clients: "Around half of core PCE slowdown has reflected what may be just temporary medical cost slowing"; "Shortages of specific labor skills (eg, in manufacturing and construction) spell selective wage hikes"; and "Tighter rental market implying further rent acceleration." Inflation is something we'll have to keep a close eye on. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Once Wall Street's biggest bull, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco now has the most conservative 2014 target for the S&amp;P 500 of the major strategists followed by Business Insider. His number: 1,850. "We think the S&amp;P likely stays within +/- 5% range from 1800 for the next several months as investors watch EPS and interest rate trends," wrote Bianco in his 2014 outlook. "We expect 2014 to be a year of normal EPS growth, normal PEs, normal total returns, but also normal volatility. Normal volatility includes at least one S&amp;P 500 price dip of 5% -9.9%. Since 1960, the only years when the S&amp;P didnít suffer a 5%+ dip were 1964, 1993 &amp; 1995."
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVAuthor Nassim Taleb has a good suggestion for doing New Year's Resolutions. He posted this on his Facebook page: PLEASE SHARE VIA NEGATIVA RULES. I am quite certain that new year resolutions don't really work, are more wishful thinking (gyms are full in January and empty in February)Ö except that interdicts have worked in history: halal/kashrut dietary laws, etc. I have personally never been successful with positive resolutions, but have been with stated negative year-end rules: in 2007 (never be late for the year 2008 which worked well by injecting redundancies, and seems to have effortless carried over to today) and 2012 (no reading outside of math for 2013, with weak exceptions). Intuitively this makes sense. Easier to eliminate some bad practice, rather than doing something new. We'll try in 2014.
This article is probably the most hypocritical article I ever wrote. But at the same time it is the most aspirational one, too. I know that I‚Äôd benefit from reading it a few times a year. I have implemented a lot of things I talk about in my life but not all. I have shared this piece with my readers before, but it is worth sharing at least once a year. October 26, 2011 One of the biggest hazards of being a professional money manager is that you are expected to behave in a certain way: You have to come to the office every day, work long hours, slog through countless e-mails, be on top of your portfolio (that is, check performance of your securities minute by minute), watch business TV and consume news continuously, and dress well and conservatively, wearing a rope around the only part of your body that lets air get to your brain. Our colleagues judge us on how early we arrive at work and how late we stay. We do these things because society expects us to, not because they make us better investors or do any good for our clients. Somehow we let the mindless, Henry Ford‚Äìassembly-line, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., widgets-per-hour mentality dictate how we conduct our business thinking. Though car production benefits from rigid rules, uniforms, automation and strict working hours, in investing ‚Äî the business of thinking ‚Äî the assembly-line culture is counterproductive. Our clients and employers would be better off if we designed our workdays to let us perform our best. Investing is not an idea-¬≠per-hour profession; it more likely results in a few ideas per year. A traditional, structured working environment creates pressure to produce an output ‚Äî an idea, even a forced idea. Warren Buffett once said at a Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting: ‚ÄúWe don‚Äôt get paid for activity; we get paid for being right. As to how long we‚Äôll wait, we‚Äôll wait indefinitely.‚Äù How you get ideas is up to you. I am not a professional writer, but as a professional money manager, I learn and think best through writing. I put on my headphones, turn on opera and stare at my computer screen for hours, pecking away at the keyboard ‚Äî that is how I think. You may do better by walking in the park or sitting with your legs up on the desk, staring at the ceiling. I do my best thinking in the morning. At 3:00 in the afternoon, my brain shuts off; that is when I read my e-mails. We are all different. My best friend is a brunch person; he needs to consume six cups of coffee in the morning just to get his brain going. To be most productive, he shouldn‚Äôt go to work before 11:00 a.m. And then there‚Äôs the business news. Serious business news that lacked sensationalism, and thus ratings, has been replaced by a new genre: business entertainment (of course, investors did not get the memo). These shows do a terrific job of filling our need to have explanations for everything, even random events that require no explanation (like daily stock movements). Most information on the business entertainment channels ‚Äî Bloomberg Television, CNBC, Fox Business ‚Äî has as much value for investors as daily weather forecasts have for travelers who don‚Äôt intend to go anywhere for a year. Yet many managers have CNBC, Fox or Bloomberg on while they work. You may think you‚Äôre able to filter the noise. You cannot; it overwhelms you. So don‚Äôt fight the noise ‚Äî block it. Leave the television off while the markets are open, and at the end of the day, check the business channel websites to see if there were interviews or news events that are worth watching. Don‚Äôt check your stock quotes continuously; doing so shrinks your time horizon. As a long-term investor, you analyze a company and value the business over the next decade, but daily stock volatility will negate all that and turn you into a trader. There is nothing wrong with trading, but investors are rarely good traders. Numerous studies have found that humans are terrible at multitasking. We have a hard time ignoring irrelevant information and are too sensitive to new information. Focus is the antithesis of multitasking. I find that I‚Äôm most productive on an airplane. I put on my headphones and focus on reading or writing. There are no distractions ‚Äî no e-mails, no Twitter, no Facebook, no instant messages, no phone calls. I get more done in the course of a four-hour flight than in two days at the office. But you don‚Äôt need to rack up frequent-flier miles to focus; just go into ‚Äúoff mode‚Äù a few hours a day: Kill your Internet, turn off your phone, and do what you need to do. I bet if most of us really focused, we could cut down our workweek from five days to two. Performance would improve, our personal lives would get better, and those eventual heart attacks would be pushed back a decade or two. Take the rope off your neck and wear comfortable clothes to work (I often opt for jeans and a ‚ÄúLife is good‚Äù T-shirt). Pause and ask yourself a question: If I was not bound by the obsolete routines of the dinosaur age of assembly-line manufacturing, how would I structure my work to be the best investor I could be? Print this article, take it to your boss and tell him or her, ‚ÄúThis is what I need to do to be the most productive.
For the past several years, there's been a chorus of folks warning non-stop about how inflation or hyperinflation was on the verge of coming roaring back. These inflation doomsayers were armed with a misunderstanding of monetary policy, an economic worldview that was overly influenced by politics, and also generally a large dose of misanthropy. And if you've read Business Insider for any length of time, then you know that we've been consistently on the other side of this debate. And our viewpoint has been correct, as inflation has been historically low by virtually any measure you want to pick. Here's a long look back at the year-over-year change in the CPI. You can see how achingly low inflation has been in recent years. FRED The world has become accustomed to the lack of inflation, which has been a major driver of asset prices. If profits are roaring, and there's absolutely zero pressure on the Fed to tighten, then it's a great time to be an investor. But just as the idea that the pre-crisis "Great Moderation" would be permanent proved to be a sham, so too will (eventually) the current "New Normal" with its perpetual lack of upward pressure on prices. Indeed, there are signs that the story is changing. Owners' equivalent rent ‚Äî which is how housing costs are imputed into the CPI ‚Äî is showing signs of lifting off. FRED The year-over-year growth in Average Hourly Wages are on a clear uptrend, even if each month is noisy. FRED Meanwhile, headline measures of inflation lately have been dragged down by factors that don't seem likely to persist. The year-over-year rate of growth in medical inflation has plunged lately, and the widespread belief is that this is likely to bounce back up at least a bit. FRED Meanwhile, we're benefiting from a major drop in gas prices compared to last year. FRED The gas trend might persist, but it's hard to know. Meanwhile, the tightening of the labor market looks likely to continue as the economy gains traction in 2014 (which is a good bet, as we explained here). And for the first time since the crisis ended, households are actually taking on more credit overall. St. Louis Fed So it seems likely that inflation ‚Äî something just hasn't been an issue at all in recent years ‚Äî is going to be at least somewhere on our radar again. Now what's crucial to understand here is that that's not a bad thing. The inflation doomers we talked about earlier were talking about inflation as this evil that will destroy the economy. In fact, it's a sign of the economy returning to health, and it's a signal for companies that they ought to invest. And it hopefully means a reversal of fortune for workers who have been stuck with no wage growth for awhile. But investors who are used to there being zero pressure on the Fed to even think about tightening might get a tad edgy. We're already seeing some shifts. As Matthew Boesler reported last week, bets on when we'll get the first actual rate hike are starting to come in a bit. Eventually the goldilocks story will give way to a new story. It has to. And as we close out 2013, we can feel the story changing, as long forgotten pressures in the economy build again.
As we come to the end of 2013, itís a good time to reflect on some of the biggest resources stories of the year. One that immediately comes to mind is the U.S. energy resurgence and its tremendous effect on oil and gas. Only a few years ago, we were contemplating the supply constraints facing the petroleum industry, as many major oil fields around the world were facing a decline in production. Now, with the disruptive technology in shale oil and gas, we may be looking forward to decades of drilling. Two charts clearly illustrate the incredible growth in oil and gas. While there are many shale areas around the U.S., there are a few notable hot beds of activity. Regarding the domestic production of tight oil, most of the growth has been in the Eagle Ford area thatís outside of San Antonio, Texas, the Bakken formation in Montana and North Dakota, and the Permian basin in West Texas. At the beginning of 2011, the selected shale areas shown below were producing less than 1 million barrels of tight oil per day. Now, production is nearing 2.5 million barrels per day.  Shale gas in the U.S. has also taken off in recent years, with the Marcellus shale in Pennsylvania and West Virginia, Haynesville in Louisiana and Texas, and Barnett in Texas contributing to the majority of the growth, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA). Since 2010, natural gas production among the many shale areas jumped from under 10 billion cubic feet per day to about 27 billion cubic feet per day.  Americaís ingenuity and success in extracting its oil and gas resources certainly seems to be unique. Even though shale areas are found around the world in Australia, Turkey, Russia and China, the U.S. is expected to supply the majority of light tight oil (LTO) to the world through 2035, as other countries are ìstruggling to replicateî the experience in the U.S., according to the International Energy Agency.  ìDrilling Multiple Horizontal Wells from a Single Padî As our resident expert on the natural gas and oil opportunities spouting out across the U.S., Evan Smith, CFA, portfolio manager of the Global Resources Fund (PSPFX), discussed the many investment opportunities recently with Streetwise Reports. In the published article in The Energy Report, Evan says that lately, the shale activity has been more oil-directed, particularly in the Bakken and Eagle Ford. For 2014, he believes there will be a delineation of acreage, focusing on pad drilling: "Continental Resources Inc. (CLR) is testing 16 wells per pad in the Williston Basin in North Dakota. The company will repeat that pattern and drive costs down. We've seen a big shift to multi-well pad drilling in 2013, but I think it's going to become much more standardized in 2014. The efficiencies that we've seen, which have led to more productivity with fewer rigs, will probably remain and perhaps even accelerate in 2014." Earlier this year, we said that oil explorers such as Continental, EOG Resources and Pioneer Natural Resources that were focused on high-margin shale drilling from Texas to North Dakota were set to outperform big oil companies, such as Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell. We thought these explorers were poised to reap bigger returns than that of energy titans fifteen times their market value, as they devoted almost all of their drilling capital to higher-margin, domestic crude wells. However, to make the most out of the energy renaissance, investors should look beyond these direct shale plays. As highlighted in The Wall Street Journal, ìanother boomî is being created in a key ingredient used in hydraulic fracturing: sand. The WSJ finds that companies that mine the ideal sand used to crack rocks and allow the oil and gas to flow out have increased substantially. For example, since going public in August 2012, shares of U.S. Silica have doubled, according to the WSJ. Refiners also benefit tremendously. Because crude oil exports are mostly prohibited, the oil is refined before being shipped to the rest of the world. As you can see in the chart, in recent years, the U.S. has moved from importing refined petroleum products prior to 2010 to exporting more than 1 million barrels per day as of September 2013.  In the Streetwise interview, Evan talks about more opportunities he sees in the pipeline. When you have some time over the next few days, I encourage you to read the interview to stay curious and gain insight for your portfolio. Looking for more on energy and resources from Frank Holmes? Share your email address and weíll send you a note the next time he posts to his blog. You can also keep informed by following us on Twitter or Facebook. Please consider carefully a fundís investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. For this and other important information, obtain a fund prospectus by visiting www.usfunds.com or by calling 1-800-US-FUNDS (1-800-873-8637). Read it carefully before investing. Distributed by U.S. Global Brokerage, Inc. Foreign and emerging market investing involves special risks such as currency fluctuation and less public disclosure, as well as economic and political risk. Because the Global Resources Fund concentrates its investments in a specific industry, the fund may be subject to greater risks and fluctuations than a portfolio representing a broader range of industries. Holdings in the Global Resources Fund as a percentage of net assets as of 09/30/2013: Continental Resources 2.41%, EOG Resources Inc. 0.0%, Exxon Mobil 0.0%, Pioneer Natural Resources Co. 2.36%, Royal Dutch Shell 0.0% All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. By clicking the link above, you will be directed to a third-party website. U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this website and is not responsible for its content. Diversification does not protect an investor from market risks and does not assure a profit. †
NetflixI've always been pretty traditional in my tastes for the best Christmas movie of all time. I've always been partial to "It's A Wonderful Life," since I watched it a lot growing up, there's a great financial/historical element to it, and well, just generally, it's hard to dislike. But this post by film blogger Ian Phillips, which I saw on Reddit, argues that the the Eddie Murphy film "Trading Places" ought to be considered one of the best Christmas movies, and as soon as I saw the post I realized it was obviously correct. This year happens to be the 30th anniversary of the movie, which is why my colleague Rob Wile published an oral history of the film this summer. If you haven't seen it, the gist is simple: Two fabulously wealthy brothers who own a commodities brokerage in Philadelphia debate whether genetics or upbringing is more important in a person's life. So they do an experiment. They fire their top broker (Dan Aykroyd) and frame him for a crime, forcing him to essentially live on the streets with no money. Then, at the same time, they take a nearly broke guy from the street (Eddie Murphy), and see if they can train him to be a commodities broker. Spoiler alert: Hijinks ensue, Dan Aykroyd turns to crime, Eddie Murphy becomes an awesome broker, showing that genes don't matter, and that it's all about upbringing. Eventually Aykroyd and Murphy realize how they've been toyed with and together they get revenge. Trading Places screenshotThe whole movie takes place around several days starting before Christmas and going through New Year's. In one memorable scene, Aykroyd crashes his old firm's Christmas party dressed as Santa Claus, which ends with him getting really drunk, stuffing meat from the buffet table into the pockets of his red coat, and then trying to eat it through his synthetic beard on the bus. It's a gag-worthy moment. In addition to the timing of the movie, there are Christmas (and Christian) themes throughout. For one thing, it's about how everyone can thrive, even those who are poor beggars, if given the right chance by someone. Dan Aykroyd's character gets back on his feet through the help of a prostitute he meets (Ophelia, played by Jamie Lee Curtis). During his down period, Aykroyd goes through a "no room at the inn" experience, when trying to visit his friends at his old tennis club (who are shunning him).¬† If you've never seen the movie, that's a crime, but also something you should really fix over the next week.
Daniel Goodman / Business Insider.comNEW YORK (Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co said it would open more than a third of its branches on Sunday to assist customers affected by the recent data breach at Target Corp. Target said on Thursday that computer hackers had stolen data from as many as 40 million credit and debit cards of shoppers who visited its stores during the first three weeks of the holiday season. In response to the breach, Chase on Saturday limited affected debit card accounts to cash withdrawals of $100 a day, as well as $300 a day for purchases using the card. It called the measures a precaution to prevent criminals from taking money from customer accounts. Customers who need more cash than $100 can access their funds at open branches, Chase said, adding that the highest density of branches open on Sunday were in the Northeast, California and the Southeast, with a priority on those near major shopping centers. (Reporting by Ryan Vlastelica; editing by Christopher Wilson)
Ugh.¬† Forex spammers who email you with guaranteed get-rich-quick-schemes have entered the Bitcoin game. This just landed in my inbox. Business Insider Here's an email I got seconds later from the same company. Business Insider
¬† Jonathan Ross, a sommelier at Eleven Madison Park, is responsible for resurrecting the Old World tradition of using heated tongs to open wine.¬† By placing the red-hot metal around the bottle neck, it makes a clean break and leaves the cork intact. The method originated in Portugal as an alternative to opening very old bottles of wine with corks that tended to crumble from age.
This is the most 2013 thing of the year. An Australian brand and marketing specialist and a programmer in Portland, Ore. who have never actually met have successfully combined the year's two greatest phenomena: Bitcoin, and doge.¬†The result: Dogecoin. And people are actually using it. If you're not familiar with the doge meme, it's hard to explain ‚Äî ¬†you sort of have to just see it yourself. Basically, someone on the Internet began posting images of Comic Sans thought bubbles in the imagined syntax of a devastatingly cute Shiba Inu dog. Variations on the meme look like this: DailyEdge.ie¬† There's no point to it; it's just one of those Internet things. But people love it ¬†‚Äî¬†you can see some "good ones" here.¬† About three weeks ago, Jackson Palmer, who by day works in Adobe's Sydney marketing department, and who'd been following developments in the cryptocurrency world, absentmindedly tweeted, "Investing in Dogecoin, pretty sure it's the next big thing." He got some replies encouraging him to pursue the idea, and a week later bought the domain Dogecoin.com. Inevitably, it got picked up on reddit, a hotbed of doge activity.¬† Meanwhile in Portland, Billy Markus had been trying to program his own digital currency that would appeal to a broader demographic than the profiteers who've flooded into Bitcoin. But the project had gone nowhere. Then he stumbled across Dogecoin.com¬†within a day or two of the site going live. "The¬†first thing I said was, 'This is so funny.' Then I said, 'I should just make this coin.'" He Tweeted at Palmer saying he wanted to go in on it, and before Palmer even responded, started reconfiguring Bitcoin's sourcecode, which is publicly available, to turn its user-facing elements into the doge meme.  Eventually Palmer wrote back, and the partnership was formed. A little more than a week after Palmer's jokey tweet, Dogecoin was launched. Again it got picked up on reddit, and instantly exploded. It is already ¬†the 13th¬†seventh-largest cryptocurrency, according to Coinmarketcap, with a market value (i.e. number of extant Dogecoins X price of $0.00086) of $8 million.¬†It now enjoys its own full blown ecosystem: in addition to the website, it has a dedicated blog and forum, and of course a subreddit. How has it done this? Largely through something called "tipping." If you're a geek who "performs" a "good deed" on the Internet, it's become common practice for people to "tip" you in your digital currency of choice. For instance: that kid¬†who held up up his Bitcoin wallet's QR-code¬†during ESPN's College Gameday got tipped thousands of dollars by the Bitcoin community for such a brilliant stroke of guerrilla marketing.¬† But it's become somewhat expensive to tip in Bitcoin, so people have turned to Dogecoin. Only about a week after launching, Dogecoin became the second-most-tipped currency, the pair say. They're hoping Facebook will accept a widget they've been working on that would allow friends to "tip" each other with dogecoin.  Still, what's so great about Dogecoin? Technically speaking, it's more of a variation on Litecoin, which runs on a cryptographic program called Scrypt. Like Litecoin, the time it takes to process a Dogecoin transaction is much shorter than for Bitcoin. There are also many more Dogecoins that will come into existence ‚Äî 100 billion versus 21 million. But it's the culture that's sprung up around it that's really driving it forward. Palmer says it comes down to having a lower barrier of entry for people who might be interested in cryptocurrencies but are turned off by either the price of or so-far dubious culture that surrounds Bitcoin.¬† "It's not taking itself as seriously, it's not being used by people ¬†worrying about whether they'll become rich," Palmer said. "It's something to share for thanks or kudos." Markus says his wife, who at first was turned off by his interest in Bitcoin, has started mining Dogecoin herself ‚Äî something you can do with your basic computer, unlike mining Bitcoin, which now requires industrial-strength processors. ¬† The pair say they have no intention of competing with Bitcoin, and both are still fervent believers in its potential to change online banking.¬† "It's a revolutionary technology, absolutely revolutionary," Markus says. "And it works as a store of value because it's deflationary, there will be a cap [on Bitcoins created]. It's just highly speculative, which makes it hard to use, to spend and spread it." How can you tell the Dogecoin phenomenon is not a joke? This morning, Bitcoin and most other altcoins are up about 20%. Dogecoin? Up 250% and counting. Wow.
REUTERS/Scott A. MillerJim CramerCramer has spotted a confluence of signs in the market that he hasn't seen since all at once, since the great bull market of the 1990s. That decade-long advance (which ended in March 2000) was the longest bull in history. It lasted 113 months, or more than nine years. It was also the biggest-gainer of all-time, posting a return of 417%. Although we can't say if this bull will be as powerful as that one, we can tell you that Cramer does expect these catalysts to drive the market even higher.  They follow: 1. Very negative developments are being resolved positively.  Cramer thinks the woes of Europe illustrate this tenet. That is, at its worst the overseas financial crisis looked as if it could last for decades but in a relatively short period of time it was contained and by 2013 showed signs of reversing.  2. Companies are generating bountiful profits. Cramer doesn't think it matters if those profits are organic or if they're bolstered by low interest rates due to stimulus. In 2013 corporate profits hit an all time high.  3. Companies are friendly to shareholders. "They're breaking themselves up or they're merging or they're raising dividends and doing gigantic buybacks, Cramer said. "I write about 21 of them in my soon-to-be-released book, Get Rich Carefully." Any way you slice it, they drives shares higher.  4. Jobs are becoming more plentiful. According to the latest jobs report, job creation moved forward again in November, with the U.S. economy adding a better-than-expected 203,000 to the employment rolls. The unemployment rate fell to 7 percent. Jobs are the genesis of a virtuous economic spiral.  5. Inflation remains tame. "Right now inflation is very modest," Cramer explained, and it allows rates to remain low. Low rates spark business creation.
Thanks to Bob¬†"I don't get out of bed unless it's over 20"¬†Pisani's daily diatribes about VIX (the so-called 'fear' index), we are supposed to rest assured that all is well in the ever-decreasing horizon world of equity markets. However, while VIX measures the expectations of 'normal' day to day moves in stocks, it does not offer any insight intomarket participants' perspectives on tail risks (or 'the big one'). CBOE's SKEW index does just that, based on the pricing differences between normal and fat-tail risk pricing in the options market, it provides a measure of the market's belief in extreme events... and for only the 4th time in history, it's¬†flashing a big red warning signal¬†of volatility ahead. The last 3 times this happened... markets went a little crazy... Bloomberg In 24 years of history, SKEW has been above 140 only 4 times (including the current)... the last 3 times were... And now?
U.S. Marine Corps Photo AS NEW YEAR approached a century ago, most people in the West looked forward to 1914 with optimism. The hundred years since the Battle of Waterloo had not been entirely free of disaster--there had been a horrific civil war in America, some regional scraps in Asia, the Franco-Prussian war and the occasional colonial calamity. But continental peace had prevailed. Globalisation and new technology--the telephone, the steamship, the train--had knitted the world together. John Maynard Keynes has a wonderful image of a Londoner of the time, "sipping his morning tea in bed" and ordering "the various products of the whole earth" to his door, much as he might today from Amazon--and regarding this state of affairs as "normal, certain and permanent, except in the direction of further improvement". The Londoner might well have had by his bedside table a copy of Norman Angell's "The Great Illusion", which laid out the argument that Europe's economies were so integrated that war was futile. Yet within a year, the world was embroiled in a most horrific war. It cost 9m lives--and many times that number if you take in the various geopolitical tragedies it left in its wake, from the creation of Soviet Russia to the too-casual redrawing of Middle Eastern borders and the rise of Hitler. From being a friend of freedom, technology became an agent of brutality, slaughtering and enslaving people on a terrifying scale. Barriers shot up around the world, especially during the Great Depression of the 1930s. The globalisation that Keynes's Londoner enjoyed only really began again in 1945--or, some would argue, in the 1990s, when eastern Europe was set free and Deng Xiaoping's reforms began bearing fruit in China. The driving force behind the catastrophe that befell the world a century ago was Germany, which was looking for an excuse for a war that would allow it to dominate Europe. Yet complacency was also to blame. Too many people, in London, Paris and elsewhere, believed that because Britain and Germany were each other's biggest trading partners after America and there was therefore no economic logic behind the conflict, war would not happen. As Keynes put it, "The projects and politics of militarism and imperialism, of racial and cultural rivalries, of monopolies, restrictions and exclusion, which were to play the serpent to this paradise, were little more than the amusements of [the Londoner's]...daily newspaper." Humanity can learn from its mistakes, as shown by the response to the economic crisis, which was shaped by a determination to avoid the mistakes that led to the Depression. The memory of the horrors unleashed a century ago makes leaders less likely to stumble into war today. So does the explosive power of a modern conflagration: the threat of a nuclear holocaust is a powerful brake on the reckless escalation that dispatched a generation of young men into the trenches. Yet the parallels remain troubling. The United States is Britain, the superpower on the wane, unable to guarantee global security. Its main trading partner, China, plays the part of Germany, a new economic power bristling with nationalist indignation and building up its armed forces rapidly. Modern Japan is France, an ally of the retreating hegemon and a declining regional power. The parallels are not exact--China lacks the Kaiser's territorial ambitions and America's defence budget is far more impressive than imperial Britain's--but they are close enough for the world to be on its guard. Which, by and large, it is not. The most troubling similarity between 1914 and now is complacency. Businesspeople today are like businesspeople then: too busy making money to notice the serpents flickering at the bottom of their trading screens. Politicians are playing with nationalism just as they did 100 years ago. China's leaders whip up Japanophobia, using it as cover for economic reforms, while Shinzo Abe stirs Japanese nationalism for similar reasons. India may next year elect Narendra Modi, a Hindu nationalist who refuses to atone for a pogrom against Muslims in the state he runs and who would have his finger on the button of a potential nuclear conflict with his Muslim neighbours in Pakistan. Vladimir Putin has been content to watch Syria rip itself apart. And the European Union, which came together in reaction to the bloodshed of the 20th century, is looking more fractious and riven by incipient nationalism than at any point since its formation. Two precautions would help prevent any of these flashpoints sparking a conflagration. One is a system for minimising the threat from potential dangers. Nobody is quite clear what will happen when North Korea implodes, but America and China need to plan ahead if they are to safeguard its nuclear programme without antagonising each other. China is playing an elaborately dangerous game of "chicken" around its littoral with its neighbours. Eventually, somebody is bound to crash into somebody else--and there is as yet no system for dealing with it. A code of maritime conduct for the area is needed. The second precaution that would make the world safer is a more active American foreign policy. Despite forging an interim nuclear agreement with Iran, Barack Obama has pulled back in the Middle East--witness his unwillingness to use force in Syria. He has also done little to bring the new emerging giants--India, Indonesia, Brazil and, above all, China--into the global system. This betrays both a lack of ambition and an ignorance of history. Thanks to its military, economic and soft power, America is still indispensable, particularly in dealing with threats like climate change and terror, which cross borders. But unless America behaves as a leader and the guarantor of the world order, it will be inviting regional powers to test their strength by bullying neighbouring countries. The chances are that none of the world's present dangers will lead to anything that compares to the horrors of 1914. Madness, whether motivated by race, religion or tribe, usually gives ground to rational self-interest. But when it triumphs, it leads to carnage, so to assume that reason will prevail is to be culpably complacent. That is the lesson of a century ago. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Photo by Andrew Burton/Getty Images WHEN his neighbour discovered gold in a Californian river in 1848, Sam Brannan could have kept quiet about it. Instead, he filled a jar with gold dust and rushed around the streets of San Francisco shouting "Gold! Gold! Gold!" He had good reason to incite a gold rush: he owned a shop nearby. He became California's first millionaire by selling picks, shovels, beans and bacon to the horde of prospectors who heeded his call. Gold fever spread fast. The lure of buried treasure "sucked nearly every free hand and available arm to the gold mines", observes H.W. Brands in "The Age of Gold", a brilliant history of the period. "They tore themselves from warm hearths and good homes, promising to return; they fled from cold hearts and bad debts, vowing never to return." The Alta California, a local paper, reported that "The whole country...resounds to the sordid cry of gold! GOLD!! GOLD!!!" It added that this would be the last issue for a while, since all its staff were heading for the gold fields. America's current shale-energy boom has plenty in common with the gold rush, and might prove as momentous. It has created a gusher of wealth in remote places. It has lured young men to wild frontier towns, such as Williston, North Dakota. Jim Cramer, a television host, sounded just like Brannan when he reported from North Dakota in 2011. "This new black gold rush is just getting started!" he bellowed, against a backdrop of nodding donkeys. "Listen, people in this country who need a job, get up here!" Unlike the Alta California, not all of The Economist's writers have headed for the frontier. But one correspondent, intrigued by the parallels between the two booms, put on stout boots, packed a copy of "The Age of Gold" and set off for Williston. For the '49ers--as the men who hurried west in that year became known--the trek to California was arduous. "Mules old enough to travel well were unavailable at any price," writes Brands. Prospectors who made their way overland went "at the pace of the slowest oxen [pulling their wagons], no more than two miles [3.2km] per hour". Many succumbed to cholera, thirst or Indian arrows. One group, on escaping from the most godforsaken tract of the Mojave desert, doffed their hats, turned back and said: "Goodbye, Death Valley!" "The name stuck," notes Brands. The journey to North Dakota today is more straightforward. Still, when your correspondent tried to reserve a rental car at Bismarck airport, they were sold out. He eventually found a pickup truck. Driving it through the Badlands was hairy: hundreds of huge oil lorries kept thundering in the opposite direction along narrow country roads. The pickup went much faster than an ox wagon, except in the traffic jam outside Williston, which looked like a long, motionless steel snake festooned with lights. A sign offered a cheerful welcome to "Boomtown, USA". The communities formed by the two groups of migrants have some striking similarities. For gold miners in California, life was almost as rough as the journey west had been. San Francisco in the summer of 1849 looked like "the bivouac of an army on the move", writes Brands; most of the buildings "were actually tents". The miners smelled awful. No one "could be bothered to wash dirty underwear, only to wash gold". Workers in Williston today generally have it easier--though newcomers sometimes sleep in their cars, which is not advisable in the winter, when temperatures often drop below minus 20∞C. Places to stay are scarce and expensive. Many oil workers live in "man camps", which look like college dormitories that have been built in a hurry. The companies that run them, such as Target Logistics of Texas, prefer the term "crew camps" to man camps; it sounds less burly and tattooed. But who are they kidding? When The Economist visited Tioga Lodge, one of Target's camps, 99% of the 930 residents were male. It is a bare-bones place for men who work long, sweaty hours to sleep and eat. Happily the food is free and unlimited. The kitchens chop up vast quantities of meat into portions just small enough to fit on a plate. "They eat a lot," says the chief cook, Jeff Ball, who used to cater for troops in Afghanistan. Some workers heap their trays with meat and potatoes in the dining room, then walk over to the cafeteria to load up with burgers, hot dogs and pizza. Your correspondent, at the salad bar, felt lonely. Mr Ball gives the oilmen whatever they want. If they crave blackened catfish and prawn gumbo like mom used to make in Louisiana, they can have it. Likewise if a crew from Mexico wants tamales. The only thing they can't have--in the man camp, at least--is alcohol. Oil firms prefer that dangerous machinery be handled by men with clear heads. Life in the gold fields was often violent. Miners drank and gambled and fought. Thieves and ruffians preyed on the weak and unwary. Justice was rough. Brannan, the shop-owner, led a committee of vigilantes. In June 1851 his men caught a gangster stealing a safe. After a two-hour "trial", they hanged him from a beam in a public square. Williston, too, has developed a bareknuckle reputation. "The theft up here is unbelievable," says a private detective hired by an insurer to investigate the disappearance of 15 truckloads of oil. "A lot of people here are trying to get a piece of the action without working." And, with so few women in the neighbourhood, many men are frustrated. "You put a bunch of guys together, working 12 hours a day, and they're going to get into fights," shrugs Josh Wipf, a mechanic from Montana who moved to Williston last year. Mr Wipf, who says the ratio of men to women in Williston "sucks", admits to having been in a bar fight himself. "It was about a girl, I think. I don't really remember. I was, you know..." he trails off. "They get rowdy when they get drunk," says Alice Trottier, a student at Williston State College. "I would never go out jogging alone at night now," she laments. Like many young females in Williston, she finds it annoying to be stared at all the time. On the plus side, scarcity gives women power. Men "treat you like a princess. They pay for everything," says Ms Trottier. On a good night waiting tables at a pizza joint she can make $200. In California during the gold rush, many men could only find female company if they paid for it. Life for boomtown prostitutes was rough and risky; some Chinese women, speaking no English, were in effect slaves to their pimps. But others made a lot of money. "At a time when a Paris streetwalker might make the equivalent of $2 a night, some of the Frenchwomen in San Francisco made $400," writes Brands. Belle Cora's brothel on Dupont Street was renowned for fine wine and music as well as sex. "Men with lust in their hearts...and gold in their pockets beat a path through the muddy streets to her door, where she made sure they wiped their feet before entering." The same trade exists today in Williston, but with fewer chandeliers and violins. Most paid hookups are probably arranged online: the oil workers all have smartphones. Some practise the oldest profession the old-fashioned way, but this can annoy bystanders. One of the staff at Bubba's Bubbles, a laundry shop, says she "had to kick out" a woman with a pink wig who was accosting male customers in the parking lot. The California gold rush was a low-tech affair. "No capital is required to obtain this gold, as the labouring man wants nothing but his pick, shovel and tin pan," wrote William Sherman, later a civil-war general, in a missive to President James Polk in 1848. It seemed to offer ordinary people a chance to get rich quick: one man, sifting through the dirt at the bottom of a stream, might conceivably find enough gold to retire on. Not a good chance, mind: only a lucky few prospectors struck the mother lode. The rest typically struggled to find enough ore to cover their expenses; some died poor and sorry, or quit panning to find a steadier job. Fracking, by contrast, requires capital and expertise. Oil giants such as Statoil and Schlumberger are flocking to North Dakota. They bring pricey, high-tech equipment, from microseismic sensors to drilling rigs that walk, like something out of "Star Wars". From little frack pads in the middle of vast wheat fields, they can drill four miles down, more than a mile to the side, and, thanks to satellite technology, hit a target three feet across. Then they shoot thousands of gallons of water, sand and chemicals into the shale formation, creating hairline fractures in the rock--hence the procedure's proper name, "hydraulic fracturing". The sand stops those fractures from closing up when the pressure is turned off. But North Dakota rewards ordinary folk, too. The lure is not a slender chance of becoming rich, but the near-certainty of finding a blue-collar job that pays middle-class wages. A roughneck or truck driver can easily make $100,000 a year. (Why did Mr Wipf make the trek from Montana? "Good money.") Anyone who can pass a drug test can find work. And just as the gold rush made shopkeepers and shovelmakers rich, so the spoils of gas are widely spread. A whole economy has sprung up to support the frackers. Someone has to build man camps, roads and schools. North Dakota Developments, a property developer, is trucking ready-made six-room housing units over from Minnesota and erecting them in what used to be a cornfield. Rob Gavin, the boss, says demand is so strong that he expects to recoup the development costs in a single year. The place is growing so fast that, even at boomtown wages, finding workers can be hard. Paul Coppinger, a boss at Weir-SPM, a firm that makes oil and gas pumps, says that only a couple of his 63 staff in Williston are native North Dakotans. The Walmart in town is the messiest your correspondent has ever seen; there are too few hands to tidy the shelves. Workers quit and take better jobs faster than you can say "frack". Theron Amos, the manager of the local Pizza Hut, says he has lost a fifth of his staff--in the past week. "I have 20. I need 30," he sighs, as he wrestles with the cash register and passes the shrieking phone to a colleague. "Oh, man, I've got more grey hairs than when I started this job." Would Mr Amos turn any applicant away? "Well, one woman came in and ordered a pitcher of beer before the job interview. I didn't hire her." The locals in 19th-century California were not consulted about the gold rush. Many Native Americans, who in previous decades had reached accommodations with Spanish and Mexican settlers, were murdered or infected with unfamiliar diseases. Scorched-earth offensives starved them off their land: since hunting them down was too time-consuming, one white soldier wrote, "It was therefore decided that the best policy was to destroy their huts and stores, with a view of starving them out." Their descendants live in reservations. Williston's natives are faring rather better. Because they can drill sideways, frackers can suck out the oil and gas under a huge farm while disturbing only a tiny part of it. So the farmer carries on rearing cows as before. The fracking takes place so far underground that he never notices it. But he notices the royalties that the energy firms pay. "Most farms round here have mineral income," says Tom Rolfstad of the Williston Economic Development office. A farmer with two square miles of land will get a signing bonus of $2.5m and nearly 20% of the gross value of the oil and gas pumped from it, he estimates. A good well can keep producing for 30 years and yield 500,000 barrels of oil. At $100 a barrel, that's $10m for the farmer. Even small landowners benefit. Mr Rolfstad gets regular little cheques for the oil and gas extracted below his modest home. Many of the ancestors of today's North Dakotans arrived at Ellis Island in the 19th century. "If you were Norwegian, they'd send you to North Dakota. If you didn't speak English, they'd give you a card round your neck asking people to help you find the right train," explains Mr Rolfstad. Under the Homestead Act of 1862, if the immigrants staked out 160 acres and farmed it for five years, they owned it--and their descendants own the mineral rights. In Europe, where such rights typically belong to the state, people resent the disruption fracking might cause. Americans, by contrast, tend to be delighted if a firm wants to frack under their land. And for landowners, the fracking itself is not the only money-spinner. A farmer with land near Williston will have no trouble renting it out. The town is desperate for more offices, homes, shops and hotels. In one small field your correspondent counted 50 mobile homes. One occupant, Cindy Martin, says the farmer charges her $1,000 a month to park there, with no electricity or water. "It's a terrible price," she complains. But the boom means labour is scarce and wages are high; Ms Martin makes twice as much as she would elsewhere, working at Bubba's Bubbles. She and her husband drove up 2,000 miles from Arizona. She seems content: "We came here to work. We refuse to lay back and let the government take care of us. We're too American for that." For all their good fortune, some locals fret about the crowding, pollution and change that accompany the new wealth. "It was a quiet, small town," laments Gary Daniel, a middle-aged Willistonian, as he eats fried chicken at Gramma Sharon's family restaurant. He has seen oil booms before, "but not like this one." People used to know each other in Williston, he recalls: "Now everyone's in a hurry to go nowhere." Prices have soared. Mr Daniel knows of old people whose rent quadrupled so they had to leave their homes. "It's flat-out greed," he spits. The schools are packed; their walls are "just bulging out". The traffic is "insane". Overall, "whether it's good or bad, I haven't made my mind up." Mr Rolfstad has fewer doubts. Growth is being carefully planned, he says. "We decided to double the size of the town. Then we decided to quadruple it." The gold rush of 1848-55 not only transformed the lives of those who found fortunes in the dirt (and those who failed to); it also changed America. It rapidly populated the new territory of California, which America had just seized from Mexico, and hastened the day that the Golden State became a state. It led to the construction of railroads to bind the settled eastern states to the Wild West. Its legacy includes San Francisco and America's thriving Chinese population (which exploded during the gold rush, as boatloads of Chinese prospectors arrived). Brands, the historian, goes further, arguing that gold transformed the American dream. Whereas the Puritans dreamed of accumulating modest fortunes "a little at a time, year by year", through "sobriety, thrift and steady toil", the '49ers dreamed of "instant wealth, won in a twinkling by audacity and good luck". Among the early settlers, failure "connoted weakness of will or defect of soul". In the gold fields, by contrast, "a person was expected to gamble, and to fail, and to gamble again". And "[w]here failure was so common, it lost its stigma." This idea--that failure is a socially acceptable stepping stone to success--is one reason why American capitalism is so dynamic. The fracking boom could be every bit as important as the gold rush. It is about to turn America into the world's largest oil and gas producer, outstripping Russia and Saudi Arabia. It could add almost $700 billion to the economy by 2020 (about 4% of GDP), predicts McKinsey, a consultancy. By then it will have created up to 1.7m jobs--far more than the car industry provides. The sudden abundance of natural gas has drastically reduced American energy bills while curbing greenhouse-gas emissions, since gas is cleaner than coal. The longer term effects of a boom are unpredictable. For instance, the gold rush arguably led to the creation of Silicon Valley. It spurred the laying of the railroads, making Leland Stanford rich. He founded Stanford University, which trained the engineers who started the tech firms, from Hewlett-Packard to Google, which made the Valley the envy of the world. In North Dakota fracking has poured money into schools. Some of those Norwegian immigrants used to set aside a portion of their farmland income to support the village school. That rule lives on, in places, and the land now generates mineral royalties. No one expects to see a great university emerge in the Great Plains just yet. But you never know. Who in 1849 could have predicted that the empty hills around San Francisco would one day sprout an Apple? Life in the gold fields was often violent. Miners drank and gambled and fought † The lure is not a slender chance of becoming rich, but the near-certainty of finding a blue-collar job that pays middle-class wages † Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Let's start with a wicked-brilliant essay by Dr. Woody Brock. It is way too long and penetrating to cover fully in this letter, but we can glean some bits of wisdom. The world has been focused on central banks and the ending of QE. But Woody muses about a second dimension to this issue. If the true winner under a zero-interest-rate policy (ZIRP) has been the shadow banking system (as many, including your humble analyst, have observed) what distortions are baked into the market? What will happen as ZIRP finally goes away? Woody asks questions not unlike those Jonathan Tepper and I ask in¬†Code Red: But what about the¬†second¬†dimension to the unwinding of ultra-easy monetary policy, namely, higher Fed funds rates and an upward shift in the entire yield curve ‚Äì for reasons having nothing to do with QE? This is seldom discussed. From the research we have carried out, it is this second dimension of the end of easy monetary policy that is the more important of the two. The nation has never experienced¬†six years¬†of hyper-low interest rates. What impact has this had on the restructuring of the balance sheets of insurers and banks? In striving to match assets and liabilities across 24 consecutive quarters of near-zero rates, what tricks might financial institutions have played (reaching-for-yield via derivative positions) that could backfire and occasion a financial crisis once the yield curve rises from the dead? In particular, what about the increased utilization of new "collateral and maturity transformation" schemes that could occasi on future panics? And yet, the latest Fed papers are all about "forward guidance." They suggest that, rather than QE, it is forward guidance promising a low-rate regime that is far more effective in producing the Fed's desired ends. So if I read those papers and speeches correctly, we could be in a ZIRP-type policy for another three years. Where rates are starkly negative and investors are forced to seek yield in new and creative ways if they do not want to see their buying power eroded. But where we have little or no experience, and there might be a serious mismatch in duration. Leverage Giveth and Leverage Taketh Away Rewind to 2008-2009. What follows comes under the heading of full disclosure about painful lessons and a warning to those currently reaching for yield in new places. Without going into details, some (ok, a lot) of us had money invested in hedge funds that were part of the shadow banking system. There were all sort of creative funds invented to take private credit sources and circumvent normal banking functions. Life was good for a time, as "small" investors were able to get the returns normally reserved for banks. Except in cases of extreme leverage, we are not talking about lights-out numbers, just nice and steady high single-digit or low double-digit returns. You could analyze the risks of the underlying investments and decide whether you were comfortable with the focus of the manager or fund. But as it turns out, the main risk you were taking had less to do with the actual investments but more to do with your fellow investors and their fetish for liquidity in times of stress. Many of the funds in the shadow banking system had relatively short-duration money, which was invested in longer-term loans and financial structures. When everyone tried to redeem at once, the exits got crowded. Chaos ensued. It was not unlike ‚Äì or maybe in some cases it was exactly like ‚Äì an old-fashioned bank run. Funds were forced to sell assets that were technically "good" but for which there were no buyers, except for investors who were picking up distressed debt. It was common to get assets at 50 cents on the dollar or less if you had ready cash. But those sales locked in significant losses for the sellers, and there was often modest leverage involved, which compounded the losses. Leverage giveth and leverage taketh away. Other than the distressed-debt funds, which had a field day, there were only a few funds where the investors ended up OK. But those were funds where the investors' money was locked up so they were forced to sit through the crisis. Yes, if you looked at the mark-to-market returns over the short term, it was ugly (VERY ugly in some cases) on paper; but during the next few years, as price normalcy returned, valuations climbed back to normal and interest rates pushed returns over time to what should have been expected. Two lessons here: One is that you need to make sure the credit funds (and actually, any funds) you are invested in have the ability to match the duration risk of the source of their funds AND of their (your fellow!) investors, with their underlying investments. As an easy example, if you are invested in a fund that makes three-year loans and offers daily or monthly liquidity, if that fund has sudden demands for withdrawal, it will be forced to sell assets in the open market and take immediate losses to return that money. That is clearly not good! But if there is a three-year hold or lock-up for withdrawals, the fund can manage withdrawal requests in a normal fashion as the underlying investments mature. Investors who want to stay in the fund do not suffer from the need for liquidity of their fellow investors. In today's environment, the reach for yield is once again pushing investors into creative practices. Some funds are built to withstand a crisis, and others will get crushed. You must do your homework up front, and that includes thinking about what would happen to the underlying assets if another crisis comes along. And the second lesson? You have to think about your own need for liquidity. If I came to you and told you that I loved your work, I might go on and on about the quality of your product, your work ethic, your productivity, etc., and then say I wanted to offer you a job. You might at least be interested and want to hear the offer. But if I then offered you minimum wage, you would just laugh and walk away, wondering what planet I was on. But so many investors are willing to invest their money for minimum wage and maximum risk because of a personal fetish for liquidity.¬†The last two bear markets have made us (appropriately) concerned about the safety of our money and left us keenly aware that we need to be able to run for the hills when the time comes to do so. But the pain of two bear markets has also caused us to seek protective mechanisms that might not be helpful in terms of our longer-term objectives. Liquidity is one of those protective mechanisms. Liquidity costs money. Providers of liquidity have to provide either lower-return vehicles in the form of credit-type funds or increased risk in by way of equity-focused funds. This is a theme I am going to visit a lot in 2014. You need to divide your investable assets into "liquidity or time buckets." Very few of us actually need access to all our funds at a moment's notice. We can take some of our funds and tie them up for longer periods of time; and if we think through what we invest in, we can get more than minimum wage for our investments. In essence, for a portion of our money, we should be sellers of time or of liquidity risk. When you begin to think of your investment process as selling the time value of your money and seeking areas where people will pay you the most for your time, as we do in our work-related activities, I submit you might have more long-term success. We are going to explore this idea at length in the next year and look at actual ways we can do this. I have been working for six months with a new associate, Worth Wray, developing a new focus on actual portfolio design; and shortly after the first of the year we will begin to publish. We are still dotting the final¬†i's and crossing the last¬†t's of the regulatory issues surrounding the process, but I am excited about what we will be able to do for you. What we hope to provide is a practical approach to investing in Code Red world. What Does Tapering Really Mean? But back to QE and ZIRP. After the Fed announcement last week, I was asked in one interview, "What will tapering really mean?" My honest answer is, I don't know, and I don't think the Fed does either, not in their heart of hearts. And if they think they really know ‚Äì scout's honor ‚Äì then they are delusional. We can guess. Draw analogies. Play thought games. Try to "war game" the process. I have had some intense debates with people who are way smarter than I am, trying to come to some certainty. But at the end of the day, this has been an experiment without precedent. Has QE distorted foreign reserves in emerging markets, and will its withdrawal be an issue there? Is the stock market dependent on new reserves? We simply don't know. We are getting ready to find out. Does the Fed's buying of massive amounts of mortgages really make a difference? We don't REALLY know, although you can find people who will argue either side of any of those and another dozen questions. And make a lot of sense in doing so. We are running the economy on an untested set of academic theories. Maybe they are right, although I do not think so. I am wary of actions that grossly distort market behavior, because a small group of people (central bankers) want 330 million (or maybe even billions) of people to change their self-interested actions, and offer us incentives to do so. There has been almost total academic and bureaucratic capture of the Federal Reserve. When the Fed was established, bankers ran it (an approach that has its own set of issues), but now the process is driven by academics who mostly adhere to a group-think view of how economics works. Look at the following chart from an¬†article¬†in this week's¬†Wall Street Journal¬†entitled "Fed Governors Increasingly Have Academic Backgrounds." Mauldin Quoting from the article: The report flags the fact that the only current governor with direct regulatory experience is¬†Sarah Bloom Raskin, who previously supervised banks as Maryland Commissioner of Financial Regulation. And she's likely on her way out after having been nominated to a position at the Treasury. Fed governor¬†Jerome Powell¬†has held a wide portfolio of jobs: lawyer, investor, private business and a stint at the Treasury under¬†George H.W. Bush¬†dealing with financial institutions. Fed governorDaniel Tarullo, after a series of government jobs, came to the Fed from¬†Georgetown University Law Center, where he taught on banking issues. The report categorizes governors going back to the founding of the Federal Reserve a century ago, and finds that the domination of the board by academics goes back some way. It's only until one rolls the clock back to the 1960s do those with governmental banking oversight profiles make a strong showing. While the report doesn't analyze the current leaders of the regional Fed banks ‚Äì they lead the institutions where most of the actual bank oversight takes place, even as it's controlled from Washington ‚Äì those officials are also by and large academic economists. Only Boston's¬†Eric Rosengren¬†and Kansas City's¬†Esther George¬†have extensive direct experience in bank supervision. Meanwhile, Dallas Fed bossRichard Fisher¬†has an extensive and successful background as an investor, while Atlanta Fed chief¬†Dennis Lockhart¬†was a long-time banker who also spent time in academia. And what are they telling us about the future they have planned? It is going to turn out extremely well, they say. As a group they are forecasting economic Nirvana by at the end of 2016: a 3% GDP growth rate, 2% inflation, and a 5.5% unemployment rate. What would you expect the Fed funds rate to be in such a world? Might you assume that you would at least get some inflation premia? Think again. They are forecasting a median Fed funds rate for 2016 of 1.75%, which is a 0.25% negative risk-free return! I have highlighted in the past how truly abysmal the models are that the Fed uses to forecast economic conditions. It is almost statistically impossible, as numerous researchers have documented, to do as badly as Federal Reserve economic forecasts have done, although the Office of Management and Budget and other congressional forecasters give them a run for their money. The latter have the partial excuse of being economists employed by politicians. The Fed has no such excuse. Their models are just plain bad. I truly hope these people are right. I really do. But eight years without a recession in an environment where interest rates have been aggressively repressed for all that time? What distortions are we creating? What shocks await as we adjust? Will this test of a theory end without tears? We have no choice but to wait and find out. And invest our portfolios for the uncertainty into which we are headed. Which brings us back full circle to Woody. After highlighting the distortions in the shadow banking and financial systems of the world, he notes other research, such as that of Bill White, which I have written about at some length. White was at the BIS and posted a paper at the Dallas Federal Reserve that is an important critique of Fed policy. We should pay attention, because he is one of the academics who actually forecast the credit crisis of 2007-10 prior to its happening. Let's jump to Woody's conclusion (emphasis mine): The purpose of this PROFILE has been to examine some of the unintended consequences of the ultra-easy monetary policy we have experienced both here in the US and overseas since 2008. We have seen at least a dozen ways in which today's long period of very easy money and very low yields has distorted the workings of the financial system. This will cause unintended consequences in the near future as QE is ended, and as the funds rate is driven back up from near zero. Many of these will be adverse consequences. The best note on which to end this paper is to restate what we have stressed repeatedly during recent years ‚Äî as have many central bankers worldwide: Much too much has been asked of monetary policy in dealing with a very serious macroeconomic breakdown. Via the Tinbergen "controllability theorem" that we often cite, it is not that monetary policy does not help; it clearly does. Rather it is that no matter how "easy" monetary policy has been, it will never suffice to generate a normal recovery on its own. We emphasize that this is a theorem, not merely an opinion. Proper fiscal and regulatory policies are needed to complement the central bank's efforts. Had all three of these policy knobs on the dashboard been jointly optimized, as is required in the Tinbergen-Arrow-Kurz theory, there would have been no need for monetary policy to have been ULTRA√¢‚Ç¨ easy. The Funds rate could have bottomed at 2%, and much less QE would have been required. As a result, many of the future "risks" we have detailed would not exist. This last point has been perhaps the most central theme of our 2013 PROFILE essays: What matters is optimal macroeconomic policy and controllability. Accordingly, the market's obsession with the only game in town (monetary policy) is badly misplaced. What scholars such as William White and Jeremy Stein have done is to warn us that, aside from not serving to generate meaningful recoveries, ultra-easy monetary policy has created myriad new risks of the kind we have described. Historians will one day assess ex post whether this unprecedented monetary policy gamble was successful on a "net" basis. What Will the Stock Market Do? Finally, a brief note that I got from Ron Surz, setting out what stock market returns might be in 2014. I offer his words and chart and then a comment: Now that this great 2013 is coming to an end, everyone is wondering what will follow in 2014. There is a formula that can help us couch our outlook. It goes like this: Return = Dividend + (1 + Earnings Growth) X (1 + P/E expansion/contraction) ‚Äì 1 The following table uses this formula to peek into 2014. The cell highlighted in yellow ‚Äì earnings growth of 6% and an ending P/E of 15 ‚Äì is the average long-term situation. In other words, if 2014 is "average," we'll see a 16% loss. But what if it's not average? The purple cells highlight a band around the average and indicate a performance range between a 13% gain and an 18% loss. Earnings Growth End P/E -4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 10 -49 -47 -46 -45 -44 -43 -42 -41 15 -24 -22 -21 -19 -18 -16 -14 -13 20 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 25 32 35 37 40 43 45 48 51 30 58 61 65 68 71 74 57 80 35 84 88 92 95 99 103 106 110 Source: PPCA Inc I find this chart useful, in that to believe the stock market will rise next year you have to believe that we will see SIGNIFICANTLY above-forecast growth in earnings, which is hard to conclude from recent corporate financial releases,¬†or¬†that P/E ratios will rise. While I doubt the former, it is quite possible that we'll see a rise in earnings multiples if investors keep their optimistic, momentum-driven psychology in place. That sort of thing has happened a lot. What will actually happen? I have no idea that is better than your own, and mine could be worse (and probably is) because when I analyze the situation I probably way overthink it. Corona del Mar, Dubai, Saudi Arabia, and Canada I am in San Diego as I finish this letter and will drive up the coast in a bit to Corona del Mar to attend my friend Rob Arnott's annual Christmas party and watch the Newport Beach Parade of Lights, a nighttime parade of fabulously lit-up boats and yachts through the harbor. I was there a few years ago and was amazed at how spectacular it was.¬†TomorrowI will be home for the holidays until¬†January 8, when I leave for Dubai and then Riyadh for a week. Then I am back home for a week before flying to Vancouver, Edmonton, and Regina for a three-day speaking tour at the respective cities' annual CFA forecast dinners. A note from a reader in Edmonton pointed out that it is already -30 there. I think I may try to find my thermal underwear. I should note that Mauldin Economics Publisher Ed D'Agostino recently interviewed Grant Williams, editor of the wildly popular¬†Things That Make You Go Hmmm...¬†and¬†Bull's Eye Investor,¬†about global macroeconomic policy and how it relates to the¬†Bull's Eye Investorportfolio. In this "warts and all" interview, Ed and Grant discuss what worked in 2013, what didn't work and why it didn't work, and how¬†Bull's Eye Investor¬†will target opportunity in the coming year. As always, Grant's analysis, as you will see, is spot on. He has the unique ability to distill complex "big picture" perspectives into actionable investment ideas.¬†Click here¬†to see the video interview between Ed and Grant now. I spent time with Jon Sundt and the newly¬†announced¬†Chief Investment Officer of Altegris Investments, Jack Rivkin. Jack and I first met years ago in Phoenix at a symposium conducted by the Thunderbird School. He is one of the intellectual thought leaders in the investment world and has been enormously successful in his career, heading up Neuberger Berman before his first retirement to a life of cutting-edge venture capital and private equity. I love hearing his stories of high-tech start-ups. We share a lot of the same interests and a fascination with the future. The owners of Altegris enticed him out of retirement to come and take the reins of their investment process, and that makes me enormously happy. Jack is an investment force of nature and will help shape a direction that will give us ways to manage assets that make sense in a Code Red world. I spent an evening over a steak with him last night, and I really look forward to sharing his ideas and energy with you in the coming years. In theory, when we get back to Dallas, the apartment will be 98% finished. I might even be given the iPad minis that control the electronics and allowed to play! There should be no more major construction crews, just people putting in door hardware when it shows up, some art here and there, etc. Reviews from friends are going well, but the credit all goes to my niece, who is responsible for the design and architecture. She is used to designing Ritz-Carltons and suites in Abu Dhabi, Macau, and Vegas and has recently gone out on her own. The timing was lucky for me, although she managed to destroy what I thought was my budget. But it has been totally worth it. The only limiting factors¬† have been my personal tastes, which she has worked diligently to expand, and my budget. But she keeps pointing out that she has done a lot with little and helped me get good value. As a value investor, how could I argue? It is time to hit the send button. I am at the Hyatt La Jolla, where we held the first seven of ten Strategic Investment Conferences. The place is home to so many good memories, and they were kind enough to give me the big suite for the night, which, perhaps because of those memories, is one of my favorite hotel rooms in the world. The gym next door is world-class, and I will spend a few hours working off that steak before driving on up to Rob‚Äôs soiree. And perhaps we'll engage in a little more investment talk, as he tends to attract some very talented friends in the industry. I guess that just happens when you manage $100 billion or so, as he does from his shop at Research Affiliates. (Rob is no stranger to longtime readers. You know him as the intellectual driver behind the extremely successful All-Asset Fund at PIMCO and through his patented Fundamental Indexes.) Have a great week. I see Christmas dinner with all the kids and grandkids and friends, although it will be a smaller event than Thanksgiving was. I will shut down on Christmas Eve afternoon to go into chef mode for a few days, and then try and relax at home for a few weeks. Your more optimistic than ever analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com Copyright 2013 John Mauldin. All Rights Reserved. Thoughts From the Frontline¬†is a free weekly economic e-letter by best-selling author and renowned financial expert, John Mauldin. You can learn more and get your free subscription by visiting¬†http://www.mauldineconomics.com. To subscribe to John Mauldin's e-letter, please click here:http://www.mauldineconomics.com/subscribe Thoughts From the Frontline¬†and MauldinEconomics.com is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and those that he interviews. Any views expressed are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest and is not in any way a testimony of, or associated with, Mauldin's other firms. John Mauldin is the Chairman of Mauldin Economics, LLC. He also is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA) which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states, President and registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS) member¬†FINRA¬†and¬†SIPC, through which securities may be offered. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as well as an Intr oducing Broker (IB) and NFA Member. Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. This message may contain information that is confidential or privileged and is intended only for the individual or entity named above and does not constitute an offer for or advice about any alternative investment product. Such advice can only be made when accompanied by a prospectus or similar offering document. Past performance is not indicative of future performance. Please make sure to review important disclosures at the end of each article. Mauldin companies may have a marketing relationship with products and services mentioned in this letter for a fee. Note: Joining the Mauldin Circle is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and Millennium Wave Investments. It is intended solely for investors who have registered with Millennium Wave Investments and its partners at¬†www.MauldinCircle.com¬†or directly related websites. The Mauldin Circle may send out material that is provided on a confidential basis, and subscribers to the Mauldin Circle are not to send this letter to anyone other than their professional investment counselors. Investors should discuss any investment with their personal investment counsel. John Mauldin is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA), which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states. John Mauldin is a registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS), an FINRA registered broker-dealer. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as wel l as an Introducing Broker (IB). Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. Millennium Wave Investments cooperates in the consulting on and marketing of private and non-private investment offerings with other independent firms such as Altegris Investments; Capital Management Group; Absolute Return Partners, LLP; Fynn Capital; Nicola Wealth Management; and Plexus Asset Management. Investment offerings recommended by Mauldin may pay a portion of their fees to these independent firms, who will share 1/3 of those fees with MWS and thus with Mauldin. Any views expressed herein are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest with any CTA, fund, or program mentioned here or elsewhere. Before seeking any advisor's services or making an investment in a fund, investors must read and examine thoroughly the respective disclosure document or offering memorandum. Since these firms and Mauld in receive fees from the funds they recommend/market, they only recommend/market products with which they have been able to negotiate fee arrangements. PAST RESULTS ARE NOT INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS. THERE IS RISK OF LOSS AS WELL AS THE OPPORTUNITY FOR GAIN WHEN INVESTING IN MANAGED FUNDS. WHEN CONSIDERING ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS, INCLUDING HEDGE FUNDS, YOU SHOULD CONSIDER VARIOUS RISKS INCLUDING THE FACT THAT SOME PRODUCTS: OFTEN ENGAGE IN LEVERAGING AND OTHER SPECULATIVE INVESTMENT PRACTICES THAT MAY INCREASE THE RISK OF INVESTMENT LOSS, CAN BE ILLIQUID, ARE NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE PERIODIC PRICING OR VALUATION INFORMATION TO INVESTORS, MAY INVOLVE COMPLEX TAX STRUCTURES AND DELAYS IN DISTRIBUTING IMPORTANT TAX INFORMATION, ARE NOT SUBJECT TO THE SAME REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AS MUTUAL FUNDS, OFTEN CHARGE HIGH FEES, AND IN MANY CASES THE UNDERLYING INVESTMENTS ARE NOT TRANSPARENT AND ARE KNOWN ONLY TO THE INVESTMENT MANAGER. Alternative investment performance can be volatile. An investor could lose all or a substantial amount of his or her investment. Often, alternative investment fund and account managers have t otal trading authority over their funds or accounts; the use of a single advisor applying generally similar trading programs could mean lack of diversification and, consequently, higher risk. There is often no secondary market for an investor's interest in alternative investments, and none is expected to develop. All material presented herein is believed to be reliable but we cannot attest to its accuracy. Opinions expressed in these reports may change without prior notice. John Mauldin and/or the staffs may or may not have investments in any funds cited above as well as economic interest. John Mauldin can be reached at¬†800-829-7273.
APBarack Obama shakes hands with Raul Castro in South Africa. HAVANA (Reuters) - Cuban President†Raul Castro†on Saturday called on the†United Statesto establish civilized relations with his country, recognizing a new tone in bilateral talks on secondary issues while reiterating that the country's political and economic system were non-negotiable. The†United States†and†Cuba†have appeared more positive of late as talks around immigration, postal services, disaster prevention and other security issues have taken place, with officials from both countries cautiously welcoming each other's pragmatism and seriousness in interviews with Reuters. Castro, closing a year-end meeting of the parliament, said that recently the two countries, bitter foes for more than half a century, had been able "to hold conversations on topics of mutual interest." "We think we can resolve other matters of interest," he said, without elaborating. Castro said that "a civilized relationship between both countries" was something "our people and the immense majority of U.S. citizens and Cuban immigrants desire." Castro's speech came just two weeks after he and U.S. President†Barack Obama†shook hands at a memorial for the late†Nelson Mandela. The†White House†played down the handshake, saying it was unplanned and went no further than pleasantries. Still, the meeting had resonance because of the surprise warming in recent months with several instances of cooperation. U.S. and Cuban officials overcame a series of potentially divisive incidents this summer, including the interception of a shipment of Cuban weapons headed for†North Korea, with mutual displays of prudent diplomacy rarely seen since the 1959 revolution that broughtFidel Castro†to power. At a fund-raising dinner in Miami last month, Obama said that it may be time for the†United States†to revise its policies toward†Cuba, against which a trade embargo has been in place for more than half a century. Obama questioned whether the policy that was put in place in 1961 remains an effective way of dealing with U.S. differences with the Communist-ruled island nation. While Castro on Saturday seemed to be holding out an olive branch, at the same time he reiterated†Cuba's position, held since the 1959 revolution, that neither†Cuba's one-party rule, nor its economic system, were on the table. "We do not demand that the†United States†change its political and social system, nor do we accept negotiating ours," he said. "If we really want to move forward in our bilateral relations, we have to learn to mutually respect our differences and become accustomed to peacefully living with them," he said to applause from the parliament deputies. A significant breakthrough in relations remains unlikely while†Cuba†continues to detain aU.S. government†contractor,†Alan Gross, who was arrested 4 years ago for what†Cuba†saw as a subversive effort to promote political change. Gross said he was in†Cuba†to set up communications equipment to give unrestricted Internet access to Jewish groups. A Cuban judge said that activity was a crime against the state and sentenced Gross to 15 years. It remains unclear what steps the†Obama administration†can take to obtain Gross's release.Cuba†has hinted it would release him in return for four Cubans jailed on espionage charges in the†United States, but Washington has flatly ruled that out. (Editing by David Adams and Gunna Dickson)
REUTERS/Umit BektasTurkey's Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan is not happy.ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish authorities have removed another 25 police chiefs from their posts, media reported, widening a crackdown on the force since it launched a corruption investigation that Prime Minister¬†Tayyip Erdogan¬†has called a "dirty operation" against his rule. Erdogan accused "international groups" and "dark alliances" on Saturday of encouraging the graft investigations and signaled the purge of people behind it would continue. The furore has roiled markets and exposed deep rifts between Erdogan and his former ally Fethullah Gulen, a U.S.-based Islamic preacher who wields influence in the police and judiciary. Twenty-four people have been formally arrested under the corruption investigation, including the sons of two government ministers and the general manager of state-ownedHalkbank. Scores have also been detained. In response, about 70 police officers, including the powerful head of¬†Istanbul's force, have now been sacked or moved to different posts since the detention of bribery suspects began last week. Erdogan's position is under no immediate threat, but the row between his ruling¬†AK Partyand Gulen's Hizmet movement could help decide local elections due in March. The prime minister said on Saturday the crackdown on people behind the corruption investigation would continue. "Those who want to establish a parallel structure alongside the state, those who have infiltrated into the state institutions ... we will come into your lairs and we will lay out these organizations within the state," he said in a speech in the northern city of¬†Ordu. Erdogan has refrained from naming Gulen, but years of disagreements between the two men spilled out into the open last month over a government plan to abolish private "Prep" schools, including those run by Hizmet. The schools, part of a network with global reach, are an important source of revenue and bedrock of Hizmet's influence. One of the first moves by¬†Istanbul's new police chief,¬†Selami Altinok, was to ban journalists from entering police stations across the country, local media reported on Sunday. (Reporting by Humeyra Pamuk; Editing by Andrew Heavens)
