flickr/Adam SelwoodDeutsche Bank strategists Rocky Fishman,†Salil Aggarwal, and†Lon Parisi are out with a note warning clients that a "perfect storm" of structural, demand, and supply-driven factors could conspire to cause a "major pullback" in oil prices, with the potential to derail the rally in the U.S. stock market as well. "A†major pullback in oil prices could have a concentrated effect on the S&amp;P energy and industrials sectors, with perhaps further sentiment knock-on effects," write the strategists. "After WTI's brief pullback from its peak last month, it may be time to at least consider this possibility." West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil prices have rallied from a low of $84.05 a barrel on November 7 to $106.88 at Friday's close, returning 27.2% over the past nine months. "Oil is now, according to our commodities team, the most richly traded commodity in the world in real terms after massive appreciation over a multi-year horizon," says the Deutsche Bank team. "However, structural, demand-driven, and supply-driven catalysts exist for a near-term pullback ñ and a 'perfect storm' of a multiple of these factors could cause an even more significant move." Fishman, Aggarwal, and Parisi bullet the three factors that could come together to cause a perfect storm for oil prices: Deutsche Bank chief U.S. equity strategist David Bianco hiked his year-end price target for the S&amp;P 500 in mid-July, citing "recent WTI oil price strength despite the climb in Treasury yields and the dollar." Bianco also spelled out the logical inverse of his call: "A surge in yields or oil price collapse has long been the chief risks to our strategically bullish view." Fishman, Aggarwal, and Parisi say Bianco "sees [the S&amp;P 500] as always long oil." "As a weak [S&amp;P 500] ex-financials quarter unfolds, we are starting to believe further 'earnings power bad news' could make the market revisit its recent multiple expansion altogether," write the strategists. "This could doubly impact selected energy names, so we think that hedges in the energy complex ñ services, [exploration and production], integrateds ñ may be especially efficient going forward. In a sense, the [S&amp;P 500's] overall multiple could start to be weakened by the oil complexís earnings potential." The Deutsche Bank team stresses that it is in fact bullish on oil in the near term, but says low price volatility in both oil and energy sector equities makes now a good time to hedge those bullish bets, given the structural, demand, and supply-driven factors highlighted in the note.
This is for all of the gentlemen out there with the too-wide shirts that billow out in the front like a sheet (bad). This is also for the guys with the too-tight-over-the-chest-shirts where the buttons look like they're about to burst (even worse). Hugh and Crye is a D.C.-based men's clothing company with a distinct way of sizing their shirts. With two questions on their site they take into account a guy's height and body type to find a more precise fit from a range of 12 sizes (you can check out their sizing chart below). Dress shirts are priced at $85, blazers come in at $245. Founders Pranav Vora and Philip Soriano launched the company in 2010 for the same reason their clients go there ó they thought the shirts they were buying in stores could fit better. "There's typically too much fabric around the chest and waist, and through the sleeve. The other end of the spectrum is 'custom', which is often made-to-measure - an unfulfilled promise," said Vora. "The fit of most made-to-measure/custom shirts can be inexact, take a lot of time to fix and can be costly. We noticed that guys were generally just dealing with the options offered to them." Yes, this is all a part of what everyone's saying about men's fashion ó it's getting better, more stylish. But style falls to pieces if it isn't grounded in fit. Neither Vora nor Soriano had backgrounds in fashion when they started Hugh and Crye. Vora went to grad school at the London School of Economics and worked in consulting while Soriano worked at a non-profit. After about a year of research and development, though, the duo set up an online store. The first clients were friends and family, and then little pockets of buyers started popping up. There was even one in Wheeling, West Virgina, where it was clear one guy was telling all of his friends about the business. "We had little clues along the way to tell us we were on the right track," said Vora and Soriano. "When we were working out our sizing (3 different heights with 4 different fits which result in 12 sizes), a world-renowned pattern maker told us we were doing things with the fit that she had never seen in menswear, but that it could be revolutionary." When Hugh and Crye customers wanted to start trying shirts on, Vora and Soriano and† set up a storefront in Georgetown. The guys say they get their inspiration from pictures of grandfathers, uncles, fathers and other fresh looking gentlemen of old that knew they had to buy quality clothes and accessories that lasted for life. In short: Sure, there are trends, but this is men's fashion, stick to the classics. And of course, stay away from a few massive no-nos. "Hem your pants and denim, gentleman," Pranav said. "Triple breaks aren't a thing, and probably never were. Hate seeing guys wearing cuff links without a jacket... Stay fit. Being in shape is the best way to look fantastic, no matter what you're wearing." Soriano's fashion don't? ó he actually has a few: "The collar of a shirt is the most noticeable part of a wardrobe when you're talking to someone one-on-one. Two pet peeves: 1) When the collar flops down 70s style. 2) When the collar of the undershirt doesn't coincide with the way a guy is wearing his dress shirt. I often see guys wearing a crew neck undershirt when they have the top button of their dress shirt open. Or they wear a v-neck undershirt when they wear a dress shirt with a tie ó you can see the V-neck through the dress shirt. Both are very noticeable and look tacky." Don't be tacky. Check out the Hugh &amp; Crye fit chart below: Hugh & Crye † †
APHal RogersHouse Republicans' latest fiasco confirms the suspicion: The GOP loves the Paul Ryan budget in theory, but even Republicans can't get it to work in practice. That was the result of a seemingly nonchalant debate over a†bill to fund the Departments of Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, which blew up in House Republicans' faces on Wednesday.  The THUD bill was, well, a thud, and it was pulled from the House floor amid the realization that it did not have close to the 218 votes of GOP support it needed.†Republicans couldn't garner the votes while abiding by their standards ó billions in cuts on top of the levels of spending under sequestration.† House Majority Leader Eric Cantor said that the House will return to appropriating the bill after Congress' August recess. But a furious†House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers said that was "bleak at best," and other GOP sources said there's little chance of that, as well.† What happened here? This bill to fund the THUD served as Republicans' starting point in negotiations with Democrats. The GOP used the Ryan budget ó which it passed more than four months ago ó as a blueprint for the cuts they would need to make. But the problem with Ryan's budget is that it works in abstractions, and is never binding. And Republicans learned that, for the sake of saving face while going back to their districts, the heavy cuts projected in the Ryan budget just weren't workable.† In†a scathing statement, the normally measured Rogers blasted his colleagues.† "With this action, the House has declined to proceed on the implementation of the very budget it adopted just three months ago," Rogers said. "Thus, I believe that the House has made its choice: sequestration ñ and its unrealistic and ill-conceived discretionary cuts ñ must be brought to an end." That last sentence is what Democrats have been saying since sequestration took effect in March. Predictably, House Democrats seized on the news, with Budget Committee ranking member Chris Van Hollen using Rogers' statement as proof of validation for Democrats.† Talking Points Memo's Brian Beutler explains†how this latest failure could affect the coming battle over the fight to fund the government with a complete continuing-resolution bill: If House Republicans canít establish a position of their own, then the Senate will drive the whole process (its Transportation/HUD bill will probably pass on a bipartisan basis this week) and appropriations will be extended past September one way or another on the strength of Democratic votes.† It also suggests that the GOPís preference for permanent sequestration-level spending, particularly relative to increasing taxes, is not politically viable. If they want to lift the defense cuts, theyíre going to have to either return to budget negotiations with Democrats, or agree to rescind sequestration altogether. Republicans passed the unspecific outlines of the Ryan budget earlier this year, because they look good in abstraction. But when it comes to specifics, the knife cuts too deep. Meanwhile, the Senate will move Thursday to the next step in its version of the THUD bill.
Every year, college and MBA students flock to New York and other financial centers for highly-coveted summer analyst positions at investment banks. A Wall Street intern who works hard and is a great team player has the potential to turn their 10-week long summer stint into a full-time offer from their respective firm. † We spoke with Suzanne Gauron, a Goldman Sachs managing director, about internships in the bank's Investment Management Division.† She shared tips for summer interns and explained what she looks for when making a hire. Gauron, who studied humanities in college and began her career at Goldman as an intern, also told us what an intern can do to impress her and the biggest mistake they can make. †† † We've transcribed our Q&amp;A with Gauron below. (Note: It has been lightly edited for clarity).† JL: First off, can you give me a little bit about your background and how you got to where you are today?† SG: "I was a humanities major in college. I studied 18th century poetry. I had no experience in business. I was a summer analyst at Goldman before my senior year in college. That was my first real business experience and I was extremely, pleasantly surprised by that experience. I was invited to come back as a full-time analyst on the same team I worked with that summer in private wealth management. I covered high-net worth clients for two years, went back to business school at that point and then joined the group that I'm in now eight years ago. The group I'm in invests in private equity managers on behalf of Goldman Sachs' clients." JL: Can you describe the typical day for an intern in your division? What sort of responsibilities do they have? SG: "In our group, we're an investing group, and our interns work on the transactions that we're working on. They're staffed as though they are full-time employees with the same level of responsibility and involvement. So we're taking them through the transactions. They're working with senior members of the team leading the transactions. They would be doing the valuation work, the research work that we do around the types of investments that we're assessing and they're part of the team that forms a view on whether we are going to make the investment or not. "That's our group, but generally people are doing a combination of shadowing and education in their summer analyst program that starts to get them to build the types of investment views and perspectives that we're looking for in investment management." JL: How do you balance the desire to use an intern's talents and delegating responsibility, while still feeling comfortable? Basically, how do you decide how much responsibility to give an intern?† SG: "We give them as much responsibility as they're willing to take and that they can achieve on. In terms of day-to-day, we're trying to build a support system around the interns so they can be successful. So we're giving them big chunks of responsibility, but we're also giving them a lot of resources that they can use to make sure that they're on the right path on this. That means that they're staffed with another analyst who can help show them the steps that they could take to solve the problem or model out the valuation that they might be working on. They have a mentor who they can talk to about 'Hey, is this a dumb question? or not a dumb question that I'm thinking about and I'm asking about?' because they're integrated in the team they can go to other members of the team at any time. So if I just looked out of my office, they're sitting next to two other analysts who are full-time analysts who have more experience who are willing at any minute to sit with them and take them through a question large or small that may be a challenge to them."† JL: Do you mentor an intern?† SG: "I mentor a number of interns. We have a big buddy system and then a more senior mentor. The big buddy is the person who can talk to them about what time do you get in in the morning? What does casual Friday really mean? That sort of day-to-day practical things that can trip somebody up. Then the senior person is there to give broader counsel about career development and the types of feedback you receive during the summer to make sure that people are thinking more long-term about their career and where their place might be in the firm and group." JL: What sort of advice would you give to an intern in your group? Like, what would be the best piece of advice you could give them?† SG: "I think the best piece of advice that I give most often is †I think that people get really hung up on the practical skills that they have to have coming in. So what we see in Investment Management is a lot of people want to demonstrate 'Oh, I've run a portfolio. I've invested for myself.' And that's certainly a good thing to have, but the thing that's really priceless over the summer is having a good attitude because during the summer they face a lot of challenging situations and there are long hours and so feeling like the person next to you is excited to be there and wants to do the work every day is the thing you remember about somebody after they've gone back to school in September." JL: When you were an intern, did someone give you a piece of advice that stuck with you? SG: "I think my managing director did say to me when I was an analyst, I didn't know at the time it was true, he said look, 'You're 22, you think you're a grown up, but you still have a long way to go.' And when I look back on my career in my 20s, I actually evolved not just as a professional, but as a person a lot with the experiences I had in the first five years. I think people are sometimes too pre-mature in pigeonholing themselves based on who they think they are at 22."† JL: So what do you think is the biggest mistake an intern can make? SG: "Probably the biggest mistake is not writing things down and remembering them. So we always tell people that they should ask more questions. That's a very common feedback that we give interns and we're willing to entertain as many questions as they have, but they need to write that down and take that answer on board not just ask a question for the sake of asking a question and then ask it again a week later."† JL: That's good advice. JL: What's something that impressed you about an intern? SG: Probably going the extra step. So there are some interns that do the work and do it well and then there are some interns who say, 'Here's this good work product that I've done that's fully checked and accurate and when I think about how this fits into your business here's the next thing that I think I could do. Or why don't I build you this other model as well.' So offering up other things that they can do that are thoughtful and show that they understand the business is a really exciting thing to see from someone.† JL: If I were an intern, what's a good way to standout? SG:†"I think being a good team member is always the most important thing. You're probably the youngest person on the desk and sometimes people feel like they're not a full member of the team, but nobody else views it that way. Everyone views it from day one that you're just like everybody else and so that means building personal relationships with other people on the desk, getting to know people and meshing as part of the team so at the end of the summer people are surprised when you have to say that you're going back to school."† JL: In a job market that is so competitive, what are some of the details which make a difference in an interview or on a rÈsumÈ?† SG: "In a rÈsumÈ, showing expertise at something is really important. So I'm looking for depth as well as breadth of interests. So you have to have taken one thing and moved up in the organization or excelled at a sport or whatever it is that is most interesting to you. And then following on that, in the interview demonstrating passion about that thing. We're not looking for everyone to have a PhD in finance, but we're looking for them to have done anything that they like in the world and done a good job at it and feel deeply about it."† JL: What advice do you have for someone who wants to turn an internship into a full-time job? What should they do? How should they do that? SG: "I think it's a combination of coming in every day and doing the work and fitting in on the team so that people don't remember by the end of the summer that you weren't there full-time. I think people can be reasonably vocal about it. We can't read anyone's minds so saying, 'I really like this. I'd like to do this next year' never hurts. JL: How should someone prepare for an internship in this division? And then talk about the training they get on the job. SG:†"In preparing for the summer, I think following the markets is very valuable because we are investing. So I always ask people what stories they are following in the financial press and what companies they're most interested in. It's not a matter of knowing the price quote for the S&amp;P for the last fifteen days in a row, but having larger framework that they can fit knowledge into over the summer. "And then on the job, we have a pretty extensive training program at the Investment Management Division level. It starts off with a couple of days where all the interns are together getting an introduction to the firm and to investment management so they understand the different businesses across the division, not just the business that they'll be working in. Then they also throughout the summer have thought leadership gatherings were different business leaders come in and talk about the challenges and interesting opportunities that they're seeing in their businesses. And then professional development as well around things like feedback, thinking about your career, working on teams. So it's both the practical and the longer term."†† JL: Can you talk about the diversity of candidates that you all look for? SG:†"We're looking for very diverse set of students. It's not all finance majors as I said before. I think I'm a pretty good example of that. I hadn't taken any classes that required math in college. We're looking for people who are logical and organized and disciplined and have demonstrated the ability to come up a learning curve in something in the past whether it's learning to speak Chinese or learning to play an instrument or a sport or taking up something else that's a challenge. I think you see that in a cross-section of our summer class that they have a lot of different backgrounds."† We will be doing these Q&amp;A's with Goldman managing directors in different divisions over the next couple of weeks. Up next will be the Technology department.†
In this month's issue of Vanity Fair, Michael Lewis wrote a compelling piece on¬†Serge Aleynikov, the former Goldman Sachs computer programmer convicted of stealing the bank's secret algorithms. Now there's a Q&amp;A with Lewis about the article on VF's site. If you haven't read the story, Lewis comes down decidedly on the side of Aleynikov, making the case that Goldman used all its institutional power to target a man who had done nothing wrong.¬† In his Q&amp;A, the author remains as fiercely critical of the bank. To a question about the Goldman's "Stalinist" influence on the government, he replied: ...I think if you took lock, stock, and barrel, Goldman Sachs and moved it from New York to Moscow and forbade any employee from leaving so that they had to keep doing what they were doing but in a different context, I think they would flourish. The judicial system gets the same treatment ‚Äî Lewis says the Judge in Aleynikov was "intellectually dishonest. Or incompetent." High frequency trading, the whole reason why Aleynikov was employed at Goldman, gets the side of Lewis' tongue as well. To those who say it provides liquidity he says: There‚Äôs a line in The Big Short; one of the characters, who was cynical about the subprime-mortgage market, says, ‚ÄúWhen I hear Chinese Wall, I think you‚Äôre a f---ing liar.‚Äù I feel that way about liquidity. When I hear the word liquidity, I think you‚Äôre a f---ing liar. If this is liquidity, we don‚Äôt need it. The best moments of the Q&amp;A, though, are when Lewis meditates on culture, the American dream, and why the tragic hero of the story was able to give himself over to Wall Street and accept his fate.¬† Do yourself a favor and read the whole thing at Vanity Fair&gt;
REUTERS / Stephen LamWhere are we headed, Tim?A tech-industry insider sent us the note below highlighting what Apple's web site is describing as the company's "mission statement." The executive's reaction to this mission statement was not positive. He took it as a sign that Apple has changed fundamentally ó and for the worse ó since Steve Jobs died. I don't know what Apple's official mission statement was when Steve Jobs was alive - but I'd be shocked if it was this pathetic piece of generic corporate mumbo jumbo drivel. It's almost as if Tim Cook hated Jobs. The "mission statement" the executive was referring to is the paragraph below, which can be found on Apple's investor relations site and at the bottom of Apple press releases: Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices with iPad. If that really is Apple's "mission statement," it is indeed pretty lame. It's not a mission statement so much as a list of product lines. And it would be hard to imagine a less-inspiring, more prosaic description of what Apple is (or used to be) all about. The good news for Apple fans is that this description doesn't post-date Steve Jobs. It actually appeared on Apple press releases before Steve Jobs died. This release from 2010, for example, contains exactly the same description at the bottom. (Though it wasn't labeled a "Mission Statement.") Going back a bit further, to 2008, Apple included a more Jobs-ian description of itself at the bottom of its releases, one that did invoke more of the magic and inspirational rhetoric that Jobs was about: Apple ignited the personal computer revolution in the 1970s with the Apple II and reinvented the personal computer in the 1980s with the Macintosh. Today, Apple continues to lead the industry in innovation with its award-winning computers, OS X operating system and iLife and professional applications. Apple is also spearheading the digital media revolution with its iPod portable music and video players and iTunes online store, and has entered the mobile phone market with its revolutionary iPhone. I don't know whether Apple had a formal "Mission Statement" when Jobs was leading the company (anyone know?), but a couple of old news reports suggest that it did, at least back in the 1980s. And, as you might expect, this reported "Mission Statement" was miles from the prosaic product list above. According to the Economist, Steve Jobs' mission statement for Apple in 1980 was: ìTo make a contribution to the world by making tools for the mind that advance humankind.î About.com says another Jobs' quote served as Apple's mission statement in the '80s, though this also doesn't seem like much of a mission statement: "Man is the creator of change in this world. As such he should be above systems and structures, and not subordinate to them."† For what it's worth, I suspect that the "Mission Statement" listed on the IR site is not actually a mission statement. My guess is the paragraph was just added to the FAQ by someone who cut-and-pasted it off a press release, where it is presented as just a description of the company, not a mission statement. That someone who works at Apple apparently thinks this is the company's mission statement is disconcerting, but the news will be far worse if this is actually the current mission statement. It does seem, however, that Apple could use a clear mission statement these days, especially now that its direction and vision in the post-Jobs era is still unclear.  CEO Tim Cook's keynote speech at Apple's Worldwide Developers' Conference in June seemed to hint at a mission statement, when he spoke of Apple's commitment to making "the best" products rather than "the most." That speech, and Apple's recent ad campaigns, have also played up the emotions and passion that Apple wants its products to evoke. So there would seem to be the makings of a "Mission Statement" in there. Perhaps someday these sentiments will make it into the mission statement that appears on Apple's website.† Disclosure: I own Apple stock.
Like dealing with grief, there's an emotional process most college graduates go through with student loan debt: denial, anger, depression, bargaining, and, finally, acceptance. Millions get trapped somewhere between steps one and four, tripped up by a weak job market, predatory private lenders, or out-of-control payment schedules. Others skip all that mess and head straight for step five. They suck it up and move back in with mom and dad. They rent out their spare bedroom and get a side gig. They live on boats or camp out in their van. And in the case of Jason Kasher, they turn their bodies into billboards and run 1,000 miles across the country. Beginning this September, the Temple University graduate will spend 183 days running in dozens of different cities in order to pay down his five-figure loan debt. "It's a pretty unique challenge," Kasher, 23, told Business Insider. "I was at work one day and I sat there asking myself, is this something I want to do consistently for five or 10 years? I came to the realization that it's not." He had toyed around with the idea of launching his own business in college but had only managed to pay down $6,000 of his loans in the year after graduation, leaving nearly $30,000 standing in his way. It wasn't until June that he started exploring the idea of a thousand-mile fundraiser. "I was actually getting to ready to purchase a plane ticket to fly down to Florida to visit family down there ... and the price of the ticket went up like $100 in three days," he said. "I remember thinking, I'd be better off just walking the thousand miles down there than paying this price. And I just made a connection."¬† In early July, he quit his job as an operations manager for a central Pennsylvania-based logistics firm, moved back in with his parents, and started work on Paidtorun.com.¬†¬† Photo: Courtesy of Jason KasherKasher graduated from Temple University in 2012 with $35,000+ in student loans.Six miles a day for six months straight: Kasher isn't the first person to sell their body for advertising, but he said his motives are much different. "The one thing that differentiates me from [other sites] is that what they're doing is based off the money aspect," he said. "I'm trying to achieve a personal goal for myself, running 1,000 miles." Each day of his challenge, Kasher plans on running six miles. If a company wants to buy ad time, they simply ship him an outfit of their choosing with their logo ("T-shirt, uniform, whatever, I'm not picky.") and he will wear it for the day. Rates start out dirt cheap at $1/mile the first day, but increase by $1 each day thereafter. If he manages to secure funding for every day of his challenge, he'll wind up raising close to $100,000 ‚Äì enough to cover his $29,500 loan bill three times over. Of course, that's part of the plan. Kasher plans on using any additional funds raised to pump into a startup he is working on with a friend. "Since I was a sophomore in college, I always thought about getting into entrepreneurship, but until now I never actually went full-force and did it myself," he said. Coming up with a game plan: Running six miles a day is routine for most marathoners, but Kasher admits he hasn't consistently run in more than a year. He's spent the better part of three months conditioning his body to handle the demand he plans on putting on it. If he runs into any injuries along the way, he has a couple weeks' worth of cushion in his schedule for time off. As for where he'll run, he has a few destinations in mind (New York, Philadelphia, and Miami, for example), all home to friends who will let him crash for free. "I don't have any set course right now," he said. "I'm talking to friends about where I should run and I think I'll [end up] couch surfing my way down South." Giving back along the way: Kasher is setting aside two days on his trip to raise funds for charities, Oct. l and Dec. 25. He'll donate 50% of those days' proceeds to the National Breast Cancer Foundation and The Children‚Äôs Hospital of Philadelphia, respectively. "It started off as a quirky idea to see if I could pay off my loans or make a little money on the side," he said. "I'm pretty much never going to have a better opportunity to do this in my life so I'm taking a shot." You can follow Kasher on his journey here.
Twins Georgia and Patterson Inman, 15, have grown up horribly abused and neglected, but when they turn 21 they could inherit $60 million. In¬†"The Poorest Rich Kids In The World"¬†in this week's Rolling Stone¬†(not available online), Sabrina Rubin Erdely tells the story of the twins, who are the great-niece and nephew of celebrity tobacco heiress Doris Duke.¬†Their father, Walker Inman, inherited a portion of Doris' $1.3 billion fortune in 1993. In interviews with Erdely, the twins claim they were bolt-locked into feces-strewn bedrooms and abused both physically and mentally by their father from the time they were two years old to 2010 when Walker died of a heroin overdose. Their mother Daisha was forced out of the picture in 2000 after Walker allegedly kidnapped the 17-month-old twins and hired lawyers to prove Daisha was incompetent and mentally unstable. The twins were told by Walker that their absent mother was an alcoholic who gave them fetal alcohol syndrome and made them "retarded." More shocking details from Rolling Stone: Walker and his fifth-wife Daralee caused $30,000 in damage to their 10,000-square-foot Afton, Wyoming home dubbed "Outlaw Acres." It was a drug den filled with antiques, priceless artwork, and stacks of gold coins. Even though Georgia and Patterson grew up with a pet lion cub (that died after Walker fed it too many hamburgers) and brought loose diamonds to school for show and tell, nannies and tutors all say the children were malnourished. Walker Inman loved to blow things up. He would chuck dynamite into ponds and call it "fishing," and had a trailer filled with explosives, artillery, and ammunition. One of Patterson's happiest childhood memories is when his father accidentally set off a tear gas grenade while trying to teach him and Georgia a lesson. The entire family had to run out of the house, and Patterson was crying from laughing while retelling the story to Levitt. One of Georgia's first memories is of startling abuse: "They. Stuck my brother and I. In hot boiling water in our bath. It felt like our skin was melting away" Once, a skunk wandered into the living room, and Walker mowed it down with a machine gun. No matter how many times these incidents were witnessed by nannies and tutors and reported to authorities, no one intervened. The Department of Family Service came to the home a few times, but Walker had always been tipped off to hide his guns and drugs. By the time Walker died and their mother received custody, the twins reportedly tried to shoot Daisha during a stand off with police after being told for years by their father and step-mother that she was "the enemy." Doris's $1.3 billion fortune was left mainly to charity. The remaining $60 million going to the twins is still¬†being haggled over by¬†their stepmother Daralee, Walker's attorney, and their own mother Daisha.¬† You can read the full shocking and sickening story in the August 15th issue of Rolling Stone.
The state of Pennsylvania is killing a contract with IBM because, as of July, the project was $60 million over budget and a whopping 42 months behind schedule, state officials said. That's three and a half years late. Chris Kanaracus at IDG's News Service broke the news. In 2006, Pennsylvania signed a $106.9 million contract with IBM to be completed in 2009. It was, by any measure, a huge and complex project. It was to give the state a new computer system to track employee wages, employer taxes and handle unemployment claims, appeals, payments. Half of IT projects with budgets of over $15 million dollars run 45% over budget and are 7% behind schedule, according to research from McKinsey. So, sadly, it's not surprising that a project this big would have problems. By August 2012, with the project not yet complete, Department of Labor†Secretary Julia Hearthway commissioned Carnegie Mellon University's Software Engineering Institute to tell her if the state should finish or bail. On Wednesday, the report came back, recommending that the state pull the plug. The report blamed the state for poor project management. But it also slammed IBM pretty thoroughly. It said the computer system built so far was unreliable and full of bugs (had "a higher number of software defects than industry norms.") Plus, it blamed IBM's revolving-door workforce. The initial project manager and the top executive left in 2009 and IBM preceded to have 638 people work on the system, rotating most of them off in less than a year. "The size and churn of the workforce created an environment for inefficiencies," the report said.  A year ago, laid-off IBM employees told us that the company's ongoing layoffs are creating a lot of churn in large projects like these and hurting the company. They named a handful of cases where other big clients pulled the plug on IBM contracts. IBM is right now in the process of another big layoff that will cost it $1 billion and trim an expected 6,000 to 8,000 jobs. We asked IBM for comment on how employee churn affected this contract. IBM sent us this statement: "We are surprised by the Commonwealth's recent announcement. This decision is based on a third-party report that we had not seen at the time of the Commonwealth's announcement, despite repeated requests to the Department of Labor and Industry to review it together in the normal course of a working relationship that always has had the best interests of the citizens of Pennsylvania as its primary objective. "In complex information technology implementations, there is accountability on both sides for system performance and service delivery. IBM is fully prepared to continue to bring the benefits of a contemporary unemployment benefits system to the State and its citizens, and we stand ready to work with the State to resolve this matter."
AP PhotoSteam rises from Cogentrix power plant in Sioux Falls, Idaho. Goldman Sachs bought Cogentrix in 2003.Wall Street's biggest banks are currently under the gun for their massive role in global commodities markets. But what many don't realize is the vast expansion of that role was, in large part, an unintended consequence of the chaos of the financial crisis. Should we be shocked that the ramifications of the financial crises are still reverberating years later with unexpected repercussions? Not in the slightest. Without the financial crisis, Wall Street's legally designated, FDIC insured, bank holding companies (FHCs) would not have had the opportunity to build massive portfolios of oil, natural gas, metals and more. They would not have been able to buy the things that transport and house those commodities either. Right now, bankers might be daydreaming of an alternate reality where they didn't build the huge, now tenuous, commodities portfolios which are drawing increased scrutiny. Such scrutiny as the July 20th The New York Times story that accused Goldman Sachs of using its aluminum warehouses to manipulate the price of the commodity ‚Äî an assertion the bank emphatically denies ‚Äî costing consumers billions. Then there's JP Morgan, which just agreed to pay a $410 million fine for using trading strategies to manipulate energy markets ‚Äî the bank neither confirms nor denies the manipulation charges. It won't stop there. In September, The Fed will rule on whether or not to allow Wall Street banks ‚Äî specifically JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, and Morgan Stanley ‚Äî to keep the physical commodities they purchased during a five-year, post-financial-crisis shopping spree. This could be The Fed's chance to correct mistakes it made while it was asleep at the wheel, allowing the commodities businesses at Wall Street banks to get bigger and more interconnected than anyone in American history ever intended. Andrew Jackson originally crushed the national bank because he didn't want it to centralize commercial and financial power.¬†You can almost hear him turning in his grave. In 1956 the U.S. enacted the Bank Holding Companies Act (BHCA) effectively barring any company that owned a commercial bank (a bank holding company) from engaging in activities outside the business of banking. The idea was that commerce and banking should be separate, and, more importantly that banks should never become something that Americans really hate ‚Äî monopolies. Certain institutions were designated ‚Äúfinancial holdings companies‚Äù (FHCs) so that they could do complex things like underwrite insurance/bonds or deal in securities. Still, FHCs remained subject to the regulations of the BHCA, and were not supposed to be in the business of warehousing or transportation, which are only a few of the logistical non-finance businesses that Wall Street banks are involved in now. In 1999 the BHCA was softened by a provision in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the one that repealed Glass-Steagall. Through the 1990s, banks argued they needed telephone help lines and data processing units to conduct their activities. They said they should be able to own those businesses too. With Gramm-Leach-Bliley FHCs were allowed to petition the Fed for special permission to buy ‚Äúcomplementary‚Äù non-financial businesses. The meaning of ‚Äúcomplementary‚Äù was kept quite vague. According to Gramm-Leach-Bliley, FHCs were ... ‚Äúto engage, to a limited extent, in activities that appear to be commercial if a meaningful connection exists between the proposed commercial activity and the FHC‚Äôs financial activities.‚Äù And if they posed no risk to the greater financial system, of course. Between 2000 and 2012 banks used this rule almost exclusively to take advantage of the commodities boom and buy physical assets. Citigroup was the first to use it in 2003, requesting permission to sell oil, gas, and other commodities on the spot market. Two years later, JP Morgan got in the mix and JP Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation ‚Äî the business that was just fined by federal regulators ‚Äî was born in 2005. It, too, was subject to the Fed's stipulations about the size of its business ‚Äî it could only equal 5% of the bank's core capital, for one. The Fed specified that JP Morgan could trade only in the commodities it petitioned for. It also said that to minimize the bank's exposure risk, it didn't want JP Morgan owning any of the transportation companies or storage facilties involved in commodities. These facilities were to be owned and operated by third parties not insured by the FDIC. If something went wrong, the Fed wanted to make sure taxpayers wouldn't be on the hook. Reading the Fed's language, it isn't hard to understand why critics feel today's Wall Street commodities business of oil refineries, wind farms, and warehouses has strayed away from what Gramm-Leach-Bliley intended. The question now, is whether or not Wall Street banks should be allowed to continue in the commodities business. And of course, who's to blame for their straying in the first place? While JP Morgan was asking the Fed for special permission, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley didn't have to. Until the financial crisis they were investment banks without commercial operations and thus not subject to the regulations of the BHCA. During the commodities boom of the early 2000s they purchased businesses that would do what these banks do best ‚Äî make money. As a result, Morgan Stanley became a huge player in the oil and energy business. By 2005 it was the 2nd most active seller of power in the United States. In 2006 it bought oil tanker company Heidmar Inc. for an estimated $200 million. That same year it acquired Colorado oil company TransMontaigne for $11.35 a share. By 2012 Reuters estimated that Morgan Stanley's bank commodities businesses had netted it $17 billion over 10 years. Goldman Sachs wasn't going to get left behind. The bank has a long history in the commodities derivatives business. In 1981 it bought commodities trading company J. Aron and Company, which is where CEO Lloyd Blankfein and COO Gary Cohn both got their starts. The bank moved into physical assets with the commodities boom purchasing Cogentrix Energy (which owned coal-fired and solar power plants as well as an oil pipeline) in 2003. This semblance of order ‚Äî freedom to enter physical commodities markets for banks without commercial arms, and the requirement of special permission for banks with commercial arms ‚Äî was turned on its head with the financial crisis. In the chaos of shoring up the global banking system, Goldman and Morgan Stanley became FHCs subject to BHCA regulation overnight. In the heat of the moment Hank Paulson and Ben Bernanke were surely not combing through the banks' books looking for BHCA conflicts. Also, according to BHCA regulation, these banks had five years to divest themselves of any conflicting businesses. It was a matter that could be dealt with at another time. ‚ÄúAnother time‚Äù being now. JP Morgan, though already an FHC, also found itself in a special position at the start of the financial crisis ‚Äî the bank was first in line at a Bear Stearns fire sale. When JP Morgan acquired Bear Stearns, it also acquired Bear Stearns' energy commodities business, Arroyo Energy Investors. When Europe's banking system was on its knees begging for mercy, regulators ordered The Royal Bank of Scotland to sell its commodities business, RBS Sempra. JP Morgan snapped it up. JP Morgan then purchased the ‚Äúglobal oil, global metals, including Henry Bath, global coal and European power, gas, and non-U.S. emissions assets‚Äù ‚Äî $1.7 billion of assets ‚Äî for $1.6 billion in 2010. With those deals, JP Morgan officially welcomed itself to the Big Leagues. From the purchase announcement release: ‚ÄúWe are fortunate to welcome the talented employees of RBS Sempra Commodities to J.P. Morgan today,‚Äù said Blythe Masters, head of Global Commodities. ‚ÄúWith their deep market knowledge and expertise, they complement the team at J.P. Morgan and will provide a powerful competitive advantage as we extend our Commodities business globally.‚Äù JP Morgan also bought now-defunct commodities brokerage MF Global's stake in the London Metals Exchange (LME) in 2011, becoming its largest shareholder with a 10.9% stake. It also considered getting more aggressive in the warehousing space in 2012. Through all of this, Blythe Masters, already known on Wall Street, became legendary for running the bank's commodities unit. This May, however, regulators told JP Morgan that they were investigating the bank's activity in energy markets, and in a 70-page document pointed to Masters as an executive who had made ‚Äúscores of false and misleading statements and material omissions‚Äù about the business, according to The NYT. While JP Morgan had an unprecedented growth spurt, Goldman continued to make acquisitions in the physical commodities space despite its new FHC status. Morgan Stanley, also a newly minted FHC, merely let the money roll in. Goldman acquired its controversial Metro warehouses, one of the largest in the LME network, in 2010. In 2012, it led a group that bought a coal business Brazil's Vale for $407 million. Morgan Stanley, sitting pretty, retained TransMontaigne Partners, which earned over $152 million in 2011. With the five-year grace period for BHCA divestment coming to an end, banks know that the Fed is weighing its policy options. ‚ÄúThe Fed is in a difficult position as well,‚Äù said UNC Law Professor and banking expert Saule Omarova. ‚ÄúNo one wants to admit that they dropped the ball.‚Äù Omarova maintains that it's truly impossible for anyone outside the inner circles of banks and the Fed to know what banks are actually holding. She says the truth lies in the living wills banks were forced to write after the financial crisis. They detail all of the assets banks have on their vast balance sheets, but those wills are kept as secrets inside the Federal Reserve. According to Omarova, banks even quibbled about the number of lawyers who could be present as the wills were being written. Too many loose lips sink ships ‚Äî and banks. For its part, JP Morgan has said it may exit the physical commodities business entirely. Goldman, on the other hand, seems ready to fight on. After The New York Times published the damning story about Goldman's aluminum warehouses, the bank released a fact sheet defending the business. This week, Goldman Sachs COO Gary Cohn went on CNBC to discuss the matter live. This may be because BHCA regulation has a grandfather clause. As Omarova points out in her research paper, ‚ÄúThe Merchants of Wall Street, Banking Commerce and Commodities,‚Äù banks that have been designated FHCs after November 1999 can continue ‚Äúactivities related to the trading, sale, or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,‚Äù as long as they meet certain conditions. The Bank for International Settlements (BIS) put out a working paper detailing the risks associated with holding commodities. Instead of being a hedge, researchers Marco Jacopo Lombardi and Francesco Ravazzolo determined that commodities actually add volatility to portfolios as the correlation between commodity and equity returns has increased since the financial crisis. Politicians fear that with Wall Street banks owning commodities, the cost of a BP oil spill-sized accident could fall on the backs of taxpayers. They fear a whole new set of risks we haven't seen yet. After all, this whole story could be considered one of unintended consequences. If what Washington wants to do is make banking boring, simple, and less risky, Wall Street may have to prepare to let go of the goods that it acquired in chaos. Historically, letting go hasn't necessarily been the Street's strong suit.
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezSince 1979, China has maintained a population control program known as the "one-child policy," in most cases limiting families living in urban areas to only one child. The country just completed a once-in-a-decade leadership transition earlier this year, though, and the new management is eager to show its reform-minded stripes amid a slowdown in the Chinese economy. As a result, the "one-child policy" may be set to become a "two-child policy" fairly soon. "According to the 21st Business Herald which cited sources close to the National Population and Family Planning Commission, China may significantly relax its one-child policy at end-2013 or early-2014 by allowing families to have two children if at least one parent is from a one-child family," writes BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ting Lu in a note to clients. "A plan for allowing all families to have two children after 2015 is also being reviewed. We believe the news to be reliable and is in line with our view." Deutsche Bank economist Jun Ma says a transition to a "two-child policy" would be something of a long-term stimulus package. "As tens of millions of sibling-less people in China are now entering their child-bearing age, we expect this policy shift would induce the fourth baby boom of the country," writes Jun in a note. "This projected baby boom, although in smaller scale than the previous three, would reverse the declining trend of newborn babies since 1990s and would eventually help mitigate the negative impact of aging population on economic growth and financial sustainability of the pension system." BofA's Ting calculates around 10 million new babies as a result of the proposed policy shift: If the 21st Business Herald news is confirmed, the demographic reform path (which we called ìpiecemeal pathî in our earlier report) is more conservative than our baseline ìmiddle pathî, which is defined as allowing all families to have two children without any restrictions. So is this a big disappointment? Not really. This is because the one child policy now is only strictly enforced in urban areas and some developed rural areas where most couples of child-bearing age have at least one singleton (note Chinaís one-child policy started in the late 1970s).  According to the 2005 population survey, singletons account for 29.3% of Chinese aged 30 or under (the generation affected by the one-child policy). The ratio should be significantly higher in urban areas. Assuming 60% of people of child bearing age in urban areas are singletons, on top of the 36% families which are already allowed to have two children, we estimate 48% of urban families of child bearing age could benefit from the coming reform. Using census data, there are 79mn women of child bearing age (23 to 42) this year. 48% of 79mn is 38mn. Assuming 25% of them choose to have a second child, about 9.5mn babies would be born as a result of this reform to one-child policy. "We believe that the reform-minded president Xi and premier Li will use the opportunity of abolishing the one-child policy to build up their authority, show their determination in making changes and convince the Chinese people that they do have a roadmap for reforms," says Ting.
REUTERS/Phil NobleLiverpool's owner John W. Henry wears ear plugs before their English Premier League soccer match against Chelsea at Anfield in Liverpool, northern England, November 7, 2010.John Henry, the American billionaire owner of Liverpool Football Club, has agreed to buy one of the most prestigious newspapers in the US, The Boston Globe, from The New York Times Company for $70m (¬£46m). The sale price represents a substantial discount to the $1.1bn paid for The Globe by The New York Times Company in 1993, which broke records as the highest price ever paid for an American newspaper. The Boston paper and several other media assets which form part of the same New England Media Group, were put up for sale in February after several years of declining circulation and advertising revenue. The Globe‚Äôs circulation has almost halved in the last decade, from 438,621 in 2002 to 230,351 in September 2012, and The New York Times Company has been forced to book several write-downs on the New England Media Group. Revenues at the New England Media Group fell 7.1pc in the first six months of this year. The sale to Mr Henry, who also owns the Boston Red Sox baseball team, will allow The New York Times Company to concentrate on its flagship title, the group said. ‚ÄúWe are very proud of the association we have had with The Boston...and we‚Äôre delighted to have found a buyer in John Henry, who has strong local roots and a deep appreciation of the importance of these publications to the Greater Boston community,‚Äù said Mark Thompson, the former BBC director-general who became president and chief executive of The New York Times Company last year. ‚ÄúAs a result of this agreement, we will be able to sharpen our company focus on and investments in The New York Times brand and its journalism.‚Äù The New York Times Company has received approaches for The Globe before. In 2009 it turned down an offer of $35m after warning the Boston newspaper was heading towards losses of $85m. Mr Henry is worth around $1.5bn according to Forbes. His foray into print media follows similar moves by US billionaire investor Warren Buffett, who has bought more than 60 newspapers over the past few years, including his local paper the Omaha World Herald.
We are fifty people gathered here in the annual assemblage of opinion, incantation, invective, and argumentative dialogue. Put 50 economists and financial gurus in one place and you will certainly have 51 opinions. This year is no exception. Much discussion and recurring debate is focused on the composition of the Fed (Federal Reserve) board after 2014. Take a look at the current members of the board. They can be viewed at¬†http://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/default.htm. Picture what this board may look like in one year. It is hard to believe that Ben Bernanke will remain a board member after being Chairman. We assume that the new Chairman will be in her or his seat by then. That may be Janet Yellen, Lawrence Summers, or someone from the second tier of considered names, such as Roger Ferguson, Tim Geithner, Christina Romer, or others. The press attention and debate here seems to focus on Yellen and Summers. There are lots of views about the choice and the political machinations that would go into making it. Yellen is seen as a less political and more predictable person. Many here have met her both in official capacities and when she was a private citizen. She has a reputation for being gracious and tolerant, and she is well respected when it comes to her skills. Summers is more controversial. Many here have met him in official capacities, in his university capacities at Harvard, and also in private sessions. For me personally, I have had the privilege to meet them both in their official capacities, and both are impressive. Summers in earlier times has been much less gracious and much more arrogant than Janet Yellen. I can find no one who has a personality issue with Janet Yellen. There are a lot of people who have personality issues with Lawrence Summers. Both have credentials in government and skills in economics. Summers is viewed as more political in his processes and methodologies. There is a clear and established personal political relationship with and loyalty to President Barack Obama. Janet Yellen does not have that insider political mechanism with President Obama. Her position on the Fed board and at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco put her in a position where she needed to be less political and more independent in terms of view. The debate here is centered on whether Summers has political baggage. He certainly does. Does his loyalty to Obama trump his political baggage? It may. Did his questionable comments, as President of Harvard, regarding female aptitude in math and science hurt him? They might have. Is the option of a appointing a woman of Janet Yellen's caliber as Fed Chair a factor that might weigh heavily in this selection by President Obama? It might. Another speculative issue here is what happens if Summers becomes chair, is confirmed by the US Senate, and takes office as Fed Chairman in 2014. Does Yellen then leave the board? If she does, what does her absence do to alter the composition of the Fed board? Remember, she is currently the Vice Chair, serving an extended term. Will she stay if Summers is appointed Chair? All these are questions without answers. Looking at the rest of the board, one can see the possibility of substantial change in the Fed board within one year, say, if Ben Bernanke is replaced by Lawrence Summers, Janet Yellen leaves because she was not selected, and Sarah Bloom Raskin moves to the Treasury. Elizabeth Duke has already indicated she is leaving, and Jerome Powell‚Äôs term ends in 2014. The Fed board‚Äôs current composition of seven experienced members could be reduced to Jeremy Stein, Daniel Tarullo, and five new people. Market reactions were discussed here in depth. Of course, differing opinions abounded. It seems as if a Janet Yellen appointment as Chair is the most predictable, trusted option and therefore entails the least risk premia expansion over Fed board composition. Yellen is a known quantity and her views are clear; she is articulate, with years of experience both in public office and in private capacities. She is familiar with the regulatory issues that confront the Fed. Yellen is widely respected for her views. She is also viewed as one who is flexible. That means a resurgence of inflation when she is Fed Chair could bring about a policy change. While she may currently be characterized as a ‚Äúdove‚Äù and has been a robust supporter of Bernanke‚Äôs policies, she is also a skilled and seasoned-enough central banker to know that a change in course will be necessary if inflation expectations demonstrably rise to the point where action is warranted. Summers is less predictable. Therefore, the risk premia attached to his nomination are likely higher. How do we measure such things? Therein lies the great difficulty of trying to forecast. We gather here as 50 people with 51 opinions discuss how to measure risk premia over the choices in composition of the Fed board. A lot of discussion has also focused on the structure of the Fed. Remember, the FOMC (Federal Open Market Commission) consists of 19 people. All 19 articulate their views at every meeting, but only 12 vote at one time, and thus only 12 votes determine the FOMC's policy decisions 8 times per year. Seven of the 12 voters are governors. We have discussed the possibilities of a massive change in the composition of that 7-member board. The President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is also a voting member of the FOMC at all times. That is currently Bill Dudley, whose policy positions are consistent with Bernanke's and Yellen's. He is predictable in his views, how he articulates them, and where he stands on monetary policy. There is no reason to think Dudley would not continue his position at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. There is no expectation that he will be leaving in the near future. The other 11 regional bank presidents vote in a rotating system. At any given time, 4 of them are added to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, along with the 7 governors, to make up 12. Some of those 11 have dissented from Bernanke's position and disagreed with the policy as being too soft or dovish. Others have dissented because they thought a policy decision did not reflect sufficient worry about deflation or disinflation. Hence they thought policy might actually be too tight. There is discussion within the Fed. The presidents are articulate about their views, and they operate fairly transparently, or attempt to. Most of them are well-meaning, well-trained central bankers whose skills have been honed during the last five years in a remarkable financial crisis. How many of those presidents will rotate in the next couple of years? We do not know. We can speculate by looking at their ages and their terms as presidents of their respective regional banks. There is no clear way to forecast which president would leave and when. The replacement mechanism in a regional bank is complex as well. This means it is possible that the reserve of regional bank presidents, including Dudley, will be the historical memory at the FOMC within one year. It is quite possible that we might confront 4 or 5 new governors making decisions that are based upon their experience and knowledge, but not with the experience of surviving the financial crisis or implementing a new monetary policy. It would be an interesting switch to see the reserve bank presidents, seasoned as they have been by the fires of the financial crisis, acting as the historical memory of the FOMC, while the governors are mostly ‚Äúnewbies‚Äù when it comes to actual policy decision making under the fire of an emergency. The final takeaway from the discussions at Leen‚Äôs Lodge is an analysis of market response. We are discussing and debating intensely how the market will react to possible combinations of new market governors and what those combinations might be. As I said, assemble 50 people, and you will get 51 opinions, robustly argued. Season spirited discussions with fresh fish, a glass of wine, and the pristine and invigorating August air in Maine, and our retreat becomes a remarkable gathering.
In a rare breach of central bank etiquette, a paper by the Richmond Fed said the ECB is hamstrung by institutional problems and acts on the mistaken premise that excess debt is the cause of the eurozone crisis when the real cause is the collapse of growth, which has, in turn, spawned a debt crisis that could have been avoided. ‚ÄúThe ECB lacks a coherent strategy for creating the monetary base required to sustain the money creation necessary for a growing economy,‚Äù said the paper, written in July by Robert Hetzel, the bank‚Äôs senior economist. It called for direct action to buy ‚Äúbundles‚Äù of small business loans, as well as ‚Äúpackages of government debt‚Äù across EMU states, including German Bunds. ‚ÄúThe ECB will have to be clear that surplus countries will experience inflation above 2pc for extended periods of time,‚Äù and must be prepared to ‚Äúexplain to the German public‚Äù that this is desirable. ‚ÄúMost important, the ECB needs to start by recognising that Europe‚Äôs problems are more than structural. It needs to stop using monetary policy as a lever for achieving structural changes and to end its contractionary policy.‚Äù While the paper reflects the views of the author, there is no doubt that many Fed officials feel the same way. The ECB brushed aside the advice on Thursday, leaving the main policy rate at 0.5pc. The decision to sit tight comes despite shrinking liquidity in the eurozone and a credit shock imported from the US, and amounts to ‚Äúpassive‚Äù tightening. Mario Draghi, the ECB president, said there were signs of returning confidence after six quarters of recession, pointing to ‚Äúgradual recovery in economic activity in the remaining part of the year and in 2014‚Äù. The ECB has so far resisted calls from the International Monetary Fund and the OECD for more stimulus to ensure that recovery reaches ‚Äúescape velocity‚Äù. Long-term borrowing costs have jumped by more than 60 basis points across the eurozone since the Fed shifted gears in May and began to signal an early end to QE, aggravating the credit crunch across southern Europe. The IMF warned last week that the tapering of bond purchases by the Fed risks reigniting the EMU debt crisis. ‚ÄúRecovery remains elusive,‚Äù it said. The ECB has so far tried to counter the Fed shock by adopting a new policy of ‚Äúforward guidance‚Äù and promising to keep rates low for a long time, but words alone have had little effect. Mr Draghi said the rise in yields is ‚Äúunwarranted‚Äù and will be watched closely, a hint of future rate cuts if trouble persists, but it is unclear whether the German-led bloc of hawks in the ECB‚Äôs Governing Council is willing to go that far. He may have undercut the dovish message by playing down any danger of deflation, describing the negative inflation rates in Spain, Greece and Cyprus (stripping out tax rises) as ‚Äúone-off effects‚Äù or welcome adjustments in prices. ‚ÄúWe don‚Äôt see self-fulfilling expectations of broad-based price decreases in any euro area country,‚Äù he said. Jacques Cailloux from Nomura said the biggest worry is repayment of ‚Ç¨1 trillion in bank loans under the ECB‚Äôs long-term lending programme. The banks have handed back roughly 60pc of the money, effectively draining liquidity from the financial system. While this is a healthy sign in one sense, it has automatically forced up borrowing costs such as EONIA rates. ‚ÄúThe ECB should be cutting rates to zero to offset this. We have had some improvement in confidence, and localised credit easing in some countries has helped, but it is a very open question whether this is a sustainable recovery,‚Äù he said. The eurozone‚Äôs broad M3 money has been flat since October, far short of the ECB‚Äôs 4.5pc growth target. Business credit contracted at an accelerating rate of 1.6pc in June. Retail sales fell in both Germany and France in June, while the latest WDMA reading for Germany machinery orders showed a 7.6pc fall in foreign orders. Optimists have homed in on the spate of good news from PMI confidence surveys, including the latest rise in the eurozone manufacturing PMI to a two-year high of 50.3. Even Italy has jumped above the ‚Äúboom-bust‚Äù line of 50 as Rome pays off ‚Ç¨40bn in arrears to contractors, a back-door form of stimulus. Neil Mellor from BNY Mellon said the jump in PMI indices can be misleading after a long slump. ‚ÄúYou have to take these with a pinch of salt. Europe is bumping along the bottom and there is nothing in sight to kick-start growth momentum. At the end of the day, yields in Italy are 4.4pc and nominal GDP is contracting, and that means debt dynamics are still unsustainable,‚Äù he said.
