Google EarthBahrain's poor and overcrowded Shiite majority learned what a raw deal they were getting in 2006, when they saw satellite images of lavish palaces and empty land owned by the Sunni monarchy. The images, which circulated¬†in PDF form after the government blocked Google Earth, spurred growing unrest about the lack of affordable housing.¬†In 2011 this unrest broke out into large nonviolent protests as part of the Arab Spring. Following a¬†brutal¬†and largely ignored¬†crackdown on protests, however,¬†the housing crisis has only¬†gotten worse. Around 54,000 requests¬†for government housing were still pending action as of March 2013, up from 46,000 in March 2011.¬†That's a lot of angry people waiting to rise up again against the U.S.-friendly regime. As for those satellite images, new surveillance confirms that things are as bad as ever. We have included new satellite images along with slides from the anonymous PDF that set off protests in the first place.
In case you ever wondered just how much wealthy students dominate America's top colleges, here's a nice illustration from a†new report†by the Century Foundation. At the most selective schools in the country,* 70 percent of students come from the wealthiest quarter of U.S. families. Just 14 percent come from the poorest half. And while these statistics date back to 2006, I think it's safe to say they haven't changed greatly in the last few years. www.theatlantic.com If you think higher education should be a ladder for upward mobility, then you should regard these numbers as a disgrace.†As we've†written before†at†The Atlantic, elite colleges do a consistently poor job recruiting the intelligent but low-income high school students who could benefit most from a top-notch education. Part of their problem, as Josh Freedman†explained for us recently, is that it's expensive. Low-income undergrads need financial aid, and many institutions either don't have the resources, or would simply prefer to deploy them elsewhere. Others have the money and are willing to use it, but aren't sufficiently aggressive about reaching out to a population of students who often don't realize they have the academic skills to attend a great school or that aid would cover most of their expenses. But it's certainly not as if there aren't enough smart, poor students to fill up classrooms.†As economists Caroline Hoxby and Christopher Avery†have shown, about 39 percent of America's high-achieving students are from the country's poorest 50 percent of students. These are teenagers who manage an A- average in school and finish among the 10 percent of SAT or ACT takers. Most of them never even apply to a selective college, which would include schools ranging from the "very competitive" category to the "most competitive" category.† If the wealthiest schools in the country wanted more economic diversity, they could have it. www.theatlantic.com *There are roughly 80 schools in the "most competitive" category, which is based on†Barron's†rankings. Here's a†list of the institutions†via the†New York Times. More from The Atlantic: American vacation policies are awful Americans are more miserable than Canadians Black unemployment is shamefully high
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from†Business Insider†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Mohamed El-Erian's Six Rules For Running Your Portfolio (The Reformed Broker) PIMCO'S CEO Mohamed El-Erian spoke at the PIMCO 2013 NYC Investment Summit New York. El-Erian gave his rules on how investors should run their portfolio. Josh Brown sums it up. 1. "Protect yourself against the haircuts that come from not-strong balance sheets, weak income statements and bad management." 2. "Don't give up all of your liquidity just to be 'in.'" 3. Manage your risks. Just diversifying is not good enough. 4. " Be reasonable about your return expectations." 5. "Beware backward-looking labels." There was a time when peripheral European countries were considered to have interest rate risk, not credit risk because they were developed countries, while emerging countries like Brazil and China were seen to have credit risk. This no longer holds true. 6. "Be Resilient and Agile. The world is changing." Why Brian Belski Is Sticking With S&amp;P 500 1,575 (BMO Capital Markets) The recent stock market rally has seen analysts hiking up their S&amp;P 500 targets. Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets however is sticking with 1,575. Here's why: "Over the past 12 months, we have gone from defending our bullish stance with price targets at one point well above both market levels and consensus expectations to reconciling near-term caution. To be frank, we believe forecasts should be defined by analysis and process. And yes, we enjoy rising stock prices. However, we believe too many investors are currently expecting higher stock prices tomorrow just because they were higher today. As such, our model is telling us that stocks are well ahead of both fundamentals and macros. Therefore, the inputs of our model need to markedly improve for us to change our conclusions." Gold Has Never Stayed Below The 'Stairway To Hell' For Very Long (Citi) Despite the blow to gold prices this year, Citi's Tom Fitzpatrick writes that on a "medium-to-long-term basis" he is very bullish on the precious metal. And this he says is because of fundamentals.† "As can be seen from the chart [below], Gold has never stayed below that ìstairway to hellî for very long," he wrote referring to the statutory debt limit.† "Given that the debt limit number is going to continue higher, a re-emergence of Gold strength looks inevitable.† A lot of ìconsidered opinionî suggests that by the end of the present electoral term (end of 2016 when new presidential elections take place), that the US debt limit will be at around $22 trillion USD." Citi via King World News How To Help Clients Ride Out Market Volatility (The Wall Street Journal) During times of tremendous market volatility many investors panic and sell low. Dan Crimmins of Crimmins Wealth Management told the Wall Street Journal that he had a two-part plan to help clients learn to understand and accept risk. First, he went over their investment policy statements to help the clients "understand how their investments will help them meet their goals," according to the WSJ. Second, he took them through a "fire drill". To do this he showed them how long typical bear markets run, how much the market falls. "I wanted to make them understand that this is very normal," he told the WSJ. AIG Owned Advisor Group Announces Lay-Offs (Investment News) Broker-dealer Advisor Group announced lay offs this week that affected under 5% of its workforce. Advisor Group is operated by AIG and has four broker-dealers, namely, Arizona-based SagePoint Financial, New York-based Royal Alliance, Georgia-based FSC Securities Corporation, and Minnesota-based Woodbury Financial Services. Most of the layoffs are reported to have come from Woodbury Financial Services.
flickr/jordanfischerLast night, P&amp;G unexpectedly announced that current CEO Bob McDonald was retiring, and that his predecessor, A.G. Lafley, would replace him. P&amp;G shares rose 4% today on the news.† Though†the company's CFO said†the decision was just about Robert McDonald deciding to retire (at 59) and that there won't be any dramatic strategic shifts, there's a reason activist investor Bill Ackman pushed for a change.† Lafley, an in-house legend who increased company value by $100 billion during his past tenure, has his work cut out for him. We spoke to Lafley a few months ago after the release of his book, "Playing To Win," about why some executives and companies fail at strategy.† He argues that business fail when they don't make difficult choices about where and how they can win particular markets and put the full weight of the business behind them.  P&amp;G's current restructuring and cost cutting program is not going quick enough for investors. During his time at P&amp;G, Lafley†cut more jobs than any previous CEO, sold off the company's hugely valuable food brands, and carried out a $57 billion acquisition of Gillette. With Lafley, strategy isn't about small choices.† Here are some of his key insights: On when things go wrong "When we made mistakes, when we had our failures, when we weren't delivering results that we were capable, almost there was almost always one of two problems. Either we had lost our connection with our consumer and what they wanted, needed, and valued, or our strategy needed to be changed because something had changed in the marketplace and we hadn't responded."† Companies go halfway and don't fully develop a strategy "This is probably most common at Fortune 500 companies. They do part of the strategy job, but they don't do the whole thing. What do I mean by that? They have a vision or a mission, they might go out and do industry, company and competitor analysis, they might even put together an annual plan and budget. Those are parts of strategy, or they're the output of strategy but they're not strategy." So what's the solution? According to Lafley, it's about making difficult and specific choices, and putting the entire weight of a business behind them. "Strategy is five choices," Lafley said. "What is winning; where am I going to play to win; how am I going to win where I play; where are my core competencies that are going to enable me to win where I play; and what management systems and measures are going to help me execute my strategies?" Making tough decisions is essential "A lot of human beings, don't like to make choices. Choices are difficult, we want to keep our options open, choices involve taking risks, and not only risk to the business but personal risk. So I think there's this sort of human resistance to making choices, and choices are the core of strategy." People don't like thinking strategy, and focus on execution "The second thing that goes on is I think that some people, maybe too many people ust don't like thinking strategy. They think that they know what their product and service is, they think that it's all about execution. 'If I execute better than the next guy, I'm going to win.' But the problem is that execution without the direction of a strategy is all over the place. You might win occasionally but you're probably not going to win consistently, reliably or sustainably." When you need to, cut even successful brands "One of the toughest choices we had to make was to abandon and eventually divest all of our food and beverage businesses, Lafley said. "We divested 7 or 8 billion dollars worth of leading food and beverage brands, the Folgers coffee brand, number one in America and Canada, the Pringles chips brand number 2 to Frito-Lay, the Jif peanut butter brand, the Crisco brand, number one." They did it because though they were profitable businesses, they weren't ones Lafley saw as winners in the long term, or where the business could continue to grow and win. † "We chose for good strategic reasons to abandon and get out of those businesses so we could invest our resources," Lafley said, "primarily our people but also our cash, in businesses like home care, personal care, beauty care and health care, all of which looked strategically more attractive."† All of the above questions played a role in the decision to divest; these were areas in which P&amp;G could win, Lafley said. "They were demographically more attractive, they were structurally more attractive, lower capital, higher margin, and frankly they were better fit with our core competencies, deep understanding of consumers, the creation of known brands, and innovation."
First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,303, +8.6 pts, +0.0%S&amp;P 500: 1,649, -0.9 pts, -0.0%NASDAQ: 3,459, -0.2 pts, -0.0% And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
ShutterstockJust before my 16th birthday, my mom wrote a check from my account to buy me a BMW 328i, and that is where I learned to drive a stick shift. That car had a lot of power under the hood, and I used and abused it. I almost crashed twice, once racing someone on the highway. I didn‚Äôt realize how quickly I was coming up behind another car‚Äîit looked like it was standing still‚Äîuntil my friend riding shotgun started screaming. The car saw me and swerved out of the way just in time (thank God). The other time, I was racing another young brat in his BMW on a backcountry road. I spun out and narrowly avoided sliding into a copse of trees. That‚Äôs what happens when you give something powerful and shiny to a 16-year-old. When I blew out the clutch on my toy, I traded it in for a luxury SUV and started driving a little more like a grown-up. So I survived high school. Coming Into My Inheritance I am a trust fund baby. Ever since I can remember, I knew that there was an investment account with my name on it with enough money to buy a home, in cash. Every month, money drops into my checking account. It‚Äôs a solid middle class salary, untaxed, and it‚Äôs contingent on nothing. I don‚Äôt have to work for it, nor can anyone take it away from me if I behave badly. I did nothing to earn it, unless you count growing up without a dad‚Äîit stemmed from a wrongful death lawsuit. Every year the annuity increases by 3%, and it will continue to show up, every month, until I die. RELATED:¬†What Do You Do When Your Kid Inherits Money? As far as trust funds go, it‚Äôs no Hilton fortune. My mom claims she could have negotiated for a much larger settlement, but she chose an amount that meant my sister and I could do what we love but still be motivated to earn money. (For the record, that was a really smart move.) However, that was the extent of her financial education. In our household, budgets were not discussed: Money showed up, and we spent it. My mom seemed to take pleasure in cultivating two young women with a taste for fine dining and expensive clothes. Then, when I turned 21, I was handed a shit ton of money. Here‚Äôs something to consider if you ever want to do the same for your kids. (When you‚Äôre done laughing, I‚Äôll continue.) The prefrontal cortex, which helps you make responsible decisions, isn‚Äôt fully developed until you‚Äôre 25. So I wasn‚Äôt really capable of making the best decisions concerning my money. I didn‚Äôt even get a financial adviser to go along with it, just my mom‚Äôs advice to ‚ÄúAlways pay off your credit card bill every month.‚Äù Well. That was easy. First, I took a summer in Europe and brought along a little guide to shopping. Whenever I was bored, I took off for a new boutique. I had enough sense to back out of the stores selling $4,000 gowns. But I racked up about $15,000 on my new card in three months. Then I paid it off by selling some stocks. No big deal. When I missed my flight home, I just bought a new ticket. Being a trust fund baby felt like a core part of my identity. You couldn‚Äôt understand me without understanding that‚Äîbut I didn‚Äôt want people to know. Managing My Money I researched heavily before taking over my investment account. I was petrified (and still am) of making a stupid mistake that could decimate it. When the market tanked in 2008, a year after the documents had been signed giving me control, I took the lazy route and left my investments as is. An excellent decision, it turns out. RELATED:¬†How to Keep Your Cool When You‚Äôre Investing After college I moved to New York City, land of a thousand trust fund babies. As I searched for apartments, I pulled a rent number out of my butt, without ever looking at my supposed budget. ‚Äú$1,400 seems reasonable, right, Mom?‚Äù She agreed. Finding a job took some time, but I was more bored than panicky. In fact, I was the clich√© everyone loves to hate. I spent my days eating organic eggs benedict at the local caf√©, doing The New York Times crossword puzzle, then traipsing off to afternoon yoga. I fell into a group of friends who, like me, had outside financial resources (read: rich parents). We spent our money on shopping, ski trips, all-night parties with $50 entry and drugs. I could blow $350 in a weekend on coke, ecstasy and alcohol. I felt like I was being reasonable. I enjoyed dressing well, but felt good about not buying the quilted Chanel bag I coveted. I would do weird things like walk 30 minutes downtown to avoid paying subway fare, then blow $250 on a purse when I got there. I donated lavishly to charity. One time I wired $6,000 to Thailand to help out a former tour guide who was in a financial scrape. RELATED:¬†Are You an Over-Giver? When Generosity Is Bad for Your Friendships I did finally land a job I loved, and worked hard at it. I still partied, but I had the sense to keep my partying to the weekends, showing up on time and never coked up or drunk. Leading a Double Life Still, I felt guilty. There were clues, of course, that I had something unusual going on in my bank account. Editorial assistants are notoriously low-paid (which is probably why it attracts so many entitled white girls). At work one day, I kicked off my shoes and a coworker sang, ‚ÄúCaroline is wearing Prada sandals!‚Äù ‚ÄúThey were on sale,‚Äù I retorted. (True, but they were still $350.) I felt like I was secretly being judged. When friends embarked on apartment hunts, they‚Äôd email and ask how much mine cost, leaving me no choice but to break the news that, no, they couldn‚Äôt afford something in my neighborhood. The few vacation days I had I spent in Europe and the Caribbean. After dating a guy for a month, I would invariably blurt out, ‚ÄúI‚Äôm a trust fund baby!‚Äù I was sure he‚Äôd figured it out already. RELATED: ¬†Quiz: Do You Have Money Comparisonitis? Being a trust fund baby felt like a core part of my identity, like my sexual orientation or being a writer. You just couldn‚Äôt understand me fully without understanding that‚Äîbut I still didn‚Äôt want people to know. When I told close friends, I did it in the hushed tones of an ex-convict. Every time she got jealous, my very best friend told me, she‚Äôd remind herself that my dad was dead and hers was alive. My sister had blown through her account on one and a half graduate degrees and five career starts. But she gave me excellent advice: Don‚Äôt pay for other people‚Äôs stuff. It can ruin a friendship. So when a friend would say she couldn‚Äôt afford dinner and just wanted to drink some wine at the apartment, I bit my tongue and agreed. A Double-Edged Sword I was spending $1,000 more per month than I was taking in, but it didn‚Äôt register; my investments were appreciating as the stock market recovered. I wanted to live within my means, to ‚Äúlive like a normal 25-year-old,‚Äù but when I wanted to buy something, I couldn‚Äôt tell myself no. There were never any consequences. I could pay off any credit card bill with a click of a button. I knew that I wanted to keep my trust fund intact, but for what? I didn‚Äôt want to buy a home yet. I could start a business, but doing what? The only thing I really wanted to do was enjoy my life while I was still young and cute. But I was also besieged by self-doubt. Would I be a better person if I had to struggle? Would I actually go out and get freelance assignments (instead of partying on the weekends) if I needed them to pay the bills? Should I just donate it all to charity? RELATED:¬†Your Ultimate Budget Guideline: The 50/20/30 Rule Every time I had a hard day at work, I would think, ‚ÄúI could just quit. It doesn‚Äôt matter.‚Äù What saved me was my inherent love of writing, and the recognition that quitting would make me an insufferable brat that even I wouldn‚Äôt want to live with. Having that money sitting there gave me license to do anything. I would always be able to bail myself out of jail, pay off a hospital bill, hire a fancy lawyer. The only thing stopping me was a sense of propriety and concern for my reputation. Hitting (Spiritual) Bottom Still, I knew this couldn‚Äôt be the point of life. I started to study Buddhism, with its emphasis on non-attachment to worldly things. I read nonfiction books, which told me that strong relationship bonds, not money, were the best predictor of happiness. And I discovered that there is a peculiar emptiness that comes with leaving a snobby boutique loaded down with $1,500 worth of clothes and nowhere to wear them. Then, one day, I woke up. Literally. I was staring at the ceiling in my apartment, remembering the fight I‚Äôd had the night before with my friend (something about her offering coke to my straight-edge sister and me complaining about it to a mutual friend). She‚Äôd stomped out and left me at the club, alone, as¬† the lights came on. My heart was still racing from too many uppers, and suddenly I was having a panic attack. I was sobbing, barely able to breathe. I felt hollow. Were these real friends? Was this real life? Money, I realized, had bought me a well-lined, suffocating nest. RELATED: Fact: Money Doesn‚Äôt Buy Happiness! It was my 25th birthday when I realized the rules applied to me too. By that I meant the rules of personal finance, like budgets and savings accounts, but also the rules of life, like choosing good friends and treating your body well. Money, I had discovered, was not a magic bullet. Working hard, a little bit of self-denial and being nice just might be. A Fresh Start Slowly, I started to change.¬†I moved into an apartment with ugly brown carpeting in a boring neighborhood with a nice roommate. I started an emergency savings account, so I would stop selling off stocks to fund my whims. I made new friends who were struggling to make ends meet on their meager salaries. And I enthusiastically embraced $5 tacos for my 25th birthday dinner. I stopped doing coke. Shopping ‚Ä¶ well, it‚Äôs still a little bit of a problem. I‚Äôm working on it. Am I happier? I think so. I haven‚Äôt had another panic attack. I get satisfaction from watching my emergency savings rise. And I adore my friends, especially since they keep me grounded. Case in point: I‚Äôve learned to love a summer stay-cation. I‚Äôm also grateful for the huge safety net I have beneath me. Let me repeat that: I am so outrageously grateful for the fact that I will never end up homeless, that I can afford to have a job I love, that I don‚Äôt have student loans. Money buys me freedom from stress and worry. But it‚Äôs true what they say: Money doesn‚Äôt buy happiness. It‚Äôs just a tool. If I use it wisely, I can inch closer to the life I want: an apartment of my own in the big city, a byline in a respected magazine and a tight-knit group of friends. As I found out‚Äîthankfully early on‚Äîit can also be a dangerous vehicle for self-destruction. So there you go, that‚Äôs the whole, unvarnished truth. Have at me in the comments. *The name of the contributor has been changed to protect her identity and her financial accounts. Love reading other people‚Äôs financial tales? Check out more great LearnVest-exclusive¬†personal stories.
Electric car battery supplier Better Place plans to file for bankruptcy within the next few days, CNN Money reports. Better Place was a proponent of battery swapping technology, which involves replacing an electric car's depleted battery, rather than charging it. Saving that kind of time would be a huge boon for the electric vehicle industry, which is hamstrung by battery technology that keeps charge times long, range limited, and prices high. Better Place, founded in¬†2007 by Israeli entrepreneur Shai Agassi, proved in 2010 it could swap out and replace a battery in under 60 seconds, far faster than even the best EV charging times. According to the New York Times,¬†Agassi, a former top executive at SAP, raised over $800 million in private capital from investors including HSBC, General Electric, and Morgan Stanley. It built a small network of stations in Denmark and Israel. But between 2010 and February 2013, it posted $477 million in cumulative losses. That month, it announced it would close its operations in North America and Australia, and continue working in Israel and Denmark. That move could not save it, however, and the electric vehicle market did not expand at the pace the company had expected, according to CNN Money. "The company was not well-served by having things it thought would happen over a decade happen within a year," a source told CNN. "Ultimately the idea was always based around scale, and it just didn't build it fast enough or well enough." This news comes as Tesla Motors ‚Äî riding high after becoming profitable and paying off its loan from the Department of Energy ‚Äî plans to announce news about its Supercharger network, where its customers can charge their car batteries halfway in 30 minutes, for free.  There is speculation that Tesla will announce a battery swapping scheme, which seems less likely now, given the expected failure of the company that had gone the furthest in making the technology a reality.
We're giving you a chance to win a¬†Kindle Fire HD. ¬†Become a newsletter subscriber now¬†to enter. ¬†If you're the lucky winner you will have a host of features at your fingertips. ¬† Entry deadline is May 31. As a newsletter subscriber, you'll get daily updates and alerts on topics that matter most to you.¬†You must subscribe to at least one newsletter to be eligible, so if you haven't already, be sure to choose one or more before submitting your entry. On or after May 31, 2013, we'll announce the lucky winner. You must be a legal resident of the U.S. and a newsletter subscriber to win.
The drop in gold prices since the beginning of the year has broken the spirits of investors seeking it as a safe haven for their wealth. Short positions are at all-time highs, and the chartists will tell you that there has been "considerable technical damage" done. However, Citi's Tom Fitzpatrick sees some hope in his charts. "On a medium-to-long-term basis we remain very bullish on Gold," writes Fitzpatrick via King World News.† He considers a recent price pattern, which would suggest prices could go much lower before goin higher. "That low (in gold) was hit at $682 in October 2008, and within 3 years Gold had rallied to $1,921," he wrote.† "A similar fall and rally would see Gold at $1260 near-term and then above $3,500 by 2016." Fitzpatrick believes this bullish trend will be supported by fundamentals.† Specifically, the debt and the debt ceiling. "As can be seen from the chart [below], Gold has never stayed below that ìstairway to hellî for very long," he wrote referring to the statutory debt limit.† "Given that the debt limit number is going to continue higher, a re-emergence of Gold strength looks inevitable.† A lot of ìconsidered opinionî suggests that by the end of the present electoral term (end of 2016 when new presidential elections take place), that the US debt limit will be at around $22 trillion USD." Citi via King World News

Daniel Goodman/Business InsiderNoon? Yes. Media company¬†Flavorpill, along with Absolut Vodka,¬†have come up with a new party concept called¬†Lunch Break.¬†¬† Lunch Break is a one-hour, full-on dance party that brings the free spirit of nightlife culture to the middle of the day. Click here to see photos &gt; This one's for the salad warriors ‚Äî for the people who normally spend their lunch hour munching on chickpeas, replying to clients' e-mails, or fiddling with their excel models. Lunch Break offers an alternative. It encourages you to once in a while get out of your seat, bypass your usual chopped salad spot, and go to a rager for an hour. Have one drink. Dance. Then go back to work, sit in your seat, and get back to your normal routine. How's that sound? That's what Flavorpill has been trying to get workers around NYC to do since last summer. The media company has been planning some of the most innovative parties in the country for the last 12 years. They like mashing things up ‚Äî having dancers in the Guggenheim, putting house DJs in the MoMA. ¬†Unique experiences are in their DNA.¬† Business Insider checked out the last edition, which was held Thursday afternoon in downtown New York City. Questlove, as you probably know, DJ'd. Questlove is a serious DJ. Lunch Break's spinners have all been top quality. Flavorpill has picked serious New York City nightclubs as the venues. Lunch Break isn't an amateur attempt at a gimmick party, it's the real deal.¬† Founder Sascha Lewis explained that the combination of aesthetics is an important part of the experience of escape. At the party, he's everywhere ‚Äî part host, part hype man, dancing hard and moving incognito among the crowd. Flavorpill is trying to use culture to transport you to a different place where all that matters is the party, he explained in a phone interview. The music wakes people's bodies up. "That's part of the mission of Flavorpill," said Lewis, "to get people off the couch and away from their computers and out having amazing cultural experiences." Lunch Breaks are an idea that may have come at just the right time as more and more workers have flexible schedules and can work remotely. Nate, a 38-year-old ad salesmen we met at the party said plainly: "As long as I get my work done, my boss doesn't care." Nate has been to Lunch Break parties before. As he flirted with us, he said the concept was good, the music was always top notch and the women were always good looking.¬† It's light-hearted fun in the middle of a work day. There were suits and creatives there. We met lawyers and even a banker, and no, he wouldn't tell us what he does. At the end of the party Flavorpill sends partiers home with a brown paper bag lunch. Lewis is now working on expanding Lunch Break to Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, and Los Angeles. Think it'll catch on? We think it just might. See you at the next one!
(AP Photo/Paul Sakuma)Last month, Business Insider took a deep dive into how to decide whether you should get your CFA or MBA ‚Äî now we're getting more personal. We found that both accreditations have their purposes. For example, the CFA charter is better if you want to be an analyst, and the MBA is better if you want a more diverse skill set. But this is a hotly debated topic, one that get people frothing at the mouth and rolling their eyes. So there's a lot more to be broken down here. We reached out to sources who hold either CFA charters or MBA degrees to find out what makes one better than the other. This time around we're featuring the MBA, but don't worry, the CFA will get its day.
By:¬† Peter Schiff Thursday, May 23, 2013 While the world's economies jockey one another for the lead in the currency devaluation derby, it's worth considering the value of the prize they are seeking. They believe a weak currency opens the door to trade dominance, by allowing manufacturers to undercut foreign rivals, and to economic growth, by fighting deflation. On the other side of the coin, they believe a strong currency is an economic albatross that leads to stagnation. But the demonstrable effects of currency strength and weakness reveal the emptiness of their theory. A country that attracts investment from abroad (through stable and fair governance, low taxes, a growing economy, and a productive labor force) and produces goods that are in demand on the global stage will generally see a rising currency. In essence, this is the reward for a job well done. Strong currencies then help nations stay strong by conferring greater purchasing power to its citizens and businesses, which keeps input costs low, thereby enhancing international competitiveness. Strong currencies also encourage savings, keep real interest rates low, lower capital costs, and allow for greater productivity and higher real wages. It is often argued that a weak currency confers advantages in foreign trade. But the edge only results from putting exports on sale. Any merchant will tell you that it's easy to sell more if you cut prices, but most would prefer charging full retail. However, exports are not an end in themselves, they are a means to pay for imports. The goal of an economy is not to work, but to consume. If citizens in one nation buy goods produced in another, they must pay with exports. When a nation's currency appreciates imports cost less and fewer exports are needed to pay. This means goods and services at home will be cheaper and more plentiful,¬†and citizens won't need to work as hard to buy them. This is the definition of rising living standards. But when it comes to relative currency valuations, the United States dollar exists in a world of its own. As the international reserve, the dollar is the de-facto beneficiary of any other country's intervention. When countries intervene, they do so specifically against the dollar. In addition, many countries, (China and Taiwan for instance) maintain a pegged relationship to the Greenback. Therefore in a world dominated by interventionist banks, the factors that push the dollar have been inverted.¬† The dollar falls when fundamentals either improve abroad or deteriorate at home (both cases increase the propensity for intervention). The rest of the world's currencies compete on their own merit. As a result, it is not an accident that over the last decade Australia, New Zealand, and Switzerland, three of the world's strongest economies, have produced strong currencies. Since 2001, all three have had generally appreciating currencies, accompanied by steadily rising exports, strong economic fundamentals, and low unemployment. From 2001 to 2012, the Kiwi Dollar appreciated by 98% against the U.S. dollar, but its exports in local currency terms increased by 40% (170% in U.S. dollar terms). Over the same time frame, the Aussie dollar appreciated by 103% and exports increased by 102% in local currency (and 305% in U.S. dollar terms). In Switzerland the story was the same, currency up 82%, exports up 53% in local terms and (and 175% in U.S. terms). Where exactly did they encounter export troubles due to their rising currencies? At the same time, the strengthening currencies made few negative impacts on other aspects of economic performance. At the time when the Swiss bankers caved to international pressure in September 2011 and pegged its previously surging franc to the euro, their economy had shown some of the best economic performance on the Continent. More recently, Australia and New Zealand reported stunning job creation figures. Adjusted for population, the U.S. would have had to create more than 600,000 jobs per month to keep pace with Australia, and 900,000 jobs per month to match New Zealand (U.S. job creation has averaged about 169,000 per month over the last year). These lessons have been wholly lost on the Japanese who are frantically trying (and succeeding) in severely devaluing the yen. Although Japan's export machine had not suffered from the yen's appreciation from 2001-2012 (up 30% in local currency exports and 98% in dollar terms), newly installed prime minister Shinzo Abe and his minions at the Bank of Japan believe a weaker yen is the key to renewed economic strength. But the collapse of the yen has helped push up both the Aussie and Kiwi dollars, which has spurred bankers in Australia and New Zealand into taking unneeded and ultimately self-destructive actions. In April they threw in their lot with the interventionists and cut interest rates to stop the rise of their currencies. But the moves fly in the face of the modern playbook which states that policy should be tightened during periods of full employment, strong growth, and surging real estate prices. The misplaced fear of a strong currency seems to trump all other concerns. While there is little reason to believe that strong currencies stifle exports, there is ample evidence that they increase domestic purchasing power (which is a real test of economic success). In the United States, oil currently sells for about $97 per barrel, about 16% below the $113 high price seen in April 2011. And so while our economy falters, at least consumers are not saddled with surging energy costs. While the 20% devaluation of the yen since that high in 2011 has made Japan the champion of Keynesian economists, it also means that oil in Japan is currently selling for the highest price since the financial crisis of 2008-2009. And it's not just oil, the Japanese must pay more for everything they import. How this benefits the rank and file has yet to be properly explained. The latest data confirms that the banzai attack on the yen has not helped Japan's trade position. The weaker currency led to higher import costs, resulting in the 10th month in a row of trade deficits. Although April exports rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier, the trade deficit widened to 879.9 billion yen ($8.6 billion), the worst April since at least 1979. But the falling yen is creating a clear and present danger in Japan's enormous bond market. In less than one month, yields on 10 year Japanese Government Bonds have more than doubled, approaching nearly 1%. While those rates may sound manageable for most countries, Japan has the highest debt to GDP ratio in the developed world. If they had to pay 2% (the same rate as its inflation target), the country would need to devote more than half of its tax revenue just to service its debt! Clearly this possibility is dawning on stock investors who pushed down the Nikkei by more 7% today. Never in the course of history has a country's economy failed because its currency was too strong. It's a pathology that simply does not exist. On the other hand, the list of those ruined by weak currencies is extensive. The view that a weak currency is desirable is so absurd that it could only have been devised to serve the political agenda of those engineering the descent. And while I don't blame policy makers from spinning self-serving fairy tales (that is their nature), I find extreme fault with those hypnotized members of the media and the financial establishment who have checked their reason at the door. A currency war is different from any other kind of conventional war in that the object is to kill oneself. The nation that succeeds in inflicting the most damage on its own citizens wins the war. The only real way to win is not to play. To order your copy of Peter Schiff's latest book, The Real Crash: America‚Äôs Coming Bankruptcy ‚Äì How to Save Yourself and Your Country, click here. For in-depth analysis of this and other investment topics, subscribe to Peter Schiff's Global Investor newsletter. CLICK HERE for your free subscription. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital ¬ª
They say that every cloud has a silver lining. If future energy consumption (which is†mostly fossil fuel) drops because of a financial collapse brought on by high oil prices and other limits, then, at least in theory, climate change should be less of a problem. † One of the important variables in climate change models is the amount of †carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels that enters the atmosphere. In a recent post†(Peak Oil Demand is Already a Huge†Problem), I showed the following estimate of future energy consumption. (See chart at right.) Gail TverbergFigure 1. One view of future energy consumption for the world as a whole. History is based on BPís 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy.I explained in that post that oil limits are different from what most people expect. Oil limits are price limits. Indirectly because of these price limits, fuel consumption of all sorts (not just oil) will decline in the near future. The problem will be greater job loss and an inability to afford products of many kinds, including those made with fossil fuels. Financial collapse, particularly of governments, and a long-term decline in population are also part of this scenario. My estimate of CO2 generation by fossil fuels in the 21st century is only about one-quarter of the amount (range midpoint) assumed in the 2007 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Report. When differences in estimates of an important variable are this far apart, one starts reaching the ìGarbage in, garbage outî problem. This is a persistent problem for all modelers. Even if the climate model is perfect apart from the estimate of future CO2 fossil fuel use, and even if anthropogenic issues are implicated as a cause of recent climate changes, the model can with its incorrect estimate of future fossil fuel energy consumption can still be unhelpful for determining needed future actions. A comparison of energy consumption estimates is shown in Figure 2. My estimate of energy consumption (similar to that in Figure 1) is shown as the Collapse scenario. Gail TverbergFigure 2. Comparison of Energy Consumption Estimates. Climate high and Climate low are based on Figure 1 of this Oil Drum post by DeSousa and Mearns. ìPeak oilî is based on a 2013 estimate by Energy Watch Group. Collapse is my estimate, associated with Figure 1 of this post. In all of the estimates, there is an implicit assumption that the fuel mix stays relatively constant.Figure 2 Explanation The†Collapse Scenario†in Figure 2 is my estimate of future energy consumption, using amounts similar to Figure 1 of this post. It is based on the assumption that financial limits are what brings down the system. As the system is brought down, our capability to provide many basic services, such as our ability to maintain roads and electric transmission lines, disappears. Thus, we become unable to maintain the complex systems needed to extract oil and gas and coal, and because of this, are unable to maintain current energy supplies. Even renewables will become a problem, because we need fossil fuels to create new renewable energy generation. We also need fossil fuels to maintain the lines used to transmit the electricity, and to provide back-up generation. If the problem we are facing is financial collapse, biomass can be expected to behave differently than other renewable energy resources. If people are poorer, there will be great demand for wood for heating, and perhaps for creating metals and glass. In fact, there is evidence that Greece is turning to wood burning already. (Greece is an early example of a country approaching the financial problems we expect world wide.) Thus, under the Collapse Scenario, a likely problem is deforestation. The Peak Oil Scenario shown in Figure 2 is based on a 2013 estimate by the Energy Watch Group. The assumption in estimates using ìPeak Oilî ways of evaluating supplies is that geological constraints determine supply. The question of price doesnít come into the analysis; instead curve fitting techniques are used. If oil supplies decline, the assumption is made that natural gas and coal extraction will to some extent rise to offset the oil decline. Many who support the peak oil method of calculating expected availability of future fuel supplies are advocates of a ramp-up of wind and solar PV. One reason use of these resources is supported is because fossil fuels are seen to be limited, and renewables might act as ìfossil fuel extendersî. I personally am concerned about adding intermittent renewables to the grid in large quantities. Doing so is likely to shorten the†lifespan of the grid, if the intermittent renewables introduce greater cost and complexity. I believe that peak oil estimates are overstated because they do not consider the economics of depleting fossil fuel supplies. Oil consumption by importers starts to decline if price is highñsomething that happens long before world oil supply actually starts to decline. James Hamilton has shown that 10 out of 11 US recessions since World War II were associated with oil price spikes. (Recession tends to lead to less consumption of many products, including oil.) At the same time, oil exporters need high prices, and have financial problems if price or production declines too much. If exporters do not get enough revenue from oil exports, some of them collapse. See my post†How Oil Exporters Reach Financial†Collapse. The Climate High and Climate Low estimates are based on carbon amounts shown in Figure 1 of this 2008 Oil Drum post by De Sousa and Mearns. In converting these carbon estimates to energy consumption estimates, I implicitly assumed that the carbon intensity of energy use would remain unchangedñthat is, improvements resulting from †more use of natural gas and renewables use would be offset by increases in coal consumption. This assumption is probably not what the IPCC would make. Their ìLow Estimateî would probably assume greater use of renewables and natural gas than their High Estimate, so that the actual energy available in their Low Estimate would be closer to the energy available in their High Estimate than what my graph would suggest. The †2007 IPCC report does not give much detail, except to generally discuss their reasoning. The IPCCís basic assumptions seem to be: 1. Demand is the basic determiner of supply. In the view of the IPCC, there is lots of oil, gas, and coal in the ground (see Figure 4.2 of Working Group III Report). It is assumed that we can get these fuels out, essentially as fast as we want. No consideration is given of diminishing returns, and the resulting likely run-up in both needed investment funds and †price to the user. (See†Our Investment Sinkhole†Problem.) 2. Because the IPCC report misses the issue of diminishing returns and resulting higher price, it assumes that demand can keep on ramping up pretty much indefinitely. In the real word, demand is what customers can afford to buy. This is already declining for the US, Europe and Japan, with the high oil prices experienced in recent years. Gail TverbergFigure 3. Oil consumption by part of the world, based on EIA data. 2012 world consumption data estimated based on world ìall liquidsî production amounts.Overview of IPCC 2007 Report As I see it, there are three important aspects †of the 2007 IPCC analysis: 1. The Climate Model. This is the part of the report that says, if CO2 is such and such, and other forcings are so much, the effect on the climate is this amount. I personally do not have expertise to evaluate this part of the report. I note, however, that at least some climate scientists seem to be back-pedalling on how much impact is expected from a given amount of carbon. A letter published in Nature Geoscience on May 19, 2013, titled Energy Budget Constraints on Climate Response indicates that the climate effects of a given set of forcings seems to be lower than the 2007 IPCC report suggested. This letter, together with explanatory information is available free for download, with registration. 2. The Estimates of Fossil Fuels going into the Model. It is this part of the model that seems to be seriously in error. The carbon added during the 21st century in the Collapse Scenario is only about 25% of what the IPCC estimates use (averaging the high and low) . De Sousa and Mearns†calculate that their†Peak Oil estimates†would keep CO2 emissions below 450 parts per million. My Collapse Scenario estimates are considerably below De Sousa and Mearnís Peak Oil estimates, so would in theory produce lower yet CO2 impacts. 3. What to Do About the Problem. I think this part of IPCC report has a serious problem as well. The report, as it is published, is not about How to Reduce CO2 Emissions. If this had been the goal, the report would likely have talked about reducing population, eating less meat, making manufactured goods that last longer, and standardizing goods, so that it is not necessary to buy new goods, just replacement parts. Instead, the IPCC 2007 report provides a wish list of ways we might keep Business as Usual (BAU) going, using techniques that might reduce fossil fuel use with little pain to the business community and consumers. A big part of the problem with the analysis of what to do about the problem is that the researchers putting together the analysis do not understand the way the current system works. According to Newtonís Third Law of Motion, ìFor every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.î Unfortunately, there is something very similar when one tries to make energy substitutions. A researcher might assume that substitution of higher-priced renewable energy for lower-priced fossil fuel energy would reduce world carbon emissions, but this is true only if second and third order effects donít undo the supposed benefit. Higher-priced fuels make a country less competitive in the world marketplace, and give an advantage to countries using coal for their generation. Adding a carbon tax has similar unplanned effects.Gail TverbergFigure 4. Actual world carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels, as shown in BPís 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy. Fitted line is expected trend in emissions, based on actual trend in emissions from 1987-1997, equal to about 1.0% per year.†When we look at actual CO2 emissions, we find that they have risen remarkably since the Kyoto Protocol was ratified in 1997 (Figure 3, above). (See my posts,†Twelve Reasons Why Globalization is a Huge Problem†and†Climate Change: The Standard Fixes Donít†Work.) One of the implicit assumptions in the IPCC report is that continued growth in a finite world makes sense, and can be expected to continue until 2100. In fact, we are reaching limits of many kinds. In fact, modelers should be considering all of the limits simultaneously. Modeling any one limit on Figure 5 by itself will produce results that will suggest that that limit is a huge problem, that perhaps can be fixed. To a significant extent, there are workarounds for many of these problems, including more research on antibiotics, desalination of water, and intermittent renewables to substitute for some fossil fuels.†The problem with each of these workarounds is that they all involve higher cost, and thus tend to create financial problems, especially for governments that try to fix the problems. Thus, the real issue is a likely near-term financial problem. This financial problem can be expected to lead to economic shrinkage which will by itself help mitigate several of the problems, including climate change. Given the multiple limits we are reaching, I think we need to step back. Energy is truly needed to create products and services of all kinds. The IPCC is claiming that with a few tweaks, economic growth of the type we have grown to expect can continue until the year 2100. †This assertion is clearly false, with or without the tweaks they are advocating. We need to be figuring out how to live with a world that is rapidly changing for the worse, in terms of energy availability. I am not sure climate change should be our Number 1 concern, because the CO2 part of the problem is likely to mostly take care of itself. Instead, we need to be looking at how we can make the best use possible of energy sources we have. We also need to be cutting back on the real source of demandñpopulation growth. Perhaps we need to be thinking about different options than we have been thinking about to dateñfor example, making supply chains shorter and bringing production closer to the end-user. We might want to make such a change in†an attempt to sustain production for longer, whether or not this has an adverse CO2 effect, viewed from todayís peculiar perspective: Only manufacturing which results in local CO2 production seems to be viewed as ìbad;î exporting coal to China, or importing goods manufactured using coal from China/ India is not viewed as a problem. †Having economists with a mindset of BAU forever and helping businesses get ahead, doesnít necessarily produce the best results from the point of view of taking care of the existing population. Perhaps we should be looking at our current problems from a broader perspective than the IPCC report suggests. †
AP In January of this year, David Cameron had a problem. Over the past few years his party had grown divided over the U.K.'s membership in the European Union. What's more, they were slowly being squeezed by an upstart party, Nigel Farage's UKIP ‚Äî an anti-immigration, anti-Europe party that had slowly but surely been gaining in opinion polls, while Cameron's Conservative Party slowly but surely made losses. So Cameron had a plan. In a widely anticipated speech, the British prime minister announced that a referendum on Europe membership would take place between 2015 and the end of 2017. At first it seemed like a brilliant tactic, placating the eurosceptics in UKIP and his own party by agreeing to put the vote in the public's hands. The timing was key too. By setting the date a few years in the future, after the UK's next general election, he could concentrate on what really mattered ‚Äî actually winning the election (the Conservatives, part of a coalition government, have trailed the opposition party Labour in all recent opinion polls). Now, four months later, one thing is clear. The plan was an potentially devastating failure. Here's why. "All he's trying to do is to kick the can down the road and to try and get UKIP off his back," Nigel Farage said after the referendum was announced. Farage's viewpoint seems popular. According to one recent YouGov poll, just 17% think he feels strongly about the issue, while 64% think it was a "tactical calculation." 55% believe Farage feels strongly about Europe, for contrast, with just 22% thinking its a calculation. What's more, by accepting that Europe is an issue, Cameron seems to be accepting UKIP's grievance, perhaps further legitimizing the party. Earlier this month, UKIP had a huge night in local elections, gaining a large number of council seats while the Conservatives lost seats. The rebels in the Conservative party don't appear to have been placated either. The Financial Times notes that the 40 or so "unbiddable" rebels in the party have been joined by the most rebellious backbench of any party since the second world war. These rebels have continued to cause problems on Europe since January. Most recently, 114 Tory rebels backed a bill that slammed the lack of an in-out EU referendum Bill in the Queen‚Äôs Speech (which sets out a legislative agenda for each new parliament), forcing Cameron to put out a draft bill reassuring the rebels of his intentions. The prime minister has also been forced to put a three-line whip (the most serious) on the government's referendum bill, which will take place next month. The situation has soured to the point where an unnamed source, close to Cameron, was quoted as calling the Tory activists "swivel-eyed loons." Perhaps not coincidentally, UKIP scored its highest result ever in one controversial poll after the comments went out ‚Äî coming just 2 points within the Conservatives. There's one strange facet of this whole situation. Despite the fact that the issue of Europe has engulfed the Conservative Party, the average voter doesn't necessarily care too much about it. The most recent YouGov poll found that 72% of voters think that the economy is amongst the top three most important issues for the UK. 56% voted for immigration and 31% voted for health care. While the polls do show that Europe has become a much larger issue for voters in the past few years, there is a serious danger that the Conservatives are obsessing over Europe at a time when most voters are more worried about other things ‚Äî unemployment, living standards, etc. Perhaps the rift within the Conservative Party perhaps isn't even about Europe. The UK Polling Report has written that "UKIP support is not particularly connected with Europe, it is an anti-immigration vote and protest vote against some aspects of modern Britain, a general reactionary vote in support of taking Britain back to a status quo ante." This is probably why the "swivel-eyed loons" comment was so controversial and why the Europe rebellion has coincided with a backlash against Cameron's gay marriage plans. The Eton-educated Conservative elite that Cameron is both a part of and surrounds himself with may be comfortable with modern England, but the Conservative's middle class base ‚Äî the stereotypical "little Englanders" who have little in common with Cameron's global mindset. If 46 Conservative MPs request a leadership contest, one must be held, and Paddy Power gives odds of 9/2 that Cameron will face a challenge and lose. The Financial Times lists a few possible rivals, but there's a problem with them all ‚Äî can they actually win the 2015 election? Cameron's personal popularity remains relatively high in polls when contrasted to Labour leader Ed Miliband and Liberal Democrat's Nick Clegg. Given that neither Labour or the Lib Dems will commit to a 2015 EU referendum, the Tory rebels may decide Cameron is their best bet.
APThe collapse of a bridge carrying Interstate Highway 5 in Washington State on Thursday has reignited the debate about America's decaying infrastructure. Although this collapse was¬†apparently caused¬†by a truck with an oversize load hitting a girder, the bridge was not in great condition to start. The bridge was inspected last year and received a "sufficiency rating" of 47 out of 100, according to The Wall Street Journal. That's not great, but there are worse bridges out there. It was not among the¬†11.5 percent of US bridges, crossed by an average of¬†282,672,680 vehicles daily, deemed "structurally deficient"¬†by the Federal Highway Administration¬†in 2011. A rating of structurally deficient or functionally obsolete doesn't mean a bridge is necessarily near collapse. But all of them need work, and many hold up traffic on some of America's busiest roadways. Using¬†a report from Transportation for America, we have picked out 17 of the most heavily-trafficked, structurally deficient, and functionally obsolete bridges in America.
REUTERS/Gretchen ErtlWe recently gave you UBS economist Drew Matus' opinion of why the labor force participation rate †ó the size of the labor force as a percentage of the overall population ó is falling. Basically, Matus said it's due less to an anemic economy than shifting (especially aging) demographics: there are just more old people still working in America these days. Now, as noted by Bill McBride, Merrill Lynch's Michelle Meyer has weighed in with her own take, and she basically agrees:† The two primary secular trends are the decline in the LFPR among the youth population and the rise among 55+. The LFPR for 16 to 19 year olds plunged to 34.3% last year from 52% in 2000. While this may have been accelerated by the past two recessions, we believe this is a permanent trend. On the other end, the LFPR of the older population has increased, likely reflecting higher life expectancy, less confidence in social benefit programs and loss of wealth from the Great Recession. Meyer goes one step further and offers a projection of where the rate will go from here. Her answer: sideways, thanks to the cyclically improving economy. Here's her chart: BAML via Calculated Risk She writes: ...we forecast the LFPR will slip slightly this year, but with a stronger recovery under way next year, the LFPR should start to level off some and potentially increase beginning in 2015. The bounce-back won't happen right away, but it should be enough to partially ease the downward pressure from pure demographics, she says.
His point is that the BoJ faces a ‚Äúrational investor paradox‚Äù. The authorities are trying to drive up the inflation to 2pc and therefore to devalue Japanese government bonds (JGBs), so why on earth would you want to own them? ‚ÄúIf JGB investors begin to believe that Abenomics will be successful, they will ‚Äòrationally‚Äô sell JGBs to buy foreign bonds or equities,‚Äù he told Bloomberg He says the scramble to sell has ‚Äúoverwhelmed‚Äù buying by the BoJ. Governor Kuroda will now have double down with a huge increase in the scale of QE. The argument is similar to warnings by Nomura‚Äôs Richard Koo, Japan‚Äôs most famous economist and an arch-Keynesian. The two men reach the same conclusion coming from diametrically opposed theoretical starting points. As I reported last night, Mr Koo thinks the Abenomics plan of monetary reflation is madness. ‚ÄúOnce inflation concerns start to emerge the BoJ will be unable to restrain a rise in yields no matter how many bonds it buys.‚Äù This could lead a ‚Äúloss of faith in the Japanese government‚Äù and the ‚Äúbeginning of the end‚Äù for Japan‚Äôs economy. Mr Koo said the BoJ faces a ‚Äútime inconsistency problem‚Äù, a variant of Mr Bass‚Äôs paradox. Markets react more quickly to events than the economy. ‚ÄúThe Japanese authorities are trying to generate inflation first and then hope for recovery, which means debt service costs will increase before tax revenues do.‚Äù This will worsen the debt trajectory, set to reach 245pc of GDP this year (IMF), roughly where Britain ended the Napoleonic Wars. But then Britain produced half the world‚Äôs manufactured goods in the early 19th century, so it may be tougher for Japan. Mr Koo says ‚Äúlong-term rates may rise before the real economy‚Äù. If so lenders will respond to these signals more quickly that borrowers, choking credit. He says Kuroda has ‚Äúaltered the market structure of the last two decades‚Äù and undermined a fragile equilibrium, inviting a speculative attack on the JGB market by foreign hedge funds. So that then is the critique. I don‚Äôt agree that it is game over for Abenomics. My view is that the Keynesian doctrines of endless fiscal stimulus without monetary support advocated by Mr Koo over the years is the cause of Japan‚Äôs desperate crisis (though he says the economy could have achieved escape velocity long ago if they had done more of it, which is not as absurd as it sounds). Au contraire. Monetary policy should take the strain, pursuing a nominal GDP target of 3pc and later 4pc to turn the vicious circle of the ‚Äúdenominator effect‚Äù (ie a rising debt load on a shrinking nominal base) into a virtuous circle. Wikimedia CommonsKorekiyo TakahashiThis is what Takahashi Korekiyo achieved with such brilliance in the early 1930s, setting off a boom and falling debt ratios. Though he also forced the BoJ to finance fiscal spending too to kickstart recovery. I am not against that either if it works. In fact in it is a rather good idea (for Japan, not the UK obviously). Mr Koo‚Äôs argument that balance sheet recessions require radical action by governments is correct, but I refute his claims that QE was tried and failed in Japan. It was never tried. The BoJ meddled on the margins with pinprick purchases of short-term debt, buying from the banking system, and merely pushing up the monetary base. Of course it failed. Who cares about the monetary base. It is irrelevant. What they should have done is to conduct old-fashioned open-market operations, la Friedman, Fisher, Hawtrey, Cassel, or Keynes himself, buying long bonds from non-banks to force up the M3 money supply. That works, as Ben Bernanke discovered when he finally alighted upon the policy by accident late in the Fed‚Äôs QE efforts. True, the ructions in Japan over the last few days have been extraordinary. Governor Kuroda was forced to reassure the nation on Friday that the BoJ has the instruments to restore order to the bond markets Premier Shinzo Abe was very blunt in parliament, warning that ‚Äúsharp increases in long-term interest rates could have a grave impact on the economy and the government‚Äôs fiscal conditions. We expect the BOJ to respond appropriately,‚Äù he said. Mr Abe is not pleased, I would surmise, and quite understandably so since the BoJ seems to have cocked up badly. My guess is that JGB market will settle down once they work out how to execute the task. I stick with my view that the BoJ has the means to crush all resistance, and should do so. This may require financial repression. Rutaro Kono and Makoto Watanabe from BNP Paribas have an excellent note out this morning arguing that Kuroda will have to copy the ‚Äúpegging operations‚Äù of the Fed in the 1940s. INETeconomics / YouTubeRichard KooIn effect, the Fed became part of the Treasury‚Äôs debt management team as the budget deficit hit 25pc of GDP in WW2. It capped one-year notes at 0.875pc and 30-year bonds at 2.5pc. The markets knew that all necessary means would be used to hold the line (as the Swiss did in 2011 to hold the franc at 1.20 to the euro). It certainly worked. It allowed the US to whittle away its wartime debt through inflation and negative real rates. The creditors paid the price. It was an ‚Äúinflation tax‚Äù, or covert debt restructuring. That is what lies in store for Japan, and it will be horrible for pensioners, savers, and those expecting an annuity. Whether the authorities can pull it off it without capital controls is an interesting question. My guess is that controls will be part of the mix in the end, and much else besides. Tough. Leaders don‚Äôt run countries for the benefit of markets. But all this is clearly ‚Äúdoable‚Äù, and if the alternative is a spiral into mayhem and debt default, you can hardly blame Mr Abe for wanting to try. There was always a ‚ÄúHail Mary‚Äù element to this massive reflation experiment, a last-ditch effort to avert a debt compound spiral. The critics are right to say it may fail. But are they suggesting that the previous status quo was tenable? If Mr Bass happens to read this blog, I would like to know what he would do if he were prime minister of Japan. As for the countless readers demanding an apology from me for backing QE, Abenomics, and all the sins of monetarism: I defy you all. Read more by Ambrose Evans-Pritchard on Telegraph BlogsFollow Telegraph Blogs on Twitter 
Wikimedia CommonsU.S. stocks closed lower on Wednesday and Thursday. That's not something we're used to seeing too much lately. This morning, the bloodletting continues. The S&amp;P 500 is trading near 1644, down 0.4%. This comes after a totally insane session in Japan again Friday, which saw the market rally 3% in the early going before going red in the afternoon and then bouncing back by a hair late in the day. European markets closed in the red across the board. Spain took the worst of it there, ending down 1.0%. In commodities, WTI crude oil is down 0.4%, while metals and agricultural commodities are down pretty much across the board. Ten-year Treasury yields are a basis point lower at 2.01%, while Italian and Spanish government bond yields widened 11 and 12.5 basis points to 4.12% and 4.40%, respectively. Durable goods orders surprised to the upside this morning, but the release was unable to buoy markets.
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg now owns 14 properties worldwide after purchasing three Hamptons estates in as many years, Capital New York's Dana Rubinstein reports. In 2011, he bought a $20 million, 35-acre estate in Ballyshear. He has since acquired an adjacent home as well as a nearby 4.8 acre vacant plot of land. Bloomberg also owns property in London, Colorado, Bermuda and Florida. For the first time ever, he also disclosed that he has personal HSBC bank accounts in London, Paris, Bermuda and Hong Kong, in addition to his accounts in America. Read the full story at Capital New York &gt;
My adventure started yesterday in New York where I was taking a Delta flight to St Louis to attend a meeting. The combination of a late incoming aircraft and a busy airport meant that, by the time we got in line for the runway, the ìair corridorsî out were blocked by serious thunderstorms. We waited and waited on the tarmac. Almost three hours later we were back at the gate for a ìfuel and go.î We were allowed to deplane Ö with one rather important proviso. Delta could not unload any of the bags, including those that were gate checked. As this was one of those small commuter planes with tiny overheads, virtually everyone had given up their carry-ons. So only a couple of people got off the plane. Back to the tarmac we went for another 3 hours before we finally took off for a rather bumpy 2 Ω hour flight. Now this was a packed plane with almost 70 on board and one (over-used) bathroom. People were rather crammed, and most had run out of batteries for their phones, computers and tablets. Food was limited. Yet rather than complain and get edgy, the vast majority was engaging. Indeed, the mood on the plane was pleasant. You heard very few, if any, complaints when we finally landed in St. Louis, some 7 hours after our scheduled time. Sure important meetings had been missed and plans badly disrupted; but there was a sense of community and, yes, even achievement. Waiting now (the next day) for yet another delayed flight (American this time), I canít help thinking how yesterdayís crowd dynamic was so different from what I have previously experienced on long delays. Why? The cause of the delay ñ bad weather ñ was visible to all, and deemed by everyone to be outside the control of the airline. The pilot spoke to us often even though he mostly told us that he knew as much as us (i.e., very, very little). Yet the constant communication proved re-assuring. And whenever he turned off the engines as we waited on the tarmac, he quickly released the ìfasten seat beltî sign and we were allowed to use our electronics. The flight attendants were also terrific. They were patient, communicative, and caring about individual circumstances. Then there were the passengers. It was not long before we shared newspapers, snacks, magazines, stories and even family photos. The result was a supportive and friendly group which, as my wife reminded me on the phone last night, is typical of Midwesterners. By the end of the flight, people were exchanging e-mail addresses and some were even making plans for family get-togethers. There are many lessons here, particularly for business leaders. Yes adversity stinks. No one wishes it, and we all seek to avoid it. Yet, when it hits, there are upsides if the aftermath is well managed. Regular communication is essential, as is a genuine sense of caring and support. In most instances, groups will do better with a sense of community as opposed to just individually driven. And place the adversity in a larger context; most of the time, it wonít seem so overwhelming. Also, it sure does help to have a critical mass of Midwesterners there!! Happy weekend and safe travels to all.
The Office / NBCA couple of days ago, a BusinessWeek columnist, Liz Ryan, got everyone all hot and bothered by writing about sex at work. Sex at work is a reality, Liz Ryan argued. And it's time everyone just acknowledged that. (One lawyer told Ryan that his firm had to remove cameras from office stairwells because they kept recording attorneys jumping each other late at night. Ryan herself met her husband at work. And so on...) Anyway, we figured it would be a good idea to get some actual data on sex at work. So we put together the survey below. Please take a few minutes to fill it out. We'll publish the results soon. (And rest assured: We have no idea who you are. So your secrets will be safe!)¬†
Who needs Republicans when Wall Street has the Democrats? With the help of congressional Democrats, the Street is rolling back financial reforms enacted after its near meltdown. According to the†New York Times, a bill thatís already moved through the House Financial Services Committee, allowing more of the very kind of derivatives trading (bets on bets) that got the Street into trouble, was drafted by Citigroup ó whose recommended language was copied nearly word for word in 70 lines of the 85-line bill. Where were House Democrats? Right behind it. Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney, Democrat of New York, a major recipient of the Streetís political largesse, co-sponsored it. Most of the Democrats on the Committee, also receiving generous donations from the big banks, voted for it. Rep. Jim Himes, another proponent of the bill and a former banker at Goldman Sachs, now leads the Democratís fund-raising effort in the House. Bob Rubin ñ co-chair of Goldman before he joined the Clinton White House, and chair of Citigroupís management committee after he left it ñ is still influential in the Party, and his protÈgÈs are all over the Obama administration. I like Bob personally but I battled his Street-centric views the whole time I served, and soon after I left the administration he persuaded Clinton to support a repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act. Jack Lew, Obamaís current Treasury Secretary, was chief operating officer of Citigroupís Alternative Investments unit, a proprietary trading group, from 2006 to 2008, before he joined the Obama administration. Peter Orszag, Obamaís Director of the Office of Management and Budget, left the Obama Administration to become Citigroupís vice chairman of corporate and investment banking, and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions group. Flickr/Klearchos KapoutsisAll these men are honorable. None has broken any law. But they and their ilk in congress ñ the Democrats who are now rolling back Dodd-Frank ñ donít seem to appreciate the extent to which Wall Street has harmed, and continues to harm, America. Itís not entirely coincidental that the Obama Administration never put tough conditions on banks receiving bailout money, never prosecuted a single top Wall Street executive for the excesses that led to the near meltdown, and still refuses to support a tiny tax on financial transactions that would bring in tens of billions of dollars as well as discourage program trading. Democrats canít be trusted to control Wall Street. If there were ever an issue ripe for a third party, the Street would be it.
Many Americans continue to struggle, even four years after the height of the financial crisis. However, America's leaders should be praised for at least doing a better job than their counterparts in Europe. Take the unemployment rate. "The labour market is an example of the divergent performance between the two regions," wrote Deutsche Bank's economists in their new House View report. "Unemployment stood at roughly the same level in mid-2009. Since then, US unemployment has edged down to 7.5% while Eurozone unemployment has risen to record highs of 12.1%" So, as bad as things are in the U.S., they could be a lot worse. Deutsche Bank
The New York Times got a look at some e-mails between Wall Street's pack of lobbyists and some of D.C.'s most powerful legislators. The short version of this story is that lobbyists are still doing what they do ‚Äî influencing politics in favor of their clients ‚Äî and politicians are still doing what they do ‚Äî letting them. Only, when the details are right before you, the sausage making process is pretty ugly, and the NYT's report is full of them. From the NYT: One bill that sailed through the House Financial Services Committee this month ‚Äî over the objections of the Treasury Department ‚Äî was essentially Citigroup‚Äôs, according to e-mails reviewed by The New York Times. The bill would exempt broad swathes of trades from new regulation. In a sign of Wall Street‚Äôs resurgent influence in Washington, Citigroup‚Äôs recommendations were reflected in more than 70 lines of the House committee‚Äôs 85-line bill. Two crucial paragraphs, prepared by Citigroup in conjunction with other Wall Street banks, were copied nearly word for word. (Lawmakers changed two words to make them plural.) Most of this story centers around the House Financial Committee, headed by Jeb Hensarling (R-TX). It's become a target for lobbyists for obvious reasons, and freshman politicians use it as a platform for raising money. And so the story goes. Other highlights include: Demoracts and Republicans are both guilty of this, if not in equal measure, according to the report. For example, New York Democrat Joe Crowley lead a group of Congressman to NYC to meet bank heads recently ‚Äî they had audiences with Jamie Dimon and Lloyd Blankfein. And as usual, Dimon got to deliver one of his classic speeches (NYT): ‚ÄúAmerica has the widest, deepest and most transparent capital markets in the world,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúWashington has been dealt a good hand.‚Äù They didn't have to go to New York City to hear that, Dimon says it all the time. For the full piece head to the NYT&gt;
Kevin AboschMatt MullenwegTiger Global has invested $50 million in web developer company Automattic, the parent company of WordPress.com.¬† From Automattic's president/founder Matt Mullenweg: Anyway, wanted to get in front of the news that will inevitably come out in the next week or two (hi¬†Kara!): there has been a large secondary transaction in Automattic stock, about $50M worth. ‚ÄúSecondary‚Äù means that it‚Äôs existing stockholders, like the earliest investors or employees, selling stock to another investor versus money going into the company (‚Äúprimary‚Äù). It was led by Lee Fixel at Tiger Global, one of the behind-the-scenes quiet geniuses that has previously invested in SurveyMonkey, Facebook, LinkedIn, Palantir, Square, Warby Parker‚Ä¶ Automattic is healthy, generating cash, and already growing as fast as it can so there‚Äôs no need for the company to raise money directly ‚Äî we‚Äôre not capital constrained. The minority of stockholders that elected to participate are holding on to the vast majority of their shares. We‚Äôre building an independent company that‚Äôs going to be a growing part of the fabric of the web for many years to come, so allowing early investors to lock in some returns releases any short-term pressure there might be on the company for a liquidity event and allows us to focus fully on the long road ahead. This news comes the same week that Yahoo! announced it's buying Tumblr for $1.1 billion. Also, WordPress is celebrating its 10th birthday next week. ¬†
Smoking takes¬†10 years off your life¬†- but is this a sufficient reason to give up smoking? Why is a long life a better life? The¬†United Nations Human Development¬†Index uses life expectancy as a measure of life quality because: a long life is valuable in itself and... various indirect benefits (such as adequate nutrition and good health) are closely associated with higher life expectancy¬† That longevity is a proxy for the things that make life enjoyable is a reasonable argument, especially in the context that the UNDP is making it. The elimination of polio, for example, not only increased life expectancy, but also improved life quality, by preventing people from experiencing years of disability. But to the extent that smoking shortens life by taking low quality years off at the end, is that such a bad thing? And the statement that "a long life is valuable in itself" takes us back to the original question: why? John Broome's bookWeighing Livestakes on some hard questions about longevity. Increasing one person's life has costs, either because it takes up resources that could have been used to improve another person's life, or because it decreases that person's life quality. Trade-offs have to be made. Broome provides a way of thinking about those choices that an economist can understand: Frances Wooley/Worthwhile Canadian InitiativeFrom "Weighing Lives" by John Broome This diagram shows the evolution of well-being over time for a person with a terminal disease. Palliative care provides a higher quality of life for a shorter time; aggressive treatment extends life, but at the cost of life quality. Contemplating the problem, one can imagine that sometimes one might choose palliative care, and sometimes one might choose aggressive treatment, depending upon the precise well-being - longevity trade-off.¬† It's a bit like economics. Once the problem is expressed in a diagrammatic form, the answer is fairly straightforward - it's drawing the diagram in the first place that's the challenge. Also, as in economics, the predictions of the model depend critically upon the underlying assumptions - in this case, the relative value given to longevity versus life quality. I didn't read Broome's book carefully, but I suspect he's too smart to even try to address that question. What I like about Broome's framework is that it shows that trade-offs must be made, and it provides a way for planning, rational people to think about choices. Yet when life and death decisions have to be made, planning goes out the window. The primitive part of our brain, which has been shaped by millennia¬†of fighting for survival, takes over, and votes to hang on at all costs. Death, yes - but not yet. So how can we think about longevity? How can we abstract from the immediacies of life and death, and discover what our planning selves would want? I've been thinking about this question lately, because my dog has just reached the grand old age of 14. As his puppyhood friends gradually disappear, and he himself increasingly suffers from¬†bladder stones,¬†cataracts, arthritis, deafness, flatulence, toothlessness, and (I suspect, though it's hard to tell) doggy dementia, I find myself wondering: is longevity all it's cracked up to be?¬† When a person selects a pet, she reveals her preferences for life expectancy. Using Broome's framework, one can compare the life quality of different breeds. In this case, I've compared a standard poodle, which has an average life expectancy, and a miniature poodle, which has an exceptionally long life expectancy. I've drawn a diagram showing two dogs with identical patterns of life-quality over time, but with one life compressed, and the other extended. Frances Wooley/Worthwhile Canadian InitiativeWell-being of two hypothetical poodles over time. I don't think it's obvious that, in the diagram above, the miniature poodle's life is any objective sense better. Both dogs experience identical¬†average¬†life quality, it's just that one, by virtue of its genetic make-up, experiences that life quality over a longer period of time. Indeed, when a person selects a pet, life expectancy is one of the last things considered (see, for example,¬†this¬†pet selection guide, or¬†this one¬†or¬†this one). Instead, "experts" recommend choosing a pet who will be a good match for his or her owner in terms of activity level, sociability, and so on. Good health matters - sensible owners avoid breeds prone to health problems. But not life expectancy per se. Actions speak louder than words, and reveal preferences more clearly. People who choose shorter-lived pets reveal that longevityper sedoes not matter much. Frances Wooley/Worthwhile Canadian InitiativeWith my dog, I try to let him live his life to his full potential - but the fact that his maximum possible life span is 17 or 20 years, and not 10 years or 40 years, is of little consequence. In the same way, a good human life is one that is lived to its full potential. But, as a practical matter, what does that mean?  Addendum: some people have argued in the comments that smoking leads to a reduction in average life quality, as well as life length. On average Canadian smokers are less satisfied with life than non-smokers - around 40 percent of non-smokers report being very satisfied with life, as compared to around 30 percent of smokers. There are two big caveats to this graph however. First, it excludes institutional residents, including people in long-term care facilities - that is, the people who are experiencing low-quality late-life years. Second, it's not clear that smoking causes lower life satisfaction - people may smoke because they're unhappy, rather than the other way around. Frances Wooley/Worthwhile Canadian Initiative
Back in 2011 and 2012, natural gas was rapidly rising as a source of electricity in the U.S., displacing coal.† In April 2012, the two sources were tied, each supply 32% of the America's energy. But environmentalists will be disappointed to hear that coal is now back to providing 40% of the nation's electricity output, more than all other power sources. According to the EIA, the U.S. tapped 131,000 megawatt hours worth of coal in March, compared with just 84,000 for natgas.† Here's the chart: EIA The reason: natural gas prices have now climbed back to well above $4, after falling to as low as $2 a year ago. EIA: Heading into the 2013 spring shoulder season (between winter and summer), when demand for electricity typically falls, higher prices for natural gas reduced the fuel's share of total generation below the record levels of last April. The good news is that coal still comprises far fewer megawatt hours than it ever has ó since 2009 annual coal generation has fallen well below its historical 2 million megawatt hour norm.
APThe automatic, across-the-board spending cuts that began on March 1 are hurting more than ever, according to a new Washington Post/ABC News poll. The poll finds that nearly four in 10 Americans say the cuts of the sequester have had a negative effect on them personally, which is up substantially from just 25 percent two months ago.¬† Among that group, self-identified Republicans say they have been most affected. An astounding 46 percent of Republicans have felt the effects of the sequester, compared with just 32 percent of Democrats. Perhaps unsurprisingly, just 39 percent of Republicans support the cuts, compared with 54 percent who oppose them. That's a significant change from a March WaPo/ABC poll, which found that only 27 percent of Republicans said they had been affected by the cuts. Among Republicans, the number of respondents who "strongly disapprove" of the cuts has climbed 8 percentage points in the past two months. Here's a look at the Republican difference in chart form: Brett LoGiurato/Business Insider (Data: ABC/Washington Post) Overall, only 35 percent of Americans approve of the cuts, compared with 56 percent who disapprove, making disapproval of the cuts an issue that goes across party lines. Congress hasn't felt any push to resolve the cuts since late April, when it quickly resolved a series of flight delays¬†that were piling up across U.S. airports because of the cuts. But if personal displeasure with the cuts continues to fester, it could once again force Congress to explore alternative solutions.
REUTERS / Jessica RinaldiJeffrey GundlachBond god Jeffrey Gundlach, who runs DoubleLine Capital, told TheStreet.com's Chris Ciaccia that he now owns Apple in his portfolio.† Gundlach famously shorted Apple's stock last year and called it going to $425 a share on CNBC when it was trading around the $560 level in November. † From TheStreet:† "We bought it at $405 the first time, and I think our average cost is below $425. I said Apple would go†below $425. I wasn't committed to buying it, but I think Apple is an interesting play," Gundlach said during the interview. Gundlach told TheStreet that the tech giant's stock is "sorta cheap" and that he "sorta" likes Apple. †
"Central bankers claim that they aren‚Äôt starting a currency war," wrote market expert Ed Yardeni.¬† "They deny that their policies are aimed at the competitive devaluation of their currencies. Let‚Äôs call it competitive ultra-easing." The Federal Reserve has famously been keeping rates low since the financial crisis.¬† In recent months, the Bank of Japan has made stunning calls to devalue its own currency. In recent weeks, many of the world's other central banks have been cutting rates to keep up. Here's a map of recent cuts from Deutsche Bank's recent House View report. Deutsche Bank
flickr / Doug WertmanInvestors poured a massive $7.5 billion into equity funds this week. That brings the total expansion in assets under management at these funds to $178 billion over the past 26 weeks. Bond funds had a big week too, increasing assets under management by $4.5 billion. Commodity funds suffered $2.1 billion of outflows, while money-market funds took in $16 billion. Below is a complete breakdown of the flows for the week ended May 22, via BofA Merrill Lynch strategist Michael Hartnett: Flows by Asset Class  Equities: $7.5bn inflows ($5.7bn via ETFs and $1.8bn into LO) Bonds: $4.5bn inflows (22 straight weeks) Precious metals: $1.8bn outflows (15 straight weeks = longest outflow streak on record)  MMF: $16bn inflows (but $125bn outflows YTD) Flows by Equity Region  $3.0bn into Japan equity funds (following record inflows last week) $0.4bn outflows from Europe and tiny $10mn outflows from EM  $4.1bn inflows to US (all via ETF's)  By sector, real estate ($1.1bn), financials ($0.5bn) and consumer sectors ($0.7bn) see the biggest inflows  Flows by Fixed Income Sector  $2.5bn into IG bonds (15 straight weeks) and $1.1bn inflows to HY bonds 50 straight weeks of EM debt inflows ($0.9bn) 48 straight weeks of floating-rate debt inflows ($1.2bn)  $1.0bn redemptions from Govt/tsy funds (largest in 19 weeks) and 6 straight weeks out of TIPS "Euphoric inflows to Japanese equity funds last week was, with hindsight, a big warning sign for Nikkei short-term," says Hartnett.
By Ghostboy on flickrI was writing an email to a fellow monkey who is about to start as a banking analyst in the summer. It's been a little over 5 yrs now since I was a wee young first-year analyst in restructuring for one of the¬†Moelis/Houlihan/Evercore¬†type firms (I call them the firms where most people will still say "What?" and sort of nod their heads when you tell them where you work - thanks for validating my 80 hour work week - anyways moving on). I really like mentoring and sharing knowledge for future generations - a lot of people have helped me along the way, and still are, and I really like WSO in general - there are giant gold nuggets all over this site from which I have benefited so I thought it's high time to throw one back in the pit. Here's what I wish I knew as a first year analyst: 1) Your performance from day 1 matters. So, prepare as much as you can beforehand. Ask (politely) if your future colleagues can send you some pitches/other helpful materials and start working on your excel, formatting, attention to detail. Keep your Outlook box tidy and have a folder for every single deal - learn to back up your email box. Have a good system for knowing where each file is. Always¬†carry¬†a notebook and your HP12C, and learn to use that little calculator really really well. That thing can run a full¬†DCF¬†in seconds if you know what you are doing. Especially if you work in debt, know how to use the financial functions (I, PMT, PV, FV, n). 2) For your first 3 months you will be a burden - just try to be a small burden. Don't spin your wheels, ever - Associates hate when their analyst is sitting there fumbling and stymied. Don't ask questions that you haven't at least tried to think through yourself - but once you've thought them through, don't be afraid to ask. Write down everything so you remember what you learned and don't have to ask again. Get close with a good Associate/Sr. Analyst - tell them you just really want to do well and look to them for areas to improve BEFORE your midyear/full year reviews. Your first midyear review will likely be pretty pointless, unless you've done something really bad, but keep the year-end review in mind and realize people's memories are much shorter than you think, so a good 3 months leading into the review can make up for quite a bit of mediocre performance. Bankers love to see when people have really "stepped it up" - it validates that their criticism did something and that you aren't afraid to improve and take advice well. 3) If you want to someday go to the buyside, think of that from day 1 as well. Start talking now with people who are where you want to be in 2-5 years time. Figure out where past analysts have gone and how. You can jump after 1 year, 2 yrs, or later - but realize it might get tougher later on. You will need to teach yourself how to model quick and dirty - prepping for¬†HF/PE buyside interviews is serious, serious business. I could write a whole article just on that process. 4) Be thinking about whether you want to go to grad school, and where, and what experiences will help that cause. Keep detailed records of the things you do - because you're about to do so many things, that you will inevitably forget some of the best ones. 2 yrs at a non-incredibly-amazing firm is not likely to get you into HSW, even with a good¬†GMAT¬†- a better track is to target 4-6 years of work experience and have a non-banking role in between - PE, work for a startup, go do microfinance in Tunisia, whatever you like really - just something to distinguish you from all the other bankers - HSW will have plenty of¬†BB¬†IBD¬†kids from target schools to fill their class. If you know you want to go for an MBA eventually, think about taking the¬†GMAT¬†before you are working 80 hours a week. I think the¬†GMAT¬†takes about 2 months of good work for most really to maximize your score (this is another good WIWIK possibility). 5) Before you present important work, ALWAYS print it - errors stick out like sore thumbs on paper and are much easier to find and correct. Take the 5 minutes and print the product before you put it on your boss' desk. Set the tone early that you are simply not a person who makes spelling or formatting errors. 6) On that note, set the print area right away and always run a spell check (yes,¬†Excel¬†has spell check too!) 7) Master your macros - if you have time or inclination before starting, maybe even take some¬†ExcelVBA classes online or something - if you are really good with¬†Excel¬†you will be a prized asset. Ask your future colleagues if there is a particular package they use and if they can send it, otherwise maybe use the¬†WSP¬†pack or any macro pack you can find. Remove your F1 key because it will only get in the way. People generally say don't touch your mouse - I mostly agree for¬†Excel, but there are still the few odd things that are quicker with a mouse sometimes.¬†Excel¬†is another potential WIWIK topic. 8) Headhunters want: smart people, who can hold a good conversation, humble, good team players, sharp modeling, who can THINK LIKE INVESTORS - always be thinking like an investor - if you want to do PE/HF¬†later on, this might be your single most important point. Many banking analysts go into PE/HF¬†interviews and have never thought like an investor - they have no conviction in their ideas and their investment theses have little basis. Many¬†BB¬†kids think they are simply entitled to a¬†HF/PE job. Don't be one of those. Do your work. And be a good person. Everyone will have decent technical skills, but if you can strike your headhunter as also being just a super nice and hardworking person, that counts big time. 9) If you want to practice for HFs, pick any public company that doesn't have nightmare financial statements (i.e. don't pick a¬†FIG¬†unless that's your thing), download the latest K and Q, and give yourself 2 hours to make a working 3 statement model with a¬†DCF¬†and a quick¬†LBO¬†analysis. You should be able to get the 3 statement model with 5 yr projections and a balancing¬†balance sheet¬†in 1 hour or less, then do the¬†DCF¬†and¬†LBO¬†in the next half hour, and leave a half hour to check your work. 9b) Be a good person. Don't be a finance 'd**k.' Yes you work in investment banking and probably make good money doing it. No that doesn't automatically make you cool. You can be hugely successful and still be a nice guy and down to earth. Take note of the associates and VPs that you really like to work for, and aspire to someday be a person that you yourself would like to work for. Finance is full of jerks and egos - that makes people who are down to earth and really genuinely nice an asset. Find a style that works for you and is true to who you are - you'll have to be firm sometimes, but keep that blade sharp. 10) Adhere to the logic that you can't learn if you aren't listening, and you can't listen if you are talking. Be a good listener. Some bankers and even some analysts are so garrulous that they miss key points, and their words just lose weight over time - they're so eager to say what they know that they just blurt out whatever they know on a subject. You want it so when you speak, people know you have listened, and you're saying something of value. Keep your cards close. Read the rest of the post at Wall Street Oasis &gt;
Briefly, the Dow jumped 155 points on release of Bernankeís statement that eased market fears by stating that premature tightening of monetary policy would be undesirable.† So far, so good.† Shortly thereafter, however, in answer to a question by Committee Chairman Brady asking when QE could be expected to taper off, Bernanke stated ìWe could, in the next few meetingsÖ.take a step down in our pace of purchases.î The market immediately turned around and started downward.† Within a short time the Dow was down 122 points from the previous dayís close, a total swing of 277 points. A few hours later the Fedís minutes of the last board meeting was released and re-emphasized the fear by stating that ìA number of participants expressed willingness to adjust the flow of purchases downward as early as the June meeting.î† The result was that the market ended up recording a so-called ìkey reversal dayî, meaning a day in which the market makes a high that is significantly higher than the previous dayís high, only to close at point substantially below the previous dayís low.† This is usually a sign of an important trend reversal, a signal further emphasized by the fact that Wednesdayís highs and lows exceeded the highs and lows of each of the prior three days.† The 7.3% decline of the Japanese market the following night was a separate event.† Despite knowing about the monetary events in the U.S., the Japanese market opened higher, only to be shocked by the release of Chinaís Purchasing Managers Index, which came in at a recessionary 49.6, abruptly ending a powerful run that began with the Japanese central bankís announcement of a massive easing program.† The Chinese data also helped extend the downtrend in industrial commodities that are so important to many of the worldís economies. We regard the action of the U.S. market as a ìshot across the bowî that indicates a significant change in the trend of the market rather than a change in Fed policy† The Fed did not change policy, but was basically restating its prior stance.† Strategists and economists get paid to parse all the Fedís words to pick up any minor change and put it under a magnifying glass where it seems much larger than it actually is.† In the name of transparency, they also expect the Fed to tell exactly what it is going to do and when.† But the fact is that the Fed doesnít know what itís going to do at any future point. No matter what words the Fed uses, they always follow and react to the data.† In our view it is best to go back to Bernankeís written statement indicating the undesirability of a premature tightening of monetary policy.† That is what he and his allies on the committee believe, and it is they who are the majority.† They may well consider a reversal of the current policy at future meetings, as Bernanke stated, but that is dependent on their confidence that the economy has indeed turned around and can sustain growth on its own without further monetary help. In our view, however, the economy is showing distinct signs of softening as we discussed in our most recent comments, and the Fed may have to continue its QE program at current levels for a longer time than many think.† The irony is that the pending market downturn may be a result of a weakening economy and declining earnings estimates rather than the cessation of QE.†
Flickr/soundmanThe month of May started with a wave of economic data that suggested the U.S. was heading for an economic slow down, or "soft patch," in Q2. However, this week was met with a string of better-than-expected data. Just this morning, we learned that durable goods orders jumped 3.3% in May, crushing expectations for 1.5%. Non-defense capital goods orders excluding aircraft, which is a key measure of business investment, jumped by 1.2%, which was much stronger than the expectation for a modest 0.5% gain. Gennadiy Goldberg of TD Securities is encouraged by this. "Stronger core durable goods orders suggest that the order pipeline that will drive future investment and inventory growth continues to improve, helping to fuel the transition out of the current soft patch," wrote Goldberg. "The details of the report offer room for encouragement, with all major sub-components showing monthly gains following the March pullback. Machinery orders rose 1.9% in April, bucking a 2 month declining trend as orders for computers and electronics also rose at a very strong 3.6% monthly rate. The inventory/shipments ratio rose to 1.66 from 1.65 in March, though the rise came as a function of weaker shipments."
CAMBRIDGE ñ There is no magic Keynesian bullet for the eurozoneís woes. But the spectacularly muddle-headed argument nowadays that too much austerity is killing Europe is not surprising. Commentators are consumed by politics, flailing away at any available target, while the ìanti-austerityî masses apparently believe that there are easy cyclical solutions to tough structural problems. The eurozoneís difficulties, I have long argued, stem from European financial and monetary integration having gotten too far ahead of actual political, fiscal, and banking union. This is not a problem with which Keynes was familiar, much less one that he sought to address. Above all, any realistic strategy for dealing with the eurozone crisis must involve massive write-downs (forgiveness) of peripheral countriesí debt. These countriesí massive combined bank and government debt ñ the distinction everywhere in Europe has become blurred ñ makes rapid sustained growth a dream. This is hardly the first time I have stressed the need for wholesale debt write-downs. Two years ago, in a commentary called†ìThe Euroís Pig-Headed Masters,î†I wrote that ìEurope is in constitutional crisis. No one seems to have the power to impose a sensible resolution of its peripheral countriesí debt crisis. Instead of restructuring the manifestly unsustainable debt burdens of Portugal, Ireland, and Greece (the PIGs), politicians and policymakers are pushing for ever-larger bailout packages with ever-less realistic austerity conditions.î My sometime co-author Carmen Reinhart makes the same point, perhaps even more clearly. In a May 2010†Washington Post†editorial (co-authored with Vincent Reinhart), she described†ìFive Myths About the European Debt Crisisî†ñ among them, ìMyth #3: Fiscal austerity will solve Europeís debt woes.î We have repeated the mantra dozens of times in various settings, as any fair observer would confirm. In a debt restructuring, the northern eurozone countries (including France) will see hundreds of billions of euros go up in smoke. Northern taxpayers will be forced to inject massive amounts of capital into banks, even if the authorities impose significant losses on banksí large and wholesale creditors, as well they should. These hundreds of billions of euros are already lost, and the game of pretending otherwise cannot continue indefinitely. A gentler way to achieve some modest reduction in public and private debt burdens would be to commit to a period of sustained but moderate inflation, as I recommended in December 2008 in a commentary entitled†ìInflation is Now the Lesser Evil.î†Sustained moderate inflation would help to bring down the real value of real estate more quickly, and potentially make it easier for German wages to rise faster than those in peripheral countries. It would have been a great idea four and a half years ago. It remains a good idea today. What else needs to happen? The other steps involve economic restructuring at the national level and political integration of the eurozone. In another commentary,†ìA Centerless Euro Cannot Hold,î†I concluded that ìwithout further profound political and economic integration ñ which may not end up including all current eurozone members ñ the euro may not make it even to the end of this decade.î Here, all eyes may be on Germany, but today it is really France that will play the central role in deciding the euroís fate. Germany cannot carry the euro on its shoulders alone indefinitely. France needs to become a second anchor of growth and stability. Temporary Keynesian demand measures may help to sustain short-run internal growth, but they will not solve Franceís long-run competitiveness problems. At the same time, France and Germany must both come to terms with an approach that leads to far greater political union within a couple of decades. Otherwise, the coming banking union and fiscal transfers will lack the necessary political legitimacy. As my colleague†Jeffrey Frankel†has remarked, for more than 20 years, Germanyís elites have insisted that the eurozone will not be a transfer union. But, in the end, ordinary Germans have been proved right, and the elites have been proved wrong. Indeed, if the eurozone is to survive, the northern countries will have to continue to help the periphery with new loans until access to private markets is restored. So, given that Germany will be picking up many more bills (regardless of whether the eurozone survives), how can it best use the strength of its balance sheet to alleviate Europeís growth problems? Certainly, Germany must continue to acquiesce in an ever-larger role for the European Central Bank, despite the obvious implicit fiscal risks. There is no safe path forward. There are a number or schemes floating around for leveraging Germanyís lower borrowing costs to help its partner countries, beyond simply expanding the ECBís balance sheet. For meaningful burden-sharing to work, however, eurozone leaders must stop dreaming that the single currency can survive another 20 or 30 years without much greater political union. Debt write-downs and guarantees will inevitably bloat Germanyís government debt, as the authorities are forced to bail out German banks (and probably some neighboring countriesí banks). But the sooner the underlying reality is made transparent and becomes widely recognized, the lower the long-run cost will be. To my mind, using Germanyís balance sheet to help its neighbors directly is far more likely to work than is the presumed ìtrickle-downî effect of a German-led fiscal expansion. This, unfortunately, is what has been lost in the debate about Europe of late: However loud and aggressive the anti-austerity movement becomes, there still will be no simple Keynesian cure for the single currencyís debt and growth woes.
via FlightawareA bunch of hedge funders are already heading out to the Hamptons, but don't expect them to all drive there or take public transportation. ¬† If you check out the East Hampton airport (KHTO) on FlightAware.com, there's been an uptick in flight traffic today. We've monitoring this situation all week and have noticed flights departing from Westchester and Danbury landing at KHTO.¬† Prolific tweeter/Hamptons native/handyman Joe Schwenk (a.k.a. @hamptonsborn) has also been keeping people up-to-date with the air traffic. ¬† ¬† ¬† For example,¬†FAA records show that one of the helicopters has the address of GTI Capital at 150 East 58th Street (24th floor).¬† And this fixed-wing single engine, which says it's owned by Flying Phox LLC has the same address as Risk &amp; Insurance Magazine.¬†¬† You can see all the action on FlightAware. ¬†Here's a screenshot (Click to enlarge):¬† via Flightaware
boeingmedia.comUPDATE:¬†Durable goods orders data are out. Total orders expanded 3.3% in April after plunging a revised-up 5.9% in March. Economists predicted a smaller, 1.5% rise. Orders excluding transportation equipment rose 1.3% after contracting a revised down 1.7% in March. Economists predicted only a 0.5% gain. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft and parts (a.k.a. "core capex") rose 1.3% after expanding 0.9% in March. There, economists were only expecting a 0.5% gain. Click here for the full release &gt;
Even Scrooge would be appalled.Over the past two decades, corporate America has become obsessed with "shareholder value." This narrow measure of company performance, which evolved into a religion in the 1990s, holds that what's good for a company's stock price is also what's good for the company, the company's customers and employees, and the economy. So, today, the performance of companies and CEOs are judged primarily by their stock prices. Capitalizing on this theme, Bloomberg has put together†a list of CEO "underachievers"--big company CEOs whose stocks have done the worst relative to the broader market since the beginning of each CEO's tenure. Meg Whitman of Hewlett-Packard sits atop the list, with HP's stock having underperformed by a startling 30 percentage points since she took the job. James Gorman of Morgan Stanley and Brian Moynihan of Bank of America hold the 5th and 6th slots, with both banks having struggled in the past couple of years. And the staggeringly well-compensated CEO of Occidental Petroleum, Stephen Chazen, owns a place in the top 10. Although some CEOs certainly deserve a place on an "underachiever" list (Chazen jumps to mind), the problem with judging CEOs this way is that it encourages CEOs to make decisions that might pump up stock prices in the near term but actually hurt them over the long-term. It also encourages companies to treat "shareholder value" as a much higher priority than the other kinds of value that great companies create: Value for customers, value for employees, and value for society. At most companies, for example, firing employees and cutting research and development expenses will increase this year's earnings per share--something that Wall Street generally applauds. But firing employees and cutting research and development spending this year may also depress growth two or three years from now, when the products that this extra investment might have produced would finally have hit the market. Thus, in the interests of pleasing impatient short-term shareholders, the companies might be shortchanging their long term performance--not to mention the rest of us. One of the problems with the U.S. economy, in fact, is that American corporations have become so obsessed with near-term profit growth that they're achieving it by underinvesting in the future.† FRED/Business InsiderCorporate profit margins as a percent of the economy have now hit the highest level in history.American corporations are currently posting†the highest profit margins in history, which they have achieved primarily through cost-cutting and efficiency. At the same time, however, these corporations are paying†the lowest wages in history†and making capital investments at a strikingly low rate. (See chart below). †The record-high profit margins that this cost-cutting and low investment have produced have helped drive the stock market to a record high, but they are also arguably hurting America's long-term economic growth (and stock performance). Business Insider, St. Louis FedAmerican companies are now paying the lowest wages in history. No wonder consumers are broke.For companies in the midst of an implosion, meanwhile, as Hewlett-Packard is, judging a CEO by the company's near-term stock performance seems even sillier. HP's business was collapsing when Meg Whitman took over as CEO. The business is still collapsing, but the company has also begun to set appropriate expectations and work its way out of trouble. In HP's case, a successful turnaround will take several years. So to judge Whitman's performance based on the stock price thus far seems myopic at best. A company's relative share price over the long term--5 to 10 years or more--is certainly one of the measures with which a CEO's performance can be judged, especially if the stock price is viewed in conjunction with other measures of corporate value creation. But obsessing about near-term stock performance at the expense of customers, employees, and long-term investment is short-term thinking.
The Nikkei truly had a wild day on Friday. First it surged 3%. Then later in the day it fell. Then in the final hour of the day at scratched out a small gain. But Nikkei futures continue to trade, and things have gotten worse. As you can see, markets are close to last night's lows. FinViz For more on what's happening today, see 10 things you need to know before the opening bell ---&gt;
APGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Steve Kovach/Business InsiderLOS ANGELES (AP) ó Internet radio company Pandora Media Inc. reported higher-than-expected revenue in the latest quarter, with losses in line with analysts' forecasts, as the number of subscribers who pay for ad-free listening more than doubled to exceed 2.5 million. Pandora predicted that it may break even in the current quarter after adjusting for one-time costs, and it predicted annual earnings and revenue that exceeded Wall Street forecasts. Its stock jumped in after-hours trading. The upbeat results reported Thursday are a positive sign for the Internet startup as competition in digital music gets tougher. Google Inc. launched a paid subscription plan called All Access last week, and Apple Inc. is expected to unveil a free radio streaming plan later this year. Still, Pandora is the leading Internet radio provider. CEO Joe Kennedy said the competition is not a concern. "I don't think it pays to focus on this competitor or that competitor," Kennedy said in an interview. "What we can control is our continued development of what we believe is the best personalized radio service in the world." The net loss in the three months ending April 30 grew to $28.6 million, or 16 cents per share, from a loss of $20.2 million, or 12 cents per share, a year ago. Excluding items such as stock-based compensation costs, the loss came to 10 cents per share, matching the forecast of analysts polled by FactSet. Revenue rose 55 percent to $126 million, above the $124 million that analysts were looking for. Pandora shares jumped 8.5 percent to $18.61 after the results came out, their highest price since July 2011, a month after it debuted on public stock markets at $16. Total listener hours grew 35 percent to 4.18 billion in the quarter, and revenue from mobile devices nearly doubled to $83.9 million, outstripping the growth in mobile listening hours, which rose 47 percent. Revenue per thousand listener hours on mobile devices grew to $25.31 in the quarter, up from $18.86 a year ago. Total revenue per thousand listener hours including computers hit $30.01, up from $26.09 a year ago. Analysts focus on the figure, known as RPM, because song royalty costs ó Pandora's biggest expense ó are around $20. Investors look for the company to raise revenue above the royalty cost figure as a means of turning to profitability. Kennedy said the company's decision in February to cap free listening on mobile devices to 40 hours per month helped in two ways: It restrained growing royalty costs caused by its heaviest listeners, and it converted more of them into paying customers. The ad-free Pandora One subscription plan costs $4 a month or $36 a year. "The mobile listening limit worked as intended, helping us control costs," he said. "We are also pleased with the advertising side as well." Kennedy, who has led the company as chairman and CEO since July 2004, said in March that he would step down once a successor is found. He said Thursday that there was no timeline for the transition, and didn't expect to give an update until a successor was announced. The company, which is based in Oakland, Calif., said it expected revenue of $155 million to $160 million in the second quarter, which ends in July. That's above the $150 million expected. It also forecast second-quarter adjusted earnings ranging from a loss of 2 cents per share to a gain of a penny per share. Analysts were looking for a penny gain. On an annual basis, Pandora expects revenue of $615 million to $635 million, with the midpoint above the $618 million predicted by analysts. It forecast annual earnings ranging from a loss of 2 cents to a gain of 8 cents per share, with the midpoint also above the 2 cents per share profit that analysts had been forecasting. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
The big news today is that a bridge in Washington collapsed, throwing cars into the water. Amazingly, nobody died. This may revive debate about the need to spend more on infrastructure, which would have multiple positive effects. Nothing is likely to happen, however. That being said, here's a chart of public construction spending (TLPBLCONS) as percentage of GDP. You can see, public construction spending is lower than its been in over 20 years. FRED
There have been a broad number of economists and apologists for the current policy approach being undertaken in Japan. ¬†Now, I don‚Äôt entirely disagree with Abenomics. ¬†In fact, there are components of it that I think are helpful. ¬†But what I find particularly misguided is how the stock market is being targeted quite explicitly via the portfolio rebalancing effect. ¬†It‚Äôs a version of what the Fed is doing in the USA though the Fed doesn‚Äôt buy ETFs as the BOJ does. ¬†And as I‚Äôve explained before, the power in central banking is not in the SAYING, but in the DOING. ¬†Japan‚Äôs officials have not only said that they want equity prices higher, but they‚Äôre buying them as well. ¬†This has given Japanese market participants a false sense of confidence. And this is where some economists seem to get confused on the cause and effect. ¬†For instance, when trying to pinpoint the cause of last nights 7% collapse in the Nikkei Dr. Krugman highlights three potential causes: ‚Äú1. Fears about weak Japanese and Asian growth. 2. Fears about Japanese debt‚Äì the bond vigilantes have finally arrived. 3. Fears about the resolution of the Bank of Japan, its willingness to persist in very expansionary monetary policy for a long time.‚Äù One of those might have been a trigger, but the cause of the decline is ultimately the result of the market imbalances that have grown over the course of the last 6 months. ¬†For instance, what caused the housing bust in 2006/7? ¬† Who knows? ¬†But the cause of the boom was quite obviously an irrational supply and demand for housing backed by debt accumulation/issuance that was unsustainable. ¬†The environment in the Nikkei is not all that different. ¬†And when a central bank commits to be ‚Äúcredibly irresponsible‚Äù it‚Äôs not unusual for market participants to take them at their word. ¬†And the commitment to support equity prices gives traders a false sense of confidence which can then lead to a sort of ponzi environment which leads to a huge boom. By committing to be ‚Äúcredibly irresponsible‚Äù the central bank can actually contribute to the boom which then creates the imbalance that results in the bust. ¬†Last nights collapse in the Nikkei wasn‚Äôt caused by one of the three aforementioned fears. ¬†It was caused by the imbalance that the BOJ has been a direct contributor to. ¬†Now, hopefully, this isn‚Äôt the beginning of a much bigger slide, but if history is any guide then it‚Äôs likely that the rollercoaster ride will continue for years to come. ¬†Personally, I find this concept of committing to be irresponsible a highly irresponsible form of policy that ultimately leads to increasingly risky environments and exacerbated boom periods that lead to exacerbated busts.
There's an interesting survey from Gallup, which finds that fewer and fewer Americans refer to themselves as economic conservatives. Forty-one percent of Americans now characterize their economic views as "conservative," or "very conservative," the lowest since President Barack Obama took office in 2009 and on par with where views were in May 2008. This year's downtick in the percentage of Americans identifying as economically conservative has been accompanied by an uptick in the percentage identifying as economically moderate -- now 37% of Americans, up from 32% last year. Gallup Of course, the "conservative" identification on economic issues remains higher than any other choice. An economic liberalism remains very low. But it's not surprising that as the economy improves, and deficits shrink, people are identifying themselves more and more as moderates. The salience of topics like austerity just aren't that big when things seem to be going fine. And unlike in 2011, if the GOP tries to make the debt ceiling a big issue, they'll be much more out of step with the public than they were then then.
Earlier we mentioned that US futures were lower following an insane night in Japan. A quick heads up on that: things are at their lowest points of the morning. Even Nikkei futures have weakened since the actual Japanese close. Here's S&amp;P futures at their lows of the morning via FinViz. FinViz Today could be interesting. Because of the upcoming 3-day weekend, it's likely to be quiet and thin. But the recent bout of market volatility adds a touch of intrigue.
One of the big stories in global markets this year is the commodity decline. And this week we got clear evidence of Chinese slowing. These two closely-related stories have conspired to slam the Australian dollar, which is levered to both commodities and China. Since the beginning of April, it's been getting clobbered. (Via FinViz) FinViz Meanwhile, Aussie stocks also took it on the chin this week. From the Sydney Morning Herald: Australian shares reversed early gains to post another big sell-off as faltering banks and market volatility around the region hit investor sentiment. The benchmark S&amp;P/ASX200 index fell 76.5 points, or 1.5 per cent, to 4964.3, ending below 5000 points for the first time since April 22. The broader All Ords slumped 78.9 points, or 1.6 per cent, to 4983.5. The ASX shed 3.8 per cent over the week, its biggest weekly loss in 18 months. Today's drop wiped another $23 billion off the market's value, adding to yesterday's $30 billion drop. Australia has been famously resilient over the years, in part thanks to China's amazing growth.
TOKYO (Reuters) - This week's turbulence in Tokyo markets exposes a key risk of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's all-in strategy to revive Japan's economy - if investor confidence falters, the government and the Bank of Japan may be left with few options to turn the tide. On Friday, the Nikkei share averagehad another tumultuous session, traversing a 7.1 percent range between positive and negative territory before ending up 0.9 percent. The violent moves kept investors on edge after a 7.3-percent slide on Thursday, the sharpest drop for the Japanese stock market since the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. At the same time, the 10-year-bond yield, a key interest rate linked to home mortgages and business loans, has almost tripled from the 0.315 percent record low it plumbed in early April just after the central bank announced its plans for a massive increase in asset purchases. The wild market gyrations represent the first serious test for Abe, who has become a popular figure at home and on Wall Street for pro-growth policies featuring massive monetary easing, a big burst of government spending and a promised "growth strategy" centered on deregulation and trade liberalization. Another issue is the danger of the debilitating side-effects on asset markets stemming from the eventual roll-back of the U.S. Federal Reserve's massive stimulus - external risks that Tokyo could do little to overcome. In fact, Thursday's Nikkei rout was triggered by weak factory activity data in China, Japan's second-biggest export market, and on concerns sparked by Fed chief Ben Bernanke's suggestion that its bond-buying could be tapered this year. Most analysts and many overseas investors seemed ready to write off the Nikkei's tumble as an inevitable wave of profit-taking. The average has only slipped back to its levels as of early May and remains up nearly 70 percent since mid-November when it became clear Abe was likely to be become premier and implement his reflationary policies. "It's just a speed bump, in my view," said New York-based fund manager Audrey Kaplan at the $656 million Federated InterContinental Fund who has increased the Japan weighting in her fund to 20 percent from 15 percent at end-March. "The economic conditions in Japan are substantially better than they were a few months ago. That will support the market." But one challenge for Abe and his hand-picked BOJ chief, Haruhiko Kuroda, is that the positive wave of investor and consumer sentiment has run far ahead of sustainable gains in the world's third-largest economy in key measures such as income or corporate spending, analysts say. 'THE MARKET EFFECT' Consumption has picked up and exports have stabilized on Abenomics, especially the unprecedented easing by the BOJ, which has vowed to end 15 years of entrenched deflation and tepid growth by doubling the supply of money to generate 2 percent inflation over the coming two years. Supporters of Abenomics say it's the best chance Japan has of escaping the liquidity trap as changing perceptions will create a virtuous circle of consumption, bigger company profits, investment and higher wages that ultimately revitalizes growth. In his first response to the market turbulence, Kuroda, largely unruffled, told a seminar that bond market stability "is extremely desirable." The BOJ chief also struck an optimistic stance on the bank's policies. "What's most important is that the effect (of our monetary easing) creates a positive cycle of production, income and expenditure in the economy, leading to a gradual rise in prices. That's our hope and something that's achievable. We're in the process of this taking shape," Kuroda said. The yen is down more than 20 percent against the dollar and interest rates have remained relatively low, cheering investors and Japanese exporters. Japan's seven automakers, one of the main beneficiaries of the weaker yen, have outlined plans to increase capital spending by almost 15 percent this financial year on a global basis but those plans will take time to play out. In the meantime, keeping consumer, corporate and investor confidence is crucial. "Japan's economy is turning up because confidence is improving and households are spending even though their incomes aren't rising," said Koji Haji, chief economist at NLI Research Institute. "It's the market effect." Abe's cabinet members lined up after Thursday's market plunge to say they would press on with existing policies. "The government is steadily making progress with steps to revive Japan's economy," Economics Minister Akira Amari said on Friday. "I don't see any problems there." THIRD ARROW It's not clear what the government or BOJ could do if the markets decisively turn on Abe. He cannot easily ramp up government spending or postpone a planned sales-tax hike without endangering confidence that Japan has a plan to rein in its huge debt pile, which at well over double annual economic output is the biggest in the developed world. A Japanese government advisory panel is set to warn in the coming days that there is "no guarantee" that domestic investors will keep financing the debt, raising the prospect of a damaging spike in bond yields, according to a draft report. That raises the stakes for Abe's "third arrow", growth strategies expected to be announced in June and to include tax changes to encourage corporate investment, steps to encourage more women in the workforce and liberalization of the power and healthcare sectors. Indeed, analysts say a durable revival in the economy will depend to a large extent on Abe's third arrow, a thorny challenge that has fazed many of the prime minister's predecessors. "The important thing now given the high level of market expectations for Abenomics is how quickly the growth strategies that we will get in June can catch up," said Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley fixed income strategist Naomi Muguruma. "These steps won't have an immediate effect so it will be important for the government to keep policy steps coming in rapid succession that secure market confidence." Kuroda's BOJ also faces a challenge in keeping long-term interest rates in check. "He will have to do something," said Joseph Capurso, a strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. "Like what? Buy more JGBs and buy enough to convince the market yields can come down." The 10-year bond yield briefly rose on Thursday morning to 1.0 percent - a level flagged by many analysts as a worry line for the BOJ as it could begin to push up mortgage and other borrowing costs and threaten a nascent recovery. NLI's Haji said the BOJ could be forced to change the way it buys bonds. It could augment the auctions it runs now with financial institutions with a new procedure to buy bonds directly from the market, he said. Such a step could allow the central bank to respond more quickly and in a targeted way along the curve. "That may be one of the very few means left for the BOJ to stabilize markets," Haji said. "The only reason it's not doing this is because it would be tantamount to debt monetization. But it is already essentially bankrolling debt, so what's the difference?" (Additional reporting by Leika Kihara, Hiroyasu Hoshi, Hitoshi Ishida, Sophie Knight, Lisa Twaronite, Yuko Yoshikawa; Editing by Kevin Krolicki and Shri Navaratnam) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Obviously the new home sales report this morning was solid with sales above expectations and significant upward revisions to prior months. I try not to react too much to the month to month ups and downs; the key points right now are that sales are increasing and will probably continue to increase for some time.  Now that we have¬†four months of data for 2013, one way to look at the growth rate is to use the "not seasonally adjusted" (NSA) year-to-date data.  According to the Census Bureau, there¬†were¬†153 thousand new homes sold in 2013 through April, up about 26.4% from the¬†121 thousand sold¬†during the¬†same period in 2012. That is a very solid increase in sales, and this was the highest sales for these months since 2008. Note: For 2013, estimates are sales will increase to around 450 to 460 thousand, or¬†an increase of around¬†22% to 25% on an annual basis from the 369 thousand in 2012.¬†  Although there has been a large increase in the sales rate, sales are just above the lows for previous recessions. This suggests significant upside over the next few years.¬† Based on estimates of household formation and demographics, I expect sales to increase to 750 to 800 thousand over the next several years - substantially higher than the current sales rate. And an important point worth repeating: Housing is historically the best leading indicator for the economy, and this is one of the reasons I think The future's so bright, I gotta wear shades.CalculatedRiskAnd here is another update to the¬†"distressing gap" graph that I first started posting over four years ago to show the emerging gap caused by distressed sales.¬† Now I'm looking for the gap to start to close over the next few years. Click on graph for larger image. The "distressing gap" graph¬†shows existing home sales (left axis) and new home sales (right axis) through¬†April 2013. This graph starts in 1994, but the relationship has been fairly steady back to the '60s.  Following the housing bubble and bust, the "distressing gap" appeared mostly because of distressed sales. The flood of distressed sales kept existing home sales elevated, and depressed new home sales since builders weren't able to compete with the low prices of all the foreclosed properties. I don't expect much of an increase in existing home sales (distressed sales will slowly decline and be offset by more conventional sales). But I do expect this gap to continue to¬†close - mostly from an increase in new home sales. CalculatedRiskAnother way to look at this is a ratio of existing to new home sales. This ratio was fairly stable from 1994 through 2006, and then the flood of distressed sales kept the number of existing home sales elevated and depressed new home sales. (Note: This ratio was fairly stable back to the early '70s, but I only have annual data for the earlier years). In general the ratio has been trending down, and I expect this ratio to trend down over the next several years as the number of distressed sales declines and new home sales increase. Note: Existing home sales are counted when transactions are closed, and new home sales are counted when contracts are signed. So the timing of sales is different.
Courtesy of The Library of CongressAs traders in the US head into the long weekend, Citi's currency guru Steven Englander looks at the two big stories that really clubbed markets this week. Interestingly, although Japan crashed on Thursday, there was no real fundamentals-based story emanating from Japan. There was no one big data miss or comment from someone in charge, leading many folks to simply characterize the crash as being "technical" in nature, and an unsurprising event given the insane surge that the Nikkei has seen in recent months. Alas, Englander's two big stories for the week don't include Japan. Instead they concern the Fed and China. 1. Bernanke ambiguity - The most obvious was Bernanke‚Äôs testimony that was widely viewed as opening a more than expected door to a slowing in the pace of Fed balance sheet expansion. The key quote "If we see continued improvement and we have confidence that that's going to be sustained then we could in the next few meetings ... take a step down in our pace of purchases. If we do that it would not mean that we are automatically aiming towards a complete wind down. Rather we would be looking beyond that to see how the economy evolves and we could either raise or lower our pace of purchases going forward" leaves it ambiguous as to whether he is opening the door to a near term drop in the pace of QE or indicating that there is no timetable whatsoever on the pullback.¬† Subsequent newspaper reports raised the possibility the FOMC would be discussing tapering in the June meeting. Hawks have been advocating tapering or stopping QE for some meetings, and they are nowhere near having the votes to influence policy any time soon. It also seems that the Fed exit discussions are now focused on how not to avoid having the first taper a signal for an inexorable sequence of taperings. Nevertheless investors are so conditioned on a Fed that keeps on easing that any discussion of a deceleration is coming as a shock. So the first shock yesterday was the fear that the global liquidity deluge may one day come to an end.¬† 2. Definitive China weakness - The second driver was the drop in the China PMI¬† to 49.6, lower than the lowest forecast in the market. This continues a string of weak China data, and reinforces the view that the slowdown is more pronounced than expected. It is still not a collapse, but outcomes are clearly much to the weak side of what was anticipated. The spillover is both to neighboring Asian trading partners and commodity currencies. The second shock is a confirmation of fears that the China slowdown and downward pressures on commodity currencies are becoming well-embedded. Englander actually has a third big theme that's specifically related to currency, and that's the realization that commodity-based currencies (like the Aussie dollar) are overvalued, but again, these first two apply to all risk markets. He goes on to note how this week was "different" than recent weeks in that dips were not bought knee-jerk in markets (although US equities were remarkably resilient, especially yesterday). Meanwhile, Japan ended higher on Friday, but not before a crazy night ---&gt;
The big story in global markets is Japan. On Thursday, the Nikkei crashed 7%. Then on Friday it gained less than 1% after a bizarrely volatile day. But the chart garnering the most interesting is not on the equity side. And it's not a chart of the yen, which has been famously diving. The chart getting the most attention is the yield on Japanese Government Bonds, which have spiked in recent weeks (albeit from an extremely low level, to a still extremely low level). Here's a 3-year chart of yields on the 10-year Japanese Government Bond (via Bloomberg). Bloomberg Again, the actual yield is not enormous, and the yield is still back where Japan was a year ago, and not even that much higher than it was in the beginning of 2013. But when you have a country that's famously so much in debt, this kind of volatility in such a short time makes people queasy. All that being said, rising yields are a generally good sign. Japan's primary battle is about fighting deflation, and reversing the years and years of declining rates that have coincided with a weakening economy. So just like other markets that have been shocked into a reversal, JGBs are seeing a similar phenomenon. But without a doubt, this is the market that's got people paying the most attention.
APMorgan Stanley economist Takeshi Yamaguchi weighs on the question of what's likely to happen if the market keeps crashing, as happened on Thursday, when the Nikkei fell 7%. In case of prolonged corrections, additional policy ëarrowsí would likely support the economy: The emergency press conference by Economy Minister Amari on May 23 may have not been received favorably by the market, but is nonetheless a sign of the Abe administrationís strong focus on stock market trends. In case of prolonged corrections in the stock and FX markets with a risk of significant worsening in households and corporate sentiment, additional policy actions, both fiscal and monetary, would likely be deployed. On the monetary side, the BoJ could consider offering long-term fixed-rate lending operations with a two to three-year maturity, a Japanese version of LTRO, partly with the aim of lowering the volatility in the JGB market. While the longest tender of the current fixed-rate funds-supplying operations is one year, they have been effective to an extent, functioning as ìsignaling operationsî. The BoJ could also consider raising its purchase pace for ETFs and J-REITs. On the fiscal side, potential measures would include a one-year postponement of the consumption tax hike currently scheduled from April 2014, or an additional stimulus package. These policy actions would further reduce the possibility of the economy entering a double-dip. Meanwhile, Japan had another wild day on Friday --&gt;
On Thursday, Japan crashed 7%. On Friday the market gained, but it was very strange. Check out the intraday chart of the Nikkei Nikkei.com The index surged by 3% in early going. Then at one point it was down nearly 500 points on the day. Then in the end it scraped out a mediocre gain. This is going to shake the world seeing this. Meanwhile, Australia lost another 1.6%. Europe is mixed, and US futures are currently lower. ¬†
