Asian markets are tumbling to begin the final day of trading this week. Right now, the Japanese Nikkei 225 is down 1.2% and the Korean KOSPI is down 0.7%. Dollar bloc markets are higher, however ‚Äî the Australian S&amp;P ASX 200 is up 0.3% and the¬†New Zealand Exchange 50 Gross Index¬†is up 0.5%. In the U.S., S&amp;P 500 futures are trading little changed from Thursday's close. The U.S. dollar is flat against the euro and the yen, while gold is down 0.4%, trading around $1344 an ounce.
Dreamworks II distributionFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Buying Film Tax Credits Is A Great Way To Help Clients Lower Their Tax Bill (The Wall Street Journal)¬†  Advisors can help lower their clients' state tax bill by buying tax credits from the TV and film industry writes Jini Thornton of Atlanta-based Envision Business Management Group in a new Wall Street Journal column.¬† "These tax credits are given to people in the film and TV industry as incentives to come into a particular state and make their movie or TV series there. Producers are able to sell these credits to general business owners or individuals who are looking for tax strategies to offset their state taxes. They then use the money from the tax credit sales to fund their projects."¬† She points out that these tax credits vary from state to state. Thornton also writes that investors should make sure they have a "reputable broker" since these credits are sold through brokers and that the producer meet the state requirements to receive these credits.  Bond Traders Are Passing Around This Report That Says The Fed Has Hit 'Ctrl-Alt-Delete' On Tapering (Medley Global Advisors) Bond traders have been passing around a report titled "Fed: Ctrl-Alt-Delete" by Regina Schleiger and Jeremy Torobin at Medley Global Advisors. Schleiger and Torobin argue that at the September meeting the FOMC "effectively hit the reset button and is back where it was six months ago ‚Äî at the very start of a long process of building the case for a downward adjustment to the Large-Scale Asset Purchase program." Advisors Tend To Shy Away From Alternative Investments (Investment News) A study by Natixis Global Asset Management has found that only 25% of advisors invest in alternative investments like hedge funds, private equity, and commodities. Those who do use alternative investments typically work with high-net worth investors. This is a bit of a problem for advisors, according to Megan Durisin at Investment News since 70% of those surveyed also said they need to use new portfolio strategies to bring their clients healthy, low-risk returns. The SEC Is Checking To See If Any Funds Are In Danger Of Blowing Up If Puerto Rico Goes Down (Bond Buyer) The SEC is probing US mutual funds to make sure they don't implode if Puerto Rico's credit rating is cut again, according to Bond Buyer's Kyle Glazier and Taylor Riggs. 77% of municipal bond mutual funds hold Puerto Rico debt, according to Bloomberg.¬†  "Securities law experts said the SEC probes appear to be aimed both at understanding the potential effects on the market if the heavily-indebted commonwealth suffers a further downgrade or even a default," report Glazier and Riggs. "They also seem to be checking to make sure that funds investing in those bonds are adequately disclosing the risks involved in Puerto Rico debt." Here's How Good Advisors That Have Been Fired Can Have A Life After Termination (WealthManagement.com) As compliance has become more vigilant good advisors have had their employment terminated for what they believed were authorized transactions, reports Mindy Diamond at WealthManagement.com. "It‚Äôs typically the ‚Äúone-off‚Äù arrangement that had been verbally approved by local management that winds up being viewed differently by someone above that forces the advisor into hot water."¬† But this doesn't mean the advisors career has come to a dead end. "It all depends on the advisor‚Äôs ability to hop into action immediately following the termination and secure proper counsel‚Äîa lawyer who specializes in the financial services industry and a skilled recruiter who can advocate for the advisor. Time is of the essence in order to ensure that the language in your U5‚Äîthe form for terminations that will be sent to FINRA from the firm within 30 days‚Äîis as ‚Äúfavorable‚Äù as possible. This is the language that is permanently recorded on an advisor‚Äôs U4 and most compliance departments will not permit hiring decisions without it."
Courtesy of Pavel KhodorkovskyPavel, Mikhail, and Pavel's mother Elena on Pavel's 18th birthday in Moscow.Pavel Khodorkovsky was in Boston when he first heard of his father's arrest, of how masked men stormed his father's jet at dawn in the Novosibirsk Airport in Siberia, aimed machine guns at him, slapped handcuffs on his wrists, and flew him to Moscow. He heard the news in a phone call from his mother on the morning of Oct. 25, 2003, but it would soon make headlines around the world. "Police in Russia seize oil tycoon," read The New York Times, "Russia's richest man held for fraud" went the BBC's version. Behind the headlines, was a†conflict between an oligarch who wanted to open up Russia to business and a new president, Vladimir Putin, who wanted to assert state authority. It was soon clear that the oligarch had lost. A decade later, 28-year-old Pavel is sitting in a nondescript office in Midtown Manhattan, trying to remember what he felt after hearing the news. The office, a former storage room, is now home to a non-profit dedicated to reforming Russia, Pavel's Institute of Modern Russia (IMR). "I was very surprised," Pavel says. "I was 18. I did not fully comprehend the gravity of what was going on and when I last spoke with my dad, he made it clear to me that there was a possibility of his arrest. But he was being so calm about it and talking openly about very high chance of landing in prison ó he calmed me down. I didnít really understand that this was going to happen in the span of the next month." The arrest was a shock, but Pavel still assumed it would blow over. He had flights booked to Russia for the Christmas break, and he planned on using them. Within a few days, however, his father had contacted him through his lawyer. "It was a general parental order," Pavel says ó don't come back until I am out of prison. Pavel still has his ticket, but he has never returned to Russia. Instead he has made a life in New York City, where the quiet, charming young man has gradually emerged as his father's spokesperson. It may help that he looks so much like his father, with dark, boyish features and close-cropped hair. October 25, 2013, is the 10-year anniversary of the day that Mikhail Khodorkovsky was arrested. In that time he has not seen his son, Pavel, once. (Mikhail's three younger children from a second marriage remained in Russia and have been able to visit their father periodically). But in less than a year ó next August ó Mikhail is due to be released from prison. Whether this will happen and what it means for the Khodorkovsky family, Putin, and the rest of Russia are some of the biggest questions of the year. Courtesy of Pavel KhodorkovskyMikhail with his mother Marina in 1985. Mikhail was 40 years old when he was arrested, and at that time he was seen as one of the brightest stars of Russia's post-Soviet capitalism.††In fact, he was one of the small number of†entrepreneurs who had existed within the closing years of Russian communism, and like everything from this period, the exact nature of his rise from rags to riches to jail is murky. Perhaps the best English-language account of how Mikhail made his money was written by David E. Hoffman, the former Moscow bureau chief for the Washington Post, in his book "The Oligarchs."†First published before Mikhail's arrest, the book goes into depth about how a 20-something student began to work in some of Soviet Russia's first experiments in capitalism. Mikhail, the son of two Jewish engineers, had a modest upbringing. As a member of the Young Communist League, however, he worked out a clever way of turning the virtual, communist money that was used by factories for orders (beznalichnye) into real cash. "Starting in 1987, he began to churn the relatively useless beznalichnye into sought-after cash and, even better, into even more valuable hard currency," Hoffman writes. "The full story, even a decade later, is a bit of a mystery, and I discovered that many of those who participated in Khodorkovsky's money machine were reluctant to talk about it." Whatever the source of his newfound cash, Mikhail was able to use it to set up an importing business (while the major import was computers, Hoffman says that rumors suggest brandy and stone-washed jeans also factored in). By the early '90s he was virtually the face of Russia's nascent capitalism, with his own bank, Menatep, and the author of a book celebrating money, "The Man with the Ruble" (one key line: "Our guiding light is Profit, acquired in a strictly legal way. Our Lord is His Majesty, Money, for it is only He who can lead us to wealth as the norm in life"). In "Kremlin Rising: Vladimir Putin's Russia And The End Of Revolution," Susan Glasser and Peter Baker write that by the early 1990s, Mikhail had "noticed earlier than many that the future would be in oil," and positioned himself as an informal advisor to Boris Yeltsin's energy minister. He slowly began buying up state assets. Then, in 1996, the Mentep group bought the majority of shares in energy giant Yukos. The oil company was one of the spoils of the messy and violent period of post-Soviet privatization, where Russia's oligarch generation was created when the rich paid pennies on the dollar in government auctions and the now-notorious "loans for shares" scheme. The profits were huge, and Mikhail was transported from the realm of very rich to mega rich. APPresident Boris Yeltsin, right, welcomes tycoons Mikhail Khodorkovsky, center, and Vladimir Potanin at a meeting with Russia's most powerful businessmen in the Moscow Kremlin, in this Tuesday, June 2, 1998, file photo.Glasser and Baker write that during the 1998 Russian financial crisis, "Khodorkovsky moved to protect himself with a viciousness that would make him enemies for life." His self-protection included defaulting on huge foreign loans, stiffing the banks when they tried to collect collateral, and pushing American investor Kenneth Dart out of Yukos in a complicated shareholder battle. Those who crossed him grew to fear his wrath. Lee S. Wolosky, a lawyer who represented Dart and later wrote a critical article about Khodorkovsky for Foreign Affairs, told The New York Times that the Khodorkovsky camp were "bullies," and that he and his clients faced "the prospect of physical intimidation." "When you go back to '99-2000, he didn't have a very good reputation at all," says Fiona Hill, an expert on Russia with the Brookings Institute. "He seemed to be same kind of robber baron as a lot of the other oligarchs. He was heavy-handed and ruthless." By the early days of Putin's presidency, however, it appears that Mikhail was trying to make Yukos meet the standards of Western companies ó and by some accounts his attempts were successful. "Even though Yukos was conceived in the 'wild East' period of the 1990s,"†Thor Halvorssen, founder and CEO of the†Human Rights Foundation, writes in an email, "by 2000 it had become the most transparent Russian company." "An awful lot of people were trying to work out if this was all sincere," Hill says. "In a way, he was arrested before he could really prove it." As part of bringing Yukos up to Western standards, Mikhail had brought in an†American CFO, Bruce Misamore, who joined the company in February 2001.†Misamore, who had retired from his position at Penns Energy Company, admits that his research led him to conclude that "Mikhail had a bit of a reputation as a bad boy from a shareholder, governance standpoint," but he was still interested. "The company had brought in a new corporate governance code, and they had engaged several foreign directors, and it appeared that the company was in the midst of a clear turnaround,"†Misamore said in a recent phone call. "And of course, a big part of this was Russia. Russia seemed to be heading in the right direction under Putin at that point."†He felt something had changed at the company, however, and he was excited by the possibilities. Misamore†moved to Moscow for the job. As he puts it, the first couple of years were "fantastic," and Mikhail was the "probably brightest person I had ever met." "We were the fastest growing oil company in the world. We were turning a Soviet-style company into a far more westernized company, so we were implementing lots of corporate governance things, financial reporting, an investors relations function, a corporate secretary function,"†Misamore says. "I tried to set things up in terms of governance to be state of the art, and one of the corporate governance goals, the corporate charter goals, that had been established in 2000, was a listing on the NYSE and we were putting everything in place to do that after all the financial reporting and governance. Really, they only thing we hadn't got implemented by 2003 was the Sarbenes Oxley implementation and that was the next step." The next step was never taken, of course. Misamore†was in his apartment on Oct. 23 when he read Mikhail had been arrested. "It was very surprising," he said. "I thought it was not in the best interests of Putin or the country.†As it turns out, of course, I had misread Putin's agenda." APThis Sunday, March 4, 2012 file photo shows Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who claimed victory in Russia's presidential election, with tears running down his face up as he reacts at a massive rally of his supporters at Manezh square outside Kremlin, in Moscow. What motivated Mikhail's arrest? One theory is that Mikhail had grown politically ambitious. In the years before his arrest, he had given tens of millions of dollars to various parties, not just in the capitalist parties Yabloko and Union of Right Forces, but also in the Communist Party and even Putin's United Russia.† In Glasser and Baker's account, one source says Mikhail was trying to get one third of the Duma (Russia's parliament) on his payroll, and turn the country into a parliamentary government ó with himself as prime minister, and Putin, or someone else, as a figurehead president.†Putin not only felt threatened but also felt that Mikhail had violated an agreement with the oligarchs that they could keep their fortunes if they kept out of politics. Another theory is that Mikhail's oil company posed a threat to some powerful people. "He was suddenly changing the way that business was done in Russia," Hill says. "In a way that was really damaging a lot of vested interests all up and down the supply chain." Mikhail was keen to get Yukos up to international standards, and he began to talk publicly about selling a large stake in Yukos to ExxonMobil or Chevron and†focusing on public service. "In his efforts to make Yukos more transparent, he was moving to international suppliers, moving towards a way of doing business that was kind of like an alien virus in the old†sclerotic Russian economic system," Hill says. "He didn't want to order piping and other things from old, moribund Soviet enterprises, but that was part of the game." Putin's government wanted an oil giant, but it had to be one that played by their rules, Hill says. Pavel says that both political and financial factors played in his father's arrest. "My father was financing the opposition but it wasnít a secret," Pavel says. "Everyone knew that, including Putin, and it was done with very vocal direct authorization from the man himself. However, the second part, the economical trigger was the fact that Igor Sechin, then deputy Prime Minister, now the head of Rosneft, wanted to appropriate the Yukos company." "Where the two interests were combined was that Putin wanted to obtain enough power both domestically and internationally to try and resurrect the image of Russia as a super nation," Pavel says. That Yukos was destroyed, at least partly, for corrupt reasons has become accepted history. In 2010, the Economist cited one poll that found†63% of Russians believe the destruction of Yukos was orchestrated in the interests of a small group of bureaucrats and businessmen with close ties to the Kremlin. Yukos' group's assets remain in legal limbo to this day. It took less than a year for the oil giant, one of the most spectacularly successful companies in the world, to begin bankruptcy proceedings after Mikhail's arrest. A number of its assets, including the resource-rich Yuganskneftegaz, went up for auction. The only two bidders were Gazprom, a state-oil monopoly, and a company called Baikalfinansgrup, and Gazprom soon had to bow out due to a lack of funds. Writing in Vanity Fair, journalist Masha Gessen points that something about Baikalfinansgrup seemed fishy: For example, its registered address was in the desolate town of Tver, and the office turned out to be an empty space registered to 150 different companies. The company had been registered just a short while before the auction. Fishier still, the company was loaned $9 billion to buy Yuganskneftegaz by none other than Rosneft, the state oil company. The auction lasted just two minutes, and Rosneft would go on to buy Baikalfinansgrup a few days later. Rosneft would later grow to own a number of other Yukos assets. It is now listed as the world's largest listed oil company by output, according to Reuters. Even those within the government were a little confused. Andrei Illarionov, the senior economic adviser to Putin, summed it up as the "scam of the year," and that Russia had moved to a†"interventionist model of economic development, with dramatic interference from the state."†Illarionov resigned a little over a year later and remains a strident Putin critic. Misamore†fled Russia in 2004 during a trip to the country. He was warned he could be arrested if he returned. Since that day he's worked to protect the assets; filing bankruptcy in a U.S. court (which failed), forming two Dutch stichtings to protect Yukos' international assets, and taking the case against Russia to the European Court of Human Rights (it was filed in 2004 but is still in court). The plan is eventually to redistribute what remains of Yukos' assets among its shareholders and creditors and, ideally, seek retribution, Misamore says. "Russia needs to pay the shareholders. They need to compensate them for stealing the company with a fraudulent case,"†Misamore says. "Until the recent TNK-BP sale, 75% of Rosneft's value was former Yukos assets. It was a valuable asset that the Russians stole and they need to pay for it." Putin's role in the arrest of Mikhail and the destruction of Yukos has often seemed personal ó Gessen describes the two men as "central to each other's lives."† "Putin doesn't like Mikhail. As a Soviet person, a KGB person, someone who didn't grow up affluent. I think he's jealous of the people who were successful, and also thought that they got their money improperly," Misamore says. Putin is reported to have privately told Lord John Browne, the former head of BP, "I have eaten more dirt than I need to from that man" before his arrest. Pavel, for his part, thinks this isn't a major factor. "There was another aspect of personal animosity between the two men," he says, "but Putin is a very, very smart individual. I donít think the personal animosity that existed between them would ever lead to such drastic changes in domestic policy and re-nationalizing whole industries."  Still, many observers have pegged the turning point in Mikhail and Putin's relationship to a meeting in February 2003. The Russian president had invited Mikhail and other oligarchs to the Kremlin, and Mikhail had begun to complain about the sale of a small oil firm to Rosneft for an unusually low price, implying it was a corrupt deal. Putin, according to numerous reports, turned the conversation to Yukos' own huge assets. "The question is, how did they obtain them?" the Russian president said, barely hiding his anger (the clip above, from Cyril Tuschi's excellent feature length documentary "Khodorkovsky," captures the scene). Glasser and Baker's account of the meeting notes that the other oligarchs winced. "It was clear to me that we had just signed our own death warrants," Aleksei Kondaurov, head of the Yukos-Moscow management company later told the authors. "Putin does not take kindly to insults," Hill says. "If you look back at the video of those meetings, you can tell that Khodorkovsky comes out of it knowing that he's stepped over a line." Indeed, while the arrest later that year was a shock to many, in hindsight it appears that Mikhail was resigned to his fate. Alexander Temerko, a close friend and Yukos colleague of Mikhail's at the time, says he was not surprised by the arrest, "and, actually, it was not a surprise for him either." Temerko was responsible within Yukos for dealing with Russia's Ministry of the Interior. He says that when Mikhail was traveling to Siberia, his office heard that the general prosecutor wanted to interrogate Mikhail, and that he would probably arrest him if he did not return to Moscow. Temerko says that his advice was to return and talk to the prosecutor, but Mikhail refused, fearing he would be ordered to stay in Moscow if he returned. When he later heard that Mikhail would probably be arrested, Temerko says he phoned Mikhail again, who told him: "OK, I guess we will say goodbye. Try to save the company and help people: do the best that you can." Even Misamore, who was shocked by the arrest, admits that in hindsight there were signs that Mikhail was expecting it. The two met in Moscow two weeks before his arrest, and he noticed Mikhail had cut his hair down to a short crop. "I subsequently found out that it appeared he was preparing to go to prison by cutting his hair off," he says. It was around 8 a.m. on Oct. 25, as Mikhail boarded a private jet in Novosibirsk, ready to return to Moscow after visiting regional Yukos offices that masked men from the successor to the KGB, the FSB, surrounded him and waved automatic rifles in his face. Mikhail was led out in handcuffs and taken onto a different plane and flown to Moscow. APFormer Yukos CEO Mikhail Khodorkovsky, left in the defendant's cage, and business partner Platon Lebedev seen during a trial in Moscow, Thursday, Aug. 26, 2004. The trial of Mikhail and business partner Platon Lebedev became public spectacles. The pair were kept in a cage in a courtroom. It reportedly measured†47 by 31 by 20 inches. They were kept in Moscow's notorious pre-trial detention centers and escorted to and from court with the type of armed entourage usually reserved for terrorists. In total, dozens of people have been were arrested on Yukos-related charges. Mikhail and Lebedev's first trial ended in 2005, and the pair were found guilty of fraud and tax evasion and sentenced.† In 2011, a second trial found Mikhail and Lebedev guilty of embezzlement and money laundering, effectively convicted of stealing all the oil exported by Yukos between 1999 and 2003. Even those who had ignored the first trial seemed disturbed by the second ó U.S. and European governments criticized the verdict, and Amnesty International called Mikhail a "prisoner of conscience." "Whatever the rights and wrongs of Mikhail Khodorkovsky and Platon Lebedevís first convictions there can no longer be any doubt that their second trial was deeply flawed and politically motivated," Nicola Duckworth, Amnesty Internationalís Director for Europe and Central Asia, said at the time. Part of that recognition came from the speech Mikhail gave at the closing of the trial, railing against the power of the "siloviki" (the powerful people in Putin's inner circle) and the predictability of his verdict. "I am not a perfect person, but I am a person with an idea," Mikhail told the court. "For me, as for anybody, it is hard to live in jail, and I do not want to die there. But if I have to, I will. The things I believe in are worth dying for." "I have never been so moved by the words of a businessman," Joe Nocera wrote for The New York Times. Despite international recognition, Mikhail remained in Russia's notorious prison system, where he has faced multiple violations, Halvorssen notes,†pointing towards the period when Khodorkovsky was placed in solitary confinement for giving a magazine interview, or the four years he spent in Moscow's notorious pre-trial detention centers, even though these centers are no longer used for economic crimes. "The most horrifying, though, are the stories of Khodorkovskyís cellmates," Halvorssen adds. "In 2006 one of them was forced to attack Khodorkovsky, and later testified that he was tortured and threatened with murder until agreeing." Despite his conviction, Mikhail still has power, and the Russian government has been unable to get to most of his overseas assets. "He's built a pretty impressive network, in spite of being incarcerated in very nasty conditions," Hill says. Courtesy of Pavel KhodorkovskyPavel and Mikhail driving in Europe in 1999. Pavel says Mikhail was instrumental in his worldview, even though they never saw each other often. He left Russia at the age of 14 to attend boarding school in Switzerland, and he moved to Boston at the age of 18 to attend Babson College. That fall was the last time he saw his father. It took a while for Pavel to become involved in his Mikhail's case ó as he puts it he was "too young, too stupid, and ... didn't understand how long this would take."†After Pavel graduated from Babson, he moved to New York City to work for a Russian media company. He credits both his father and his Babson education with inspiring him to start his own business, Enertiv in 2011. It wasn't until 2006, at the request of his father's lawyer, that he began speaking publicly about the Yukos case. He later decided to continue the work his father had done with the Open Russia Foundation (a group founded in 2001 loosely modeled on the Soros Foundation that had effectively shut down in 2006)†and started the IMR in 2009. Pavel says it is funded with his own money and donations. "The idea was to influence the speed of democratic development back home," Pavel says. "There is no key decision maker, no key trade that would get my father out of jail. The only thing that would help him would be the return to the rule of law and return to democracy back home. It is a very broad goal but this is my motivation." "Thanks to IMR, Khodorkovskyís case has not been forgotten, despite the stateís efforts to hide him from the public eye in the most remote Russian colonies," Halvorssen writes. APThe son of imprisoned Russian tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Pavel Khodorkovsky, speaks during the award giving ceremony at the Artus House in Gdansk, Poland, Sunday, Sept. 29, 2013.The foundation is in the process of moving from a broad NGO to a think tank focused on democracy, Pavel says. Much of Pavel's work remains related to his father ó he recently accepted a $100,000 human rights award from Lech Walesa on behalf of his father, and the foundation is working with a number of other NGOs to host events for the 10th anniversary of Mikhail's arrest. While Pavel has a life in New York with Enertiv and a wife and young child, it's clear much of his attention remains back in Russia. He talks to his father over the phone most Saturdays, but Mikhail must split his allocated 15 minutes between various family members. "Ironically, with my father being in prison, Iím much closer with him now than when† I was 14," Pavel says. "I didnít know what the hell I would be doing in a couple of years, my father had a very clear vision of what he wanted at 40. Now our interests are very much in sync so we feel like we are much closer." In theory, this could all end next August with Mikhail's release from prison. Even now, however, there are persistent rumors that a third trial is in the works ó Der Spiegel reported this week that he may be charged with "being the head of an international network that is allegedly operating against the Russian state." Pavel, for his part, seems optimistic. He points out that Yukos business partner Lebedev is due to be released on May 2, just a couple of months after the Sochi Winter Olympics. Russia is spending a ridiculous amount of money on the Sochi games, part of a clear push to dispel the persistent talk of corruption and inefficiency that lingers around the country. Putting Lebedev back on trial so quickly after the event would be a seriously bad PR move, and if Lebedev gets out it's likely that Mikhail will too. There's also the possibility of amnesty for those convicted of non-violent crimes, as suggested recently by the Kremlinís human rights council. Still, he has learned not to take anything for granted: "I'm not holding my breath," Pavel says. What would Mikhail do if he is released? Politically, he has been isolated for a decade, and in that decade a lot has changed in Russia. He missed the 2011 Duma election protests that led to large-scale protests in Moscow and other cities, and, while he has corresponded with most of the young opposition movement and seems to be viewed positively, it's not entirely clear if he and, say, Alexey Navalny would work together. Today, the idea of Putinist repression may no longer conjure thoughts of Mikhail Khodorkovsky as much as that of the punk rockers who ended up in jail (Pussy Riot) or the corruption-fighting lawyer who ended up dead (Sergei Magnitsky). The hope, of course, is that Mikhail's 11 years of prison can be turned into something positive. "I do think that having gone through a prison sentence like this, it must be pretty transformative," Hill says. "He didn't flee, he didn't leave the country. He really is like something out of a 19th century Russian novel. He's suffered and become a martyr." Mikhail himself hasn't publicly speculated, but an op-ed he wrote for The New York Times this week demonstrates he remains unafraid to speak his mind. "Today the system for running the country is called 'Vladimir V. Putin,'" he writes, before warning ominously that "Russia runs the risk of seeing another authoritarian regime follow his." Perhaps tellingly, Mikhail mentions Nelson Mandela ó another jailed rebel, and one who later went on to head the state that jailed him. So who knows? Mikhail's friend Temerko says that he hopes the man will take some time off to improve his health and that he doubts Mikhail will go into politics or business again, perhaps instead focusing on the non-profit sphere, in particular education, and spending time with his family. "I donít know what he will do," Pavel says. "I know what I will do. I will try to get him out of Russia as soon as possible because he needs to rest. He needs to do time with his family. We all havenít seen him in a while. His parents are not feeling that well, my grandparents. Weíll need to be a lot of catch-up will need to be done." Pavel's perspective on Russia itself seems despondent. "I donít think heíll get into politics because 'A,' he would risk a third conviction right away and 'B,' it seems like the society is not prepared, regardless of who is at the helm of the opposition," Pavel adds. "It just seems like the society overall is not yet there." "Many times Khodorkovsky repeated that he intends to stay in Russia after his release," Halvorssen†writes. "I donít know whether he intends to ever run for office, but it is pretty clear to me that this man has, is, and will likely continue to shape Russian politics." In short, no one knows what will happen, but people across Russia are wondering. After all, Mikhail's life has in some ways embodied the progress of Russia, from the Soviet era, to Soviet experiments with capitalism, to an oil money oligarchy, to a Russia dominated by Putin. The question is what comes next. As for Pavel ó a man for whom much of life revolves around a country he left when he was 14 ó could he return? "No," Pavel says, laughing. "Very simple answer, no. It would take the entire country to change."
The full set of numbers will appear here. After hours, the stock moved higher by about 5% almost immediately, to $348. It went up 8% to $359+ before 5 p.m. The stock closed around $331 today, up about 1.5%. CEO Jeff Bezos's press release contained a shout-out to New York Times write Nick Bilton, who wrote a column recently explaining the FAA's decision to allow people to leave the Kindles on during takeoff and landing of airplanes. The statement said: In the last 90 days, our AWS team Ö† scored a win for customers who want to use Kindles on airplanes even during takeoff and landing (also, a big hat tip to Nick Bilton on that one), ... (Bilton has been more famous recently as the author of a new book about the difficult birth of Twitter.) Here's the current guidance for Q4 2013: ††† ï†† †Net sales are expected to be between $23.5 billion and $26.5 billion, or to grow between 10% and 25% compared with fourth quarter 2012.†† †ï†† †Operating income (loss) is expected to be between $(500) million and $500 million, compared to $405 million in fourth quarter 2012. Here's what analysts were expecting: Among the issues investors will be hoping that CEO Jeff Bezos addresses on the call are, whether the company will make any move to become more profitable; and progress on the development of its new grocery home delivery service, AmazonFresh. We're also hoping that Bezos might have something special up his sleeve in terms of devices: Either something for TV or ó outside chance, admittedly ó an Amazon smartphone. Here's the press release: SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Oct. 24, 2013-- Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2013.Operating cash flow increased 48% to $4.98 billion for the trailing twelve months, compared with $3.37 billion for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2012. Free cash flow decreased 63% to $388 million for the trailing twelve months, compared with $1.06 billion for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2012. Free cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2013 includes fourth quarter 2012 cash outflows for purchases of corporate office space and property in Seattle, Washington, of $1.4 billion.Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based awards totaled 475 million on September 30, 2013, compared with 469 million one year ago.Net sales increased 24% to $17.09 billion in the third quarter, compared with $13.81 billion in third quarter 2012. Excluding the $332 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, net sales grew 26% compared with third quarter 2012.Operating loss was $25 million in the third quarter, compared with an operating loss of $28 million in third quarter 2012. The unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter on operating loss was $7 million.Net loss was $41 million in the third quarter, or $0.09 per diluted share, compared with a net loss of $274 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, in third quarter 2012. The third quarter 2012 includes a loss of $169 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, related to our equity-method share of the losses reported by LivingSocial, primarily attributable to its impairment charge of certain assets, including goodwill.ìItís been a busy few monthsówe launched a new Paperwhite and new Kindle Fires to positive reviews and surprised people with the revolutionary Mayday buttonóaverage Mayday response times are just 11 seconds!î said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. ìAnd thatís not all. In the last 90 days, our AWS team got back to work on a big government contract, we brought 8 million square feet of fulfillment center capacity online, deployed 1,382 Kiva robots in three FCs, provided a new venue for artists to reach customers, signed up millions of new Prime members, announced Kindle MatchBook, Login &amp; Pay, and nine new original TV pilots, joined the Code.org coalition, acquired TenMarksóa company that helps kids with math, scored a win for customers who want to use Kindles on airplanes even during takeoff and landing (also, a big hat tip to Nick Bilton on that one), began hiring and training 70,000 new U.S. FC employees to help serve customers this holiday season, and saw the Kindle Million Club grow to include 14 KDP authors.îHighlights†† †ï†† †Amazon introduced the third generation of Kindle Fireóthe all-new Kindle Fire HDX. The new Kindle Fire HDX tablets combine groundbreaking hardware, the latest version of Fire OS, and exclusive new features and services like X-Ray for Music, Second Screen, Prime Instant Video downloads, and the revolutionary new Mayday button.†† †ï†† †The new Kindle Fire HDX family features stunning exclusive display with exceptional pixel density (323 ppi for 7î, 339 ppi for 8.9î), a powerful quad-core processor running at 2.2 GHz with over 3x the processing power compared to the previous generation, and a startlingly light designóat just 13.2 ounces, the 8.9î Kindle Fire HDX is the lightest large-screen tablet, 34% lighter than the previous generation.†† †ï†† †Amazon also introduced the new $139 Kindle Fire HD, with a slimmer and lighter design, HD display, high-performance processor, and dual speakers with Dolby Digital Plus audio.†† †ï†† †Kindle Fire HDX includes the new Mayday button, delivering revolutionary live tech supportóone touch connects you to an Amazon expert who can guide you remotely through any featureó24x7, 365 days a year, and itís free.†† †ï†† †Amazon introduced new enterprise and productivity features in Fire OS 3.0 ìMojito,îóthe next generation of software and services that powers the Kindle Fire tabletsóincluding encryption, secure Wi-Fi, a native VPN client, Kerberos support for Intranet access, integration with leading Mobile Device Management (MDM) solutions, a new email client, built-in OfficeSuite support and wireless printing capabilities. These features will be available on the new Kindle Fire HD and Kindle Fire HDX.†† †ï†† †Amazon announced that the worldís best-selling e-readeróKindle Paperwhiteóis getting even better. The all-new Kindle Paperwhite features new display technology with higher contrast, the next generation built-in light, a faster processor, the latest touch technology, and exclusive new features designed from the ground up for readers, including Kindle Page Flip, Goodreads, Kindle FreeTime, Smart Lookup, Vocabulary Builder, and more.†† †ï†† †Amazon introduced Kindle MatchBook, a new benefit that gives customers the option to buyófor $2.99, $1.99, $0.99, or freeóthe Kindle edition of the print books they have purchased new from Amazon. Print purchases all the way back to 1995ówhen Amazon first opened its online bookstoreówill qualify once a publisher enrolls a title in Kindle MatchBook.†† †ï†† †Amazon launched the Mexico Kindle Store, offering Mexican customers over 2 million titles, hundreds of thousands of which are exclusive, and more than 70,000 in Spanish. In addition, Amazon announced that Kindle and Kindle Paperwhite are now on sale locally in Mexico at Gandhi stores. For more details, visit www.amazon.com.mx.†† †ï†† †Building on a successful first round of pilots last April,†Amazon†announced it has given the green light for the production of six new pilots for kids, as well as three new half-hour pilots created by a mix of Oscar, Emmy and Tony-nominated writers. Customers will be invited to watch, provide feedback and help determine which pilots should be produced as series to air exclusively on Prime Instant Video and Amazonís LOVEFiLM in the†UK†in 2014.†† †ï†† †Amazon launched Appstore Developer Select, a program for developers who optimize their apps and games for Amazonís Appstore and Fire OS. Developers in the Appstore Developer Select program will receive a broad range of marketing and economic benefits that will help improve app discovery and increase sales even further. Appstore Developer Select apps receive premium placement in the Amazon Appstore, 500,000 ad impressions on the Amazon Mobile Ad Network, and automatic inclusion in the Amazon Appstore Coins Reward category. Customers will receive Amazon Coins when they purchase Appstore Developer Select apps, games, and in-app items. Developers in the program also receive credits equaling 25% off their first $2,000 in AWS services annually.†† †ï†† †Amazon released Login and Pay with Amazon, a new service that streamlines how customers transact with online merchants, allowing participating companies to empower customers to go from browsing to buying in just a few clicks using their Amazon account information.†† †ï†† †Amazon.com, Inc. announced the launch of Amazon Art, a marketplace that gives customers direct access to more than 40,000 works of fine art from over 150 galleries and dealers. The store is one of the largest online collections of original and limited edition artwork for purchase directly from galleries and dealers. The new store features easy-to-use discovery tools to help open the art world to customers and offers detailed information about the works of art from galleries of all sizes.†† †ï†† †Amazon is creating more than 70,000 full-time seasonal jobs across its U.S. fulfillment centers this holiday season in order to meet an increase in customer demand. In 2012, Amazon converted thousands of seasonal employees into regular, full-time roles after the holidays, and expects to do the same this year. On average, seasonal employees earn 94 percent of Amazon fulfillment center employee starting wages and are eligible for health care benefits.†† †ï†† †Amazon.com, Inc. acquired TenMarks, a company that is helping teachers and parents deliver innovative mathematics curriculum to students across the country.†† †ï†† †Since launching the marketplace website Amazon.in last quarter, Amazon has rapidly added more selection to serve customers in India with 10 new categories launched in less than 120 daysóKindle, Consumer Electronics, Mobile Phones &amp; Accessories, Computers &amp; Accessories, Toys, Baby, Personal and Health Care Appliances, Watches, Fashion Jewelry, and Home and Kitchen. With Amazon.in customers can shop with ease and confidence from over nine million books, over 130,000 products from hundreds of brands, and more than 1.9 million eBooks from a constantly expanding group of retailers.†† †ï†† †Amazon Web Services (AWS) introduced more than 15 new features and enhancements to its fully managed relational and NoSQL database services. Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) now supports Oracle Statspack performance diagnostics and has expanded MySQL support, including capabilities for zero downtime data migration. Enhancements to Amazon DynamoDB include new cross-region support, a local test tool, and location-based query capabilities.†† †ï†† †AWS continued to bolster its management services, making it easier to provision and manage more AWS resources with AWS CloudFormation and AWS OpsWorks, which both added support for Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC). AWS also enhanced the AWS Console mobile app and introduced a new Command Line Interface.†† †ï†† †AWS continued to gain momentum in the public sector and now has more than 2,400 education institutions and 600 government agencies as customers, including recent new projects with customers such as the U.S. Federal Drug Administration.Financial GuidanceThe following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.comís expectations as of October 24, 2013, and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce and the various factors detailed below.Fourth Quarter 2013 Guidance†† †ï†† †Net sales are expected to be between $23.5 billion and $26.5 billion, or to grow between 10% and 25% compared with fourth quarter 2012.†† †ï†† †Operating income (loss) is expected to be between $(500) million and $500 million, compared to $405 million in fourth quarter 2012.†† †ï†† †This guidance includes approximately $350 million for stock-based compensation and amortization of intangible assets, and it assumes, among other things, that no additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings, or legal settlements are concluded and that there are no further revisions to stock-based compensation estimates.A conference call will be webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET, and will be available for at least three months at www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Companyís financial and operating results.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVTesla's stock is up 5.5% to $173.52 today. The stock is up 414% year-to-date. But many have argued that the stock is overpriced.† In an interview with Bloomberg TV's Guy Johnson, Tesla CEO Elon Musk said he thinks the current price is "more than we have the right to deserve." "The stock price that we have is more than we have any right to deserve. I'm not going to sit here and say we deserve every penny of that. I think it's more than we have any right to deserve. "We're going to do our best to fulfill the expectations of investors and I think in the long-term that stock price is going to seem fair. It's difficult to predict where it goes in the short or medium-term but I do feel good having the company achieve that value and more in the long term."† Musk was in London at the opening of Tesla's first retail store in London when he made the comments. Earlier today it was also reported that Tesla hired Apple vice president Doug Field to lead vehicle programs. As if adding to that point Bloomberg TV's Cory Johnson pointed out that today's stock price doesn't reflect an important decision that will be made in California today that could cut the maximum zero emission vehicle credits for its Model S by over 40%.
REUTERS/David W CernyA salmon fry swims in a ladle as it is released into the Kamenice river near the village of Jetrichovice, October 22, 2013.Stock quietly moved higher today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesRani Nazim is an Executive Director in the Fixed Income Division at†Morgan Stanley, where she trades investment grade bonds and credit default swaps. She has worked for Morgan Stanley for the past nine years.  Recently, she sat down with Vault and answered questions concerning the current state of female diversity in investment banking, what itís like to be a woman on Wall Street, and Sheryl Sandbergís ìLean Inî philosophy. Below is an excerpt from that conversation.† Where did you grow up and go to school? And how did you get into banking?† I was born in Pakistan but spent a large portion of my childhood and adolescence living in Ireland and Saudi Arabia. After going back to Pakistan for high school, I decided to go to the U.S. for college and studied electrical engineering at the University of Pennsylvania. Although I considered pursuing a career in engineering, I became interested in finance after speaking with recent alumni at on-campus recruiting events. I worked as a summer analyst at Merrill Lynch between my junior and senior years. I had a very positive experience working on the Merrill trading floor and decided I wanted to pursue a career as a trader. How did you find your way to Morgan Stanley and into your current role at the firm?† After graduation, I was offered a position as a first-year fixed income analyst in Morgan Stanleyís Hong Kong office. Morgan Stanley had a great rotational program and I was able to sit with and learn from a variety of desks within fixed income. I liked the open culture at Morgan Stanley and the emphasis they placed on developing new analysts. Unlike some of my American friends at Penn, I had no qualms about working in Asia because I did not have as many ties to the U.S.† While in Hong Kong, I worked in various roles in research, sales, and trading. Since I had a quantitative background and a competitive personality, I was most interested in trading and believed it was the best fit for me.†† I worked on the trading desk from 2004 to 2007. I really enjoyed my time trading in Hong Kong and had excellent mentorship, which ultimately led me to a new opportunity. In 2007, the head of the Asia credit trading desk in Hong Kong asked me if I wanted to move to New York and continue trading Asian credit there. Having spent three years in Hong Kong, I decided I was ready for a change and accepted the opportunity. After trading Asian credit in New York for four years, the head of our group told me there was an opening to trade U.S. cyclical bonds and credit default swaps. He was very encouraging and told me he thought I would be a great fit for the role. I accepted and have been in this role ever since. My current responsibilities include trading corporate bonds issued by investment grade metals, chemicals, and paper companies in the U.S. I also trade credit derivatives. Given all the volatility in commodities, trading these sectors can be rewarding and sometimes nerve-wracking but always interesting.† Whatís it like being a woman on the trading floor?† Itís widely known that there arenít a lot of female traders on Wall Street, so women tend to get a lot of visibility. In my experience, managers have taken a lot of interest in my work, and Iíve also had a very supportive and encouraging mentor, which has helped my career trajectory. After three years in Hong Kong, I felt ready for a new challenge and felt comfortable bringing up my interests with my manager. This openness eventually led to my move to New York, which in turn opened a door for me to my current position. Developing close relationships with managers and mentors can often help move your career forward and provide opportunities you may not have had otherwise.† Do you think itís possible for a woman to have a family†and†work as a Wall Street trader?† Managing a career and a family is always balancing act. And this job is definitely demanding. But there are many female traders who have families, and I see them successfully balance both work and family.† Do you think women can leave their jobs on Wall Street, start a family, and then reenter the workforce successfully?† Leaving for a year doesnít preclude you from returning to the industry. In fact, Iíve seen several women take a year off and re-enter the workforce. Of course, there is some catching-up to do. But if a woman, or anyone for that matter, takes five years off, then returning to the workforce will obviously be more difficult. If you make a decision like that, you have to keep the future in mind. Where are you going to be 20 years from now? Itís a balancing act and very challenging. And itís just as difficult for men to leave and come back as it is for women.† The commonly held belief is that there still arenít a lot of women on Wall Street.† Over the course of your career, how have you seen that change?†† Historically, finance has been a male-dominated industry and both minorities and women had a tough time building careers on Wall Street. But the nature of the business and the people in it are all changing, and I think this creates more opportunity. In my business alone, four women were promoted to senior management positions this year. I think this underscores the importance of female executives in the trading business and on Wall Street. Equally impressive, Morgan Stanley has been recognized by†Working Mother†magazine for 13 consecutive years as one of the ìTop 100 companies for working mothers.î To me, this proves more women feel comfortable balancing work and family, so naturally you see more women on Wall Street.† Whatís Morgan Stanley doing to help to hire and retain more women?† The firm is really focused on hiring a diverse workforce, so we can offer a wide array of creative ideas for our clients. Our Campus and Lateral Recruiting teams actively reach out to womenís organizations and connect potential employees to current female employees. I have participated in some of these events. But the point is that Morgan Stanley hires top talent, regardless of their gender.† As for retention, there are a number of initiatives the firm offers. For example, Iím part of the VP Womenís Development Program, which identifies talented women across the firm and exposes them to senior managers. I had breakfast with James Gorman, the CEO. I also had dinner with John Mack, our former CEO, and several global division heads. This type of exposure to top management is very helpful. It inspires you to stay. It shows that the firm cares about you. It makes you feel like a valued employee. We also have mentorship programs for women, as well as for men, but mentees always have to remember that it becomes their job to stay in touch with their mentors. There are also a couple of organizations within the firm that provide women with networking opportunities and exposure to prominent females across different industries. The Womenís Business Alliance is one example. This womenís organization hosts various speakers like General Halstead and Maria Bartiromo and numerous other development and networking sessions. The firm also hosted Sheryl Sandberg.† What did you talk about when you had breakfast with Gorman?† We talked about the firmís goals and its strategy. I found it very inspiring to learn about the strategy of the firm as a whole since Iím most often focused on my own business-specific strategy. Also, I was able to bring up specific concerns that I had. In those meetings, you can discuss anything youíd like.† You mentioned that Morgan Stanley hosted Sheryl Sandberg, did you attend her talk?† Yes.† What did she talk about?† She shared an inspiring message about how women can lean in and achieve success: that we ìhave the permission to be ambitious.î She discussed the three reasons she thinks there is a leadership ambition gap among women: a lack of confidence that they have the critical skills to fill executive roles; the perception that professional ambition may be ìdistastefulî; and concerns about balancing work and family. I appreciated that she shared some great advice while candidly sharing examples of times when she grappled with her own self-confidence gap.† What advice would you give to women wanting to work in trading or other areas on Wall Street?† Work very, very hard. Ask a lot of questions. Always be eager to learn. Try to learn as much as possible. Be the best you can at what you do. Ask for more responsibility. Ask what you can do next ó you should constantly ask for the next step. Be aggressive. And do not be shy. In this business, there are a lot of aggressive, type-A people. So you canít be shy. A lot of people have been surprised at how straightforward I am. At work, I feel as though Iíve had lots of freedom to express myself freely and talk openly. I tell my manager if I donít agree with something and then we can discuss it. Outside of work, that openness and freedom doesnít always exist.† This post was sponsored by†Morgan Stanley.
Billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn has been grabbing a lot of headlines as he attempts to persuade Apple CEO Tim Cook to undertake a $150 billion share buyback. Today, he was on CNBC for a long time. Miller Tabak chief economic strategist Andrew Wilkinson puts Icahn's stake in Apple into perspective in his "chart of the day." In a note to clients, Wilkinson writes: Whether he tweets it, sends a letter to a companyís top brass or just grabs a handful of shares, itís hard to miss the attention commanded by Carl Icahn. The activist billionaire investor is pushing Apple chide Tim Cook to spend $150 billion buying back shares in the company in the interests of shareholders. Mr. Icahn suggests paying 3% to borrow that amount of money with the aim of buying back its shares at $525 apiece, Apple could beef at one fell swoop its EPS by 33%. Not quite top-line growth, but we get the point. But for all the fuss, and we know just how vocal Mr. Icahn can become on television, his fund holds around 0.5% of shares outstanding at Apple. Granted thatís worth a tidy $2.5 billion but it is well down the pecking order.†Icahn Associatesí holding of 4.7 million shares compares to 47.0 million held by Appleís largest investor ñ Blackrock ñ which owns 5.2% or 47 million of Apple valued at $23.5 billion at current prices. Based on his near-hour long appearance on television over lunch, perhaps we should expect to hear the Blackrock folks take to the airwaves all day Friday to pitch their case for how Tim Cook needs to run his company. Here's the chart. Miller Tabak
REUTERS/Alvin Baez A billboard announces office space and parking for sale in San Juan, August 31, 2013. The SEC is probing U.S. mutual funds to make sure they don't blow up if Puerto Rico's credit rating degrades further, Bond Buyer's Kyle Glazier and Taylor Riggs report. Puerto Rico is facing a credit crisis. Its bonds having declined more than 19% in value in 2013, Bloomberg's Michelle Kaske says. Although, S&amp;P just reaffirmed its rating of BBB-. The island's economy has failed to fully recover from the financial crisis, and yields on 10-years now stand at nearly 8%. Many funds ‚Äî including 77% of muni bond mutual funds, according to Kaske¬†‚Äî have huge exposure to the island's debt because it is tax free.¬†Franklin Templeton‚Äôs ‚ÄúFranklin Double Tax-Free Income A‚Äù fund comprises 61% Puerto Rico debt, and Oppenheimer Funds‚Äô ‚ÄúOppenheimer Rochester VA Municipal A,‚Äù contains 33% Puerto Rico debt, Bond Buyer reports.¬† While the SEC is qualifying its probes as ‚Äúlimited scope examinations,‚Äù¬†the situation is now serious enough to merit closer scrutiny. The agency has asked for, "copies of the most recent stress test, the VAR, or Value-At-Risk analysis performed for the fund, and policies and procedures used to value portfolio positions." More: "Securities law experts said the SEC probes appear to be aimed both at understanding the potential effects on the market if the heavily-indebted commonwealth suffers a further downgrade or even a default. They also seem to be checking to make sure that funds investing in those bonds are adequately disclosing the risks involved in Puerto Rico debt." Because of its unique status as a U.S. territory, Puerto Rico can't file for bankruptcy. The Obama Administration has said no federal bailout is imminent but that they are monitoring the situation.
APFed Vice Chair Janet YellenEveryone on Wall Street is talking about when the Federal Reserve will begin to taper its quantitative easing program after the FOMC shocked markets by refraining to do so at the conclusion of its September policy meeting. In fact, lately, the conversation is turning to whether the Fed will taper at all. One possibility that virtually no one on Wall Street is talking about, though, is that the central bank actually elects to increase quantitative easing. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale managing director and head of U.S. interest rate strategy Mary-Beth Fisher asserts today, however, that the scenario in which the FOMC announces an increase in QE at its October policy meeting next week is "not a possibility we can ignore." Fisher explains in a note to clients: In retrospect the decision not to taper seems a prescient choice by the FOMC. Unfortunately, there has been no ìcontinuing improvementî since the last meeting. Moreover,†the fiscal uncertainties became a near-fiscal disaster, one that will weaken the October data†and lingers on the horizon for Q1 2014.† The question now may very well be whether or not the FOMC will choose to increase asset†purchases at the next meeting, or whether it will include language in the FOMC statement that indicates they are strongly considering the option. A simple interim solution would be to reinsert the language that appeared in the May through July FOMC statements that ìthe Committee is prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes.î Fisher pegs the chances of bigger QE at 10%, "with full disclaimer that our economics team thinks this probability is closer to 0.0001% and†that your author is nuts!" In that case, she says the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note could go to 2.00%, and "the bull flattening of the Treasury curve will run us all†over." Of course, the Fed has a lot of reasons not to announce such a move, as Fisher fully acknowledges. "The potential downsides to increasing asset purchases would be that (1) the market would assume the FOMC was focusing on a very grim economic picture; (2) the perceived risk of inflating asset bubbles in various market segments would rise; and (3) the FOMC may run into a credibility problem (again) by whipsawing the market," she writes.
Some CNBC and Fox Business News reporters have come out against the $13 billion settlement JP Morgan has negotiated with the Justice Department to settle claims over faulty mortgage products sold in the run-up to the financial crisis. This has put them in the crosshairs of The Daily Show host Jon Stewart. Last night, Stewart skewered their over-the-top defense of JP Morgan and its CEO, Jamie Dimon. "It's a shakedown-witch hunt-scalping-jihad!" he mocks, repeating the exact terms used by the cable channels' hosts to describe the settlement. He also addresses the contention that JPM should not be punished for the misdeeds of Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual units, which were purchased at the height of the crisis, pointing out Jamie Dimon warned investors precisely of this outcome in 2008. "Problems you cause don't disappear because someone buys you. They're included in the price. You know who knew that? Jamie Dimon and JP Morgan!" Check it out:  
The stock market is moving higher as bonds move lower today. That's a less and less common occurrence lately, as Citi FX guru Steven Englander illustrated in two great charts yesterday. The S&amp;P 500 index is trading at 1752, up 0.4%, while the Dow is up 0.7% (over 100 points), trading around 15,518. 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are 0.2% lower, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is one basis point higher at 2.51%. Gold is having a strong day, trading up 1.1% at $1348 an ounce. Economic data this morning were mixed:
Wall Street was completely convinced that the Federal Reserve would begin to taper its quantitative easing program following its September FOMC meeting. There were several compelling reasons why it had to happen in September. In short, Committee members had raised concerns over both frothy markets and the economic effectiveness of QE in previous meetings, putting the central bank's credibility on the line by priming market participants for a tapering announcement and doing nothing to change expectations thereof. When the FOMC concluded its meeting on September 18 and announced that it would refrain from tapering on the grounds that economic data weren't improving quickly enough, market participants were completely caught off guard. Bond prices soared as investors re-calibrated their positions to reflect this new reality. "We have never heard investors as angry as the day after the Fed decided to not taper its asset buying program," said BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris. "Some investors argue that it was a deliberate attempt to introduce volatility into the market. Others said Fed credibility is shot." In a recent report, ISI vice chairman Krishna Guha, a former New York Fed official who served as a senior adviser to New York Fed president Bill Dudley until just a few weeks before the FOMC's September decision, sums up nicely the confusion the FOMC has created over the outlook for quantitative easing. Quoting minutes from recent FOMC meetings, Guha writes in a note to clients (emphasis added): The forward guidance on the balance sheet is provided by the QE policy rule. The problem here ñ as I have pointed out repeatedly ñ is that there is not one single policy rule but two elements of the policy rule that are not properly integrated.  The first element is the economic outcome based rule ñ that the committee will continue its purchases of Treasuries and MBS "until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability."†The second element is the cost-benefit rule ñ Committee decisions about the pace of purchases will "remain contingent on its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases." In my opinion the May/June taper talk was a tightening in monetary policy because it was not consistent with the forward guidance on the balance sheet provided by the economic outcome based policy rule. Put another way, it suggested that the Committee was pivoting from the first element of the policy rule to the second (cost-benefit analysis). And markets fell for the head-fake. Then, less than two weeks later, Congress shut down the U.S. government for 16 days, scaring market participants with the prospect of a debacle in which warring parties failed to raise the impending debt ceiling, resulting in a default on U.S. debt. And at the same time that major money-market funds were dumping U.S. Treasury bills, consumer confidence was plummeting. The shutdown was eventually lifted, and a true debt ceiling crisis was averted ó at least, temporarily. But the resolution didn't stop Bank of America from slashing its Q1 2014 GDP growth forecast†to reflect the next round of fiscal sparring set to take place in January and February, when the current deals struck by Congress this month expire. MarkitAmerican manufacturing output contracted in October for the first time since September 2009, at the height of the global financial crisis.Meanwhile, today we got the first look at the impact the fiscal crisis had on the American economy with Markit's flash October U.S. PMI survey, and it wasn't pretty. American manufacturing output contracted for the first time since September 2009. Manufacturers cited weakening domestic demand for the drop in output, which happened even as new export orders rose, reflecting an improving economic picture overseas. "It is clear from the September minutes that most Fed policymakers thought ex-ante that the no taper decision at that meeting meant taking time out for 6-12 weeks, during which time they would be able to review some additional data in housing and employment in particular, to validate the forecast before starting to taper," says Guha. "However, ex-post it is likely to take much longer to get the data they need to see consistent with the economic outcome based element of the QE policy rule reasserted in September." Initially, when the Fed didn't taper in September, Wall Street analysts and economists quickly coalesced around the view that it would probably do so in December. Then, when the economic effects of the shutdown came into view, expectations were pushed out to January, and now, many say they don't expect the Fed to act until March. Guha, for one, sees chances for when the Fed is most likely to announce the taper like this:†25% in December, 30% in January, 30% in March, and 15% after March. But amid a big rally in the bond market, many are wondering if tapering is quickly becoming a distant September memory. In a new report making the rounds on Wall Street bond trading desks today, Medley Global Advisors analysts†Regina Schleiger and Jeremy Torobin argue that, "more than simply standing pat, the Federal Open Market Committee has effectively hit the reset button and is back where it was six months ago ó at the very start of a long process of building the case for a downward adjustment to the Large-Scale Asset Purchase program." "That [tapering] eventuality is now a riskier proposition (and, consequently, the process of getting back to within striking distance is more difficult) because of troubling signs that economic momentum is slowing," write the Medley analysts. "The potential costs to financial stability of continuing purchases at the current $85-billion per month may, down the road, start flashing red and embolden FOMC hawks to push for an aggressive conclusion of the program. But right now the potential costs of withdrawing even the slightest bit of support from the economy appear much greater than they were." The consensus on Wall Street is that U.S. economic growth finally takes off in 2014, which will give the Fed the opportunity to taper. But what if it doesn't? Consider this: some believe the U.S. economy is actually entering a "late-cycle stage" ó in other words, the upward acceleration may not be coming. "A growing number of indicators are showing late-cycle dynamics, and while this need not imply a recession it might well indicate a shift into a period of slower growth and lower inflation," says Deutsche Bank global head of rates research Dominic Konstam. "So much for animal spirits," he writes in a recent note to clients: All else equal, our investment model that is derived from profits now clearly shows falling investment spend in 2014. So much for animal spirits: the corporate sector has little economic reason to invest, animal or not.  This is also apparent in corporate free cash flow, or internal funds available for investment. The first issue is that corporate cash flow growth has turned negative in recent data ñ levels not seen since 2007. The second issue is that year-over-year growth in corporate cash flow has historically tended to follow the contribution of labor input to profits, with a four quarter lag. This observation also argues that labor input is the moving part that is used to restore cash flow growth via profits. The recent increase (less negative decrease) in profits attributed to labor input could then be seen as the beginning of attempts to strengthen cash flow, with the bad news being that a positive contribution to profits implies cutting labor input. Labor input is high relative to productivity, which typically predicts a sharply slower labor market 2 years ahead. In fact, simply conditioning on the relative gaps of labor input to productivity when it is negative predicts an almost stagnant labor market. In the absence of further fiscal or monetary stimulus, a lower household savings rate, or some combination of these, the implication is lower, not higher, rates. "This is hardly a recipe for above trend growth," says Konstam. "We note that recent trend real growth is less than 2%, so if inflation is stuck in the 1-1.5% range, then nominal growth is stuck closer to 3%, not 4%. In that environment, nominal yields become restrictive over 3% and become inhibitive to growth." Here, Konstam is talking about a notion that Nomura chief economist Richard Koo has picked up on in recent weeks: that the Fed has backed itself ó and the American economy ó into a "QE trap." Koo visited U.S. clients and Fed officials in a recent trip, and he said no one was able to refute his theory, which goes like this: the Fed talks about tapering, sparking a rise in long-term interest rates as investors dump bonds. The rise in interest rates then weighs on rate-sensitive sectors of the economy ó like housing and automotive ó which causes the Fed to call the whole thing off because economic data aren't showing adequate improvement.† "This is ultimately the logic to our argument earlier this year that the sell-off driven by the shock of Fed taper rhetoric and the resulting positioning shift was self-limiting and could be said to preclude, rather than reflect, recovery," says Konstam. Perhaps the FOMC eventually decides that, regardless of the trajectory of economic growth, QE represents too big a stability risk to be worth it, as the Medley analysts suggest. ISI's Guha also foresees such a scenario if the data don't, in fact, improve. "I think we are now in a zone of true data dependency in which QE will be driven almost entirely by the data flow and how this affects the Fed forecast," he says. "I am confident this zone of true data dependency lasts through January and it will probably last through March. By contrast, from the March meeting onwards (if not before) the decision to taper becomes a question of monetary policy strategy, not just data flow ñ specifically, whether the Fed is willing to contemplate 'QE infinity' in a context of 2% growth."
Muddy Waters, an investment/research firm famous for its short calls on Chinese stocks, has announced a new short position in NQ Mobile Inc., and the stock is down an incredible 50% and falling. NQ is a Chinese telecom company traded on the NYSE here in the States. It has a market cap around $825 million and counting down. In a research note, Muddy Waters writes that NQ Mobile is a "massive fraud" and that it will go to zero. Here's a quick break down from Muddy Waters: And here's the stock... incredible dive.                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Carson Block                                            China                                            Stocks                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						8									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Muddy Waters Just Announced A New Position, And The Stock Is Getting Destroyed    Muddy Waters Just Announced A New Position, And The Stock Is Getting Destroyed        This is what happens when Carson Block comes after you.
APRepublicans like to warn that Obamacare is pushing droves of people into part-time work. House Speaker John Boehner has said "millions" of Americans can only find part-time work because of the law. Majority Leader Eric Cantor says America's economy is now a "part-time job economy." Sen. Ted Cruz used the talking point over and over again during his long Senate floor speech about defunding Obamacare. This talking point is a lie. It's not clear Obamacare is yet having any effect on work hours. And if there is an effect, it looks really small ó perhaps on the order of 100,000 workers having their hours cut, or one out of every 1,500 Americans in the labor force. But there is a conversation we should be having about how Obamacare affects the labor market, especially the "employer responsibility provision" that will come into effect in 2015. This provision will charge a $2,000 per-worker penalty to certain firms that do not provide health coverage to full-time employees. By the time the law is fully implemented, this probably will have a small but measurable effect of boosting involuntary part-time employment, perhaps by half a million workers. There is room for policy improvement here. The fraction of workers whose jobs could be affected by this provision is real, but small. The penalty only applies to firms with 50 employees or more. And it only penalizes companies that don't already offer health coverage to full time workers, which nearly all large firms do. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, in 2013, 91% of firms with 50 to 199 employees and 99% of firms with 200 or more employees offer coverage. So to be at risk of having your hours cut due to this provision, you have to be one of the few workers at a large firm that doesn't offer coverage. You also have to already be working (and want to work) more than 30 hours a week, and you probably have to have a low wage. For the rare high-wage worker at a firm not providing health insurance, a $2,000 penalty is likely not enough to induce the employer to cut hours. Jed Graham at Investors' Business Daily has been the leading numbers-based proponent of the case that Obamacare is driving part time work. For example, he's found that average hours worked are declining at†general merchandise retailers and bakeries (two sectors with a lot of full-time low-wage workers) even as they're rising across the whole economy. There's a problem with looking at narrow slices like this: Employment data comes from imperfect surveys, and if you look at enough sub-samples, you're likely to find some that confirm your hypothesis simply by chance. For example, market observers have been fretting for months about an economy-wide rise in part-time work that now appears to have been simply a blip in the Labor Department's household employment survey. But even if Graham's numbers are representative of real economic trends, the effects he's finding are small. He notes that, since a year ago, 119,000 more workers are employed 25-29 hours a week and 142,000 fewer are employed 30-34 hours a week. (The Affordable Care Act defines a full time worker, for purposes of the penalty, as someone working at least 30 hours.) If that entire shift is real and attributable to the ACA, it implies effects on the workweeks of somewhere between 1 in 1,000 and 1 in 1,500 American workers. Employers still have 15 months left before the penalties come into effect, so we may see bigger effects in 2014 and 2015. We already have a test case for this: Hawaii has had a version of the employer penalty since the 1970s, and economists at the†Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco found it led to about a 1.4% rise in part-time employment compared to states without the policy. If Hawaii's effects went national, we'd expect the employer mandate to eventually push about 400,000 Americans from full-time work to part-time work. That would be real problem, though not a wholesale reordering of the economy and not a reason to decry effects on "millions" of Americans. And the problem needs to be weighed against the policy benefits from the ACA: tens of millions of Americans getting health insurance they previously couldn't access or afford. The irony of this discussion is that some of the biggest beneficiaries from the ACA are the same low-wage, uninsured workers whose interests Republicans purport to defend when they complain about the law's effects on work hours. Under Obamacare, these workers get real benefits. Some will start getting health insurance through work because the employer mandate provision induces their employers to start offering coverage. Others work for firms that will pay the penalty instead of offering coverage ó those workers will get new access to heavily subsidized insurance through Obamacare's exchanges (at least, once HealthCare.gov starts working properly.) Those subsidies will often be quite large. A single parent with two dependent children working full time at $15 per hour with no health insurance will be able to get a silver-level exchange plan for just $1,250 per year under Obamacare.†Even uninsured employees whose hours are modestly cut (say from 32 hours a week to 28) may come out ahead because of Obamacare's insurance subsidies. What do Republicans propose to do to help these workers get health coverage once they have repealed Obamacare? Let them save money they don't have in tax-free Health Savings Accounts? All that said, repealing the employer mandate penalty would improve Obamacare. In part, that's because what small inducements for part-time employment the law does create would go away. And partly that's because the cost the mandate imposes on employers is likely to be passed through to workers, over time, as wage reductions. But most importantly, eliminating the employer mandate would make the law more progressive. As I noted above, the exchange subsidies available to low-wage workers are often very large, but they can't access them if they're getting insurance through work.  Trader Joe's is actually making a lot of its part-time workers better off by ending their health coverage and giving them $500 instead. In many cases, these employees' post-subsidy premiums in the Obamacare exchanges will be less than the required employee contribution to the old Trader Joe's plan. Absent the employer mandate, many firms like Trader Joe's in industries that rely on low-wage, low-skill labor would probably make the same decision to end coverage for their full-time workers, sending them to the exchanges. Instead of creating a small new problem in the labor market, Obamacare would relieve employers of one of the main costs of hiring and actually encourage more job creation. And since, in the long run, the cost of employee benefits is borne by workers, the government taking over responsibility for health coverage should lead to a rise in the wages of low-skill workers who have been hit especially hard by recent years' economic dysfunction. The main drawback of eliminating the employer mandate would be fiscal: The government would lose out on about $110 billion in revenue over 10 years, and more people would draw expensive exchange subsidies. That cost would have to be financed with debt in the short term and taxes in the long term. But the ultimate tax source used to cover that gap could be both more progressive and less economically damaging than the employer mandate itself. A conversation about improving Obamacare†ó perhaps someday, Republicans will be interested in having that conversation, instead of undermining and demagoguing the law at every turn†ó should include repealing the employer mandate so the law can have a positive effect on labor markets instead of a modest negative one. But even if the mandate isn't repealed, America won't turn into a "part-time work economy."
Screenshot via ABCDuring the Oct. 16 episode of ABC's "Jimmy Kimmel Live," host Kimmel held a "kids table" segment on the government shutdown.† And the segment has now raised all sorts of problems. Kimmel posed this question to four kids: "America owes China a lot of money, $1.3 trillion. How should we pay them back" he asked. Right away, one child suggests "killing everyone in China." Kimmel laughed off the comment, joking "that's an interesting idea." He returned to the point later asking "should we allow the Chinese to live?" The boy who had suggested all the Chinese be killed in the first place, stuck to his answer. Kimmel wrapped up saying "this has been an interesting edition of Kids Table: The Lord of the Flies edition." But not everyone took it as lightly.† Some in China were offended by the sketch, while others are non-plussed. From Shanghaiist.com: The clip is creating buzz on Weibo as well, with some users writing that the skit was in bad taste and that "Chinese are probably the only people that the U.S. mainstream media are free to publicly insult". Other users, however, felt that Kimmel meant no intentional harm and that "people should not be too serious" about the moppy-haired little boy's comments. There has also been a petition to the White House asking that the show be investigated. The petition stated that "† It is extremely distasteful and this is the same rhetoric used in Nazi Germany against Jewish people." It also asks that ABC "cut the show and issue a formal apology." The petition has already gathered 26,524 signatures and needs 73,476 more by Nov. 18. A thumbnail for the segment is still up on ABC though the video appears to have been removed. The entire segment can however be viewed online by watching the full Oct. 16 episode. Watch the segment below via South China Morning Post:  †
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesAn Apple shareholder named Carl Icahn has written a letter to Apple CEO Tim Cook. Mr. Icahn, who just bought Apple stock, wants Apple to immediately buy back $150 billion of its stock. To fund this purchase, Mr. Icahn wants Apple to borrow $150 billion, or use some of its cash and borrow the rest. Mr. Icahn believes that this buyback would immediately increase Apple's share price by 33%, sending the stock price soaring back to its high of $700 a share. Icahn also believes that, if Apple continues to grow at a compelling rate over the next several years, this buyback will cause the stock to soon blast through $1,000 a share. Well, I am an Apple shareholder, too. And I disagree with Carl Icahn. I don't want Apple to do a massive immediate share buyback. And I especially don't want Apple to borrow more money to do it. I believe that borrowing $150 billion to fund a one-time stock buyback would be the height of short-term financial thinking. This short-term financial thinking is exactly the opposite of what Apple is (and should be) all about. Regardless of what this buyback did to the share price over the near term, it would saddle Apple with a massive debt load. This debt load would reduce the company's flexibility during a critical period, and it would increase the risk that, if Apple stumbles, its stock price will get clobbered or wiped out. A debt-funded buyback would not help Apple build better products, improve its competitive position, help its customers, or increase the value of its long-term business. It would be nothing more than short-term financial engineering to appease short-term shareholders whose only interest in Apple is a quick score. To its great credit, Apple has never been about quick scores. I do agree with Carl Icahn that Apple has more cash and cash flow than it needs, and, therefore, I¬†would like to see Apple increase its dividend and stock buybacks. But not in a big one-time gift. And not by borrowing $150 billion. So on behalf of all Apple shareholders who care about Apple, Apple products, and the long-term value of the Apple franchise, I am writing my own letter to Tim Cook. Dear Tim: I have not yet had the pleasure of meeting you, but I hope to at some point. I have been a happy Apple customer for 6 years, and a happy Apple shareholder for 6 months. ¬†I have also observed Apple from afar for the last three decades, as a consumer, a Wall Street stock analyst, and a journalist. I want to start by saying that the grace, poise, and confidence with which you have led Apple in the two years since Steve Jobs died has been an inspiration to everyone. You had an unfathomably tough act to follow, and you have risen to the challenge. You have already shown the world that Apple will carry on without Steve, an accomplishment that no one would have been happier and more proud of than him. Under your leadership, Apple has continued to launch amazing new products and remain one of the greatest and most inspiring companies in history. As you are obviously aware, Apple's share price has been volatile for the past year. In the summer and fall of 2012, it soared to $700. Then it dropped by almost half to the high $300s. Now it has climbed back above $500. Don't worry about this volatility. You didn't cause it. And you can't control it. And your long-term shareholders ‚Äî the only ones you should care about ‚Äî are doing just fine. In fact, your long-term shareholders are doing better than fine. 15 years ago, when Apple almost went bankrupt, its stock traded as low as $3. As recently as six years ago, Apple's stock was trading below $100. A 5X return over six years is a better return than any shareholder could ever ask for.¬† Also, you didn't cause Apple's stock price to soar up to $700 last fall. You didn't promise anything you didn't deliver, or make exaggerated claims about an impossibly rosy future.¬† What caused your stock to soar to $700 was a mistake made by some of the same people who are now demanding that you make short-term financial engineering decisions to boost their short-term returns: Wall Street traders. Short-term volatility in the stock market is nothing new, and it is not worth worrying about. Great CEOs and value-creators like Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and Google CEO Larry Page don't worry about short-term volatility. And neither should you. Over the past 15 years, by producing great products, Apple has delivered extraordinary returns to shareholders. If Apple continues to produce great products over the next 15 years, Apple will continue to deliver extraordinary returns. If Apple continues to focus on products and customers, in other words, Apple's stock price will take care of itself. But I know that is not what you are hearing these days from another Apple shareholder, Carl Icahn. Mr. Icahn, who just bought your stock last month ‚Äî and owns only a fraction of one percent of the company ‚Äî is demanding that you immediately engage in a massive financial engineering scheme to boost your stock price and give him and other short-term traders a quick payoff. Specifically, Mr. Icahn is demanding that you buy back $150 billion of your own stock, taking on $150 billion of debt to do it. Mr. Icahn says this buyback will instantly increase your stock price by 33%. And then, Mr. Icahn continues, if you continue to grow Apple's cash flow, this added "leverage" will soon cause Apple's stock price to blast through $1,000.¬† To be clear: It is possible that Mr. Icahn is right. It is possible that, if you borrow $150 billion and use it to buy back your stock, that your stock price will pop back to $700. And it is possible that, with a smaller equity share base, if you continue to grow your cash flow over the next couple of years, Apple shares will rise to $1,000. It is possible. But it is far from guaranteed. Meanwhile, if you borrow $150 billion ‚Äî or even if you only borrow, say, $100 billion, and fund the rest of the purchase with cash on your balance sheet ‚Äî you will have saddled Apple with a massive debt load. This massive debt load will reduce Apple's flexibility during a critical time for the company and industry. The premium smartphone market, which has driven Apple's extraordinary profit growth over the past 5 years, is maturing rapidly. The future growth in smartphones will mostly come in emerging markets, where Apple's smartphone business is not strong. Meanwhile, other smartphone and tablet makers have begun to produce excellent products that significantly undercut Apple on price. Apple has responded intelligently to this threat ‚Äî offering modestly lower-priced smartphones and tablets ‚Äî but Apple is also still trying to hang on to its amazingly high profit margin. This is an understandable but risky strategy, especially in a "platform" market in which market share matters. It is possible that your current strategy of maintaining high prices and super-high profit margins is the best one. ¬†But I like the fact that you have the financial power and flexibility to reconsider that strategy if seems wise to. I like it in part because I do not yet know what products you have in development that might drive major revenue growth for Apple going forward.¬† I also¬†really like the fact that you haven't saddled yourself with a humongous mountain of debt while navigating this product and market transition. After all, tech markets change fast, as the experience of companies like BlackBerry, HP, Microsoft, Palm, Dell, and Apple in the 1990s make clear. If you are wrong, and smartphone and tablet prices continue to decline rapidly, and Android continues to take over the world, your profits and profit margins are going to decline regardless. And better that they decline with your still having $150 billion of cash and little debt than after tying what amounts to a dead elephant on your back. Importantly, I do agree with Carl Icahn on one point. I agree that you have more cash than you need and that you should use more of this cash to increase your dividend and buy back stock. I¬†think you should do this over time, though, rather than in a big one-time gift.¬† If you do it over time, in the form of increased quarterly dividends and buy-back programs, you can change this use of cash if the circumstances merit. And you will be rewarding the shareholders who, like you, are around for the long haul. If you do it all in one shot, however, the cash will be gone. And I don't need to tell you that, if you do it in one shot, investors like Carl Icahn will also soon be gone.¬† In short, as an Apple shareholder, I would much rather have you keep your $150 billion of cash, skip the financial engineering, resist the relentless short-term greed of Wall Street, and focus on what you do best: Building great products. If you do that, over the long haul, your stock price will take care of itself. Sincerely, Henry Blodget
1200 people were fired today in Bank of America's¬†¬†legacy mortgage group and home loans fulfillment unit, with more to come this quarter, the Wall Street Journal reported. The cuts come as the bank is experiencing a drop in¬†refinancing and its delinquent loan portfolio.¬† The employees that are being cut were brought on to deal with the high volume of delinquent loans BofA was saddled with from its acquisition of the failing sub-prime loan originator, Countrywide Financial.  Bank of America was recently found liable fraud related to the defective mortgages sold by Countrywide Financial.¬†The cuts will include full time employees and contractors.¬† "As we continue to resolve the needs of customers with delinquent loans, we are reducing the size of the operations that support these specialized programs," a Bank of America spokesman said, according to the Wall Street Journal. "Additionally, in line with the industry, we are realigning our cost structure in response to lower customer demand for mortgage refinancing."
Two weeks ago, Eugene Fama, Lars Hansen and Robert Shiller were awarded the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for their contributions to "Trendspotting in Asset Markets." Since then, some thinkers have questioned whether economics deserves to be called a "science". Here is a round-up of their arguments: Liam Halligan (Telegraph UK): "Time to stop this pretence ñ economics is not science"  "Economics is a study of human behaviour ñ above all, the allocation of scarce resources between competing ends. It requires the analysis of economic, commercial and financial life in all its institutional richness, or it is nothing. A solid grounding in theory and numeracy is essential but so, too, are broad dashes of politics, history, sociology and common sense. Recent ìNobelî recipients have been rewarded, instead, for work that claims to have established ìcertaintiesî, made ìfindingsî and discovered ìrelationshipsî ñ all of which, when it comes to economics, is bunkum." Raj Chetty (New York Times): "Yes, Economics Is a Science" "Consider the politically charged question of whether extending unemployment benefits increases unemployment rates by reducing workersí incentives to return to work. Nearly a dozen economic studies have analyzed this question by comparing unemployment rates in states that have extended unemployment benefits with those in states that do not. These studies approximate medical experiments in which some groups receive a treatment ó in this case, extended unemployment benefits ó while ìcontrolî groups donít." Paul Krugman (New York Times)- "Maybe Economics Is A Science, But Many Economists Are Not Scientists" Whoever can put an end to this debate may or may not deserve a Nobel Prize.
REUTERS/Chip EastThis morning Carl Icahn demanded that Apple commence buying back $150 billion worth of stock immediately at $525, this afternoon he was on CNBC's Halftime Report talking about his letter to Apple CEO Tim Cook. Icahn told host Scott Wapner that he thinks Apple's stock would still be attractive at $550 or $575, but he hasn't run the numbers for that. "The obvious thing would be for the company to use its $150 billion to buy the stock back... you don't keep $150 billion around," he said. He also reiterated the fact that Apple should be borrowing right now, and that he plans to (but will not guarantee that) he'll buy more stock. The board, as Icahn's said before, is not doing their job while management is fine. In his letter to Cook, Icahn did address the fact that this buy back would be huge ó historic. So Scott Wapner addressed that. Icahn's response: It's all relative and a company of Apple's size can handle it. For now, he said he's judging how shareholders feel. Some have expressed support for the buy back, and if the time comes he'll gauge their sentiment for a proxy fight. "I don't know what it means one of the most valuable companies on the planet. Tsarist Russia was one of the biggest countries on the planet and looked how people lived there... maybe that's not a great analogy," he said, again blaming the board's negligence for his desire to act. "We've done well because we've gotten boards to change things... This board is not above reproach." Wapner then asked him: "Do you think you could win a proxy fight?" Icahn responded "... we'll test the waters... we've said we're not going away." He also added that he's tired of hearing from everyone about "what Steve Jobs would've done... it's ludicrous!," said. "He [Jobs] may have been a businessman but he wasn't a finance guy." Now on to that tweet from Bill Gross this morning, slamming Icahn and saying he should help people. "Bill Gross certainly has a right to his opinion..." said Icahn. Wapner broke in that Warren Buffett has been supportive of Apple's board as well. To that Icahn replied that "Theodore Roosevelt took on the monopolies... the whole establishment. If you listen to history, and you listen to the establishment and what they say, we would have a lot of problems... The fact that these men say that, I have to say that respect everyone you just mentioned, but I don't think they're right." He added that the reason this country has problems with entitlements and more is because companies are not run properly. Wapner then circled back to Apple pointing out that shareholders are already getting paid ó so shouldn't the company work on great products? "It's ludicrous," said Icahn, "for a company like Apple to say they need $150 billion sitting in a bank in Europe to do innovation... It's absurd to say Apple would have to use $150 billion for something." On his new website, Shareholder's Square Table, Icahn said: "Some men have died fighting tyranny, the least we could do is vote against it." Now onto Netflix: Wapner asked Icahn if he was worried about CEO Reed Hastings saying that momentum investors were driving up the stock. Was that what drove him to cut his stake in half this month? In short, Icahn said no. "It's sort of an Icahn rule, when you make 5x your money, it doesn't mean you're not a long termer... you take some chips off the table... The model of Netflix is an excellent one and it's very hard to compete. When David and Brett brought it to me it took me 20 minutes to say, this is going to be one of greats of all time." He also said Brett (his son) and David (Brett's investing partner) love Apple. Toward the end of the interview, Wapner touched on Herbalife. Things have changed with the stock, he said, since Ackman restructured his position. The story's over, no? Icahn said "I'm not going to get into a personal thing with Ackman. That's over... I read the report (Ackman's) in 3-4 hours... You read that report, you realize what hogwash it was... All you had to do was call an SEC lawyer who looked at it and said... 'this was complete nonsense..." To close, Icahn said Tim Cook will call him after Apple earnings on the 28th to set up another meeting, "I hope that will happen."
TwistImageWe've received emails from a few different Wall Street bond trading desks this morning about a new report from Medley Global Advisors arguing that at its September FOMC meeting, the Federal Reserve made it much more difficult to justify tapering its quantitative easing program going forward. In the report ó titled "Fed: Ctrl-Alt-Delete" ó Medley analysts†Regina Schleiger and Jeremy Torobin write that, "more than simply standing pat, the Federal Open Market Committee has effectively hit the reset button and is back where it was six months ago ó at the very start of a long process of building the case for a downward adjustment to the Large-Scale Asset Purchase program." Schleiger and Torobin continue: Moreover, that eventuality is now a riskier proposition (and, consequently, the process of getting back to within striking distance is more difficult) because of troubling signs that economic momentum is slowing. The potential costs to financial stability of continuing purchases at the current $85-billion per month may, down the road, start flashing red and embolden FOMC hawks to push for an aggressive conclusion of the program. But right now the potential costs of withdrawing even the slightest bit of support from the economy appear much greater than they were. In other words, for proponents of asset purchases, the cost-versus-efficacy calculation that figures into their votes each meeting is now chiefly about assessing the impact of slowing purchases, rather than of continuing them. This week's non-farm payrolls report from September merely underscored a weakening trend that was already underway when FOMC members met last month and decided against tapering. That sluggishness surely carried over (and probably accelerated) into October thanks to the 16-day government shutdown, and it validates the committee's skittishness about whether the economy could withstand another spike in mortgage rates. Indeed, the National Association of Realtors' latest reading of US existing-home sales, reported†on Monday, brought more evidence of a cooler housing sector. The FOMC holds its next policy meeting next week. Almost everyone says there is virtually zero chances of the Fed announcing the beginning of tapering at that meeting. Schleiger and Torobin obviously agree. "The FOMC's†October 29-30†gathering in Washington will almost certainly produce a status-quo decision," say the Medley analysts. "Three weeks later, the published minutes from that meeting may reveal little more than a policy committee essentially paralyzed pending sufficient data that is not contaminated or muddied by the shutdown to gauge whether September and October will be remembered as another brief 'soft patch' or something worse." In short, the Fed may have missed its chance. "The witch's brew of a labor market that was weaker even before the shutdown and debt-ceiling drama, growth that has disappointed and which was supposed to be accelerating already, and price gains so persistently meager that disinflation could soon take on a central role in the FOMC conversation, mean the bar for any change is higher than it has been for some time," concludes the report.
Reuters/PoolMartha MoxleyA judge has ordered a new trial in the bizarre case of a nephew of Ethel Kennedy who was convicted in 2002 of bludgeoning a neighbor to death when they were both teenagers in 1975. Connecticut judge Thomas A. Bishop wrote a 136-page opinion criticizing the lawyer who represented Michael Skakel in the case, which accused him of killing¬† 15-year-old Martha Moxley in wealthy Greenwich, Conn. "The defense of a serious felony prosecution requires attention to detail, an energetic investigation and a coherent plan of defense ...," the judge wrote. "Trial counsel's failures in each of these areas were significant and, ultimately, fatal to a constitutionally adequate defense." The strange case against Skakel had no physical evidence and went unsolved for two decades, as the judge noted. Skakel's life of privilege was interrupted in 2000, when he was charged in the horrific murder at the age of 39. In 1975, Moxley was killed just outside her family's house with a 6-iron golf club owned by Michael Skakel's mother Anne Reynolds Skakel. He and his brother Thomas were both suspects in the case, as was a tutor who lived with the Skakels. Nobody was arrested after the 1975 murder, though, and the case went cold for decades. The case started to heat up again in 1998, after former LAPD detective Mark Fuhrman wrote a book called "Murder in Greenwich: Who Killed Martha Moxley?" Fuhrman theorized that Michael Skakel killed Moxley after he saw her kiss his brother. That same year, the state attorney in Bridgeport, Conn. convened a grand jury to see if there was enough evidence to prosecute any of the suspects, according to The Times. Skakel ‚Äî who had worked with his cousin at a company called Citizens Energy Corporation and as a professional speed skier ‚Äî was convicted of murder in 2002 despite a lack of physical evidence. The Times reported that the jury heard evidence that he had unrequited romantic feelings for Moxley and access to the weapon used to kill her. Associated Press/Steve MillerMichael Skakel arriving at the Greenwich police department to turn himself in. The jury also heard Skakel's admission that he'd climbed a tree in the Moxleys' backyard to try to get a glimpse of the girl and masturbate on the night she was murdered. The damning story put him at the murder scene the night Moxley was killed. A witness who attended Elan, a school for troubled youth in Maine, with Skakel also testified he heard him confess to murder. That witness, Gregory Coleman, reportedly told authorities that Skakel had said, "I'm going to get away with murder. I'm a Kennedy." Coleman may not have been the most reliable witness, though. He died from tainted heroin in 2011, The New York Times reported. In his lengthy opinion issued Wednesday, Judge Bishop cited a number of failures on the part of Skakel's attorney Michael Sherman. Those missteps included his failure to present testimony from a man named Dennis Ossorio, an independent witness who could have testified that Skakel was at a cousin's house watching "Monty Python's Flying Circus" when the murder took place. "It would be an understatement to say that the state did not possess overwhelming evidence of [Skakel's] guilt," the judge wrote.
(AP Photo/Paul Sakuma)Business school interviews are a different breed. You need to not only prove why you belong at the institution, but also showcase what you‚Äôll do with the degree once you re-enter the workforce. It‚Äôs essentially a school interview and a job interview all wrapped up in one discussion. As such, you‚Äôll need to prepare a robust strategy. Here are nine expert tips to keep in mind. Recognize that it‚Äôs a business: MBA programs that are considered desirable are measured on the jobs that students take after graduating, said Roy Cohen, a career coach and author of The Wall Street Professional‚Äôs Survival Guide. When you are being interviewed, you are being assessed for your ability to land a high-paying job. You‚Äôll need to showcase how your prior experience ‚Äì combined with an MBA degree ‚Äì will give you the leverage to land a specific job, he said. ‚ÄúIf someone says I want to work for a hedge fund, and they‚Äôre currently working in the corporate retail program at Macy‚Äôs, good luck,‚Äù Cohen said. ‚ÄúSchools may disqualify people who need too much work for repackaging and re purposing.‚Äù Your story ‚Äì or end goal ‚Äì needs to make sense with your prior experience, at least in the eyes of the beholder. ‚ÄúIn the simplest terms, you want to connect the dots for the admissions committee: Your pre-MBA experience + your MBA at their school = reasonably likely to achieve your well-defined post-MBA goal,‚Äù said Wendy Flynn, founder of MBA admissions consulting firm,¬†MBA Admissions Coach. Answer questions‚Ä¶and more: You need to respond to what they ask, but then use it as a platform to convey your added value as a student, says Dan Bauer, CEO and founder of business school admissions consulting firm¬†MBA Exchange. Allow them to ‚Äòcheck the box‚Äô with your answer, then begin to differentiate yourself. Banish nerves through preparation:¬†Your resume and application got you in the door, but it‚Äôs your ability to communicate that will get you an admissions offer. ‚ÄúNothing is more damaging to an MBA applicant than nervous interview behavior,‚Äù said Flynn. Extensive preparation ‚Äì including mock interviews ‚Äì is the easiest way to refine your answers to be more natural.¬†Flynn suggests interviewing on video so that you can go back and review your performance and identify ways to improve your delivery. Check the pipe dream at the door: As mentioned above, schools want to admit ‚Äòhire-able‚Äô candidates. Coming in with a practical post-graduate goal that is not overly ambitious can help seal the deal in the minds of admissions staffer, said Cohen. ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt come in with a pipe dream without a defensible strategy,‚Äù Cohen said. ‚ÄúThey may be humored by it, but it may not lead to admission.‚Äù And remember: the goal is to get admitted. What you end up doing with your degree after graduation is entirely up to you.
JP Morgan's twitter handle is awesome at #ThrowbackThursday ‚Äî they always tweet out historical artifacts from the bank's history. Today it's a 1925 letter from Winston Churchill to the bank, asking for a line of credit for England. The print's tiny, but it reads: I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of toady's date stating the terms on which you are prepared to arrange a Revolving Credit of $100,000,000 for two years from the commencing date as mentioned therein. I accept the proposal as set forth in that letter subject to the passing of the required legislation by Parliament before which the necessary Bill is being laid forth. Yours faithfully, Winston Churchill Check it out below. #ThrowbackThursday: Have a look at this 1925 letter from Winston Churchill accepting a credit line from $JPM #tbt pic.twitter.com/J7kWS38W8C
Any debate about debts and deficits becomes much more robust when the numbers are considered relative to the size of the economy. "Under Obama, the deficit is falling from 10% of GDP to just 3%," tweeted MSNBC's Ari Melber. "But only 6% of America knows it. There's often a misconception that a democratic President would be more likely to raise these ratios by promoting big government. But the reality is quite the opposite. As you can see from this chart from Deutsche Bank's David Bianco, Obama has been one of the most effective presidents in American history to reduce deficit levels. On a related note, the latest jobs report showed that Obama continues to be a destroyer of government jobs. US Treasury, BEA, Deutsche Bank
San Francisco FedGeographic distribution of Federal Reserve districts.The results¬†of the Kansas City Federal Reserve's monthly survey of regional manufacturing activity are out. The headline index unexpectedly rose to 6 from September's 2 reading. Economists expected no change. In September,¬†the¬†index unexpectedly plummeted to 2¬†from August's 8 reading. The Kansas City Fed survey polls manufacturers across Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Colorado, Wyoming, northern New Mexico, and western Missouri on business conditions. Below are comments from survey respondents: Click here for the full release ¬ª
LONDON (Reuters) - Airbus is poised to review its A380 superjumbo after a slump in orders and has not ruled out shaving output of the world's largest jetliner while waiting for the economy to come to its rescue. Despite aggressive marketing, sales of the 525-seat double-decker are running at idle as in tough times many airlines are focusing on narrower, lighter, two-engine models, including Airbus's own A350. U.S. rival Boeing &lt;BA.N&gt; said last week that it was cutting production of the latest version of its 747 jumbo, while nearing a decision to launch a 406-seat version of its 777 twinjet. Airbus has not booked a firm A380 order this year but has taken three cancellations. It has sold a total of 259. Its sales chief is confident Airbus will sign a number of deals in the next two months to avoid ending the year with more cancellations than orders - an embarrassment for an aircraft hailed as a European wonder when it was unveiled in 2005. But in its factories, Airbus is approaching a crunch point despite the jet's popularity with passengers after six years. The immediate worry is that gaps in the production line for 2015 will force airbus to build jets it hasn't been able to sell - known as "white tails" - tying up cash in planes worth $400 million each at list prices, most of which is paid on delivery. Time to avert the problem is running out because parts like metal forgings have to be ordered up to two years ahead. Amid such concerns, Airbus is likely to take the opportunity to "review the situation and strategy" for the A380 at the end of the year, said an industry source who asked not to be named. Options include trimming production below the targeted 30 a year, taking a less pro-active stance on the jet and mainly producing what has been sold, and reviving plans to upgrade it beyond the end of the decade. Airbus declined to comment on any review, but ruled out straining its resources by building an unwanted jet. "Regarding 2015, we have a few slots at the end of the year and we still work to try to fill them," said Tom Williams, executive vice president for programs at the planemaker. "Clearly we would want to keep A380 production around 30 aircraft per year as we have stated many times; however, we will never build ëwhite tails'. We are pragmatic and we will adapt production rates and our cost structure in line with demand: small variations are not a crisis." Analysts say that depending on its magnitude, a cut would be scrutinized for any impact on Airbus's target to break even on the A380 in 2015, though most investors are focused on the A350. Nick Cunningham of Agency Partners said Airbus may be forced to lower A380 costs more quickly than planned if it still wanted the jetliner to break even in 2015 while also cutting output. One way of easing pressure would be to bring forward planes scheduled for later delivery, though superjumbo production is significantly less flexible than on smaller jets. Williams said Airbus would look at making "small advancements" if needed. Airbus boasted the A380 would reshape aviation when it was launched in 2001, offering new comforts and lower operating costs. It sees a total market for 1,711 very large jets over the next 20 years, much higher than Boeing's forecast of 760. But the A380's birth was beset by technical and management rows, and sales fell abruptly when the discovery of wing cracks in 2011 hit momentum. Germany's Lufthansa &lt;LHAG.DE&gt; recently reduced its A380 order by three as it bought smaller planes. But so far, some of the superjumbo's largest customers are not worried. "For me, there will always be a market for a 500-plus seater," said Tim Clark, president of Dubai's Emirates. The airline has ordered a total of 90 A380s and does not see the arrival of slightly smaller twinjets - such as the Boeing 777X that it also plans to add to its fleet - as a threat. "As the economy returns to a degree of normality, as it will, history tells us the rebound will be a lot faster and more aggressive than in previous decades, and this time next year we could be having a different discussion," Clark said. In June, Airbus announced a marketing partnership with Doric Lease Corp, which provisionally ordered 20 A380s and is expected to finalize as early as next month. The same group is already a major A380 investor through financing deals with Emirates. "The slow period of sales coincided with the great recession. I am aware of airlines that were going to take the aircraft but didn't because of the global economic slowdown," said Doric Lease Corp Chief Executive Mark Lapidus. "I would say this is now changing because growth is coming back. We are now in a growth mode, not in a survival mode," he said, adding the group was talking to several airlines and sees "significantly more orders for the plane in the next 12 months". Slow sales are not the only headache, however. Analysts say the quality of the undelivered backlog has also deteriorated. Airbus's 148 remaining undelivered orders for A380 include up to around 30 aircraft that analysts say may not get delivered, notably five for grounded Indian airline Kingfisher. Others include 10 for Hong Kong Airlines, which faces Chinese divisions over the jet, and six for Virgin Atlantic, which has negotiated cancellation rights. The backlog is also increasingly dominated by one customer, Emirates, which makes up a third - and well above 40 percent if you exclude those orders considered least likely to be fulfilled by other airlines, according to a Reuters analysis. That comes as a mixed blessing for airline CEO Tim Clark, who says he is surprised more airlines had not ordered the jet. "The last thing we want is to see the A380 marginalized," he told Reuters. It may, however, give the Dubai carrier a significant say in how the A380 will evolve, particularly whether the world's biggest passenger jet will get even bigger. "We have always been an advocate of stretching the airplane," Clark told Reuters. "We have 37 in operation today, and on most routes a bigger plane would work quite nicely." Airbus shelved its original plans for a second A380 version with 100 more seats when it became clear that the aircraft was not selling as quickly as it would have liked. But now, engine makers are bringing out new products to power Boeing's revamped 777 and the competing Airbus A350-1000, meaning some of the development needed to re-engine and potentially expand the A380 has potentially already been done. Some 60 years after the jet age began, reviving such a move could bring the world closer to an eye-popping 1,000-seat megajumbo if others opted to fill it with all-economy seats. The current model is certified to hold 853 people in such a layout. "We are not in any rush to make any decisions to change the design of the A380, and there is no such decision," said Airbus's Williams. Even so, industry sources said Airbus and some suppliers had begun to think about what capital, engineering resources and facilities may be needed. Airbus has also started sounding out engine makers on what they could provide next decade. "I think the A380 will get stretched; exactly when depends in part on how successful we are," said Lapidus, referring to Doric's joint marketing drive with Airbus. "If we are very successful, it will happen sooner rather than later ... Imagine in a number of years that Airbus is approaching 500 orders for the A380: at that point the market will say very loudly to Airbus, you have to make that 650-700 seater aircraft." (Editing by Will Waterman)
IISH/Stefan R. Landsberger Collections via ChinesePosters.NetOn Wednesday, some suggested markets had taken a hit based on some bad news out of China. But should they be concerned? Bank of America's Ting Lu lays out the four concerns and points out why they aren't as worrisome as markets think. What investors should take note of however is that with economic indicators suggesting that growth is stabilizing the government is shifting their focus back to risk management, according to Societe Generale's Wei Yao.¬† The government announced a property tightening policy on Wednesday¬† and withdrew almost 100 billion yuan in the past two weeks. "The leadership still intends to develer the economy, which is the main reason behind our call that the secular deceleration trend is far from over," said Yao.
Vanity Fair takes a peek behind the storied walls of 740 Park Avenue in the latest video in its "Eminent Domains" series on New York real estate. The Upper East Side building, which has been home to icons from industrial tycoon John D. Rockefeller to real estate developer William Lie Zeckendorf to fashion designer Vera Wang, is considered to the "the most powerful building in New York City." According to the video, apartment applicants allegedly must show $100 million in liquid net worth, or "cash on hand." 
REUTERS/John Gress It was a good run. But America has probably reached peak hog productivity, according to a new report from the USDA.¬† "The era of dramatic productivity growth in hog production from 1992 to 2009 will likely remain unmatched, absent significant technological innovation," agricultural economists William McBride and Nigely Key write in¬†"U.S. Hog Production From 1992 to 2009: Technology, Restructuring, and Productivity Growth." The great productivity era was really good for consumers, helping keep retail prices flat in the face of rising feed costs. USDA It was also good for big ag, as exports increased to 17% of production by 2009 from 3% in 1992. But the gains came at some environmental cost, as higher concentrations of manure meant greater amounts of¬†nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, flowed into ground and surface water. (At the same time, increased productivity meant fewer resources were needed.) And it also meant a decline in small farms. Anyway, there are two reasons why it's going to be pretty difficult to match the gains of that period, Key and McBride write: "First, the gains from exploiting scale economies are nearly exhausted, as most hog production now takes place at a size where returns to scale are nearly constant. "Second, the measurable technological and organizational innovations contributing to productivity growth (e.g., confinement housing, production contracts, artificial insemination...) are now widely diffused."¬† What happens next? Productivity will remain subject to volatile commodities prices, which will have the effect of further squeezing out smaller operations.¬†
SHOTS FIRED: Apparently PIMCO's Bill Gross does not like Carl Icahn's strategy to get more "value" for shareholders from an Apple share buy back. Maybe ó hopefully ó Icahn will adress this Tweet on CNBC'S Fast Money Halftime Report at 12:00 pm today. Gross: Icahn should leave #Apple alone &amp; spend more time like Bill Gates. If #Icahnís so smart, use it to help people not yourself.
REUTERS/ Pascal LauenerGoldman Sachs Chairman and CEO Lloyd BlankfeinIt's about that time of year again when some college seniors start interviewing for jobs in finance. The interview process on Wall Street is known for being extremely nerve-wracking.¬† We've heard all the interview horror stories and we've seen those lists of the incredibly challenging questions that get asked. Fortunately, Goldman Sachs has an excellent Careers Blog on its website, which features a bunch of great interviewing tips. We've compiled them in the slides that follow to help you ace your next interview.¬†
MarkitMarkit just released the preliminary results of its October Purchasing Manager Index survey, which showed a significant slowdown in the pace of expansion in American manufacturing this month. The most notable result of the survey was that manufacturing output actually contracted this month for the first time since 2009 after a strong expansion in September. And the culprit was all domestic demand, according to survey respondents. "A number of manufacturers linked lower levels of output to a weaker trend for new orders," said Markit in the release. "Incoming new work increased modestly in October, but at the slowest rate in six months. The easing in the rate of total new order growth¬†generally reflected weaker domestic demand,¬†according to panellists." Backing claims that lackluster domestic demand was driving the slowdown was the fact that new export orders actually rose in October after falling in September. Most economists are quick to dismiss the effects of the shutdown on the economy, but Markit's flash PMI survey results may suggest otherwise. "The flash PMI provides the first insight into how business fared against the backdrop of the government shutdown in October, and suggests that the disruptions and uncertainty caused by the crisis hit companies hard," said Markit chief economist Chris Williamson. "The survey showed the first fall in manufacturing output since the height of the global financial crisis back in September 2009. We can expect GDP growth to have suffered a set-back in the fourth quarter, but it is too early to estimate the extent of the slowdown." BofA Merrill Lynch economists¬†slashed their Q3 and Q4 GDP growth forecasts during the government shutdown. When it was finally lifted ‚Äî at least until January 15, when warring parties in Washington will spar over the budget again ‚Äî BAML downgraded its Q1 2014 GDP growth forecast as well. In a note to clients, BAML economist Ethan Harris wrote: As we have noted before, the shutdown has made the economic and Fed outlook much more uncertain. Prior to the shutdown, the economy seemed to be still stuck at 2% growth, but with hope of stronger growth ahead. The shutdown caused both an austerity shock ‚Äî cuts in government spending ‚Äî and an uncertainty shock. The shutdown has hurt sentiment a lot, pushing many survey measures lower. Looking ahead, the issue now is does sentiment quickly go back to pre-crisis levels or does it linger lower? The latter is likely if people worry about a sequence of shutdowns. Hence we need to wait for post-crisis survey data to get a clear sense of the lasting damage. Given release lags, it will take even longer to judge the impact on hard data. Today's flash PMI release is the first post-shutdown survey. The University of Michigan will release the results of its October consumer confidence survey Friday morning. Wall Street economists predict the headline index in the Michigan report will fall to 75.0 from September's 77.5 reading. Preliminary survey results released earlier this month suggested a drop to 75.2.
flickr/paral_lax "The link between redheads and stock markets, which started in 2007 with the threat of extinction for each, continues to this day."óNick ColasConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas calls the bear case for U.S. stocks "at best, a selective assessment of the facts." "It leverages the fact that everyone knows stocks can go down 40% because, well, they have in very recent memory," he writes in his daily note to clients. "The short story always sounds smarter than the long case, simply because most people fear loss a lot more than they value gain." Colas is optimistic on the stock market ó at least for now. "Put aside the ghost stories, at least for the remainder of 2013 ñ thereís one more rally left in global equities, led by U.S. stocks," he says. In the note, he outlines the bullish case for U.S. stocks: U.S. public companies are currently printing record profits as they report Q3 2013. With just over 25% of the S&amp;P 500 on the books, earnings for the index look to be about $26.72, just higher than last quarterís record of $26.36. Which is turn was higher than Q1 2013ís record of $25.77. Record levels for the S&amp;P 500, record earnings. Stock discount earnings, and earnings are currently good. What exactly is hard to understand about that relationship? The pace of corporate earnings has been remarkably consistent for the last three years. The last time the S&amp;P 500 printed a quarterly earnings number below $20/share was Q2 2010 ñ over three years ago. So against a tepid U.S. recovery, a lousy economy in Europe, a slowing Chinese economy, and who knows what going on in the emerging markets, U.S. corporate earnings have baselined at $80/share for the S&amp;P 500. Against any other period of economic history, those would be called ìTroughî earnings by cyclical analysts. And awarded a 20x multiple, or 1,600 on the S&amp;P ñ which is pretty close to where we are now. Now, you might argue that the Fedís extraordinary liquidity measures have artificially boosted demand, but thereís precious little proof of that. Revenues are essentially flat, about where you would expect to see them with the 150,000-200,000 monthly gains in jobs weíve seen in the U.S. over the past two years. Inflation isnít muddying the waters here either, unless you have to pay for a childís college education or health care for a family member. Auto demand is back to ìNormalî levels ñ in line with scrap rates ñ and the housing market is back to where it was in 2005/2006, despite close to decade of population growth. Colas thinks corporate earnings are just too good for investors to "walk away from an investment class that is clearly working." "I very much doubt the bear case for stocks will make itself plain in 2013," he writes. "Could there be a huge selloff in 2014? Sure. It will not, however, come from a well-known and broadly understood vector such as Federal Reserve monetary policy. And it will have to be a series of events which break the ability of U.S. corporates to earn strong profits in weak economic times." "Until then, however, this red-headed bull market will very likely live on, disrespected but resilient," says Colas. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale strategists disagree. The SocGen asset allocation team†predicts the S&amp;P 500 will fall by around 15%†when the Federal Reserve winds down its quantitative easing program, then go nowhere for years. The bank is calling for clients to rotate out of U.S. stocks and into European and Japanese equities, which they believe will assume leadership in the global rally going forward. Click here to see the argument for European stocks vis-a-vis U.S. equities in 12 charts ª
Yesterday Carl Icahn tweeted that he sent a letter to Tim Cook, and would put it on a new website he was launching called Shareholder's Square Table. Now the site is live and the letter has been posted. Unfortunately, the site is also crashing a bit so we're having issues logging in to see his letter (very popular obviously), so we had to head to Street Insider to get a copy. In a nutshell ó Icahn wants Apple to commence a tender offer for $150 billion in stock at Apple's current price ASAP. He also upped his stake in the company from 4 million to around 4.7 million shares. Here's the letter: Dear Tim: It was a pleasure meeting you for dinner at the end of September. When we met, my affiliates and I owned 3,875,063 shares of Apple. As of this morning, we owned 4,730,739 shares of Apple, an increase of 22% in position size, reflecting our belief the market continues to dramatically undervalue the company, even when taking into account the recent market appreciation, which in turn makes our proposal unchanged with respect to a $150 Billion buyback. We were pleased to hear at our dinner that you appreciated our input and that you would speak to us again in three weeks to continue the dialogue. In anticipation of doing so soon, we aim to reiterate in this letter the point of view already expressed to you directly with the hope of effectively summarizing it for the companyís board of directors and our fellow shareholders. From our perspective, Apple is the worldís greatest consumer product innovator and has one of the strongest and most respected brand names in history. We consider Apple to be our most compelling investment. I first informed my followers on Twitter on August 13, 2013 of my ìlarge position.î I also expressed to you my opinion that ìa larger buyback should be done now.î At that time, we owned 3,448,663 shares and the stock price was $467. Since then we have purchased an incremental 1,282,076 shares (bringing the total value of my position to $2.5 Billion) and we currently intend to buy more. We want to be very clear that we could not be more supportive of you, the existing management team, the culture at Apple and the innovative spirit it engenders. The criticism we have as shareholders has nothing to do with your management leadership or operational strategy. Our criticism relates to one thing only: the size and timeframe of Appleís buyback program. It is obvious to us that it should be much bigger and immediate. When we met, you agreed with us that the shares are undervalued. In our view, irrational undervaluation as dramatic as this is often a short term anomaly. The timing for a larger buyback is still ripe, but the opportunity will not last forever. While the boardís actions to date ($60 billion share repurchase over three years) may seem like a large buyback, it is simply not large enough given that Apple currently holds $147 billion of cash on its balance sheet, and that it will generate $51 billion of EBIT next year (Wall Street consensus forecast). The S&amp;P 500 trades at roughly 14x forward earnings. After backing off net cash, Apple trades at just 9x (not factoring into account that the company has a significantly lower cash tax rate than the rate Wall Street analysts use). This discount (cash adjusted) becomes even more compelling given our confidence that Apple will grow earnings per share at a rate well in excess of the S&amp;P 500 for the foreseeable future. With such an enormous valuation gap and such a massive amount of cash on the balance sheet, we find it difficult to imagine why the board would not move more aggressively to buy back stock by immediately announcing a $150 Billion tender offer (financed with debt or a mix of debt and cash on the balance sheet). While this would certainly be unprecedented because of its size, it is actually appropriate and manageable relative to the size and financial strength of your company. Apple generates more than enough cash flow to service this amount of debt and has $147 billion of cash in the bank. As we proposed at our dinner, if the company decided to borrow the full $150 billion at a 3% interest rate to commence a tender at $525 per share, the result would be an immediate 33% boost to earnings per share, translating into a 33% increase in the value of the shares, which significantly assumes no multiple expansion. Longer term (in three years) if you execute this buyback as proposed, we expect the share price to appreciate to $1,250, assuming the market rewards EBIT growth of 7.5% per year with a more normal market multiple of 11x EBIT. It is our belief that a companyís board has a responsibility to recognize opportunities to increase shareholder value, which includes allocating capital to execute large and well-timed buybacks. Appleís Board of Directors does not currently include an individual with a track record as an investment professional. In my opinion, any further delay in executing the buyback we hereby propose will reflect this lack of expertise on the board. My firmís success and my expertise as an investor would be difficult for anyone to argue. Per my investment thesis, commencing this buyback immediately would ultimately result in further stock appreciation of 140% for the shareholders who choose not to sell into the proposed tender offer. Furthermore, to invalidate any possible criticism that I would not stand by this thesis in terms of its long term benefit to shareholders, I hereby agree to withhold my shares from the proposed $150 Billion tender offer. There is nothing short term about my intentions here. Sincerely, Also here's a screenshot of what it looks like.                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Carl Icahn                                            Apple                                            Tim Cook                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                        _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r-bmc', container:'taboola-bmc', placement:'bmc'});                                                                                            Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						3																								All Comments						30									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Here's Carl Icahn's Letter To Tim Cook Saying He Wants Apple To Buy Back $150 Billion In Stock Immediately    Here's Carl Icahn's Letter To Tim Cook Saying He Wants Apple To Buy Back $150 Billion In Stock Immediately        Shareholder's Square Table.
MarkitThe preliminary results of Markit's October Purchasing Manager Index survey were worse than expected. The headline index fell to 51.1 from September's 52.8 reading, marking the lowest level in a year. Economists predicted a smaller drop to 52.5. Any reading above 50 indicates expansion, whereas sub-50 readings indicate contraction ‚Äî so today's report suggests the pace of expansion in American manufacturing slowed significantly in October. The table at right shows changes in the various sub-components of the report. Most notably, the output sub-index plummeted to 49.5 from 55.3, marking the first contraction in manufacturing output since September 2009. The new orders sub-index fell to 51.6 from 53.2, the weakest reading in 6 months. "A number of manufacturers linked lower levels of output to a weaker trend for new orders," said Markit in the release. "Incoming new work increased modestly in October, but at the slowest rate in six months. The easing in the rate of total new order growth¬†generally reflected weaker domestic demand, according to panellists." Backing claims that lackluster domestic demand was driving the slowdown was the fact that the new export orders sub-index rose to 50.7 in October from 49.0, suggesting an improving picture overseas. Click here for the full release ¬ª
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid A screen displays JP Morgan Chase & Co. at the post that the stock is traded at on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, October 21, 2013.(Reuters) - At least nine banks face probes by the U.S. Department of Justice into their sales of mortgage-backed securities as part of an effort by the task force that reached the $13 billion agreement with JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt;, the Financial Times reported. Citing people familiar with the matter, the newspaper said the banks include Bank of America Corp &lt;BAC.N&gt;, Citigroup Inc &lt;C.N&gt;, Credit Suisse Group &lt;CSGN.VX&gt;, Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;, Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt;, Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;, Royal Bank of Scotland &lt;RBS.L&gt;, UBS &lt;UBSN.VX&gt;, and Wells Fargo &amp; Co &lt;WFC.N&gt;. Document requests and discussions between the banks and government have picked up recently after Eric Holder, the U.S. attorney-general, indicated publicly that more mortgage-backed security lawsuits were coming by the end of the year, the FT said. Most of the probes are looking for civil violations for allegedly misleading buyers of residential mortgage-backed security, not criminal sanctions, the paper said. Morgan Stanley faces a civil investigation by the Northern District of California and state attorneys, while RBS is under investigation by the US attorney's office in Massachusetts, the FT said. (http://link.reuters.com/tyb24v) Credit Suisse faces separate probes by Colorado and New Jersey, the paper added. Prosecutors in Brooklyn and Colorado are investigating Citigroup, and UBS, Deutsche Bank and Wells Fargo are under investigation by other US attorneys' offices, it said. JPMorgan has reached a tentative $13 billion deal with the U.S. Justice Department and other government agencies to settle investigations into bad mortgage loans the bank sold to investors before the financial crisis. (Reporting by Chandni Doulatramani in Bangalore; Editing by Edwina Gibbs)
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithWeekly jobless claims figures are out. Initial claims fell to 350,000 in the week ended October 19 from an upward-revised 362,000 in the previous week. Economists predicted a larger drop to 340,000. Continuing claims fell to 2.874 million in the week ended October 12 from an upward-revised 2.882 million in the previous week. "Applications in California remained elevated and analysts weren't able to determine how many non-federal workers filed due to the government shutdown, a Labor Department spokesman said as the figures were released to the press," reports Bloomberg's Michelle Jamrisko. "Firings may gradually diminish as a backlog of claims processing in California and the end to the closure of government offices push and pull on the figures." Last week, the Labor Department attributed elevated levels of initial claims to technical issues, but the fiscal crisis was said to play a role as well. Both S&amp;P 500 and 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are down slightly immediately following the release. This weekly economic datapoint offering a high-frequency look at the labor market remains of central importance to investors. Global macro trader and author of Behavioral Macro Mark Dow considers it "the most important chart in the world." "Whether the U.S. recovery gets to a self-reinforcing stage continues to hinge on the health of the job market more than any other factor," says Dow. "The time series of jobless claims, imperfect though it may be, is still the best gauge of this factor."
APThe containership "Zim Antwerp I" anchored at the Tollerort Container Terminal in the port of Hamburg, northern Germany, on Aug. 29, 2002. German authorities impounded the ship saying it was sailing for an Israeli shipping company under a Panamanian flag and carried military equipment said to be headed for Iran. Customs officials said the two containers would be sent back to Israel as German law forbids the export of military equipment to Iran.America's trade deficit widened less than expected. The gap grew to $38.8 billion, versus $39.4 billion expected.† Prior reading was revised to $38.6 billion. "The upbeat survey evidence points to a pick-up on the growth rates of both exports and imports over the next few months, although the overall trade deficit should remain broadly unchanged, particularly if the most recent drop back in crude oil prices is sustained," Capital Economics commented. † The YOY balance has been slowly improving since 2012: Econoday Click here for updates ª

REUTERS/David Gray A female Rural Fire Service (RFS) firefighter walks through a burnt area after trying to extinguish a small fire approaching homes near the Blue Mountains suburb of Blackheath, located around 70 km (43 miles) west of Sydney, October 23, 2013. Good morning! Here's what you nee t to know.
FordFord Motor has released third-quarter earnings results. The Detroit auto maker reported earnings per share of $0.45, above expectations for $0.37. However, it missed sales estimates, reporting $33.9 billion in revenues versus the $34.1 billion estimate. The company raised its 2013 operating margin forecast, while narrowing its forecast for losses in the European auto market this year. "We are on track for another strong year in 2013," said Ford CEO Alan Mulally in a press release. "Our One Ford plan continues to deliver profitable growth for all of our stakeholders." Shares are more than 3% higher in pre-market trading. Below is the full text of the release: Ford Motor Company [NYSE: F] delivered record third quarter 2013 pre-tax profit¬†of $2.6¬†billion, reflecting continued strong performance in North America and a combined profit from the regions outside North America. In addition, Ford Credit remained solidly profitable. Total company third quarter pre-tax profit of $2.6 billion was $426 million higher than a year ago. Third quarter earnings per share of 45 cents was 5 cents per share higher than a year ago. Net income for the third quarter of $1.3¬†billion, or 31¬†cents per share, was down $359 million, or 10 cents per share, compared with a year ago due to pre-tax special item charges of $498 million. Special item charges included $250¬†million for separation-related actions, primarily in Europe to support the company's transformation plan, and $145 million associated with Ford's U.S. salaried retiree voluntary lump sum payout program as part of the company's pension de-risking strategy. Automotive operating-related cash flow was $1.6 billion, a third quarter record, marking the 14th consecutive quarter of positive performance. The company ended the third quarter with strong liquidity of $37.5 billion, an increase of $400 million compared with the end of the second quarter of 2013. "Ford's record results in the third quarter show the strength of our One Ford plan around the world," said Alan Mulally, Ford president and CEO. "Working together, we remain committed to serving customers in all markets with a full family of vehicles, offering the very best quality, fuel efficiency, safety, smart design and value." During the quarter, Ford contributed $1.1 billion to its global funded pension plans, which included about $700¬†million of discretionary payments to its U.S. funded plans as part of the company's pension de-risking strategy. In the third quarter, the company settled about $700 million of pension obligations related to its U.S. salaried retiree voluntary lump sum program, and has settled $3.4 billion since the program began in August 2012. The lump sum program is about 80 percent complete and concludes at the end of the year. Dividends paid in the third quarter totaled about $400 million. Total Automotive third quarter wholesale volume and revenue were up strongly from a year ago. The higher volume reflects higher market share in all regions, improved industry volumes in all regions except South America and favorable changes in dealer stocks in all regions. The growth in revenue primarily reflects higher volume, as well as net pricing gains in all regions. Third quarter operating margin, at 7 percent, was seven-tenths of a percentage point better than a year ago. First nine months volume and revenue were higher than a year ago by 14 percent and 13 percent, respectively. "North America continues to achieve strong profits and we saw significantly improved results outside North America," said Bob Shanks, executive vice president and chief financial officer. "We substantially reduced our losses in Europe, set a record third quarter profit in Asia Pacific Africa and saw a $150 million improvement in South America." For the sixth time in the last seven quarters, North America achieved a pre-tax profit of $2 billion or more and an operating margin of 10 percent or more. Third quarter pre-tax profit was about equal to last year's record profit. Favorable market factors ‚Äî volume and mix and net pricing ‚Äî were offset, for the most part, by higher costs, including investment in new products. Third quarter results were driven by a strong industry and a robust full-size pickup segment, along with Ford's strong product lineup, U.S. market share growth, continued discipline in matching production to real demand and a lean cost structure ‚Äî even as the company invests more in product and capacity for future growth. Wholesale volume and revenue increased 13 percent and 12 percent, respectively, from a year ago. The volume improvement mainly reflects higher U.S. industry sales, favorable changes in dealer stocks and higher U.S. market share. Higher volume drove the revenue increase. In the first nine months of the year, North America's operating margin was 10.7¬†percent, five-tenths of a percentage point lower than a year ago, while pre-tax profit was about $7 billion, up about $600 million. Wholesale volume and revenue both improved 15¬†percent compared with 2012. For full year 2013, Ford's guidance for North America remains unchanged. The company continues to expect higher pre-tax profit compared with 2012 and operating margin of about 10¬†percent.¬† South America continues to execute the company's strategy of expanding its product lineup, while progressively replacing legacy products with global One Ford offerings. The company's new products continue to perform well. Customer response to the Ranger pickup and refreshed Fiesta remains strong, and EcoSport and Fusion continue to be segment leaders. South America's pre-tax profit of $159 million in the third quarter was $150 million higher compared with the prior year. Market factors more than explain the improvement. Wholesale volume and revenue increased strongly from a year ago, both up 22 percent. The higher volume reflects increased market share and favorable changes in dealer stocks. The growth in revenue was driven by the higher volume and net pricing gains, offset partially by unfavorable exchange. South America's first nine months volume, revenue, operating margin and profit all improved from a year ago.¬† The overall environment in South America remains uncertain, but given the company's performance in the first nine months, Ford now expects South America to be about breakeven to profitable for the full year. This is an improvement from prior guidance of about breakeven. In the third quarter 2013, Europe remained on track in executing its transformation plan. Europe's third quarter pre-tax loss of $228 million was $240 million better than a year ago, with all factors favorable, except costs associated with restructuring. Europe's results have improved sequentially in each quarter this year. In the third quarter, wholesale volume and revenue improved from a year ago by 5 percent and 12 percent, respectively, the second consecutive quarter of year-over-year top-line improvement. The volume increase reflects higher industry sales, lower dealer stock reductions than a year ago and higher market share. The increase in Europe's revenue mainly reflects the higher volume. Europe's operating margin for the first nine months was negative 5 percent and the pre-tax loss was $1 billion, both about equal to a year ago, despite about $400 million of restructuring costs incurred this year and lower industry volume. Volume and revenue were up slightly from a year ago. The company now expects its full year loss in Europe to be less than 2012. This is an improvement from prior guidance of a loss about the same as a year ago, reflecting the progress the company is making on its Europe transformation plan.¬† Ford's strategy in Asia Pacific Africa is to grow aggressively with an expanding portfolio of global One Ford products tailored for the region and with manufacturing hubs in China, India and ASEAN. Implementation of this strategy continues to gain momentum.¬† In the third quarter, Asia Pacific Africa reported its fifth consecutive quarterly profit with pre-tax results of $126¬†million, an improvement of $81 million compared with a year ago. Third quarter results reflect favorable top-line factors, offset partially by higher costs, as the company continues to invest for further growth. In the third quarter, wholesale volume was up 35 percent from a year ago, and revenue, which excludes the company's China joint ventures, grew 7 percent. The higher volume reflects mainly improved market share, with higher industry volume and favorable changes in dealer stock also contributing. Higher revenue primarily reflects favorable volume and mix. Asia Pacific Africa's third quarter market share was 3.7 percent, six-tenths of a percentage point higher than a year ago and a quarterly record. The improvement was driven by China, where Ford's market share improved eight-tenths of a percentage point to equal last quarter's record of 4.3 percent, reflecting mainly strong sales of the Kuga, EcoSport and Focus. For the first nine months, volume, revenue, operating margin and profit all improved from a year ago. Ford's guidance for Asia Pacific Africa is unchanged. The region is expected to be profitable for the full year. The third quarter loss of $139 million in Other Automotive reflects net interest expense, offset partially by a favorable fair market value adjustment on the company's investment in Mazda. For the full year, Ford now expects net interest expense to be at the lower end of its prior guidance of $800¬†million to $850 million. In the third quarter, Ford produced about 1.5 million units, or 187,000 higher than in the third quarter of 2012, reflecting higher volumes in all regions. In the fourth quarter, Ford expects total company production will be about 1.6 million units, 102,000 units higher than a year ago. This includes a reduction of 15,000 units from the company's prior guidance for North America. Ford Credit's third quarter profit of $427 million improved $34 million from a year ago, more than explained by higher volume in North America. The drivers of higher volume were an increase in leasing, reflecting changes in Ford's marketing programs, as well as higher non-consumer finance receivables due to higher dealer stocks. Ford Credit remains key to Ford's global growth strategy, providing world-class dealer and customer financial services, maintaining a strong balance sheet, and producing solid profits and distributions. For full year 2013, Ford Credit continues to expect pre-tax profit to be about equal to 2012. Ford Credit now expects year-end managed receivables of about $100 billion, which is within the prior range of $97 billion to $102 billion, and¬† distributions of about $400¬†million, up from $200 million previously planned, reflecting a fourth quarter reduction in Ford Credit's tax liability. The third quarter loss of $64 million for Other Financial Services primarily reflects charges related to the sale of a portfolio of finance receivables that was not included in the company's sale of the Volvo auto business in 2010. The company's third quarter operating effective tax rate was about 33 percent. The company now expects its full year operating effective tax rate to be less than 30 percent, compared with 32¬†percent last year. This reflects a year-to-date tax rate of about 31 percent and a fourth quarter reduction in Ford Credit's tax liability. Ford remains focused on delivering the key aspects of its One Ford plan, which are unchanged: "We are on track for another strong year in 2013," Mulally said. "Our One Ford plan continues to deliver profitable growth for all of our stakeholders." Click here for the full release ¬ª
Barry Ritholtz of Ritholtz Wealth Management just tweeted this chart, which is from Moody's. The chart shows the impact of government spending cuts on economic growth over the past few years. As you can see, these cuts have created a severe drag that has slowed down the growth of the economy. Moody's Now, you can argue that government spending is too high and, therefore, that we have to go through this painful austerity period of cuts before we can get everything ship-shape again. And you can argue that we simply can't keep borrowing more money to fund spending we can't afford. (Many people will disagree with you on this and point out that the deficit as a percent of GDP has dropped radically this year, but you can still argue it.) But you can't argue that government spending cuts help economic growth. Because they don't. As the chart above shows, government spending cuts hurt economic growth.
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithInstitutional investors and all-cash buyers are driving the housing market.¬† Institutional investors accounted for 14% of all sales in September, according to RealtyTrac's latest residential &amp; foreclosure sales report. This is up from 9% in August, and 9% a year ago.¬† In metros with a¬† population of 1 million or more, Atlanta had the highest percentage of institutional investor purchases at 29%. Las Vegas, St. Louis, Jacksonville, and Charlotte rounded off the top five.¬† Meanwhile, all-cash purchases represented 49% of all residential sales, up from 40% in August, and 30% a year ago. "The housing market continues to skew in favor of investors, particularly deep-pocketed institutional investors, and other buyers paying with cash," Daren Blomquist, vice president at RealtyTrac said in a press release. "While the institutional investors are pulling back their purchases in many of the higher-priced markets ‚Äî places like San Francisco, Washington, D.C., New York, Seattle and Sacramento ‚Äî they are continuing to ramp up purchases in markets where median prices are still below $200,000 ‚Äî places like Jacksonville, Atlanta, Charlotte, St. Louis and Dallas." Miami saw the highest percentage of all-cash sales at 69%. Tampa, Jacksonville and Orlando also saw a surge in all-cash sales. Last month we spoke to a couple in Florida that had lost out to all-cash offers. Outside of Florida, Las Vegas also saw a high percentage of all-cash sales at 62%. RealtyTrac Institutional investor purchases also increased in states with higher distressed inventory. "Institutional investor purchases have rebounded in Las Vegas corresponding to a recent rebound in foreclosure activity there," said Blomquist.
jpereira_net / FlickrBANGALORE (Reuters) - India's ailing economy is likely to remain under pressure from weak domestic and foreign demand for some time, while uncertainty ahead of elections next year is expected to keep investors and businesses at bay, according to a Reuters poll. The poll of 24 economists showed gross domestic product (GDP) will grow 4.7 percent in the fiscal ending next March after expanding 5 percent in the previous year, which was the weakest since 2002/03. That consensus marks a sixth consecutive downgrade for this fiscal year, and is well below 5.6 percent seen in the last poll in July. Although the forecasted rate is better than that of many economies around the world, it is a far cry from the almost double-digit growth seen in recent years. "Fundamentally India is not in a bad place but it's surrounded by the worst kind of risks emerging at the same time," said Vishnu Varathan, an economist at Mizuho Bank in Singapore. Similar to the poll, the World Bank sharply lowered its forecast for Asia's third-largest economy to 4.7 percent from 6.1 percent for the current fiscal year, citing a slowdown in manufacturing and investment. Private surveys show new business is drying up, underlining the lack of momentum in the economy, which grew at its weakest quarterly pace in over four years in the first three months of the current fiscal year. "There aren't too many growth catalysts present at the moment. Consumption is slowing and investment spending has slowed significantly in the past several quarters," said Radhika Rao, an economist at DBS in Singapore. ELECTION RISKS Upcoming general elections, due by next May, are compounding uncertainties. Both the ruling Congress party and the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are expected to fall short of a majority. That means India may be heading for a coalition dependent on regional parties, which could spook investors further as regional leaders often hold policy hostage to their local agendas. Indeed, the inability of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's government to push through pending reforms on political gridlock has weighed heavily on investments and business confidence. "We are hoping that investments are not held back from now until the elections but in some degrees it is happening," said Mizuho's Varathan. "Investors remain quite wary about where to place their chips, so on that note I don't think it is going to be a stellar pick up this year or early next year, either," he added. Weak public finances have also constrained the option of pump-priming the economy and weighed on the rupee currency, which lost nearly 20 percent at one stage this year and hit a series of record lows. India's high current account deficit has made it vulnerable to a surge in capital outflows from emerging markets and that is expected to weigh on the rupee in the coming year. However, the poll showed the current account deficit is expected to ease a little to 3.7 percent for this fiscal year and the next. Earlier this month, Finance Minister P. Chidambaram told Reuters that he will not allow the fiscal deficit to exceed 4.8 percent of GDP, underlining that an austerity drive will not be blown off course by the elections. Eight of 10 economists agreed that the government will not exceed its planned market borrowing. Wholesale prices - India's key inflation gauge - are forecast to average 6 percent for this fiscal year and next, remaining stubbornly above the central bank's perceived comfort level of 5 percent. That would prevent the Reserve Bank of India from taking any measures to shore up the economy. The central bank surprised markets in September by hiking the repo rate by 25 basis points (bps) to 7.50 percent to signal its resolve in trying to control rising prices. Economists expect a further 25 bps hike by the end of December. (Polling by Hari Kishan; Editing by Kim Coghill)
And it‚Äôs not all state and local. No, he is an equal opportunity government job killer. And with the exception of the Census hiring (which wasn‚Äôt really his decision to begin with) and a brief stint in 2009, government employment growth has been negative through his entire term.
REUTERS/Susana VeraTraders talk at the Madrid stock exchange.Markets are up modestly across Europe. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.2%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.1%. Germany's DAX is up 0.4%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.1%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.3%. These gains follow reports that the Euro Zone is still growing and China's manufacturing sector is accelerating. U.S. futures are also pointing higher. Later today, we'll get the latest weekly readings of initial unemployment claim and job openings.
Markit / @WilliamsonChrisAccording to the Flash, or preliminary, readings of the purchasing managers indexes (PMI), Europe is growing, albeit at a decelerating pace. France's composite PMI slipped to 50.1 in October from 50.5 in September. From Markit senior economist Jack Kennedy: "The French private sector economy delivered a flat performance at the start of Q4, as a slower fall in manufacturing output offset a softer showing from the service sector. Although new business slipped ack into contraction, stabilising employment and improved service sector business expectations provide some signs of encouragement as we move towards the end of the year." Germany's composite PMI fell to 52.6 from 53.2. From Markit's Tim Moore: "Germanyís private sector started the final quarter of 2013 in a positive fashion as manufacturing and service sector output levels both increased from† those seen during September. A slower rate of expansion in services activity meant that overall growth eased slightly from the trend recorded over the third quarter. "However, the stronger manufacturing out turn† during October is a signal that the Germanyís resilient economic performance has continued this autumn, while sustained gains in new orders suggest that private sector companies will remain on a growth footing in the months ahead." Eurozone's composite PMI declined to 51.5 from 52.2. From Markit's Chris Williamson: The dip in the PMI in October is clearly disappointing, but it would be unwise to read too much into one monthís data. Itís too early to say that the recovery is losing momentum. More important is that the survey data have been running in positive territory for four consecutive months now and indicate that the Eurozone economy expanded at a quarterly rate of 0.2% at the start of the fourth quarter, suggesting an ongoing, albeit sluggish, recovery. ìAlthough modest, the expansion is reassuringly broad-based across the region, reflecting signs of economic recoveries becoming more entrenched in the periphery as well as ongoing expansion in Germany and stabilisation in France. ìThe dip in the PMI will remind policymakers that a sustainable upturn is by no means assured, and adds confirmation to the ECBís view that the recovery is slow, uneven and fragile. Attention is likely to be focused on whether the region requires more policy action to boost the recovery rather than on the timing of any withdrawal of stimulus. All of this follows news that China's manufacturing sector accelerated sharply in October.
REUTERS/David GrayA waiter holds a drinks tray in a make-shift hotel lobby during the official launch of InterContinental Hotels Group's (IHG) new hotel brand called Hualuxe Hotels and Resorts, held inside the Forbidden City in Beijing March 19, 2012.When President Obama signed into law a last minute deal to raise the debt ceiling and end the government shutdown, he only really bought the country a few months before the same problems would resurface. "Investors typically do not like uncertainty and it is hard to determine how these recent almost non-decisions can be seen as reinvigorating confidence aside from some relief that an imminent likely disaster has been avoided," said Citi's Tobias Levokovich. "Nonetheless, one cannot respectably believe that things truly have turned for the better as opposed to averting the worst. The long-term growth of non-discretionary government spending can still prove to be an overwhelming liability and it has not been the primary focus for legislators." However, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco optimistic about the near-term. "We were disappointed with the mere stopgap fiscal deal reached this week, which may cap the S&amp;P at 1800 until resolved, but profits trump politics and China trumps Congress," wrote Bianco in a note to clients this week. "3Q EPS and China's momentum justify 1800 soon." Business Insider recently asked Bianco for what he considered to be the most important chart in the world. He actually sent us two slides. The first slide was this interesting set of four charts showing that U.S. manufacturing activity is more sensitive to China than America's booming housing and auto industries. "Even as housing starts and auto sales were ramping up, manufacturing slowed and came to a standstill," said Bianco. "This can be explained by slowing in China. China's demand for capital goods should accelerate as urban living standards improve." China's capex boom has long been central to Bianco's bullish U.S. stock market thesis. "China still needs more airplanes, trucks, engines, climate control and automation," he said earlier this year. Business Insider Bianco also sent us this next chart which is somewhat related. "Strong investment spending is what drives S&amp;P 500 sales and non-financial profits," he said. "The whole debate about the S&amp;P is about when this turns back up again.î The manufacturing boom driven by China's capex spending could very well reignite capex in the U.S. Business Insider / Deutsche Bank
