Yesterday we mentioned how the smog in Shanghai was so bad, it was looking like the end of the world. By all accounts today is also terrible, which of course produces some absurd images of the sun.       
AP ImagesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. James Montier: The Golden Rule Of Investing (GMO)  "The golden rule of investing: no asset (or strategy) is so good that you should invest irrespective of the price paid," writes GMO's James Montier in a new White Paper. "If when buying a house the mantra is 'location, location, location,' when thinking about any investment (be it an asset or a strategy), the equivalent refrain should be 'valuation, valuation, valuation.' We would argue that one of the myths perpetuated by our industry is that there are lots of ways to generate good long-run real returns, but we believe there is really only one: buying cheap assets." Shiller: People Make Better Decisions With Financial Advisors (Investment News) "People make better decisions with financial advisors," Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller said during a conference hosted by the National Association of Personal Financial Advisors (NAPFA) and Forbes, reports Liz Skinner at Investment News. Shiller also said that people should have access to financial advice through a Medicaid-type approach if they can't afford it. The Overall Municipal Market Is Still Sound (Vanguard)  Historically Treasuries have yielded more than Munis but that relationship has reversed more recently, according to Vanguard. "The turmoil started with the 2008ñ2009 financial crisis and continued amid dire headlines about state and local finances." "Through June, July, and August, a time when investor concerns mounted over Detroitís bankruptcy filing and the financial health of Puerto Rico, 10-year municipal yields averaged about 12% more than 10-year Treasuries. By the end of October, the gap had closed somewhat, but 10-year muni yields were still averaging about 8% more. Over the past decade, however, muni yields have averaged 5% less than their Treasury equivalents." Investors should not be swayed by this says Vanguard which thinks the muni market is still "sound." Munis have a tax-favored status and Vanguard argues that investors should determine if they want muni holdings in their portfolio based on their "long-term goals, risk tolerance and tax considerations." 3 Factors Make Us Optimistic About Investing In Asia (Investment Adventures In Emerging Markets)  While many investors are getting antsy about investing in Asian emerging markets, Mark Mobius says there are three key reasons he continues to be optimistic on the region. 1. "When compared with developed markets generally, Asiaís emerging markets have had higher rates of historic economic growth, and growth expectations for the year ahead are generally higher as well." 2. "The high level of foreign reserves we generally find in emerging markets in Asia, which exceeds developed markets in general." 3. "Debt levels in Asian emerging markets are much lower than those in developed markets." The 'Circle Of Competence' Theory Will Help You Make Vastly Smarter Decisions (Farnam Street) Warren Buffett has long used the concept of the "Circle of Competence" to urge investors to focus on areas they know best. "What an investor needs is the ability to correctly evaluate selected businesses," he wrote in a 1996 shareholder letter. "Note that word ìselectedî: You donít have to be an expert on every company, or even many. You only have to be able to evaluate companies within your circle of competence. The size of that circle is not very important; knowing its boundaries, however, is vital." Even if investors don't understand the detailed workings of a company if they can define areas of expertise the can stick to it and over time expand out. And this applies outside the world of investing and to broader success in life. Farnam Street
APNelson Mandela and wife Winnie, walking hand in hand, raise clenched fists upon his release from Victor prison, Cape Town, Sunday, February 11, 1990.  Nelson Mandela has died today at the age of 95, according to South African President Jacob Zuma. His death marks the final chapter in a life that changed South Africa forever. The former South African president had been suffering from a recurring lung infection, and the Daily Telegraph reports that his friends and family had gathered at his bed today. Zuma announced his death in a televised address to the nation, telling mourners that Mandela, often affectionately referred to by his¬†Xhosa clan name "Madiba," had passed away at 8:50 p.m. local time. "Our nation has lost its greatest son, yet what made Nelson Mandela great was precisely what made him human," Zuma said. "We saw in him what we seek in ourselves, and in him we saw so much of ourselves." Mandela's struggle was one of the defining stories of the 20th century. Trained as a lawyer, he became involved in politics after 1948 as South Africa moved into a system of racial apartheid. While initially espousing non-violent protests with the African National Congress (ANC), he eventually founded a militant organization and was behind a bombing campaign in the early 1960s. He was arrested and sentenced to life in prison in 1962. Initially imprisoned in a 8-foot by 7-foot concrete cell with only a straw mat on which to sleep, Mandela's imprisonment soon became an international cause. He was eventually released on Feb. 2, 1990 after intervention by President F. W. de Klerk. Mandela became president of the ANC in 1991, and was elected president of South Africa in May 1994, a position in which he remained until 1999. During his time in office he led the dismantling of the apartheid system, for which he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993. Mandela is survived by his wife, Gra√ßa Machel; six children; and 17 grandchildren. Mandela had been sick for a long time. Earlier this year, South Africa's Sunday Times ran a story on Mandela's illness under the headline "It's time to let him go." AP
Business InsiderA fit with a companyís culture is of huge importance to an individualís success. But the interview process is a bit like speed-dating, with only superficial impressions possible during such a compressed time frame, and everyone on their best behavior. And, on perhaps the most important single measure for an individual ó the value a company places on its people ó reading corporate value statements doesnít help much. I donít believe there is any company out there that says, ìWe view our people as a bunch of cogs in a wheel. Work harder and quit complaining.î From my experience, the relevant insight on this front can be gleaned from one simple observation: how senior people at the company treat individuals who leave / are asked to leave, how they show them the door, and how they talk about them when they are gone. Do they hire and fire people with great speed? Do they staff up and then staff down, or are they more thoughtful in how they deploy people? And how do they treat individuals they let go? True story: I know of a senior executive whose company tracked him down to fire him while he was on vacation with his family, giving him less than an hour before he was to announce it to his team. Thatís right: a senior executive. A guy who had been there for years. A guy who had had a string of perfectly good performance reports. A guy who had stuck with the company during the financial downturn. And a guy who was let go because they were eliminating his role, not because he stole things or was caught breaking company rules. Does it sound like this company ìvalues its people?î Here actions spoke louder than the corporate motto. Indeed, the other components of the Value Statement, along the lines of the oft-cited ìputting customers at the center of all we do,î "inclusiveness" and ìtaking prudent risksî rang a bit less true to the employees of his department... While this is an extreme case, in some companies, as soon as an employee leaves, he or she quickly goes from being a ìvalued partnerî to the one who ìnever really cut it,î who ìnever really fit in,î whom the company is ìbetter off withoutî and ìthe guy we were about to fire anywayî in the blink of an eye. (Rookie manager alert: this is really, really easy to fall into, the first time you lose an employee to a competitor. Donít go there.) Others ó think McKinsey ó employ an ìup or outî culture, but help their departing executives find roles at other companies. Their former partners are ìalumni,î not ìthe guys who failed.î Implicitly, perhaps, they recognized the positive reinforcing power of a strong network long before many others did. Thus they cultivate that ìalumni networkî by keeping in touch with its members and bringing them back together for events and education. This respect translates into significant business sent to McKinsey by its ìalumsî and immeasurable amounts of good will. While the financial returns on culture can be impossible to quantify, this is one area in which they are most certainly positive. What To Do If You Didn't Get The Job Do You Have The Quality Of Keeping People Together? How To Turn A Good Career Into A Great Career
REUTERS/Regis DuvignauJanick Fetard, zoo keeper, gives a cricket to a tamarin monkey at the family-owned Palmyre Zoo in the 18 hectares (44 acres) pine forest of Les Mathes, in the Charente Maritime region, western France, November 20, 2013.Stocks closed in the red for the fifth straight trading session. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
You know what they say ‚Äî if you owe the bank $1,000 the bank owns you. If you owe the bank a million dollars you own the bank. Now turn that million dollars into billions, and make that bank thousands of investors, at least one very powerful sovereign wealth fund, and an entire country. Put all that together and you have former Brazilian billionaire tycoon Eike Batista's situation. After losing $2 million a day last year and having a $37-billion-dollar fortune evaporate before his eyes, after the bankruptcy of his flagship oil and gas company OGX (with its sister shipbuilding company OSX likely to follow)], after the sale of many assets/controlling stakes in the companies he built, Eike Batista is still asking investors for money to rebuild his empire. And they are giving it to him. Bloomberg reports that OGX creditors have agreed to give Batista $200 million so that he can continue developing the oil fields that, in part, were the start of his woes. Last year it became clear that Batista's fields would not produce the volume of oil expected. Batista's stock plummeted 90%. Bondholders, like PIMCO, didn't get paid in October. OGX went bankrupt. Even before OGX was officially in the hole, Batista was asking creditors for around $250 million to keep the company afloat through April. Now he's got some of that, and he can use that money to start work at the¬†Tubarao Martelo offshore field. It may hold as many as 108.5 million barrels of oil.  So Batista has that cash, and he's got a little debt relief from creditors too. Mubadala, Abu Dhabi's sovereign wealth fund, has taken a 25% haircut on Batista's debt, taking it from $2.3 billion to around $1.6 or $1.7 billion. Back in the spring of 2012, the fund made a deal to provide Batista with $2 billion, the details of which are still mostly unknown. Meanwhile as goes Batista, so goes Brazil. The erstwhile billionaire's six companies ‚Äî OGX, MPX, LLX, MMX, OSX and CCX ‚Äî all held together under EBX, were once powerhouses on the Brazilian stock exchange, the Ibovespa. However, as of Aug. 1, the six companies have lost a combined $9.7 billion in 2013. All 300 publicly traded companies in Brazil have lost $203 billion in the same period. Three of Batista's companies ‚Äî OGX, LLX, and MMX ‚Äî have been among the 10 biggest losers in the Ibovespa Sao Paolo Stock Exchange Index. And MMX, an iron ore company, has contributed to the Ibovespa's most recent malaise. This week the exchange sank lower than any other in the world. Its loss was prompted by sinking shares in Petrobras, Brazil's state oil company (paging Jim Chanos) and MMX's earnings, which posted wider losses than analysts expected. So it isn't just Batista who's hoping a cash injection will revitalize his empire, it's all of Brazil as well.
Wikimedia Commons/ Cynthia van ElkHeleen MeesDutch economist Heleen Mees was arrested back in July for allegedly stalking and harassing Citigroup's chief economist Willem Buiter. Mees, a former NYU economics professor, has been accused of sending Buiter ó her ex-lover of four years ó racy pictures and thousands of messages over a two-year period. †She was also accused of contacting him after a cease-and-desist letter was filed in late February. According to the original complaint, which has been viewed by Business Insider, Buiter said that Mees allegedly emailed messages to him such as "What can I do to make it right? Shall I lick your b---s?", "Shall we adopt a child?" "Ugly wife building" and "Hope your plane falls out of the sky." †The complaint says that she emailed him photos of dead birds. †It also states that she also allegedly sent pictures of other women naked and pictures of herself masturbating.† Buiter is the man who†coined the term "Grexit"†during the Greece debt crisis and he's well-known for his work on sovereign debt. †He†is married†to Anne Sibert, who is also an economist.† Mees' attorney, Ira London, filed a document this week supporting his attempt to dismiss the criminal charges. † According to the filing, which has been reviewed by Business Insider, London says that Mees has no prior criminal record and an "upstanding" reputation as an economist. London claims that after Buiter's lawyer signed a cease-and-desist order this year that he attempted to contact her via Skype and LinkedIn.†In the filing, London included a screenshot of attempted Skype requests from Buiter to Mees between June 19 to June 23, days before she was arrested. †London claims that Buiter also†attempted to connect with her on LinkedIn on August 7, 2013. †A judge scolded Buiter in court that month for his LinkedIn request to Mees, according to the Daily Mail. BloombergCiti's Willem Buiter"Mr. Buiter's conduct demonstrates a lack of respect for the law and the criminal justice system of the United States (not to mention the feelings of Ms. Mees)," London wrote in the filing this week. †"Another possible explanation is that Mr. Buiter himself is still deeply conflicted about his feelings for Ms. Mees, with whom he had a romantic affair for over four years. However, criminal charges against Ms. Mees are not the appropriate manner to address this, and matters such as this are not productive of the court's time." † Also in the filing this week are some email exchanges and Skype conversations between the two economists. †Many of the conversations were in Dutch and have been translated into English.† We've included some examples below:† We reached out to Buiter and his attorney for comment and will update as warranted. A spokeswoman for Citigroup told us they decline to comment on personal matters of their employees. Motion filed by Ira D. London According to London, Buiter and Mees spent "dozens, if not hundreds, of hours" each year on Skype and would engage in "Skype sex." †Mees' attorney claims that Buiter would masturbate in front of the camera. He claims that they had Skype sex during this conversation when Buiter was in Warsaw, Poland. ††† Motion filed by Ira D. London  Court paper filed by London D. Ira Motion filed by Ira D. London  As for the dead birds Buiter says Mees sent him, Mees' attorney says they were the creation of the female artist friend his client slept with.† Motion filed by Ira D. London  Mees' attorney says that Buiter reached out to the female artist friend via email about viewing some of her works while he was traveling in Amsterdam.† Motion filed by Ira D. London   Here's the original complaint: Original Complaint Against Heleen Mees  Here's the document filed by Mees' attorney this week: Reply To Response To Motion to Dismiss 
Google ImagesCalifornia hasn't seen an oil boom in more than a century. This September, California legislators passed a law that paves the way for continued fracking activity in the state's Monterey shale formation, which the EIA says could contain oil reserves four times larger than North Dakota's Bakken. But it seems safe to say that at this point, the bill was mostly symbolic.† At a recent breakfast, David Howard, an analyst at Calgary-based energy research firm ITG, said oil companies were still "very far" away from tapping the vast reserve. In a follow-up email, Howard told Business Insider: "...It is not a focus right now. The market has moved away from really paying attention California unconventional and I follow the market." There are several reasons why this is so. The Monterey's geology is extremely complex. The basin is sandwiched between mountains with high degree of structural deformity and is next door to the active San Andreas fault. Once you get past the structural complexity the rock offers many other challenges as it is very thick and has a high degree of biogenic silica which creates a very hard and very tight rock.† Howard says it may be possible for drillers to overcome this, but the timeline will be long. The EIA's estimate has also come in for criticism. Despite its passage, the fracking bill approved in Sacramento also contains elements that could slow down activity. A specific permit must be obtained if a company plans to use hydraulic fracturing in their drilling. Once a driller has notified residents they plan to frack, the residents living next to a site can†ask for their water to tested, and the driller must pick up the tab, according to KCET. The bill also mandated the state perform an independent study of the environmental impact of fracking.  "In the success case the regulatory framework could be a choke point to a rapid increase in activity," Howard said. The real indicator of a play's potential, Howard says, is the presence of independent operators. And right now there are almost none in the Monterey ó they're all too focused on all the country's bother booming plays.  "The limited number of independent operators active in the basin is likely to lengthen any growth/innovation cycle", he said.  Indeed, among companies' quarterly earnings calls, the Monterey has only come up eight times this year and 21 times since 2008,†according to Seeking Alpha. Compare that with†more than 1,500 times†since 2008 for the Bakken.†Although oil majors like Occidental are already drilling the Monterey, it takes a swarm of smaller companies to start a boom, and they're not interested. †
Joel Waldfogel, an economist at the University of Pennsylvania, has taken up the economic inefficiency of gift giving as a personal cause. By "inefficiency," he means the gap between the value to you (maybe very little) of the $120 argyle sweater your aunt gave you for your birthday, and the value of what you would have bought (an iPod, say) had she given you the cash. In 1993, Waldfogel drew attention to the epidemic of squandered utility associated with holiday gift giving in an article called "The Deadweight Loss of Christmas." He updated and elaborated the theme in a recent book¬†Scroogenomics: Why You Shouldn‚Äôt Buy Presents for the Holidays: The bottom line is that when other people do our shopping, for clothes or music or whatever, it‚Äôs pretty unlikely that they‚Äôll choose as well as we would have chosen for ourselves. We can expect their choices, no matter how well intentioned, to miss the mark. Relative to how much satisfaction their expenditures could have given us, their choices destroy value. Applying standard market reasoning, Waldfogel concludes that it would be better, in most cases, to give cash: "Economic theory‚Äîand common sense‚Äîlead us to expect that buying stuff for ourselves will create more satisfaction, per euro, dollar, or shekel spent, than does buying stuff for others . . . Buying gifts typically destroys value and can only, in the unlikely best special case, be as good as giving cash." Waldfogel‚Äôs¬†conclusion: "We value items we receive as gifts 20 percent less, per dollar spent, than items we buy for ourselves." If gift giving is so massively wasteful why does it persist? It isn‚Äôt easy to answer this question within standard economic assumptions. In his economics textbook, Gregory Mankiw tries gamely to do so. He begins by observing that "gift giving is a strange custom" but concludes that it‚Äôs generally a bad idea to give your boyfriend or girlfriend cash instead of a birthday present. But Why? Mankiw‚Äôs explanation is that gift giving is a mode of "signaling," an economist‚Äôs term for using markets to overcome "information asymmetries." So, for example, a firm with a good product buys expensive advertising not only to persuade customers directly but also to ‚Äúsignal‚Äù to them that it is confident enough in the quality of its product to undertake a costly advertising campaign. In a similar way, Mankiw suggests, gift giving serves a signaling function. A man contemplating a gift for his girlfriend "has private information that the girlfriend would like to know: Does he really love her? Choosing a good gift for her is a signal of his love." Since it takes time and effort to look for a gift, choosing an apt one is a way for him "to convey the private information of his love for her." Why thoughtfulness matters: "Signaling" love is not the same as expressing it. To speak of signaling wrongly assumes that love is a piece of private information that one party reports to the other. If this were the case, then cash would work as well‚Äîthe higher the payment, the stronger the signal, and the greater (presumably) the love. But love is not only, or mainly, matter of private information. It is a way of being with and responding to another person. Giving, especially attentive giving, can be an expression of it. On the expressive account, a good gift not only aims to please, in the sense of satisfying the consumer preferences of the recipient. It also engages and connects with the recipient, in a way that reflects a certain intimacy.
Google FinanceA stronger-than-expected GDP report and a lower-than-expected tally of initial unemployment insurance claims has everyone feeling better about the economy today. However, these new stats are likely to increase the odds that the Federal Reserve will taper its quantitative easing program sooner than later. This may explain why markets pulled back after the two economic reports earlier this morning. And this afternoon, markets are really tumbling. The Dow is down 69 points and the S&amp;P is down 8 points, which reflect declines of 0.4%. Negative close would reflect the fifth straight day of losses in the market. "The key risks to markets are US growth being too strong (leading to earlier-than- expected tapering), China growth surprising on the downside, too much corporate spending (bad for margins and depreciation charges) and a European political event," said Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite earlier this week.
Video screengrab/AllThingsDEvan Spiegel, CEO of SnapchatThe sleuths at VC Experts, a site that tracks the financial information of private companies, have done it again. They uncovered a new regulatory filing that shows Snapchat is about to raise a hefty investment which is far, far less than the $200 million they were rumored to be seeking. There isn't enough evidence to prove Snapchat sold all the shares they've authorized. But if they have, the company would be valued at about $2 billion, says VC Expert's Justin Byers. That's less then the rumored $3 billion or $4 billion bandied about in the press.  "We pulled their most recent restated certificate of incorporation filed just a few weeks ago 11/26/2013, and it shows that they have authorized a new Series C Preferred for approx. $54,542,880 (1,600,000 shares @ $34.0893 per share)," Byers told Business Insider. This could mean that the founders are looking to cash out some of their equity, he speculated. This filing is a new round since a its huge $60 million raise from June 2013, which at that time gave it an $800 million valuation.¬† Two-year-old Snapchat has raised $73 million to date, according to its CrunchBase profile. The company, as been making headlines lately for reportedly turning down a $3 billion acquisition offer from Facebook and is rumored to have also turned down $4 billion from Google. The currentinvestment round, if it happens, puts it about halfway toward these speculative valuations of the company, and it hasn't even developed a revenue model yet. However, it looks to be on its way with that. It just hired a new COO, Emily White, who was leading from Facebook's advertising efforts on Instagram. We reached out to Snapchat for comment and will update when we hear back. Here's the juicy part of the new regulatory filing: 
This specific group of investors threw $3.5 billion at Lampert in 2007. Back then Sears was trading at $120 a share, now it's around $50. Horrible news for ESL, Lampert's hedge fund, which started getting these redemption requests last year as the fund's five-year lock-up period was about to expire. From The WSJ: Most of those funds have been getting paid out this year, including through the distribution of stock in some of his other investments, though some money is scheduled to be paid out later. Without the money raised through Goldman, more than $2.5 billion in outside investor money remains in Mr. Lampert's hedge-fund firm, ESL Investments Inc., the people said... Their exits largely return Mr. Lampert's investor base to what it was before Goldman's raise: a core group of wealthy, individual investors who have profited handsomely by investing with the former Goldman trader over many years. ESL Investments has annualized returns of more than 20% a year for 20 years, according to a person familiar with the firm, giving it one of the strongest long-term track records in the industry. So not all is lost, in case you were worried.
Excel is so useful for small businesses that Iím posting a series of short instructional videos I made for†a regional micro lending organization. †The idea is to get entrepreneurs to start tracking their sales, customers, revenues, and profits in a more useful format than the back of a notebook. This is video #3, introducing the idea that Excel can be programmed to do any math you can think of, something which is especially useful for small businesses. 
Are private equity firms about to become much less private? Or lose an easy way to make tens of millions of dollars? One of the two is likely if an anonymous industry executive's whistle-blower complaint gets traction.Crain's New York Business†has reported that a "senior" private equity insider filed a compliant with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year about the so-called transaction fees that PE firms often charge when they buy a company. At issue is whether relatively lightly regulated private equity firms can advise on transactions just like an investment bank without registering as a broker-dealer. Such a designation would come with greater regulatory oversight, something PE funds would hate. The whistler blower, who stands to make up to 30 percent of money recovered by the government, argues that private equity firms are violating federal securities law by awarding themselves multi-million dollar payments for sealing a deal, such as the†$40 million Clayton Dubilier &amp; Rice†took in 2011 when it closed its $3.2 billion acquisition of Emergency Medical Services. (Read more:†Private equity firms brace for 'mafia' style scrutiny) The private equity industry has been indignant in reaction, mostly because fees are often disclosed during a deal and haggled over with fund investors. "This is a waste of time," said one private equity firm employee who asked to remain nameless. "The fee is a negotiated deal between very sophisticated parties. No one is being taken advantage of here." Plus, an increasing number of private equity clients are reimbursed for the transaction fees. Buyout funds launched in 2012 and 2013 rebate an average of 87 percent of transaction fees to their investors, according to industry data tracker Preqin. About 63 percent give the entire fee back to investors, up from 51 percent in 2010 and 2011. Firms like Warburg Pincus and Hellman &amp; Friedman have traditionally not charged such fees, and other firms like Bain Capital have more recently joined the fee-refund club. The ones that still do, such as TPG Partners and†Apollo Global Management, are already being pressured by public pensions to stop the practice. (Read more:†U.S.pension funds pressure Caesars' private equity owners) For most observers, the whistler-blower charge was hardly a revelation. "Most limited partners have always hated transaction fees," said Susan Long McAndrews, a partner at $24 billion fund of private equity funds Pantheon. She joked that the practice is sometimes called the "crack cocaine of the private equity industry" because the fees aren't traditionally subject to minimum performance requirements. While McAndrews was quick to note that PE investors have successfully pushed for more fee rebates, there may be something to the new SEC focus. "Yes, it's gone on forever and it's not new information. But there could be a case where, by the letter of the law, taking these fees does change the nature of what that firm is doing from being an asset manager to a broker dealer," McAndrews said. (Read more:†Private equity needs to act 'maturely': Report) Many firms are already watching the SEC for movement on the issue. In April, senior SEC lawyer David Blass gave a speech noting the potential that PE shops might need to be registered as broker-dealers in part because of their transaction fees. Blass called for "dialogue" on the issue. That dialogue cameómainly in the form of the industry strongly voicing its opposition to the idea. "Layering broker-dealer regulations on private equity will be of no meaningful benefit to investors and would levy significant costs on private equity firms," said Steve Judge, president of the chief industry lobbyist Private Equity Growth Capital Council. Judge argues that services provided by PE firms to their affiliated funds and portfolio companies are investment advisory services, a designation that already faces more scrutiny under the Dodd-Frank Act. Jordan Thomas, a partner at Labaton Sucharow and the whistle-blower's lawyer, disagrees. "For almost a decade, many of the largest and most prominent private equity firms appear to have chosen to increase their bottom line without subjecting themselves to the oversight, limitations and expenses of the required broker dealer regulatory regime," Thomas said. He estimates that private equity firms have made more than $2 billion dollars in transaction fees over the last 10 years without being properly registered as broker dealers. (Read more:†These pension funds made a killing with private equity) Law firms like†Covington &amp; Burling†have warned their private equity clients to be prepared for transaction fee questions during so-called "presence exams" for newly registered firms. "I'm seeing many clients who are apprehensive about taking transaction fees going forward," said Lindsey Simon, founder of regulatory consultancy Simon Compliance. She said several of her private equity funds clients have stopped charging the fees and are waiting for guidance from the SEC before deciding whether to resume collecting them at all. Simon declined to provide the names of those clients. The call for greater scrutiny by the SEC comes just as a bill in Congress would exempt most PE firms from registering with the SEC.
APNew York City Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio on Thursday tapped Bill Bratton to become the city's next police commissioner, a selection that was hailed by many as pragmatic but drew skepticism from some members of de Blasio's progressive base. The choice of Bratton is a throwback to the administration of Rudy Giuliani, when Bratton was the commissioner for two mostly tumultuous years that featured personal clashes with Giuliani.† "Together, we are going to preserve and deepen the historic gains weíve made in public safety ó gains Bill Bratton helped make possible," de Blasio said in a statement. "And we will do it by rejecting the false choice between keeping New Yorkers safe and protecting their civil rights. This is an Administration that will do both." De Blasio highlighted the fact that felony crime dropped 39% under Bratton's watch in the mid-90s. Bratton followed up his efforts in New York City by moving on to become the Los Angeles Police Commissioner in 2002.† The de Blasio transition team highlighted all the right people in a statement praising the selection of Bratton. There was former Los Angeles Mayor†Antonio Villaraigosa;†U.S. Rep. Nydia M. Vel·zquez (D-N.Y.);†New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman; and Jeremy Travis, the president of John Jay College of Criminal Justice and former deputy of legal matters for the NYPD, among others. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) and U.S. Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) also praised the move.† But in what was the most closely watched appointment, de Blasio found some detractors from the base that had elected him after he campaigned on sweeping progressive ideas, including a reform of the controversial stop-and-frisk policy of which Bratton is a proponent. "This is an outrage. Ö This is an outrage!" New York City councilman Charles Barron told Business Insider in an interview. "Asking Bill Bratton to come back and stop racial profiling stop-and-frisk is like asking an arsonist to come back and put out some fires. ... It's a†slap in the face to everybody in the progressive community." The Rev. Al Sharpton, who clashed with Bratton during the 90s, released a cautious statement†that noted the pair's history ó including the fact that their relationship took a turn for the better when Bratton was in Los Angeles and they worked together on reducing gang violence. "When Bill Bratton served in New York City under Rudy Giuliani, we had a very distant and adversarial relationship, but when he served in Los Angeles, he and I and the Los Angeles Chapter of National Action Network worked closely on gang violence and police misconduct matters," Sharpton said. "Mr. Bratton knows of my concerns and the concerns of others about racial profiling in stop and frisk policing but at the same time is aware of our desire to continue the decrease of violence and crime in our community." The New York Civil Liberties Union released a similarly cautious statement, saying that it looked forward to working with both de Blasio and Bratton to "ensure that fundamental changes are made to the NYPD." Linda Sarsour, the executive director of the Arab American Association of New York,†tweeted†that she wasn't "jumping for joy," suggesting that the pick didn't satisfy concerns over stop-and-frisk and†NYPD surveillance of Muslims. But she said later that the "de Blasio folks" were already reaching out to those skeptical of the appointment, a good sign. For his part, de Blasio cast Bratton as someone who understood the balance between civil rights and keeping the city safe. And Bratton said in a press conference that this wasn't a return to the Giuliani administration. "This is not deja vu all over again," he said.
USFWS PacificThe "loonie" is key to one of Goldman's top trades.Goldman Sachs has unveiled its top six trade recommendations for the year ahead in a series of notes to clients. The trades aren't for everyone and some of them are pretty technical. Many of the recommendations are pair trades (buy one thing, sell another) driven by what is perhaps the most important and widely-expected macro development in the year ahead: a winding down of the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program. "The purpose of the Top Trade Recommendation list is, as always, to connect specific and actionable trade ideas to the set of key market themes that are likely to play out over the course of the year and that we expect to form the backbone of our strategic approach to markets for the year to come," says Goldman Sachs managing director Noah Weisberger. "While our initial list will be comprehensive, and connect back to the economic and market forces as we see them currently, we are likely to add to the list of Top Trade Recommendations (along with our usual slate of tactical trade recommendations) as the year progresses, as our views evolve, and as market risks and opportunities shift."¬†
Farnam ìIím no genius. Iím smart in spotsóbut I stay around those spots.îó Tom Watson Sr., Founder of IBM The concept of the ìCircle of Competenceî has been used over the years by Warren Buffett as a way to focus investors on only operating in areas they knew best. The bones of the concept appear in his†1996 Shareholder Letter: What an investor needs is the ability to correctly evaluate selected businesses. Note that word ìselectedî: You donít have to be an expert on every company, or even many. You only have to be able to evaluate companies within your circle of competence. The size of that circle is not very important; knowing its boundaries, however, is vital. Itís a simple concept: Each of us, through experience or study, has built up useful knowledge on certain areas of the world. Some areas are understood by most of us, while some areas require a lot more specialty to evaluate. For example, most of us have a basic understanding of the economics of a restaurant: You rent or buy space, spend money to outfit the place and then hire employees to seat, serve, cook, and clean. (And, if you donít want to do it yourself, manage.) From there itís a matter of generating enough traffic and setting the appropriate prices to generate a profit on the food and drinks you serveóafter all of your operating expenses have been paid. Though the cuisine, atmosphere, and price points will vary by restaurant, they all have to follow the same economic formula. That basic knowledge, along with some understanding of accounting and a little bit of study, would enable one to evaluate and invest in any number of restaurants and restaurant chains; public or private. Itís not all that complicated. However, can most of us say we understand the workings of a micro-chip company or a biotech drug company at the same level? Perhaps not. But as Buffett put so eloquently, we do not necessarily need to understand these more esoteric areas to invest capital. Far more important is to honestly define what we do know and to stick to those areas. The circle can be widened, but only slowly and over time. Mistakes are most often made when straying from this discipline. * * * The concept applies outside of investing. Buffett describes†the circle of competence of one of his business managers, a Russian immigrant with poor English who built the largest furniture store in Nebraska, thusly: I couldnít have given her $200 million worth of Berkshire Hathaway stock when I bought the business because she doesnít understand stock. She understands cash. She understands furniture. She understands real estate. She doesnít understand stocks, so she doesnít have anything to do with them. If you deal with Mrs. B in what I would call her circle of competenceÖ She is going to buy 5,000 end tables this afternoon (if the price is right). She is going to buy 20 different carpets in odd lots, and everything else like that [snaps fingers] because she understands carpet. She wouldnít buy 100 shares of General Motors if it was at 50 cents a share. It did not hurt Mrs. B to have such a narrow area of competence. In fact, one could argue the opposite: Her rigid devotion to that area allowed her to focus. Only with that focus could she have overcome her handicaps to achieve such extreme success. In fact, Charlie Munger takes this concept outside of business altogether and into the realm of life in general. The essential question he sought to answer: Where should we devote our limited time in life, in order to achieve the most success? Charlieís†simple prescription: You have to figure out what your own aptitudes are. If you play games where other people have the aptitudes and you donít, youíre going to lose. And thatís as close to certain as any prediction that you can make. You have to figure out where youíve got an edge. And youíve got to play within your own circle of competence. If you want to be the best tennis player in the world, you may start out trying and soon find out that itís hopelessóthat other people blow right by you. However, if you want to become the best plumbing contractor in Bemidji, that is probably doable by two-thirds of you. It takes a will. It takes the intelligence. But after a while, youíd gradually know all about the plumbing business in Bemidji and master the art. That is an attainable objective, given enough discipline. And people who could never win a chess tournament or stand in center court in a respectable tennis tournament can rise quite high in life by slowly developing a circle of competenceówhich results partly from what they were born with and partly from what they slowly develop through work. So, the simple takeaway here is clear. If you want to improve your odds of success in life and business then define the perimeter of your circle of competence, and operate inside. Over time, work to expand that circle but never fool yourself about where it stands today, and never be afraid to say ìI donít know.î Circle of Competence is part of the Farnam Street†latticework of mental models.
AP Photo/Alexander F. YuanFollowing investigative articles about the wealth of the families of top Chinese leaders, China refused to renew visas for around two dozen reporters from The New York Times and Bloomberg, according to Mark Landler of the Times. The moves threaten to "effectively shut down the organizations‚Äô China news bureaus," according to the Times. This striking fact comes as¬†Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. warned on a China visit of¬†repercussions if U.S. foreign correspondents are forced from the country for reporting certain stories. China's media crackdown came in the wake of¬†Bloomberg's "Revolution to Riches" series about Chinese princelings, first published ¬†in June 2012 and quickly blocked in CHina, and¬†a story by The Times about the fortune held by the family former premier Wen Jiabao, published in October 2012 and also blocked in China. On Thursday Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said China manages issues concerning foreign journalists "in accordance with laws and regulations."
Earlier today, the company announced it would begin tapping technology developed by Tesla to create commercial energy storage units.† This is big: We recently explained why†energy storage has become on of the last stumbling blocks to making renewable energy competitive with conventional sources of generation. Because the sun does not shine and the wind doesn't blow all day, it can be difficult to store†excess power that can be stored to meet demand surges.†Storage helps address the problem. Commercial customers in California, Massachusetts, and Connecticut will be the first to receive the new batteries, SolarCity says.†AP says the systems will cost over $100,000. SolarCity shares hit an all-time high of $62.77 in November.
I don't expect this from Bloomberg, but I like it. This week, reporter Ryan Sutton published his review of the new NYC location of Tao, one of Wall Street's favorite upscale restaurant/party spots. Now, the word "review" is actually incredibly gentle for what it was ó it was more like a takedown, a complete beating, a Bruce Lee roundhouse kick to the face. For years Tao has been known for a luxe experience catering the the world's wealthiest. The group that owns the restaurant, Strategic Hospitality Group, also owns monster nightclubs like Lavo (see: brunch), Marquee and Upper East Side steakhouse Arlington Club. Surely you've heard of Arlington Club. Now the thing with Strategic is that it specializes in that experience ó in the 'you-can-have-this-with-a-side-of-diamond-dust-and-sparklers' kind of entertainment that people pay top dollar for. In Manhattan, it's not just a reality, it's its own genre. Forget the genre, though, as it was not enough to save Tao for Sutton. At the end of the day, he argues, the massive Tao downtown ó which occupies the space of defunct velvet-rope-vibe nightclub Hiro under the Maritime Hotel ó does not deliver on its primary purpose for existing ó food. Okay this is rough (from Sutton): Now why so many people spend their money here is a more complicated question. The salmon rolls, chilled into a chokehold, taste as if they were freshly delivered from a local bodega. And raw tuna, paired with stiff shards of parmesan, is littered with so much sinus-clearing wasabi it could qualify as a frat-pledge dare at Binghamton University ... And Wagyu beef, with ìsophisticated dips and sauces,î has scant more tenderness or flavor than a $10 steak from Pathmark. Sutton goes on to point out all the givens óThe waitresses wear sexy dresses, getting a reservation is impossible, and a bottle of Grey Goose costs $400. That's the experience Strategic specializes in. You can take it, or you can leave it. None of this is going anywhere. But neither are the people, like Sutton, railing against it. This is the epic civil war of all nightlife, people. Do you just throw money at an experience that you know, historically, will impress people with even more money? Or do you try to answer questions ó the questions that people have the liberty to ask during their precious nights and weekends away from work? In their free time people wonder. They wonder about what dumplings really taste like in Shanghai or how much spice is too much spice in Vietnamese cuisine. Even better, in NYC, they can explore that. They can get those questions answered by dedicated chefs and restaurateurs who are asking the same questions. This kind of exploration is actually an opportunity for mini-adventure. It's a high, and it's a huge reason why people are drawn to this city. Inarguably, Tao has mastered the international language of "luxe," but it provides no satisfaction to Sutton or others who want more ó for people who are looking for the rush of something they've never had before. Some people, however, do not care about any of that. Diamond dust is good enough. Sutton writes: So while much of New York itches to learn more about the myriad regional cuisines of the Global East, filling fine spots like Pok Pok, Cafe China and Xiían Famous Foods, Tao provides the opposite, trafficking in the pedestrian Pan-Asian luxuries of business district hotels of Shanghai, Mumbai, or Dubai. Tao is the type of restaurant designed for those who refuse to eat from street vendors when traveling abroad, and for those who suddenly become vegetarian in foreign countries. So now you know about the culture war. Whose side are you on?
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsVenezuelan president Nicolas Maduro passed legislation to regulate the price of new and used cars in an effort to rein in inflation.† The law states that the price of used cars can't surpass that of new cars and that breaking the law could earn perpetrators jail time. But some argue that the law will only make problems worse. Dennis Gartman, editor and publisher of The Gartman Letter says, "at least the now deceased President Hugo Chavez Frias was both entertaining and brilliant. ÖThe gentleman who has followed him is simply an idiot." From Gartman: "We know this every day for several times each day he comes up with some new, idiotic left-wing policy that only a socialist could love and put forth. Yesterday, President Maduro issued a decree controlling the price of new and second-hand cars. New cars are currently all but impossible to find due to import restrictions heís imposed and due to the fact that automobile manufacturers are unwilling to send cars to the country fearing expropriation† by the government. Hence, Venezuelans now have to pay very high prices for used cars, with the price for used cars already there in Venezuela leaping above the "list price for new cars.""ÖAccording to the new decree, the citizens of Venezuela will be ìExpressly forbidden to speculate on the prices of second-hand vehicles as though they were new...î and those who break the new law will face jail sentences of six to 12 years. "The Presidentís office said last evening that there will be more details today when the decree is official published in the nationís newspapers; however what we found most fascinating and modest sadly comical was that this is the 625th such decree since he took office April 19th of this year. Heís making an aver age of 2.7 decrees/day." If Gartman's disdain for Maduro wasn't evident enough, here's his final word on the Venezuelan president and his latest decree: "Such is the life of an idiot, socialist despot, making life for his people more and more difficult by the hour. Lunacy has no bounds."
Flavored booze. "Millennials" dig it, "purists" hate it, and now the CEO of one of America's most iconic spirits has weighed in. Paul Varga, the chief executive of Brown-Forman, says that drinkers can expect the Jack Daniel's brand to remain "conservative." "When you're dealing with the Jack Daniel's trademark, you're going to be extra careful," Varga said on an analyst call (picked up by the Wall Street Journal's Ben Fox Rubin). "I suspect we'll have more ideas that we'll treat just as conservatively." Well, it depends what your definition of conservative is. As Rubin notes, Jack Daniel's just rolled out a new seasonal Winter Jack that blends the spirit with "apple cider liqueur and spices." And there's the Tennessee Honey brand. Which, in your humble booze correspondent's opinion, is the Fall Out Boy of liquor. According to Varga, Tennessee Honey brand has been hugely successful, and he doesn't see JD drinkers coming down with the kind of "flavor fatigue" seen with†vodka (and maybe gin). But to a certain extent, you've got to give the people what they want. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal ª
The value of all daily Bitcoin transactions is now just about one-third less than transactions on online pay service giant PayPal.† That's according to Coinometrics, a site that tracks digital currency data.† Around 80,000 transactions occur in Bitcoin daily.† The dollar value of those transactions total around $257 million. Compare that with $397 million for Paypal. And that's already greater than $216 million worth of transactions conducted by Western Union, the company that Bank of America's David Woo compared Bitcoin to in his forecast for the digital currency's potential. However, those 80,000 overall daily transactions still pale in comparison to more mainstream American companies, including Western Union, which does 633,000 exchanges a day, Coinometrics says. The transactions include all transactions on the Bitcoin network, meaning exchanges processed by places like Bitpay and Coinbase. They do not include trades that occur at exchanges, which are off-chain transactions that do not show up on the network. Here's the chart: Coinometrics And here's the data in table form: Coinometrics And here's the fun graphic: Coinometrics
Chinese universities are the most dominant of any "emerging economy," according to a new list from Times Higher Education. THE ranked universities from BRICS ‚Äî Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa ‚Äî and 17 other countries with emerging economies.¬†China had the largest representation of any country, with 23 schools in THE's top 100 ‚Äî including four in the top 10. One education expert told THE that the Chinese government has set aside "special funding" to boost the status of 39 of its schools and encourages universities to create joint programs with Western institutions. Here are the top 10 universities from an emerging economy: #10¬†Lomonosov Moscow State University¬†‚Äî Russian Federation Via Wikimedia Commons #9¬†Middle East Technical University¬†‚Äî Turkey Via Wikimedia Commons #8¬†Fudan University¬†‚Äî China Via Wikimedia Commons #7¬†Istanbul Technical University¬†‚Äî Turkey Via Wikimedia Commons #6¬†University of Science and Technology of China¬†‚Äî China Via Wikimedia Commons #5¬†Boƒüazi√ßi University¬†‚Äî Turkey Via Wikimedia Commons #4¬†National Taiwan University¬†‚Äî Taiwan Via Wikimedia Commons #3 University of Cape Town ‚Äî South Africa Via Wikimedia Commons #2¬†Tsinghua University¬†‚Äî China Via Wikimedia Commons #1¬†Peking University¬†‚Äî China Via Wikimedia Commons
REUTERS/Sergio PerezA protester wearing a mask depicting Spain's Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy stands outside the High Court in Madrid on August 13, 2013. The sign reads: "I, pure".Corruption is rising faster in Spain than anywhere except for civil-war-torn Syria, according to Transparency International's¬†2013 Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI),¬†published on Tuesday. Spain dropped ten places to 40¬†out of 177 in the corruption rankings. Anne Koch, Transparency International‚Äôs director for Europe and Central Asia, recently explained Spain‚Äôs harsh rating to Reuters: What the economic crisis has done is allow more public debate about corruption¬†‚Ä¶ It is being exposed more and that affects perceptions. In Spain every sector ‚Äì politics, the royal family and companies ‚Äì was implicated in graft at a time when the country is really suffering. Spain underwent two high profile scandals this year that contributed to rising corruption. REUTERS/Susana VeraSpanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy speaks during a session at Madrid's Senate on August 1, 2013. Rajoy told lawmakers that the justice system would find that neither he nor his political party have committed any crime in an ongoing corruption scandal. Widespread graft in the government Last January, Spain‚Äôs two main newspapers El Pais and El Mundo, published documents that reportedly showed a series of payments from well known businessmen to the ruling People‚Äôs Party¬†(PP). The payments took place over more than a decade, with the last payment occurring in 2009.¬† According to El Pais, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy received an annual sum of $34,000 between 1997 and 2008 from a slush fund maintained by now-incarcerated former treasurer Luis B√°rcenas. Luis B√°rcenas, who was a party administrator for two decades before becoming a senator and finally the treasurer, allegedly kept a double accounting system to hide the payments.¬† What‚Äôs worse, El Pais reported that the PP‚Äôs secret fund came from construction magnates who received public contracts and helped cause the real-estate bubble that is largely to blame for Spain‚Äôs current financial woes.¬† El Pais ran a poll that included some shocking statistics after the story broke:¬†Four out of five Spaniards believed that the PP‚Äôs leadership should resign completely and just over half wanted a snap general election.¬† Rajoy repeatedly asserted his and his party‚Äôs innocence throughout the ordeal and during a special hearing in front of Parliament in August, but the polls after that hearing were just as negative. El Mundo reported that 72.1 percent of Spaniards thought that Rajoy was lying while the Sigma Dos Institute reported that 60% of people polled thought Rajoy should resign.¬† Despite the constant calls for his resignation, Rajoy has yet to acquiesce. El Pais ran a scathing opinion piece on why neither Rajoy nor any disgraced Spanish politician will resign: In Spain, anyone caught red-handed, whether his name is B√°rcenas, [Health Minister] Mato or Fern√°ndez, will then try to wriggle his way out of the situation in any way he can, doing a balancing act, trying to divert attention from the subject or dragging others into the mess. They protest their innocence (as if it was of a strictly legal nature, devoid of any political implications), deny the veracity of documents or claim to be the victims of a plot. They even go as far as publishing their tax returns to divert attention. But they may just as well publish their prayer books, because neither the former nor the latter contribute anything to clearing up matters. Scandal in the royal family¬†REUTERS/Albert GeaSpain's Duke of Palma Inaki Urdangarin leaves a court after testifying in Barcelona on July 16, 2013.  In 2011, I√±aki Urdangarin, the Duke of Palma and King Juan Carlos's son-in-law, was accused of embezzling millions of public dollars given to a charity he ran from 2004 to 2006. The money was allegedly placed in the non-profit Noose Institute, which organizes sports and cultural events.¬†Urdangarin and his former business partner Diego Torres ran the charity at the time, while Princess Cristina de Borbon, Urdangarin's wife, was on the board. ¬† Urdangarin may have been embroiled in the courts for the past two years, but the story took another high profile turn in April when a judge reversed a previous decision and indicted the princess on fraud, embezzlement and tax evasion charges. Earlier this year, Urdangarin was suspended from official royal engagements and his properties were impounded¬†to cover¬†an $8.2m bond ordered by the Spanish courts to cover Urdangarin's liability in the case. Many Spaniards believe King Juan Carlos was, if not part of Urdangarin‚Äôs embezzling scheme, at least intimately aware of it. Earlier this year, leaked emails indicated that the King took a close interest in his son-in-law's business ventures. These two scandals are just a few of the more than 1,500 corruption cases that have hit Spain since the start of their financial crisis, according to USAToday . The crisis has only magnified the public‚Äôs interest in the cases and eroded their confidence in a government that has been a circus over the last year.¬†
Earlier this year, Yahoo made a surprising announcement: Dan Loeb was stepping down from the company's board, and Yahoo was buying 40 million of its shares from his hedge fund.† Loeb, more than any other person, is responsible for the rejuvenation of Yahoo. He got Scott Thompson fired, and Marissa Mayer hired as CEO.† At the time, it looked like Loeb was just cashing in and leaving. His firm earned $1 billion on the sale of its Yahoo stock, which is an excellent haul for a little over a year's worth of work.† It turns out Loeb didn't just up and leave. According to a new report by Bethaney McClean in Vanity Fair, Mayer outmaneuvered Loeb, and essentially pushed him out of the company.† When Loeb decided he wanted to sell, he told Mayer he was planning on selling 20 million Yahoo shares, or a third of his stake in the company. Mayer countered by saying Yahoo would buying 40 million shares at $29.11 per share.† Mayer's offer was advantageous for Loeb in that he got $29 per share locked in. If he went to the open market and started selling, there was no guarantee that he would get that price. (McLean says Loeb planned to sell if Yahoo got in the $25-$30 range.) Indeed, Yahoo's stock dropped 5% on the news that Loeb was cashing out. At the time, our Henry Blodget argued that this was almost insider trading: "Third Point is getting the pre-resignation price for its stock, while knowing about the upcoming board member resignations. And the rest of us Joe Schmo Yahoo shareholders, who didn't know about the resignations, are now getting the post-resignation price." He added, "I am sure that this deal was lawyered out the wazoo. So I'm sure there's some innocent explanation.†But until I hear that explanation, I will be scratching my head." There is an explanation, but it's not so innocent.† Carl Quintanilla/TwitterTabloid coverage of the Yahoo dealWhen Loeb said he wanted to sell, Mayer saw an opportunity to get rid of Loeb. By selling 40 million shares, Loeb's ownership of Yahoo dropped below 2% and he forced off the board.† Why would Mayer want to get rid of Loeb? Because, like any good CEO, she wants absolute control over her company. Dumping Loeb gave her that control. An industry executive explained it best to McLean, saying, "She dodged a bullet ... I thought she and Dan were going to go sideways. He would have fired her. Both are extreme alphas. Dan was going to turn at some point. She ran the first gauntlet. She got him out. Dan had a gun to her head whether she knew it or not, and she orchestrated his departure." In other words, Loeb and Mayer may have gotten along initially, but that would not last. At some point, Loeb was going to be angry with Mayer. As a board member he could have made her life miserable.† Before that could happen, Mayer pushed him out of the way, and now Yahoo is all hers to run as she sees fit.†
Kyle Bass' hedge fund Hayman Capital has dumped its stake in JC Penney, according to Bloomberg. As of right now, the stock is down 9% for the day. Hayman announced its stake back in August, when investors like Bill Ackman were still in the stock as well. Since then Ackman has exited, and fellow hedge fund manager Richard Perry of Perry Capital has cut his stake in half. JC Penney's sales surged in November, as the retailer is trying to pivot back to older brands and sales strategies that were disrupted when Bill Ackman tried to change the company after he bought a significant stake in JCP in 2010. Here's the chart, from Yahoo Finance:                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Kyle Bass                                            JC Penney's                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						1									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Kyle Bass Says He's Dumped His JC Penney Stake And The Stock's Taking A Beating    Kyle Bass Says He's Dumped His JC Penney Stake And The Stock's Taking A Beating        Yesterday he said he picked up GM.
Matignon, the "official residence" of the French prime minister, will sell 1,400 bottles of wine to cut costs, Bloomberg's Vidya Root reports. The wine, headed to auction on December 6, ranges from your standard 15-euro "I'm just going to stay in and watch Netflix" bottle to the 5,500 ($7,460) Romanee Conti 2004. French President Francois Hollande has requested ministers "to reduce their operational expenses by 7 percent this year and by 4 percent next year, as part of efforts to cut total spending by about 12 billion euros a year over his five-year term," according to the report. From Bloomberg: Hollande‚Äôs own residence, the Elysee Palace, sold off a 10th of its wine cellar in May for 178,800 euros. Paris¬†City Hall¬†raised 961,000 euros, 75 percent more than the catalog estimates, in 2006 as it auctioned off 5,000 bottles that had been accumulated when Chirac was mayor from 1977 to 1995. Dijon, the capital of the Burgundy region, raised 152,000 euros in January as it sold half its wine cellar. The good news, for France at least, is that foreign buyers are willing to pay a ton for French wine. Read the full report at Bloomberg ¬ª
No one knows for sure whether Bitcoin is a currency or a means of transferring funds. In his new note on Bitcoin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch currency analyst David Woo buys into the argument from Bitcoin evangelists that the digital currency can be both. And in discussing its value as a means for wiring money, Woo goes big. Some background: When discussing Bitcoin's potential value, people often use the example of a migrant worker in the U.S. using Bitcoin as an alternative means to send remittances home. There are no known examples of this happening yet ‚Äî as with many things bitcoin, this is pure speculation ‚Äî but it's technically possible. There is also speculation that this use is one of the reasons for bitcoin's extreme growth in China, since the country's capital controls make it difficult to perform transactions overseas using yuan. So Woo draws up a very bullish comparison between bitcoin and Western Union, MoneyGram, and Euronet, the world's largest wire transfer companies. He frames it in the context of those companies' market cap (or enterprise value, which includes debt), and compares it to Bitcoin's market cap, which is now $13 billion.¬† "Let‚Äôs assume that Bitcoin becomes one of the top three players in this industry. What does that mean for Bitcoin valuation? Given Bitcoin‚Äôs supply is fixed, when one buys a Bitcoin, one is acquiring not only a medium of exchange but also an investment in the enterprise value of Bitcoin. From this point of view, Bitcoin's market capitalization could be viewed, with a little leap of faith, as its enterprise value. With the average market capitalization of Western Union, MoneyGram and Euronet at about $4.5bn, we will add this number to the maximum market capitalization of Bitcoin‚Äôs role as a medium of exchange." So bitcoin is technically already worth nearly three-times as much as the average market cap of the big three wire companies. Woo includes a chart comparing bitcoin specifically to Western Union. "Assuming Bitcoin becomes (1) a major player in both e- commerce and money transfer and (2) a significant store of value with a reputation close to silver, our fair value analysis implies a maximum market capitalization of Bitcoin of $15bn (1BTC = 1300 USD)," said Woo. More fuel for the frenzy. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
REUTERS/Joe SkipperA work titled "For Those in Peril on the Sea" by artist Hew Locke is displayed during a media tour of the Perez Art Museum Miami (PAMM) in Miami, Florida December 3, 2013.It is one of the world‚Äôs biggest and most significant art festivals in a city renowned for sun, style and celebrity. Yet when Art Basel Miami Beach opens to the public on Thursday, the popular annual gathering of artists, gallery owners, collectors and dealers will take on an additional role ‚Äì as a barometer of the wild, nearly unfathomable boom market in contemporary art. Just three weeks ago, the world‚Äôs ultra-rich art collectors spent more than a billion dollars at a pair of auctions of contemporary art at the New York branches of Christie‚Äôs and Sotheby‚Äôs. Francis Bacon‚Äôs Three Studies of Lucian Freud sold for $142.5m, a world record for a painting at auction, and Jeff Koons‚Äôs Balloon Dog (Orange) set a new high of $58.4m for a work by a living artist. Those staggering figures might have led open-mouthed observers to wonder whether the plutocrats ‚Äì or ‚Äúultra-high-net-worth individuals,‚Äù as the auction houses call them ‚Äì would have any cash left to spend at the end of the year. Yet the 12th edition of the winter spinoff of Art Basel, the prestigious Swiss art fair, is drawing the usual assortment of private jet passengers, museum bigwigs, advisers, consultants and social butterflies.¬† For Art Basel Miami Beach more than 250 of the world‚Äôs leading art galleries have assembled paintings, sculptures and drawings by 4,000 artists ‚Äìand while prices are not as stratospheric as in the New York sale rooms, the galleries are set to do serious business at Wednesday‚Äôs VIP preview and throughout the week. ‚ÄúWhether it‚Äôs the atmosphere of Miami, the celebrity aura of the place, or the timing just before Christmas, people seem to be very loose spending money there,‚Äù said Allan Schwartzman, an art adviser and industry analyst based in New York. ‚ÄúTastes change and styles change, but there‚Äôs such a depth of interest in serious art,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúYou can‚Äôt predict the future, but the market is strong based on the depth of international wealth.‚Äù Tens of thousands of visitors are expected to attend the five-day event, which features official exhibitions split into ‚Äúsectors‚Äù at the Miami Beach Convention Centre and elsewhere around the city. At Tuesday night‚Äôs opening event for Art Basel‚Äôs outdoor art ‚Äúsector,‚Äù the New York artist Kate Gilmore presented a performance that featured nearly a dozen strapping topless models ‚Äì male and female ‚Äì beating metal cubes with sledgehammers for the better part of two hours. Alongside Art Basel, another 20 or so satellite art fairs with their own exhibitions, lectures, film screenings and other events ‚Äì many in Miami‚Äôs downtown arts district‚Äì have glommed onto the main event. Some, including the decorative arts fair Design Miami and a new fair devoted to Brazilian art, are already under way. There are also big names in Miami‚Äôs museums, which often save their best programming for Basel season. This year‚Äôs biggest draw is the new P√©rez Art Museum Miami, a $220m waterfront facility designed by Herzog and de Meuron, the Swiss architectural duo responsible for Tate Modern in London and the Bird‚Äôs Nest Stadium in Beijing. The museum opens this week with an exhibition of the dissident Chinese artist Ai Weiwei, who is displaying 38 tons of straightened steel rebar in remembrance of the 2008 Sichuan earthquake that killed more than 90,000 people. Neon sculptures by the British artist Tracey Emin, who bought an apartment in South Beach this year, are on display at the Museum of Contemporary Art in North Miami. Beach towels at the swanky Fontainebleau Hotel have been embroidered with the words ‚Äòkiss me‚Äô from one of her pieces in her honour. But works from lesser-known artists and emerging talents, many from Miami and from Latin America, have always been a mainstay of Art Basel events. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs a youthful energy and vitality to Miami‚Äôs arts scene that defines international trends,‚Äù said Michael Spring, director of cultural affairs for Miami-Dade county. ‚ÄúWe have a very young cultural influence that‚Äôs been on the rise for the last 25 years. Art Basel has accelerated that growth in a way we couldn‚Äôt have imagined. Even in the depths of recession it continued to boom and now we‚Äôre coming out of it the momentum is unstoppable.‚Äù With such an influx of the global super-rich in a town already known for hedonism, however, Art Basel Miami Beach has ballooned into an all-out festival of cash and champagne that threatens to overshadow the art. Jewelery companies are hosting cocktail parties, private wealth managers are organising discreet breakfast events, and real estate brokers are planning open houses for waterfront properties at obscene prices. And Basel, especially once the weekend comes, also draws a roving brigade of scenesters who don‚Äôt go to the fair at all, but instead prefer to crash the endless poolside parties. The Miami New Times has published a helpful Art Basel party guide, highlighting the best of nightlife and its recommended places to get drunk during the festival. Despite the myriad distractions, however, Art Basel organisers insist the real business of the event is introducing contemporary art to new collectors by bringing together artists, galleries and buyers at the same venue. And according to Schwartzman, the remarkable prices achieved last month in New York are indicative of robust demand, though whether that ripples out past the largest dealers to smaller galleries is less certain. ‚ÄúThe focus is more on living artists so they tend to sell at lower prices, but I‚Äôve known many sales in the high six figures and low seven figures. The art market in general, and Art Basel in particular have grown dramatically, and the market is healthy and alive. ‚ÄúSince 2008, it‚Äôs followed a similar path to society in general: the top does very well, there‚Äôs a lot of interest at the lower levels and the middle sinks.‚Äù This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
The Daily ShowIn October, Bloomberg's Stephanie Ruhle, Mary Childs, and Julie Miecamp reported that private equity firm Blackstone structured a strange financial maneuver to pay a company to force it to miss a debt payment, thereby triggering a credit default swap to the tune of $15.6 million. One way to describe this is is, dang, that's brilliant (and legal).¬†Jon Stewart, famed financial skeptic,¬†had a different take on the Daily Show last night. "Now I'm sure you're asking yourself, 'Hey, I think I saw something like that in¬†Goodfellas, when they get insurance on a restaurant and then deliberately blow the restaurant up," Stewart says.¬†"But in Goodfellas, it was illegal. In the financial world, it's above board." Later in the segment, correspondent Samantha Bee interviews a reporter at the New York Times, skewering the paper for failing to cover the story. She also meets with members of the BuzzFeed business team to spice up an otherwise dry CDS story with some Nicolas Cage GIFs.¬† The whole segment is worth a watch. 
The last few batches of global production data reaffirm the idea that the world's economies are intrinsically tied together. "Major advanced economies, including the United States, United Kingdom, Japan, and the euro zone, have seen expanding manufacturing activities for five consecutive months through November," writes Guggenheim's Scott Minerd. "Benefiting from the recovery in external demand from advanced economies, manufacturing activity in most emerging countries such as China, India, South Africa, and Turkey has also returned to expansion after a slump over the summer. One exception is that manufacturing activities in some commodity-driven countries continue weakening as major commodity prices remain depressed." Take a look at Minerd's chart, which gives a PMI overview. Globally, it seems we're moving toward accelerated industrial expansion. Guggenheim
Bank of AmericaDavid Woo "We believe Bitcoin can become a major means of payment for e-commerce and may emerge as a serious competitor to traditional money transfer providers. As a medium of exchange, Bitcoin has clear potential for growth, in our view." That quote is from David Woo, FX and Rates Strategist at Bank of America/Merill Lynch. Woo is one of the most genuinely brilliant minds on Wall Street, and that statement is huge. Here's why: Lots of folks have made positive noises about Bitcoin. Ben Bernanke, for example, said it "may hold long-term promise" but mostly spoke very generally about being open-minded toward digital currencies. He never said anything specific. Various hedge fund managers have made positive statements about Bitcoin, but you have to take their comments with a grain of salt. Most of them aren't experts in economics, and just get excited by things that go up or down by a lot (which obviously Bitcoin does in spades). But Woo's analysis represents a top-flight mind at a major financial institution assessing it in a serious way, and coming to the conclusion that it could be the real deal. Woo even identifies the three things that need to happen for Bitcoin to be worth what it currently is: Our fair value analysis suggests that to justify the current Bitcoin valuation, it will need to (1) account for at least 10% of all global e-commerce B2C transactions, (2) become one of the top three players in the money transfer industry, and (3) acquire a store of value reputation close to silver. Bitcoin is lodging into people's minds, and not just as some theoretical amusement that might one day be meaningful, but as something that can be defined and judged against benchmarks. As such, Woo's note represents the biggest endorsement of Bitcoin to date.
Reuters/ Fred Prouser The entire financial TV industry is in a state of flux. The Wall Street Journal¬†recently reported¬†on the dismal ratings at CNBC, Fox Business, and Bloomberg. Bloomberg, meanwhile, is in the midst of some kind reassessment of its TV business, and there's widespread apprehension there about what the next direction is for the network. And the big momentous event was the recent departure of Maria Bartiromo from CNBC to Fox Business.  Bartiromo is the biggest star in financial TV history, and her leaving the biggest network to go to a much smaller rival is a major moment. So what's the mood at CNBC following this departure?  One person who was at CNBC headquarters the day after Bartiromo's departure actually described a widespread sense of "relief." It's not that Bartiromo was disliked. ¬†It's that CNBC, according to multiple sources, is an insanely competitive place internally, especially with respect to¬†booking guests. And Bartiromo often had a lock on the best guests, leaving other reporters, anchors, and producers out in the cold. One person familiar with the workings of CNBC, when asked about the environment, responded via email: "CNBC is SO COMPETITIVE ABOUT BOOKINGS. So much so that it always spilled over to infighting between shows."¬† Another former employee at CNBC described constant head-butts with Bartiromo over guests, and told us that well-known guests have complained about how if they ever went on another show on CNBC they would get angry phone calls about it. So basically, in an environment where everyone is extremely territorial about their guests, the departure of the network's most famous name frees up a lot of booking chances. It also frees up money ‚Äî Bartiromo's hefty salary ‚Äî that CNBC can now invest in other on-air talent. Bartiromo will almost certainly be able to help Fox Business get bigger guests, but she's unlikely to have is any kind of monopoly on them, the way she did at CNBC. This means the move might help Bloomberg a bit, too. Loyalty to Bartiromo and CNBC was one thing keeping some big names off of Bloomberg. Nobody, meanwhile, will have exclusive loyalty to Bartiromo at Fox, at least not in the beginning. So there's something for everyone with the Bartiromo move. CNBC frees up money, and the rest of the editorial staff get more opportunity. Fox Biz gets a big name and probably better guests. And Bloomberg now has one less roadblock to booking better guests. Win-win-win.

bitcoin.clarkmoody.comThe U.S. dollar price of Bitcoin surged in 2013. Bitcoin is starting to garner attention from some of Wall Street's top currency strategists. Today, David Woo, global head of rates and currencies research at BofA Merrill Lynch, published the bank's first report on the digital currency. "We believe Bitcoin can become a major means of payment for e-commerce and may emerge as a serious competitor to traditional money transfer providers," says Woo. "Assuming Bitcoin becomes (1) a major player in both e-commerce and money transfer and (2) a significant store of value with a reputation close to silver, our fair value analysis implies a¬†maximum market capitalization of Bitcoin of $15bn (1BTC = 1300 USD)." Steven Englander, global¬†head of¬†G-10 FX strategy at Citi, has also been mulling over Bitcoin's prospects. "I am trying to find a framework for analyzing Bitcoin and whether it can be seen as a currency," writes Englander in a note to clients this morning. "I am still struggling for reasons that will be apparent below, but it seems to me that the developers can limited the supply of Bitcoins but they cannot limit the supply of Bitcoin-like assets that use a similar technology and have similar characteristics. We are likely to end up with a lot of Bitcoin lookalikes with little to choose between them, so pricing becomes very difficult." Englander expands on this idea in the note: Unlike fine art, Bitcoin can be replicated exactly or close to it. Say in response to overwhelming demand for Bitcoin, someone created Nitcoin with similar properties except that mining a Nitcoin was twice as hard, and someone else (the Fed perhaps) created Gitcoin that could be mined at a fraction of the cost. You could argue that the relative exchange rates would be driven by the marginal costs of production at any point in time, although the volatility of Bitcoin so far suggests that the speculative motive dominates marginal production costs as a driver of price. My conjecture is that we will see big speculative swings as different ‚Äòcoins‚Äô are created and move in and out of fashion and some emerging concern that there is nothing to anchor them and nothing to stop their proliferation. At the end of the day, it seems to me that if they lose their anonymity and portability advantage, the difficulties in fundamental price determination will cause them to lose their attractiveness. You may ask why this is different from the dollar or any other currency. The answer is that in the US you have to accept a dollar as payment for goods and services, whereas you do not have to accept a Bitcoin, and certainly not 15 Bitcoin lookalikes. The combination of legal tender status and supply anchors the value of dollars in transactions in a way that Bitcoin will never be anchored. The dollar is legal tender by decree and in the long-term the current appeal of Bitcoin as being outside the Government will end up as a disadvantage rather than advantage, if there is no way to choose among Bitcoin alternatives. Englander acknowledges Bitcoin's early success, but he remains unconvinced that it can continue. "As of now, the Bitcoin has no real competition and the fascination part is immense," he says. "It is not disadvantaged by the lack of yield, since no G4 currency really pays one either. I am still skeptical, as it would seemingly be easy to launch an alternative." In fact, at least 54 Bitcoin clones have sprung up in recent months, and many of them are soaring in value.
Getty Images/Alex WongElizabeth Warren before a Congressional hearing.Yesterday Senator Elizabeth Warren †(D-MA) sent †a letter to every major Wall Street CEO, urging them to disclose their financial contributions to Washington think tanks in an "effort to†indirectly influence policymaking." She wants the American people to know how Wall Street wants its legislators to think ó the kind of research Wall Street's supporting, and the numbers and ideas about financial markets that that research is representing as objective. "When you use corporate resources to support think tanks there are only two possible outcomes from public disclosure ó those contributions do not influence the work of the think tanks or those contributions do influence the work of the think tanks' research and conclusions," Warren wrote. "Either way, shareholders have a right to know how corporate resources are spent, and even more importantly, policymakers and the public should be aware of your contributions and evaluate the work of the think tanks accordingly." Jamie Dimon might call this going "full kimono." Warren goes on to write that she knows Wall Street firms have the right to contribute to think tanks, but that the same transparency that's applied to donating money to †politicians †should be applied to donating money to think tanks that influence politicians by influencing the ideas floating around Washington. That, Warren argues, would be better for lawmakers, their constituents, and bank shareholders. In fact, she spends a lot of time saying that shareholders should know what kind of ideas Wall Street banks support.  That kind of language is an appeal to more than just her populist base, it's an appeal to investors on both sides of aisle looking for more transparency (calling all Tea Partiers?). Of course, Republicans don't love this. In his morning note, Politico's Ben White quoted a senior DC Republican who said Warren's letter was a "misstep" that smacked of McCarthy's "give names" edict ó a clumsy response to a single WSJ op-ed that disagreed with her political positions. It was written by the president and senior vice president of think tank, Third Way. The Third Way op-ed†urged Democrats to reject populist economic policy ideas, like those espoused by Senator Warren and soon-to-be NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio, because they would drive the party "off a cliff." But surely Warren's heard that before. You can read Warren's full letter here,†
Apple has signed a deal with the world's largest carrier, China Mobile, the Wall Street Journal reports. The deal should be announced December 18, but it's unclear when phones will go on sale. Apple's stock is up on the news in pre-market trading.† Apple analyst Gene Munster has a new note on what this means for Apple estimates. He says most analysts do not have a China Mobile deal factored into their estimates.† As a result, you can expect estimates to get bumped up, starting today.† Munster says China Mobile has 759 million subscribers, of which 176 million are "higher value 3G subscribers". For context, Verizon and AT&amp;T combined have 230 million subscribers.† Munster estimates China Mobile adds 17 million iPhone units to Apple's fiscal year 2014. (The December quarter is the first quarter of Apple's fiscal 2014.) An additional 17 million iPhone units is roughly equal to an additional 5% in revenue.† Munster's says Apple has 6% of the smartphone market in China, and he's estimating that it gets 2% of China Mobile's subscriber base, or 10% of the 3G base. This could be conservative considering how popular the iPhone is elsewhere, but he thinks it's fair because the iPhone is significantly more expensive than the average phone sold at China Mobile. "For China Mobile, the average unsubsidized smartphone cost ~ $270, which compares to Verizon at ~$449. Comparatively, the iPhone 5C unsubsidized costs $718 and the 5S costs $846," writes Munster. In terms of when Apple sells phones at China Mobile, he expects the sales to be loaded in first month or two of availability. So, if the phone is on sale at the end of this month, expect some sales, but the bulk of the sales will be in the first three months of next year.

TBIThe Department of Labor just released its latest tally of initial unemployment insurance claims, and the numbers look good for the job market. Initial claims fell to 298,000. This is down from last week's 321,000, which was revised up from an earlier reading of 316,000. Economists were expecting claims to come in at 320,000. The 4-week moving average fell to 322,250 from 330,000 a week ago. "While we continue to note that the tone in the initial claims data has been steadily improving over the past few months, we believe that seasonal volatility has recently led the data to overstate the true voracity of labor market improvement," said TD Securities Gennadity Goldberg. "We continue to see the ‚Äòtrue‚Äô trend in claims running at about 320-330K, but we are unlikely to see a fresh confirmation of this trend until strong seasonal volatility begins to unwind in early-February." U.S. futures have pulled back a bit on the news with S&amp;P futures slightly in the red after being up 2 points ahead of the report. Some market strategists have warned that stronger-than-expected economic data would likely encourage to the Fed to taper quantitative easing and raise rates sooner-than-expected.
Twitter/@cigoloThe second estimate of Q3 U.S. GDP by the Bureau of Economic Analysis is out. GDP growth was 3.6% at an annualized pace in the third quarter, way above the BEA's preliminary estimate of 2.8% and above Wall Street's consensus estimate of 3.1%. Personal consumption growth came in at 1.4%, below the preliminary estimate of 1.5%. The GDP price index was 2.0%, above the preliminary estimate of 1.9%, and core PCE was 1.5%, slightly higher than the preliminary estimate of 1.4%. However, the big story was the upward revision in inventories. Inventories increased $116.5 billion according to the second estimate, contributing 1.7 percentage points to the headline number, up from an initial estimate of $86 billion, which had contributed 0.8 percentage points to the initial 2.8% GDP growth estimate. Below is a breakdown of the data from the release: Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and services produced by labor and property¬†located in the United States -- increased at an annual rate of 3.6 percent in the third quarter of 2013 (that¬†is, from the second quarter to the third quarter), according to the "second" estimate released by the¬†Bureau of Economic Analysis. In the second quarter, real GDP increased 2.5 percent. The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete source data than were available for¬†the "advance" estimate issued last month. In the advance estimate, the increase in real GDP was 2.8¬†percent (see "Revisions" on page 3). With this second estimate for the third quarter, the increase in¬†private inventory investment was larger than previously estimated. The increase in real GDP in the third quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from¬†private inventory investment, personal consumption expenditures (PCE), exports, nonresidential fixed¬†investment, residential fixed investment, and state and local government spending that were partly offset¬†by a negative contribution from federal government spending. Imports, which are a subtraction in the¬†calculation of GDP, increased. The acceleration in real GDP growth in the third quarter primarily reflected an acceleration in¬†private inventory investment, a deceleration in imports, and an acceleration in state and local¬†government spending that were partly offset by decelerations in exports, in PCE, and in nonresidential¬†fixed investment. Stock and bond futures are down in the wake of the release.
Wikimedia CommonsCaracas, Venezuela is the most expensive place for foreigners, according to a new Cost of Living survey by consulting firm ECA International. Tokyo dropped from most expensive expatriate destination in the world to 10th as a softer¬†Yen caused several Japanese cities to be much less expensive than in 2012.¬† Tokyo and Beijing are the most expensive cities¬†in Asia. Costs in African cities are rising across the board. Tel Aviv is now the 24th most expensive (up from 46th) while Paris came in at 29th.  New York City stayed at 50. Interestingly, London is not on the list. ECA
Bank of America Merrill LynchThe game just changed. Bitcoin, the bizarre electronic currency that seemingly came out of nowhere and has been taking over financial market headlines, is now being covered by one of the biggest firms on Wall Street. "We believe Bitcoin can become a major means of payment for e-commerce and may emerge as a serious competitor to traditional money transfer providers," wrote Bank of America currency strategist David Woo in a 14-page note to clients this morning. "As a medium of exchange, Bitcoin has clear potential for growth, in our view." This extremely volatile "cryptocurrency" crashed from $1,240 to a low of $870 this morning after the People's Bank of China announced Bitcoin coin handling restrictions for its country's banks. Wall Street's coverage of Bitcoin seemed inevitable considering the amount of money moving in and out of it. Here's more from Woo: Store of wealth for the underground economy?It has been reported that Bitcoin may help users avoid high taxes, capital controls, and confiscation. The correlation between CNY's share of volume of all Bitcoin exchanges and price of Bitcoin is high and rising (Chart 1). That said, the fact that all Bitcoin transactions are publically available and that every Bitcoin has a unique transaction history that cannot be altered may ultimately limit its use in the black market/underworld. "Is Bitcoin a bubble?" asked Woo. "Assuming Bitcoin becomes (1) a major player in both e- commerce and money transfer and (2) a significant store of value with a reputation close to silver, our fair value analysis implies a maximum market capitalization of Bitcoin of $15bn (1BTC = 1300 USD). This suggests that the 100 fold increase in Bitcoin prices this year is at risk of running ahead of its fundamentals." We expect other Wall Street analysts to follow suit.
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachMario Draghi President of the European Central Bank (ECB) sits between Commerzbank CEO Martin Blessing (L) and Deutsche Bank Co-CEO Juergen Fitschen (R) prior to the start of the European Banking Congress at the old opera house in Frankfurt, November 22, 2013. Draghi said on Friday that in addition to national backstops, joint European backstops need to be in place before the ECB's bank tests are finished in one year's time. The tests are billed as the most rigorous assessments the banks have ever had, designed to remove doubts about their health after botched EU stress tests in 2010 and 2011 which failed to reveal major problems at some lenders.As expected, the ECB elected to leave the benchmark euro area refinancing rate unchanged in December at 0.25%, and the deposit rate unchanged at 0%. Last month, following the central bank's November governing council meeting, the ECB surprised market participants by cutting the rate from 0.50%. ECB president Mario Draghi will hold his monthly press conference and Q&amp;A with reporters beginning at 8:30 AM. "In the euro area, where the policy rate is close to the zero bound, the reaction function of the ECB has become increasingly difficult to calibrate," says Morgan Stanley economist Elga Bartsch. "On balance, we expect the ECB to lower the refi rate by 15bp in 1Q to just 10bp but leave the depo rate unchanged. But we see an almost 50-50 chance that the ECB will also push the depo rate below zero. It is clear from the press conference that such a step was debated at the November meeting. Eventually, the Governing Council decided against such an unprecedented step though ‚Äì most likely in recognition of the unintended consequences and potential unanticipated effects that a negative rate could have."
Margin Call screenshotPlanned layoffs by U.S. companies plunged 20.6% year-over-year to 45,314 in November. This is according to a recent survey by Challenger Gray &amp; Christmas. This number is down marginally from the 45,730 announced in October. "The retail industry saw the heaviest job cutting in November, with 9,998 announced layoffs during the month," wrote the firm. "While the spike in retail cuts heading into the holiday sales season might be cause for alarm, the majority of the planned cuts were related to the closure of remaining Blockbuster video rental stores, as well as the sell-off and closure of a grocery store chain in Chicago." "Many of the recent cuts have been concentrated in the mortgage lending business, as banks shed many of the extra workers added to handle the flood of foreclosures and loan refinancing in the wake of the recession," said John Challenger. "Recent increases in lending rates and home prices are also lowering demand for new mortgages, thus further reducing the need for additional workers." Here's a breakdown of job cuts by industries. Challenger Gray & Christmas
With just a few weeks left in the year it looks like weíre likely to end up with a relatively rare 25%+ year on the S&amp;P 500.† MKM Partners listed some interesting data about the unusual 25%+ year in the market and what we can expect following such a big move.† They said: ìWhat is unusual is that this year weíre following 2012 which was up 13%,î Krinsky says, noting that of the sixteen times the market has delivered that degree of upside since 1928, ìonly four them followed a year that was up 13% or more.îÖKrinsky also points out that, more often than not, these type of outsized years tend to spill over into the following year, writing that ìOverall, following an up 25% year, the following year is higher 66% of the time, for an average move of +5.47%.î Pragmatic Capitalism Thereís a few interesting things here.†† That average change in the S&amp;P is actually about HALF of the average annual return of 11.5% since 1928.† Further, of the 4 years where there was a 12% and subsequent 25%+ year (as we currently have), all were relatively extreme.† In the 1945 market the 25%+ year was followed by a -11.3% decline while the 1989 market was followed by a -6.56% year.† The other two years with back to back 12%+ and 25%+ years were both followed by big booms during the Nasdaq bubble.† So one might conclude that the market is likely to move substantially in one direction or the other in the coming year. But does this data really tell us anything all that useful.† Call me skeptical.† I donít find such small datasets particularly useful.† John Templeton once said that the four most dangerous words in investing were ìitís different this timeî.† But I actually think itís always different this time.† We have to study each market environment as if itís its own unique environment.† And that means the past can give us some idea of whatís to come, but I would be hesitant about weighting oneís portfolio based on such data.
Investing in a multitude of markets and companies as we do within the Templeton Emerging Markets Group means that at any given point in time it may appear¬†to some that they¬†are underperforming or outperforming any particular benchmark index or market. Such is the nature of global financial markets. Of course, we‚Äôd like all of our investments to go straight up, but at the same time continually like to find new bargains for investors. So having all stocks in a given market all go up is not necessarily a good thing when you are looking for values. In addition, we recognize that sometimes conviction is required to weather short-term setbacks when we believe a long-term investment case can be made for a particular stock. We embrace those setbacks as opportunities to snap up potential bargains. Unfortunately, many investors today seem to lack patience, and may be losing patience with some emerging markets in Asia this year‚Äî China is perhaps the largest case-in-point. From a macroeconomic viewpoint, our optimism for Asian markets‚Äô strong long-term potential is based on three main factors.¬†First, when compared with developed markets generally, Asia‚Äôs emerging markets have had higher rates of historic economic growth, and growth expectations for the year ahead are generally higher as well. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) projects growth in developing Asia of 6.5% in 2014, compared with 2% in developed markets generally.1 Since 1999, the region has seen strong growth even in 2009 when developed markets fell into recession, as you can see in the chart below. Franklin Templeton The second factor is the high level of foreign reserves we generally find in emerging markets in Asia, which exceeds developed markets in general. Strong public and private finances reinforce the underlying potential from economic growth. The third factor is that generally, debt levels in Asian emerging markets are much lower than those in developed markets.¬† In spite of what we generally consider to be their strong fundamentals, emerging market equities have generally¬†been trading on lower valuations recently than developed market equities, while offering similar dividend yields. As of 31 October 2013, the 12-month forward price-to-earnings ratio of the MSCI AC Asia ex-Japan Index was 11 times, versus 14 times for the MSCI World Index,2 which means that investors potentially can buy more earnings at a lower price in these Asian emerging markets. Additionally, emerging Asia‚Äôs demographics are generally more favorable, with many young people entering the work force. In most of the developed world, the proportion of the population at or nearing retirement is rising quickly. These advantageous demographics could have particular significance for consumer sectors. For example, as Asian consumers grow wealthier, their demand for passenger cars and other consumer products could be expected to rise. Per capita car ownership in huge markets such as China and India is a fraction of that in developed markets.¬†Bringing Chinese and Indian car ownership up to current US levels could require almost a billion new cars to be produced. It‚Äôs only one example of the significant potential we see in these markets. Franklin Templeton¬† Franklin Templeton The Virtue of Patience As bottom-up stock pickers, we focus on individual companies. We have identified many companies that may be in weaker markets but that we think are doing the right things, including cost-cutting, streamlining operations and engaging in M&amp;A activity. Many emerging market companies have been acquiring targets not only in other emerging markets but in many developed markets as well. Other investor-friendly policies include share buybacks, increasing dividends, improving corporate governance standards, and so on. We are long-term investors and focus on five-year horizons. We are patient enough to wait for the market to potentially recognize the true value of a company. We will not sell a holding simply because it is temporarily out of favor with the market. We will only consider selling a stock if one of the following occurs: ‚Ä¢ The current security price exceeds our estimation of full value ‚Ä¢ Significantly greater value potential exists in another similar security ‚Ä¢ A fundamental change occurs at a company to alter our forecasts China  Despite what we think are positive long-term fundamentals, performance in China‚Äôs domestic equity market has been disappointing this year. Many are fixating on slowing growth, but certainly, China‚Äôs expected growth rate of 7 ‚Äì 8%3 this year still looks impressive to us, particularly considering the base of the economy has grown dramatically over the past decade. And, it is to be expected that China‚Äôs growth would slow as its economy grows and shifts to a domestic-led model in the future from an export-driven one in the past. It seems the market has been placing too much emphasis on China‚Äôs short-term economic data releases. In September, the economic data flow failed to sustain the very buoyant signals seen in July and August. Export data were somewhat softer, while industrial production and fixed asset investment growth slowed a little. Toward the end of October, once again, the People‚Äôs Bank of China chose not to inject liquidity to ease a seasonal tightening in interbank liquidity, and Chinese interbank lending rates moved higher, which also served to dampen market sentiment. However, domestic consumption remained buoyant, while data on power consumption and metal imports suggested that activity remained elevated. China‚Äôs third-quarter gross domestic product (GDP) growth at 7.8% year-on-year showed an acceleration on the second-quarter pace. The planned reforms announced at China‚Äôs November plenary meeting have already had a positive impact on investor sentiment, as is shown by the subsequent performance of Chinese and China-related stocks. Key developments include expected state-owned enterprise (SOE) reforms, land reform, fiscal tax reforms, financial liberalization, environmental conservation and relaxation of the one-child policy. ‚ÄúHukou‚Äù system reform would accelerate China‚Äôs household registration system, which aims to transition rural dwellers to urban residents. The government has also pledged to reduce interventions on investment entry and resource pricing. Indonesia and India  Nearly all emerging markets took a hit this summer amid speculation the US Federal Reserve Bank (Fed) would soon begin ‚Äútapering‚Äù its prolonged asset purchase plan, which had pumped large amounts of liquidity into the markets globally. When you hear about this ‚Äútapering‚Äù of the Fed‚Äôs $85 billion monthly bond purchases, it‚Äôs important to understand the facts. Tapering isn‚Äôt the same as tightening. The Fed-fueled liquidity already pumped in is still working through the system. Additionally, Japan and other global central banks are printing money, adding to the pot. Indonesia and India are two countries that were severely affected by Fed taper concerns, since these countries need these funds to finance their relatively higher current account deficits. In the case of India, some policy missteps there have also weakened investor sentiment. We think there is still potential in India and are hopeful its leaders can turn the ship around, but we think they are moving too slowly. In our view, there is too much bureaucracy, and the barriers to investment in India are still too high.¬† However, our view on Indonesia has not changed, despite some panic selling in its market this year.¬†We were and remain positive on the market there due to what we view as the country‚Äôs strong long-term fundamentals, and we continue to search for opportunities on an individual basis, looking for undervalued Indonesian stocks. Indonesia‚Äôs leaders have recognized the need to revitalize their economy, and have announced plans to allow foreign investment in airports and ports, a positive step. We anticipate further efforts to facilitate foreign investment. We can‚Äôt predict the timing or magnitude of market ups and downs, but one thing we do know: market volatility is here to stay. Our focus is on searching for value where we see long-term potential when others may have lost faith, and then¬†hold on for the ride. ¬† 1. Source: ‚ÄúWorld Economic Outlook,‚Äù October 2013. ¬© 2013. By International Monetary Fund (IMF).¬† All Rights Reserved. 2. Source: MSCI. MSCI makes no express or implied warranties or representations and shall have no liability whatsoever with respect to any MSCI data contained herein. The MSCI data may not be further redistributed or used as a basis for other indices or any securities or financial products. This report is not approved, reviewed or produced by MSCI. Indexes are unmanaged, and one cannot invest directly in an index. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. 3. Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, October 2013. China 2013 GDP growth estimated at 7.6%. Copyright ¬© 2013 International Monetary Fund. All Rights Reserved. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª

JohnGoode / FlickrLONDON (Reuters) - Britain's government announced the biggest upgrade to official growth projections in more than a decade on Thursday, following the UK economy's surprisingly strong turnaround. In a budget update, finance minister George Osborne said the economy was on track to grow by 1.4 percent this year - more than double the 0.6 percent penciled in at the time of the March budget. Growth in 2014, he said, was expected to be 2.4 percent, up from the previous estimate of 1.8 percent. Having been a laggard for several years, Britain has overtaken its euro zone peers to become one of the fastest-growing advanced economies in the world. However, the economy remains smaller than it was before the financial crisis, which is not the case for most of Britain's trading partners. (Reporting by Christina Fincher; Editing by Susan Fenton)
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonA man stands next to ATMs inside a JP Morgan Chase bank branch in New York.NEW YORK/BOSTON (Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co is warning some 465,000 holders of prepaid cash cards issued by the bank that their personal information may have been accessed by hackers who attacked its network in July. The cards were issued for corporations to pay employees and for government agencies to issue tax refunds, unemployment compensation and other benefits. JPMorgan said on Wednesday it detected that its web servers used by its site www.ucard.chase.com had been breached in the middle of September. It then fixed the issue and reported it to law enforcement. Bank spokesman Michael Fusco said that in the months since the breach was discovered the bank has been investigating to find out exactly which accounts were involved and what pieces of information could have been taken. He declined to discuss how the attackers breached the bank's network. Fusco said the bank is notifying the cardholders, who account for about 2 percent of its roughly 25 million UCard users, about the breach because it cannot rule out the possibility that their personal information was among the data removed from its servers. The bank typically keeps the personal information of its customers encrypted, or scrambled, as a security precaution. However, during the course of the breach, personal data belonging to those customers had temporarily appeared in plain text in files the computers use to log activity. The bank believes "a small amount" of data was taken, but not critical personal information such as social security numbers, birth dates and email addresses. Cyber criminals covet such data because it can be used to open bank accounts, obtain credit cards and engage in identity theft. Many states require banks to notify customers if they believe there is any chance that such information may have been taken in a breach. The bank is also offering the cardholders a year of free credit-monitoring services. The warning only affects the bank's UCard users, not holders of debit cards, credit cards or prepaid Liquid cards. Fusco said the bank has not found that any funds were stolen as a result of the breach and that it has no evidence that other crimes have been committed. As a result, it is not issuing replacement cards. The spokesman declined to identify the government agencies and businesses whose customers it had warned about the breach. Fox 8 News in New Orleans reported on its website that three Louisiana agencies were notified by the bank on Wednesday that the personally identifiable information of some state citizens may have been exposed. State officials could not be reached for comment late Wednesday. The bank said it does not know who was behind the attack, though the Secret Service and FBI are investigating the matter. Businesses and government agencies are increasingly using prepaid cards because they are easier to cash than paper checks. Yet the vast stores of data behind payment cards of all kinds have created new risks. In 2007 some 41 million credit and debit card numbers from major retailers, including the owner of T.J. Maxx stores, were stolen. In May of this year U.S. prosecutors said a global cybercrime ring had stolen $45 million from banks by hacking into credit card processing firms and withdrawing money from automated teller machines in 27 countries. ¬†(Reporting by David Henry in NEW YORK and Jim Finkle in BOSTON; Editing by Christopher Cushing)
Wikimedia CommonsThe former president of the Dutch Central Bank, Nout Wellink, has told students at the University of Amsterdam that the hype around bitcoin is worse than his country's Tulip mania in the 17th century. "Sooner or later the facade will fall", Wellink said, calling bitcoin "pure speculation" and "hype" according to comments reported in the Dutch press. "This is worse than the tulip mania," he continued. "At least then you got a tulip [at the end], now you get nothing." Wellink's comments follow a warning from the Dutch Central Bank about the risks of virtual currencies like bitcoin, which fall outside Dutch financial supervision laws. ‚ÄúThe exchange rate is volatile and there is no central issuer which may be held liable,‚Äù the bank warned. It also cautioned that the country's deposit guarantee scheme "does not apply.‚Äù Tulip mania was one of the first recorded speculative bubbles. Over the course of four years in Holland, the price of tulips increased 200 times; at the peak of the bubble, a single bulb could sell for ten times a worker's annual wage. Then, in just one month, the bubble burst, and the price dropped to nearly nothing. ‚Ä¢ Somewhere in a landfill in Newport is a hard drive containing ¬£4.5m in bitcoin This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Bitcoin prices fell from a high of $1,240 to a low of $870 this morning. This is according to data from Bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox. That $370 drop can by characterized as a 30% crash. Earlier today, the People's Bank of China warned that the controversial electronic currency carried risk. It also instructed financial institutions not to trade it. "Is this a bubble in Bitcoin?" asked former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan Wednesday on Bloomberg. "Yeah it's a bubble." "This is worse than the tulip mania," said Nout Wellink, former president of the Dutch Central Bank. "At least then you got a tulip [at the end], now you get nothing." Bitcoin has bounced back a bit and it's currently straddling the $1,000 level, which means it's down by around 20% from its high. Here's a look at the chart from Clark Moody. Clark Moody
Robert McNallyIs Bitcoin the new gold? Some former gold bugs certainly think so. And its value has skyrocketed in recent months. But many readers at this point are probably wondering ... what exactly is Bitcoin? Robert McNally, an iOS developer at parking payment startup QuickPay, gave the following presentation to last year's Hackers' Conference in Santa Cruz, answering exactly that question.¬† With his kind permission, we have republished it here.¬†
REUTERS/Toru Hanai Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe claps his hands during the Lower House plenary session of the parliament in Tokyo, November 26, 2013.TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's cabinet approved a $182 billion economic package on Thursday to pull the economy out of deflation, but doubts remain about the economic impact. The package has a headline value of 18.6 trillion yen ($182 billion), which is an exaggerated figure as the bulk of the package includes loans from government-backed lenders and spending by local governments that was already scheduled. The core of the package is 5.5 trillion yen in spending measures Abe ordered in October to bolster the economy ahead of a national sales-tax hike in April, and the government does not have to sell new debt to fund this spending. The package has raised concerns that Japan's government has not broken away from the stop-gap measures and piecemeal policymaking that some say has hampered long-term growth. "Market participants want the government to focus even more energy on economic policy," said Hiroshi Miyazaki, senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. "Some of these items, like reconstruction from the earthquake, were already scheduled and don't really constitute an economic strategy." The measures approved on Thursday will add 1 percentage point to gross domestic product and create around 250,000 jobs, according to the Cabinet Office. Miyazaki was less optimistic, saying the measures may only contribute around 0.4 percentage point as a lot of the direct government payouts to the elderly and families will go straight to savings. The steps approved on Thursday include measures to boost competitiveness; assist women, youth and the elderly; accelerate reconstruction from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami; and build infrastructure for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. The overall size of the package is on a par with Abe's 20 trillion yen burst of spending early this year as part of his campaign to end 15 years of falling prices and tepid growth. The headline figure usually announced by the Japanese government on economic measures often includes spending that has already been committed, and tends to far exceed the amount of actual new government spending. New debt issuance is not required as new spending will be covered by tax revenues that have exceeded initial budget projections due to the economic recovery, as well as using unspent funds from other accounts. ($1 = 102.6550 Japanese yen) (Reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Kim Coghill)
Reuters/Mario AnzuoniMarkets are flat, early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.04%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.09%. Germany's DAX is up 0.04%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.07%. Those moves are so minute that they're hardly worth reporting. This comes as the world continues to consider the possibility that the Federal Reserve will soon let up on its easy monetary policy by tapering its quantitative easing program. Later this morning, the U.S. will release its latest tally of initial jobless claims and its second estimate of Q3 GDP.
BEIJING (AP) ‚Äî Bitcoins suffered a new setback after China's central bank said Thursday its banks and payment systems are barred from handling the virtual currency. The central bank said bitcoins did not qualify as a currency but private individuals still are allowed to trade them at their own risk. Bitcoins are created, distributed, and authenticated independently of any bank or government. Their relative anonymity holds out the promise of being able to spend money across the Internet without scrutiny. "Bitcoins are virtual goods that have no legal status or monetary equivalent and should not be used as currency," said a Chinese central bank statement. It said financial institutions and payment systems were not allowed use bitcoin prices for products and could not sell, trade or store bitcoins. "Ordinary people are free to participate in transactions at their own risk," the central bank said. Despite wild swings in value, the virtual currency has been moving toward broader acceptance. A growing number of companies accept bitcoins, which can be converted into cash. Last month, the biggest private university in Cyprus said it would accept bitcoins for tuition. But other governments are wary of the cybercurrency. In July, Thailand's central bank banned trading and use of bitcoins. Bitcoins are actively traded in China, possibly due to relatively limited options for investment. Just over 2 million bitcoins were traded over the past month on China's biggest exchange, BTC China, according to bitcoincharts.com, which follows trading in the cybercurrency. This week, Chinese police announced the detention of three people operating an online bitcoin trading platform who are suspected of stealing investors' assets. Operators told users the platform based in the eastern province of Zhejiang allowed them to trade bitcoins like stocks, according to the official Xinhua News Agency. Users may have lost as much as 25 million yuan ($4 million) when the platform shut down in October, Xinhua said. In Cyprus, the country's biggest private university said last month it will begin accepting bitcoins for tuition. Also last month, the U.S. Federal Election Commission said political organizations cannot accept contributions in the form of bitcoins. The commission's chairwoman cited the possibility of foreign or anonymous donations, which both would be illegal, flowing to candidates or outside political groups. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
