A gaming software company behind anti-cheating software for the popular Counterstrike game has been fined $1 million after a software update secretly added code that would mine for bitcoin without the users' knowledge, Robert McMillan of Wired reports. About 14,000 customers of E-Sports Entertainment Association (ESEA) were infected by the code, which mined about 30 bitcoins over a period of two weeks. The company blamed a rogue engineer for the malicious code. The software was designed to mine the cryptocurrency only when people weren't active on their computers, according to Forbes' Kashmir Hill. But one gamer noticed his computer was working much harder than usual and warned others of a possible Bitcoin botnet in April. “These defendants illegally hijacked thousands of people’s personal computers without their knowledge or consent, and in doing so gained the ability to monitor their activities, mine for virtual currency that had real dollar value, and otherwise invade and damage their computers," said Acting N.J. Attorney General John Hoffman, in a press release. From Wired: Though they reached a settlement, ESEA and the New Jersey AG disagree over the facts of the case. The AG’s office says that company co-founder Eric Thunberg and software engineer Sean Hunczak were both involved in the scam. In a statement posted to its website, ESEA said the software was the work of a single engineer, presumably Hunczak, adding that the “press release issued by the Attorney General about our settlement represents a deep misunderstanding of the facts of the case, the nature of our business, and the technology in question.” The company must pay $325,000 of the fine upfront, but will be required to pay the rest if they are caught misbehaving in the next ten years.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Short-seller Jim Chanos said Tuesday it is time for typical equity investors to be "a little more cautious" even as the stock market may continue to rise. Chanos, speaking the Reuters Global Investment Outlook Summit in New York said his fund Kynikos Associatesis "very bearish on coal" and he is "pretty much short" all the U.S. leveraged coal companies. Chanos also said he was bearish on national oil companies and the integrated majors like Exxon-Mobil, which he said are experiencing a "dropping return on capital" that "is really ominous." The famous short-seller said Exxon-Mobil and other oil companies like it increasingly look like "value trap." He also said investors would be "well warned" to analyze Caterpillar Inc's financial unit.\
(Reuters) - A former trader was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison on Tuesday for an unauthorized purchase of about $1 billion in Apple Inc stock that eventually led to the demise of financial services firm Rochdale Securities. David Miller, 41, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Robert Chatigny in Hartford,Connecticut, seven months after pleading guilty to wire fraud and conspiracy. Prosecutors said Miller, of Rockville Centre, New York, conspired with another individual to buy 1.625 million Apple shares on October 25, 2012, the same day that the company planned to report third-quarter results, in the hopes that the share price would rise. The alleged co-conspirator was not named in court papers. Miller falsely told Rochdale the trade was for a customer who had, in fact, only asked to buy 1,625 shares, prosecutors said. When the gamble failed, Rochdale faced $5.3 million in losses on the additional unauthorized shares, leaving the firm undercapitalized, according to a related civil lawsuit filed against Miller by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result, the firm eventually collapsed, the SEC said. Rochdale, which was based inStamford, Connecticut, was not a defendant in either case and did not face allegations of wrongdoing. Prosecutors also said Miller defrauded another brokerage by convincing it to sell 500,000 shares of Apple to hedge against the purchase he had made at Rochdale. The second brokerage, which prosecutors said was able to trade out of the position at a profit, was not identified in court papers. Miller deeply regrets the harm his actions caused, said his defense attorney Kenneth Murphy. "As we said on the day of his plea, this was a good and decent man who had led an otherwise exemplary life who acted out of desperation rather than greed," he said. "Judge Chatigny saw this to be the case and gave David a fair and reasonable sentence considering all these factors." The cases are U.S. v. Miller, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut, No. 12-mj-00288; and SEC v. Miller in the same court, No. 13-00522. (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Doina Chiacu and Ryan Woo)
Quick heads up. Markets have started Wednesday doing nothing. US futures are basically flat, as is Japan. Nikkei.com Ben Bernanke gave a speech this evening discussing monetary policy, but none of it had too much impact on anything.
REUTERS/ Tim ChongAt the Annual Dinner of the National Economists Club, Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke gave a speech that walked through the reasoning for all of the Fed's big actions since the financial crisis. He explained why the Fed has used unconventional monetary policy in the aftermath of the Great Recession. The ultimate goals of these policies has been to shape the public's policy expectations to convince it that it would  keep policy loose for an extended period of time. Here are the key themes he talked about: Forward Guidance Bernanke emphasized the importance of clearly articulating the future of Fed policy using forward guidance. This was particularly true after the great recession when the Fed's usual policy tool, short-term interest rates, had limited effectiveness due to the zero-lower bound. The FOMC attempted to lower long-term rates by communicating to the market that short-term rates would be low for a long period of time. This was the goal of forward guidance. At first, the Fed did this in a qualitative sense, but eventually started using more date-specific guidance to communicate to the market. However, this guidance also had its own limitation: Although the date-based forward guidance appears to have affected the public's expectations as desired, it did not explain how future policy would be affected by changes in the economic outlook--an important limitation. Indeed, the date in the guidance was pushed out twice in 2012--first to late 2014 and then to mid-2015--leaving the public unsure about whether and under what circumstances further changes to the guidance might occur. To offset this, the Fed recently moved to a more state-contingent guidance, noting that the Fed would not consider raising rates while unemployment was above 6.5% and inflation was near 2%. Bernanke emphasized these were thresholds, not triggers, meaning that hitting the targets would not automatically cause rate increases but were a necessary level for rates to rise.  Large Scale Asset Purchases (LSAPs) The Fed also implemented a new, unconventional monetary policy tool that had the same goal of lowering long-term rates, but did so in a different manner. Instead of credibly informing the market that short-term rates would be low for a longer period of time, LSAPs reduced long-term rates by purchasing securities. This reduces the supply and drives up the value of them, lowering rates. Bernanke lays this dual strategy of forward guidance and LSAPs clearly in his speech: [F]orward rate guidance affects longer-term interest rates primarily by influencing investors' expectations of future short-term interest rates. LSAPs, in contrast, most directly affect term premiums... As both forward rate guidance and LSAPs affect longer-term interest rates, the use of these tools allows monetary policy to be effective even when short-term interest rates are close to zero The FOMC also has attempted to credibly communicate to the market "the criteria that would inform future decisions about the program." The goal of this was to keep market expectations in line with the Fed's future plan of actions. To do this, Bernanke laid out the baseline state of the economy at which the Fed would begin to reduce its asset purchases. In June, the chairman said that if the market continued to improve at a moderate pace as it had been, then it would begin tapering later in the year and conclude its asset purchases in mid-2014. Bernanke emphasized that this was not a pre-determined plan, but was data-dependent. The market didn't listen: Market participants may have taken the communication in June as indicating a general lessening of the Committee's commitment to maintain a highly accommodative stance of policy in pursuit of its objectives. In particular, it appeared that the FOMC's forward guidance for the federal funds rate had become less effective after June, with market participants pulling forward the time at which they expected the Committee to start raising rates, in a manner inconsistent with the guidance The market priced in a September taper, despite the fact that it would depend on how the economic data would unfold in the ensuing months. This was not what the Fed intended to communicate in June and caused tightened financial conditions in the housing market. When the data came in below the baseline level that Bernanke laid out in June, the Fed did not reduce its asset purchases. As Bernanke says, this was "fully consistent with the earlier guidance." Since then, market expectations have realigned with the Fed with the market more focused on the data and applying the Fed's framework to it to predict future Fed policy: Although the FOMC's decision came as a surprise to some market participants, it appears to have strengthened the credibility of the Committee's forward rate guidance; in particular, following the decision, longer-term rates fell and expectations of short-term rates derived from financial market prices showed, and continue to show, a pattern more consistent with the guidance. This speech succinctly summed up all of the Fed's actions under Bernanke. It used forward guidance and LSAPs to attempt to lower long-term rates, because short-term rates were pushed up against the zero lower bound. It has become more transparent and attempted to clearly communicate the framework for its future policy decisions to credibly convince the market that policy will remain loose for a considerable period of time. As Bernanke said at the beginning of his speech, "the public's expectations about future monetary policy actions matter today because those expectations have important effects on current financial conditions, which in turn affect output, employment, and inflation over time." This has been the ultimate goal of his time as chairman. Read Bernanke's whole speech here &gt;
ABC via IMDBFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How To Build A Practice That Caters To Physicians (Advisor Perspectives)  Doctors are wealthy but a hard group for advisors to tap because they spend long hours working and rely on referrals from other doctors, writes Greg Stokes in Advisor Perspectives. To "ingratiate" themselves to doctors, advisors should understand their needs. Advisors should also be able to help them prepare for the eventuality that their surgical skills will diminish. They need to factor in that doctors often have large student loan debt. But there are factors to consider as well. "From an in-depth comprehension of the effect of the Affordable Care Act on physicians to being able to provide physicians with advice about how to capitalize on new payment models, successful advisors must go beyond the traditional advisor-client role."  Advisor Group That Managed $700 Million Leaves Merrill Lynch (Investment News)  The Andriole Group, a team of advisors that managed $700 million in clients assets, has left Merrill Lynch Wealth Management for Chicago-based HighTower Advisors, according to Trevor Hunnicutt at Investment News. The team includes Charles Andriole, Geoffrey G. Gregory, Robert A. DeLucca and Matthew J. Montana. How The Correlation Between Stocks And Bonds Has Changed With Each New QE Program From The Fed (Societe Generale)   During QE3, the Fed's asset purchase program, we've seen that when bond yields rise, so do equity prices and vice-versa. A chart from Societe Generale's fixed income strategists shows the effects of QE programs on bonds and stocks.  "We have currently reached a new peak in equities, and the 'beta' — that is, the strength of the relationship for equity prices to rise as bond yields rise (the coefficient on 'x' in the regression equation) — is probably unsustainably high as the Fed tapers asset purchases over the next six months," write the SocGen strategists in a note to clients. "Based on the QE3 regression equation, the projected level of the Dow for a 10-year Treasury yield at 3.00% is 15,916; for 3.25% it’s 16,338; and for a 10-year Treasury yield at 3.50%, the Dow would be at 16,760, or 5% higher than it is right now. We don’t expect equity prices to dive, but we do suspect that in 2014 as the Fed eventually tapers asset purchases, the level of bond yields will rise and equity prices will be volatile, moving roughly sideways for a time while both markets re-adjust." SG Cross Asset Research Advisors Need To Be Wary Of The Risks Foreign Stocks Bring (The Wall Street Journal) Advisors need to be more aware of the risk foreign stocks bring to their clients' portfolio. "Vendors like to say that you should set your allocation to foreign stocks based on the percentage of U.S. stocks in world equity markets," writes David Loeper of Virginia-based Wealthcare Capital Management in a new Wall Street Journal column.  Foreign stocks carry currency risks and bring additional expenses and taxes with them. Moreover it's important to remember that stock performance isn't correlated with GDP growth. "To come up with a truly foreign portfolio, you would have to go through and look at the source of income and profits of each individual company by what country they derived those profits. And nobody does that." How To Use Insurance To Facilitate A Business Succession Plan (WealthManagement.com) Business owners may sometimes not have children that want to take on their business or it might be hard to equally distribute it among the heirs. In that instance, "a life insurance policy can provide cash to even out distributions," writes John McManus in WealthManagement.com.  "For businesses that have significant cash flow needs, or for clients with substantial real estate holdings that function as a business, a life insurance policy can guarantee liquidity to cover maintenance expenses–a worry no one wishes on grieving loved ones. "Insurance is an essential component of businesses with multiple partners and buy/sell agreements to ensure that the surviving partners have liquidity to buy out the interest of the family of a deceased partner."
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke just gave what is likely to be one of his last speeches as Chair. And the markets are applauding it. S&amp;P 500 futures jumped by around 0.3%. In one sentence, Bernanke simultaneously reiterated his outlook for monetary policy while endorsing incoming Chair Janet Yellen. "The economy has made significant progress since the depths of the recession," he said. "However, we are still far from where we would like to be, and, consequently, it may be some time before monetary policy returns to more normal settings. I agree with the sentiment, expressed by my colleague Janet Yellen at her testimony last week, that the surest path to a more normal approach to monetary policy is to do all we can today to promote a more robust recovery." Here's the move in Dow futures via FinViz. FinViz
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueChairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke listens during an open meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, December 14, 2012. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke is speaking at the National Economists Club Annual Dinner tonight. "The economy has made significant progress since the depths of the recession," he said. "However, we are still far from where we would like to be, and, consequently, it may be some time before monetary policy returns to more normal settings. "I agree with the sentiment, expressed by my colleague Janet Yellen at her testimony last week, that the surest path to a more normal approach to monetary policy is to do all we can today to promote a more robust recovery." Bernanke highlighted the importance of improved transparency and better communications in delivering monetary policy. "In response to a financial crisis and a deep recession, the Fed's monetary policy communications have proved far more important and have evolved in different ways than I would have envisioned eight years ago," he said. "Communication about policy is likely to remain a central element of the Federal Reserve's efforts to achieve its policy goals. " Here's the full text of his speech: Communication and Monetary Policy Nearly eight years ago, when I began my time as Chairman, one of my priorities was to make the Federal Reserve more transparent--and, in particular, to make monetary policy as transparent and open as reasonably possible. I believed then, as I do today, that transparency in monetary policy enhances public understanding and confidence, promotes informed discussion of policy options, increases the accountability of monetary policymakers for reaching their mandated objectives, and ultimately makes policy more effective by tightening the linkage between monetary policy, financial conditions, and the real economy. Of course, responding to the financial crisis and its aftermath soon became the Federal Reserve's main focus. As it has turned out, however, following the stabilization of the financial system, supporting our economy's recovery from the deepest recession since the Great Depression has required a more prominent role for communication and transparency in monetary policy than ever before. In my remarks, I will discuss how the Federal Reserve's communications have evolved in recent years and how enhanced transparency is increasing the effectiveness of monetary policy. Despite the challenges inherent in communicating in an unprecedented economic and policy environment about a future that can be only imperfectly foreseen, I will explain why I believe that policy transparency remains an essential element of the Federal Reserve's strategy for meeting its economic objectives. Policy Frameworks and Communication To understand the critical role that the Federal Reserve's communications about monetary policy has played in recent years, it is useful to start by discussing the role of monetary policy communication more generally, including the relationship between policy communication and the broader policy framework. Making monetary policy is sometimes compared to driving a car, with policymakers pressing on the accelerator or the brakes, depending on whether the economy needs to be sped up or slowed down at that moment. That analogy is imperfect, however, for at least two reasons. First, the main effects of monetary policy actions on the economy are not felt immediately but instead play out over quarters or even years. Hence, unlike the driver of a car, monetary policymakers cannot simply respond to what lies immediately in front of them but must try to look well ahead--admittedly, a difficult task. Second, the effects of monetary policy on the economy today depend importantly not only on current policy actions, but also on the public's expectations of how policy will evolve. The automotive analogy clearly breaks down here, for it is as if the current speed of the car depended on what the car itself expects the driver to do in the future. The public's expectations about future monetary policy actions matter today because those expectations have important effects on current financial conditions, which in turn affect output, employment, and inflation over time. For example, because investors can choose freely between holding a longer-term security or rolling over a sequence of short-term securities, longer-term interest rates today are closely linked to market participants' expectations of how short-term rates will evolve. If monetary policymakers are expected to keep short-term interest rates low, then current longer-term interest rates are likely to be low as well, all else being equal. In short, for monetary policy, expectations matter. Indeed, expectations matter so much that a central bank may be able to help make policy more effective by working to shape those expectations. Experience demonstrates that a useful approach to managing expectations--one that dovetails well with basic principles of transparency--involves policymakers stating clear objectives as well as their plans for attaining those objectives. For example, over the past two decades, many central banks have introduced explicit numerical targets for inflation. Supplemented by regular publication of the central bank's economic forecasts and provisional plans for achieving its objective in the medium term, numerical inflation goals have helped increase the transparency and predictability of policy in a number of economies. In this spirit, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) has clarified the Federal Reserve's objectives and policy strategy. Because of its dual mandate from the Congress, which specifies both maximum employment and price stability as policy objectives, the Federal Reserve could not adopt a numerical inflation target as its exclusive goal. Nor would it have been appropriate for the FOMC simply to provide a fixed objective for some measure of employment or unemployment, in parallel with an inflation objective. In contrast to inflation, which is determined by monetary policy in the longer run, the maximum level of employment that can be sustained over the longer run is determined primarily by nonmonetary factors, such as demographics, the mix of workforce skills, labor market institutions, and advances in technology. Moreover, as these factors evolve, the maximum employment level may change over time. Consequently, it is beyond the power of the central bank to set a longer-run target for employment that is immutable or independent of the underlying structure of the economy.1 The approach on which the FOMC agreed is described in its statement of longer-run goals and policy strategy, issued in January 2012 and reaffirmed in January of this year.2 The statement begins by affirming the FOMC's commitment to meeting both of its statutory objectives. It then indicates that, in the context of the FOMC's dual mandate, the Committee sees price stability as corresponding to a 2 percent longer-term inflation goal. On the employment side of the mandate, the Committee makes its best assessment of the maximum level of employment at any given time, recognizing that such assessments are necessarily uncertain and subject to revision. In practice, the Committee often expresses its employment objective in terms of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment. Currently, FOMC participants' estimates of the longer-run normal unemployment rate, as publicly reported in the quarterly Summary of Economic Projections, range from 5.2 to 6 percent.3 As I noted, explicit objectives are most useful when accompanied by provisional plans for achieving them. Many central banks supplement their announced objectives with published forecasts that, implicitly or explicitly, lay out plans for achieving their goals. Although the size and diversity of the Federal Reserve's policymaking committee has made achieving a single consensus forecast difficult, the quarterly Summary of Economic Projections reports each FOMC participant's view of the most likely future paths of inflation, unemployment, and output growth, conditional on that individual's view of appropriate monetary policy. In recent years, this survey has also included participants' projections of the path of future short-term interest rates they see as most likely to achieve the Committee's goals. In general, the Committee's two objectives of maximum employment and price stability are complementary. When they are not, the FOMC has stated that it will pursue a balanced approach in the pursuit of its dual mandate, working to ensure that both inflation and employment are close to their desired values in the longer term. In short, the Federal Reserve, like many central banks around the world, has made significant progress in recent years in clarifying its goals and policy approach, and in providing regular information about the future path of policy that it views as most likely to attain its objectives. This increased transparency about the framework of policy has aided the public in forming policy expectations, reduced uncertainty, and made policy more effective. The financial crisis and its aftermath, however, have raised even greater challenges for, and demands on, the Federal Reserve's communication. We have had to contend with the persistent effects of the seizing-up of the financial system, the collapse of housing prices and construction, new financial shocks in Europe and elsewhere, restrictive fiscal policies at all levels of government, and, of course, the enormous blows to output and employment associated with the worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression. Moreover, for the first time since the FOMC began using the federal funds rate as its policy interest rate, that rate is effectively at zero and thus cannot be lowered meaningfully further. Consequently, to provide needed support to the economic recovery and minimize the risk of deflation, the Federal Reserve has had to adopt new policy tools, which bring their own communication challenges. In the remainder of my talk, I will discuss how the Federal Reserve has used communication to try to further inform the public's expectations about how the FOMC will employ what are currently its two principal policy tools: its plans regarding its short-term policy interest rate and its large-scale purchases of securities. Forward Guidance about Policy Interest Rates As the economy weakened over 2008, the FOMC repeatedly cut its target for the federal funds rate, its short-term policy rate. In December of that year, the target for the funds rate was reduced to a range of zero to 1/4 percent, and money market rates declined nearly to zero. Thus, using the standard means of further easing monetary policy--cutting the target interest rate--was no longer possible. The so-called zero lower bound on the FOMC's policy interest rate was not the only challenge the Committee faced. First, the depth of the recession, combined with ongoing concerns about the functioning of the financial system, raised significant uncertainties about both the likely pace of recovery and the effectiveness of monetary policy in supporting growth. The recoveries from most post-World War II U.S. recessions had been relatively rapid, with production, unemployment, and other key variables returning to close to normal levels within six to eight quarters. In such cases, the policy horizon most relevant to financial markets might be the next several quarters. In the aftermath of the recent crisis, however, the Committee had to consider the possibility that a highly accommodative policy might be required for a number of years. Second, a federal funds rate effectively at zero created an important asymmetry for policy planning. On the one hand, if the economy were to recover rapidly and inflation were to increase, monetary policymakers would be able to respond in the normal way, by raising the federal funds rate. But, on the other hand, if the economy were to remain weak or recover only gradually--the case we actually faced--the FOMC would not be able to cut the funds rate further. Moreover, in the latter case, the economy could face an increased risk of deflation--falling prices. As the case of Japan illustrates, deflation may impede economic growth while being very difficult to escape. To try to preempt such outcomes, a strong case existed for monetary policy to be more accommodative than suggested by standard policy rules calibrated to normal times.4 So the Committee faced a situation in which more monetary policy accommodation was needed, and possibly for quite a long time--yet its basic policy tool, the federal funds rate target, had been pushed to its limit. To put the Committee's problem another way, standard policy rules and a range of other analyses implied that, to achieve the FOMC's objectives, the target for the federal funds rate should be set well below zero, which, of course, was not feasible. Fortunately, as I discussed earlier, the degree of accommodation provided by monetary policy depends not just on the current value of the policy rate, but on public expectations of future settings of that rate. The Committee accordingly realized that it could ease policy further--and reduce uncertainty about future policy--by assuring the public and markets that it intended to keep the policy rate low for some time, and for a longer period than the public initially expected. At first, the Committee employed purely qualitative language to send this message: After the FOMC stated in December 2008 that it would likely be appropriate for the federal funds rate to remain near zero for "some time," it changed the formulation in March 2009 to "an extended period."5 However, such language did not convey very precisely the Committee's intentions. In August 2011, the Committee introduced a specific date into its guidance, stating that conditions would likely warrant keeping the federal funds rate target near zero at least through mid-2013.6 This date-based guidance was more precise than the qualitative language the Committee had been using, and it appears to have been effective in communicating the FOMC's commitment to a highly accommodative policy. In particular, following the introduction of dates into the FOMC statement, interest rates and survey measures of policy expectations moved in ways broadly consistent with the guidance.7 Although the date-based forward guidance appears to have affected the public's expectations as desired, it did not explain how future policy would be affected by changes in the economic outlook--an important limitation. Indeed, the date in the guidance was pushed out twice in 2012--first to late 2014 and then to mid-2015--leaving the public unsure about whether and under what circumstances further changes to the guidance might occur.8 In December of last year, the FOMC addressed this issue by tying its forward guidance about its policy rate more directly to its economic objectives.9 Introducing so-called state-contingent guidance, the Committee announced for the first time that no increase in the federal funds rate target should be anticipated so long as unemployment remained above 6-1/2 percent and inflation and inflation expectations remained stable and near target.10 This formulation provided greater clarity about the factors influencing the Committee's thinking about future policy and how that thinking might change as the outlook changed.11 As my colleagues and I have frequently emphasized, the conditions stated in this guidance are thresholds, not triggers. Crossing one of the thresholds will not automatically give rise to an increase in the federal funds rate target; instead, it will signal only that it is appropriate for the Committee to begin considering whether an increase in the target is warranted. This threshold formulation helps explain why the Committee was willing to express the guidance bearing on the labor market in terms of the unemployment rate alone, instead of following its usual practice of considering a broad range of labor market indicators. In the judgment of the Committee, the unemployment rate--which, despite some drawbacks in this regard, is probably the best single summary indicator of the state of the labor market--is sufficient for defining the threshold given by the guidance. However, after the unemployment threshold is crossed, many other indicators become relevant to a comprehensive judgment of the health of the labor market, including such measures as payroll employment, labor force participation, and the rates of hiring and separation. In particular, even after unemployment drops below 6-1/2 percent, and so long as inflation remains well behaved, the Committee can be patient in seeking assurance that the labor market is sufficiently strong before considering any increase in its target for the federal funds rate. Large-Scale Asset Purchases and Related Communication Because of the severity of the recession and the disruptions in financial markets, and because short-term interest rates were near the zero lower bound, it became clear early on that more monetary accommodation would be needed than could be provided through the management of short-term rates alone, even with guidance that those rates would be kept low well into the future. Accordingly, at about the same time that the FOMC reduced its target for the federal funds rate close to zero, it began supplementing its rate policies and forward rate guidance with large-scale asset purchases (LSAPs)--specifically, open market purchases of longer-term U.S. Treasury securities and securities issued by the government-sponsored enterprises, primarily mortgage-backed securities (MBS). Both LSAPs and forward guidance for the federal funds rate support the economy by putting downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, but they affect longer-term rates through somewhat different channels. To understand the difference, it is useful to decompose longer-term interest rates into two components: One reflects the expected path of short-term interest rates, and the other is called a term premium. The term premium is the extra return that investors require to be willing to hold a longer-term security to maturity compared with the expected yield from rolling over short-term securities for the same period. As I have noted, forward rate guidance affects longer-term interest rates primarily by influencing investors' expectations of future short-term interest rates. LSAPs, in contrast, most directly affect term premiums. As the Federal Reserve buys a larger share of the outstanding stock of longer-term securities, the quantity of these securities available for private-sector portfolios declines. As the securities purchased by the Fed become scarcer, they should become more valuable. Consequently, their yields should fall as investors demand a smaller term premium for holding them. This argument depends importantly on the assumption that the longer-term Treasury and MBS securities that the Fed buys are not perfectly substitutable with other types of assets, an assumption that seems well supported in practice.12 As both forward rate guidance and LSAPs affect longer-term interest rates, the use of these tools allows monetary policy to be effective even when short-term interest rates are close to zero. However, the Committee does not view these two tools as entirely equivalent. One reason is that we have much less experience with policies designed to operate on term premiums, as LSAPs do. As a result, though a strong majority of FOMC members believes that both the forward rate guidance and the LSAPs are helping to support the recovery, we are somewhat less certain about the magnitudes of the effects on financial conditions and the economy of changes in the pace of purchases or in the accumulated stock of assets on the Fed's balance sheet. Moreover, economists do not have as good an understanding as we would like of the factors determining term premiums; indeed, as we saw earlier this year, hard-to-predict shifts in term premiums can be a source of significant volatility in interest rates and financial conditions. LSAPs have other drawbacks not associated with forward rate guidance, including the risk of impairing the functioning of securities markets and the extra complexities for the Fed of operating with a much larger balance sheet, although I see both of these issues as manageable.13 In deciding to employ LSAPs, the FOMC has accordingly remained attentive to the possible costs and risks as well as to the efficacy of this less familiar tool, a point the Committee has regularly noted in its post-meeting statements. Of course, elevated unemployment, below-target inflation, lingering economic fragility, and the harmful effects of long-term unemployment on our society and economic potential also pose significant costs and risks, and the Committee has, thus far, judged that the balance favors the use of LSAPs. Between November 2008 and June 2012, the FOMC announced or extended a series of asset purchase programs, in each case specifying the expected quantities of assets to be acquired under the program. Like the use of date-based forward guidance, announcing a program of predetermined size and duration has advantages and disadvantages. On the one hand, a fixed program size is straightforward to communicate; on the other hand, a program of fixed size cannot so easily adapt to changes in the economic outlook and the consequent changes in the need for policy accommodation. In announcing its fixed-size programs, the FOMC did state a general willingness to do more if needed--and, indeed, it has followed through on that promise--but such statements left considerable uncertainty regarding the conditions that might warrant changes in an existing program or the introduction of a new one. In a step roughly analogous to the shift from date-based guidance to the contingent, thresholds-based guidance now in use for the federal funds rate target, in September 2012 the FOMC announced a program of asset purchases in which the total size of the purchase program would not be fixed in advance but instead would be linked to the Committee's economic objectives. In particular, the Committee initiated purchases of agency MBS at the rate of $40 billion per month and stated its intention to continue purchases until the outlook for the labor market improved substantially in a context of price stability.14 In December 2012, when a program to extend the maturity of the Fed's portfolio of Treasury securities came to an end, the FOMC added purchases of $45 billion per month in longer-term Treasury securities to the new program, bringing the monthly purchase rate to $85 billion, where it remains today. As I noted, the Committee set a criterion of substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market as the condition for ending the new purchase program. The Committee also signaled its expectation that it would end the purchases and return to an emphasis on rates policy and forward guidance before it had fully attained its dual mandate objectives, stating that "the Committee expects that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens."15 The reason for this sequencing choice, again, was the greater uncertainty about the costs and efficacy of LSAPs, relative to the more familiar tool of managing the current short-term interest rate and, through forward guidance, expectations of future short-term interest rates. Moreover, to the extent that the use of LSAPs engenders additional costs and risks, one might expect the tradeoff between the efficacy and costs of this tool to become less favorable as the Federal Reserve's balance sheet expands. Having seen progress in the labor market since the beginning of the latest asset purchase program in September 2012, the Committee agreed in June of this year to provide more-comprehensive guidance about the criteria that would inform future decisions about the program. Consequently, in my press conference following the June FOMC meeting, I presented a framework linking the program more explicitly to the evolution of the FOMC's economic outlook. In particular, I noted the Committee's expectation at the time that improvements in the job market would continue, supported by a moderate pickup in growth that would support those gains. The Committee additionally expected that inflation would be moving back toward its 2 percent objective over time. If the incoming data were broadly consistent with that outlook, the Committee would likely begin measured reductions in the pace of asset purchases later in 2013. If the economy evolved as anticipated, the end of purchases would occur around midyear 2014. I also emphasized that the path of purchases would depend on incoming data and could be slower or faster than envisioned in the modal scenario--indeed, I noted that the pace of purchases could be increased for a time, if warranted. The framework I discussed in June implied that substantial additional asset purchases over the subsequent quarters were likely, with even more purchases possible if economic developments proved disappointing. However, following the June meeting and press conference, market yields moved sharply higher. For example, between the FOMC meetings of June and September, the 10-year Treasury yield rose about 3/4 percentage point and rates on MBS increased by a similar amount. Financial market movements are often difficult to account for, even after the fact, but three main reasons seem to explain the rise in interest rates over the summer. First, improvements in the economic outlook warranted somewhat higher yields--a natural and healthy development. Second, some of the rise in rates reportedly reflected an unwinding of levered positions--positions that appear to have been premised on an essentially indefinite continuation of asset purchases--together with some knock-on liquidations of other positions in response to investor losses and the rise in volatility. Although it brought with it some tightening of financial conditions, this unwinding and the associated rise in term premiums may have had the benefit of reducing future risks to financial stability and, in particular, of lowering the probability of an even sharper market correction at some later point. Third, market participants may have taken the communication in June as indicating a general lessening of the Committee's commitment to maintain a highly accommodative stance of policy in pursuit of its objectives. In particular, it appeared that the FOMC's forward guidance for the federal funds rate had become less effective after June, with market participants pulling forward the time at which they expected the Committee to start raising rates, in a manner inconsistent with the guidance.16 To the extent that this third factor--a perceived reduction in the Fed's commitment to meeting its objectives--contributed to the increase in yields, it was neither welcome nor warranted, in the judgment of the FOMC. This change in expectations did not correspond to any actual lessening in the FOMC's commitment or intention to provide the high degree of monetary accommodation needed to meet its objectives, as Committee participants emphasized in subsequent communications. At its September 2013 meeting, the FOMC applied the framework communicated in June. The Committee's decision at that meeting to maintain the pace of asset purchases was appropriate and fully consistent with the earlier guidance. The Committee was looking for evidence that job market gains would continue, supported by a pickup in growth. As it happened, the implications for the outlook of the evidence reviewed at the September meeting were mixed at best, while the ongoing fiscal debates posed additional risks. The Committee accordingly elected to await further evidence supporting its expectation of continued improvement in the labor market.17 Although the FOMC's decision came as a surprise to some market participants, it appears to have strengthened the credibility of the Committee's forward rate guidance; in particular, following the decision, longer-term rates fell and expectations of short-term rates derived from financial market prices showed, and continue to show, a pattern more consistent with the guidance. In coming meetings, in evaluating the outlook for the labor market, we will continue to consider both the cumulative progress since September 2012 and the prospect for continued gains. We have seen meaningful improvement in the labor market since the latest asset purchase program was announced in September 2012. At the time, the latest reading on the unemployment rate was 8.1 percent, and both we and most private-sector economists were projecting only slow reductions in unemployment in the coming quarters. Recent reports on payroll employment had also been somewhat disappointing. However, since the program was announced, the unemployment rate has fallen 0.8 percentage point, and about 2.6 million payroll jobs have been added. Looking forward, we will of course continue to monitor the incoming data. As reflected in the latest Summary of Economic Projections and the October FOMC statement, the FOMC still expects that labor market conditions will continue to improve and that inflation will move toward the 2 percent objective over the medium term. If these views are supported by incoming information, the FOMC will likely begin to moderate the pace of purchases. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's economic outlook. As before, the Committee will also continue to take into account its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of the program. When, ultimately, asset purchases do slow, it will likely be because the economy has progressed sufficiently for the Committee to rely more heavily on its rate policies, the associated forward guidance, and its substantial continued holdings of securities to maintain progress toward maximum employment and to achieve price stability.18 In particular, the target for the federal funds rate is likely to remain near zero for a considerable time after the asset purchases end, perhaps well after the unemployment threshold is crossed and at least until the preponderance of the data supports the beginning of the removal of policy accommodation. Conclusion I began my time as Chairman with the goal of increasing the transparency of the Federal Reserve, and of monetary policy in particular. In response to a financial crisis and a deep recession, the Fed's monetary policy communications have proved far more important and have evolved in different ways than I would have envisioned eight years ago. The economy has made significant progress since the depths of the recession. However, we are still far from where we would like to be, and, consequently, it may be some time before monetary policy returns to more normal settings. I agree with the sentiment, expressed by my colleague Janet Yellen at her testimony last week, that the surest path to a more normal approach to monetary policy is to do all we can today to promote a more robust recovery.19 The FOMC remains committed to maintaining highly accommodative policies for as long as they are needed. Communication about policy is likely to remain a central element of the Federal Reserve's efforts to achieve its policy goals. ReferencesBernanke, Ben S. (2012). "Monetary Policy since the Onset of the Crisis," speech delivered at "The Changing Policy Landscape," a symposium sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City Economic Symposium, held in Jackson Hole, Wyo., August 30-September 1. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2008). "FOMC Statement and Board Approval of Discount Rate Requests of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco," press release, December 16. ------ (2009). "FOMC Statement," press release, March 18. ------ (2011). "FOMC Statement," press release, August 9. ------ (2012a). "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement," press release, January 25. ------ (2012b). "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement," press release, June 20. ------ (2012c). "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement," press release, December 12. ------ (2013a). "Federal Reserve Board and Federal Open Market Committee Release Economic Projections from the September 17-18 FOMC Meeting," press release, September 18. ------ (2013b). "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement," press release, September 18. ------ (2013c). Transcript of Chairman Bernanke's Press Conference (PDF), transcript, June 19. Campbell, Jeffrey R., Charles L. Evans, Jonas D.M. Fisher, and Alejandro Justiniano (2012). "Macroeconomic Effects of FOMC Forward Guidance," Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, vol. 43 (Spring), pp. 1-54. Carpenter, Seth B., Jane E. Ihrig, Elizabeth C. Klee, Daniel W. Quinn, and Alexander H. Boote (2013). "The Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet and Earnings: A Primer and Projections," Finance and Economics Discussion Series 2013-01. Washington: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, January. Eggertsson, Gauti B., and Michael Woodford (2003). "The Zero Bound on Interest Rates and Optimal Monetary Policy," Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, no. 1, pp. 139-211. Femia, Katherine, Steven Friedman, and Brian Sack (2013). "The Effects of Policy Guidance on Perceptions of the Fed's Reaction Function," Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Report 652. New York: Federal Reserve Bank of New York, November. Friedman, Milton (2000). "Canada and Flexible Exchange Rates (PDF),"  speech delivered at "Revisiting the Case for Flexible Exchange Rates," a conference sponsored by the Bank of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, November. Posen, Adam (2012). "Comments on Methods of Policy Accommodation at the Interest-Rate Lower Bound' by Michael Woodford (PDF)," speech delivered at "The Changing Policy Landscape," a symposium sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City Economic Symposium, held in Jackson Hole, Wyo., August 30-September 1. Raskin, Matthew D. (2013). "The Effects of the Federal Reserve's Date-Based Forward Guidance," Finance and Economics Discussion Series 2013-37. Washington: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, May. Reifschneider, David, and John C. Williams (2000). "Three Lessons for Monetary Policy in a Low-Inflation Era," Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, vol. 32 (November), pp. 936-66. Swanson, Eric T. and John C. Williams (2013). "Measuring the Effect of the Zero Lower Bound on Medium- and Longer-Term Interest Rates (PDF)," Working Paper Series 2012-02. San Francisco: Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, January. Tobin, James (1965). "The Monetary Interpretation of History," American Economic Review, vol. 55 (June), pp. 464-85. ------ (1969). "A General Equilibrium Approach to Monetary Theory," Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, vol. 1 (February), pp. 15-29. Yellen, Janet (2013). "Confirmation Hearing," statement before the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, U.S. Senate, Washington, D.C., November 14.  1. To be clear, although monetary policy has limited influence on the level of employment that can be sustained in the longer run, it can be used to help eliminate gaps between the current level of employment and its sustainable level--as policy is doing today. Return to text 2. The January 2013 statement is available on the Board's website at www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/files/FOMC_LongerRunGoals.pdf. Return to text 3. The central tendency of the projections for the longer-run normal unemployment rate (which drops the three highest and three lowest values submitted by FOMC participants) was 5.2 to 5.8 percent in September. For the most recent FOMC projections, see www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/fomcminutes20130918ep.htm on the Board's website. Return to text 4. See, for example, Eggertsson and Woodford (2003) and Reifschneider and Williams (2000). Return to text 5. See Board of Governors (2008, 2009). Return to text 6. See Board of Governors (2011). Return to text 7. Evidence that this is the case has been provided by Campbell, Evans, Fisher, and Justiniano (2012), Swanson and Williams (2013), Raskin (2013), and by a recent study of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's survey of primary dealers (Femia, Friedman, and Sack, 2013). Return to text 8. See Board of Governors (2012a, b). Return to text 9. See Board of Governors (2012c). Return to text 10. See Board of Governors (2012c). Specifically, the guidance says that the Committee anticipates that its 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. The FOMC asserted in its statement that it viewed the new thresholds to be consistent with the earlier, date-based guidance. Femia, Friedman, and Sack (2013) present evidence that respondents to the survey of primary dealers largely shared this assessment. Return to text 11. An advantage of the state-contingent formulation is that it increases the tendency of financial market conditions to act as an automatic stabilizer for the economy. For example, bad news about the labor market, which tends to lengthen the amount of time the public expects to be required for the unemployment rate to reach the threshold, should likewise increase the length of time that the public expects policy to remain highly accommodative. In response to this shift in policy expectations, interest rates should fall and asset prices should rise, thus easing financial conditions and helping to offset the adverse change to the outlook. Return to text 12. I discussed this effect more fully in Bernanke (2012). As I noted then, both Milton Friedman (2000) and James Tobin (1965, 1969) made this argument. LSAPs may affect financial conditions through other channels as well; see Bernanke (2012) for a more complete discussion. One such channel is a "signaling channel," which works to the extent that the direct action of buying securities increases the credibility of communication tools like forward rate guidance (Posen, 2012). Return to text 13. An additional concern that some have raised about the Federal Reserve's expanded balance sheet is the possibility that financial conditions could evolve in a way that significantly reduces the Fed's net interest income on its portfolio for a time, which in turn could lead to a period during which the Fed is not remitting income to the Treasury; see Carpenter and others (2013) for an analysis. Such a situation, though unlikely, could have reputational costs and possibly increase risks to the Federal Reserve's independence. Although these costs must be taken into account, careful analysis suggests that, in fact, LSAPs almost certainly will result in improved government finances: First, even if a period of no payments to the Treasury occurs, it is highly likely that the payments over the period of unconventional monetary policy will be significantly higher than they would have been without LSAPs; indeed, since 2009, the Fed has remitted more than $350 billion to the Treasury, about the same total as it remitted during the 18 years prior to the crisis (1990-2007 inclusive). Second, a complete accounting of the fiscal effects of LSAPs should take into account the beneficial effects of a stronger economy on tax receipts, interest payments, and government spending; the reduction in the budget deficit from these sources will certainly outweigh the effects on the deficit of any changes in the pace of Fed payments. Finally, while fiscal effects are important, the full effect of the FOMC's policies also includes important additional benefits of increased economic growth and employment and of greater price stability. Return to text 14. This criterion was expressed in slightly different ways in the FOMC statements between September 2012 and January 2013. Since March 2013, the statement has included the sentence, "The Committee will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability." FOMC statements are available at www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/fomccalendars.htm. Return to text 15. See Board of Governors (2012c). Return to text 16. For example, the Eurodollar futures rate for mid-2015 rose about 40 basis points in the few days following the June FOMC meeting, far more than could be explained by revisions to the economic outlook. Return to text 17. See Board of Governors (2013a, b). Return to text 18. By the logic described earlier, the Fed's maintenance of a large balance sheet (by reinvesting principal paydowns and rolling over maturing securities) should continue to put downward pressure on term premiums and longer-term interest rates, even after purchases end. Also, as I noted at my June press conference, a strong majority of the Committee now expects that there will be no sales of agency MBS during the process of normalizing monetary policy, although in the longer run limited sales could be used to reduce or eliminate residual MBS holdings. See Board of Governors (2013c). Return to text 19. See Yellen (2013). Return to text
Bitcoin has rallied about 75% in the past week, fueled by Chinese demand as well as increasing acceptance in Washington. And it now stands at around $700. In 2010, Bitcoin's value spent the year fluctuating between a fraction of a penny and a quarter. If you were daring enough to get in on the phenomenon of the digital currency early, you've obviously ended up with a decent amount of wealth. Still, where do you turn to brag about your spoils? To reddit, of course. Here are some folks who've either just made bank on Bitcoin, or are lamenting that they may have missed their opportunity to do so. reddit reddit reddit reddit reddit reddit What a group.
REUTERSWe recently ran a Quora post by a corporate law associate who provided details about a typical "busy day" and "not-busy" day at work to explain why so many lawyers are unhappy. While his busy day — lasting until 3:45 a.m. and starting hours later — sounds painful, his not-busy day sounds depressing too. It involves long periods of isolation, not much stimulation, and still lasts until 8:45 p.m. The day starts at 7 a.m. when the lawyer checks his work email right away. Since there are no immediate fires to extinguish, the lawyer goes to the gym and heads into work by 9:30 a.m. The rest of the day is spent in almost total isolation, proofreading and marking documents. At one point, the lawyer gets up to get coffee just to have a chance to speak to somebody. The lawyer is "a little happier" because of brief conversations with the cashier in the cafeteria, people at a coffee shop, and people in document services. "Otherwise, I just spent the last 11.25 hours alone in my office proofreading and marking documents without any human interaction," the lawyer writes. How quickly would you burn out if your "easy" day were more than 11 hours long and filled with drudgery? As former BigLaw partner Steven Harper has said, part of the problem for lawyers like this one is that the drudgery of the law conflicts with their expectations going into law school. "People go to law school thinking they’re going to grow up to be Atticus Finch or Alicia Florrick, and actual practice turns out to be quite different," Harper has told the legal blog Above the Law. "Real life doesn’t bear much resemblance to such images." Things have gotten worse for associates in recent years because new ranking lists have put more pressure on corporate law firms to be hugely profitable, Harper has said in an NPR interview. As a consequence, young lawyers often sit behind their desks doing grunt work and billing hours instead of, say, sitting in on a trial and getting mentored. "You didn't go to law school because you thought you're getting to sit in front of a computer screen for hour after hour after hour reviewing documents," Harper told NPR.
REUTERS/Larry DowningU.S. President Barack Obama wipes his face in the heat at a campaign event at Oyster River High School in Durham, New Hampshire, June 25, 2012. The U.S. Census Bureau said Tuesday that a source named in aNew York Post storyclaiming it had "faked" unemployment data hasn't worked at the Bureau since 2011. A Census spokesperson confirmed to Business Insider that the Census Bureau employee quoted in the story, Julius Buckmon, has not worked there since August 2011.This was first reported by CNBC's Steve Liesman. The Post story never mentions this fact. A spokesman for the Post didn't immediately return a request for comment as to why. "We have no reason to believe this isn't an isolated incident," the Census spokesperson told Business Insider. "This was an employee who was willfully disobeying Census procedures and disobeying the law." The spokesperson said that because of privacy laws, she couldn't comment the reasons for a specific employee leaving the Bureau. But the spokesperson did say that when the Bureau discovers inappropriate activity, the matter is referred to the Department of Labor's Inspector General. The field representative would be subject to disciplinary action if the IG finds any wrongdoing, including termination. The story never provided a specific timeframe for Buckmon's employment at the Census Bureau. But the article painted the picture, citing Buckmon and anonymous sources, that Census employees have manipulated data that has gone into the monthly unemployment report. The report  titled "Census 'faked' 2012 election jobs report"  claims that employees conducting the household survey (the one that determines the unemployment rate) were pressured by higher-ups to fudge surveys to fill in data gaps when they could not get adequate response rates. Beyond Buckmon, the Post story cites an anonymous "knowledgeable source" who claimed that the data manipulation "escalated at the time President Obama was seeking reelection in 2012 and continues today."  This source is also responsible for the allegation that a weird-looking jobs report in September 2012  which conservatives at the time suggested could have been intentionally manipulated  was "faked" to produce a decline in the unemployment rate from 8.1% in August to 7.8% in September. The Post story also cites confidential documents  but all of the issues cited from the documents are from 2010. The Census spokesperson said that the Bureau has more than 7,000 field representatives like Buckmon, so it would be close to impossible for one employee to have a significant effect on the overall report. Others, like Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal, also pointed out issues with the Post's story, like the fact that the September jobs report was very much on trend with the declining unemployment rate.
AP Photo/Andy Wong The situation for foreign journalists in China has never been good. While freedom of speech is included in the constitution, in practice censorship has been widespread throughout the country for decades. Recently, however, the situation see the situation has become to look untenable. Consider the case of Mike Forsythe, a reporter who is said to have blown the whistle on Bloomberg News allegedly pulling its coverage of stories critical of China. Forsythe has since left the company. In the past Bloomberg News had published stories that were reported to have angered Chinese officials, most notably a story about Xi Jinping's family and their allegedly huge wealth, but the backlash was severe — following the Xi story, Bloomberg.com was blocked in China and there were reports of death threats. Many observers believe that the company has been worried about the potential business fallout from further critical stories. When critical stories do come out, it is not easy for them to make an impact within China. The Observer notes that the New York Times ran a story last week that sounded a lot like the story Bloomberg allegedly killed (about the links between he daughter of former-prime minister Wen Jiabao and JP Morgan). It is not easily accessible in China, however, as The Times' Chinese-language website has been blocked since late 2012. It is widely believed that the block was retaliation for a story about possible corruption amongst Wen Jiabao's family. Journalists who work on critical stories frequently find themselves denied visas needed for reporting in China. In 2012, Al Jazeera's respected Melissa Chen became the first journalist to be expelled from the country in almost 15 years. Recently Paul Mooney, who had been hoping to accept a position with Reuters in Beijing, was denied a visa. Mooney described the experience in an interview with Bob Dietz for the Committee to Protect Journalists: Reuters offered me a position as a features writer in Beijing in February and they submitted my visa application in early March. I had an interview with the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco in April, which is a now part of the process of getting a journalist visa. After that, the ministry provided no information at all. Nothing. So there was no animosity, from what I know. Reuters checked with MoFA from time to time to see about my visa, but the answer was always that they were working on my background investigation, which didn't make much sense as I'd lived in Beijing for 18 consecutive years. From their monitoring of me during my more than two decades of reporting on China, they knew quite a bit about me. I assume that MoFA, which actually lacks any real power in things like this, was waiting for security agencies to give their approval for my visa. When MoFA informed Reuters on November 8, which is Journalists' Day in China, by the way, that they would not grant me a visa, no reason was given, and that's because they don't have a valid reason for doing this. In the entire 18 years that I worked as an accredited journalist in China, and during the past eight months, no one from the government had ever made any critical remarks about my work, although, as I said, I'm sure they were not happy with my reporting. The purpose of not giving any justification for the delay in granting a visa is part of their program of intimidation, a way for them to make journalists squirm. While working in China, I had to renew my visa every year, and each year I expected to have trouble--but I never did. Things are different now, however. The situation around the country is getting worse and the Chinese leadership is getting increasingly nervous. Their decision to keep me out of China now is an indication of how much the Chinese leadership has regressed in recent years.  This is the worst atmosphere for freedom of expression that I can remember since the early 1990s. Also, I believe that they think refusing to renew the visa of someone inside China is far more sensitive than not issuing a visa to someone who is applying from outside the country--I was forced to leave China in September 2012 because I was not able to get a new journalist visa before my previous visa expired. Once I was in the US, Beijing was less afraid of the fallout from not giving me a visa. Mooney goes on to tell Dietz that the situation has "gotten much worse, but that's been the trend for several years now." A recent study from the Center for International Media Assistance concurred with these findings. What's worrying about all this is that the big stories in China aren't going to go away anytime soon — if anything there's going to be a lot more of them. The New Yorker's Evan Osnoes (who, perhaps un-coincidentally, recently left China) points out in a column today, events like the recent Third Plenum are simply too important for the world to not be informed about: The leaders who met in Beijing this month were deciding not simply what reforms to undertake but what of kind of country they want to leave for future generations. It is a story that nobody can afford to ignore. And as tough as the situation is for foreign journalists, it's far worse for Chinese journalists, who tend to have their reporting curtailed and their publications subject to direct censorship. The recent detention of New Express writer Chen Yongzhou and his subsequent televised confession did little to calm concerns.
In an effort to fight against those "waging economic warfare" on the people of Venezuela, the country's legislator has approved a bill giving President Nicolas Maduro sweeping powers once held by late-President Hugo Chavez, Noticias 24 reports. Basically, he can now rule by decree, without the need for legislative approval. There were doubts about whether or not Maduro, a mere shadow of his predecessor, would be able to pass such major controls  but he did. Moreover, according to reports, hundreds rallied outside the legislature in support of this bill. The new law will enable Maduro to either deepen state control of the economy or loosen foreign exchange controls to stimulate production, Asdrubal Oliveros, director of Caracas-based research group Ecoanalitica, told Bloomberg News. Maduro described it in a speech last month as his way to "unfold a permanent offensive against the corrupt and their political backers. Today, his man in the legislature  and number two in the party Diosdado Cabellero  said that "the state must intervene to control those that have the capital and believe they can do whatever they want." Henrique Capriles, the leader of the opposition party, said the government is seeking once again scapegoats to blame for their own mistakes... The government is trying to deviate attention from the serious economic crisis that is hurting Venezuela. That may be, but Chavez himself ruled with these special powers for four years while he was alive. All this comes after a bunch of a bizarre, desperate sounding stories have emerged about the legitimacy of the Venezuelan government and its attempts to spur the economy and curb inflation (which blew up to 54% in the last 12 months). For example: For the "sake of happiness", the Ministry moved Christmas up to November 1st. What this measure actually is, is an attempt to jump-start some consumption. As Venezuelan paper El Universal points, out, it also could also be a way for the government to give its ministers some cash in the form of early Christmas bonuses right before election day on December 8th. And that election day is crucial to Maduro. He squeaked by the presidential election earlier this year  one in which Capriles was at a significant disadvantage in terms of money and media. 
The chart below shows how the correlation between U.S. Treasury yields and the Dow Jones Industrial Average has varied under each iteration of the quantitative easing program of bond purchases the Federal Reserve has employed since the financial crisis. Under QE3 (the current iteration), changes in bond yields have have been associated with larger changes in equity prices than under any other program. So, when yields rise, so do equities, and when yields fall, so do equities  in both directions moreso than in the past. The red square near the top of the chart plots the current levels of the yield on the 10-year Treasury note and the DJIA. Its place above the regression line shows that equities are looking rich based on this relationship. Socit Gnrale fixed income strategists believe the regression line is actually too steep. In other words, when yields rise again (induced by a tapering of QE) as they did earlier this summer, the strategists believe the relationship charted by the regression line will break down as higher yields fail to boost equity prices. "We have currently reached a new peak in equities, and the 'beta' that is, the strength of the relationship for equity prices to rise as bond yields rise (the coefficient on 'x' in the regression equation) is probably unsustainably high as the Fed tapers asset purchases over the next six months," write the SocGen strategists in a note to clients. "Based on the QE3 regression equation, the projected level of the Dow for a 10-year Treasury yield at 3.00% is 15,916; for 3.25% its 16,338; and for a 10-year Treasury yield at 3.50%, the Dow would be at 16,760, or 5% higher than it is right now. We dont expect equity prices to dive, but we do suspect that in 2014 as the Fed eventually tapers asset purchases, the level of bond yields will rise and equity prices will be volatile, moving roughly sideways for a time while both markets re-adjust." This is not necessarily an uncommon view on the Street. JPMorgan chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee, whoclaims the highest year-end S&amp;P 500 price target of any strategist at a major bank  cites tapering as his chief concern. "The biggest risk to our thesis, in our view, remains the potential for a negative monetary policy surprise (more likely in the U.S. than Europe)," he says. "That is, we believe equities remain uncomfortable with the notion of asset tapering without the economy at perceived escape velocity." SG Cross Asset Research
REUTERS/Barry HuangContestants watch a video of a male contestant on electronic screens during the recording of an episode of popular Chinese matchmaking television show "If You Are the One" in Beijing September 24, 2011.China's decades long one-child policy and preference for male children has skewed the country's demographics. The country hastoo many men. However, this skewed male-to-female ratio may be what's partly responsible for China's huge trade surplus. According to thefirst chapter of the Oxford Companion to the Economics of China, published by the NBER, China's skewed sex ratio is partly responsible for its high domestic savings rate. Fewer women in the marriage market have made Chinese women pickier. One female contestant on a Chinese dating show famously said "Id rather cry in aBMWthan smile on a bicycle".For a man to get hitched, a good education and stable income is no longer enough andowning property has become almost a necessity. This gender imbalance has caused young men and their parents to increase their savings. From the paper:  However, this could change with the recent abolition of the one-child policy, as the sex ratio normalizes and parents feel less pressured to save to find their son a wife. Read the whole study at NBER.org
REUTERS/China Daily The bottled water business has boomed in China as concerns about contaminated water sources persist. Sales of bottled water are expected to surge to $16 billion by 2017, from $9 billion last year, according to Euromonitor International. "This water story illustrates how much China's economy is distorted by unhealthy government power," writes Andy Xie, independent economist and former Morgan Stanley chief Asia-Pacific economist, in Caixin Online. Environmental pollution has caused people to eschew tap water for bottled water. Xie attributes the pollution to the local governments' desire to draw in investment, as turning a blind eye to the pollution lowers production costs. From Xie: "As demand for bottled water grows, of course, it is an investment opportunity, too. Hence, the safety of bottled water becomes an issue. If one is willing to sacrifice the environment to attract investment, why not lower the standards for bottled water? That is indeed a serious issue. Consumers have to guess which bottled water is safe. "A further story is how bottled water has become a source of revenue. As some suppliers have become successful in the market, governments find it more profitable to tax them. Hence, the price of bottled water is rising." This additional revenue also goes toward investment, as local governments have thus far focused on feeding the beast and meeting GDP targets. The bottom line according to Xie, is that all of this is done to "satisfy the government," and the real reform that China needs is limited government control.
There have been a few sticking points in the negotiations between the government and JP Morgan in its historic $13 billion mortgage settlement. One of those points has been the tax deductibility of the settlement. The government did not want JPM to get any kind of tax benefit from penalty. JP Morgan, naturally, thought otherwise. Now that all is said and done, though, it looks like up to $7 billion of JP Morgan's settlement could be tax deductible. Of the $13 billion settlement, $9 billion is considered a penalty paid by the bank (the other portion goes home owner relief). Of that $9 billion, $2 billion is definitely not tax deductible, according to the settlement, as that money is being paid specifically to address bad mortgages issued by JPM. The rest of that $9 billion, though, is meant to address bad mortgages issued by Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns. JP Morgan could still deduct those from its taxes, according to the agreement. How much exactly is up to the IRS. This is sure to make a lot of people in Washington pretty angry. Earlier this month, Americans for Tax Fairness and the U.S. PIRG presented Congress with a 160,000 signature petition asking the Justice Department to add a provision to the settlement that would stop this from happening, and a bunch of Congressmen have jumped on board, calling U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to do something. Then five Senators sent the DOJ a letter earn to "ensure the final settlement is clear about the tax treatment of the entire settlement amount and explicitly prohibits the tax deductibility of such payments. At the same time, Congressman Peter Welch (D-VT) has introduced a bill to the House that would end the corporate tax deductibility of all legal settlements, it's called The Stop Deducting Damages Act(HR 3445). His office is already out with a statement about the issue: Washington, DC. (November 19th, 2013)- Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) made the following statement after this afternoons announcement that J.P. Morgan and the U.S. Justice Department have reached final agreement on a $13 billion settlement over J.P. Morgans role in the near collapse of the American economy in 2008. It appears that, under current law, a portion of the settlement would be tax deductible. Welch said, J.P. Morgan, whose conduct caused great harm to taxpayers and the American economy, should not ask the taxpayer to pay any portion of its penalty in this important settlement. Jamie Dimon should do the right thing and direct his accountants to forgo the exploitation of any tax loopholes that could reduce the burden imposed by this settlement. He should accept full responsibility for J.P. Morgans egregious conduct and that includes paying the full cost of this settlement. Rep. Welch and Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) recently sent a letter to J.P. Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon demanding that his company accept the full payment of any fine. They also introduced the Stop Deducting Damages Act (HR 3445) which would prevent corporations from reaching into the taxpayers pocket to pay their fines for breaking the law. So it looks like this is going to be a bit contentious.
Earlier this year, we checked in on the story of 'The Bitcoin Pizzas.' As Internet lore has it,on May 18, 2010,Jacksonville residentLaszlo Hanyecz announced on Bitcointalk.org he would pay someone 10,000 BTC to order him two pizzas. At that time, 10,000 Bitcoin was worth $25. Four days later, Bitcointalk.org user jarcos obliged. Hanyecz posted the proof: two piping hot "The Works" pizzas from Papa John's. Mike LazloOur first post from this April quoted the price of Bitcoin at $234, which meant the pizzas were now worth $2.3 million. Today, Bitcoin prices now stand at more than $600. Which means that pizza is now worth more than $6 million. There's actually a site, Ounce.me, that has live "Bitcoin Pizza" quotes. Here's a snapshot from earlier today: Ounce.meWe hope those pizzas were really, really good.
Courtesy of WaganThe Wagan 12-Volt Travel Mug plugs into the car's 12-volt socket.Whether he's starting out as a small fish in a big corporation or flying by the seat of his pants in Silicon Valley, the young professional guy in your life could use a few gadgets and accessories to help ease his transition into the Real World. From electric travel mugs that keep his coffee warm during the morning commute to a vintage-chic tie clip that looks like an alpine ski, here are 12 gifts for the budding careerist.
Wikimedia CommonsCrater Lake National Park, OregonIt was a quite day in the markets. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
REUTERSKrispy Kreme doughnuts go into production at the opening of the store at Harrods in London, October, 3, 2003.FactSet has released its quarterly report on the holdings of the country's 50 largest hedge funds. The usual suspects — Apple, Microsoft, and Google — are all atop the list of stocks favored by the big guys. Excluding the effect of IPO's, Facebook was the largest addition for the group of funds, according to the report. "On the other end of the spectrum, the funds were most bearish in The Boeing Company," writes FactSet. "This represents a shift because, as recently as the first quarter, the top 50 hedge funds more than doubled their exposure to the stock." FactSet's report looks at the market value of the stocks, the weight of the stock in an aggregated portfolio, and the number of funds holding the stock. Shares outstanding "indicates the proportion of the shares outstanding of the stock owned by the aggregated portfolio of the top 50 hedge funds.
Of the $13 billion that JP Morgan will pay to settle mortgage fraud charges, $4 billion will go to distressed homeowners. More specifically, $1.5 billion will go specifically to JPM, Washington Mutual, or Bear Sterns borrowers that are under water  the value of their homes is less than that of their mortgages. The rest of the $4 billion can be used in a variety of ways for customers or communities impacted by the crisis  which ones, however, has yet to be worked out, according to WaPo. JP Morgan will have to hire an independant monitor to make sure that all this goes down nice and clean. Options for additional relief include lowering interest payments on existing loans, or originating brand new loans that JPM will keep on its books (not sell to investors). $300-$500 million of settlement should go to restructuring mortgages, according to the settlement. New York state alone will get $1 billion of the settlement,  including $613 million in cash and approximately $400 million in consumer relief, according to the New York Attorney General's office. Since my first day in office, I have insisted that there must be accountability for the misconduct that led to the crash of the housing market and the collapse of the American economy, saidAttorney General Schneiderman, co-chair of the RMBS working group.This historic deal, which will bring long-overdue relief to homeowners around the country and across New York, is exactly what our working group was created to do. We refused to allow systemic frauds that harmed so many New York homeowners and investors to simply be forgotten, and as a result weve won a major victory today in the fight to hold those who caused the financial crisis accountable. According to the WSJ, this consumer relief portion was a sticking point in settlement talks. If JPM doesn't pay this money out by 2016, JPMorgan has to pay an amount equal to the unexpended funds either to the government or to a third party designated by the government, like a non-profit. Of course, this doesn't end JP Morgan's legal troubles. They still have to clear up issues surrounding their business convicted Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff, and address questions about its hiring of family members connected to the ruling Communist party in China.
REUTERS/Gary CameronJPMorgan Chase will pay a $13 billion settlement to the government related to mortgages, according to a press release.  It's the largest settlement paid by a company to the government.  As part of settlement, JPMorgan will have to pay $9 billion.  The bank will also pay another $4 billion that will go to consumer relief, the press release states. Here's the statement from Eric Schneiderman's office:  A.G. SCHNEIDERMAN-LED STATE &amp; FEDERAL WORKING GROUP ANNOUNCES $13 BILLION SETTLEMENT WITH JPMORGAN CHASE Settlement Includes An Expected $1 Billion For New York RMBS Task Force, Co-Chaired By Schneiderman, Produces Largest Settlement Ever Levied Against A Financial Institution  Settlement Comes Thirteen Months After Schneiderman Sued JPMorgan For Fraudulent Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Packaged And Sold By Bear Stearns Schneiderman: “Today’s Settlement Is A Major Victory In The Fight To Hold Those Who Caused The Financial Crisis Accountable” NEW YORK – Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman today joined the members of a state and federal working group he co-chairs in announcing a $13 billion settlement with JPMorgan Chase. The agreement – the largest settlement with a single entity in American history – resolve federal and state civil claims arising out of the packaging, marketing, sale and issuance of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) by JPMorgan, Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual prior to January 1, 2009.  The settlement requires JPMorgan to pay $9 billion and provide $4 billion in consumer relief, including mortgage modifications for homeowners at risk of foreclosure. New York State will receive more than $1 billion of the $13 billion settlement, including $613 million in cash and approximately $400 million in consumer relief for struggling New Yorkers. Among other uses, the cash portion will be directed to provide additional legal services and housing counseling for those affected by Superstorm Sandy. The settlement was negotiated through the Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group, a joint state and federal working group formed in 2012 to share resources and continue investigating wrongdoing in the mortgage-backed securities market prior to the financial crisis. Attorney General Schneiderman co-chairs the RMBS working group. “Since my first day in office, I have insisted that there must be accountability for the misconduct that led to the crash of the housing market and the collapse of the American economy,” said Attorney General Schneiderman, co-chair of the RMBS working group. “This historic deal, which will bring long-overdue relief to homeowners around the country and across New York, is exactly what our working group was created to do. We refused to allow systemic frauds that harmed so many New York homeowners and investors to simply be forgotten, and as a result we’ve won a major victory today in the fight to hold those who caused the financial crisis accountable.” The settlement resolves a lawsuit filed by Attorney General Schneiderman in October 2012 against J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (formerly known as Bear Stearns &amp; Co. Inc.), JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., and EMC Mortgage LLC (formerly known as EMC Mortgage Corporation) alleging fraud under the Martin Act in the packaging and sale of residential mortgage-backed securities by Bear Stearns. As part of the global settlement, JPMorgan acknowledged it made serious, material misrepresentations to the public – including the investing public – about numerous RMBS transactions. The global settlement includes a Statement of Facts, in which JPMorgan acknowledges that it regularly misrepresented to RMBS investors that the mortgage loans in various securities complied with underwriting guidelines. Contrary to those representations, as the Statement of Facts explains, on a number of different occasions, JPMorgan employees knew that the loans in question did not comply with its own guidelines and were not otherwise appropriate for securitization, but they allowed the loans to be securitized – and those securities to be sold – without disclosing this information to investors. This conduct, along with similar conduct by other banks that bundled toxic loans into securities and misled investors who purchased those securities, contributed to the financial crisis.  Attorney General Schneiderman was elected in 2010 and took office in 2011, when the five largest mortgage servicing banks, all 50 state attorneys general, and the federal government were on the verge of agreeing to a settlement that would have immunized the banks – including JPMorgan – from liability for virtually all misconduct related to the financial crisis. Attorney General Schneiderman refused to agree to such sweeping immunity for the banks. As a result, Attorney General Schneiderman secured a settlement that preserved a wide range of claims for further investigation and prosecution.  In his 2012 State of the Union address, President Obama announced the formation of the RMBS Working Group. The collaboration brought together the Department of Justice (DOJ), other federal entities, and several state law enforcement officials – led by Attorney General Schneiderman – to investigate those responsible for misconduct contributing to the financial crisis through the pooling and sale of residential mortgage-backed securities.  Today’s settlement is a product of the RMBS Working Group. Michael P. Stephens, Acting Inspector General of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, said, “JP Morgan and the banks it bought, Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual, sold hundreds of billions of dollars of defective mortgages into the securities markets helping to precipitate the financial crisis. Investors, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, suffered enormous losses by purchasing RMBS from JPMorgan, Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns not knowing about those defects. Today’s settlement is a significant, but by no means a final step by FHFA-OIG, DOJ the NYAG, and our other law enforcement partners to hold accountable those who committed acts of fraud and deceit. We are proud to have worked on this case with Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and his outstanding staff in New York and we look forward to our continued work together, as well as with the other federal and state agencies that have contributed significantly to this case.” New York State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli said, "With today’s historic settlement, Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is delivering accountability and real relief for New York homeowners at risk of foreclosure."  Suffolk County Executive Steve Bellone said, “I am grateful to Attorney General Eric Schneiderman for securing a settlement with JPMorgan that will provide welcome relief to thousands of Long Island homeowners. Families that are currently at risk of foreclosure will instead be able to modify their mortgages and keep their homes as a result of today’s settlement.” Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz said, “I commend Attorney General Schneiderman for his continued pursuit of international lending institutions that use predatory lending practices to target our citizens. It is my hope that these recovered funds will be used to rebuild our communities and help to repair the damage done by this deceptive lending.” Congressman Brian Higgins said, “The reckless and irresponsible actions of some of our largest banks helped cause the financial crisis. Their greed did great damage to our state and national economy. I commend Attorney General Schneiderman for his relentless pursuit to bring accountability and restore trust in our financial system.” Congressman Jerry Nadler said, “Attorney General Eric Schneiderman's announcement of a $13 billion settlement today is a landmark moment in effort to hold accountable those who engaged in fraud and/or malfeasance that led to the financial crisis. I have been extremely impressed that when others gave up or threw obstacles in his path, Attorney General Schneiderman insisted that federal and state prosecutors keep digging, and as a result, the people of New York will see the largest settlement to date in this matter.” Syracuse Mayor Stephanie Miner said, “Attorney General Eric Schneiderman not only made sure that JPMorgan was held accountable for its role in the financial crisis. He made sure that today’s settlement will deliver real relief to homeowners in Syracuse and other hard hit cities around New York State.” Christie Peale, Executive Director of the Center for New York City Neighborhoods, said, "This is an incredible victory for New York homeowners, tens of thousands of whom have been struggling to negotiate their own settlements with banks—many with little success. Attorney General Schneiderman's willingness to stay in this fight and stand side by side with homeowners throughout the state to secure the benefits of this historic settlement demonstrates the kind of leadership we need at all levels of government. We are grateful for his commitment to delivering to New Yorkers the tools they need to restructure their mortgages and rebuild their lives.  Kirsten E. Keefe, Senior Staff Attorney at the Empire Justice Center, said, “Once again, Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is at the helm, fighting for New York’s working class and holding a big bank accountable for its illegal  behavior. Today’s settlement with Chase is historic and will keep thousands of homeowners in their homes. It has been patently unfair, and harmful to our housing recovery, that lenders have continually refused to forgive debt even on homes that lost their value as a direct result of the financial collapse caused by the banks. The principal reduction afforded by this settlement instills fairness in the system and will help ensure thousands of homeowners keep their homes." Josh Zinner, Co-Director of the New Economy Project, said, "We thank Attorney General Schneiderman for his efforts to hold the too-big-to-fail banks accountable to communities. The big banks' central role in fraudulently securitizing predatory mortgages fueled the financial crisis – this settlement is an important acknowledgement that these fraudulent practices caused great harm to homeowners and communities, and not just investors." Jennifer Ching, Director of Queens Legal Services, said, “Today's historic settlement is designed to provide real and direct relief to New York homeowners who have been victimized by fraudulent practices that have destabilized neighborhoods throughout our state. We thank Attorney General Schneiderman for holding JPMC accountable and look forward to working with his office to connect thousands of homeowners – many of whom have struggled for years to obtain sustainable mortgage modifications – with the resources created by today's agreement.” Under the settlement, JPMC will be required to: Compliance with the settlement will be overseen by an independent monitor. It is expected that of the $4 billion in consumer relief, approximately $400 million will flow as creditable relief to New York homeowners.   The New York Attorney General’s Office investigation and litigation was conducted under the supervision of Deputy Attorney General Virginia Chavez Romano who, together with Chief of the Investor Protection Bureau Chad Johnson, worked closely with the New York Attorney General to achieve this historic settlement.
This post is sponsored by OppenheimerFunds. When interest rates go up, bonds prices fall. As part of the "Ask A Financial Expert" video series, OppenheimerFunds Senior Economist Brian Levitt discusses how investors can offset some of the losses that can be incurred by bonds — including avoiding government-related bonds and exploring options like real estate investment trusts. Learn more at GrowthIncomeProtection.com. * Protection is positioned as an investment goal. Investing in certain securities may help to hedge against certain risks, but does not imply any guarantee from loss. Mutual funds are subject to market risk and volatility. Shares may gain or lose value. Oppenheimer funds are distributed by OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. is not affiliated with Business Insider. Before investing in any of the Oppenheimer funds, investors should carefully consider a fund's investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses. Fund prospectuses and summary prospectuses contain this and other information about the funds, and may be obtained by asking your financial advisor, visiting oppenheimerfunds.com, or calling 1-800-CALL-OPP (800-225-5677). Read prospectuses and summary prospectuses carefully before investing.  © 2013 OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. Find out more about Sponsor Posts.
ReutersThe analysts at Brown Brothers Harriman are out with a new update on the South African economy, and it's pretty bearish. "The rand is one of the worst performing EM currencies," BBH notes, "down nearly 17% year to date against the dollar." In April, the country will hold general elections, but BBH notes that the current ruling party is widely expected to remain in power despite "ongoing poverty, corruption, and labor strife." BBH Signals four main tenants of their fundamental outlook for South Africa: Fundamentals remain terrible, with little relief in sight. On Wednesday, South Africa reports October CPI and it is expected to rise 5.7% y/y vs. 6.0% in September. This is still near the top of the 3-6% target range. When the South Africa Reserve Bank meets Thursday, it is widely expected to keep policy rates steady at 5.0%, frozen by a combination of high inflation, a weak rand, sluggish growth, and high unemployment. Markets were rattled today by news that the South Africas main power company, Eskom, lost generating units and asked customers to reduce usage. It is still unclear whether there will be blackouts as a result, but the company stated that the risk to power cuts is the highest since 2008. Last weeks revisions to trade data helped underpin the rand a bit. However, the SARB later said that the revisions would have less impact on its current account series as it already incorporates its own adjustments to trade that SARS has just started to make. As such, the current account data is unlikely to reflect the sharp improvement in the trade data. Fiscal data remains a weak spot, and we think it is something that likely triggers ratings downgrades over the coming year. Our model views South Africa as BB+/Ba1/BB+, well below actual ratings of BBB/Baa1/BBB. There is a serious problem with twin deficits, as the budget gap is seen above -5% of GDP this year and next while the current account gap is seen above -6% of GDP. Short-term debt to reserves is also very high near 65%, marking heightened vulnerability to hot money flows. Basically, things don't look great for the emerging market.
YouTubeIn a blog post today, Elon Musk addressed the three recent Tesla Model S fires, saying Tesla had "requested that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration [NHTSA] conduct a full investigation as soon as possible into the fire incidents." That's all well and good, until you consider the statement the NHTSA made to Street Insider, dismissing the notion that the investigation was Tesla's idea: NHTSA's decision to open any formal investigation is an independent process. In regards to Tesla, the agency notified the automaker of its plans to open a formal investigation and requested their cooperation, which is standard agency practice for all investigations. The automaker agreed to do so. NHTSA Administration David Strickland went further, telling a House panel today that Tesla did not request an investigation, according to The Detroit News. This isn't the first squabble between Musk and the NHTSA. In August, Tesla publicly interpreted the safety rating for the Model S as the best "of any car ever tested." The Administration issued a rebuke, saying "NHTSA does not rate vehicles beyond 5 stars and does not rank or order vehicles within the star rating categories." We've reached out to Tesla for comment, and will update this post when we hear back.
Photo by China Photos/Getty ImagesChina may not have the most billionaires, but it does have the youngest. According to a report from Wealth-X and UBS, China's 157 billionaires have an average age of 53 years old. That's nine years younger than the global average. China has the second-highest number of billionaires in the world after the U.S., which has 515. And China has added 10 new billionaires over the past year. Still, China's billionaires have come under fire recently for their wealth and power. The government recently charged one of its top billionaires, venture capitalist and human rights supporter Wang Gongquan, with "assembling a crowd to disrupt order." Chinese-American entrepreneur and blogger Charles Xue was arrested in August, and last year Xu Ming, once the country's eighth richest man, was arrested and charged with fraud. One study found that 17 percent of the billionaires on the Hurun Rich List—China's version of the Forbes list—wind up in court or prison. —By CNBC's Robert Frank. Follow him on Twitter @robtfrank
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann  Salary initiative '1:12' flags are seen outside a window of an office of Swiss public workers union SSP in Zurich on November 5, 2013. ZURICH(Reuters) -Switzerlandwill vote on Sunday on whether to limit the salaries of top executives so they don't earn more in a month than the lowest paid workers earn in a year, a move that could mean big pay cuts for business leaders earning millions. The so-called 1:12 initiative for Fair Pay, the latest attempt to narrow a growing wage gap in one of the world's wealthiest nations, was brought about by the youth wing of the Social Democrats (JUSO), who gathered the 100,000 signatures needed to force a nationwide vote. Despite its high standard of living,Switzerlandis a generally egalitarian country, increasingly unhappy with rising wealth inequality as wages of executives balloon while those of low-skilled workers lag. "After the Second World War the growth of salaries and wealth was more or less parallel,"JUSOPresidentDavid Rothtold Reuters. "In the last ten years one small part of society took the big profits and the majority ... had less in their pockets." In 2010, the 10 percent of the workforce with the lowest salaries earned just under 4,000 Swiss francs ($4,400) per month, according to theSwiss Trade Unions Association. That suggests that top earners' wages would be capped at around 576,000 francs ($632,000) a year if the referendum passes. That would imply savage cuts for some chief executives. The average compensation of CEOs at Swiss blue-chip companies was 6.7 million Swiss francs in 2012, according to accountants PwC. Aside from its own banks and industrial giants,Switzerlandis also home to high-paying trading houses attracted by favorable tax rates, in addition to the scenery and the agreeable lifestyle. OCCUPY MOVEMENT Calls to limit the pay of top executives are not restricted toSwitzerland. Anger over huge payouts was reflected in protests by the Occupy Movement. French President Francois Hollande is pushing ahead with a cap on pay at state-owned firms of 20 times that of the lowest paid employee.Spain's opposition Social Democrats have adopted the 1:12 ratio as part of its economic policy, Roth said. But the Swiss system of direct democracy - which allows for up to four national referendums a year - means popular outrage can more easily be translated into strong action. Disbelief over a proposed $78 million payoff to former Novartis chairman Daniel Vasella helped fuel support for a proposal to give shareholders a binding say on executive pay, which was overwhelmingly backed by voters in March. Some cantons have also scrapped preferential tax breaks for foreigners, while a grassroots committee is further calling forSwitzerlandto introduce a basic income of $2,800 per month from the state. Opponents, including the government and big business, say the proposal would hurt competitiveness, drive companies out of the country, cost jobs and lead to a shortfall in social security contributions and higher taxes. They have plastered train stations and billboards with black placards calling for a 'no' vote to a 'wage diktat'. Supporters, lacking the budget of business lobby groups, have hung red flags emblazoned with 1:12 from balconies and windows. CHIEF EXECUTIVES Glencore Xstrata Chief ExecutiveIvan Glasenberg, eligible to vote in the referendum after taking on Swiss nationality, told Swiss Sunday newspaperSonntagsZeitungthe initiative would be a catastrophe for his firm and could force the commodities giant to leaveSwitzerland. Glasenberg was paid $1.5 million last year, but as a shareholder he also made $173.5 million in dividends in the last year, which would not be affected by the referendum's proposals. Roche CEO Severin Schwan said it would be harder to recruit skilled staff if the proposal is accepted. Schwan was paid 261 times as much as Roche's lowest paid worker in 2012, according to a study by employee groupTravail.Suisse. The warnings appear to have rubbed off on voters. The latest poll published on November 13 by gfs.bern found 36 percent of respondents were in favor of the proposal, while 54 percent were against and 10 percent were undecided. To pass, the initiative needs to win a majority in the country's 26 cantons and among the total population. If the proposal is adopted, companies may try and get round the rules by outsourcing low paid jobs, giving top earners foreign subsidiary contracts or by leavingSwitzerlandaltogether, say Kepler Cheuvreux analysts. Cutting top salaries at firms in the financial sector, where wages are among the highest costs, could even have the side effect of boosting margins, they say. In 2009, Credit Suisse CEODougantook home 19.2 million francs in cash and stock, and was also paid 70 million francs worth of stock under a bonus plan for 2004. That meant his total pay was 1,182 times that of the bank's lowest paid employee, according toTravail.Suisse. Credit Suisse's former chairman Walter Kielholz has since called the payment program a mistake. The 1:12 campaign has not only made executives jittery. Managers of Swiss soccer clubs have also gone public with concerns about how to attract and retain top talent. "Switzerlandis not an island,"Andre Dose, chairman of theGrasshoppers clubinZurichtold the Schweiz am Sonntag paper. "If clubs can't pay the best Swiss players market rates, they will transfer abroad even earlier." ($1 = 0.9120 Swiss francs)
Google FinanceThe stock market has turned decidedly lower in the last few minutes on no obvious news. Best Buy is the biggest loser in the S&amp;P 500, down 9%. The electronics retailer reported disappointing Q3 comparable store sales growth and warned that competitive pricing could put the squeeze on profit margins during the holiday shopping season. Other notable losers today include First Solar (down 3.6%) and GameStop (down 2.5%). "Monetary policy is likely to remain highly accommodative long after one of the economic thresholds for the federal funds rate has been crossed," wrote Federal Reserve Chair nominee Janet Yellen in a letter to Senator Elizabeth Warren.
Michael Yarish/AMCThe best gift you can give is something thoughtful, something you know gets to the heart of what your special someone loves. And, if you're into having cool friends (or family), it's very likely you know someone who loves whiskey. Business Insider collected a bunch of the most original whiskey-lover gifts on the net so you can satisfy the person in your life that swears by the dark nectar, whether it be scotch, bourbon, rye or Irish. Basically, we're being thoughtful, so you don't have to be. You're welcome.
When it comes to gracious New York City living, few places outdo 15 Central Park West. But maintaining a high standard of decorum requires a few ground rules. The standard lease rules for tenants of the Zeckendorfs-developed condominium building run the gamut, from the banning of flammable materials to feeding pigeons, according to a standard Brown Harris Stevens lease obtained byThe Real Deal. The agreement, put together by the brokerage, which manages the building, is geared toward apartment owners who want to rent out their units. A spokesperson for Brown Harris Stevens declined to comment, and the firms Awilda Vicens and Brenna Clarke Bell, co-directors of the closing department at 15 Central Park West, did not respond to requests for comment. Some rules, such as one forbidding barbecuing, derive from New York City laws, according to one broker who has done numerous deals at the property but requested anonymity. And many are standard. But others seem tailored to the 202-unit building itself. For example, because the blockbuster development is something of a tourist attraction, a rule banning tours and exhibitions is on the books. Restrictions against shaking carpets out of unit windows and only using skateboards and strollers in a certain elevator, meanwhile, could be specific to Brown Harris Stevens-managed properties, rather than the building itself, another source said. But there are other buildings that have far more weird house rules, the source added, noting that in smaller buildings it can be far easier to get weird rules passed. Here are a few of the most colorful rules at 15 Central Park West, in all their glorious legalese: 1.No bicycles, rollerblades, scooters, skateboards or similar vehicle shall be taken into or from the building through the main entrance hall or shall be allowed in any of the elevators of the building other than the elevator designated by the Condominium Board or the Managing Agent for such purpose or ridden in the building or courtyard. 2.Trunks and heavy baggage shall be taken in or out of the building only by the elevator designated by the Condominium Board or the Managing Agent for the purpose and only through the service entrances. 3.Nothing shall be hung or shaken from any doors, windows, or placed upon the windowsills of the building. 4.There shall be no playing or lounging in the entrances, passages, public halls, elevators, vestibules, corridors stairways or fire towers of the building. 5.Residential unit owners shall, at their own cost and expense, obtain and keep in full force and effect for each residential unit, storage bin and wine cellar owned by them comprehensive personal liability insurance against claims of bodily injury, property damage coverage with a minimum combined single limit of liability of $1,000,000 per occurrence. The Condominium Board may, from time to time, increase the amounts or types of insurance required hereunder to reflect changes in economic conditions. 6.There shall be no barbecuing in the residential units, residential common elements or in the common elements. 7.No residential unit owner shall make, cause or permit any unusual, disturbing or objectionable noises or odors. 8.No residential unit owner shall play upon or suffer to be played upon any musical instrument, phonograph, radio, television set or other loudspeaker between 11:00 p.m. and the following 9:00 a.m. 9.No pigeons or other birds or animals shall be fed from the windowsills or other public portions of the building, or on the sidewalk or street adjacent to the building. 10.No visiting or guest pets shall be permitted in the building. 11.No group tour, open house or exhibition of any residential unit or its contents shall be conducted without the consent of the Condominium Board or the Managing Agent in each instance. 12.Not less than 80 percent of the total floor area of each room of the residential unit (excepting kitchens, pantries, bathrooms, closets and foyers) must be covered with rugs, carpeting or equally effective noise-reducing material. 13.Plantings shall be placed in containers impervious to dampness and standing on supports at least four inches from the terrace or roof surface.
Best Buy's amazing turnaround keeps gaining momentum.  The retailer's share price has more than doubled in the past year as CEO Hubert Joly makes changes that are helping Best Buy compete against retailers like Amazon and Wal-Mart.  One change has been especially instrumental in saving Best Buy, according to a recent note by analysts at Piper Jaffray.  Best Buy is executing "space optimization," according to the analysts.  In other words, Best Buy is replacing "10% of big box stores previously allocated to physical media with more profitable products."  Examples of space optimization include Best Buy's new Samsung Experience shops and Windows stores, according to research firm Trefis.  These profitable businesses replace stale, outdated merchandise at Best Buy, and attract more customers. Best Buy will see massive profits from space organization over the next two years, according to the Piper Jaffray note. 
REUTERS/Jason Reed Janet Yellen, President Barack Obama's nominee to lead the U.S. Federal Reserve, is sworn in to testify at her U.S. Senate Banking Committee confirmation hearing in Washington November 14, 2013.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. monetary policy will probably remain very easy for a long while even after either the Federal Reserve's interest rate hike threshold on lower unemployment, or inflation, has been crossed, Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen said in a letter to a U.S. lawmaker. Yellen also said the jobless rate threshold was not a trigger for action.  She was responding to a written question for the record from Massachusetts Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren following her hearing last week before the Senate Banking Committee to become the next Fed chair. "Monetary policy is likely to remain highly accommodative long after one of the economic thresholds for the federal funds rate has been crossed," she said in her written answer. Warren asked in her letter if it would be helpful to lower the Fed's unemployment rate target. Yellen, nominated by President Barack Obama to replace current Fed chair Ben Bernanke when his term expires on January 31, would be the first woman to lead the U.S. central bank. She is expected to win confirmation with relative ease. The Fed has pledged to hold rates near zero at least until the U.S. unemployment rate hits 6.5 percent, provided the outlook for inflation remains under 2.5 percent. The jobless rate in October was 7.3 percent. "It is also important to note that the thresholds are not triggers - that is, once a threshold has been crossed, the (Fed's policy-setting) committee will not necessarily raise the federal funds rate target immediately," Yellen said. Yellen's responses stuck closely to the tone of recent comments from Bernanke, as well as the October statement issued by Fed officials after they decided to maintain purchases of bonds at a $85 billion monthly pace. The Senate Banking Committee, which vets her suitability for the job before passing the nomination to the full Senate for consideration, will vote on her nomination Thursday. Obama's Democrats hold 12 of the 22 seats on the panel and control 55 of the 100 votes in the Senate. This should assure her nomination will proceed smoothly to the full Senate, where she is expected to comfortably pick up enough bipartisan support to secure the 60 votes needed to overcome Senate procedural hurdles to become the next Fed chief. (Reporting by Alister Bull, editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Diane Craft)
Is dog racing systematically abusive to greyhounds? Yes, I believe it is, although I can promise you that there were far more gruesome “sports” going on with dogs throughout the area. Would I ever go back to a dog track? No, I would not, but I’m not sorry that I did. The truth is that as a 17-year old kid out on a Friday night with his buddies in Greene County, I was blissfully unencumbered by concerns over the training methods employed or the post-race conditions endured at the kennel. The truth is that I enjoyed the rush of gambling, the excitement of hearing the announcer say “Heeere comes Lucky!” as the mechanical rabbit sped by the gates, and I learned some important lessons about both markets and human nature from the experience. Now supposedly it’s possible to handicap the potential risk and reward of a dog race as expressed in the odds posted at race time, but this always struck me (even at age 17) as a poor proposition. First of all, unless you are a trainer, and maybe not even then, it seems enormously difficult and costly to acquire private information. And even if you had useful private information, not only is it substantially less than a zero-sum game as the track managers take their cut, but also there is no market-maker to provide liquidity or lock-in the odds/price of your bet. You have some expectation of what the odds are likely to be, based on the tout sheets and the track’s pre-race odds estimations, but the actual pay-outs are entirely dependent on the distribution of actual bets placed by your fellow spectators and have no direct relationship to the pre-race estimations. You may correctly deduce that the pre-race odds on a particular dog are wrong and present an asymmetric risk/reward opportunity, but if everyone else makes the same calculation that asymmetry vanishes (or reverses) in a heartbeat, usually after you’ve placed your bet! Pari-mutuel betting is a wonderful example of the Common Knowledge game in action, where a dynamic assessment of what everyone thinks that everyone thinks is the most useful way to predict attractive pay- out odds, but even with perfect game-playing the enormous transaction costs and shallow liquidity make it a losing proposition. Still worse, though, is to believe that your “fundamental analysis” or straightforward handicapping of the limited public information actually provides you with an asymmetric risk/reward opportunity when everyone else is doing exactly the same thing. Is today’s stock market the functional equivalent of a dog race, where fundamental analysis of the risk and reward associated with a security based on limited public information is a sucker’s game? No. The fundamental investor is rescued over time by the non-zero sum nature of the stock market, as well as the presence of non-fundamental investors with different preference functions. But is there a dog racing aspect to today’s stock market that is growing in size and influence, aided and abetted by powerful institutions that want you respond atavistically to the market equivalent of a mechanical rabbit and the “Heeere comes Lucky!” call? Absolutely. On Thursday, September 12th, the weekly unemployment claims number came out as usual at 8:30 AM with a shockingly low result – only 292,000 Americans had filed for initial unemployment benefits in the past week, the lowest number in more than seven years and a decline of more than 30,000 applicants from the prior week. [NOTE: This post by Ben Hunt was originally published in September but republished at his suggestion following more reports of potential BLS data manipulation.] As it turns out, neither Nevada nor California reported complete data to the Labor Department, so the data release was significantly under-reporting actual claims, but this error was not part of the initial news release. Instead, the Labor Dept. only informed a few reporters of the mistake in an embargoed fashion, which meant that the “news” of the embedded error in the filing was announced in an ad hoc fashion by private news agencies after the official release. Both the substance and the process of the error were entirely avoidable, and it was such an egregious mistake that you had past and current officials of the Labor Dept.’s Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), who are apparently not directly responsible for collecting this data from the states, criticizing other Labor Dept. employees with more direct responsibility. To use a sports analogy, this is like the defensive line of a professional football team holding a press conference to criticize the offensive line … it never happens. It’s no surprise that the Labor Dept. made a ridiculously large error with the weekly initial unemployment claims, because this is a systematically biased and flawed data source, particularly under the current Administration. The chart below is a histogram (frequency distribution) of the errors made in the reporting of weekly unemployment claims during the Bush Administration from September 30th, 2005 through the November 2008 election. epsilontheory.com The horizontal axis consists of different “buckets” of errors as measured by the difference between the revisions that are reported one week later and the original report. For example, if the original report said that 300,000 people filed for unemployment benefits in a given week, but the revised report one week later said that 310,000 people filed for benefits, then that original report would fall into the 9-10k error bucket. A positive error means that the original report under-reported the true number of unemployment claims, and vice versa for a negative error. The more accurate the original reporting, the more the errors should be at or near the 0 mark on the horizontal axis, and the less biased the original reporting, the more the error bars should look like a bell curve centered on the 0 mark. In this chart, 36% of the original reports were error-free (no difference between the revised and original reports) and 47% of the original reports under-reported the actual unemployment claims by 1,000 to 2,000 people. There are a few weeks with slight over-reporting of unemployment claims and a few more weeks of more pronounced under- reporting of unemployment claims, but by and large this is a picture of a reasonably accurate and only slightly biased data report. And now here’s the frequency distribution of the errors made in the reporting of weekly unemployment claims during the Obama Administration from September 30th, 2009 through the November 2012 election. episilontheory.com I mean … I could go through all the statistics that show how accuracy declined and bias increased in the weekly unemployment claim reports from the Bush Administration to the Obama Administration, but this is a good example of how one picture is worth a thousand words. In the period 9/30/2009 through the November 2012 election, original Labor Dept. reports understated initial jobless claims by 858,000 relative to initial revisions. Compared to final revisions, the original estimates look even worse, understating jobless claims by 884,000. In the period 9/30/2005 through the November 2008 election, on the other hand, original Labor Dept. reports understated jobless claims by 292,000 relative to initial revisions. Compared to final revisions, the original reports understated jobless claims by only 5,000 people! Were there more initial jobless claims in the Obama time period than in the Bush time period? Yes, but only approximately 25% more. The total errors in initial revisions, on the other hand, increased almost 300% over the comparable time periods (and almost 180x versus final revisions!), and the skew towards under-reporting actual claims is even more pronounced. The systematic error and bias is almost certainly due to the same bureaucratic procedure that caused the most recent snafu – when individual states report incomplete or stupidly estimated data, the Labor Dept. takes those reports at face value and makes no effort to validate or correct them. The error and bias are obvious to the BLS, which is staffed with very smart people, and they could easily fix it if they wanted to. The BLS adjusts raw data all the time, and there are obvious statistical adjustments that could be applied to this obvious systematic error. But the BLS chooses not to fix it because the systematic bias favors the incumbent Administration and is embedded in standard operating procedures. Why make bureaucratic waves to fix this broken data series when turning a blind eye to its structural flaws works in your favor? Only now with this very public embarrassment and no re-election campaign ahead does Keith Hall, a former BLS commissioner, and “several” unnamed economists (i.e., current BLS commissioners) tell the WSJ that the methodology and bureaucratic oversight need to be improved. As intriguing as this data and shifting bureaucratic Narrative might be from a political perspective (let’s just say that Jack Welch was perhaps not totally wrong in his well-publicized comments regarding the suspicious nature of labor data prior to the 2012 election), there’s a still more interesting question here from an Epsilon Theory perspective. How did this tertiary data series … a labor statistic that maybe 1 in 1,000 professional investors was aware of pre-crisis … a labor statistic that the Bureau of Labor Statistics deemed too minor to administer (!) … come to be the subject of such incredible hand-wringing and scrutiny. Why are we paying such close attention to weekly initial unemployment claims? What does it mean for today’s market that this report is treated as a useful informational signal?  Part of the answer is wrapped up in Fed communications policy and its explicit linkage of monetary policy to labor conditions. I’ve written about this at length in “2 Fast 2 Furious”, and the linkage explains both a generic market and media interest in all things labor-related as well as a very specific interest in the labor statistics that the Fed has noted in its communications. But those communications have never included weekly initial unemployment claims data as a meaningful signal, and it is inconceivable that the Fed – which is staffed with even smarter people than the BLS – would give this data series any credence or weight whatsoever, except in the very broadest sense. Moreover, there are plenty of indications of labor conditions that we know the Fed cares about – the quality or permanence of new jobs, for example – that do not receive one iota of the media attention given to weekly initial unemployment claims. Here’s the outstanding quality of the initial unemployment claims data from a media presentation perspective – it’s weekly. The data release occurs precisely at 8:30 AM ET every Thursday. With its patina of labor-relevance it’s not an obviously stupid subject to highlight, and with its predictable timing and frequent occurrence it’s tailor-made for media scheduling. The media treatment of weekly initial unemployment claims is representative of the dog race-ification of capital markets, where artificial “events” are established and promoted in hopes of generating investor attention and activity. In dog racing, there is no meaning to the activity itself other than to provide a context for gambling on the outcome of some pseudo-analyzable event. College football games would still take place even if no one gambled on them, but that’s not the case for dog races. They exist only to excite a gambling animus, and everything about the creation and production of the race is geared to that end. Dog racing is an artificial and constructed practice that fills the coffers of the state Treasuries and the pockets of the Paul Bryant, Jr.’s of the world by providing a regularly scheduled and officially sanctioned venue for the satisfaction of powerful human desires. So, too, are many CNBC segments and WSJ articles.  The weekly unemployment claims number is probably the most egregiously artificial or constructed data series, but it is by no means unique. For example, within the broad category of housing conditions we now have enormous attention paid to weekly data on mortgage applications, as well as monthly data on housing starts, housing permits, new home sales, existing home sales, new home prices, existing home prices, Case-Shiller, and homebuilder sentiment. In general, there has been a pronounced increase in the level of financial media attention paid to regularly scheduled macro data releases – both US and non-US – over the past few years, and it’s a trend that shows no signs of abating. Whether it’s Jobs Friday™ (discussed extensively in “What We’ve Got Here … Is Failure to Communicate”) or Bloomberg’s latest branding effort around consumer sentiment, these macro “signals” are being created and promoted at an accelerating pace, to the benefit of any institution that relies on investment activity, regardless of what that activity is. Those institutions, of course, include every sell-side and media firm, not to mention most political and regulatory bodies. The fact is, once you start looking for artifice in the data signals we are bombarded with, you will find it everywhere. The point of this note and its identification of the constructed nature of so much of what passes for “data” these days is NOT to encourage you to ignore the reports. This is, unfortunately, what it means to live in a Common Knowledge world – even if you privately believe that much of what you hear is hokum, it is necessary and rational to act as if these are meaningful signals so long as everyone thinks that everyone thinks the signals have meaning. The point is to encourage you to recognize these data reports for what they are, to call them by their proper name, so that you limit your reaction to a rational Common Knowledge response rather than make the mistake of believing that these reports are any more analyzable in a fundamental fashion than the $5 tout sheet at the dog track in Greene County, Alabama. And the next time you hear a CNBC anchor breathlessly describe the importance of the upcoming data report, complete with a clock ticking down the seconds to its release, I hope you hear that broadcast for what it’s really saying – Heeere comes Lucky!
The Wolf of Wall Street is basedon the true story ofJordan Belfort,a greedy stockbroker who catapulted to the top of corporate America in the early 90s, His full story, starring Leonardo DiCaprio will be in theaters on Christmas Day, but until then, you can recreate the story through your own custom Gifs on the film's website. In 1998 the Securities and Exchange Commission shut down the company while the FBI arrested Belfort. He was convicted of money laundering and securities fraud in 2003 and was given a four-year prison sentence. However, Belfort only served 22months and paid $110.4million to a victim compensation fund.  He is now a motivational speaker and a sales techniqueconsultant for individual companies. Check out how we told the story through gifs from the movie trailer.    The Wolf Of Wall Street/Paramount Pictures        
YouTube/PulseVideoStarThe National Highway Traffic Administration has opened a probe into Tesla's battery fires. Specifically, the regulator wants to examine "the potential risks associated with undercarriage strikes on Model Year 2013 Tesla Model S vehicles." Deutsche Bank's Dan Galves believes the NHTSA's findings which should come in 60 days or less, will most likely be "benign." But what's his take on the battery fires? "Each of the 2 recent incidents that generated the investigation occurred when large metal objects struck at highway speeds caused significant damage to Model S batteries, resulting in fires," writes Galves in a note. "...We also believe that the location of the incidents outside California supports our view that these are rare occurrences and the timing was coincidental (i.e. if this was going to be a common issue, you would expect to have seen one in California, where the vast majority of Model S miles-driven have occurred to-date)." He said the NHTSA's comment after the first incident itself provides a clue. Back in October, after a Tesla Model S was involved in a fiery crash in Washington State, Galves wrote that the fire hadn't changed his "positive thesis on the company." At the time, the regulator said they weren't launching an investigation because the fire was expected to have been caused by the collision and wasn't a design flaw. Tesla has already offered to provide a software that "disables the functionality of the air suspension to lower the vehicle at highway speeds." He expects that the NHTSA will accept this remedy and that it won't really disrupt production or costs for Tesla. From Galves: "The Model S has 3 ground clearance settings: low: 4.62 inches, standard: 5.0 inches, high: 5.75 inches. This compares to BMW 535i at 5.55 inches and Porsche 911 at 4.17 inches. So, if NHTSA deemed it necessary, the Model S could be raised to equivalent to 5-Series through a software update." Meanwhile, Tesla CEO Elon Musk again took to the Tesla blog to point out that electric cars are safer than gasoline fueled cars. Musk has previously gone on record to say that Tesla gets an undue amount of media attention and Galves agrees, thought he points out that this can be a positive or a negative for the electric automaker. "I think having the U.S. government regulator investigate is a positive for Tesla, not for the stock,"Galves told Business Insider. "To bring closure to these episode you need a third party to weigh in." Galves still has a $200 price target for Tesla. The stock is up 4.5% today.
Sam Barnett is the 24-year-old founder and CEO of SBB Research Group — a Chicago-area quantitative hedge fund that currently has $115 million under management.  He started his fund while studying applied mathematics at California Institute of Technology. SBB Research Group currently employs 14 people and Barnett told us that they're actively recruiting talented engineers to join their team.  What they aren't looking for right now though are investors. There's a waitlist for new ones, Barnett told us.  He also said that he'd like to see the fund run more than $1 billion in assets.    While at CalTech, Barnett played in the No. 1 position on the school's varsity tennis team.  Now he plays tennis professionally competing on the ATP's Challenger Tour. His highest ranking in doubles was 801 in the world at one point.   On top of running a hedge fund and playing tennis, Barnett is also in the process of earning his Ph.D. from Northwestern.  He also teaches two classes at Kellogg School of Management alongside Professor Phillip Braun.  Oh, and he does karate — Barnett has a black belt in the martial art, and continues to train, though he doesn't compete. We caught up with him over the phone yesterday and have included a transcript of our conversation below. (Note: It has been lightly edited for clarity)  Business Insider: First off, tell us how you got interested in the markets.   Sam Barnett: Well, I've been interested in the markets for quite some time. It dates back to when I was in elementary school. I was good at math and interested in this kind of stuff. I actually played in a stock-picking game in school when I was in 5th grade. That's how I get interested in the markets, first. So basically I was interested in that, but really I was  studying math throughout my entire academic career and then I went to CalTech and majored in Applied Math. And really just pursuing numbers and looking for patterns in finance is a great way to apply that skill. And being able to combine numbers with competition, you know, I've enjoyed athletics my whole life and that influences my interest in finance because it basically is the perfect blend between data and keeping score.  SBB Research GroupBI: I read that when you were in high school you made $250,000. Talk to me about when you realized this is something you want to pursue.   SB: I think it was working out well. Things I was doing in practice were starting to work well in the market. And, I think when you have good results, that in itself is exciting. It's very motivating to keep pursuing and getting better results. I was always looking for new challenges.  BI: Talk to me about setting up SBB Research Group. How did this all happen?  SB: My sophomore year in college, I was basically starting an experiment to just see whether my algorithmic trading model I developed at CalTech would work. And basically it worked really well. I started with $2 million over the summer after my sophomore year. And  just before the beginning of my junior year I founded SBB Research Group and decided that it was going so well that I wanted to do it for real.  We made all the arrangements to, you know, have an offering starting in February the following year and doing it as professionally as possible and really taking it seriously as a business.  BI: And you run a quant-based strategy.  SB: Everything is very mathematically driven. Very disciplined. And we're constantly looking to cut our risk and outperform the market.  BI: So quant-based strategies, they seem to be one of the more polarizing subjects on Wall Street. What do you think the most misunderstood aspect of a quant strategy is by the general public?  SB: I think many people think that quant strategies inherently are riskier and quant strategies can be very much the opposite. You're relying on a disciplined strategy — a formula to invest in the market — rather than intuition and other kinds of subjective measures of how the market's doing. So in many ways, people think the quant market — the quant-driven strategies — are riskier, but, in fact, in our quant strategy we're able to limit risk much more than the other strategy.  BI: Has the low volatility environment of 2013 been good or a challenge for your quant-based strategies?  SB: I think we're able to find opportunities in every market environment and low volatility this year has been interesting. It's been different than things in the past, but one of the things that we try to do is we try to develop strategies that are theoretically able to perform in all kinds of markets, even conditions that haven't happened before. And another thing that people misunderstand about quant funds, is many quant funds rely on back-testing data as their main way of producing new strategies. But we develop strategies from a theoretical perspective also and so our strategies don't require that a particular year looks like any year in the past and that's really powerful. BI: A lot of quant strategies fall under 1.) Trend following 2). Mean reversion 3.) Relative value. Which category do you feel that you fall under?  SB: We employ a variety of different strategies that don't exclusively fall in one category versus another. And also, I should point out that our strategies are not high-frequency. So in terms of the strategies that more typically fall into the categories you outlined are high-frequency strategies looking to capitalize on small deviations from one of those three kinds of general models. We're really looking for true outperformance. When we make a prediction, we're in particular looking to see that being realized over a business quarter — 90 to 110 days.  Photo courtesy of SBB Research GroupBI: Is there any discretionary aspect to your strategies or are they all fully systematic?  SB: Once we have a strategy online, it's a systematized strategy. When we're developing the strategy we're using discretion in terms of coming up with new ideas and trying to formulate our intuition.  BI: I want to talk a little bit more about you. Your routine. How do you manage running a fund, going to school and playing tennis professionally?  SB: First of all, I don't sleep very much, but I get through the whole day because I have a wonderful team working with me ... That really helps me organize everything and be able to accomplish everything that we're doing. On a daily basis, I go to classes and work on research during the day. I'm also taking meetings and going to work and checking on things throughout the day. I'm practicing tennis during the night. My tennis club is nice enough to let me play when the club's closed. Sometimes I'm practicing at 11 or 12 at night, so I'm able to try and get that in as well.  BI: Let's talk about your tennis career. Tell me about that and what your goal is playing professionally.  SB: I've been playing tennis competitively for many years now. I first picked up a racquet when I was five and was pretty competitive by the time I was 10 and was a top-ranked junior throughout my junior career. In high school, I was fortunate as a senior to win the state championship in doubles for Illinois. ... After that, I played in college. I was the No. 1 player in singles and doubles for CalTech. And you know I always hoped throughout my entire tennis career that I would be able to play professionally someday. I was playing really well in college and decided to try and start playing professionally. My lifetime goal was to get a world ranking and I was able to do that. Now I'm just trying to continue to improve and continue to do better and challenge myself more.  BI: Do you find that playing a sport has helped you with your trading?  SB: Absolutely. I mean I'm a competitive person so I like that aspect. I also feel like having an athletic pursuit alongside business endeavors is a good balance. I think of things for my business when I'm on the court. It's good to have that other perspective and other part of life.  BI: What advice would you give to a young person? SB: I'd advise that someone focus on the skills in the area that they're really interested in more so than the actual job or actual application that they think they want to do. I've built my career thus far on developing mathematical expertise. I was really interested in playing with data and numbers and that gave me the tools that I needed to launch an algorithmic hedge fund. So I always suggest that people focus on developing skills and studying things that really interest them and also to just keep learning all the time. People ask me all the time 'Why are you still in school? Why are you in the Ph.D. program?' and I just tell them that there are so many more things to learn and continuing to hone skills and staying on the cutting edge of research and academia is so important as well.  BI: Speaking of learning, in your experience has there been a major lesson you've learned?  SB: I think that's also something that connects very strongly with athletics. There are wins and losses in everything. You try so many different strategies and you're trying all these different mathematical ideas and not everything works and it's important to be patient and to continue looking for really successful ideas when you encounter failure. 
Reuters/Jason LeeChina held its much anticipated Third Plenum earlier this month. And markets reacted favorably to the "decision" that followed a few days later. Policymakers said they would loosen China's one child policy, abolish the notorious labor-camps, encourage more private investment in state-owned enterprises, push more rural land reforms, and advance more financial reform in the form of interest rate and capital account liberalization. Clearly this is a lot to digest. So, we reached out to some of our top China experts and asked them them three simple questions. 1. What were you most disappointed by? 2. What was the most meaningful reform? and 3. What has the media gotten wrong? Here's what they said. David Cui, Bank of America: "The only disappointment is, other than stating vaguely that the leaders aim to achieve decisive results in important areas and critical segments by 2020, there is no other comment on timeline. We are afraid that the implementation will be on a piecemeal basis and only easy reforms, like one-child policy and raising utilities prices, will see any meaningful progress anytime soon, while tough reforms, like land, Hukou and SOE reforms, will be left to languish." Bill Bishop, Sinocism: "Perhaps the most disappointing is the language around the state-owned economy. It is better than nothing but there could be some real contradictions in allowing the market to play a decisive role in allocating resources. So we just do not now what is really going to happen over the next few years, and given that there was some expectation that there would be nothing in here about SOE reform this is perhaps a sign of some resolve towards cleaning them up and making them more efficient, even if widespread privatization is not on the table." Diana Choyleva, Lombard Street Research: "I think capital account opening and interest rate liberalization and land rights are the most meaningful. ...My disappointment is only that they didn't commit to a more concrete timetable. My view is that such reform will need to be implemented fairly quickly to be successful." Alaistair Chan, Moodys: "There are always more reforms in China that could be announced and enacted, as China still has a long way to go in its transition toward developed economy status. One change that was not forthcoming (although the chance of it happening was admittedly slim) was political reform, and providing greater transparency in the governments actions." Patrick Chovanec, Silvercrest Asset Management: "I think what came out of the plenum is about as good as can be expected. I don't see any major disappointments." Alastair Newton, Nomura:  "My expectations were a good deal lower than markets' generally; so there was nothing I expected to see which doesn't appear to be there in one form or other. The problem with singling out any particular issue is that so many areas are interrelated, ie reform in one necessitates wider reforms. However, if I had to single out one it was the failure - again - of the CCP firmly to grasp the nettle of rural land reform, ie giving the farmers right of land ownership." DC: "From [where] we stand, the most meaningful reform resulting from the 3rd Plenum is the decision by policymakers to allow the market to play a decisive role in resources allocation. Furthermore, it is a significant and somewhat surprising development that SOE reform has been given a very prominent position in the larger reform agenda." BB: "The most important things about this report are the shift in language to talking about the market playing a decisive role, the establishment of the reform small leading group reporting to party center, and the new national security commission." DC, LSR: "The above reform [capital account and interest rate liberalization] and rural land rights." AC: "I cant really point to a single policy that stands out as the best or most meaningful. I think the overall scope and range (the comprehensive nature) of the reforms is the most meaningful aspect. It shows Beijings commitment to building momentum for a general attitude towards reform in all levels of government. The confident push toward allowing markets to play a decisive role in the economy is very welcome and is an acknowledgment that the government is not capable of directing the next era of economic growth." PC: "We haven't seen ANY reforms come out of the plenum yet. We've seen a plan. I'll be watching eagerly to see what actually follows." Ting Lu, BoFA: Ending the labor camp, significantly easing the one child policy, and vertically integrate judiciary system. AN: "I don't have a view on this other than that implementation will be key irrespective." BI: What is the one thing the media is getting wrong? DC: "There is very little discussion on the negative impact of the coming round of reforms on the market. Take SOE reform as an example, it's true that SOEs currently in competitive sectors like F&amp;B and logistics will benefit because proper incentive schemes may be put in place for their senior managers. However, these type of companies only account for roughly 10% of MSCI China. On the other hand, government protected SOE sectors, whose franchise value may get eroded by the reforms, account for roughly 75% of the index. The same is probably true for the overall reform program. We assess that it will be negative to major banks because of interest rate deregulation and increasing competition, to property market due to the property tax and rising land supply and to investment led sectors as a result of the rebalancing of the economy as consumption-driven. Again these sectors account for a far bigger market cap than the likely beneficiaries." DC, LSR: "They missed the strength of the communiqu message which we got right." BB: "Many in the media were too quick to jump on the initial communique and say there is no real reform. my understanding is that the reaction was so negative to the communique (not just in the western media but inside china) that they moved up the release of the Decision from 11.20 to last Friday. "Now we are at risk of too much exuberance. As I wrote Monday "The Decision is impressive and shows that the leadership is both aware of and committed to deep reforms. Fridays exuberance however may be a bit overdone as the truly hard part is not the drafting but the implementation of changes that will affect interests throughout society. But at least Xi has clearly articulated resolve and vision for reform. That is huge progress, especially after the last few years. China still faces significant economic and social challenges, but lack of political will no longer appears to be one of them.""The other thing is that this may help end some of the misguided commentary about Xi as a Maoist I have been arguing for a while that he looks more Dengist than Maoist, and the Third Plenum Decision only makes that view stronger. Others are coming around, including the WSJ editorial page today." AC: "Reform in China is a continual process. Hence this is just one part (albeit an important part) of a multi-decade long process. The plans are a blueprint, and will change based on how fast different parts of the bureaucracy react and on economic circumstances and so on. So the exact ideas are not as important as the general comprehensive nature of the entire document." PC: "There's a big difference between announcing reforms and implementing them. There's a notion out there that the big obstacle to market reform in China is entrenched special interests, and that the plenum document shows that this obstacle has been overcome. Maybe. But there are also many practical obstacles to reform, because real reform would significant change the dynamics of the Chinese economy, in ways that could very disruptive in the short term. So we need to judge China's latest reform push by its results, not its intentions (and some of those results need to happen very fast to avoid some serious economic problems that are brewing -- just look at what the interbank lending rate is doing while everyone cheers the plenum reform plan)." TL: "[It's] hard to see. Media are different." AN: "First, it was too up-beat in the run-up, then it was too down-beat last week faced with something well short of its own hyperbole. Now it isn't giving enough thought to the challenges of implementation."
Click for sound.   Sharon Meers, an author of "Getting To 50/50: How Working Parents Can Have It All" and a former Goldman Sachs executive, talks about what happens when women come back to work after maternity leave. Produced by Justin Gmoser
John Crudele at The New York Post is out with an explosive piece titled: Census ‘faked’ 2012 election jobs report. It alleges that workers conducting the Household Survey (the survey from which the Unemployment Rate is derived) fabricated phony responses at the behest of their supervisors. The article also hints in the title and in the opening paragraphs that this is connected to the jobs reports right before the 2012 election, including the infamous September jobs report, when the unemployment rate fell from 8.1% to 7.8%, prompting Jack Welch to make his well-known "Chicago Guys" comment. The issue of data quality is an important one, and the extent to which people are fabricating survey responses is something that needs to be addressed and corrected. But here are a few issues with the report. 1. The meat of the article doesn't actually say what the title and introduction claim it says. The alleged fakery was not a pre-2012 thing, but rather something that had been an issue for years. In one document from the probe, Program Coordinator Joal Crosby was ask in 2010, “Why was the suspected … possible data falsification on all (underscored) other survey work for which data falsification was suspected not investigated by the region?” 2. The article also does not say that there was a conspiracy to depress the stated unemployment rate. The guy at the center of the story says there was pressure to produce responses (in order to hit the target for the number of households they surveyed) but that there was no pressure on how to report them: But, Buckmon says, he was never told how to answer the questions about whether these nonexistent people were employed or not, looking for work, or have given up. 3. While it's true that at the time the September Jobs Report looked very weird, in retrospect that drop-off in the unemployment rate looks totally on-trend. FRED 4. Also, the article states that the problem was focused on one region. Census currently has six regions from which surveys are conducted. The New York and Philadelphia regions, I’m told, had been coming up short of the 90 percent. Philadelphia filled the gap with fake interviews. One main problem with this, however, is that the unemployment rate in Pennsylvania barely dipped in September. (via Corey Bowers) FRED As for New York, it also saw a normal-looking decline in September. FRED So bottom line, there are some issues with the article itself (the meat doesn't match the explosive headline) and the data also doesn't quite line up. But we're still looking into it, and are eager to hear what the Department of Labor and the Census Department are saying.
Even though Former Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner isn't going to one of Wall Street's powerhouse firms, he could still turn himself into a billionaire in a few years if he makes the right moves. This weekend private equity firm Warburg Pincus announced that Geithner would be joining the company to help it make connections, do deals, and generally become an everyday part of its operations. Since then, journalists like Andrew Ross Sorkin over at Dealbook have been right to point out that Geithner isn't necessarily doing the old "leave-the-public-sector-to-join-the-dark side" move with this new job. Warburg Pincus is no Goldman Sachs, with "tentacles" in every transaction on the face of the planet. It's no Blackstone either (which is more comparable as a private equity firm). Blackstone is a public company, Warburg is private. As of December 2012, Blackstone had $202 billion in assets under management, which dwarfs Warburg's $35 billion. But that could all change with an aggressive push in the right direction. By hiring Geithner, Warburg Pincus has shown that it wants to expand its network through his Rolodex. Totally fine. The firm also just did the biggest deal in its history this fall, flipping Bausch &amp; Lomb Holdings Inc for $8.7 billion. Warburg bought it in 2007 for $4.5 billion. Not bad. So the ambition necessary to make Geithner fabulously wealthy could be there on the firm's part. And it just so happens that in private equity, there's a bit of a playbook for turning the C-level executives into billionaires. It's an IPO. Oaktree Capital and The Carlyle Group did it in 2012 — not the best timing but Oaktree's Howard Marks, and David M. Rubenstein and his co-founders over at Carlyle still got to be billionaires. KKR did it in 2010 with $55 billion under management (not too far from Warburg's $35 billion) — they had a better showing, and of course co-founders Henry Kravis and George Roberts got to join the billionaires club as well. The master of this play though, has to be Blackstone Group. The firm went public in 2007, and at the time it was one of the largest IPOs in the U.S. in five years.  Current CEO Steve Schwarzman got even richer than he already was — rich enough to throw lavish birthday BLOWOUTS with celebs for the rest of his life. And so did Schwarzman's co-founder, former public servant Pete Peterson. He made $1.8 billion off the IPO, retiring shortly after. Before that, Peterson worked in the Nixon administration as Secretary of Commerce. Now to do this, Geithner would have to make an extra leap or two by taking a fat stake in the company. But there's hope for him yet.
"Eskom declares South Africa power emergency after losing units," reports Bloomberg. Eskom is South Africa's state-owned power utility, and it is responsible for almost all of the country's power. According to Bloomberg, the company recently warned that the risk of blackouts across the country was at its highest level since 2008. South Africa's currency, the rand, is falling on the latest news. Here's the move via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
Lee Jae Won/Reuters The Central Intelligence Agency is suffering major attrition among officers working closely with the nation's elite financial institutions, reports Jeff Stein for Newsweek. The National Resources Division (NR), a highly-secretive domestic component of the CIA's National Clandestine Service, is responsible for gathering information from Americans who have access to information the CIA needs — like those who have visited or reside in countries like North Korea and China.  Agents in New York tasked with tracking terrorist funds abroad develop sources inside elite firms. The sources give the agents access to world class financial infrastructure and world class intelligence.  After a while though, the temptation for the finer, 1% lifestyle, takes root. From Newsweek: They get a pretty nice housing allowance and all that, but you've got an officer who, as part of his portfolio, he's supposed to be meeting with Joe Blow at Morgan Stanley or Goldman Sachs. And after a year or two of this, it begins to fray. And you've got these people at Goldman Sachs who take a look at you and say, 'You know, you're a good guy, you've got all the skill sets we need, and, oh, by the way, we'll basically triple your salary.' And it's, you know, 'When do I start?' So attrition is a big problem."  New York City-based NR agents develop these financial resources sources in order to track terrorist funds and bust illegal money transfers around the world. “There are trillions of dollars of illegal currency in constant circulation. Improved enforcement on transactions is a must, and regulators are pressing for more and better training of professionals in the financial institution sector," said John James, executive director at the Center for Global Governance, Reporting and Regulation at Pace University in New York. The revolving door goes both ways, according to Newsweek, since most corporate executives "love hanging out" with the agency's top spies, seeking to maintain influence in Capitol Hill.
What may drive additional gains? The market will focus on several things: holiday shopping, seasonal patterns, and the December Federal Reserve meeting. Holiday Shopping As Black Friday approaches, market participants turn their attention to holiday shopping as a barometer of the health of the economy and as an indicator for potential leadership by the companies in the consumer discretionary sector. The National Retail Federation projects 2013 holiday sales to rise 3.9% this year, slightly ahead of last years 3.5% increase. We believe this expectation for a close-to-average year (holiday sales have increased 3.3%, on average, for the last 10 years) will likely be exceeded for a few reasons:<U+0083> Seasonal Patterns End-of-year seasonal patterns are frequently a focus of market participants due to the tendency of fund managers and individuals to tidy up portfolios for tax and other reasons around year end. However, there is not likely to be much tax loss selling this year, given the broad and powerful gains, but we can expect a lot of capital gain distributions from funds that could prompt some volatility. The January effect of outperformance by smaller company stocks has tended to start in mid-December in recent years after they have been dumped for tax loss selling and other reasons. But what may lead the market higher? Based on the above analysis, it could be the consumer discretionary sector. This sector typically has a pretty consistent pattern of outperformance in November and December. The industrials sector also tends to outperform historically, while financials and energy tend to lag. Fed Meeting The Fed meeting on December 1718 may be the biggest event during the rest of 2013, and it will be closely watched by market participants. Although it is a long shot that the Fed will announce tapering its bond-buying program at that meeting, the statement, accompanying economic projections, and press conference will be scrutinized for insights regarding whether tapering will begin in January, March, or beyond.Bond yields may rise in response to improving economic data ahead of the meeting, continuing the slow-but-steady rise in yield from the 2.5% on the 10-year Treasury seen in late October. However, we are unlikely to see a sharp rise that would have a strong negative impact on the stock market. A Strong Close A strong close to a strong year may be in store for stocks. A pass on tapering by the Fed may boost stocks headed into year-end, meaning the S&amp;P 500 finishes the year with a Santa Claus rallythe tendency for the stock market to post gains between Christmas and New Years Day, a period that has averaged a 1.5% return since WWII.
Flickr/ruffin_readyCampbell Soup Co. has reported that its fiscal first-quarter earnings fell 30% as U.S. soup sales declined 6% and the company spent heavily on marketing new flavors and packaging. Jefferies analyst Thilo Wrede says the sales decline is part of a long-term trend against canned goods in the U.S. as consumers seek less processed foods that have a shorter shelf life. To reverse that trend, Campbell's must invest in chilled soups and boxed packaging, Wrede wrote in a research note.  "We would argue that soup per se is not the problem, but the packaging and innovation in the U.S. market is leading to the underwhelming performance of the category," Wrede wrote. "We believe that Campbell could reverse this trend by more aggressively investing in chilled soup, using the Bolthouse brand as its vehicle." Wrede argued that growing the share of chilled soup from 3% of the canned category to 10% could increase revenue by roughly $340 million.  The Bolthouse brand would serve as a good vehicle for the investment because it "stands for vegetable (and fruit) based products ... and appears to be well regarded among Millennials." Wrede pointed to the successful growth of chilled soup in the U.K., where it is 33% of the canned volume, as a sign that it would be successful in the U.S. The U.K. consumes 26% more soup per capita than the U.S. "While the canned soup trends in the U.K. are healthier than [in the U.S.], the growth of the overall category is mainly driven by chilled soups that have a shorter shelf life and are considered to be less processed/more natural," Wrede wrote.  Wrede said New Convent Gardens is an example of a brand that effectively markets chilled, boxed soups in the U.K.: Jefferies   The closest that Campbell gets to New Convent's flavor selection are the Millennial targeted Go Soups, according to Wrede. "However, compared to the resealable TetraPak containers of New Covent Garden, the pouch packaging of Go Soup seems to be impractical and we are not fans of the black and white graphics either," he wrote.  Here's Campbell's Go Soup: Jefferies
APEvery industry has its movers and shakers. Men and women who, by virtue of their chutzpah and determination, built new companies, saved them from the brink of extinction, or forged new paths for others to follow. To celebrate their creativity and bold innovation, we rounded up the business leaders who were major game-changers in tech, retail, entertainment, media, and finance this year.
Many people have argued that the recovery has been filled with crappy jobs, but a new report from Goldman finds this is not the case This chart shows that the growth of middle-wage jobs in this recovery has generally been consistent with past decades. Goldman Sachs Net employment is up slightly for industries in the bottom 20% and top 5% of the wage percentile, but is only down slightly in the middle 75%. This is in line with the pre-recession trend when growth in the top and bottom wage percentiles slightly outpaced growth in middle-income employment. The recovery has done little to exacerbate this trend. Goldman also looked at individual industries to see how their employment growth after the recession compares to the pre-recession trend (industries are ranked by wage level, lowest at the left): Goldman Sachs This data demonstrates that employment growth has been stronger since the start of the recession for low- and high-wage industries. However, Goldman attributes much of the decline in middle-income employment to be because of the steep decline in the recession itself and not necessarily due to employment growth during the recovery.

ConvergEx GroupImplied volatilities have declined across asset classes over the past month.Since the U.S. government shutdown in October, there has been a broad collapse in volatility across the global financial market landscape. ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas publishes a monthly review of implied volatilities in various asset classes for clients, and he says the latest data point to complacency among investors in an unusual way.  "The CBOE VIX Index is broadly lower (although it had a bounce yesterday) and so is the VIX of gold, silver, industrial stocks, high yield bonds, emerging market stocks… You get the idea," writes Colas in his report. "That's an unusual development in our book, and typically only occurs when the VIX is falling from a high level (+20) in the aftermath of some crisis. That’s not the case here, so we chalk it up to an extremely high level of investor complacency about near term market direction." Wall Street continues to convey a bullish stance on stocks headed into the final weeks of 2013. Today, Oppenheimer chief investment strategist John Stoltzfus raised his year-end S&amp;P 500 price target to 1812 from 1730. Friday, JPMorgan chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee hiked his target to 1825 from 1775. The index closed Monday at 1791. "In our view, the case for continuing to maintain a positive stance on equities remains in place given: (i) improving economic momentum to support upward EPS revisions (pent-up demand in U.S. housing, autos, construction, capex and a recovery in the euro area); (ii) attractive relative value (particularly vs. corporate bonds), (iii) supportive monetary policy and (iv) sentiment that is not excessively bullish," said Lee in a note. Normally, the implied volatility of an asset falls when the price of the asset rises. However, Colas notes that despite the across-the-board decline in volatility over the past month, it is not the case that all of these assets have been rallying. "Far from it, in fact," says Colas. "Precious metals lost ground in the past month, as did emerging markets, telecom stocks, corporate bonds, and energy names." So, why is implied volatility down across assets? "It’s pretty clear that equity market participants feel they have everything figured out," says Colas. "No news from the Fed until Chairwoman Yellen takes the helm. Some increasing hope for an accelerating global economic outlook in 2014. Still high corporate profits. Low interest rates." Despite the implications of continued easy monetary policy and a generally bullish stance toward stocks, Wall Street strategists stress the importance of improvement in fundamentals to a continued rally in the market. "Year to date, 75% of the S&amp;P return has come from its [price-to-earnings ratio] expanding to 16.5x from 13.7x trailing EPS at 2012 end," writes Deutsche Bank chief U.S. equity strategist David Bianco in a note to clients. "Excluding 2009, this is the largest [valuation multiple] contribution to market return since 1998. Before assuming further [multiple] expansion we think it is important that investors be confident in healthy EPS growth next year. Hence, we encourage frequent re-examination of the capex and loan outlook upon new data points." Colas leaves clients with a note of caution. "The data from our monthly [implied volatility] review make us think that the light might be turning yellow soon," he says. "All the cars around us are picking up the pace, confident that they can stop when the light shifts from vermillion to sunflower. And maybe they will be able to see the light, respond, and slow down quickly when the time comes. But as with real traffic lights, investors may not have enough time to respond."
As the greatest urbanisation drive in history swells China's cities with ranks of identikit apartment blocks, one culinary businessman is indulging his architectural appetite with a visual feast of extravagant, outlandish castles. "I don't have any hobbies, except for planting trees and building castles," said Liu Chonghua, standing on a crenellated turret atop the largest of the six he has constructed. Liu, who made millions from feeding China's growing appetite for cakes and bread, now plans to make his home in the grey stone structure, which resembles Britain's Windsor Castle and towers above the surrounding rice fields. His others include a red-brick fairy-tale edifice stacked with soaring spires, which seems to have emerged from Disney's version of Aladdin, and a white confection with candy-coloured towers reminiscent of Neuschwanstein, the hilltop fantasy built by Bavaria's 19th century 'Mad' King Ludwig II. "When I was a child I heard stories about princes and castles," said Liu, 59, adding that he grew up "with an empty stomach every day" in China's countryside and was sent to dig ditches during the political upheavals of the 1960s. After making his fortune, he said, "I wanted to turn the castles of my dreams into something real." Liu is one of several Chinese millionaires channelling their wealth into eccentric projects, but his designs have led to death threats and put him on a collision course with local officials in the southwestern megacity of Chongqing. His designs were stimulated by buildings in Munich and the chateaux of France's Loire Valley, he said, citing maverick Spanish architect Antoni Gaudi, designer of Barcelona's Sagrada Familia cathedral, as an inspiration. One of his construction workers, former soldier Ma Wenneng, tinkered with a fountain on a balcony and dismissed the challenges of recreating foreign designs on Chinese soil. "Actually, European castles are really easy to build," he said. "The boss has a book of castle pictures in his office and we use that as a reference." China's building boom is unprecedented in human history, with the country's urban population growing by an average of over 20 million people a year for more than a decade -- resulting in hectares of utilitarian, cookie-cutter developments. Urbanisation has raised living standards for millions, but Liu says he is taking a stand against miles of identical apartments. "China needs castles, because it needs a more pluralistic culture," he said. "A city needs people who have dreams, to help society develop." Liu is not the only person chafing at China's homogenous urban environment. The then vice minister of construction Qiu Baoxing complained in 2007 of "a thousand cities having the same appearance". Tom Miller, an expert on China's urbanisation, said: "If you were parachuted in blind to almost any Chinese city, and you were looking around, you would have the same uniform buildings. "When you are building at that kind of enormous speed, you don't worry about aesthetic niceties," he added. But daring new projects from Chinese developers, often employing star international architects, and state-led efforts to renovate historical districts suggest a gradual shift in attitudes. "People are realising that it's not good for everything to look identical, and are realising tourists will pay to see something different," Miller said. Liu says he spent more than 100 million yuan ($16 million), some borrowed from friends, on the buildings, which are free to visit. "I think the castles are very romantic," said a woman surnamed Gao, posing for pictures in a white wedding dress outside a castle beside the headquarters of Liu's firm, which manufactures pastries, biscuits and a product described as a "dreamlike cake." Some local officials feel differently, and two years ago they brought a section of Liu's dream crashing down, sending diggers to knock over a 16 metre high castle gate. "That was my lowest moment," he said. "The government has never appreciated me, they said I've offended local officials," he complained, adding: "I got anonymous calls from someone threatening to run me over with a car." Other newly-minted Chinese magnates have also engaged in bizarre construction projects -- one businessman has built imitations of both the Great Pyramid of Giza and the palace of Versailles on his corporate campus -- but Liu has ambitions for more. "I have achieved half of my dream," he said. "The next part is building better and more awesome castles, the kind that will astound people." Staring wistfully into the distance, he pointed towards a forested mound. "I will build another, bigger castle on top of that hill," he said. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. Check out more photos below: Peter Parks/AFPOne of the castles built by eccentric Chinese cake millionaire Liu Chonghua, seen outside southwest metropolis of Chongqing, on August 8, 2013 Peter Parks/AFPEccentric cake millionaire Liu Chonghua, pictured at one of his castles outside China's southwest metropolis of Chongqing, on August 8, 2013 
REUTERS/BeawihartaThe bull sarcophagus containing the body of Tjokorda Gde Agung Suyasa, a member of Ubud's royal family, burns during the Pelebon procession, or The Royal Cremation Ceremony, in Ubud, on the Indonesian island of Bali, July 15, 2008.Everyone's talking about the risk of an impending stock market crash. Even the bulls are warning that stocks might fall before rising again. While it's reasonable to argue that stocks are getting expensive, it may be extreme and perhaps out of line to argue that stocks are doomed to crash. The argument that stocks and profits surged too quickly only reflects the bear's short-term memory. In the following 19 slides, you will see that the pace of the stock market rally has been very typical, the profit recovery has been average, valuations aren't signaling trouble, record high profit margins are sustainable, and companies are stronger than ever. You will also see that companies will benefit from numerous tailwinds that will boost demand for a wide array of goods and services.
Mike Forsythe, the Bloomberg reporter who is at the center of a controversy about Bloomberg curtailing its investigative reporting has left the company. It had been previously reported that Forsythe had been suspended from Bloomberg news after details leaked about Bloomberg's plan in China. @pekingmike For a reminder of what this is all about, this Taiwan Animation is a great recap. 
TwitterTesla CEO Elon Musk has a new blog post addressing the news of his cars catching on fire. The full post is below.  Musk reiterates that the Model S is one of the safest cars on the road. "Despite multiple high-speed accidents, there have been no deaths or serious injuries in a Model S of any kind ever," says Musk. "Of course, at some point, the law of large numbers dictates that this, too, will change, but the record is long enough already for us to be extremely proud of this achievement." As for the reports of Teslas catching on fire, he says: There are now substantially more than the 19,000 Model S vehicles on the road that were reported in our Q3 shareholder letter for an average of one fire per at least 6,333 cars, compared to the rate for gasoline vehicles of one fire per 1,350 cars. By this metric, you are more than four and a half times more likely to experience a fire in a gasoline car than a Model S! Considering the odds in the absolute, you are more likely to be struck by lightning in your lifetime than experience even a non-injurious fire in a Tesla. Those metrics tell only part of the story. The far more deadly nature of a gasoline car fire deserves to be re-emphasized. Since the Model S went into production mid last year, there have been over 400 deaths and 1,200 serious injuries in the United States alone due to gasoline car fires, compared to zero deaths and zero injuries due to Tesla fires anywhere in the world. There is a real, physical reason for this: a gasoline tank has 10 times more combustion energy than our battery pack. Moreover, the Model S battery pack also has internal firewalls between the 16 modules and a firewall between the battery pack and passenger compartment. This effectively limits the fire energy to a few percent that of a gasoline car and is the reason why Dr. Shibayama was able to retrieve his pens and papers from the glove compartment completely untouched after the recent fire (caused by a high speed impact with a tow hitch). It is also why arsonists tend to favor gasoline. Trying to set the side of a building on fire with a battery pack is far less effective. Musk has a three-point plan to deal with Teslas catching on fire: First, we have rolled out an over-the-air update to the air suspension that will result in greater ground clearance at highway speeds. To be clear, this is about reducing the chances of underbody impact damage, not improving safety. The theoretical probability of a fire injury is already vanishingly small and the actual number to date is zero. Another software update expected in January will give the driver direct control of the air suspension ride height transitions. Second, we have requested that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration conduct a full investigation as soon as possible into the fire incidents. While we think it is highly unlikely, if something is discovered that would result in a material improvement in occupant fire safety, we will immediately apply that change to new cars and offer it as a free retrofit to all existing cars. Given that the incidence of fires in the Model S is far lower than combustion cars and that there have been no resulting injuries, this did not at first seem like a good use of NHTSA’s time compared to the hundreds of gasoline fire deaths per year that warrant their attention. However, there is a larger issue at stake: if a false perception about the safety of electric cars is allowed to linger, it will delay the advent of sustainable transport and increase the risk of global climate change, with potentially disastrous consequences worldwide. That cannot be allowed to happen. Third, to reinforce how strongly we feel about the low risk of fire in our cars, we will be amending our warranty policy to cover damage due to a fire, even if due to driver error. Unless a Model S owner actively tries to destroy the car, they are covered. Our goal here is to eliminate any concern about the cost of such an event and ensure that over time the Model S has the lowest insurance cost of any car at our price point. Either our belief in the safety of our car is correct and this is a minor cost or we are wrong, in which case the right thing is for Tesla to bear the cost rather than the car buyer. Here's the complete post: Our goal when we created Tesla a decade ago was the same as it is today: to accelerate the advent of sustainable transport by bringing compelling mass market electric cars to market as soon as possible. If we could have done that with our first product, we would have, but that was simply impossible to achieve for a startup company that had never built a car and that had one technology iteration and no economies of scale. Our first product was going to be expensive no matter what it looked like, so we decided to build a sports car, as that seemed like it had the best chance of being competitive with its gasoline alternatives. I suspected that this could be misinterpreted as Tesla believing that there was a shortage of sports cars for rich people, so I described the three step “master plan” for getting to compelling and affordable electric vehicles in my first blog piece about our company. This was unfortunately almost entirely ignored. In order to get to that end goal, big leaps in technology are required, which naturally invites a high level of scrutiny. That is fair, as new technology should be held to a higher standard than what has come before. However, there should also be some reasonable limit to how high such a standard should be, and we believe that this has been vastly exceeded in recent media coverage. How Does the Tesla Model S Fire Risk Compare to Gasoline Cars? Since the Model S went into production last year, there have been more than a quarter million gasoline car fires in the United States alone, resulting in over 400 deaths and approximately 1,200 serious injuries (extrapolating 2012 NFPA data). However, the three Model S fires, which only occurred after very high-speed collisions and caused no serious injuries or deaths, received more national headlines than all 250,000+ gasoline fires combined. The media coverage of Model S fires vs. gasoline car fires is disproportionate by several orders of magnitude, despite the latter actually being far more deadly. Reading the headlines, it is therefore easy to assume that the Tesla Model S and perhaps electric cars in general have a greater propensity to catch fire than gasoline cars when nothing could be further from the truth. Journalists with a deep knowledge of the car industry, such as the news editor of Automotive News, understand and attempt to rebut this notion, but they have been drowned out by an onslaught of popular and financial media seeking to make a sensation out of something that a simple Google search would reveal to be false. I would also like to express appreciation for the investigative journalists who took the time to research and write an accurate article. The degree to which this is outrageous is described well in the above-mentioned Automotive News article. There are now substantially more than the 19,000 Model S vehicles on the road that were reported in our Q3 shareholder letter for an average of one fire per at least 6,333 cars, compared to the rate for gasoline vehicles of one fire per 1,350 cars. By this metric, you are more than four and a half times more likely to experience a fire in a gasoline car than a Model S! Considering the odds in the absolute, you are more likely to be struck by lightning in your lifetime than experience even a non-injurious fire in a Tesla. Those metrics tell only part of the story. The far more deadly nature of a gasoline car fire deserves to be re-emphasized. Since the Model S went into production mid last year, there have been over 400 deaths and 1,200 serious injuries in the United States alone due to gasoline car fires, compared to zero deaths and zero injuries due to Tesla fires anywhere in the world. There is a real, physical reason for this: a gasoline tank has 10 times more combustion energy than our battery pack. Moreover, the Model S battery pack also has internal firewalls between the 16 modules and a firewall between the battery pack and passenger compartment. This effectively limits the fire energy to a few percent that of a gasoline car and is the reason why Dr. Shibayama was able to retrieve his pens and papers from the glove compartment completely untouched after the recent fire (caused by a high speed impact with a tow hitch). It is also why arsonists tend to favor gasoline. Trying to set the side of a building on fire with a battery pack is far less effective. What About Safety Overall? Our primary concern is not for the safety of the vehicle, which can easily be replaced, but for the safety of our customers and the families they entrust to our cars. Based on the Model S track record so far, you have a zero percent chance of being hurt in an accident resulting in a battery fire, but what about other types of accidents? Despite multiple high-speed accidents, there have been no deaths or serious injuries in a Model S of any kind ever. Of course, at some point, the law of large numbers dictates that this, too, will change, but the record is long enough already for us to be extremely proud of this achievement. This is why the Model S achieved the lowest probability of injury of any car ever tested by the US government. The probability of injury is the most accurate statistical figure of merit, showing clearly that the Model S is safer in an accident than any other vehicle without exception. It is literally impossible for another car to have a better safety track record, as it would have to possess mystical powers of healing. Further Actions While we believe the evidence is clear that there is no safer car on the road than the Model S, we are taking three specific actions. First, we have rolled out an over-the-air update to the air suspension that will result in greater ground clearance at highway speeds. To be clear, this is about reducing the chances of underbody impact damage, not improving safety. The theoretical probability of a fire injury is already vanishingly small and the actual number to date is zero. Another software update expected in January will give the driver direct control of the air suspension ride height transitions. Second, we have requested that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration conduct a full investigation as soon as possible into the fire incidents. While we think it is highly unlikely, if something is discovered that would result in a material improvement in occupant fire safety, we will immediately apply that change to new cars and offer it as a free retrofit to all existing cars. Given that the incidence of fires in the Model S is far lower than combustion cars and that there have been no resulting injuries, this did not at first seem like a good use of NHTSA’s time compared to the hundreds of gasoline fire deaths per year that warrant their attention. However, there is a larger issue at stake: if a false perception about the safety of electric cars is allowed to linger, it will delay the advent of sustainable transport and increase the risk of global climate change, with potentially disastrous consequences worldwide. That cannot be allowed to happen. Third, to reinforce how strongly we feel about the low risk of fire in our cars, we will be amending our warranty policy to cover damage due to a fire, even if due to driver error. Unless a Model S owner actively tries to destroy the car, they are covered. Our goal here is to eliminate any concern about the cost of such an event and ensure that over time the Model S has the lowest insurance cost of any car at our price point. Either our belief in the safety of our car is correct and this is a minor cost or we are wrong, in which case the right thing is for Tesla to bear the cost rather than the car buyer. All of these actions are taken in order to make clear the confidence we have in our product and to eliminate any misperceptions regarding the integrity of our technology and the safety of our cars.

Morgan StanleyLast week, China announced that it would begin to scale back its decade old one-child policy. A higher birth rate would certainly help China's demographic crisis, which includes a shortage of workers and a skew toward male children. But a retraction of the one-child policy doesn't just open the floodgates for Chinese babies. Morgan Stanley analysts led by Angela Moh recently survey 1,453 Chinese consumers to gauge their willingness to have another child should the reform take hold. Only 24% said they would be willing to have another child. "In our base case scenario, we expect 8-11% incremental newborns per year in 2015-2020 from the policy relaxation allowing Chinese parents to have a second child if either of them is the only child," wrote Moh. This translates to 1.3mn to 1.7mn additional newborns. "Incremental population and wealth effect could boost overall consumption in the longer run."
Last night Bitcoin was over $900. The latest? $540. Clarkmoody
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstTelevision news personality Maria BartiromoGood morning! Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartYesterday afternoon, the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee convened to discuss virtual currencies and the potential risks and value that they can add to both the US and international economies. Chairman Tom Carper (D-DE) was the only congressmen to attend the hearing while seven witnesses testified, including law enforcement personnel and members of the Bitcoin community. \Despite significant worries that virtual currencies offer a fertile ground for criminals to anonymously conduct illicit activities, all the witnesses agreed that regulatory agencies are well prepared for the task. "I feel confident that we have the tools that we need to address these threats and I feel confident that we have the will to address those threats, but we need to keep pace with what is going to come," Mythili Raman, the Acting Assistant AG in the Criminal Division of the Justice Department, said.  A month ago, the Justice Department took down the Silk Road, a large online marketplace of illegal drugs whose transactions were conducted with Bitcoins, and arrested its alleged creator Ross Ulbricht. Yet, soon after, a new Silk Road popped up online and is currently active. Despite this setback, Raman asserted that it was important for the DOJ to take down the initial site as a signal to the criminal community that the anonymity of Bitcoin is not foolproof. Since Bitcoin is a decentralized currency, there is no company in charge of it. However Patrick Murck, general counsel for the Bitcoin Foundation, testified as the representative of the bitcoin community. He agreed with much of what Raman and other law enforcement personnel said and was happy to hear that they saw the potential benefits of virtual currencies as well. "I was expecting a good positive response from the law enforcement community ," Murck said. "It was just very heartening to hear it spoken aloud and acknowledged that there are really positive legitimate uses for the currency and that they have the tools in place to interdict illicit activity and keep the bad actors out of the system." Just yesterday, Andy Greenberg at Forbes reported on the newest - and possibly scariest - use of Bitcoins: crowdfunding murder. "The Assassination Market" as it is known allows user to anonymously pledge money in the form of Bitcoins as a bounty towards the killing of major political actors and has a system in place so that the would-be killer can prove himself and receive the reward. "When I say that Bitcoin is an experimental system right now, criminals are experimenting too," Murck said of the market. "I think what they'll find as they do very provocative things like that they might be in for a rude surprise down the road, because it seems like law enforcement has the ability to catch up to them." This was the overwhelming theme of the hearing. All the witnesses understood the potential for virtual currencies such as Bitcoins to attract criminals, but all had confidence that law enforcement had the ability and tools to prevent that from happening. "We will remain vigilant. We intend to be as aggressive in the years to come as we have  in the last several years," Raman said in her closing statement. "Virtual currencies didn't just sneak up on us...We assume that these kind of threats will continue to emerge and change and evolve and we intend to keep pace."
Best Buy's Q3 earnings came in at $0.18 per share, which was stronger than the $0.12 expected by analysts. Revenue came in line with expectations at $9.36 billion. However, comparable store sales were light, climbing just 0.3% during the quarter versus expectations for 0.7% growth. "First and foremost, we are committed to being competitive on price," said Best Buy CFO Sharon McCollam. "[I]t is table stakes in our transformation. So if our competition is in fact more promotional in the fourth quarter, we will be too and that will have a negative impact on our gross margin. " "[A]s a result of the additional holiday pressures we just discussed, we believe it is prudent to narrow this range for the fourth quarter to 60 to 70 basis points (made up of an estimated 80 to 90 basis point negative impact on gross margin and an estimated positive 10 to 20 basis point impact on SG&amp;A)," she added.
DETROIT (AP) — The U.S. government's auto safety watchdog has opened an investigation into battery fires in Tesla Model S electric cars. The National Highway Traffic Administration says fires broke out in two of the cars in the U.S. after the undercarriage hit metal road debris. The debris pierced the batteries and caused a thermal reaction and fires. In each case, the car warned the driver of the damage, and both escaped without getting hurt. The probe affects more than 13,000 cars from the 2013 model year that were sold in the U.S. Tesla has sold about 19,000 of the cars worldwide. They start at $70,000 but often run more than $100,000. Tesla's batteries are located beneath the passenger compartment and protected by a quarter-inch-thick metal shield. Experts say that if the batteries are damaged, that can cause arcing and sparks and touch off a fire. NHTSA, in documents posted on its website Tuesday, said it opened the preliminary evaluation "to examine the potential risks associated with undercarriage strikes" on the Tesla cars. The investigation could lead to a recall, but a decision likely is months away. Tesla CEO Elon Musk said in a blog posting that the company asked the government to investigate, even though its cars catch fire at a far lower rate than gas-powered vehicles. "While we think it is highly unlikely, if something is discovered that would result in a material improvement in occupant fire safety, we will immediately apply that change to new cars and offer it as a free retrofit to all existing cars," Musk wrote. He also wrote that Tesla has done an over-the-air software update to give the car more ground clearance at highway speeds. Musk wrote that the software change was made to cut the chances of underbody damage. "The theoretical probability of a fire injury is already vanishingly small, and the actual number to date is zero," he wrote. Tesla plans another software update in January to give the driver more control of the air suspension ride height. The low-slung Model S has a 6-inch clearance between the ground and the undercarriage. Other cars with gas engines sit lower, such as the Mercedes CLA Class at 3.9 inches and a Dodge Charger at 5 inches, according to the Edmunds.com auto website. But the Tesla automatically lowers itself about another inch at highway speeds, the company's website said. According to the U.S. Fire Administration, there are around 194,000 vehicle fires on U.S. roads each year. The vast majority — 61 percent — start in the engine area, while 15 percent start in the passenger area. Approximately 300 people die and 1,250 are injured in U.S. vehicle fires each year. Most happen in gas-powered cars, which make up the vast majority of cars on U.S. roads. Electric vehicles make up less than 1 percent of the cars sold in the U.S. General Motors and Nissan make the top-selling battery-powered cars in the nation, the Volt and Leaf. Neither knows of any real-world blazes in those vehicles. A Chevrolet Volt caught fire two years ago after a government crash test, but the government closed an investigation into the incident after GM agreed to a safety campaign to bolster shielding around the battery. The Model S can go up to 265 miles (425 kilometers) on a single charge. Musk wrote that at first, a NHTSA investigation didn't seem like a good use of the agency's time given the higher frequency of gasoline-powered car fires. But he changed his mind. "If a false perception about the safety of electric cars is allowed to linger, it will delay the advent of sustainable transport and increase the risk of global climate change, with potentially disastrous consequences worldwide. That cannot be allowed to happen," Musk wrote. He has said previously that the car won't be recalled. Palo Alto, Calif.-based Tesla's stock rose more than 400 percent earlier in the year as the Model S won accolades from Consumer Reports and other magazines. But it has fallen 37 percent since news of the first fire was reported on Oct. 2. Its shares fell almost 4 percent, or $4.38, to $117.20 in premarket trading Tuesday. The first U.S. fire occurred along a freeway in Kent, Wash., near Seattle when a Model S struck a curved metal object which pierced the shield and the battery. In the second case, a Model S caught fire Nov. 6 near Smyrna, Tenn., after the driver struck a trailer hitch in the road. Another fire was reported Oct. 17 in Mexico when a Model S burned after a high-speed crash. ___ National Highway Traffic Administration report: http://www-odi.nhtsa.dot.gov/acms/cs/jaxrs/download/doc/UCM446471/INOA-PE13037-1867.PDF Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Flickr/aprilandrandyWalmart employees?Yesterday, it was revealed that employees at a Cleveland Wal-Mart are holding a holiday food drive for other Wal-Mart employees. This situation says everything about what's wrong with the U.S. economy right now. Wal-Mart is one of the richest companies in the world. Wal-Mart has a market value of $260 billion and made $17 billion in profit last year. But Wal-Mart does not pay its employees enough to buy food for the holidays. America's corporations and investors have never had it better. The stock market is setting new highs, and corporate profits and profit margins are higher than they have ever been. Average Americans, meanwhile, have rarely had it worse. Wages as a percent of the economy are at an all-time low, and fewer people are working as a percent of the population than at any time in the past 30 years. In addition to violating just about every conceivable ideal of community fairness and decency, this state of affairs is hurting the economy. Average Americans account for most of the spending in the country. And thanks to the refusal of rich companies like Wal-Mart to share more of their wealth with the people who create it, average Americans are broke. When people are broke, they can't buy things. When people can't buy things, companies can't grow. And when companies can't grow, they cut costs (fire more people). And, in so doing, they make more people broke. In the past 30 years, American business has become ever-more obsessed with "shareholder value," a concept that unfortunately has come to be defined as short-term profit maximization. And as a result, America's corporations have lost sight of the other kinds of value that great companies can create. Great companies do not simply "maximize profits," as so many of America's companies are now doing. Rather, great companies create valuefor all three of their major constituencies: customers, shareholders, and employees. It's time companies like Wal-Mart began doing that, instead of "maximizing profits" and treating the people who produce those profits like costs to be minimized. In a healthy economy at healthy companies, customers should get good products and prices, shareholders should get a good return, and employees should earn a good living. But, right now in America, customers are getting good products and prices, shareholders are getting absolutely fantastic returns, and employees are getting screwed. That's not just greedy and unfair, it's also hurting the economy. Let's go to the charts ... 1) Corporate profit margins are at an all-time high. Companies are making more per dollar of sales than they ever have before. (And some people are still saying that companies are suffering from "too much regulation" and "too many taxes." Maybe little companies are, but big ones certainly aren't. What they're suffering from is a myopic obsession with short-term profits at the expense of long-term value creation). Business Insider, St. Louis Fed 2) Wages as a percent of the economy are at an all-time low. Why are corporate profits so high? One reason is that companies are paying employees less than they ever have as a share of GDP. And that, in turn, is one reason the economy is so weak: Those "wages" represent spending power for consumers. And consumer spending is "revenue" for other companies. So the profit obsession is actually starving the rest of the economy of revenue growth. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed 3) Fewer Americans are working than at any time in the past three decades.The other reason corporations are so profitable is that they don't employ as many Americans as they used to. As a result, the employment-to-population ratio has collapsed. We're back at 1980s levels now. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed In short, our current "profit maximization"philosophy is creating a country of a few million overlords and 300+ million serfs. That's not what has made America a great country. It's also not what most people think America is supposed to be about. So we might want to rethink that. Specifically, we might want the goal of our corporations be to create long-term value for all of their constituencies (customers, employees, and shareholders), not just short-term profit for their shareholders. Meanwhile, if you want to know more about what's wrong with the economy, and why our current obsession withshort-term-profitis hurting all of us, flip through these charts:
REUTERS/ Chip EastHedge fund titan Carl Icahn(Reuters) - Activist investorCarl Icahnon Monday said there was a chance the stock market could suffer a big decline, saying valuations are rich and earnings at many companies are fueled more by low borrowing costs than management's efforts to boost results. Unnerved by Icahn's prognosis, investors pushed stocks lower. The S&amp;P 500, which was trading near unchanged before Icahn spoke, closed down 0.4 percent. "I am very cautious on equities today. This market could easily have a big drop," Icahn said. He said share buybacks are driving results, not profitability. "Very simplistically put, a lot of the earnings are a mirage," Icahn told the Reuters Global Investment Outlook Summit. "They are not coming because the companies are well run but because of low interest rates." He also hinted at his ongoing plan for Apple Inc, the most valuable U.S. company by market value, saying he does not want to fight with management at theiPhonegiant but has no plans to walk away from his investment. Shares of Apple closed down 1.2 percent at $518.92; they were trading at $523.11 before Icahn's remarks. Icahn said he still thinks Apple's stock price is undervalued and said the company's CEO, Tim Cook, feels the same way. Icahn, who runsIcahn Enterprises, a diversified holding company, is urging Apple to buy back $150 billion worth of shares. The company has not committed to that. Icahn owns approximately 0.4 percent of Apple's outstanding shares, according to Thomson Reuters data. Icahn said that he and Cook are friendly, but he still spoke critically. "Apple is not a bank and it should not be run like a bank because investors did not invest in a bank," he said. "Apple has all this money, they should be using it." Known for decades of strong-arm tactics, including proxy fights, Icahn was diplomatically vague about exactly how he planned to proceed in his efforts with Apple. He did joke that if Reuters reporters had joined him for a cocktail, he might have said more. The 77-year-old investor's views on markets and individual companies are widely followed in light of the strong returns he has generated. Icahn said that in the last five years, investors who bought shares of companies in which his firm took seats on the board of directors and held the shares as long as an Icahn representative stayed on those boards would have earned 28 percent on an annualized basis. Icahn is known as one of the market's most powerful activist investors. But he said he and his colleagues do not want to micro-manage corporations. He prefers to speak with top management and "set up parameters" for performance, such as return on equity or performance against competitors. "Boards should be keeping the CEO accountable," Icahn said, adding, "that's what a board should do." Activism has become a hot-button topic in the hedge fund industry this year, in part because returns at activist funds are roughly 14 percent, nearly twice as strong as gains at the average hedge fund. While he pointed to a handful of managers who practice activism well, Icahn took a swipe against William Ackman, whosePershing Square Capital Managementis one of the industry's biggest activist managers, with average annual returns of 20 percent over the last decade. "What we don't do is exactly what Ackman does do. We may have an idea, but we never push it," Icahn said. Ackman and Icahn have engaged in a very public battle on their opposing views of Herbalife, the nutrition and supplements company. Ackman took a large short position in Herbalife, while Icahn bet the company's share price will rise, which in fact it has. Ackman also made waves in his aggressive push to overhaul retailer J.C. Penney, but finally sold his 18 percent stake in the company earlier this year, losing hundreds of millions of dollars, after his campaign failed. But Icahn sang the praises of other activists, including Keith Meister, his one-time lieutenant who now managesCorvex Capital.Jeff Ubben's ValueAct, which was instrumental in forcing change at Microsoft, also got high marks, as did Daniel Loeb, whose Third Point, won big at Yahoo where he helped install Marissa Mayer as CEO last year. Icahn said he had looked at investing in Microsoft but did not, declining to give a reason. (Additional reporting by David Gaffen; Editing by Dan Grebler and Leslie Adler)
Good morning! Bitcoin just fell out of bed. It was over $900 at one point yesterday. Now it's plunged decisively below $700. From ClarkMoody.com: ClarkMoody.com
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozPeople walk inside JP Morgan headquarters in New York, October 25, 2013. NEW YORK (Reuters) - As the United States threatened to default on its debt last month, major U.S. banks set up war rooms, spent many millions of dollars on contingency planning and, in some cases, even prepared to underwrite federal government benefits. In a series of interviews with top bank executives, new details emerged about the extent of the contingency planning that was undertaken before and during the 16-day government shutdown and as a potential default loomed. The planning for worst-case scenarios didn't come cheap. JPMorgan alone has spent more than $100 million on contingency planning for U.S. budget crises in recent years including this one, sources close to the bank say. It has reviewed and analyzed thousands of trading contracts, updated computer systems to handle fiscal emergencies, hired consultants, and built new models to figure out what might happen to securities prices. It may not go to waste. The temporary budget agreement that President Barack Obama signed shortly after midnight on October 17 to end the shutdown and lift the default threat, authorizes government spending through January 15 and eases enforcement of the debt limit until February 7, creating the potential for another budget crisis early next year, even as some Republicans vow they will avoid it. With each crisis, the once-unthinkable scenario of a U.S. default becomes a little more real, bank executives said. "You could tell in the market that people were getting prepared much more this time for a potential default than last time," said a person involved with contingency planning at a major U.S. bank. "The threat moved the market, and people were preparing, whereas the first time there was little movement because most people didn't think it would happen." The latest budget dust-up was the third in two years. In August 2011, fiscal battles led to the downgrade of the U.S. credit rating by Standard &amp; Poor's, and then 16 months later, the discord resulted in across-the-board budget cuts at federal agencies known as "sequestration." In October, officials at JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co asked Chief Executive Jamie Dimon how to handle the government benefits that many of its customers receive monthly. Some of the bank's retail customers depend on government programs like Social Security and food stamps to pay their bills, and Dimon decided the bank would pay the benefits out of its own pocket if it had to. "We're going to fund them," he said, according to a person at the meeting. "It is the right thing to do." Staff in the legal, finance and risk departments, were reluctant, and although they had to listen to Dimon, they found potential hurdles. The bank would have had to have paid an estimated $5 billion of cash every month, and it was not clear how the money could be legally recouped. JPMorgan's legal staff determined that, by law, customers' Social Security checks cannot be used as collateral for short-term loans. It was also unclear how regulators would assess the riskiness of the loans it was making. Other banks gave their customers concessions because of the crisis in Washington. Wells Fargo, for example, waived late fees for those who were tardy with their mortgage payments in October. The biggest question was how markets would have reacted to a default, bank executives said. It was entirely possible that panic could have spread across multiple assets, creating conditions as treacherous as in September 2008 when the collapse of Lehman Brothers touched off the worst of the financial crisis and the deepest recession since the Great Depression, Wall Street executives said. However meticulous the planning, a panic is almost impossible to guard against, top bankers said. And even if there is no default, the threat of one is bad news for Treasury debt. U.S. government bills, notes, and bonds are seen as assets without credit risk that form the basis for pricing securities globally, and every time a default looms, that status is threatened, said an executive at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Executives said that preparing for a default was difficult, because there were so many unknowns. No one was sure what the value of defaulted bonds would be if the government really had failed to make payments. Those questions could have hurt trading in multiple markets, which in turn raised questions about how the Federal Reserve might intervene. Bankers characterized their conversations with the Fed as "one-sided," with many of their questions remaining unanswered. The central bank apparently did not want to give traders in financial markets the impression that everything would be fine if the debt limit were not raised. But banks still spent a lot of time considering the Fed's options. The central bank, for example, could have directed its quantitative easing bond purchases toward buying more Treasuries, or defaulted Treasuries. It could have provided financing for defaulted Treasuries through participating in the repo markets. A spokesman for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York declined to comment. When Lehman failed, commercial paper markets seized up, and the government had to guarantee it. Without that intervention, corporations could have been starved for cash and unable to pay employees. If the central bank was concerned about similar market issues in this fiscal crisis, it could have bought short-term debt known as "commercial paper" from companies. The Federal Reserve looked closely in the runup to this October's default threat at the "repurchase market," or "repo markets," where investors can finance their Treasuries. Goldman's operations staff spent hours on the phone with clients whose Treasury collateral would mature in late October and early November, asking whether they wanted to try to sell these securities, or trade them for newly issued Treasuries. At Morgan Stanley, daily calls were held among Treasury-bond traders, those handling repurchase agreements and operations staff. At JPMorgan, senior executives and relevant personnel met every day to figure out how the bank would deal with possible issues that could arise, said people close to the bank. The problems associated with defaulted debt extended beyond market turmoil, into the plumbing of markets, an area banks focused on. "We've figured out what to do with systems on defaulted securities, what would happen with impaired securities, and how the market would clear, settle, and finance those assets," said one executive at Morgan Stanley involved with the planning process. He added that this planning would reduce the operational and market problems that would arise from delayed Treasury payments, but would not eliminate them. Much of the work involving market protocols was orchestrated by the U.S. Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, a trade group. SIFMA's presumption was that any Treasury due to mature would have its maturity extended one day at a time. Extending maturities creates a complication for banks' bond payment systems, which run nightly and determine which bond issuers will pay interest on securities the bank owns the next day, said the Morgan Stanley executive. If the government defaulted, a security due to mature would have to be removed from the broader system and handled manually. If the crisis had worn on and there were 300 or 400 defaulted securities, managing them manually could have been cumbersome, the person said. On the consumer side, JPMorgan also looked at how to handle credit card payments due from government employees. The bank was inclined to forbear on these obligations, but had to change its systems to ensure they would not automatically report delayed payments to credit agencies. It was also ready to add extra cash to its automated teller machines in case panicky consumers tried to take out as much money as they could get their hands on. (Reporting by David Henry and Lauren Tara LaCapra; Editing by Dan Wilchins, Martin Howell, and Tim Dobbyn)
The Organization For Economic Cooperation And Development just cut its global growth forecast. From Bloomberg: The world economy will probably expand 2.7 percent this year and 3.6 percent next year, instead of the 3.6 percent and and 5.8 percent predicted in May, the Paris-based OECD said in a semi-annual report today. Most of the emerging economies have underlying fragilities that mean they cannot continue growing as they used to, OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said in an interview. They used to be an important support engine for global growth in bad times. Now the reverse is true and advanced economies cant be said to be in very good times again. Here's the key slide from the OECD showing the new projections: OECD
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidThe Nasdaq Market site in New York's Times Square.Markets dropped a bit yesterday. And they're lower again today. Something to watch is that yesterday some of the big momentum tech stocks really got hammered. Tesla fell another 10%, and is now down 37% from its recent highs. Facebook fell 6.49%. Netflix lost 2.28%. LinkedIn lost 3.89%. Anyway, these are just a few stocks to take note of. Will be worth watching the direction of these market darlings.
Feelgood 1946 Christmas classic It's a Wonderful Life is to get an unlikely sequel more than 60 years on, it has been revealed. It's a Wonderful Life: The Rest of the Story is being billed as a continuation of the story of downcast bank manager George Bailey, played memorably by the late great James Stewart in Frank Capra's original. Or at least, that of his descendants. While Stewart passed away in 1997, producers have recruited original cast member Karolyn Grimes, who played George Bailey's daughter Zuzu, to return. It's a Wonderful Life follows Bailey as he sets out to kill himself on Christmas Eve but changes his mind thanks to the intervention of a guardian angel who helps him realise he has made a difference in the world. The sequel, which riffs on Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol, will centre on Bailey's mean grandson. In a not-so-feelgood twist, it reportedly sees him visited by his aunt Zuzu, now an angel, who shows him how much better off the world would have been had he never been born. The new film is being put together by Allen J Schwalb, whose Florida-based Star Partners firm financed Rain Man and The Color Purple during the 1980s. He will work with Bob Farnsworth of Nashville-based commercial music specialists Hummingbird Productions on the project. The latter co-wrote the screenplay for the followup after discovering that Capra's film was out of copyright in the US. "It's a Wonderful Life is about showing a good guy can win. And with Scrooge, you have a person that is not a good guy but he changes," Farnsworth told The Hollywood Reporter. "This story is about the amazing human capacity to forgive when we see someone change for the better." Of suggestions that audiences may balk at seeing one festive favourite - let alone two - revived in unfamiliar form, the screenwriter said: "Look, no one can make another It's a Wonderful Life. But our story is solid, and we are going in with our eyes open. There is no doubt about it, there will be a ruckus. But I have this motto: All it takes to be a leader is to have a cause you believe in. And the stronger you believe in the cause, the more adversaries you will have. And we strongly believe in this." Farnsworth received help on the screenplay from Martha Bolton, who worked with Bob Hope as a staff writer on the comedian's specials. Producers are currently on the hunt for a director and plan to secure a budget in the $25-32m range. They hope to bring the sequel to the big screen in 2015. Capra's It's A Wonderful Life regularly tops polls of favourite Christmas movies on both sides of the Atlantic.  It's a Wonderful Life tops favourite Christmas film poll Top 10 family movies  What should be the plot of the sequel? Submit your ideas  even a script sample  below, along with any casting suggestions This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
It’s been virtually impossible to avoid discussions about Bitcoin in recent days as the electronic currency soars from $150 to over $900 in recent weeks.   The parabolic surge is breathtaking to say the least. But what I find more interesting about Bitcoin is that its huge rise is occurring at the same time that gold continues to move lower.  Gold is now down 23%+ this year as Bitcoin has jumped from $14 to $900 (you do the math on that!). Of course, Bitcoin and gold are both considered alternative forms of money to fiat money.  But there’s a big difference between gold and Bitcoins, in my opinion.  Gold is a very poor medium of exchange because of its physical properties.  This makes it a rather poor form of money, especially in a fast paced electronic economic system.  But Bitcoin is different.  Bitcoin has the potential to be every bit as good a medium of exchange as any other electronic form of money.  It just needs to start getting accepted as a form of final payment by more and more merchants. So the interesting thing about this rally in Bitcoin is not that Bitcoin is rallying, but that it’s occurring at a time when gold is collapsing.  I can’t help but wonder if this is a sign of the anti-fiat money crowd voting with their wallets on the potential that gold really isn’t a viable form of future money while something like Bitcoin might just be….
Ronald Martinez / Getty Images You remember the famous "Chicago Guys" jobs report, right? That was in September 2012, shortly before the 2012 Presidential election, when the unemployment rate surprisingly dropped from 8.1% to 7.8%, prompting former GE CEO Jack Welch to hint on Twitter that the number was the product of manipulation by The White House. Now people are talking about that again. John Crudele at the New York Post has a report titled "Census faked 2012 election jobs report." The allegation is interesting. It claims that surveyors conducting the Household Survey  which is what establishes the unemployment rate  were pressured to fake surveys in order to fill in data gaps, when it was difficult to get adequate response rates on its surveys. It also claims that instances of bad data being filled in is something that was going on back in 2010  in other words, this is not a story about the infamous September 2012 jobs report. There's also no allegation here that there was pressure to manipulate the number up. The only claim is that there was pressure to fill in gaps where there was a shortfall in the number of survey respondents. There may be more information to come to light on this, but at least this particular report doesn't jibe with Welch's claim that something unusual happened with the September report to artificially push the number down. Here's Crudele: The Census employee caught faking the results is Julius Buckmon, according to confidential Census documents obtained by The Post. Buckmon told me in an interview this past weekend that he was told to make up information by higher-ups at Census. Ironically, it was Labors demanding standards that left the door open to manipulation. Labor requires Census to achieve a 90 percent success rate on its interviews  meaning it needed to reach 9 out of 10 households targeted and report back on their jobs status. ... By making up survey results  and, essentially, creating people out of thin air and giving them jobs  Buckmons actions could have lowered the jobless rate. Buckmon said he filled out surveys for people he couldnt reach by phone or who didnt answer their doors. But, Buckmon says, he was never told how to answer the questions about whether these nonexistent people were employed or not, looking for work, or have given up. Read the whole thing. We're looking forward to hearing more from the Census department.
nicoboxethai/FlickrIt's mostly red on the scoreboard today, although the damage is not particularly severe. Hong Kong and Shanghai had tiny losses following big gains on Monday on the back of the reform announcements.  Japan lost 0.25%. In Europe, Italy is down 0.8% and German shares are lower by 0.33%. US futures are down modestly. The US economic calendar is quiet again today.
