REUTERS/StringerHouses, which have been built atop a furniture shopping mall, are pictured in Hengyang, Hunan province, July 30, 2013. According to local media, the 25 houses built without permission from the government are now being used as dormitories for employees of the shopping mall but are not allowed for sale.BEIJING (Reuters) - China's monthly property inflation moderated for a fourth straight month in July, although annual gains were the strongest this year, complicating policymakers' task of trying to cool the sector without stifling growth elsewhere. Real estate, which directly affects about 40 other business sectors in China, is considered to be one of the crucial drivers of activity in the world's second-largest economy. Signs of a gathering recovery in the property market coincide with other July data that suggested China may be steadying after more than two years of slumping growth. Average new home prices in 70 major Chinese cities climbed 0.7 percent in July on the month, easing from June's rise of 0.8 percent, according to Reuters calculations from data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Sunday. Compared with a year ago, new home prices rose 7.5 percent in July, the seventh consecutive rise and the biggest jump since the Reuters calculation started in January 2011. "The July home prices in 70 major cities are still rising due to strong demand from first-time home buyers and recent rising land prices," Liu Jianwei, a senior statistician at NBS, said in a statement accompanying the data. Despite having enforced strict controls on the property market for nearly four years, China still faces record home prices that are well beyond the reach of most ordinary citizens. Home prices rose month-on-month in 62 of 70 cities monitored by the NBS in July, down from 63 in June, the NBS data showed. New home prices in Beijing rose 14.1 percent in July from a year earlier, the fastest this year, compared with June's year-on-year increase of 12.9 percent. Shanghai's prices were up 13.7 percent in July from a year ago, also the fastest this year, versus 11.9 percent annual growth in June. POLICY FINETUNING? China's failure to check house prices is partly due to controls clashing with the need of local governments for a buoyant property market where they can sell land to raise revenues. Most cities have largely ignored a 20 percent capital gains tax on pre-owned home sales introduced by the central government in March. Only the capital city Beijing has implemented the tax. The latest policy shift comes from the eastern city of Wenzhou, which has relaxed curbs on property purchases to let some people buy second homes. But Wenzhou's property controls were always tougher than those of other Chinese cities, which barred only third-home purchases. So, its latest measure brings it in line with its peers, including Beijing and Shanghai. House prices in Wenzhou, the only city among 70 Chinese cities to see annual price falls, dropped 2.4 in July from a year ago, the NBS data showed. Analysts say Wenzhou's move does not signal an imminent easing in purchase curbs nationwide while investors increasingly bet China could soon loosen its near four-year-old property controls to shore up its economy. Plans to raise funds announced since July by five property firms, including Xinhu Zhongbao &lt;600208.SS&gt;, have not been carried out in the absence of approval from the securities regulator, which has kept its ban on new funding for developers. BRIGHT SPOT The property sector is a rare bright spot in China's slowing economy, which is grinding this year towards its slowest annual growth in 23 years. Heated property demand stems largely from a lack of investment options for domestic investors, with credit being pumped into real estate for quick returns, rather than into production, as exports and domestic demand slow. Official data on July 9 showed revenues from Chinese property sales rose 37.8 percent on the year in the first seven months, easing from a 43.2 percent rise in January-June, though it was still higher than last year's 10 percent gains. "In the coming months, we expect (property) sales growth to slow while new starts continue to recover at a modest pace to catch up with solid sales given the sentiment getting improved," UBS economist Tao Wang said in a note to clients before the data was released. "Property activities continue to be an important source of stable growth in domestic demand," Wang added. A July statement by the Chinese Communist Party's decision-making Politburo made no mention of a continuation of property controls, raising analysts' hopes that the government would avoid new real estate curbs, and perhaps even loosen up. China does not have an official index for nationwide home prices. Reuters started its weighted China home price index in January 2011 when the NBS stopped providing nationwide data, only giving home price changes in each of 70 major cities. (Reporting by Xiaoyi Shao and Benjamin Kang Lim; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
REUTERS/Toru HanaiEmployees work in the central control room of the No.5 reactor at Chubu Electric Power Co.'s Hamaoka Nuclear Power Station in Omaezaki, Shizuoka Prefecture, May 17, 2013.Japan's trade deficit nearly doubled last month as a weaker yen sent the country's energy import bill soaring, despite a brightening export picture, official data showed Monday. The finance ministry reported a bigger-than-expected deficit of 1.024 trillion yen ($10.5 billion) for July, from 528.55 billion yen in 2012. That was the 13th straight month of shortfalls in what is the longest deficit spell in more than three decades. The gap came even as the value of exports jumped 12.2 percent in July from a year earlier, powered by strong demand in the United States and China, as well as Europe. "The deficit was much bigger than expected because the weak yen sent costs of energy imports up and contributed to the larger deficit," said Hideki Matsumura, analyst with Japan Research Institute. "But the data showed that exports are on course to recovery thanks to the weaker yen and strong demand in the US market. "The deficit will likely shrink going forward as exports are expected to outpace imports due to the impact of the yen." A weaker yen boosts the value of exports denominated in foreign currencies when they're converted back to the Japanese currency, which impacts the profitability of exporters such as Toyota and Sony. The value of shipments to the key US market jumped 18.4 percent from a year earlier, while the data showed an upturn in exports to the troubled eurozone with a 16.6 percent on-year increase. Exports to China rose 9.5 percent, after a territorial dispute between Tokyo and Beijing that flared anew last year, hurting the Asian giants' trade ties. The yen has declined by about 20 percent against the dollar since late last year, boosting exporters' competitiveness overseas and inflating the value of their foreign-earned income. However, Japan's energy import bills have surged since Tokyo shut down the country's nuclear reactor following the crisis at Fukushima in March 2011, as it turned to price fossil fuel alternatives. Unusually hot summer temperatures likely contributed to pushing up demand for electricity, observers said. Monday's data comes a week after separate figures showed the world's third-largest economy slowed in the last quarter, raising questions about whether Tokyo would go ahead with sales tax hikes that some fear could derail its bid to stoke growth. The GDP figures painted a mixed picture of firming consumer consumption but little evidence that companies are confident enough to start spending big on new investment and hiring more workers. The state of Japan's economy is a key issue for the administration of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, which is mulling a series of sales tax hikes which could double the rate to 10 percent by 2015. They are seen as crucial for raising fresh revenue to chop Japan's eye-watering national debt -- proportionately the worst among industrialised nations -- but there are fears it could stall Tokyo's stimulus plan, dubbed "Abenomics". Last week, the Cabinet office said the economy expanded by weaker-than-expected 0.6 percent from the previous quarter. The pace of expansion also slowed on an annualised basis with a 2.6 percent increase, from a revised 3.8 percent jump in the first quarter. Annualised data show how the economy would grow if the quarterly performance was stretched across the full year. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
AP There was a weird story earlier this week where an economist accused Paul Krugman of copying his stuff. Paul Krugman has posted a response, saying that he had hardly ever read the work of the economist making the accusation. At the end Krugman ends with some great advice (via Matt O'Brien): What every economist, and for that matter every writer on any subject, needs to realize is that unless you are a powerful person and people are looking for clues about what youíll do next, nobody has to read what you write ó and lecturing them about what theyíre missing doesnít help. You have to provide the hook, the pitch, whatever you want to call it, that pulls them in. Itís part of the job. It's not enough to just be smart, or right, or even interesting. Unless you're already famous, getting people to read your writing involves salesmanship. This salesmanship obviously can take all kinds of forms: clear headlines, timeliness, social promotion (tweeting, etc.), powerful images to accompany the writing, and so forth. Human attention span is a finite resource, and every day you have to stake your claim to some slice of that resource if you want your writing to be read (if you're just writing for yourself, then obviously none of this applies). Krugman, funnily enough, counts as someone who people would feel compelled to read no matter what (you know, the Nobel Prize) yet he's tremendous at writing for clarity, in a timely manner, and at a regular enough clip so people are trained to come back. It's a great lesson for everyone to take to heart.
JonesTrading The Eurozone is leaving the recession, and European stocks have gotten the message. The above chart comes courtesy of Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading. It shows how in recent weeks, European stocks are clobbering their US counterparts. O'Rourke writes: There are a couple of interesting trends in equity markets worth highlighting.¬† The S&amp;P 500 is flat over the past 3 months, meanwhile the Nikkei is down 10%. More noteworthy is the rotation over the past month.¬† The S&amp;P 500 is down 2.14% while the Euro Stoxx 50 is up 5%. There are two key factors we believe are responsible for the market‚Äôs new found affinity for European equities.¬† First, there is the recent modest uptick in European economic data to less-recessionary levels.¬† The second and more important aspect is that Chairman Bernanke‚Äôs lame duck status and uncertainty about the composition of the FOMC next year means investors now view ECB President Mario Draghi as the Central Bank leader who has the dual traits of easy policy and stability. We know Japan has easy policy, but the way their markets and currency have moved stability remains questionable. We believe that the (very) gradually improving economy, in combination with stable and easy Central Bank policy, has prompted investors to dip their toe into European equities in hopes that the goldilocks environment of the past two years here in the US is replicated. Meanwhile, later this week we get Flash PMI data for Europe, giving us another look at the comeback in the Eurozone.
Reuters/Mike SegarGold¬† jumped 5% last week, booking its best week in over a month. This is a respectable move for an asset that many consider to be a worthless yellow metal. "It‚Äôs not so much that people don‚Äôt like gold anymore‚Äîit‚Äôs that they hate it," wrote strategist Dylan Grice in the July Edelweiss Journal. "Of course, this makes gold more interesting than it has been in many years. There is blood on the streets." Indeed, factors like a reversal of poor sentiment and upward pressure from short covering may be propelling a short-term rally. But longer-term forces like currency devaluation and high public debt levels remain favorable, argue the gold bulls. And you may think the gold bulls are unreasonable. But unfortunately that's irrelevant, at least in the short-run. People who you consider to be irrational have money and they buy and sell like everyone else in the markets. Frank Holmes, CEO and Chief Investment Officer of US Funds, recently gave a big presentation at the Agora Financial Investment Symposium in Vancouver.¬† His talk included a 71-page slide deck. We pulled the 50 key slides that support the gold bulls' undying investment case. 46 of those slides include charts making connections to money supply, emerging market demand, U.S. presidents, and many other things. All of them represent reasons why people are buying gold and driving prices up from their lows.
Bloomberg TV screengrabBefore they were the masters of the universe, many of the biggest names in finance worked jobs outside of Wall Street.¬† We're talking about things from bagging walnuts to selling peanuts to delivering newspapers and attending parking lots.¬† Some of these jobs were things they did as kids to earn some extra spending money, while others were to pay for college or make an actual living. We've compiled a list of thirteen big Wall Street names and detailed some of their earliest gigs.¬†
Lost Track Of TimeUsually during a dance marathon the dancers have to last all night and the DJs get a break. Not so at "Lost Track Of Time," a 25-hour DJ set and dance party going into its 17th hour in Mexico City right now. The two DJs on this no-sleep team are known as "The Pachanga Boys."†If you've never heard of them, just ask your nearest dance music addict or Berlin hostel regular. They'll tell you that when the duo's single "Time" hit dance floors in 2011, the entire world wanted a piece. This party experiment is trying to capture that energy in one long (potentially exhausting) stretch. Click here if you want in. The crowd dancing seems to be loving it. The word "pachanga," after all, is Spanish slang for a complete and total rager. Or if you need convincing, check out The Pachanga Boys' "Time" below to see what all the fuss is about: 
ReutersThe piling on re: Bill Ackman - I would bet - has now reached its pinnacle. If he was a stock, and I a deep value investor, I'd be buying him in size here. Okay, maybe I'd be buying calls instead of common, but still - the beleaguered Ackman is probably a bargain here. It's not that I agree with the way he's gone about meddling with JC Penney to the point of disaster or the flamboyant rollout of his short position in Herbalife (in which his publicly-stated aim was to destroy a company and redistribute the profits to charity). It's just that I believe Ackman to be a very smart investor and, more than that, a determined businessman. Removing himself from the board of JCP was the first sign that he is fully aware of his situation and the public perception. It may have set up his exit from the losing position or perhaps it was merely a cunningly non-linear route toward helping the stock price heal itself - the irony being that the most positive step he's taken as an activist in JC Penney's shares so far has been the removal of his own looming shadow. If Ackman is now ready to play offense with his $12 billion Pershing Square fund, now that all of his enemies are out of the shadows and their positions illuminated, we should probably start to expect the unexpected. In the meantime, two new reads this weekend to catch yourselves up: Jenn Ablan and Matthew Goldstein on how it all started, just before Christmas: How Ackman's Herbalife bet inflamed Wall Street passions (Reuters) Also, The Economist weighed in, noting that "things change quickly" in the hedge fund world and Ackman has had the last laugh before, during the MBIA saga for example: Hash of the Titan (The Economist)
ell brown via www.flickr.com What if ... everyone is growing at once? Since the financial crisis, the globe has been dealing with a series of rolling calamities or regional weakness. There's the ongoing weak recovery in the U.S., which has been punctuated by threats to shut down the government or default. There's been the massive crisis in Europe, and the attendant double dip. And there's been the constant drumbeat of "hard landing" talk in China. That drumbeat has gotten even louder lately. But at the moment there's an interesting possibility for global growth, which isn't being talked about much, namely the possibility that everyone could be improving all at once. This week, the signs became clear that the Eurozone is exiting recession. Recovery won't be pretty but at least things should stop getting worse for now. In the U.S., there's continued hope/optimism that things are actually returning to normal, and that the economy can reach escape velocity. This most recent jobs report aside, it appears the pace of job creation has quickened, and there's a decent degree of optimism for the second half of the year. And even in China, there's talk of a quick exit from the downturn. Over the last two weeks there have been some strong data points. Over the weekend there was some news about new stimulus and some fresh, strong real estate data. Everything is fragile. In the U.S. there's the upcoming Fed change/taper/budget fight/debt ceiling fight. Europe is Europe. And China could just be seeing an upward blip. But it seems that for the first time since the crisis there's a chance that everyone could actually get humming simultaneously. And that's a possibility seemingly being considered by nobody.
REUTERS/Pichi ChuangLawrence H. Summers, ex-Director of the White House's National Economic Council, gives a speech during a business forum "The United States, China, and Taiwan: Roles and Responsibility in a Global Economy" in Taipei on May 30, 2012. The big story in markets this past week was not on the equity side of things but in the interest rate realm. The yield on 30-year and 10-year US Treasuries hit new multi-year highs, continuing this year's theme of higher rates. Here, via Bloomberg, is a one-week look at the yield on the US 10-year bond. Bloomberg.com What's interesting is that the yield didn't seem to rise for all of the usual reasons (i.e. strong economic data leading to talk of "tapering" Fed asset purchases). Nomura's George Goncalves says the bond weakness has to do with angst surrounding the next Fed chair, and the possibility that Larry Summers will be appointed, and take the Fed in a more hawkish direction, meaning fewer asset purchases, and a faster move away from zero interest rates. Thin summer volumes, bull trap head-fake and slightly better data exposed UST market weakness; it's no longer just fear of tapering but also uncertainty regarding the next Fed Chair ... This past week the US rates market displayed unusual behavior as it didn't require much in order for bonds to get crushed. We wait anxiously for the FOMC minutes and other key Fed events ahead to gauge what lies ahead for USTs. The biggest risk to the bond market and our tactical bullish trades in our model portfolio is the combination of tapering fears and the election of a more hawkish Chairperson. In such a scenario we wouldn't be surprised that investors just sit on the sidelines and see how high rates can go if a hawkish Fed nominee is announced, with an overshoot meaningfully above 3% possible. At such extreme levels, we believe that stocks would be under even more pressure as bonds become competitive again and asset allocation adjustments eventually reverse the flows back into bonds. ... While our survey and many economists‚Äô and market participants‚Äô predications are that Yellen is still the favorite, there is real possibility about Summers as a real possibility. The risk is that the people who are calling for Yellen could be wishful thinking as market participants may be addicted to the easy money policies of the Fed. These market participants may not view Yellen as the non-disruptive change agent but instead as dove that is similar to (or in some ways even more dovish than) Bernanke. Some media outlets (most noticeably CNN) and online probability trading sites are predicting that Summers gets the nomination. In our survey, our hedge fund accounts are also expecting Larry to get the nod. The idea that Summers is "hawkish" compared to Yellen is probably an oversimplification of the differences between them, but that is the blunt way the two are perceived. And we can corroborate that there was tons of Summers talk this week, especially on Friday after reporter John Harwood said on Twitter that a good source of his placed the odds of Summers getting the nomination at 2/3. At least in the short term, it seems like this debate will be part of the interest rate equation.
‚ÄúThe Association of American Railroads (AAR) reported mixed weekly rail traffic for the week ending August 10, 2013, with total U.S. weekly carloads of 288,803 carloads, down 0.2 percent compared with the same week last year. Intermodal volume for the week totaled 257,969 units, up 6.1 percent compared with the same week last year. Total U.S. rail traffic for the week was 546,772 combined carloads and intermodal units, up 2.7 percent compared with the same week last year. Six of the 10 carload commodity groups posted increases compared with the same week in 2012, led by petroleum and petroleum products with 12,726 carloads, up 16.8 percent. Commodities showing a decrease compared with the same week last year included grain with 16,754 carloads, down 11.4 percent. For the first 32 weeks of 2013, U.S. railroads reported cumulative volume of 8,890,938 carloads, down 1.3 percent from the same point last year, and 7,747,032 intermodal units, up 3.5 percent from last year. Total U.S. traffic for the first 32 weeks of 2013 was 16,637,970 carloads and intermodal units, up 0.9 percent from last year.‚Äù Chart via Orcam Research: Pragmatic Capitalism
REUTERS/Jason LeeEmployees walk past the company logo at the JPMorgan Beijing office in Beijing.(Reuters) - U.S. authorities have opened an investigation into whether JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; hired the children of powerful Chinese officials to help it win business in China, according to the New York Times. Investment banks have a long history of employing the children of China's politically connected. While close ties to top government officials is a boon to any banking franchise across the world, it's especially beneficial in China, where relationships and personal connections play a critical role in business decisions. The approval process for a stock offering in China, for example, is one area that has come under criticism inside and outside the country for being opaque and prone to cronyism. For JPMorgan, the China hiring probe comes while the bank is under intense scrutiny following the $6 billion trading loss it suffered in the "London whale" derivatives scandal. Federal prosecutors on Wednesday brought criminal charges against two former JPMorgan traders - Javier Martin-Artajo and Julien Grout - accusing the pair of deliberately understating losses on the trades on the bank's books. A report posted in the Times' online Saturday edition cited a confidential U.S. government document as its source for the story on the China hiring probe. The Times said the probe is a civil investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission's anti-bribery unit. The Times said JPMorgan hired Tang Xiaoning, the son of Tang Shuangning, a former Chinese banking regulator. Tang Xiaoning is now the chairman of the China Everbright Group, a state-controlled financial conglomerate. After the son joined JPMorgan, the bank secured several important assignments from the Chinese conglomerate, including advising a subsidiary of the company on a stock offering, the Times reported. The Hong Kong office of JPMorgan also hired Zhang Xixi, the daughter of a now-disgraced Chinese railway official, and went on to help advise his company, which builds railways for the Chinese government, on its plans to become a public company, the Times said. A spokesmen for the SEC could not be reached immediately by Reuters for comment. Zhang and Tang both have left JPMorgan, the newspaper said. JPMorgan made reference in its 10-Q quarterly filing this month to the inquiry by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. "We publicly disclosed this matter in our 10-Q filing last week and are fully cooperating with regulators," Marie Cheung, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for the bank, said on Sunday. The practice of hiring politically-connected bankers in China was widespread in the early to mid 2000's, when Wall Street firms engaged in so-called 'elephant hunting', a term used to describe the chasing of mandates to manage the multi-billion dollar stock offerings of the country's big state-owned enterprises. One of the more well known China bankers from that era is Margaret Ren, the daughter-in-law of former Chinese Premier Zhao Ziyang, who has worked at several banks. Most major investment banks have employed a politically connected Chinese banker, whether a high level professional such as Ren or a college age associate, at some stage in the last decade. Many senior investment bankers in China now feel that the heyday for such underwriting contracts has passed, with far fewer jumbo state-owned company listings happening. But banks and private equity firms alike still prize connections to top decision makers. "It's been happening for the past 20 years," said Ronald Wan, Chair Professor of Renmin University of China and a former banker, referring to the hiring of politically connected Chinese bankers. The key to the JPMorgan probe, he said, was whether these hirings had any special bonus attached or any actual corruption that could be traced. Wan added that such hiring happens all across the world, though in China, connections to the right people who know the system is especially useful. Battushig Batbold, the son of Mongolia's Prime Minister, has been an employee of Morgan Stanley, the Wall Street Journal reported in 2011. JPMorgan said in its filing that it had received "a request from the SEC Division of Enforcement seeking information and documents relating to, among other matters, the firm's employment of certain former employees in Hong Kong and its business relationships with certain clients." The newspaper report stressed that the government document did not definitively link JPMorgan's hiring practices to its ability to win business. It also said there had been no suggestion that the employees hired by the bank were unqualified and said JPMorgan, although under investigation, had not been accused of any wrongdoing. (Reporting by Tom Brown, Ian Simpson, Lawrence White and Michael Flaherty; Editing by Bill Trott and Raju Gopalakrishnan)
In what may be an unprecedented outage, all of Google's services briefly went dark about 4:52 on Friday afternoon Pacific time.† The outage, which reportedly affected most of Google's services worldwide, led to a staggering 40% drop in global Internet traffic (pageviews), according to analytics firm GoSquared (via Eric Mack of CNET). GoSquared, CNET The official downtime was between 1 and 5 minutes, according to Google. One observer estimates that even this brief blip might have cost Google $500,000 in lost revenue. The impact on the rest of the digital economy was likely far greater. In case you needed a reminder how powerful Google has become--and how much of the digital economy depends on it--this would be it.† Although this level of dominance is alarming, other companies offer most if not all of the services Google provides. If the company ever had a prolonged outage, Internet activity would likely recover quickly as companies and users switched to other services. That said, the fact that one company touches this much of such a massive and important an industry is unsettling. Single points of failure and control concentrate power in the hands of a few. And they weaken the integrity of the entire system.
REUTERS/Jim YoungU.S. Chairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke listens to questions as he testifies before a House Budget Committee hearing on "The Near-Term Outlook for the U.S. Economy" on Capitol Hill in Washington, January 17, 2008.September is almost here. Right now, the Federal Reserve is buying $85 billion of bonds every month indefinitely ($45 billion of U.S. Treasuries and $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities) in an attempt to provide markets and the economy with monetary stimulus. If the Wall Street consensus proves correct, however, the Federal Reserve is slated to announce its first reduction in the pace of its bond buying program known as quantitative easing (QE3), which the central bank launched in September 2012, at its upcoming September 18-19 FOMC meeting. Given the heightened sensitivity of markets to this possibility ñ which is widely seen as contingent on improvement in the economic data ñ Deutsche Bank economist Joe LaVorgna says market participants should be ready for two key events this week:†the release of the minutes from the Federal Reserve's July FOMC meeting on Wednesday, and the release of the latest initial jobless claims data on Thursday. The July FOMC minutes will probably contain clues about whether or not the Fed is likely to go forward with tapering QE3 as soon as September, according to BofA Merrill Lynch economists. In a note to clients, BAML's U.S. economic team previews the release: The July minutes may give some insight into just how strong the conviction level at the Fed is for tapering in September. The July statement had few changes, but those were modestly cautious and dovish. The minutes are likely to sound more hawkish ñ recall that has been the case all year long, in part because they give a platform to more hawkish non-voters ñ which presents a risk that markets will again sell off on the minutes. We see the voting members largely split into two groups: those who emphasize the "cumulative progress" in the economy and thus favor tapering soon, even if the latest data disappoint slightly, and those who want to see "better momentum" and thus may prefer to wait. We recommend keeping a close eye out for discussions of what factors various members see as most important for the tapering decision ñ particularly interest rates, as the FOMC cited higher mortgage rates as a potential risk in their July statement. If the Fed is close to a September taper, then we would expect some discussion of operational details in the minutes, such as how much to taper and in which assets ñ MBS or Treasuries. Our base case is that the Fed will taper equally in both assets. Recent Fed commentary has proposed a token-sized first cut to the purchase pace. We expect some debate over all these issues but no resolution ñ the nature of the taper is likely to be a "game-day" decision, and there are many possible intermediate scenarios between no taper and current market expectations. Of particular interest will be any discussion of how they plan to†signal subsequent tapering moves. We doubt this would be through explicit economic thresholds on asset purchases, but will watch for discussion on this issue. We also would not be surprised to see some discussion about strengthening forward guidance on interest rates as well, but we see a small risk that they signal any planned changes in the minutes. We suspect that it is too soon to reduce the 6.5% guidance on the unemployment rate, and with the additional language in the recent statement about the risks of persistently low inflation, we don't expect a lower-bound inflation threshold. As always, we will also keep an eye out for other proposed communication innovations. The Fed will release the minutes from the July FOMC meeting on Wednesday at 2 PM ET.
REUTERS/Aly SongBEIJING (AP) ó A trading frenzy that caused Chinese stock prices to swing wildly last week was caused by a design flaw in a brokerage's computer, the market regulator said Sunday. The avalanche of orders Friday from Everbright Securities Ltd. caused China's main market index to surge nearly 6 percent in 3 minutes before it dropped back. It ended the day down 0.6 percent. The China Securities Regulatory Commission said its investigators concluded the buying frenzy was not the result of human error. It said Everbright's computer system had design flaws in systems that should limit orders and prices. A statement on the agency's website gave no indication whether Everbright might face penalties. Everbright's orders caused trading volume to spike up more than 50 percent above Thursday's level. Prices of major companies such as PetroChina Ltd. and state-owned banks surged by their maximum daily limit of 10 percent before falling back. Everbright's orders totaled 23.4 billion yuan ($3.7 billion), according to the CSRC. It said completed transactions were almost 7.3 billion yuan ($1.2 billion). The state-run China News Service said Friday that Everbright asked to cancel the trades. However, the Shanghai Stock Exchange said on its website that any transactions that already had been completed would be cleared normally. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
"Retail investors put money into almost all asset classes last week despite the backdrop of sharply rising yields. Bond funds, credit funds, loans, equities and money market funds all saw varying degrees of inflows. The last time inflows were so widespread in Europe was early Jan-13.¬†European credit funds continued to see inflows (7th straight week for [high yield]) even though retail investors pulled money out of U.S. credit funds over the last week with treasury yields rising. High-grade, govvie and money market funds in Europe also saw inflows, albeit smallish.¬†Equities were the bigger winner over the last week however. European equity funds saw their 7th straight week on inflows (matching Sep 2010‚Äôs streak) and the highest dollar inflow since May 2012. Note that the last time European equities notched up an 8wk string of inflows was January 2007!"‚ÄîBarnaby Martin, credit strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch
St. Louis FedInitial jobless claims 4-week average continues to make new post-recession lows.We're in the middle of the summer doldrums, and with so many investors on vacation, trading volume has been substantially lower than usual. With less market liquidity comes more pronounced market moves, and with a tapering of quantitative easing potentially right around the corner in September (it's now the consensus opinion on Wall Street), markets seem more sensitive to economic data releases than they have been in a long time. Against that backdrop, Deutsche Bank chief U.S. economist Joe LaVorgna says there are two key events for markets this week: the release of the minutes from the Federal Reserve's July FOMC meeting on Wednesday, and the release of the latest initial jobless claims data on Thursday. In a note to clients, LaVorgna writes: The data docket in the week ahead is light, but there are two main events worth noting: the minutes of the July FOMC meeting (Wednesday) and initial jobless claims for the August employment survey week (Thursday). At the time of the July Fed meeting we suggested the minutes could be more important than the actual meeting statement, because the former would shed greater insight regarding the breadth and degree of comfort among Committee members toward a September QE taper. Recent public comments from various policymakers suggest that even notable doves, such as Bullard, Lockhart and Evans, are comfortable with‚Äîbut not yet committed to‚Äîthe taper commencing at the September meeting. The lack of conviction for September largely stems from lingering uncertainty over the underlying health of the labor market and the broader economy. As such, the August employment report, which is released on September 6, is likely to be the defining event. Ahead of this, the trend in jobless claims will be closely scrutinized, given this series‚Äô prowess as a payroll forecasting tool.  Last week we learned that initial jobless claims for the first full week of August fell to 320k‚Äîthereby pulling the four-week moving average 4k lower to 332k. Both initial claims and the 4-week average are now at pre-recession levels, and are therefore consistent with a faster pace of payroll gains than what we have seen over the past three months (+175k). Since 1990, 320k on claims has been consistent with approximately +230k on payrolls, the level of the 4-week is consistent with +200k. We currently anticipate another decline in the unemployment rate in August to 7.3% and +190k on payrolls; but if claims continue to surprise to the low side, the risks to our forecast could shift toward stronger performance. To be sure, broader economic fundamentals are coalescing toward a profile which should be consistent with faster hiring‚Äî possibly not in time for the August employment report, but quite likely over the next few months. In particular, growth is poised to accelerate at the same time that productivity remains sluggish. LaVorgna expects the Fed to announce a reduction in the pace of the central bank's monthly bond purchases at the September 18-19 FOMC meeting.
Reuters/Mike Segar Gold prices have risen in seven of the last eight trading sessions. Since the brutal sell-off that gripped the gold market throughout much of the first half of 2013 came to an end at a price of $1179 an ounce on June 28, the metal has rallied 16.6% over the past month and a half to $1375 at Friday's close. Sterne Agee analysts Michael Dudas and Satyadeep Jain identify seven things driving recent gold price appreciation in a new report. "We believe improvement in Chinese economic activity, strong physical demand as evidenced by 54% year-on-year jump in Chinese gold purchases in [the first half of 2013], geopolitical tensions in Middle East, soft U.S. inflation data raising concerns regarding tapering, reversal of ETF outflows, physical market tightness, and short covering ‚Äì especially given record high short contracts on Comex ‚Äì have propelled gold and silver higher," say the analysts. Bloomberg, CFTC, Sterne AgeeGiven how many are still shorting gold, though, Dudas and Jain argue that further adjustments in positioning could fuel a continued rally. "We have witnessed strong correlation between net positions in gold &amp; silver at Comex and gold &amp; silver prices," they write. "Net reportable short contracts for gold have dropped somewhat from recent record highs, but still remain elevated. We believe any upside catalyst could lead to short squeeze on Comex and drive gold and silver prices higher." In a note Thursday, JPMorgan analysts John Bridges and Anant Inani recommended clients buy gold ahead of the annual Denver Gold Forum in late September. The analysts cited news that John Paulson dumped half of his gold holdings in the second quarter, along with the looming threat of labor strikes by South African gold miners, a bullish report from the World Gold Council on physical gold demand, and favorable seasonality in August and September as reasons to hold the metal over the next four to five weeks. BofA Merrill Lynch technical strategist MacNeil Curry has been bullish on gold, but warned clients in a note Friday to be careful. "While the bull trend remains intact, with swing targets seen to 1439, we are growing cautious, as the first upside target zone and POTENTIAL topping zone is approaching at 1399/1400," said Curry. "For now, the evidence for a top and turn is not present, but if it starts to materialize, BEWARE. Back below 1320 spells TROUBLE." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, CQG
