REUTERS/Soe Zeya TunJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe (L) and Myanmar's President Thein Sein toast during lunch at the Myanmar International Convention Centre in Naypyitaw May 26, 2013.On Wednesday, Japanese Prime Minister¬†Shinz≈ç Abe will unveil the much awaited "third arrow" of the experimental "Abenomics" program of economic stimulus that has captured the imagination of observers around the world. The success of this experiment depends in its entirety on the details and implementation of this third component of the Japanese stimulus package: actual structural reform. The first two "arrows" of Abenomics have already been launched and are fully in play. On the fiscal stimulus front, the government has increased expenditures on public works programs. On the monetary stimulus front, the Bank of Japan has launched a quantitative easing program unprecedented in size and scale. Of course, monetary and fiscal stimulus are designed to provide a short-term boost and, taken by themselves, will not be enough to lift Japan out of the economic malaise that has plagued the country for more than a decade. That's why the details of the structural reforms to be announced Wednesday in Japan are so important. The Japanese stock market had for months been one of the hottest equity markets in the world ‚Äì up until May 22, that is, when the market crashed 7.3% in a single day. Adding up losses from the subsequent sell-off, the Japanese Nikkei 225 is now 15% below its peak from just two weeks ago. And the Japanese yen, which weakened dramatically against the dollar as Japanese stocks rose, has halted its devaluation for now. (The Abe government wants the yen to continue weakening, hoping that it will induce higher exports to the world from Japanese companies, boosting profits and creating something of a virtuous cycle for financial markets and the economy.) As Nomura economist Richard Koo puts it, investors' "honeymoon" with the long Nikkei/short yen trade appears to be over. "I think the virtuous cycle for Abenomics in evidence since late last year is at a critical juncture," writes Koo in a note to clients today. "This means further gains in equities will require stronger corporate earnings and a recovery in the economy." Again, crucially, both the continuation of the rally in Japanese share prices and the success of Abenomics in stimulating economic growth in Japan hinges on the strength of the structural reforms that are the "third arrow." Here, Abenomics may prove to be fatally lacking. In a recent report, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Chief Economist Noboyuki Saji highlighted a major challenge facing the Japanese economy that really drives home why structural reform is the most important component of Abenomics: We think Japan lacks two things in particular. One is world-class products and services with high value-added and high price tags. The other is companies and individuals capable of driving economic growth. The US economy, in contrast, would appear to have both these things. First, it dominates the process of standardization in the field of information and communications technology (ICT). The US-based Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) plays a leading role in developing standards in this field and easily overshadows the United Nation‚Äôs International Telecommunication Union (ITU). US ICT firms gather at the IEEE, and rivals in other countries closely watch for new developments. The large US vendors seek to further advance global standardization by acquiring competitors. NTT set up an R&amp;D and information-gathering center in Silicon Valley this April called NTT I3 in response to this trend. Meanwhile, US income disparities are approaching all-time highs. An Abe government panel on industrial competitiveness discussed a sweeping range of topics at its ninth meeting on May 22, including healthcare, tourism, science and technology, the revitalization of Japan‚Äôs education system, and the ‚Äúcool Japan‚Äù cultural initiative. The panel hopes to come to some conclusions in time for the government‚Äôs early June unveiling of a national growth strategy. The average household spent ¬•10,984 a month on telecommunications in 2012, up from ¬•8,196 in 2000, ¬•5,429 in 1990, and ¬•4,075 in 1980.¬†Whereas spending on telephones doubled between 1990 and 2012, households spent an average of just ¬•310 a month on television in 2012, less than half the ¬•782 figure recorded in 1990 (although the depressed expenditures were partly in reaction to an earlier surge under the Eco-Point subsidy program). The telephone-related profits flow to companies possessing global standards. These firms are able to collect big data and acquire companies developing software for the analysis of unstructured data, leading to a new cycle of global standardization. In the materials distributed at the nine meetings of the aforementioned industrial competitiveness panel, there is not a single mention of ‚Äúglobal standardization.‚Äù A company that cannot develop global standards will eventually see its products commoditized. Although the yen‚Äôs decline since last December has enabled Japanese firms to recoup some of their lost earnings, a more important issue in our view is whether Japan‚Äôs economy can resume growing. We intend to focus less on the government‚Äôs wide-ranging discussions than on the ability of a new generation of Japanese executives to demonstrate a sophisticated business sensibility, strong powers of observation, and the power to act.¬† In light of the above, the problem for investors is that there really isn't any visibility on what the "third arrow" entails just yet. Perhaps we could assert that Wednesday, with the announcement of Abe's structural reform program, observers will finally find out whether or not Abenomics is actually "for real." Unfortunately, we won't get the full details Wednesday. The plan isn't expected to be finalized until sometime later this month, ahead of the elections in the Upper House of Japan's bicameral legislature scheduled in July. And that brings us to the Upper House elections. Briefly, some background: Shinz≈ç Abe is, if there ever were one, a career politician. His grandfather,¬†Nobusuke Kishi, served as Japanese Prime Minister from 1957 to 1960.¬†His father,¬†Shintaro Abe, was another major politician who served as Japan's foreign minister from 1981 to 1986. Even forgetting that Abe has grown up in a political family his entire life, he himself has been in politics virtually ever since graduating from college, save for a brief three-year stint at Kobe Steel in between. And the economy does not really appear to be a big priority for Abe, irrespective of the merits of Abenomics. A recent special report by Reuters correspondents Linda Sieg, Yuko Yoshikawa and Tetsushi Kajimoto¬†revealed an important insight: Abe may have been elected to the premiership in December because of Abenomics, but it was, in fact, a late addition to his campaign platform. Sieg, Yoshikawa, and Tetsushi report (emphasis added): Less than six years after his humiliating departure, Abe, 58, is back in office for a rare second term. He is riding a wave of popularity spurred mainly by voters' hopes that his prescription for fixing the¬†economy¬†will end two decades of stagnation. The policy, known as "Abenomics", is a mix of monetary easing, stimulative spending and growth-inducing steps including deregulation in sectors such as energy. But interviews with some two dozen allies and insiders show "Abenomics" was a late addition to his platform. Abe's unlikely comeback was engineered by a corps of politicians who called themselves the "True Conservatives," many of whom share his commitment to loosening constitutional constraints on the military and restoring traditional values such as group harmony and pride in Japanese culture and history. While the cultural-political agenda is what drove them, Abe and his backers also came to realize that voters cared most about the¬†economy, so this time, they made it the top priority. "Mr. Abe in his first term put more priority on revising the constitution than on the economy," said Yoichi Takahashi, a former¬†finance¬†ministry official who is an adviser to Abe. "Even now, I think that is the case. But I think he realized that in terms of order of priority, he had to work on the economy first." (Sieg, Yoshikawa, and Tetsushi's report is an absolute must-read. Find it here.) The Reuters report highlights Abe and his band of cultural conservative politicians' true agenda: revising the Japanese constitution in order to remilitarize Japan, which has been a pacifist nation since its defeat in World War Two. Abe's political party, LDP, already controls the Lower House and, of course, the Administration. In July, he gets a shot at the Upper House. If LDP wins, they will control the legislature and the executive branch, and it will ostensibly make Abe's constitutional priorities a lot easier to push through. Credit Suisse's Henry Russell recently expressed skepticism, citing fears of a "shift from structural reform to constitutional reform," writing to clients that "Abe appears more focused on the long term Abe family/LDP goal of constitutional reform, rather than industrial revitalization and social reform." So, is Abenomics for real? The "third arrow" to be announced Wednesday is the preview.

Urban Outfitters' choice for its first female board member is raising some eyebrows.† Margaret Hayne, wife of CEO Richard Hayne, is joining the hipster brand's board, reports Gretchen Morgenson at The New York Times.† The company had been criticized by investors for not being diverse enough, according to Morgenson.† New York state Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli told the Times that the appointment of Hayne's wife doesn't solve the diversity problem on boards.† ìTo nominate someone who is also a long-term employee, an insider and married to the CEO and chairman doesnít pass the smell test of really trying to find someone that adds to diversity and is going to be an independent voice," DiNapoli said.† Sapna Maheshwari at Buzzfeed points out that Margaret, who is president of Urban Outfitters' sister store Free People, makes†$451,038 a year.† "The fact that the†first female ever†to be named to the board of Urban Outfitters was chief executive Richard Hayneís wife should not be shocking at all," Maheshwari writes. "The free-spirited hipster clothing company has been quietly run like a family commune for years." Their son David is also an executive at the brand, and makes $414,912 annually, according to Maheshwari.†
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 59% Of Advisors Expect Their Compensation To Grow Over 10% (REP. Magazine via WealthManagement.com) A new survey by REP. Magazine found that financial advisors are more optimistic about their compensation this year than last. 59% expect their compensation to grow 10% or more this year, compared with about 50% in 2012. The survey also found that advisor revenue had a 59%-41% fee-commission break up. But a massive correction in markets would deliver a blow to their income.† "If the markets decline by more than 10 percent, most firms are no longer profitable," Philip Palaveev, CEO of The Ensemble Practice. "Anything beyond a 20 percent decline and most firms donít have enough cash flow to operate normally, often resulting in drastic reductions in workforce. Now weíre not just talking income; weíre talking lost jobs and people laid off, careers interrupted and drastic changes,î he says." BYRON WIEN: It's 'Unrealistic' For Stocks To Keep Rallying Like This Without A Correction (Fox Business) Stocks have had a great run this year but Byron Wien doesn't expect this to last much longer. "The market has already given you a full-year's performance and we're only at the beginning of June," he told Fox Business. "It's unrealistic to think the market could continue to go up at the rate it's gone up so far this year. There's bound to be a correction. You have earnings problems, you have the economy slowing, you have all the economies around the world slowing, demand for U.S. products are slowing, so my view is it's time to be cautious."† A Rapid Rise In Interest Rates Will Hurt REITs (Advisor Perspectives) Eric Rothman, of Urdang Securities Management spoke with Advisor Perspectives on Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) will respond to rising rates and inflation. They also argue that there is little correlation between the performance of REITs and interest rates over an extended period of time when those rises are anticipated.† "Rapidly rising interest rates, in the absence of an accompanying economic expansion, would be bad for many asset classes, but particularly so for real estate which is a capital-intensive industry. If interest rates are gradually rising in response to an improving economy, real estate and REITs can fare quite well. REITs have used the current low interest rate environment to lock-in very attractive, long-duration financing. REITs have well-laddered maturities and use little floating-rate debt. As such, their balance sheets should be insulated from the immediate impact of rising interest rates. "...REITs own hard assets. In an inflationary environment we would expect REITs and real estate to perform reasonably well. As prices rise, replacement cost rises, thereby bolstering real estate values. Rents are often tied to increases in CPI, thus protecting landlordís cash flow by ensuring rents rise as prices rise." Here Are Our Interest Rate Forecasts For 7 'Taper' Scenarios (Morgan Stanley) Investors and advisors are anxious about when the Fed will begin to wind down its asset purchase program.† Morgan Stanley's Matthew Hornbach came up with seven different scenarios for Treasury yields depending on when the taper begins. Hornbach expects the taper to begin in December. Morgan Stanley FINRA Fines Wells Fargo And Bank of America Over Unsuitable Sales Of Floating-Rate Bank Loan Funds (FINRA) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has fined Wells Fargo and Bank of America a total of $2.5 million and ordered them to pay an additionally $3 million to "customers for losses incurred from unsuitable sales of floating-rate bank loan funds." "FINRA ordered Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC, as successor for Wells Fargo Investments, LLC, to pay a fine of $1.25 million and to reimburse approximately $2 million in losses to 239 customers. FINRA ordered Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &amp; Smith Incorporated, as successor for Banc of America Investment Services, Inc., to pay a fine of $900,000 and to reimburse approximately $1.1 million in losses to 214 customers."
DoubleLine Funds"Something happened in the middle of May," said investing god Jeff Gundlach as he began his latest webcast on the state of the global markets and the economy. He was referring to how global interest rates quietly rallied and how the Japanese stock market fell spectacularly. He notes that the magnitude of the interest rate rally isn't unusual.¬† Having said that, Gundlach believes rates will stay low thanks to a "put" by the Federal Reserve. Should rates rise, Gundlach believes the Fed would actually expand quantitative easing. This is because high interest rates would put too much pressure on the economy, and it would cause Federal interest expenses to become too onerous. "I certainly think the Fed is going to reduce quantitative easing," he said. But he attributes the reduction to the shrinking Federal deficit. "I'm starting to like long-term Treasuries," said Gundlach as he predicted the 10-year Treasury yield would end the year at 1.7%. All of Gundlach's theses are based on the fact that the global economy remains weak, GDP growth forecasts continue to come down, and unemployment remains high and lop-sided. He communicates all of this in his eye-opening, hand-picked collection of charts on growth, employment, inflation, stocks, bonds, and other critical global macro indicators. Anyone who is serious about investing must consider his charts. And for anyone who's just curious, these charts will give you a peek into how Gundlach thinks.
flickr/ExtraZebraSmoking doesn't just damage smokers and people who spend ¬†time with them. It also hurts the bottom line for companies that employ smokers. According to a new study from Micah Berman at Ohio State, the average smoking private sector employee costs companies $5,800 more per year than one who has never smoked. Annual cost estimates ranged from $2,885 to $10,125.¬†¬† That's a pretty significant chunk of change. According to the study, on average there's about a $517 loss from increased absenteeism, a $462 loss of productivity related to nicotine addiction, a $3,077 loss due to smoke breaks, and $2,056 in extra health care costs.¬† The researchers were¬†relatively conservative¬†in their estimates, figuring five smoke breaks in an eight hour workday, three of which took place during assigned breaks.¬† This is a much higher estimate than a CDC study conducted a decade ago, which pegged the number at $3,400. That's a big cost, particularly for companies with thousands of employees.¬† Employers aren't blind to these costs. Increasingly, their response is to discourage smoking, help people quit, force them to pay higher premiums, or even refuse to hire smokers. Some employers don't like interfering with workers' lives, however, and others worry about scaring away talent. Bioethecist Zeke Emmanuel (Chicago Mayor Rahm's brother)¬†recently argued in the New England Journal of Medicine that declining to hire smokers is unethical because "it results in a failure to care for people, places an additional burden on already-disadvantaged populations, and preempts interventions that more effectively promote smoking cessation."¬† 65% of Americans agree with him in opposing the practice.¬† We recently spoke to Dr. Toby Cosgrove, the CEO of the Cleveland Clinic, who spearheaded an early effort to reduce, then eliminate smoking at the hospital system.¬† The clinic now nicotine tests prospective new employees, alongside a drug test, and doesn't hire those who test positive. They are offered smoking cessation support and the opportunity to re-test. They've managed to reduce employee smoking to just 6%, and along with other wellness efforts have significantly cut health care spending. As for backlash and talent retention, it hasn't been a problem. Public outcry died out in about a week, and they haven't seen¬†people up and quit. "I don't think its an ethical issue at all," Cosgrove told us. "I think its a practical issue. And the practical issue is that we want to keep people healthy and as far as not hiring them is concerned, there's lots of places they can go and work."
trackrecord / FlickrWarren Buffett's MidAmerican Energy utility developer is shelving plans to build a nuclear plant in Iowa, the Des Moines register's Perry Beeman and William Petroski report. The modular design of the plant was deemed too experimental, and there remains uncertainty about whether fossil fuel plants will be punished by carbon taxing, they said. Local politics also played a factor. Until last year, no new nuclear reactors had been approved in the U.S. since 1978. Read the full story at the Des Moines Register &gt;
CNBCJeff Gundlach just hosted another one of his extremely popular public webcasts. Titled, "What in the World is Going On?", his presentation aimed to address the recent craziness in the stock and bond markets. "Volatility has re-entered the global equity markets," he said. Gundlach, who has long been bullish on the Japanese stock market, addressed the recent 15% plunge in the Nikkei by saying that it's "not a good time" to be selling. But he also isn't convinced the Nikkei will hit a new high this year. On interest rates and discussion of the Fed possibly "tapering" its bond purchase program, Gundlach thinks that there could soon be some "right-sizing." Nevertheless, he thinks interest rates will stay low because surging rates would cause Federal interest expenses to blow out. "Gourmet burrito is an oxymoron," he said. Gundlach is listing YTD returns of the bond market sectors. "Something happened in the middle of May." Interest rates rose stealthily, and Japan fell spectacularly. "Volatility is re-entering the global equity markets." Global growth forecasts have been coming down. The only country with global GDP growth forecast upgraded is Japan. "The Japanese stock market looks like it's had it for the time being," said Gundlach on the Nikkei that went from 8,500 to 16,000. "This is not a good time to be exiting the Nikkei," talking about the Nikkei being 15% off of its high. I don't think you're going to new highs this year. You don't have a huge rally like you've had in the Nikkei and see it collapse all the way. Youth unemployment remains high.&nbsp; This will happen if interest rates squeeze the older, saving class. Gundlach says "right-size" instead of "taper."  Breakeven inflation rates are coming down. "I really dislike TIPS." "I don't own TIPS. I don't think anyone should use TIPS." CPI and PCE don't show any inflation. If they go higher, then the Fed would have to consider increasing QE. Especially since this causes Federal interest expenses to rise. There's a put on bonds by the Fed. Corporate profits are benefiting, but vulnerable to the need for higher tax revenue. We could see a mean reversion in corporate profits as a % of GDP. Profit margins are particularly high in healthcare and computers.&nbsp; They also have the lowest tax rates. Real personal income hasn't recovered to pre-recession peak. Average hourly earnings remain low. The employment to population ratio hasn't gone anywhere. "This is a problem." The economy isn't that great.&nbsp; Gundlach doesn't see us getting away from zero interest rate policy. And retirement age is going higher due to combination of life expectancy increasing and low interest rates. College graduate labor force participation rate. "If everybody had a college degree, what would it really be worth?" asks Gundlach rhetorically.&nbsp; Doesn't make sense to encourage everyone to go to college. Stocks do well during stimulus, bonds do well during periods of no stimulus. Not really a silver bull. CRB chart is really scary. Mortgage rates rising by ~150 basis points would impact affordability significantly. Not fond of subprime dedicated funds. Probably never will be. "Good luck."
Before Macao was a glamorous gambling center, it was the "Wild Wild West" according to Jason Ader, the CEO of hedge fund Ader Investments. He started off on Wall Street as a gaming analyst, so checking out Macao before it was opened up to gaming companies in the early 2000s was part of the job. He also currently serves as Director of Las Vegas Sands Corp. In short ó Ader made it Macao in the 90s to prepare the way for the insane boom we've seen over the past decade.†Today, at Bloomberg's Hedge Funds Summit, he told the story of his first time. Once Ader got to the island from Hong Kong, he asked his cab driver to show him around the city. What he saw was pretty amazing ó people crowding around casino tables 15 rows deep as the person willing to put the most money on the table fought to the front for their seat. He saw enormous potential, and he saw growth. Unfortunately, his cab driver saw that Ader had money and eventually pulled a knife on him, leaving him with his passport and a ferry ticket to Hong Kong. So yeah, "Wild, Wild West."
alex.ch / FlickrEarlier, I described how the staff at a Ritz Carlton in the Arizona desert closed the drains in the sink in my room whenever they tidied up the place. I assumed that this was some uber-fancy-customer-service thing: Close the drains so the guest doesn't have to. But a reader named Cliff Kinney from Phoenix wrote to me with an alternative hypothesis: I just wanted to give you a heads up on the most likely reason that the drain was closed, and that's to stop¬†scorpions¬†from entering your room through the drain as that's a popular way for them to enter buildings. Scorpions! The web site of an Arizona pest control company supports this hypothesis: 4.¬†Do NOT walk around the home during the nighttime hours with BAREFEET! Check all shoes, folded towels, dresser drawers, closets on a periodic basis for scorpions. Check molding around all in door piping and repair if any holes are present. Keep all drains (tub, shower, sinks, etc) closed or sealed when not in use as scorpions have been known to come up through the drains on rare occasions. So maybe that's what the Ritz Carlton was up to. You can see the rest of my Ritz Carlton bathroom and suite here &gt;
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesThe stock market was having a rough afternoon with the Dow down by as much as 155 points. But it somehow managed to recover most of those losses. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,177, -76.4 pts, -0.5%S&amp;P 500: 1,631, -9.0 pts, -0.5%NASDAQ: 3,445, -20.1 pts, -0.5% And now the top stories:
CDC / wikimediaEarlier today the White House announced that they were taking a new, aggressive policy against patent trolls.¬† Here's a White House summary of the modus operandi of patent trolls: Innovators continue to face challenges from Patent Assertion Entities (PAEs), companies that, in the President‚Äôs words ‚Äúdon‚Äôt actually produce anything themselves,‚Äù and instead develop a business model ‚Äúto essentially leverage and hijack somebody else‚Äôs idea and see if they can extort some money out of them.‚Äù¬† These entities are commonly known as ‚Äúpatent trolls.‚Äù The idea is that you mire a company in patent lawsuits so that it's easier for the company to just cough up a settlement than waste vast amounts of money in the courts. Anyway, you just need to look at the statistics to realize its about time that there was finally some attention paid to this parasitic industry. However, the impact that these lawsuits have on actual businesses is only getting worse, Based on data from a¬†a 2012 study by James Benson and Michael Meurer, take a look at these two charts. This one shows how the growth of patent troll litigation has exploded in size in six years alone. Most importantly, look at what is driving that growth. Increasingly, small and medium sized firms ‚Äî companies that don't have as many resources to defend themselves ‚Äî have been targeted by patent trolls: Chart Walter Hickey/BI, Data from SSRN Next, take a look at the combined legal, settlement and lawsuit resolution costs to actual businesses. In 2011, companies were forced to spend $29 billion on legal costs because of patent trolls. Worst of all, that's growing annually.¬† Chart Walter Hickey/BI, Data from SSRN
Screenshot via Fox BusinessThe stock market rally so far this year has been painful for market bears. But there are some that argue this can't go on much further. In an interview with Fox Business, Blackstone Vice Chairman Byron Wien says it's "unrealistic" to expect the rally to carry on much longer. "The market has already given you a full-year's performance and we're only at the beginning of June. It's unrealistic to think the market could continue to go up at the rate it's gone up so far this year. There's bound to be a correction. You have earnings problems, you have the economy slowing, you have all the economies around the world slowing, demand for U.S. products are slowing, so my view is it's time to be cautious."†† Wien also pointed out some of the "fissures" in the market: "Earnings were up 3% in the first quarter, S&amp;P 500 operating earnings. They're going to be up 5% in the second quarter.† Analysts are projecting them to be up 11% in the third quarter and 15% in the fourth. And I'm suspicious you won't see double digit gains in the third and fourth quarter. I think it'll be below that and earnings disappointment will be the first of the fissures that you're referring to.† "ÖA significant portion of those asset purchases go into financial assets and that's happening here too. And that's probably the second of the fissures. There's no question that the Fed is going to slowdown at some point. If they did $60 billion a month, instead of $85 billions that's still a lot but the market might interpret that as something negative." Wien also said a 10% correction is possible, but it is unlikely to be that great of a decline. He also we've seen lows in bond yields and investors will lose money in the bond market across all maturities. Watch the entire interview at Fox Business:
We've come up against another rare bout of weakness in the U.S. stock market this afternoon. The market has been heading lower basically all day, and is currently trading down 0.6%. Stifel Nicolaus Head of ETF Trading and Strategy Dave Lutz flags three reasons stocks may be selling off today:
When his Oracle Team USA won the America's Cup sailing race in 2010, entrepreneur and sailing aficionado Larry Ellison earned the right to choose the rules for this year's competition. Ellison has taken the opportunity to screw up America's favorite sailing race. By selecting an especially expensive, complicated, and fast type of boat ó a 72-foot catamaran called the AC72 ó Ellison has effectively made the 2013 Cup too costly for many competitors, the New York Times reported today. The competition is set to begin on July 4, and only four teams are signed up. That's fewer than in any modern America's Cup, and far fewer than the 15 teams race organizers had predicted would compete, according to the Times. There are usually between 7 and 13 teams. That's not even enough boats for us to bother spending time building a photo slideshow about.† Each team, with the exception of New Zealand's, is backed by an individual billionaire, and each has spent between $65 million and $100 million so far. The chief executive of Ellison's Oracle Team USA, Russell Coutts, noted Ellison reduced the crew size for the boats to 11 members, from 17, as a way to control costs. The Swedish team, Artemis, has not announced whether or not it will compete come July. On May 9, its catamaran capsized while practicing in San Francisco Bay, killing sailor Andrew "Bart" Simpson. This week, Olympic champion sailor Sir Ben Ainslie, who was a friend of Simpson's and sails for Ellison's team, called for a review of the Cup's rules. "We need to look at some of the rules to try to increase the safety of those boats, the AC72 class, and we're going through that process right now," he said, according to the Daily Mail. The America's Cup is the world's oldest active race, and is not held on a set schedule. The reigning champion has the right to choose the location of the next race and the type of boat that will be used. A spokesperson for Ellison told the Times the high-speed, high-tech AC72 boats were chosen because they would make the race more exciting for a television audience. The location, San Francisco Bay, was chosen for the same reason. But even that choice looks like it is backfiring. The lack of competitors (who sail against each other for the right to challenge Ellison's team for the Cup) means the event could be abbreviated, the San Francisco Business Times reported. With fewer racing days, the city might not even make back the money it has spent to host the race. In protest, more than 4,000 people have signed a petition on Causes.com calling on Ellison to cover any debt the city incurs.†
Getty ImagesGoldman Sachs wants you to believe that Too Big To Fail banks do not actually enjoy a funding advantage. The Wall Street firm recently put out a paper with the mild title of "Measuring the TBTF effect on bond pricing." It argues that the commonly-held view that TBTF banks can borrow cheaply because bond investors expect the government will support them used to be a little bit correct. Then it became very correct during the financial crisis. But now is totally incorrect. The study argues that that six banks with more than $500 billion in assets paid interest rates on their bonds that were an average six basis-points lower than smaller banks from 1999 to mid-2007. When the financial crisis struck, the funding advantage grew far wider. But beginning in 2011, the funding difference reversed, with the biggest banks now paying an average of 10 basis points more than smaller banks. "This undermines the notion that government support drives a TBTF funding advantage," the report says. Well, not exactly. CNBC.com The Goldman researchers are practicing a bit of sleight-of-hand here. The argument about TBTF funding has never been predicated on the absolute funding levels of banks or the funding of big banks relative to small banks. Rather, it's that the expectation of government support lowers the cost of funds relative to what they would be otherwise. To put it more simply, the TBTF funding argument is that Goldman, with implicit government support, pays less to issue bonds than Goldman without support would. Reading the Goldman report, you might come away thinking that the principle difference between Goldmanóor†JPMorgan Chase,†Bank of America,†Citigroup,Wells Fargo†and†Morgan Stanleyóon the one hand, and the smaller banks was simply size. But that's not true. The TBTF banks take on far more risk and far more debt than smaller banks.† Take UnionBanCal, the San Francisco subsidiary bank of the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group. It is a big bank with around $97 billion in assets. But Goldman, with $938 billion in total assets, is ten times the size. At the end of the last quarter, Union had a tangible common equity ratio of 10.5 percent; Goldman's was 6.95 percent. This means that where Goldman could be rendered insolvent by a 7 percent drop in the value of its assets, it would take a drop of greater than 10.5 percent for Union shareholders to be wiped out. This example is a pretty good illustration of the difference between smaller banks and the TBTF variety. The average smaller bank has a tangible common equity ratio of between 9 percent and 10 percent. None of the six TBTFers has a tangible common equity ratio greater than 7 percent. This should matter for bond investors. A 2009 McKinsey study found that one quarter of all banks with a tangible common equity ratios of less than 7.5 percent were distressed during the financial crisis, making up 83 percent of all distressed banks.† But, as the Goldman study shows, these risky, debt-laden banks pay only 10 basis point more on their debt post-crisis. In other words, there is a TBTF subsidy. It's not as large as it once was, probably because the financial crisis made it clear that the largest financial institutions are far more fragile than almost anyone suspected prior to 2008. But it's there and plain enough to see. It's a bit disturbing that Goldman doesn't seem to understand this. Their misperception means that they are likely to misread or ignore market signals about the risks they take. Goldmanóand the other TBTF banksóseem to still be blind to their own vulnerabilityówhich is what got us in the financial crisis mess in the first place. _By CNBC's John Carney. Follow me on Twitter@Carney
WikimediaThis is a tapir.Everyone is now waiting for "the taper" to attack. This is what the Federal Reserve is calling the moment it begins winding down the large-scale asset purchases it's been using to keep interest rates low. But the Fed hasn't said when this will occur. So in a note today, Morgan Stanley's Matthew Hornbach lays out seven different scenarios modeling changes to treasury yields for when the taper does start. Here's the table: Morgan Stanley And Hornbach's comment:† Exhibit 4 shows our estimated impact on 5-, 10-, and 30-year Treasury yields under various tapering scenarios. The final column shows the ëfair valueí level for 10-year Treasury yields under each of these tapering assumptions. For instance, if the Fed begins to taper purchases in July, we believe 10-year Treasury yields should lie between 2.25-2.30%.  Hornbach says he's betting on the December start date, with September the earliest conceivable date.  "As a result, we believe 10-year Treasury yields above 2.15% are a buying opportunity," he says. The 10-year is right around 2.12% today.
AP/JOHN DURICKAPaul VolckerNEW YORK ñ The ìbrandingî of modern central banking started in the United States in the early 1980ís under then-Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker. Facing worrisomely high and debilitating inflation, Volcker declared war against it ñ†and won. In delivering secular disinflation, he did more than change expectations and economic behavior. He also greatly enhanced the Fedís standing among the general public, in financial markets, and in policy circles. Volckerís victory was institutionalized in legislation and practices that granted central banks greater autonomy and, in some cases, formal independence from long-standing political constraints. To many, central banks now stood for reliability and responsible power. Simply put, they could be trusted to do the right thing; and they delivered. As any corporate executive will tell you, brands can be consequential drivers of behavior. In essence, a brand is a promise; and powerful brands deliver on their promise consistently ñ be it based on quality, price, or experience. In some cases, consumers have been known to act on the strength of brand alone, even purchasing a product with relatively limited knowledge about it. Indeed, brands send signals that facilitate the task at hand. In some special cases ñ think of Apple, Berkshire Hathaway, Facebook, and Google ñ they have also acted as a significant catalyst for behavioral modification. In the process, they often insert a wedge that essentially disconnects fundamentals from pricing. Building on Volckerís success, Western central banks have used their brand to help maintain low and stable inflation. By signaling their intention to contain price pressures, they would alter inflation expectations ñ and thus essentially convince the public and the government to do the heavy lifting. In the last few years, however, the threat of inflation has not been an issue. Instead, Western central banks have had to confront market failures, fragmented financial systems, clogged monetary-policy transmission mechanisms, and sluggish growth in output and employment. Facing greater challenges in delivering desired outcomes, they have essentially pushed both policies and their brand power to the limit. This is apparent in central banksí aggressive emphasis on communication and forward policy guidance. Both have been used more widely ñ indeed, taken to extreme levels ñ to supplement the unconventional expansion of balance sheets in the context of liquidity traps. Now, corporate executives will also tell you that brand management is a tricky affair. It is particularly hard to maintain or control your brand when popular sentiment overshoots. This is what happened to Appleís stock this year. As brilliantly explained by Guy Kawasaki in†his book on the company, the brand essentially created ìenchantment.î Extrapolating this into a market view that Apple could not only innovate continuously, but also fend off any and all competitors, investors took the companyís share price to dizzying heights. Elsewhere in California, Facebook found its brand fueling enormous hype for the companyís initial public offering. Encouraged by investor excitement and indications of over-subscription, underwriters hiked the IPOís price well above what they had first deemed reasonable. Issuing the stock to the public at an inflated price a year ago, the shares initially traded even higher. In both of these cases, and in many others, brand power did more than lead to price behavior that was disconnected from fundamentals; it also caused a dangerous overshoot, which, when subsequently reversed, damaged the brand. However powerful, brands cannot divorce pricing from fundamentals entirely and forever. Accordingly, and despite a significant market rally that has taken many individual stocks to record highs, Apple and Facebook currently trade at almost half their record levels. Their dominance and influence are no longer unquestioned. Western central bankers should spend some time reflecting on these experiences. Some have actively encouraged markets to take the prices of many financial assets to levels no longer warranted by fundamentals. Others have stood by passively. Indeed, it seems that only retiring central bankers, such as Meryvn King of the Bank of England, are willing to raise concerns publicly. This behavior is understandable. Central bankers are basically hoping that financial-market hype by itself can help pull fundamentals higher. The idea is that price action will trigger both the ìwealth effectî and ìanimal spirits,î thus inducing consumers to spend more and companies to invest in future capacity. Count me among those who worry about this situation. Far from a world of optimal policy, central bankers have been forced into prolonged reliance on imperfect approaches. From my professional vantage point, I sense a mounting risk of collateral damage and unintended consequences. Market signals are more distorted, fueling resource misallocations. Investors are piling on more risk at increasingly elevated prices. Fundamentals-based investing is giving way to a frantic search for relative bargains in an increasingly overpriced financial world. All this will not matter much if central banks live up to their reputation as responsible and powerful institutions that deliver on their economic promises. But if they do not ñ essentially because they are not getting the required support from politicians and other policymakers ñ then the downside will involve more than just disappointed outcomes. They will have materially damaged their standing and, consequently, the future effectiveness of their policy stance. By extending well beyond their comfort zone, todayís central banks face unusual brand-management risks. Their prior ability to deliver on promises and expectations has made todayís financial markets take the forward pricing of the economy to levels that exceed what central bankers alone can reasonably deliver. The implication is not that central banks should immediately halt their hyper-activism and unconventional measures. It is that they should be much more open about the inherent limitations of their policy effectiveness in current circumstances. Western central bankers need to become much more vocal and, one hopes, more persuasive in placing pressure on politicians and other policymakers. Otherwise, risking major brand damage, they will end up adding yet another item to an already-overloaded plate of challenges for the next generation.
kewl / flickrEarlier today, the White House announced an executive order that will strike back against patent trolls.¬† From the White House press release, here's a basic description of what a patent troll is: Innovators continue to face challenges from Patent Assertion Entities (PAEs), companies that, in the President‚Äôs words ‚Äúdon‚Äôt actually produce anything themselves,‚Äù and instead develop a business model ‚Äúto essentially leverage and hijack somebody else‚Äôs idea and see if they can extort some money out of them.‚Äù¬† These entities are commonly known as ‚Äúpatent trolls.‚Äù¬† The blog Boing Boing has covered the patent troll issue extensively, and has cataloged numerous incident of unscrupulous patent holders who tried to game the system. Just a few anecdotal incidents include: The list goes on, but you get the idea. These are individuals with time and money to litigate, and they're a huge drain on the innovative sectors of the economy.¬† Here are eleven facts from a 2012 study by James Benson and Michael Meurer on the legal disputes stemming from "non-practicing entities (NPE), the legal term for a patent troll. Publicly-traded NPEs cost small and medium-sized firms more money than these NPEs could possibly transfer to inventors. This reduces the net amount that firms of any size have available to invest in innovation.
When you add up all the different kinds of cloud computing services, you're looking at a $131 billion market, Gartner figures. IBM says it plans to nab at least $7 billion of in the next 18 months. So CEO Ginni Rometty just created a new Cloud Services division and put her old friend, Erich Clementi, SVP, IBM Global Technology Services, in charge. Clementi is a 29-year veteran who revived IBM's mainframe business in the mid 2000's and then moved onto to something like a chief strategy officer role. He's becoming a big part of Rometty's brain trust. In March, she made him co-pilot of IBM's $40 billion Global IT Services business unit, sharing the job with rising star Bridget van Kralingen. Clementi and van Kralingen took over joint stewardship of Services when Michael Daniels retired last March. Daniels was Rometty's main rival for the CEO job after Sam Palmisano retired in 2012. We don't know how big a challenge it will be for Clementi to hit the promised $7 billion target because IBM doesn't report its cloud revenue numbers. But it is a big growth business for IBM, like it is for all the other enterprise IT players. In April, IBM said that its cloud business grew by 70% compared to the year earlier quarter. IBM is clearly ready to buy its way into cloud revenue, too. Today it bought cloud computing company SoftLayer, outbidding EMC to do so. SoftLayer has about 21,000 customers and had an estimated $400 million in revenue in 2012. SoftLayer will become the cornerstone of the new Cloud unit, IBM said. Rometty, who took over the CEO job in 2012, is still on the hook to make good on IBM's much promised $20 earnings-per-share target in 2015 and this new cloud unit is a key part of her plan. IBM says it will hit EPS of at least $15.53 in 2013.
Google FinanceThe stock market is heading south. Overall, it's been a quiet day for economic news and earnings announcements. People continue to mull over the possibility that the Federal Reserve could soon taper its quantitative easing program, which means the Fed would slow its bond purchases, which in turn could cause interest rates to rise. We've already seen Treasury bonds fall in recent weeks, which means rates are rising. Goldman Sachs' Fracesco Garzarelli is convinced that the bond sell-off is "for real." In an interview with the WSJ's Katie Martin, Garzarelli said that there would be speed bumps on the way up.† But he's convinced they will rise through the end of the year. What do higher rates mean for stocks? For one, it should mean higher interest expenses. However, Deutsche Bank's research shows that stocks tend to rise with interest rates.† This is explained by the theory that rising interest rates signal an improving economy.
Activist investor Bill Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital, did a Q&amp;A with the Financial Times about his philanthropic work with the Pershing Square Foundation.† When asked about his short selling, Ackman said if he can bring down Herbalife it will be the "greatest achievement" of his life. †† From the FT: You have received a lot of good press, but there has also been some criticism of some of the investment stances you have taken and also your trading techniques, specifically the short selling. In a way, your philanthropy does not seem to fit with how you live your professional life. How would you respond to that assertion? I think weíve accomplished more for society in our for-profit activities than in our not-for-profit activities. My work with the Foundation is a continuum of what I do in my professional life. When the Foundation sees a problem we always ask if there is a business solution. I think most of the criticisms you have heard relate to my position on Herbalife. If I manage to close down that company I will consider it the greatest achievement of my life. Back in December, Ackman publicly announced that he's shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products. He believes the company is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income people†and that the FTC will be induced to investigate it.†He has a price target of $0.† Ackman has also pledged to donate 100% of personal profits made from this short to charity.† Herbalife's stock has been the center of a huge hedge fund clash of the titans.† Ackman's long-time rival†Carl Icahn†snapped up a massive stake in Herbalife. †Icahn owns more than 16 million shares of Herbalife and said he thinks Ackman will be the victim of "the mother of all short squeezes." Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman's short position was confirmed, the stock has risen more than 8.2%. †The stock has traded in a 52-week range of $24.24 to $56.39. Herbalife was last down more than 4.5% today at about $43.92 a share.† Herbalife has denied Ackman's claims.†
Wikimedia CommonsA 1993 Jeep Grand Cherokee.Chrysler will not comply with a request by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) request to recall 2.7 million cars, the automaker said today. The NHTSA asked Chrysler to recall the Jeep Grand Cherokee in model years 1993 to 2004, and the Jeep Liberty in model years 2002 to 2007. In a press release, Chrysler said it "has been working and sharing data with the Agency," but that it "does not agree with NHTSA's conclusions." The NHTSA alleged that the fuel systems in some cars are defective and pose a safety risk in rear-impact collisions. "We believe NHTSAís initial conclusions are based on an incomplete analysis of the underlying data," Chrysler said, "and we are committed to continue working with the Agency to resolve this disagreement." Automakers have the right to refuse a NHTSA Recall Request Letter, in which case the administration can issue an "initial decision" that a safety defect exists. That is followed by a public meeting with the automaker, and the NHTSA administrator can issue a final decision that forces the recall of the vehicles. In May, Chrysler announced it would recall about 469,000 Jeep Commanders and Grand Cherokees because the cars could shift themselves from park into neutral. That defect was related to 26 accidents and two injuries, according to the New York Times.
REUTERSThis bull market has been an absolute nightmare for traders shorting, or betting against, the market. Still, the shorts are holding on to their positions in hopes of a pullback. We screened the S&amp;P 500 for the most heavily shorted stocks. The list includes a lot of tech and electronics firms struggling to adapt out of outdated business models. But some old standbys remain, including a large clothing retailer as well as a videogame seller. And a major for-profit education company is seeing renewed doubts about its marquee product. We ranked the stock by short interest as a percentage of floating shares.
Gold is down 1% to $1,397 an ounce. The sell-off is possibly being driven by news of the Reserve Bank of India's decision to curb gold imports by banks. Gold imports would be restricted to "the genuine needs of the exporters of gold jewelery." Gold imports surged in May. India has said that imports of gold and oil are responsible for its large current account deficit, which in turn is hurting economic growth that is at a 10-year low.  Here's a look at gold's performance today: Fin Viz
Complete American energy independence will always remain a myth. But as AEI's Mark Perry observes, the U.S. really is weaning itself off OPEC. According to new EIA data, imports from OPEC's member states have now fallen to a 25-year low. Here's Perry's chart: Mark Perry/AEI It's a -38% reduction from the peak of 5.4 million barrels in 2008.
The U.S. housing market is officially back, and we have proof. Lindsay Park, originally a 156-unit subdivision in Mesa, Ariz., had been mothballed (as well as repossessed) from 2007 to 2010, after the housing bubble burst. It's since come roaring back thanks to Woodside Homes, which purchased the project in December 2010.¬†All its remaining units have now been sold, said¬†Paul Kroff, president of Woodside's Arizona division.¬†The last one, which had opened at $169,000, closed for $228,000 just last week, he said. ¬† We have the pictures to show the project's evolution from boom to bust and back.¬† We'll start with Google Earth. Here's what the empty lot looked like in October 2005, after it had been bought by the original developer, Landmark Homes, but before construction had begun.¬† Google Earth The first set of units had gone up by November... Google Earth But that basically proved the top. By May 2007, things had basically ground to a halt, with just a few other units having been built in the intervening years. Google Earth At the low point of the recession, all the place had to show for itself was a new pool. Google Earth Woodside Homes came in in early 2011 and set up a model house... Google Earth By last spring, construction had exploded. Google Earth Which brings us to today: the entire thing's been built out. Google Earth Fran Bangert, a Woodside Homes rep at Kovach Marketing, sent us an additional series of on-the-ground before and after photos of the subdivision. (May 2009-August 2010) Fran Bangert/Kovach Marketing/Woodside Homes Fran Bangert/Kovach Marketing/Woodside Homes Fran Bangert/Kovach Marketing/Woodside Homes Fran Bangert/Kovach Marketing/Woodside Homes (May 2013) Fran Bangert/Kovach Marketing/Woodside Homes Fran Bangert/Kovach Marketing/Woodside Homes Fran Bangert/Kovach Marketing/Woodside Homes Fran Bangert/Kovach Marketing/Woodside Homes Woodside's Kroff¬†told us the project's prime location ‚Äî minutes from schools and Mesa's main freeway ‚Äî along with aggressive courting of the community helped leapfrog the project to the front of buyers' lists. There is no typical purchaser profile, he said: everyone from retirees to foreclosed homeowners "coming out of the penalty box" are now neighbors. Nothing really changed in the Mesa-Phoenix market itself, he said. As soon broader financial conditions became ripe, the area's reputation for affordability and favorable weather would kick in to bring back buyers. Do you live in an area that has experienced a housing revival from bust to boom? Even better, have before and after photos? Share your story with Business Insider's Rob Wile at rwile@businessinsider.com.
Flickr/jeffpangIt used to be I was surrounded by proponents of both passive and active management and the discussions in the office and at bars and coffee shops would rage on forever. These debates were evanescent with fresh facts, every twist and turn in the markets brought a renewed vigor to the back-and-forth. But this conversation - as lively as it once was - has all but died in the last five years. Passive investors have emerged so triumphant at this juncture that they barely even bother hurling their statistics at the crumbled walls of Alphaville anymore. At this point, the¬†passivistas¬†are now arguing amongst themselves about what constitutes a truly passive investment strategy - they bicker over the legitimacy of fundamentally-weighted indexes like 16th century Papists and Protestants. Active investors, in the meantime, really can't say anything.¬†There isn't a single empirical datapoint backing up the idea that an investor is¬†financially¬†better off¬†paying someone to pick their stocks for them. There are other considerations in favor of a active managers - mostly emotional ones involving elbow-rubbing, fancy lunches and alerts - but we'll leave those aside for now. Active mutual fund managers have been clinging to the collar of the bull market for half a decade now, barely keeping up in most cases, severely trailing in others. Hedge fund managers, in the aggregate, have accomplished little aside from wealth transference in this cycle - they were hammered in the crash and then made up for that by largely missing the rebound. In the meantime, the inbound equity fund flows are moving almost unidirectionally into the passive index coffers of Vanguard, State Street, WisdomTree and BlackRock's iShares. The modern investing decision has become one of degrees of passivity and the outflows from the Fidelity Funds of the world bear this out. It's not as though the pro-active management contingent has thrown in the towel, however, it's just that they're a lot less vocal these days. Like Marlins fans, they keep their heads down and their mouths shut. Che Guevara said that "Silence is argument carried out by other means," and I think we're seeing just that right now. To be sure, there are some logical arguments to be made on behalf of active strategies - some make perfect sense and some are ridiculous. Marketocracy's Ken Kam, who has spent a career studying and vetting active managers, touches on one of each type in an interview with Covestor the other day. First, his smart argument, the thing about all strategies that is always true: My experience has taught me two important lessons. One, there is no sector or investment style that works all the time. And two: a great manager gets that way by honing his skill in a single sector or style. The combination of these two lessons is that if you want good performance over time, you can't get it by using the same managers year after year. My approach is to look among the managers who have proven themselves over the long term to find those whose style is performing well now. If there are a lot of proven managers who are all performing well now, then I choose managers whose styles are different from one another, to reduce the impact of any single manager's style falling out of favor. This is absolutely correct, there is no strategy - be it active, passive, value, growth, long-short, arbitrage, mean reversion, trend-following, stock picking etc - that will always work in all environments. Kam gets this correct. The trouble is, most passive guys say they don't care about this or that style being out of favor, they will wait 'til the cycle swings back around - "Forget the needle, buy the haystack" Jack Bogle exhorts us. Most active guys, on the other hand, will be the last to recognize (or admit) that their expertise is not beneficial in a particular market moment. Kam's other argument is of the "stupid" variety. Please understand that this is a very smart man making it, so no insult intended: Owning an index fund is like being a passenger on a jet on automatic pilot. Today's automatic pilots are so good that one might argue that having a human pilot on board is an unnecessary expense. But would you be willing to fly on jet without a human pilot on board? Perhaps if the sky is clear you might consider it. But certainly not if you thought you might be flying into a storm. I think index funds make sense for those who see clear skies ahead for the stock market. For those who see a storm coming, having a human pilot at the helm makes a lot more sense. Okay, I'm gonna stop you right there. The passive investor¬†absolutely does not¬†see "clear skies ahead" at all times. Rather, this investor recognizes that most managers will not be able to detect and react to the thunderclouds in a timely, consistent way. In addition, many of them will be so hyperactive that every gray cloud will appear to be a hurricane, and so a lot of buying and selling (churn) will be the result - leading to higher taxes, trading costs and potential for missed opportunities. Also, about the jumbo jet thing - we used to use a variation of that f*cked-up, fear-mongering argument in the brokerage biz over the phone back in the day. When a prospective client would remind the broker who was pitching him that they had never met in person, the broker would reply, "Jim, let me ask you a question - the last time you took your family on a plane flight, did you meet the captain and his number two in the cockpit? Did you ask them to take a breathalyzer before you took your seats in the cabin?" ¬†It was one of those snarky rhetorical questions built into the sales pitch to accomplish two things: Make the guy feel stupid for bringing that lack of familiarity up and to inject a bit of healthy fear into the already emotionally super-charged discussion, hence making a close seem almost like a relief to the prospect. Whether or not you choose to be passively or actively invested in the market does not at all carry with it the same gravitas as the decision to fly through a storm on a particular type of aircraft. Gain vs Loss is not the same as Life vs Death and the implication of that analogy is grotesque. Let me just close here by saying that I am an agnostic on the argument. I believe that active management has a place in a portfolio, specifically as it relates to asset allocation and course correction. I also believe that some people and firms can be really good at selecting securities and timing markets - but there are less of these people than you think and even they can only outperform for a finite period of time before mean reversion catches up. ¬†If you haven't read Mauboussin's¬†The Success Equation: Untangling Skill and Luck in Business, Sports, and Investing¬†I would ask that you please do so before arguing with me, the math is the math. But I do believe that most people are better off doing as little as possible and that hunting for the next Tesla or Google should be firmly classified as a form of entertainment, cordoned off from serious retirement assets and unrelated to the future income one is counting on. Whether or not we are successful in identifying the next ten-bagger stock should not determine whether or not we spend retirement driving a golf cart or pushing a shopping cart. There's nothing wrong with deriving a bit of our entertainment from the markets each day as opposed to just pro sports or movies. So long as we keep in mind that, as Bernard Baruch¬†instructs us in the first of his Ten Rules,¬†speculation on a meaningful scale should only be carried out by professional speculators. The problems with being completely orthodox passive are well-known and just as legitimate - indices tend to overweight the most overvalued stocks just as they are peaking out in both market capitalization and importance, by owning losers along with winners you are saying all companies are worthwhile holdings which is obviously false, indexes will never get out of the way of index crashes - obviously, and in flat markets (think the aught's decade) you are basically sitting back and accepting mediocrity. My own belief system,¬†which continues to evolve as new information presents itself because I am an investor and not a politician, says that less is more. It also says passive is superior to active most of the time, but a little of the latter can go a long way if applied systematically and repeat-ably. This is easier said than done for most investors, specifically amateurs or part-timers, so it is better to err on the side of doing too little rather than doing too much. Unfortunately I can't join either church completely, but you can probably tell which one I am facing when I pray each quarter. Read Also: When and how active management makes sense - interview with Ken Kam of Marketocracy (Covestor) The Paradox of Dumb Money (TRB) The Success Equation (Amazon) Bernard Baruch‚Äôs 10 Rules of Investing (TRB) Chasing the Cat (TRB)
Fung Global InstituteIn his latest piece, Nomura economist Richard Koo examines the recent crash in the Japanese stock market, which has tumbled 15% since just May 22. "The prevailing view is that we are finally seeing a reaction to this excessively rapid move, and if so this is a healthy correction," he begins. "The reality, however, may be somewhat more complicated." Koo argues that the primary driver of the big upward move in the Japanese Nikkei 225 so far has been hedge funds outside of Japan who were previously betting against the euro. Then, last September, when the ECB introduced a new monetary stimulus program that undermined the fear in the market that the euro could collapse, those international hedge funds had to find something else to bet against. Koo writes (emphasis added): Late last year, the Abe government announced that aggressive monetary accommodation would be one of the pillars of its three-pronged economic policy. Overseas investors responded by closing out their positions in the euro and redeploying those funds in Japan, where they drove the yen lower and pushed stocks higher. I suspect that only a handful of the overseas investors who led this shift from the euro into the yen understood there was no reason why quantitative easing should work when private demand for funds was negligible. Had they understood this, they would not have behaved in the way they did.† Japanese investors, Koo asserts, did understand this. That's why they didn't join in when international hedge funds started buying up Japanese stocks in size (emphasis added): Whereas overseas investors responded to Abenomics by selling the yen and buying Japanese stocks, Japanese institutional investors initially refused to join in, choosing instead to stay in the bond market.  Because of that decision, long-term interest rates did not rise. That reassured investors inside and outside Japan who were selling the yen and buying Japanese equities, giving added impetus to the trend. However, Japanese investors' initial aversion to the long Nikkei trade couldn't last forever. "Even though the moves in the equity and forex markets were led by overseas investors with little knowledge of Japan," says Koo, "the resulting improvement in sentiment and the extensive media coverage of inflation prospects forced domestic institutional investors to begin selling their bonds as a hedge." That selling caused yields and volatility to rise in the Japanese government bond market, which spooked investors and arguably sparked the big unwind in the Nikkei trade. But why should rising bond yields be such a bad thing for the "Abenomics" story of experimental economic stimulus in Japan that international investors have placed their faith in by running up Japanese stocks? After all, higher yields reflect rising inflation, which is one of the main goals of Abenomics. The problem, according to Koo, is that a rise in inflation before the Japanese economy starts to recover is bad news: The Bank of Japan began buying longer-term JGBs on 4 April with the goal of pushing yields down across the curve. The outcome of those purchases, however, has been exactly the opposite of what Governor Haruhiko Kuroda intended, with long-term bond yields moving higher in response. Domestic mortgage rates have increased for two consecutive months as a result. This is clearly an unfavorable rise in rates driven by concerns of inflation, as opposed to a favorable rise prompted by a recovery in the real economy and progress in achieving full employment. The more the market senses the BOJís determination to generate inflation at any cost, the more interest ratesóand particularly longer-term ratesówill rise, adversely impacting not only Japanís economy but also the financial positions of banks and the government... Since there is no increase in bank earnings from additional lending activity and no increase in tax revenues from a recovering economy, the financial positions of banks and the government deteriorate in direct proportion to the rise in long-term interest rates. In other words, rising rates aren't bad if they reflect a strengthening economy, because the losses banks will sustain in their bond portfolios will be offset by increased revenues owing to a stronger economy in general. Again, though, Koo does not think that is the scenario unfolding in Japan right now: Only 22% of people surveyed by the Nikkei felt Japanís economy is actually recovering (27 May 2013), suggesting relatively few have benefited from Abenomicsí honeymoon thus far.  Moreover, an increase in long-term rates at a time when 78% of the population is not personally experiencing a recovery is most likely a ìbadî rise in rates, and the authorities need to address it very carefully, keeping a close eye on private demand for funds.† All of this means that the big upward thrust in Japanese equities that began late last year has likely come to an end, at least for now. "The recent upheaval in the JGB market signals an end to the virtuous cycle that pushed stock prices steadily higher," says Koo. "This means further gains in equities will require stronger corporate earnings and a recovery in the economy."
Northern Ireland welcomes the G8 conference this year, and local councils are doing everything in their power to hide economic problems in the the region, Reuters'¬†Cathal McNaughtan reported yesterday. They've spent 2 million pounds obscuring derelict or abandoned buildings with billboards, demolishing some eyesores, and ¬†installing picturesque security fences.¬† One town, Belcoo, has taken an unorthodox strategy of implying prosperity: In the one-street town of Belcoo, the changes are merely cosmetic. At a former butcher's shop, stickers applied to the windows show a packed meat counter and give the impression that¬†business¬†is booming. Here are six pictures from Reuters of the interesting measures Northern Ireland is taking to look pretty for the G8. Security fencing covered with scenic pictures around an unfinished building site in Irvinestown, Northern Ireland: Reuters Reuters Reuters Reuters Reuters ¬† Reuters
Wall Street Journal screengrabFrancesco GarzarelliGoldman Sachs recently declared that the sell-off in Treasury bonds is for real. They're convinced bond prices are heading lower, which means interest rates are heading higher. "Our bond valuation models (Sudoku and GS Curve) and a separate study of the determinants of US Treasury yields which explicitly accounts for the impact of QE, policy ëguidanceí, uncertainty and the European crisis indicate that intermediate yields should be trading in the upper half of this range, given the decline in systemic risks and the brightening US economic outlook," wrote Goldman's Francesco Garzarelli and Silvia Ardagna in their note. "Our model estimates (and, consistently, our forecasts) show 10-year Treasuries reaching 2.5% in the second half of this year, with German Bunds trading at 1.75%." Garzarelli spoke with the WSJ's Katie Martin about the call. He noted that interest rates won't rise straight up, but that there would be "speed bumps" along the way.† This is why Goldman recently told clients to take some profits on their short positions. Nevertheless, Garzarelli continues to be convinced that rates are heading higher. Here's the video via WSJ.com: 
Library of CongressThe United States is studying the potential risk from online payment mechanisms like PayPal and Bitcoin, a top US Federal Reserve official told an international conference on Monday. Some bankers have expressed worries that newer players in the online marketplace could have negative implications for the financial system. "We have been talking... with banking organisations over the last year or two, trying more carefully to understand what the concerns are with these new payment mechanisms," Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen said. But she denied the widespread view that such players operate completely unregulated, saying the United States has a stronger regulatory environment than many are aware of, especially in the area of consumer protection. "In point of fact, at least in the United States, there are regulations that apply to PayPal and other payment providers," she told the annual International Monetary Conference in China's financial hub of Shanghai. PayPal is the online payments arm of US Internet retail giant eBay. "But that said, this is very much on our radar screen and we are carefully trying to identify where the risks are," Yellen added. Last month, US authorities seized the accounts of one Bitcoin digital currency exchange operator, Mutum Sigillum LCC, claiming it was functioning as an "unlicensed money service business". Bitcoins were launched in 2009 in the wake of the global financial crisis by an anonymous programmer who wanted to create a currency independent of any central bank or financial institution. Some officials fear the virtual currency can be used by criminals or terrorists, or could be vulnerable to hackers. The United States last month launched a money laundering probe against a digital currency operator, Costa Rica-based Liberty Reserve, which allegedly handled huge amounts of money outside the control of national governments. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Instagram/danderozIt's that time of the year. ¬†Wall Street summer internships have begun. ¬† Congratulations on scoring the position. ¬†Now it's time make sure you impress your peers and superiors with an appropriate internship wardrobe.¬† Don't worry. We're here to help! Our thanks go out to The Fine Young Gentleman, one of our very favorite men's fashion bloggers, whom we consulted for tips and suggestions. "As an intern the whole idea is to not rock the boat. With many of the internships the whole idea is to kick ass, take names, get a job and not rock the boat. Key phrase being ‚Äònot rock the boat,‚Äô" says the Fine Young Gentleman, "It is not that you want to blend in with all of the others, it is just that you don‚Äôt want to stick out like a three legged dog." "I think it is pretty simple, err on the conservative side of things and realize there may be more do‚Äôs than don‚Äôts at your company. You need to look and act professional and you need to act in a manner consistent with the firm which you are interning at."¬†
The domain of Bitcoin exchange wm-center has been shut down by the government (as first observed by BitcoinByte and FT's Stephen Foley). Here's what you'll see right now if you go to¬†http://www.wm-center.com/index.html: WM-Center This comes on the heels of the¬†feds shutting down Liberty Reserve, the charges against which contained language seemingly directed at all other digital currencies, including Bitcoin. UPDATE: wm-center was named as one of the sites seized in the Liberty Reserve case: DOJ
ReutersThousands of dead pigs were found floating down the Huangpu River in China earlier this year. Turns out overcrowding on small-scale farms was the "underlying factor," according to Reuters. We've previously discussed that Chinese farming is very inefficient. In fact, South Korean farmers are 40 times more productive than their Chinese counterparts.¬† China's land ownership law is one of the main reasons farming has stayed small-scale. And land reform is one of the top priorities of the Xi-Li leadership, though this is largely to boost urbanization and growth. We drew on images from Reuters to show how overcrowded both small farms and larger operations in China are.
We recently brought you 13 maps from MapsontheWeb, the most addictive Tumblr in the world. They post four or five every day. So here are 11 more that we love. MapsontheWeb MapsontheWeb MapsontheWeb MapsontheWeb MapsontheWeb MapsontheWeb MapsontheWeb MapsontheWeb MapsontheWeb MapsontheWeb MapsontheWeb
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderA well-endowed company was kind enough to invite me to speak at a conference in Arizona recently. They put me up at the Ritz Carlton Dove Mountain, which is a luxury resort built in the middle of a desert. They gave me the key to my "room," which I soon discovered was actually a suite. I didn't get to spend too much time in the suite, unfortunately, because the conference was great. But I certainly enjoyed the time I did spend there!
mdanys/FlickrGleacher terminated its intern class a mere two business days before the starry-eyed novices were set to start work, Business Insider has learned. Harsh, but perhaps not surprising. Times have been tough for Gleacher &amp; Co. as of late. Today the firm¬†hired a¬†chief restructuring officer and closed its investment-banking business. Earlier this year the small investment bank¬†laid off¬†about 160 employees when it shuttered its underperforming fixed-income unit. It's a sector that's hurting at all Wall Street banks, especially smaller sized firms like Gleacher, where losses since 2009 total almost $200 million. Then of course there‚Äôs the firm‚Äôs namesake, Eric Gleacher, who¬†quit as chairman¬†in January amid a compensation controversy with the board. At some point, all of that trickles down to the little guy. According to one would-be intern, an analyst from Gleacher delivered the bad news on Thursday morning. ‚ÄúThis was like three days before the internship, you‚Äôve got to be s----ing me,‚Äù the source said. ‚ÄúThat tells you the severity of the situation. They can‚Äôt spend the extra $100,000 for six interns for 10 weeks?‚Äù the intern said. ‚ÄúSomething must be going on that‚Äôs really bad.‚Äù Last week, Gleacher announced a reverse stock split of its shares at a ratio of 1-for-20. At its May 23 annual meeting, shareholders were¬†set to discuss¬†a spate of least-bad options: liquidate the company, try to find a buyer, or find ways to re-invest cash reserves. A day later Gleacher¬†fired¬†its CEO and COO after the firm‚Äôs biggest shareholder, MatlinPatterson Global Advisors, took control of the board. The source said he took it as a warning sign when a fellow intern heard nothing but radio silence from Gleacher weeks before the start date. The source‚Äôs contacts on The Street also cautioned about the potential danger of taking an internship at the firm, warning, ‚ÄúI‚Äôm getting a lot of resumes from Gleacher. Make sure you‚Äôre covered.‚Äù But Gleacher assured the intern that despite its fixed-income shut down, other businesses within the firm were safe. That is, until today. The spurned intern blamed the firm‚Äôs woes on that failed fixed-income gambit, once Gleacher‚Äôs biggest business. ‚ÄúGoldman‚Äôs fixed-income kills it. Gleacher‚Äôs doesn‚Äôt. That was a very big distraction for the business,‚Äù the source said. Though the firm wasn‚Äôt contractually obligated to pay the interns, the source said he was provided some consolation money for the whole mishap. So there‚Äôs that. Gleacher did not respond for comment.
The U.S. shale energy revolution is making its mark on global financial markets. Since the beginning of last year, the U.S. has steadily pared its petroleum trade deficit, ramping up exports and tapering back imports of oil. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergThis has arguably had the effect of recoupling the dollar with the global growth cycle, which BofA Merrill Lynch strategist David Woo says should reduce macroeconomic volatility in the U.S. going forward. With the U.S. supplying the world with more and more oil, it may seem logical to assume that the shale revolution will keep downward pressure on oil prices going forward. "The rapid development of US shale has led some in the market to be concerned that we are now moving into an oversupplied position on supply [in global oil markets]," says Barclays oil analyst Rahim Karim and his team in their latest report.† However, the Barclays team disputes this. "Going forward, our expectation is that the rate of growth from US shale oil will slow and when combined with slower growth than previously anticipated from other key production areas including Iraq there will be minimal growth in OPEC spare capacity," write the Barclays analysts. They provide the chart below and the following explanation: Growth in US shale oil entirely offset by lower expectations from Iraq: The graph below demonstrates how expectations of supply growth have changed from 2011 to the present day. With the development of US Shale, the EIA has lifted its expectations for incremental supply growth from 2011 by a total of 0.6mb/d over the 2013-16 period. However, on a global basis this uplift has been more than offset by our lower expectations of growth from Iraq down by almost 2mb/d over the same period. EIA, Barclays Research If the Barclays projections play out, increased oil supply may not be as big of a downward price pressure as many think. "As a result we anticipate the Brent oil price remaining above $100/bl in the medium and longer term," writes the Barclays team. "In turn this should support continued capital expenditure in the industry, hence our continued preference globally for Oil Services."
The M-PMI is highly correlated with the y/y growth rate in S&amp;P 500 revenues. The latter rose only 1.3% during the first quarter. The purchasing managers‚Äô index suggests that this growth rate might have worsened rather than improved during the second quarter, when I expected to see an improvement. I monitor the consensus expectations for S&amp;P 500 revenues and earnings per share based on weekly data compiled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Their revenue estimates for 2013 and 2014 have dropped sharply during the first four weeks of May to new lows. They now expect revenues to grow 2.2% this year and 4.4% next year. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Mood-Altering Drugs. (1) All Fed all the time. (2) Making the pain go away. (3) Lockhart giveth what Williams taketh away. (4) M-PMI is bad news for revenues. (5) Industry analysts curbing their enthusiasm for revenues. (6) Yet forward earnings rising to new highs. (7) Industry analysts see more upside to margins. (8) Focus on overweight-rated Financials. (More for subscribers.)
Municipal bond expert Cate Long wrote a pretty serious take down of bank analyst Meredith Whitney's new book on state economies in Reuters this morning. Whitney detractors, today is your lucky day. The analyst is probably as well known for her accurate (negative) forecast of Citibank as she is for her still inaccurate call that state municipal bonds are about to collapse. Her newest book, 'The Fate of the States: the New Geography of American Prosperity' is another call to arms on the latter point. Long, however, argues that Whitney is about a year too late to be arguing that the states are going down the toilet (except for maybe Puerto Rico). From Reuters: Whitneyís book may be a useful intro for those who have not followed the fiscal struggles of state and local governments over the past five years. At 206 pages itís a fast read. But I would encourage readers to view it as the opinion of one analyst who has often been wrong. In one memorable case, the Nevada State Treasurer Kate Marshall went after Whitney for her errors in calculating the liabilities of her state. Yikes. For the full piece, head to Reuters&gt;
wikimedia commonsBritish gas producer iGas PLC has completed a study claiming there's enough natural gas in northwest England to power the UK for about 60 years. The story was first reported by the FT's Guy Chazan.¬† Of course, it's just a single corporation making this estimate, so we should take it with a grain of salt. iGas studied a 300 square mile area near Liverpool and found the shale deposits contained up to 170 trillion cubic feet of natgas. The UK currently consumes 3.3 tcf annually, according to the EIA. The "most likely" scenario from the study is that the deposits contain 120 tcf, while the lowest estimate stood at 15.1 tcf. iGas hopes to begin drilling in the area by Q4 this year. At the same time, there's been growing opposition in the UK to fracking, a common form of extracting gas from shale.¬†
Another awesome interview from leading Wall Street career site, OneWire. This time, CEO Skiddy von Stade sits down with Glenn Hutchins Co-Founder of Silver Lake Partners. It's a part of OneWire's ongoing web series, Open Door. In the interview, Hutchins offers some solid career advice and discusses how he and his partners launched the largest technology-focused private equity firm in the world, which today manages approximately $23 billion in assets under management and committed capital. After earning both a JD and MBA from Harvard, Hutchins graduated without a full time job‚Äîdrawing some concern from both his professors and peers. Though he received offers from investment banks and consulting firms, Hutchins wanted something different. After engaging in contract work for nearly a year, he joined forces with entrepreneur Thomas H. Lee, who was restarting what became one of the first private equity firms in the country. Hutchins‚Äô impressive career has spanned both the public and private sectors, and in 1999, he co-founded the investment firm Silver Lake Partners. The idea behind Silver Lake was to establish a firm that specialized in private equity investments in large-cap technology and technology-enabled companies. Hutchins explains, ‚ÄúTechnology grows much faster than the rest of the economy and is‚Ä¶less susceptible to cyclical effects. And so you can invest with a tailwind‚Ä¶and you didn‚Äôt need as much leverage to be successful.‚Äù Since its founding, Silver Lake has invested in a number of successful technology and tech-enabled companies, including Skype, Alibaba, Avago, Seagate, and Instinet. Today, the firm is actively pursuing a highly publicized takeover of Dell. In the interview, Hutchins explains his firm‚Äôs hands-on approach to business, ‚ÄúMost private equity firms are the equivalent of the coxswain in the crew race. They sit at the back of the boat and shout, ‚ÄòStroke! Stroke!‚Äô And we get in the boat and row.‚Äù ¬† 
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderThere has been a lot of excitement recently about the proliferation of electronic currencies and payment tools. There's Bitcoin, for example, an electronic currency. There's Square, a tool that allows just about anyone to accept credit card payments. There's PayPal, a way to transfer funds between parties and pay for things. And there are all the old electronic payment tools, too ó namely credit and debit cards. And thank goodness for that. Because the other technology we use to pay for things ó cash ó is just plain awful. I made the mistake of using cash to pay for my lunch yesterday, and I immediately regretted it. Why? Because after taking one dirty piece of green paper out of my wallet and handing it to the cashier, I got several dirty pieces of green paper back ó along with a fistful of heavy metal disks: Henry Blodget / Business Insider I had to stuff the many pieces of dirty green paper into my wallet, which made it even fatter, and and I had to dump the heavy metal disks in my shoulder bag, which made it even heavier. And that exchange reminded me why cash is a horrible payment mechanism and why the complete transition to digital payments just can't come soon enough. How is cash lousy? †Let us count the ways ... * It's dirty.†Except for the crisp new bills that you occasionally get from cash machines, most cash is grimy and limp. It's also probably disease and bacteria ridden. Given the stuff they find on cell phones, I don't even want to know what's on cash. * It smells. Old cash also has a distinct odor. You definitely don't want to know where it comes from (At least I don't). * It can be lost, destroyed, or stolen.† The other day, someone stuck his (?) hand into my wallet and walked off with at least $200. (Yes, silly me for leaving my wallet in a place where someone could stick their hand into it, but once the cash was gone, it was gone. There was no credit-card company or bank to call to stop payment.) I've destroyed the value of countless bills over the years by ripping them in half or running them through the washing machine. And I've probably dropped a fortune onto the street. * It's heavy. Small numbers of bills are easy to transport, but try carrying enough around to pay for a car or a family vacation. And you had better lug your excess coins back to the bank regularly, or they'll get so heavy that you'll break your back trying to exchange them for usable currency. * It can't be used to pay for big-ticket items. Ever paid for a car in cash? A house? A big family vacation? Of course not. Even if you were lucky enough to make it to the point of sale without getting mugged, it would be highly impractical and weird to do this. And the vendor probably wouldn't accept the cash if you did. They'd figure you stole it. * It's clumsy, slow, and imprecise.†Before you can pay for something in cash, you have to count the cash. Then, when you hand the cash to the cashier, the cashier has to count it. Then the cashier has to count out the amount of "change" you get. Then you have to count that. Think of all that wasted time. Think of the errors. Think of the lost productivity! * It leaves you with no record of your purchase. Yes, fine, anonymity in payments occasionally has its virtues. But unless you're buying drugs or sex, or trying to conceal some other inconvenient purchasing habit, it's generally helpful to have a record of your spending. There's no record with cash, though. It just goes "poof." * It's only good in your country. Any time you leave the country, you have to use your cash to buy some other kind of cash. That transaction costs money. It's also a pain in the neck. And when you get back from your trip, you'll inevitably have some now worthless cash left over. It will weigh down your wallet or bag until you finally store it some place and forget about it. * It's expensive. Cash machines now regularly charge $2-$3 to sell you some cash. Unless you buy vast sums of cash, which increases the risk of loss, destruction, or theft, this is a high fee on a percentage basis. Also, it costs the U.S. taxpayer $800 million to print cash every year. And it costs companies hundreds of millions of dollars more to truck it around. Compare these problems to the promise of digital payment tools: Bring on the digital payment revolution!
Home prices (including distressed sales) climbed 12.1% year-over-year in April, according to Corelogic's latest home price report. Home prices were up 3.2% month-over-month in April.¬† This was the biggest year-over-year increase since February 2006, and the 14th straight monthly increase. Moreover, on an annual basis, home prices were up in all 50 states for the second straight month.¬† Ex-distressed sales home prices were up 11.9% on the year, and 3% on the month.¬† "Increasing demand for new and existing homes, coupled with low inventory, has created a virtuous cycle for price gains, most clearly seen in the Western states with year-over-year gains of 20 percent or more," said Mark Fleming, CoreLogic CEO in a press release.¬† Here some details from the report: Here's a look at home prices from January 2002 on:Business Insider
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergThe Japanese Nikkei 225 has corrected a staggering 15% since just May 22. As a result, one of the world's hottest stock markets is suddenly flirting with "bear market" territory ñ defined as a 20% price decline from the market's previous peak. In his latest note to clients, Deutsche Bank strategist Makoto Yamashita cautions that "we do not see a bottom," and says it is "natural to assume that the Nikkei Average will correct for several months." The good news, says Yamashita, is that a range-bound Nikkei will help to reduce the volatility in the Japanese government bond market that has been cause for concern in the marketplace as of late. Yamashita writes: The Nikkei Average fell to below 14,000, and we do not see a bottom. It has fallen 17% from the recent peak of 15,942 on 23 May. This is an extremely large fall for just under two weeks. Many investors likely still see this as a healthy correction since the Nikkei Average had nearly doubled over the six months since November when it was above 8,000. That said, normally we would expect it to take some time for the Nikkei Average to pass 16,000. Japanese stocks also saw a large correction after rising sharply in 2005-2006. The Nikkei Average rose from below 12,000 in August 2005 to above 17,500 in April 2006 due to expectations of progress in structural reforms after then-PM Junichiro Koizumi called a snap election on postal reform. The index corrected sharply in June 2006 to around 14,000 then rose to above 17,500 through end- 2006. However, it took eight months for stocks to exceed their previous peak after bottoming.  It is therefore natural to assume that the Nikkei Average will correct for several months even if it eventually rises above 16,000. Stocks could rebound faster this time given volatility is higher, but at least in June we see little chance of another rise in share prices. A range-bound Nikkei Average would help to reduce volatility in JGBs. Gross potential buying pressure will become relatively large compared to coupon-bearing JGB issuance with supply/demand in June impacted by the BoJ's more flexible JGB purchases and large JGB redemptions. Conditions for a fall JGB yield volatility are coming together. UST yields remain a source of volatility, but we believe the risk of a sharp rise in yields has diminished given the deterioration in yesterday's US ISM index. The Nikkei finally stanched the bleeding today ñ rising 2.1% ñ but if Yamashita is correct, the wild price gains that have made Japanese stocks one of the hottest trades of 2013 may pause for a while going forward.
Getty ImagesYesterday was the deadline for investors to redeem their money from embattled Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund SAC Capital as the government's insider trading investigation intensifies. ¬† According to Bloomberg News, the fund could now be left with less than $1 billion in outsider money. It was estimated investors would request to pull out $3.5 billion in addition to the $1.7 billion that was marked in the first quarter for redemptions. ¬† SAC manages about $15 billion. ¬†Of that, $9 billion belongs to founder Steve Cohen and employees and the rest is outsider money. ¬† Those outside investor redemptions are a big deal and not just to SAC. ¬† The New York Times' Peter Lattman explains why Wall Street would be freaking out:¬† But a major reason for the intense interest on Wall Street, senior brokerage firm officials say, is a commercial one: SAC has generated billions of dollars in revenues for brokerage firms over the years. Several executives ‚Äî all citing client confidentiality ‚Äî said that the prospect of a severely diminished SAC would hurt their bottom line, which has created fear and anxiety on trading desks across Wall Street. ‚ÄúThis is going to have a significant impact to the Street, full stop,‚Äù said a senior executive at a brokerage firm that counts SAC as one of its largest clients...¬† The brokerage business relies on trading volume. Brokers earn¬†commission for each share traded. ¬†For example, a broker could make anywhere from half a penny per share or five cents a share. ¬† A hedge fund behemoth like SAC Capital is a huge player. ¬†Back in 2006,¬†the Wall Street Journal reported that SAC's trading accounted for 2%¬†of all of the stock market activity. It's easy to see how they would be a desired client on the Street. ¬†
APIran oil production reached a 25-year low as its main export destinations seek to avoid the effect of sanctions, the FT's Javier Blas reports. May production is expected to come in at just 2.6 million barrels a day, a level not seen since the end of the Iraq-Iran war. They'd been pumping 3.5 mb/d prior to the sanctions. Blas reports countries who did not sever ties with Iran faced punitive action from the U.S. and E.U. like losing insurance on refineries. Read the full story on FT.com &gt;
Late last week, a post by Avik Roy on possible increases to health insurance premiums in California went viral. So viral, in fact, that it was apparently Forbes' fastest ever to reach a million page views: This is @forbes' fastest post to hit 1M pageviews. Cheers, @avik!forbes.com/sites/theapothÖ It's pretty easy to see why. The headline asserts that the Affordable Care Act could drive individual insurance premiums in California up by as much as 146%, and contrasts with a report from California that showed that premiums would rise by less than what was expected.† While people don't understand the law particularly well, they do understand what they pay for health insurance.† One problem: That number, which was picked up by Drudge Report, The Daily Caller, and others, is misleading. Ezra Klein and Jonathan Cohn have more detailed explanations of why that is, but here it is in brief. In order to get that figure, Roy went to a website called†eHealthInsurance.com, a marketplace for individual health insurance, and compared the cheapest plans there to the projected plans that will be offered in California's insurance exchange, a competitive marketplace for individuals to buy coverage.  However, the plans he uses to compare offer what's called a "teaser rate" ó one based on age without any knowledge of medical history. If you have pre-existing conditions, that premium goes up or you're ineligible. So the $92 median plan he comes up with isn't one that very many people would ever actually pay. A number of reviews found by Rick Ungar at Forbes of that particular provider said that quoted rates were nowhere near what people actually pay.† So if you're a 25-year-old in perfect health with a perfect medical history who doesn't get health insurance from your employer, but has an income in excess of $45,000 if single, or $96,000 with a family of four (there are subsidies available for people up to four times the federal poverty rate), you†might be able to get that premium for a year, after which the provider is perfectly free to boost rates.† And while this theoretical person and other young, healthy, and wealthy people might see higher premiums, older, poorer, and sicker people will likely pay lower premiums than they do now.† There's a tradeoff there that's worth debating, whether those transfers are worthwhile†or efficient. Premiums for some people are going to rise due to Obamacare.†Some might rise a lot, provoking "rate-shock." California's figures, predicting anywhere between a 26% decrease in premiums to a 2% increase might be too low. But rates won't swing 100 plus percent in the other direction. And higher rates for some is exactly what the law is designed to create.†

Ray RiveraDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the topics about which he is chatting about with traders. The top topic: The Tuesday Streak. Morning, US futures are starting slightly better today, as we go for 21 straight up Tuesdays for the DJIA.¬† This mirrors the slight bounce in EU Markets, as the DAX is near unchanged, but EU fins are jumping 1% as yields are dropping in the PIIGs.¬†¬† The biggest overseas mover was the Nikkei, which jumped over 2% - it‚Äôs biggest one-day advance in 3 weeks ‚Äì after being hit for over 1.6% in the morning session.¬†¬† Most of the upside is attributed to Abe‚Äôs comments ahead of his presentation to Parliament tomorrow about Pension caps on Equity Investments being lifted.¬† Shanghai got hit for over 1% on light news flow as the street awaits a large data-dump from them Friday night ‚Äì Aussie‚Äôs market added 25bp, despite the RBA standing pat on Interest Rates (Dovish outlook).¬† Will we make it to 21? We'll see.
REUTERS/Murad Sezer Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's Panasonic Corp said it will boost domestic production of washing machines and other appliances to half of its overall output from about a third should the yen weaken to 105 to the dollar, reversing a strategy of shifting production offshore. At 105 yen or lower it will cost less for Panasonic to build appliances it sells in Japan rather than importing them from factories abroad, Kazunori Takami, the head of the appliance business, said at a press briefing in Osaka. Since becoming president of Panasonic a year ago, Kazuhiko Tsuga has made profitability a priority for Takami and other division leaders. A weakening yen has already spurred some foreign companies including Apple Inc to raise prices as the currency shift eats away at their income in Japan. (Reporting by Reiji Murai; Writing by Tim Kelly; Editing by Stephen Coates) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The word of the moment is "taper" as in "when will the Fed begin to taper its monthly purchases of bonds as part of quantitative easing." The question is consuming market talk, as interest rates and the dollar rise. There's an increasingly widespread belief that the taper begins sometime this year. It may even be in the next few months. From Bloomberg: While Goldman Sachsís forecast remains for Fed officials to wait until December before slowing their $85 billion of monthly asset purchases, Hatzius said yesterday that so-called tapering could occur sooner. ìA September tapering is certainly possible, I think that is going to depend on the data,î Hatzius said in a Bloomberg Television interview at Goldman Sachsís Global Macro Conference in London. Since this question is likely data dependent, the attention paid to the next few job numbers will be significant. The next one, of course, comes this Friday.
Things started out stronger, but as the morning has gone on, markets are weakening. Japan had a big rally night, and by and large in Europe, things are still green, but markets are off their highs of the day. In the US, futures have turned slightly red. Here's a look at an intraday chart of Germany's DAX stock index, via Bloomberg. Bloomberg
Albert Edwards, the famously bearish strategist at Societe Generale, has a new note that goes to town on U.K. chancellor George Osborne, who, as part of his budget plan unveiled in March, proposed that the U.K. get more involved in subsidizing mortgages. Edwards has decided that he can no longer keep his mouth shut on the matter, and must lash out at this horribly misguided policy. George Osborne in his March budget proposed an unusually misguided piece of government interference in the housing market. The measures will see government provide lenders with a guarantee of up to 20 per cent of a mortgage in an attempt to encourage lending to borrowers with small deposits. This means that if a borrower defaults on a loan, the taxpayer will be liable for a proportion of the losses. Numerous critics of George Osborne's scheme range from the IMF to the outgoing Bank of England Governor Mervyn King, who said "We do not want what the US has, which is a government-guaranteed mortgage market, and they are desperately trying to find a way out of that position." He goes on to express the viewpoint that house prices are already way too high. He points to this chart, showing how high U.K. prices are relative to other countries. SocGen In the end, he says, this is mere indentured servitude of the youth, under a crushing burden of debt: What makes me genuinely really angry is that burdening our children with more debt (on top of their student loans) to buy ridiculously expensive houses is seen as a solution to the problem of excessively expensive housing. I would have thought the lack of purchasing power should contribute to house prices declining or stagnating (relative to incomes), hence becoming affordable once again. You would have thought that George Osborne would be ideologically predisposed to a market solution, wouldn't you? But apparently not. Why are houses too expensive in the UK? Too much debt. So what is George Osborne's solution for first time buyers unable to afford housing? Why, arrange for a government guaranteed scheme to burden our young people with even more debt! Why don't we call this policy by the name it really is, namely the indentured servitude of our young people. (HT: Katie Martin)
Here is a statement on the supposed need to "mitigate the natural ups and downs of economic cycles" through central bank intervention using "new tools". The alternative would result in the economy and of course the markets becoming too volatile. Eric Petroff (Investopedia): - Left to their own devices, free market economies tend to be volatile as a result of individual fear and greed, which emerges during periods of instability. History is rife with examples of financial booms and busts but, through trial and error, economic systems have evolved along the way. But looking at the early part of the 21st century, governments not only regulate economies, but also use various tools to mitigate the natural ups and downs of economic cycles. The Bank of Japan has been applying some of those "various tools", and aggressively adding more tools lately (see post). Here is the result. So much for mitigating "the natural ups and downs". 
REUTERS / Mike HutchingsOscar Pistorius in front of the magistrate, June 4th, 2013.PRETORIA (Reuters) - A South African judge on Tuesday postponed until August 19 the murder trial of global athletics star Oscar Pistorius, who has been charged with shooting dead his girlfriend on Valentine's Day. Pistorius, 26, had to make his way through a scrum of photographers and reporters as he made his first formal public appearance since his release on bail in February. The double amputee athlete, nicknamed "Blade Runner" for the prosthetics he uses in competition, has admitted shooting Reeva Steenkamp, 29, four times through a locked bathroom door on February 14 at his home in an affluent Pretoria community. In pre-trial testimony, his lawyers told the court the shooting was a tragic mistake and Pistorius was acting in self-defense against what he thought was an intruder. Prosecutors accuse him of premeditated murder for firing into the door, hitting Steenkamp in the head, hip and arm. The judge postponed the case after the athlete's lawyers asked for more time to prepare. Pistorius was one of the stars of the 2012 Olympics and Paralympics in London, carrying South Africa's flag at the closing ceremonies for the Games. His arrest and subsequent murder charge shocked millions around the world as he was seen as a symbol of triumph over adversity. APReeva Steenkamp and Oscar Pistorius.In South Africa, he was a hero for both black and white people, transcending the racial divides that persist 19 years after the end of apartheid. Pistorius has mostly kept out of the public eye since he secured bail. Media reported that in April he partied at a nightclub in a Johannesburg suburb after his bail conditions were relaxed the previous month. The Pistorius camp said the matter was blown out of proportion and he went out for a quiet dinner with friends after spending weeks in the house with family. South Africa does not have trial by jury so pre-trial media coverage is seldom deemed to be prejudicial. (Reporting by Jon Herskovitz; Editing by Pravin Char)
Wikimedia CommonsAIG headquartersDETROIT (Reuters) - American International Group Incand General Motors Cowill rejoin the S&amp;P 500 index this week, marking a key milestone in the recovery of two companies that needed billions of dollars to stay afloat during the financial crisis. AIG and GM will rejoin the S&amp;P 500 after the stock market closes on Thursday, the S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices said on Monday. The move represents a symbolic victory for AIG and GM, which have taken steps to overhaul their operations and return to viability since their near-collapse about five years ago. Companies in this index are considered leaders in their industry, the S&amp;P said on its website. Returning to the index will help boost shares, particularly important in the case of GM, which is still partially owned by the U.S. government. AIG received $182 billion in U.S. funds, while GM took $50 billion during the economic recession in 2008 and 2009. The bailouts were highly controversial, but government officials said they were necessary to stabilize the weak U.S. economy. In December, the U.S. Treasury Department announced it was selling its remaining stake in AIG. Taxpayers made a profit on the AIG bailout, a once unthinkable outcome. Later that month, the U.S. Treasury said it would exit GM by early 2014. But unlike AIG's case, the U.S. government is likely to lose billions of dollars on GM. GM will replace H. J. Heinz Co, while AIG will replace Baker Hughes Inc, the S&amp;P said. (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman; Editing by Stephen Coates) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
mrlins on flickrAnd suddenly, the market feels normal again. After two weeks of seeing the Nikkei plunge, and the dollar weaken and so forth, we're having a day that feels like the good old days. Japan rallied 2%, which is a lot given how far futures had fallen in pre-Tuesday action. And Europe is up across the board (Italy up over 1%. Germany up 0.8%). The dollar is strengthening (back to over 100 against the yen). And gold is falling. Also emerging market currencies are solid. It may be temporary, but, for now, things feel stable.
