Getty ImagesThis is probably the economic story of the season. Americans shopped online like crazy this year, and it overwhelmed the package delivery infrastructure. From WSJ: Companies from Amazon.com Inc. to Kohl's Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., ¬†having promised to deliver items before Dec. 25, missed some delivery target dates. ¬†United Parcel Service Inc. determined late Tuesday that it wouldn't deliver some goods in time for Christmas, as a spike in last-minute shopping overwhelmed its system. "The volume of air packages in the UPS system did exceed capacity as demand was much greater than our forecast," a UPS spokeswoman said. ... Although weather, Web glitches and late deliveries from manufacturers played a part in late deliveries, the sheer unanticipated volume of holiday buying this year may have been the biggest problem, retail analysts said. Meanwhile, there have been several stories about physical retail having a rough season, with stores being forced to offer massive discounts to get folks in the door. So it seems the big e-commerce boom is both an indicator of a strong economy and a sign that e-commerce is just clobbering physical shopping at a level that nobody anticipated.
DogecoinWow. Such hack. Today, Christmas Day, someone stole at least 11 million from Dogewallet.com, one of the largest sites used by individuals holding Dogecoin. Dogecoin is a cryptocurrency that serves as an alternative to Bitcoin. It's†grown increasingly popular over the last few weeks thanks to its use in "tipping" for good deeds performed by individuals advancing the cause of digital currencies. The Dogewallet hackers' haul would be worth $6,600 at current prices, were stolen, according to the Dogecoin public transaction ledger. The folks at Dogewallet have sworn to compensate all individuals affected, and reddit users have testified that they've started receiving funds. Here's the main part of the message currently posted from the Dogewallet folks on their site, which they've suspended:† "...the attack originated from the hacker gaining access to our filesystem and modifying the send/receive page to send to a static address. We're currently reviewing logs for information. The site is shut down right now.†"We're incredibly sorry to all users who lost funds from the attack. Please use offline wallets as online wallets are meant for new users who aren't using them as a storage of coins. Offline wallets are more safe and secure than any online wallet due to possible attacks that can originate from anyone, anywhere." Dogecoin prices were actually up slightly Wednesday night, according to Coinmarketcap.
The Chinese government has built an ornate new building that looks like the Kremlin, per this video found on Shanghaiist. China View, YouTube You might think this is a little interesting, but whatever, governments frequently have ornate buildings. But the real surprise comes on the inside. It's not ornate at all. In fact the interior is almost hysterically austere. Here's a few images: YouTube YouTube Here's the video: 
en.wikipedia.orgWhile one may criticize now-ex CFTC commissioner Bart Chilton for years and years of sound and fury signifying nothing, countless promises of regulatory enforcement (all of which fell short of the target) and finally putting an end to precious metals manipulation only for the world to discover that while every other asset class is manipulated (involving such individuals as¬†JPM's chief currency dealer), gold and silver are exempt, one must admit the former regulator does have a way wtih words (and of course haircuts). Sure enough, Chilton's most memorable parting gift will not be something he did, but rather what he said. William Cohan¬†memorializes his parting message: "As we long suspected, Wall Street continues to use every trick in its playbook to do whatever it can to eviscerate numerous post-financial-crisis rules. The arsenal includes high-powered lobbyists who outnumber lawmakers 10-to-1; $1,000-an-hour letter-writing lawyers who gain strength from negotiating over arcana; and the occasional hoodwinking of a president whose knowledge of the ways of finance are close to nil." Chilton's take home message: ‚ÄúThe lesson for me is: The financial sector is so powerful that they will roll things back over time,‚Äù Chilton says. ‚ÄúThe Wall Street firms have tremendous influence, and they can impact policy to a greater degree than any one regulator or a small group of regulators can.‚Äù Well, one sure can't say that those 30 years he spent in Washington of which nearly 7 years at the CFTC were lost on the¬†Alexander Godunov¬†lookalike: at least he figured out who runs the show. Of course, finding a way how to prevent the financial sector from being in charge, i.e., doing his job, would have been preferable, but close enough for government work. What are Chilton's other laments? Why being underfunded of course. Because if the CFTC only had more money, all would have been fixed. In fiscal 2013, for example, the CFTC requested funding of $308 million and got only $195 million ($10 million less than the previous year) despite many new responsibilities. ‚ÄúThere are crooks who are getting away with crimes because we don‚Äôt have the resources to go after them,‚Äù Chilton says. The SEC has a similar discrepancy between its appropriation and what it needs to fulfill legal mandates. With its regulators overwhelmed and underfunded, Wall Street firms then move to the relentless negotiation stage. ‚ÄúAs you try to deal with the regulatory agency,‚Äù he says of Wall Street, ‚Äúthe first thing you do is you say, ‚ÄòWell, would you exempt us?‚Äô And when that doesn‚Äôt work, you try to ameliorate your regulation.‚Äù If that strategy fails, the industry defaults to litigation. Sounds like the generic justification anyone would make for failing at their job. But it could be just us. Some more deep thoughts from Bart Chilton: Chilton said he has noticed one additional tactic that Wall Street has been employing lately: stalling or thwarting nominees to regulatory agencies. The nomination of Timothy Massad, the U.S. Treasury Department official who managed the Troubled Asset Relief Program, to replace Gary Gensler as CFTC chairman came late in the year and a confirmation vote has now been delayed, probably to February 2014. That means further Dodd-Frank rule-writing and enforcement could be delayed, too, because only two of five commissioners will be seated and they would both have to agree to get anything done. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a gift to Wall Street,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThis is what they‚Äôve been trying to do. They‚Äôve been trying to stop Dodd-Frank.‚Äù Chilton knows why Wall Street always seems to win. Financial-industry executives contribute more money ‚Äúin every election, than any other sector, and they have made more profits in every single quarter since the fall of 2008 when many of them helped crash the economy,‚Äù he explains. ‚ÄúSo while the rest of the nation is suffering still, and trying to get a leg up to get out of the ditch, the financial sector didn‚Äôt miss a beat.‚Äù In case you didn‚Äôt catch Chilton‚Äôs meaning, here is the shorter version: Unless and until Wall Street‚Äôs disproportionate ability to bully Washington is curtailed, the rest of us will be held hostage to its agenda. For those interested in the fuller version, Chilton has been writing a book. Its working title: ‚ÄúTheft.‚Äù Oh, we caught Chilton's meaning all right. What we are more interested in is how long after Theft is a monetary failure will the silver-haired regulator apply for a job at Goldman, JPMorgan or Citi. Because one thing¬†we¬†have learned observing Washington apparatchiks, is that in addition to sharing deep thoughts on occasions (if unmatched by actions), hypocrisy also happens to be a recurring theme. For those who yearn for one last dose of Chilton's deep thoughts, here is his most recent speech, "The Boss", appropriately enough before the Society of American Business Editors and Writers, New York City. After all, the man has to get in with the publishing lobby next.
www.rferl.orgOnce a high-flyer, Tajik businessman Zayd Saidov's life has unraveled with startling rapidity. Nobody ever accused Zayd Saidov of being perfect, but nobody envisioned the influential Tajik tycoon's rapid fall from grace either. For years the 55-year-old Saidov enjoyed cozy relations with Tajikistan's ruling elite, even rising to the post of industry minister. He presided over a vast business empire involved in construction, textiles, jewelry, and real estate. And he was long seen as an opposition figure who worked well with President Emomali Rahmon. But after he announced his intention to set up the New Tajikistan party this spring -- just months before a carefully managed presidential election -- Saidov's world unraveled. After he went public with his plans for the new, unregistered, opposition party in March, he was arrested in Dushanbe in May and charged with multiple crimes. On December 25, Saidov was sentenced to 26 years' imprisonment after being convicted of financial fraud, polygamy, and sexual relations with a minor. Saidov's supporters say the case against him was politically motivated. Daler Ghufronov, the editor-in-chief of "Elita," a magazine that focuses on prominent Tajik personalities, believes there can be no doubt that the authorities saw Saidov as a threat. "Saidov wanted reforms but the government is not ready for reforms, so authorities opted for an easy way out: to eliminate reformists," he says. " In my opinion, this is the main reason behind Saidov's arrest." Rumors Of Infidelity For others, however, that would be the convenient conclusion to reach when it comes to the high-profile figure who was no stranger to controversy. His home life invited scrutiny, and prompted whispers of infidelity. Among the charges faced by Saidov, who was born without one arm, was that he raped an underage girl and fathered a child with her. Court-ordered DNA tests proved no links between Saidov and the child. Prosecutors also accused Saidov of simultaneously living with four wives and 10 children that he fathered with them. Saidov has said he has one legal wife but provides material support for at least two former wives and their children. The Anticorruption Agency says Saidov's construction firm -- which is involved in high-profile projects in the capital, Dusanbe, -- stole more than $8 million from the state. Revenue authorities say Saidov's construction business owes more than $5 million in unpaid taxes. So is Saidov an opposition figure who had become too much of a threat to the powers that be? Not really, according to Dushanbe-based political analyst and author Parviz Mullojonov. "Saidov has never been a real opposition figure despite his links to the Islamic Revival Party," he says. "First and foremost, he was a businessman who pursued his commercial interests." In 1999, when Tajik authorities and the Islamist-led opposition agreed to form a power-sharing government following the country's five-year civil war, Saidov was chosen to head the Industry Affairs Committee. The position eventually became a ministerial slot, which Saidov held until 2007. Worked Well With Rahmon Although technically he was part of the opposition's 30-percent share of government posts, he worked well with the authorities, and frequently joined President Rahmon on trips and in meetings. After his dismissal, his business ventures expanded. These included the "Dushanbe Plaza," which boasts the tallest building in Tajikistan. Addressing the idea that Saidov was taken down because of his potential to lead the opposition, Mullojonov points to a competing theory, according to which Saidov honed his image as an opposition figure in order to protect himself from prosecution. "Some people believe Saidov already knew there were serious threats against him and possibly his business interests," Mullojonov says. "They say Saidov abruptly announced plans about the [New Tajikistan] party to make the case look politically motivated. But we don't have any proof to support such a theory." Mullojonov suggests that the Tajik government would have been mistaken in seeing Saidov as a threat, or as someone who answered to Russia. (The businessman reportedly visited Moscow shortly before he announced the launching of the New Tajikistan party.) "He might have political ambitions but he would never go against the government," he says. "Many people even believed that New Tajikistan actually was a government-backed project to gain support for the administration in regions where people† traditionally support the opposition." There have been numerous cases in Tajikistan in which successful entrepreneurs lost their businesses after dubious charges were brought against them. Ghufronov suggests that this is what happened with Saidov as well. "The authorities are killing two birds with one bullet," he says. "They are eliminating a political threat and taking over his commercial interests."
AP Photo/LM OteroSteve Lipsky demonstrates how his well water ignites when he puts a flame to the flowing well spigot outside his family's home in rural Parker County near Weatherford, Texas. WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The¬†U.S. Environmental Protection Agency¬†was criticized in an internal report for dropping charges that Range Resources Corp was polluting drinking water while "fracking" for natural gas. Range is using the hydraulic¬†fracturing¬†technique in¬†Parker County,¬†Texas¬†where one homeowner complained in August 2010 that he could set his drinking water on fire. Six U.S. senators had asked the agency's internal watchdog - the¬†Office of the Inspector General¬†- to evaluate a 2012 decision to drop an order that had forced Range to provide drinking water to residents, and stop contamination. The EPA withdrew its order in March of that year after legal action by the company. That decision was in line with its own rules, the report said, but the agency should have been tougher with the company, and more critical of the data it used. Tests of 20 wells near the drilling site should have been conducted more broadly, and the EPA should have gone to greater lengths to make sure it trusted Range's data. The report issued a number of formal recommendations for the agency which the EPA has already agreed to act upon them. "The EPA agreed with and provided corrective actions that address our recommendations. All recommendations are resolved with corrective actions underway," the report said. In fracking, companies blast large amounts of sand and water laced with chemicals underground to free oil and natural gas. Environmentalists say this can pollute water and air. The report, which was released late on Tuesday, was dated December 20. (Reporting by Douwe Miedema; Editing by Leslie Gevirtz)
Flickr/daspunktPeople are drinking less but doing so more harmfully. Policymakers want higher prices--causing a headache for the booze industry BY DAY tourists flock to Plaza de Espa√±a in central Madrid to snap photos beside the sculpture of Miguel de Cervantes, author of "Don Quixote". By night a newer facet of Spanish culture is on display: loitering groups of young people downing plastic bottles of whisky and vodka mixed with Fanta Lemon. The ground is littered with empties. Nearby, three young men help a friend vomiting on the pavement. Such carousing was once rare in Spain. A Mediterranean drinking culture prevailed in which alcohol was taken only with food. That is changing. In Spain and many other rich countries, alcohol intake is becoming a bigger problem--for some groups. Overall, the global consumption of alcohol has been stable since 1990, according to the World Health Organisation. Around half of the planet's population is teetotal. But those who drink alcohol do so more hazardously. Policymakers are looking for ways to address this. A new and much-watched experiment in Scotland, for example, involves setting a minimum price for each unit of alcohol. Individual consumption peaked in Spain in 1975 but young people are increasingly indulging in the botell√≥n, (literally "big bottle"): drinking outdoors to get drunk. In France, another country with traditionally moderate drinking patterns, a similar trend is emerging. In the past three years hospital admissions from alcohol abuse have risen 30% there, to 400,000 a year. Bingeing is so common that in July it gained an official name, beuverie express. Across much of the rich world, many people (not just the young) are drinking greater quantities in a single session. Responsible drinkers pose little risk to others. But the growth in hazardous drinking habits has far-reaching implications. Deaths from the overuse of alcohol rose from 750,000 in 1990 to 2.5m in 2011, nearly 4% of all fatalities worldwide. Alcohol causes long-term ill-health, but even a single binge can end in hospital: in Britain, for example, such admissions doubled in 2003-10. It is not only drunks who suffer from their excess. Booze contributes to a third of all deaths on Europe's roads each year and stokes abuse and violence. It features in almost all public-order offences in Ireland; up to 80% of Australian police work is alcohol- and drug-related; across the European Union, it is linked to 65% of domestic violence and 40% of murders. When lower output and higher social costs are taken into account, alcohol costs Europe and America hundreds of billions a year, up to 1.5% of GDP by some estimates. The industry has introduced some modest schemes to encourage responsible drinking. Governments have stepped up education campaigns; most restrict the sale of alcohol in some regard, by licensing premises, setting opening hours and banning purchases by children. But all that is largely outweighed by another factor: health campaigners say that in many countries booze is simply too cheap. Increasingly alcohol is drunk at home, rather than in bars or restaurants, and is often deeply discounted. In Britain and Ireland supermarkets frequently sell drinks at or below cost, to lure in customers: cheap strong cider means a Scotsman can reach his recommended weekly drinking limit of 21 units (210ml of pure alcohol)for just ¬£4.62 ($7.50); an Irishwoman can buy her 14 units for EUR6.30 ($8.70). The trend is spreading. Walmart, an American chain, recently started selling beer almost at cost. The cheaper the liquor, the more people drink. That is not just bar-room wisdom. A 2009 paper in Addiction, a public health journal, reviewed 112 distinct studies of changes in alcohol taxes and found an unambiguous link. This suggested that a 10% price rise in prices would cut consumption by around 5%. Two groups are particularly price sensitive. Heavy drinkers tend to trade down and seek out cheaper booze to maintain their intake. They drink at home and are likely to die early of alcohol-related illness. Such topers account for a large share of consumption: in Scotland 80% of alcohol is drunk by 30% of boozers. A second category is young and underage merrymakers who often have low or minimal income. They cannot afford to drink as much when prices rise. Most government initiatives on prices have been tentative. In 1998 Germany introduced a so-called "apple-juice law": in places where booze is consumed, at least one alcohol-free beverage must cost less than the cheapest alcoholic one. This does not deal with domestic consumption, though, which accounts for most hazardous drinking. In 2014 Britain will introduce a ban on selling alcohol at below cost price, but this will affect less than 1% of all booze on sale, according to the Sheffield Alcohol Research Group, a British academic consortium. Alcohol duties in some tax-thirsty European countries have been rising for a decade but wine and cider are both taxed by volume, not just strength. That means a sweet wine with 6% alcohol bears the same tax as a riesling with 10%. More convincing are the efforts of several Canadian provinces, which have a floor price for a unit of each type of alcohol: the stronger a drink, the more it costs. When this policy was introduced in British Columbia in 2002, with an average 10% price increase, an immediate, substantial and significant reduction in wholly alcohol-attributable deaths followed, says Tim Stockwell of the province's University of Victoria. The longer-term effect is striking too. Over the 2002-09 period, figures show a 32% drop in such deaths. In Saskatchewan a similar price rise in 2010 was associated with an 8.4% drop in drinking. Scotland is raising the bar. In May 2012 its devolved parliament passed an ambitious bill to introduce a minimum unit price of 50p. This would affect the price of 60% of booze on sale: a 70cl bottle of Tesco Value Vodka would rise by around ¬£4.50, to around ¬£13, but classy Smirnoff by only 13p, according to Scottish government calculations. The Scotch Whisky Association (SWA), a trade body, has challenged the legislation, which was due to come into force in 2013. It would breach European law and could affect exports, says its spokeswoman, Rosemary Gallagher. The SWA lost the case in Scotland's highest civil court, but its appeal will be heard in February. If it loses again, it may appeal to London or to Europe. Five continental wine-producing nations have joined the fight against Scotland's law. Bulgaria, France, Italy, Portugal and Spain say it is illegal and could hurt their own drinks industries. Cheap plonk (mostly foreign) would suffer more than pricey whisky (mostly domestic), they say. What happens in Scotland will affect policy elsewhere; other governments are watching the legal battle with interest. One house of the Swiss parliament has already voted for a minimum price though the other voted against. New Zealand is considering a bill. The British government pulled back from an earlier plan to introduce a nationwide floor price but may reconsider its policy if Scotland's proves successful; some English councils are trying to introduce minimum pricing rules locally. The Irish cabinet is discussing a similar notion but awaits the Scots' verdict. For all their reputation as a nation of soaks, Scots actually constitute a small market. The SWA says its big concern is other countries introducing similar bills if the Scottish legislation goes ahead. The real fear is of "contagion", agrees Martin McKee of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine: "Scotland shows Europe what is possible." Just as bans on indoor smoking spread rapidly from country to country, the Scottish decision on the price of booze could raise drink prices all over the world. A sobering thought in the festive season. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Netflix In June of 1983, ìTrading Placesî was released in theaters. It remains the greatest Wall Street movie ever made. Thirty years later, most regard it as part of the canon of American comedies, having launched, revived, or defined the careers of many of its cast and crew. We also argue it's the greatest Christmas movie ever made. If you havenít seen it yet, you should probably repent to your local pastor, then log into your nearest Netflix account. But as a courtesy, weíll summarize the plot: Two septuagenarian brothers who run a successful commodities brokerage in Philadelphia get into an argument about whether a personís character is shaped by nature or nurture. They decide to make a bet: They will frame a top executive (Dan Aykroyd) with drug possession and soliciting a prostitute (Jamie Lee Curtis). Meanwhile, they will promote a street beggar (Eddie Murphy) to the executiveís former role. They will then observe whether the beggar and executive still act like their old selves.  To celebrate the 30-year anniversary of this film, we reached out to some key principals behind the film ó sadly, many are no longer with us, though their collective experience at the time of the shooting helped make the movie as good as it was ó to talk to us about how it got made and what it means today.  JOHN LANDIS, director:†I got a call from Jeff Katzenberg, the executive at Paramount at that time, asking if I would read a script called ëBlack And White,í which I thought was a lousy title ó ironically black or white was something I did with Michael Jackson several years later. It was very old fashioned, a social comedy very much like the screwball stuff done in the '30s. Hollywood made a series of movies ó Preston Sturges, Frank Capra ó these comedies that really were about society at the time, and were fairly political, but wonderfully funny and with strong characters. TIM HARRIS, co-writer: There were these two brothers who were both doctors who I would play tennis with on a fairly regular basis, and they were incredibly irritating to play with because they had a major sibling rivalry going, all the time about everything. So they always had to be separated, you know, play on the other team. And they were very wealthy but also incredibly cheap ó we would play on public courts where it was like a couple of bucks for four guys for an hour. And theyíd have arguments about who was coming up with 50 cents, and I think one very hot day I played with them, and I just came home and was fed up with it, and I just thought, ëGod, I just donít want to play with these people, theyíre awful.í And I had the idea of them betting on a nature/nurture situation with somebody in their company, and Iíd pretty much worked out the whole thing, and went over to Herschelís and told it to him and he thought it was fabulous. At the time I was living in what was a fairly run-down part of L.A. near Fairfax Avenue that was completely crime ridden. I lived in an apartment complex where everybody either had a gun held to their head or been raped or whatever ó just a very criminal environment ó that was part of it I suppose as well. NetflixEddie Murphy as homeless Billy Ray Valentine HERSCHEL WEINGROD, co-writer:†The truth is that the only way that a screenplay can really be judged, by definition, isn't on the page, it's by watching the film that was made from it. It can certainly be read and enjoyed, but the inescapable fact is that it was written in order to be seen. LANDIS:†The script was developed for Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor. And when I was sent the script, Richard Pryor, unfortunately, had his accident where he burnt himself rather badly, and they sent it to me and said, ëWhat do you think?í ë48 Hoursí hadn't come out yet, but theyíd previewed it, and Eddie Murphy had previewed very well, and they thought, ëAh this kid's going to be a star,í So they said, ëWhat do you think about Eddie Murphy playing the Billy Ray Valentine part?í And I of course said, ëWhoís Eddie Murphy?í Because I didnít watch Saturday Night Live since John [Belushi] had died. So I read the script, and I saw Eddie's tapes, and went to New York and met with Eddie. And they wanted ó I won't tell you who they wanted me to cast ó but the studio was very unhappy with almost everybody they wanted me to cast. John Belushi had died, and [Dan Aykroydís] movie without John was called ëDr. Detroit,í which was a failure, so conventional wisdom was that Aykroyd without Belushi was like Abbott without Costello, and that his career was over. Now I knew Danny well, having worked with him, and I knew Danny was a fine actor, and he could easily play this guy. Danny, he's an actor: You tell him what you want, and he delivers. And I thought he'd be wonderful. So he reduced his price quite a bit, and I got him, so I had Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy, and they were upset because Danny hadn't ó his last couple of pictures hadn't done well, and Eddie was still an unknown really. ë48 Hoursí came out while we were shooting... NetflixDan Aykroyd as Louis Winthorpe III, after losing his job and girlfriend. The only character in the script I had a problem with, because she's such a fantasy, is Ophelia. The classic ëhooker with a heart of goldí †ó she's such a fantasy that I thought how the fuck am I going to get away with this?í I had met Jamie Lee Curtis ó I shot a documentary on horror stuff, and she was host of it ó she was a ëscream queen.í And I met her and she was so funny and smart and sexy, and I thought, ëOh she'd be terrific.í † She had just made ëHalloween 2,í for which she'd been paid I think a $1 million, and we paid her probably $70,000. When I cast her the studio went nuts. I was called into the head of the studioís office and he said, ëThis woman's a B-movie actress,í and I said, ëNot after this movie!í But boy they really didn't like the fact that I cast Danny and Jamie. JAMIE LEE CURTIS, ëOpheliaí: I had made a conscious effort to actually stop doing [horror movies]. I knew that that would not allow me a full career ó that at a certain point it would get limiting. And I met John when he was doing a short ó a documentary about horror movie trailers from the '50s called ëComing Soon.í He needed somebody to narrate, so he hired me for that; that's when I first met him. And during the course of that, he must have had some sense that I would be good. So he handed me that part. He clearly went against every one of the studios. The casting people all thought he was crazy, and he single-handedly changed the course of my life by giving me that part. NetflixJamie Lee Curtis as Ophelia, a prostitute; Denholm Elliott as Coleman, Winthorpe's butler; and Murphy and Aykroyd as they plot revenge. HARRIS: The casting is very much to Johnís credit, he just cast the movie brilliantly, and all the minor parts really shine. Itís actually one of those movies, where it changes a lot of the participantsí careers forever. It got Jamie Lee Curtis out of horror movies. It got Herschel and I to a much more prominent level. The two old guys ó it completely revived their careers. It catapulted everybodyís careers in a positive way. LANDIS: The most remarkable story, casting wise: I thought, ëWell, I need someone who was a movie star in the ë40s, who has never really played a villain, and I was thinking, ëHey, what about Don Ameche?í And the casting woman said, ëDon Amecheís dead.í And I said, ëI don't think so, I would know if Don Ameche is dead.í And so we called the Screen Actorís Guild, and his residuals were being sent to his son in Phoenix, Arizona. And I thought, ëWell that's not a good sign.í And he didn't have an agent, and I thought, ëShit, goddamm, who else could we get?í when one of the †secretaries said, ëI heard you're looking for Don Ameche.í We said ëYa.í She said, ëI see him all the time walking on San Vicente in Santa Monica.í NetflixRalph Bellamy and Don Ameche as the Duke brothers, hatching their scheme. So I called information, and I said, ëI there a Don or D Ameche on San Vicente in Santa Monica?í And there was! So I called him. And you know he has that unmistakable voice, and you realize, Don was a huge star, in the late í30s, definitely a big star in the í40s ó I mean he was Alexander Graham Bell for chrissakes! ó a major star in the í50s, Broadway star, radio star, movie star, television star. And I said, ëMr. Ameche?í ëYeeessss...?í ëMy name is John Landis, Iím with Paramount Studios, and I'm making a film and Iíd like you to consider a part.í So I had a script sent over. ëAnd could you please read this and can you come in tomorrow?í And he said, ëYes.í Would you like us to send a car?í He said, ëNo no, I can drive.í I said, ëGreat.í And he came in and was prepared to read for me. I was so shocked. I said ëYou don't have to read for me.í He hadn't made a movie in 14 years, he'd been doing dinner theater. While we were shooting later in Philadelphia ó he was so wonderful ó I said, ëDon, may I ask a question? How come you haven't worked in 14 years?í And he said, ëWell, nobody called!í The great upshot of this is after Trading Places came out, the next movie he was in was ëCocoon,í †which he won an Oscar for. He never stopped working the rest of his life ó he made like 10 more movies ó I worked with him twice more. HARRIS: [Philadelphia] has a connection with the founding of the country, the constitution, everybody being entitled to the pursuit of happiness, all the idealism thatís built into America. I thought it was a good way to highlight that, especially in the opening scene when you see the legless black guy. NetflixThe Heritage Club scene was actually shot inside an abandoned New York City building. LANDIS: A lot of the interiors that are supposed to be in Philadelphia are actually New York. The exterior and interior of Duke Brothers, the big floor, was Philadelphia. But the offices were upstairs at the Park Avenue Armory, they had these beautiful Stanford White interiors. In fact, there was a real Gilbert Stuart portrait of George Washington ó I said ëCan I use that?í [The Heritage Club location] was an amazing find. It's an old Chamber of Commerce building, it was empty ó a spectacular room, we just put the table in there. LANDIS: It took me a long time just to understand the con, what was going on. It's just so funny, it's so long ago now, the chicanery is so much more arcane now. At least in ëTrading Places,í at the end of the day, there was the commodity. HARRIS: I asked some people who were in that business to kind of walk me me through it, and when I was writing it ó it was like studying for an exam, you know, you kind of understand it the day of, and then 24 hours later you canít remember how anything works. NetflixMurphy and Aykroyd go long orange juice futures. LANDIS: It was actually in the script that the final scenes were in Chicago at the commodities exchange, but they would not let us shoot there. We really had tried every which way to get permission to shoot there, and I think truthfully once they saw we had a clear understanding of how it worked, it was like, ëNo!í So we ended up at the commodities exchange in New York which was at the World Trade Center at the time. About 90% [of the floor traders in the movie] were actual traders, and a great deal of it I shot during actual trading hours. They were into it ó if anything they were less rough. I was quite taken aback at how physically rough it was ó they really elbowed one another ... It was like a contact sport. They were basically trading like 8 or 9 hours a day, so we were in there for 3 to 4 hours on two days between opening and closing, and we got a lot done. I actually shot some ëguerrillaí stuff there that I used in the movie. I also remember that the commodities market, it was in one of the towers at the World Trade Center on the 50th or 60th floor ó no windows, and 3 to 4 stories high. That was very strange, to take an elevator up 50 or 60 floors, and then you thought you were underground. WEINGROD: The film got extremely good reviews from the major film critics at the time - Vincent Canby at the New York Times; Siskel &amp; Ebert, both on their TV show and in the Chicago Sun-Times; Richard Schicikel in Time Magazine; Sheila Benson in the L.A. Times; even People magazine. There were some negative reviews as well, but we were hopeful that the good ones would help audiences go and see the film. They did and, fortunately, they liked it a lot. I just looked it up, and it was the fourth highest grossing film in a year where ëReturn Of The Jedií and ëTootsieí were first and second. HARRIS: It didnít have a huge opening, but it just kept going and going and going. †I had a call from an agent saying he was getting calls asking if it was true that the whole film had actually been the producer Aaron Russoís idea, and that heíd just paid us to write it. Then I got another call saying Jeffrey Katzenberg at Paramount was going around saying it had all been his idea. Being by then already a Hollywood cynic, I knew it was a hit, because people were trying to steal credit for it already. CURTIS: Some people will pretend they knew it. Paramount maybe felt like it had something. In the middle of the process, you never anticipate that itís going to be off the charts. ... It's just a really funny movie. ëMotherfucker? Moi?í WEINGROD: If you write an original screenplay that becomes a commercial and critical success, you suddenly have a certain amount of legitimacy. No one's risking their job hiring you to do a writing assignment or even making another of your original scripts because you've already made money for a studio; you're in the club, as it were. ... Hiring writers whose films have been successful helps mitigate this essential absurdity of the screenwriting process for the buyer. LANDIS: Movies have a life of their own. HARRIS: It was probably just on the cusp of it becoming incredibly trendy to be absolutely rich. We played into that at the end of film: Tdream is achieved because these two guys, a black guy and white guy, both got filthy rich. I think thatís why the film is successful ó itís a satire on greed and social conventions, but it had a satisfying happy ending. They both got what they wanted. NetflixRandolph Duke reacts to getting a margin call. CURTIS: Old money still has the power ó nothing has changed. Itís shocking to me, but itís not surprising. Itís shocking that you would think people would be held accountable, but I just don't think that's reality today. LANDIS: The sheer enormity of the dishonesty that's rampant in the banking industry and securities business ... This all extends from deregulation ó just the cowardice and corruption of the Senate, it's just ... you can't exaggerate this stuff. You really can't. HARRIS: Somebody came up to me recently and said it was because of ëTrading Placesí that heíd gone into the world of finance, which is like a huge paradigm turn ó that a film written as satire of that world ends up inspiring somebody to go into that world and make a lot of money. But it just shows how times change since that film was made. WEINGROD: Bernard Madoff, former chairman of NASDAQ, had been investigated by the SEC since 1999, but the scandal didn't break until 2008. 'Nuff said. HARRIS: The movies that have come out about Wall Street, none of them are funny. Theyíre all melodramas, they take themselves very seriously. I think theyíre constrained, they have to be automatically liberal in their disapproval of it. I was sort of disappointed with that. ëTrading Placesí is a sort of backward-looking film, that owed more to the films of the í40s and í50s than it does to anything that was going on at the time it was made. ëBrewsterís Millionsí was a social comedy about money and greed and what it does to people, but after that, there were no films like that being made anymore. Comedies were being directed at a specific groups of kids ó teenagers ó and that seemed to take over a great deal.† I think itís probably an American thing ó theyíre not interested in looking at that stuff particularly. I donít think Hollywood is either ó itís awkward for them. The important people in Hollywood are really, really, filthy rich. They donít want to see that made fun of particularly, I donít think. CURTIS: Comedy is all about character and conflict. Thereís certainly enough conflict in banking, and there are certainly enough characters. Someone who's clever could come up with a good hook. NetflixElliott and Murphy celebrate their triumph with some friends.
REUTERS/Arvind KejriwalSupporters of the Aam Aadmi party cheer on leader Arvind Kejriwal. Two exceptional seeds were planted this year in India, the world‚Äôs largest democracy. Each one is worth watching in 2014 for its potential global impact. The first is the coming to power of the Aam Aadmi (Common Man) party in the state that includes the capital, New Delhi. Led by anti-corruption crusader Arvind Kejriwal, the party was hatched only a year ago on the premise that India‚Äôs poor would actually vote for clean government rather than trade their ballots for handouts. After a surprising showing in a Dec. 4 election, Mr. Kejriwal was able to form a minority government that took office this week. In defiance of pundits, his party defeated a three-time chief minister and booted out the ruling Congress party. If he can make progress in curbing graft for the state‚Äôs 15 million people, he plans to field candidates in national elections next year. The other seed is a new law that creates an independent national agency to investigate and prosecute civil servants and elected officials for corruption. The measure was first proposed in 2011 after mass protests against corruption. But India‚Äôs lawmakers only passed the bill in the wake of Kejriwal‚Äôs electoral insurgency. None of the world‚Äôs big and largely poor nations, such as India, China, and Brazil, has found a way to beat endemic corruption. Chinese leader Xi Jinping warns that corruption could ‚Äúruin the country.‚Äù But after a year at the helm, he has achieved little. One reason is that the Communist Party crushes popular impulses for fair and honest government. In democratic India, such impulses can find fertile ground. Traditional Indian politics, however, often divides people by category ‚Äì caste, language, region, or religion. Once in power, politicians rely on patronage and the doling of benefits in order to stay in office. The Common Man Party avoids that trap with a unifying theme of the need for transparency and accountability in government. After the 2011 protests, Kejriwal tried to work outside politics and alongside social activist Anna Hazare, whose protest fasts sparked a nascent movement against corruption. But when lawmakers failed to enact the proposed bill, Kejriwal decided to build a party. He tapped into India‚Äôs rising middle class and disenchanted poor who know the world‚Äôs second most-populous nation can succeed only with better governance. ‚ÄúIt is not me who will be the chief minister,‚Äù he said this week. ‚ÄúIt will be Delhi‚Äôs common man who will be the chief minister. Alone I cannot do anything.‚Äù He and his youthful cabinet began well by not residing in official mansions or being escorted by security caravans. As a former tax official, he has seen government close up. As a trained engineer, he plans to methodically root out graft. He is up against a culture that often prevents the spread of local success stories. Still, after two decades of looser state controls over the economy and increased ties to the world, Indians may be ready to shed the stereotype of a country that runs on greasy palms and monied politics. The average age is in the mid-20s. Income per capita has doubled in the past decade. Anti-corruption reform in India will still need private activists and a watchdog media. And the two major parties, Congress and the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, must adjust to this new popular sentiment. If India can make this critical course correction, it just might serve as a model for China and similar nations and show that prosperity is best built on a foundation of openness, freedom, and honesty. Related stories
highlimitzz via FlickrWASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî Mailing a letter is about to get a little more expensive. Regulators on Tuesday approved a temporary price hike of 3 cents for a first-class stamp, bringing the charge to 49 cents a letter in an effort to help the Postal Service recover from severe mail decreases brought on by the 2008 economic downturn. Many consumers won't feel the price increase immediately. Forever stamps, good for first-class postage whatever the future rate, can be purchased at the lower price until the new rate is effective Jan. 26. The higher rate will last no more than two years, allowing the Postal Service to recoup $2.8 billion in losses. By a 2-1 vote, the independent Postal Regulatory Commission rejected a request to make the price hike permanent, though inflation over the next 24 months may make it so. The surcharge "will last just long enough to recover the loss," Commission Chairman Ruth Y. Goldway said. Bulk mail, periodicals and package service rates will rise 6 percent, a decision that drew immediate consternation from the mail industry. Its groups have opposed any price increase beyond the current 1.7 percent rate of inflation, saying charities using mass mailings and bookstores competing with online retailer Amazon would be among those who suffer. Greeting card companies also have criticized the plans. "This is a counterproductive decision," said Mary G. Berner, president of the Association of Magazine Media. "It will drive more customers away from using the Postal Service and will have ripple effects through our economy ‚Äî hurting consumers, forcing layoffs and impacting businesses." Berner said her organization will consider appealing the decision before the U.S. Court of Appeals. For consumers who have cut back on their use of mail for correspondence, the rate increase may have little impact on their pocketbooks. "I don't know a whole lot of people who truly, with the exception of packages, really use snail mail anymore," said Kristin Johnson, a Green Bay, Wis., resident who was shopping in downtown Anchorage, Alaska, while visiting relatives and friends. "It's just so rare that I actually mail anything at this point." The Postal Service is an independent agency that does not depend on tax money for its operations but is subject to congressional control. Under federal law, it can't raise prices more than the rate of inflation without approval from the commission. The service says it lost $5 billion in the last fiscal year and has been trying to get Congress to pass legislation to help with its financial woes, including an end to Saturday mail delivery and reduced payments on retiree health benefits. The figures through Sept. 30 were actually an improvement for the agency from a $15.9 billion loss in 2012. The post office has struggled for years with declining mail volume as a result of growing Internet use and a 2006 congressional requirement that it make annual $5.6 billion payments to cover expected health care costs for future retirees. It has defaulted on three of those payments. The regulators Tuesday stopped short of making the price increases permanent, saying the Postal Service had conflated losses it suffered as a result of Internet competition with business lost because of the Great Recession. They ordered the agency to develop a plan to phase out the higher rates once the lost revenue is recouped. It's unclear where that would take rates for first-class postage in 2016. The regular, inflation-adjusted price would have been 47 cents next year. If inflation rates average 2 percent over the next two years, regulators could deem 49 cents an acceptable price going forward. The Postal Service has only twice lowered the price of a stamp: in the mid-19th century from 3 cents to 2 cents, and again after the end of World War I. In neither case was the higher price the result of a temporary authorization. The new price of a postcard stamp, raised by a penny to 34 cents in November, also is effective next month. The last price increase for stamps was in January, when the cost of sending a letter rose by a penny to 46 cents. A post card also increased by one cent to 33 cents. __ Associated Press reporter Mark Thiessen in Anchorage, Alaska, contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Mohamed Abd El GhanyA man walks near debris after an explosion near a security building in Egypt's Nile Delta city of Mansoura on Dec. 24, 2013.CAIRO (Reuters) - If there was any hope left that the generals who overthrew Egypt's elected president six months ago might ease the state's crackdown on dissent, a suicide bomb that ripped through a police station on Tuesday may have destroyed it. The most populous Arab country enters the new year with deeper divisions in its society and more bloodshed on its streets than at any point in its modern history. The prospects for democracy appear bleaker with every bomb blast and arrest. The army-backed government says it will shepherd Egypt back to democracy and points out that the state defeated Islamist militants when they last launched waves of attacks in the 1990s. But this time around there are more weapons and harder ideologies, and a bitter example of a failed democratic experiment to toughen positions on all sides. Like much of the recent violence, the bombing that killed 16 people on Tuesday was bloodier than all but the very worst attacks of the 1990s. The tactic of using suicide bombers to hit security forces is more familiar to Iraq or Syria than to Egypt, which for all its history of militancy is one of the few big Arab states that has never experienced a modern civil war. The blast was claimed by a Sinai Peninsula-based Islamist militant group, Ansar Bayt al-Maqdis, which has stepped up attacks on government targets in recent months and narrowly failed to assassinate the interior minister in September. The blast set off mob attacks on the shops, homes and vehicles of people believed to be supporters of ousted President Mohamed Mursi's Muslim Brotherhood. "After the funerals of the martyrs, angry people smashed my pharmacy and my brother's shop," said Mohamed Heikal, a Brotherhood activist in the city of Mansoura, scene of Tuesday's bombing. "We had nothing to do with what happened," he said, condemning the bombing as a terrorist attack. With much of the public feverishly backing the government's calls to uproot the Brotherhood, talk of political accommodation is non-existent. Analysts see little or no chances of a political deal to stabilize a nation in turmoil since Hosni Mubarak's downfall in 2011. Signs of escalation abound. Mursi and other top Brotherhood leaders have been ordered to stand trial on charges that could lead to their execution. They are charged with conspiring with foreigners to carry out a terrorist plot against Egypt. The government of Prime Minister Hazem el-Beblawi on Wednesday formally designated the Brotherhood as a terrorist organization, accusing it of carrying out the attack. Meanwhile, the frequency of attacks suggests militants are taking centre stage within the Islamist movement, further diminishing hopes of the state reaching an accommodation with moderates and strengthening the hawks in government. One consequence could be to increase the chances of General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi becoming Egypt's next president. The army chief who deposed Mursi after mass protests against Brotherhood rule has yet to decide whether to run, an army source said. Though Sisi would almost certainly win were he to run, the source said he is hesitant partly due to the mountain of problems awaiting Egypt's next head of state. But analysts say the increase in violence makes it less likely Sisi and those around him would trust anyone else with the reins of power. "The more dire the situation becomes, the less a second tier civilian candidate will be seen able to take charge of the situation," said Michael Wahid Hanna, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation, a New York-based think-tank. "This type of deterioration will increase pressure on Sisi to run." MOST SOLDIERS KILLED SINCE '73 WAR Crowds that gathered outside the compound hit in Tuesday's attack to show support for the security forces brandished Sisi's portrait. Egypt has experienced violence for decades including the assassination of President Anwar Sadat by an Islamist gunman in 1981, and attacks on tourist sites in the 1990s that hurt the economy. But civil bloodshed has now reached an unprecedented level. A conservative estimate puts the overall death toll since Mursi's fall at well over 1,500. Most of those killed were Mursi supporters, including hundreds gunned down when the security forces cleared a protest vigil outside a Cairo mosque. At least 350 members of the security forces have also been killed in bombings and shootings since Mursi's downfall. The state has declared them martyrs of a war on terror. The army has suffered its greatest casualties since the 1973 Middle East war, most of them in the Sinai Peninsula, where the most heavily armed Islamists are based. The blood spilt since Mursi's downfall has evoked comparisons with Algeria - a country pitched into a decade of civil war in 1991 when its army aborted an experiment with democracy because Islamists looked set to win power. Some dismiss that comparison, arguing the past failures of militants in Egypt should dissuade Islamists from following that path. But as the attacks spread beyond the Sinai Peninsula, the risks are compounded by the large quantities of weapons smuggled in from neighboring Libya since the downfall of Muammar Gaddafi in 2011, in a war that saw his arsenals looted by rebels. "This particular incident shows that the group operating in Mansoura is very organized, well equipped and capable," said Mustapha Kamel Al-Sayid, a professor of political science at Cairo University, referring to the Nile Valley town where Tuesday's attack took place. "This points to the difficulty of any kind of compromise between the government and Islamist groups." FREEDOMS IN DANGER The Brotherhood, most of whose leadership are in jail, continues to reiterate its mantra of peaceful resistance and denies turning to violence. It is pressing a campaign of protests on university campuses where its followers routinely clash with the police. But as that strategy fails to make much of an impact, there is a risk of radical logic winning over its supporters, posing a threat to the Brotherhood itself. Analysts believe the security establishment now has a firm grip over the course of government, reasserting political influence that diminished after the 2011 uprising. Activists say the freedoms won in that uprising are in danger. The state has widened a crackdown on dissent, on December 22 jailing three leading secular activists to three years in prison for breaking a law that severely curbs the right to protest - a major blow against those behind the January 25, 2011 revolution. "What we see now is a security apparatus that really seems to be out of control, going after individuals and groups it has grudges against," said Nathan Brown, a professor of political science at George Washington University. "You do sometimes hear murmurs that people in the leadership worry that an overly harsh set of actions will make the political divisions in Egypt worse, and there has to be some kind of lessening of the security crackdown. "This bombing puts off that date." Khaled Dawoud, a liberal politician, said the wave of Islamist attacks will make calls for reconciliation even less popular. He has continued to call for a political accommodation even after being stabbed by Mursi supporters in October. "In any country where terrorism takes place, public freedoms and hopes for democracy suffer a retreat. That is the law of gravity," he said. (Additional reporting by Shadia Nasralla and Yasmine Saleh; Editing by Peter Graff and David Evans)
This week, hedge fund millionaire Robert Wilson reportedly committed suicide.†Wall Street will remember him in part for being "the challenge king of philanthropy" ó for giving away most of his $800 million fortune. And in no small part Wall Street will remember him for almost losing it all in what Forbes called "the most catastrophic short play in modern times", the 1978 short squeeze of Resorts International. As anyone watching Bill Ackman's Herbalife squeeze will tell you, history lessons like this should be taught over and over again... and memorized.† Wilson launched his long/short hedge fund, Wilson and Associates, with $15,000 in 1969. In May of 1978, he built a 20,000 share short position in Resorts International after the hotel chain built the first casino ever in Atlantic City. The idea was that, as more casinos moved into Atlantic City and built flashier, more on-trend businesses, Resorts International's properties would suffer due to the competition.† The market turned against Wilson's trade from the start, but he stayed cool. "I'm getting crucified, but I may buy more," he told Forbes. The shares eventually sky rocketed from $19 to $190†by the fall of that year.† During that time, Wilson was traveling around the world on vacation ó Norway, Hong Kong, Australia, you name it. At home, Wall Street was going crazy for gambling/casino stocks in 1978 and 1979. Wilson's brokers convinced him to cover his short before he lost it all. Now, Wilson wasn't the only major investor caught in this short squeeze. George Soros had also built a position against Resorts International. The difference? Soros didn't publicize his position at all, and when the trade started turning against him, he changed his mind and went long. There's definitely a lesson in there. Find it and take it away.
@nyuniversity/TwitterThe best educations can sometimes be the most expensive. It's common knowledge that college costs are on the rise. But you may be surprised to know that some schools currently charge over $60,000 to educate a student for just one year. A list released earlier this year by the Department of Education charts the highest tuition in the country. Unfortunately, the tuition numbers used in the rankings are two years old, and fail to show the contemporary college landscape. The list also ignores the total cost of an education. Most four-year residential colleges will tack on an extra ten grand or more for room, board, and a wide range of other fees.¬† An administrator at Ohio University ‚Äî which was included in the list of most expensive public universities ‚Äî dismissed the Department of Education's rankings, saying, "The list does not describe the entire story of the costs of a quality education at Ohio University." New York University ‚Äî our most expensive school at a whopping $61,977 per year ‚Äî falls at number 61 on the Department of Education's highest tuition list. We've compiled a list of the colleges that are charging the most for tuition, required fees, and room and board for the upcoming academic year. These numbers are solely what you would directly pay to the school, so you're still going to have to cover books, travel, and beer, as well as the more recent requirement of a health care plan. For schools that didn't offer a flat total on their website, we added up the fees that a typical first year student would incur.
Traders from Steven A. Cohen's beleaguered SAC Capital Advisors continue to leave for rival shops. Moore Capital Management, Louis Bacon's $12.1 billion hedge fund firm with offices in London and New York, expects to hire several London-based SAC employees early next year, according to a person familiar with the situation. Moore met with members of SAC's investment management teams in London over recent weeks and extended offers, the person said. The names of the employees were not disclosed, but they are confirmed to be members of SAC's long/short equity and so-called macro units. "Macro" is a term for investors who trade all types of securities based on broad political and economic trends globally. Macro is Moore's main strategy, while SAC is primarily known for stock trading based on analysis of companies and the market. The firm does run a dedicated macro strategyóthe SAC Global Macro Fundóand has dedicated macro analysts and traders. Matt Burns, a spokesman for Moore, and Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, declined to comment. (Read more:†Troubled hedge fund sitting on real estate gold) SAC had about 950 employees as of Dec. 17, according to a recentregulatory filing. About 400 were professional investors. That number will fall by about 50, as SAC plans to close its London office at year-end as it transitions into a roughly $9 billion family office for Cohen. Moore just spoke with SAC employees in London and only after the firm announced it was returning outside investor capital, according to the person. SAC has been reeling from a string of insider trading convictions and settlements. Most recently, portfolio manager Michael Steinberg was found guilty Dec. 18 for various violations. He faces time in prison. Another, Mathew Martoma, is awaiting trial on similar charges. (Read more:†SAC's Steinberg found guilty of insider trading)† In early November, SAC pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges and agreed to pay a $1.2 billion fine. Cohen, who has not been personally charged with any crime, also agreed to stop managing outside capital. That was on top of a $616 million fine by the Securities and Exchange Commission for related charges. The move from SAC to Moore doesn't surprise industry observers, regardless of the legal troubles. "The overall culture at Moore is very similaróit isn't a surprise that SAC employees are interested. That move would make a lot of sense on both sides," said a recruiter who asked not to be named. Michael Karp, a founding partner of recruiting firm Options Group, agreed. "Moore Capital has a very strong platform and SAC has a reputation for employing high quality talent," Karp said. "As SAC digests some of its challenges, it's not a surprise that some of its employees look elsewhere, like Moore." (Read more:†The next headache for SAC's Steinberg: Legal fees?) Others have made similar jumps. London-based hedge fund firm BlueCrest Capital Management recently hired SAC employees Nicholas O'Grady, Eugene Lipovetsky, Lia Forcina and Alidod Shirinbekov, according to†The New York Times. And as†CNBC.com has reported, three SAC traders went to rival multistrategy shop Millennium Partners earlier in 2013: Alexey Chentsov, Santiago Falconi and Andres Anker. SAC†moved earlier this year†to retain investment staff by increasing base pay and adding an incentive bonus. But more defections are likely as hedge fund employees typically move shops in the new year after their annual bonuses have been paid. óBy CNBC's†Lawrence Delevingne. Follow him on Twitter†@ldelevingne.
In the last post of my first blogging year I have decided to blatantly steal the idea from the great Bill McBride. He asked the¬†10 most important questions for 2014, focusing mostly on the U.S. They are all very valid and probably triumph anything else but nonetheless this is my list for emerging markets: I disagree with those who think that the only reason behind the EM carnage this year has been the tapering fear. Since the middle of the year, the situation in the Chinese money market has been very delicate and dangerous. In the last days the squeeze has intensified, which begs the question: will China be able to orchestrate tighter money market conditions after the massive build-up of credit in recent years? If you‚Äôd like a nice overview of the situation, do read George Magnus‚Äô comment in the FT. Very few things have been trending in EM in the last year. Importantly, however, the CNY (or the CNH) has enjoyed a tremendous rally, basically without looking back. Now, in 2014 there are still trade-balance related reasons to expect some more appreciation, but ¬†one-way traffic in Chinese FX only encourages the rest of the world to lend money to China, which is against the theme I mentioned in Question 1. Everyone is talking about, broadly speaking, selling U.S. Treasuries and buying the S&amp;P 500 by big asset allocators. I don‚Äôt want to go into whether that makes sense or not, but I think it is important to ask whether a similar story could happen in EM. After all, the world is still underweight emerging markets, but within that position, the skew is towards fixed income. And it is difficult to argue that EM equities are super expensive‚Ä¶ The last several years have seen EM FX performing poorly. The reasons were related to the shrinking growth differential between DM and EM (and hence equity flows). It does appear, however, that the differential has stopped shrinking, so perhaps EM FX will behave a bit better? With the exception of the usual suspects (Argentina, Venezuela and Ukraine), there haven‚Äôt been any worries about sovereign defaults in EM. The underlying fiscal position in EM is quite good, so this should not change, unless of course the private sectors (and banks) need bailouts after the big increase in debt in recent years. Brazil, Turkey, South Africa, Indonesia and India have been in the eye of the storm this year. The pressure is still on, and the responses of authorities have varied ‚Äî from Rajan‚Äôs holistic reform approach in India to Basci‚Äôs never ending ignorance in Turkey. In order of fighting chance to make it, I go for: INR, BRL, ZAR, IDR and TRY. There‚Äôs been nothing going on for Russia lately. Growth slowing, current account reversing, fiscal situation deteriorating, commodity prices refusing to grow‚Ä¶ If it weren't for quite low public debt, Russia would be in serious trouble by now. But it is definitely headed in the wrong direction. Mario Draghi says that the current kind of disinflation actually boosts disposable income, as it is effectively a supply shock. I agree. That said, the risk is that low inflation has set across the EM spectrum, which could really make it more difficult for some of them to grow. A forced adjustment right after the crisis has left CEE as the most stable sub-region among emerging countries. Bank deleveraging is more advanced than anywhere else and balances of payments have improved drastically. On top of that, growth is really picking up. (In a non-inflationary manner, too!) This sets the stage for another year of outperformance, but will it happen? I know, I know ‚Äî even Ambrose Evans-Pritchard or Wolfgang M√ºnchau couldn‚Äôt say that EU periphery is part of emerging markets already. However, in my opinion, they have become a serious competitor for capital against some of the biggest EMs, who have witnessed a dramatic loss in competitiveness in recent years. With global growth increasing, chances are that the FDI pool will rise too. Perhaps instead of targeting Brazil, investors will go to Portugal? Or instead of heading to Turkey, they will choose Greece? These are the 10 things on my mind as far as emerging markets are concerned. And in the meantime, I wish you a very Merry Christmas and a fantastic New Year! Thanks for reading the blog and leaving a valuable feedback. See you in 2014!!!
REUTERSThe year 2020 will be a seminal one for Japan, with the country's capital home to the 31st Summer Olympiad and adult diapers†set to outsell their baby counterparts. The world is getting older, developed countries especially. Even in emerging markets like Brazil, the total fertility rate has dropped from†6.2 live births per women to 1.8, below the so-called "replacement rate." Deutsche Bank global strategist†Sanjeev Sanyal recently forecasted that world population†will peak around the year 2055†at 8.7 billion before declining to eight billion by 2100. Now, thanks to coder†Martin De Wulf†and U.N. data, we can really visualize these startling changes. De Wulf arranged population figures to make a set of familiar aging visualizations called†population pyramids. We chose 15 countries and show you the transition from 2000 to 2100 in 10-year intervals. France's population will double between 1950 and 2100:  Brazil's†population will peak in 2040, at 224 million: Population Pyramid Over two-thirds of Burkina Faso's†population was younger than 30 in 2010. By 2100, it will be 45%: Population Pyramid China's†population will fall below the one-billion mark around 2090: Population Pyramid India's†population will peak in 2060 at 1.7 billion: Population Pyramid Germany's†population of over 80 million is already on the decline, and will hit 70.3 million in 2100: Population Pyramid The U.S. will have a population of 478 million in 2100: Population Pyramid In 2020, 20% of Japan†will be 70 or older: Population Pyramid Kenya's†population will only continue to grow, reaching 168 million by 2100. It was 30 million in 2000: Population Pyramid Argentina's†population will peak in 2065 at 51.3 million: Population Pyramid Egypt†has a huge youth population right now: Population Pyramid Qatar's†population is currently skewed to the male gender, making this pyramid the strangest looking: Population Pyramid South Africa†will reach its population peak in 2065 at 57.1 million: Population Pyramid Russia's†population will slowly decline and hit 111 million in 2100: Population Pyramid The U.K.'s population will grow to 75 million by 2100: Population Pyramid
YouTube/Talks at Google"Never trust a journalist unless she's your mother."Stop everything and follow Nassim Taleb, the eccentric author and accidental poet, on Facebook. The acclaimed author of†The Black Swan, who has nearly 45,000 followers, describes his account as a place for philosophical discussions. "Please, no finance (or similarly depraved topics), and no journalists," he writes. He really, really doesn't like journalists. But Taleb makes some oddly profound observations about life, greed, and modernity. All of these are quotes:
Turkey is in turmoil. Last week, the children of top Turkish policymakers were arrested as part of a massive corruption investigation. Today, three top ministers resigned. And one of those ministers is now calling for Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan to step down. Not surprisingly, this political uncertainty is sending shock waves through the stock market. Here's a look at Turkey's Borsa Istanbul National 100 index, which is now down by 3%. Bloomberg
Cormorant fishing on China's Li River is all but dying out. Fisherman set out with domesticated cormorants, a seabird, on bamboo rafts before sunrise and often in the early evening. These birds prey on fish. But the fishermen tie threads around the necks of the cormorants to prevent them from swallowing the fish they catch. Once the threads are set, the fishermen begin chanting on their boats to prompt the birds to dive down and retrieve the fish. They control their birds with long poles Unable to compete with modern fishing, cormorant fishing on the river Li is now largely practiced for tourists. "Wild China", a documentary series produced by BBC and CCTV, has an exceptional segment on this 1,300-year old fishing technique, which is also practiced in Japan. Here's a look at how cormorant fishing works: Reuters AP Photo / Xinhua, Zhou Hua AP Photo/Greg Baker BBCWorldWide via YouTube China Photos/Getty Images) China Photos/Getty Images EUTERS/Mark Ralston 
YoutubeBrazilian tycoon Eike Batista's debt-laden oil company, currently under bankruptcy protection, has agreed with foreign creditors to renegotiate $5.8 billion in debt into a 90 percent stake in the firm. Oleo e Gas Participacoes (OGP), formerly known as OGX, informed Brazil's Securities and Exchange Commission of the accord, the G1 news website reported Wednesday. Under the deal reached Tuesday, holders of $3.8 billion in bonds issued by OGP's OGX Austria subsidiary are also to invest between $200 million to $215 million to cover the company's operation costs and cash flow needs, it said. Implementation of the accord, which must be approved by all creditors and by the Rio bankruptcy court, would enable the company "to weather its current financial crisis, continue its activities and fully meet its objectives," Rio-based OGP said. The company's chief executive Paulo Narcelio Simoes Amaral was quoted as saying the agreement was "an important vote of confidence in our future and the company now has solid foundations to take part in promising prospects of the Brazilian oil sector." OGX filed for bankruptcy protection in late October after debt-restructuring talks with its creditors failed. Last month, a Rio state judge granted bankruptcy protection to OGX but not to its foreign subsidiaries based in The Netherlands and Austria. A Rio court also extended bankruptcy protection to Batista's debt-laden shipbuilding company OSX. OSX and OGX are part of Batista's crumbling EBX empire of energy, mining and logistics companies. The decline of EBX began in mid-2012, when OGX announced that its oil output would be a quarter of what it had promised. In three years, EBX has seen its value plummet from $43.5 billion to less than $3 billion. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
James Brooks/FlickrHumans have remarkable control over their own happiness. In her book, "The How of Happiness: A New Approach to Getting the Life You Want," psychology professor Sonja Lyubomirsky says a person's happiness is 50% due to genetics, 10% due to circumstances, and the remaining 40% is "within our power to change." Happiness is different for each person, which is why we've compiled dozens of different methods to help you find your inner sunshine.
Democratic presidents tend to preside over better economies than Republican ones, but that may be down to pure luck, according to a recent paper from Alan Blinder and Mark Watson at Princeton. Since the end of World War II, the U.S. economy has grown at an average real rate of 4.35% under Democratic presidents and only 2.54% under Republicans. So what gives?¬† "Democrats would no doubt like to attribute the large D-R growth gap to better macroeconomic policies, but the data do not support such a claim," they write. "It seems we must look instead to several variables that are mostly 'good luck.'" Three factors can explain 46-62% of the growth gap, according to the paper.¬†Here are the reasons (via James Hamilton):
REUTERS/David W CernyHe'll be alright.The way the U.S. measures unemployment isn't perfect, and it certainly doesn't offer a comprehensive picture of the U.S. job market. Issues include the ambiguity of how unemployment is defined, the exclusion of those who have given up on looking for work, and also the responses of those being surveyed who may choose to say they are unemployed even though their personal job prospects vary greatly. All of these issues could collide after the government's Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program expires at the end of this year. The EUC allowed unemployed Americans to collect unemployment insurance benefits for 99 weeks instead of the standard 26 weeks. Economists believe many people will take jobs that they were holding out on. However, economists expect even more people to just drop out of the labor force, which in turn would cause the unemployment rate to drop. Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna explains (emphasis added): Currently, there are 1.32 million individuals collecting benefits through the various extended and emergency programs. This accounts for approximately one-third of the total number of unemployment insurance beneficiaries. If the program is allowed to lapse at the end of the year, it would have implications for both the composition of personal income as well as the level of the unemployment rate. Recall that to be eligible to collect unemployment benefits individuals are supposed to be actively looking for work. This is the same stipulation to be counted among the unemployed in the unemployment rate. (If individuals are not working, but not actively seeking a job, they are technically counted as ìnot in the labor forceîówhich in turn reduces the labor force participation rate.) If extended benefits expire, the unemployment rate could abruptly fall based on data the BLS provides on the behavior of the long-term unemployed. Every month the BLS provides data on the number of unemployed people who eventually drop out of the labor force, ostensibly the group who will be most impacted by the expiration of unemployment insurance. If 23% of the current 1.3 million people receiving unemployment insurance drop out of the labor force, which is what the BLS data imply, the unemployment rate will promptly fall to 6.8% from 7.0% currently, all else being equal. Another 850k individuals who are currently in state unemployment insurance programs would be impacted in Q1 2014. This would be worth another tenth on the unemployment rate. As such, the rate could be 6.7% by the March FOMC meetingópurely due to benefits expiration. This does not even account for the ongoing improvement in the labor market. (Remember, we assume employment is unchanged in these calculations.)... So, we may see the unemployment rate drop largely on a technicality. "Of course, it is possible that unemployment benefits are extended. Senate Majority Leader Reid said this would be a priority in the New Year, and House Speaker Boehner has also shown a willingness to address the issue," added LaVorgna. "Perhaps this is a source of compromise early in the New Year as a debt ceiling increase will need to be brokered by February 7, otherwise the Treasury Department will have to again resort to extraordinary measures. We doubt there is much tolerance for another debt ceiling fight so soon after the October standoff and so close to the mid-term elections." We'll see.
Secular Stagnation ó Not What It Is Meanwhile, the nattering nabobs of negativity are dominating the headlines. Itís incredible. I debated Larry Summers in late 2011 over whether the U.S. economy was following Japan, and I was in that camp at that time and Mr. Summers was in the land of green shoots and escape velocity. Notwithstanding what the stock market has done, as Ben Bernanke pulled a Potemkin of classic proportions, the economy actually did struggle as I predicted. But I realize now that, no, it is not going to be Japan all over again. And Larry Summers has replaced me on the dark side, and now conjures up 1930ís terminology such as ìsecular stagnationî and the need for negative interest rates (so I guess he now believes we have turned Japanese, after all). We are not at all suffering from secular stagnation. What the economy has had to endure is a balance sheet adjustment process of epic proportions. Go back to that weak 2001-03 recovery that was held back by the post-tech-collapse reparation of overleveraged corporate balance sheets. The consensus view heading into 2004 was that the economy was never going to recover ó what a surprise it then was to see the opposite and the Fed embarking on a tightening program in June of that year. Go back further to the banking sector financial repair that held back the recovery in 1992-93. Again, terms like ìstructural headwindsî, ìjobless recoveryî and ìcredit crunchî abounded. Then look at what happened in 1994. So fast-forward to the present. Of course the economy has been weak. But it is not because of any ìsecular stagnationî. It is because, yet again, we had a recovery held back by intensive balance sheet repair ó but in two critical sectors, not just one: the household and the federal government. The consumer has taken its aggregate debt/disposable income ratio down from 124.6% at the 2007 peak to 100.9% today, where it was a decade ago (down to 95% excluding student loans, an 11-year low). Gluskin Sheff In other words, the entire massive 2002-07 credit expansion has been reversed, and as such the household sector is in far better financial position to contribute to economic activity. This is underscored by the broad improvement in credit quality ratios (outside of student loans) as total loan delinquency rates have been cut in half to 5% over the past five years. And the federal deficit, 10% of GDP just four years ago, is below 4% today and on its way to below 3% a year from now, largely on the back of tough spending cuts and a big tax bite (this is not just about the Fedís interest rate program though that too has helped). Very few countries around the world have accomplished this ó Greece and Ireland come to mind, but the United States did not have to destroy its economy to accomplish this incredible fiscal improvement. Growth slowed for sure, but letís face it ó we never faced the 1937-38 moment, and that is news in its own right. Gluskin Sheff Then throw in the vast improvement in the balance-of-payments situation, courtesy of the energy revolution. With oil import volumes trimmed 5% over the past year and oil export volumes up a resounding 30%, the petroleum deficit in real terms has been shaved by one-quarter in just the last twelve months. This in turn has dragged the current account deficit in half to below 3% of GDP from the nearby high of 6%. The prospect of the U.S.A. entering into a class that is occupied by no more than eight countries (none in the G7) today in terms of enjoying ìtwin surplusî status on the fiscal and current account front within the next five years is far from remote, and nurturing this backdrop will ultimately require entitlement reform, but the political landscape going forward can only improve ó- the best thing FDR really did for the country was die so early into his last term ó triggering the twenty-second constitutional amendment in 1947 (two-term limits for presidents; now if only that also applied to Congress as well!). Gluskin Sheff Gluskin Sheff In a nutshell, I feel like 2014 is going to feel a lot like 2004 and 1994 when the economy surprised to the high side after a prolonged period of unsatisfactory post-recession growth, as reparation of highly leveraged balance sheets delayed, but in the end did not derail, a vigorous expansion. That by no means guarantees a stellar year for the markets because as we saw in 2013 with a softer year for the economy and as for the markets, multiple expansion premised on Fed-induced liquidity can act as a very powerful antidote. Plus a rising bond yield environment will also at some point provide some competition for the yield delivered by the stock market. While 1994 and 2004 were hardly disasters, the market generated returns both years that were 10 percentage points lower than they were the prior year even with a more solid footing to the economy ó what we got more in terms of growth we gave up in terms of a less supportive liquidity/monetary policy backdrop. But make no mistake, the upside for next year from a business or economic perspective as opposed from a market standpoint is considerable, in my view, and while it is open for debate as to how the stock market will respond, it is not too difficult to predict where bond yields will be heading (up) since they are, after all, cyclical by nature. Within equities, this means caution on the rate-sensitives and the macro backdrop will augur for growth over value.
Robert Kendall via FlickrThe housing recovery has been going strong and home prices have been up for the twentieth straight month. But the pace of home price growth is expected to moderate in 2014. Zillow expects home prices will increase 3% in 2014. But drawing on the projected increases in home prices between October 2013-2014, currently low local unemployment rates, and healthy population growth rates, Zillow has identified what are expected to be the 10 hottest housing markets in 2014.
Wikimedia Commons(Reuters) - A Las Vegas taxi driver has been hailed for his honesty after ensuring that $300,000 in cash found left in his cab was returned to its rightful owner,¬†the Las Vegas Sun¬†reported on Tuesday. Gerardo Gamboa¬†discovered the cash inside a bag that an unidentified passenger left behind in the taxi's back seat early Monday after a successful night of gambling, the newspaper reported. Gamboa's employer,¬†Yellow Checker Star Transportation, later rewarded the cabbie for his rectitude by giving him a $1,000 bonus and a dinner out for two, and named him the company's driver of the year, the newspaper said, citing accounts from Gamboa and his company. It was not clear whether the owner of the cash would also reward Gamboa. The cabbie could not immediately be reached by¬†Reuters¬†for comment, and his company did not return phone calls.¬†City police¬†declined to comment on the incident. Gamboa picked up the cash-toting man early on Monday at The¬†Cosmopolitan hotel¬†and drove him to the Palms Place, where he received a $5 tip, he told the newspaper. At Gamboa's next stop, a hotel doorman at the Bellagio discovered the bag in the rear of the cab, and thinking it contained chocolate left behind by a passenger, moved it from the back seat to the front passenger seat, the newspaper reported. After peering inside the bag while stopped at a traffic light, Gamboa called his dispatcher to report the find. Using hotel records, the cab company tracked down the passenger, who arrived at the company's office in sweats and a T-shirt - but without any identification. After local police helped verify his identity, the man was reunited with his cash. He shook Gamboa's hand, took down his contact information, and said he would reward him at a later time, the newspaper reported. "If he doesn't give me anything, that's OK," Gamboa told the Sun. "I'm not waiting for any kind of return. I just wanted to do the right thing, and I appreciate what the company did for me." (Reporting by Jonathan Kaminsky; Editing by Steve Gorman and Ken Wills)
REUTERS/Tim WimborneKuchani, a female African Lion at Sydney's Taronga Zoo, enjoys a treat hidden inside a Christmas wrapped box, December 23, 2008.While he's not the most bullish on the Street, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco believes that 2014 will indeed see some growth. "The US economy should sustain a long lasting expansionary cycle of moderate growth, which will make it worthwhile to stay constructive on the S&amp;P 500 for the next couple of years absent a sharp climb in PEs, inflation or interest rates," Bianco writes in his 2014 outlook.  "At this time, we assign a 75% chance to the S&amp;P reaching 1850 or higher at 2014 end." Bianco suggests a "very selective" investment strategy including technology, aerospace, insurance, chemical, and biotechnology stocks. Here are Deutsche Bank's favorite big cap stocks (market cap great than $10 billion, PE on 2014 EPS greater than 20, 2014 EPS growth greater than 5%, and net debt/market cap less than 30% for the non-financial companies).
