When you think about gambling in America, the first thing that probably comes to mind is Las Vegas. But Las Vegas currently represents just 10 percent of U.S. gaming industry revenue. This is according to a new report from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Regional commercial gaming accounts for another 47 percent of the industry. The remaining 43 percent: Native American gaming. The Native American gaming story is particularly extraordinary in that it¬† has grown into a $27 billion business from almost nothing in just 20 years. Here's a chart from a BAML: Bank of America Merrill Lynch Here's BAML on the industry: Any which way you slice it, the U.S. casino industry has seen dramatic growth over the last 20 years. Over that time, commercial gaming revenues have grown at a +10% CAGR, from only $10 billion in 1992 to a peak of $37 billion in 2007 (see Chart 18). This dramatic growth has been driven by the combination of 1) the expansion of U.S. Native American gaming which makes up over 40% of the total industry but was virtually non-existent prior to 1990, 2) the expansion of U.S. commercial gaming to new states and jurisdictions, primarily in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic, and 3) additional growth in Nevada and New Jersey driven by new casino-resort supply. As you can see in the chart, gaming industry revenues dipped slightly in the wake of the financial crisis.¬† However, those revenues have quickly come back.
Sunday, Irish betting site InTrade announced on its website that all trading was being halted. The language is very ominous. It's unclear if there will ever be trading again. The site was controversial. It was popular among pundits and amateur fans of U.S. politics, as it allowed people to place bets on various real-life event outcomes (Would Obama win? Who would be the GOP nominee? Will the Supreme Court uphold Obamacare). When it came to dealing with U.S. users, the company was always operating in a clearly gray area of the law, as it crossed the line into both futures trading and online gambling. Late last year it totally blocked U.S. users, as it was sued by U.S. regulators. But all legal issues aside, the premise of the site was awesome, and its most vocal critics were wrong. One vocal critic was Barry Ritholz, who after the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of Obamacare, wrote: InTrade Blows It Again: ACA Upheld By SCOTUS. He posted this chart showing that right before the decision, InTrade was placing an 80 percent chance of Obamacare being ruled unconstitutional. The chart is supposedly evidence that InTrade "blew it." Barry RItholtz But Barry's argument was flawed. The point of InTrade was not to be "right." The point of InTrade was to create a market where popular thinking was quantified. The fact of the matter is that prior to the SCOTUS ruling on Obamacare, it was clearly conventional wisdom that the law was going to be struck down. Obama's lawyers did not do well in oral arguments, and there were even rumors that the Supreme Court had decided to kill it.  InTrade accurately captured in a number what people thought, that Obamacare was toast. InTrade was wrong, but only because conventional wisdom was wrong. In Barry's post he lists a number of other times that InTrade blew it, such as whether or not the GOP would hold the Senate in 2006. A month out traders thought it would, but in the end Democrats ultimately captured the Senate. But again, even on election night, the Democrats winning the Senate in 2006 was a big shock! Conventional wisdom is occasionally wrong. The test of a market is not whether it's "right" but whether it adequately captures current information and the sentiment of informed participants. InTrade did a good job of that. Sometimes information is misleading and informed participants are on the wrong side of events, but that happens in every market in the world. If a stock runs up into earnings, and then earnings suck wind, and the stock collapses after hours, do we condemn the stock market for being flawed? Of course not. It just happens sometimes that participants get things wrong, and this happened on InTrade, although really not that often.
The WH tours are closed after a decision by the Secret Service that it could not afford to maintain security. The savings for shuttering the WH comes to a measly $2m over the next seven months. Iím thinking this is a bullshit move by Obama; heís trying to get the public hostile toward Republicans. If the visitors to D.C. who are disappointed in not being able to visit the WH actually knew the facts, they would be mad at Obama, not the Republicans. The Secret Service budget for 2013 is $1.67b. The $2m savings from closing the WH comes to 0.12% of the budget for the Secret Service, itís equal to 0.00005% of total spending. Closing the WH is a dumb way to save some money. Some other places where the $2m could have been absorbed: Information Technology Portfolio ñ $200m Transformation Initiative ñ $50m Oregon and California Grant Lands ñ $113m Payments to States in Lieu of Coal Fee Receipts ñ $128m Lower Colorado River Basin Development Fund ñ $254m Upper Colorado River Basin Fund ñ $92m Surveys, Investigations, and Research - $1,075m Operation of the National Park System ñ $3,000m Mineral Leasing and Associated Payments ñ $2,144m Salaries and Expenses, United States Attorneys ñ $1,972m Capital and Debt Service Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation ñ $958m Grants for Specified Energy Property in Lieu of Tax Credits, Recovery Act ñ $3,671m Foreign Military Financing Program ñ $6,344m Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund ñ $850m Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia ñ $631m Commodity Futures Trading Commission - $206m Corporation for Public Broadcasting - $445m Tennessee Valley Authority Fund ñ $445m If you donít find anything on that list (there are thousands of other line items to choose from) consider saving the money to keep the WH open from these big accounts: Military Procurement ñ $100B (50,000 Xs the cost of keeping the WH open) Military R&amp;D ñ $87B (43,500 Xs the cost of keeping the WH open) The problem with the sequester is that it is a meataxe approach to cutting. Itís a dumb way to go about the process. The Secret Service is facing cut backs, it will be forced to pare back $84m of expenses. But to have those cuts centered around the public access to the White House is just for show. All of D.C. is going to look dumb before this is over. Obama might get the award for deliberately mismanaging the process. Letís hope so.
Bank of America† The economic data from last week was strong. Goldman Sachs sees a "tantalizing prospect" that the U.S. economy may already be over the hump and that growth will accelerate this year, proving wrong the naysayers who said that the end of the payroll tax holiday and the sequestration would be a blow to the recovery. We thought this was interesting, because back in early February, BofA strategist for FX and rates David Woo said that the U.S. economy was about to see the "moment of truth." At the time he reckoned that the data over the coming weeks would show whether the U.S. recovery would survive or not. So we asked Woo what he thought of the latest good data that has the market and folks like Goldman Sachs so excited. He remains skeptical. Via email he writes: The Feb data have been impressive but I still think March data will be decisively slower. The Rasmussen daily consumer confidence is down nearly 10 points from mid-Feb and the impact of the sequester will start to show up in the next 2-3 weeks (CBO is forecasting 750K job looses this year from sequester implementation). Indeed, given that the sequestration has barely begun, it's tough to make any comments about its impact. What will come in the next few weeks will be key.
CBS 60 Minutes Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg took her "Lean In" message to 60 Minutes this evening. In a powerful new book, Sandberg argues that women need to be more assertive in their careers, fighting against societal programming that conditions them to defer to men, scale back their ambitions, and essentially give up early. This passivity, Sandberg argues, is the real reason there are so few women in positions of power. In the context of this message, Sandberg noted that it is impossible to "have it all" as a woman--full career and full home life--if you're also expected to do all of the housework and child care at home. This is why a woman's most important career decision, Sandberg says, is who you marry. In a sales pitch presumably designed to get men to pick up more of the workload at home, Sandberg said on 60 Minutes that studies show that men who do more housework have more sex with their wives. If that were true, it would certainly be interesting! And it might result in men washing more dishes or cooking more meals. Alas... A recent study suggests just the opposite: Men who do more housework have less sex. Importantly, the study does not suggest that doing housework somehow makes men less sexy or too busy or whatever. Rather, the researchers suggest that men who do housework have less sex because men who do more traditional "man" chores like lawn-mowing and car-repair are more traditionally manly than men who do housework. And this traditional manliness apparently translates into a more aggressive sex drive. Here's the summary from the study, which was published last year by the American Sociological Association. It was written by Sabino Kornrich, Julie Brines, and Katrina Leupp: Changes in the nature of marriage have spurred a debate about the consequences of shifts to more egalitarian relationships, and media interest in the debate has crystallized around claims that men who participate in housework get more sex. However, little systematic or representative research supports the claim that women, in essence, exchange sex for men‚Äôs participation in housework. Although research and theory support the expectation that egalitarian marriages are higher quality, other studies underscore the ongoing importance of traditional gender behavior and gender display in marriage. Using data from Wave II of the National Survey of Families and Households, this study investigates the links between men‚Äôs participation in core (traditionally female) and non-core (traditionally male) household tasks and sexual frequency. Results show that both husbands and wives in couples with more traditional housework arrangements report higher sexual frequency, suggesting the importance of gender display rather than marital exchange for sex between heterosexual married partners. Sorry, Sheryl!
IntradeEmbattled betting website Intrade has shut down all trading, wealth.net reports. The Irish company was sued by the CFTC in November for allegedly violating a 2007 agreement not to allow customers to trade commodities like oil and gold. The suit also accused Intrade of soliciting customers to buy options on future events. After the suit was filed Intrade said that it did not spell the end of its business in the United States. Now the entire trading operation has been shut down. Here's the message Intrade put on its website for customers this weekend:¬† With sincere regret we must inform you that due to circumstances recently discovered we must immediately cease trading activity on¬†www.intrade.com. These circumstances require immediate further investigation, and may include financial irregularities which in accordance with Irish law oblige the directors to take the following actions: During the upcoming weeks, we will investigate these circumstances further and determine the necessary course of action. To mitigate any further risk to members‚Äô accounts, we have closed and settled all open contracts at fair market value as of the close of business on March 10, 2013, in accordance with the Terms and Conditions of our customers‚Äô use of the website. You may view your account details and settled account balances by logging into the website. At this time and until further notice, it is not possible to make any payments to members in accordance with their settled account balance until the investigations have concluded. The Company will continue the maintenance and technology operations of the exchange system so that all information is preserved properly. We are not able to provide telephone support or live help services at this time, please contact the company by email at:¬†accountservices@intrade.com We appreciate your custom and support over the years. We are committed to reporting faithfully the status of things as they are clarified and hope you will bear with us as we do all we can to resume operations as promptly as possible. Sincerely, The Board of Directors of Intrade the Prediction Market Limited
IntradeWell-known online betting site InTrade is completely shutting down trading, according to a memo posted to its site. It's unclear if it will ever open again, as the language is rather vague. The news was first noticed by Wealth.net. The full text of the memo is pasted below the dotted line. The memo hints at restoring services eventually, although the wording is very vague. The Ireland-based InTrade was always controversial and popular during election season, as it allowed betters to gamble on various political outcomes (and other event-based outcomes). Last November, the site was sued by the U.S. regulator the CFTC, and the site blocked all U.S.-based users. The site was controversial not only because it let users trade on real events, but also how its odds were interpreted by the press, and whether or not the "prediction markets" it specialized in actually had predictive ability. One InTrade we spoke to described themselves as "mildly panicked" as they had $700 in the site, and were unable to withdraw. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- With sincere regret we must inform you that due to circumstances recently discovered we must immediately cease trading activity on www.intrade.com. These circumstances require immediate further investigation, and may include financial irregularities which in accordance with Irish law oblige the directors to take the following actions: During the upcoming weeks, we will investigate these circumstances further and determine the necessary course of action. To mitigate any further risk to members‚Äô accounts, we have closed and settled all open contracts at fair market value as of the close of business on March 10, 2013, in accordance with the Terms and Conditions of our customers‚Äô use of the website. You may view your account details and settled account balances by logging into the website. At this time and until further notice, it is not possible to make any payments to members in accordance with their settled account balance until the investigations have concluded. The Company will continue the maintenance and technology operations of the exchange system so that all information is preserved properly. We are not able to provide telephone support or live help services at this time, please contact the company by email at: accountservices@intrade.com We appreciate your custom and support over the years. We are committed to reporting faithfully the status of things as they are clarified and hope you will bear with us as we do all we can to resume operations as promptly as possible.  Sincerely, The Board of Directors of Intrade the Prediction Market Limited
I hate personal budgets. Even so, I made my students in my Personal Finance course keep track of their expenses for three weeks.¬† Not necessarily to torture them, but because they might need it later on. I don‚Äôt keep one, so I‚Äôm not about to suggest that that everyone else needs to start writing down all their purchases, packing those little flimsy receipts into their wallets and stressing until every last purchase gets recorded into their personal accounting software. Since I don‚Äôt keep one myself, I hesitate to suggest it for others. And yet, if debt is a problem, you might need it. The Observer Effect The ‚ÄúObserver Effect‚Äù from physics explains is why you should budget expenses every month if you‚Äôre having trouble getting out of debt. The Observer Effect is often described in shorthand as the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principal,[1]¬†although I recently learned these are different, frequently conflated, phenomena. Quantum theory posits that the act of observation influences electrons in spatial relationship with other particles. In other words, to look at an electron is to alter either its position or its momentum.¬† Which kind of leads to messed up science. Messed-up Science But messed-up science can be our friend in personal finance. To take a more common personal situation than quantum physics, doctors who study effective weight-loss techniques struggle with the basic scientific problem of Observer Effect.¬† Essentially, when you enroll people in a study to observe weight loss effectiveness, you more often than not change the behavior of the people in the study. Consciously or not, study subjects begin to consider more carefully their behavior and its effect on their weight.¬† Whether you‚Äôre enrolled in the ‚Äòcontrol‚Äô or the ‚Äòstudy‚Äô group, you no longer act or think precisely the way you did before enrollment. Personal budgeting is a way to take advantage of this observer effect, if you have trouble coving your costs on a monthly basis. We can use the observer effect to our advantage, altering our behavior in the act of observing it. How I use the Observer Effect in my own life I don‚Äôt carry monthly credit card debt, which is my primary excuse for not doing personal budgeting.[2]¬† Frankly, my behavior when it comes to monthly expenses is fine already.¬† Because I‚Äôm cheap. But I periodically struggle with two other problems: time management ‚Äì and keeping to a regular exercise schedule.¬† I already know the ‚Äòright answers‚Äô when it comes to these behaviors, but knowing the right answers is not the same thing as doing the right thing on a monthly basis Hence, the observer effect. When I get really stuck, I‚Äôve learned I can track either of these behaviors in a spreadsheet.¬†¬†¬† Do I think I run four times a week but really I only run twice a week?¬† Do I think I go the local gym twice a week but really it‚Äôs twice a month? Am I wasting two hours a day surfing Facebook, clicking ‚Äòlike‚Äô on Gawker articles?¬† When I track every half hour of my day, I can begin to see that a scheduled twenty minute conference call actually eats up an hour and a half, between preparation time, and follow up emails, and daydreaming about what I should have said during the call.[3] This tracking inevitably changes my exercise and time management behavior, subtly altering it for the better. Look, I know it‚Äôs not a permanent change, and it‚Äôs not a cure-all.¬† But it‚Äôs a start ‚Äì and better than doing nothing. A very successful business leader once told me the hardest part of his business is enacting adult behavior change. I‚Äôve learned over time that personal habits ‚Äì especially personal habits we‚Äôre not proud of ‚Äì rarely survive wholly intact after exposure to close observation. All of which is to say if you have a hard time covering your expenses on a month-to-month basis ‚Äì try budgeting.¬† [1]¬†Apparently the ‚ÄòUncertainty Principal‚Äô describes the difficulty of simultaneously measuring paired properties in particles like electrons ‚Äì such as location and momentum. ¬†The ‚ÄòObserver Effect‚Äô with which it is often confused describes the problem of observing certain phenomena without changing the measured phenomena in the act of observation. [2]¬†My secondary excuse? Laziness. [3]¬†Here‚Äôs the best time-management book I‚Äôve ever read,¬†168 hours: You Have More Time Than You Think¬†by Laura Vanderkam.¬† Also,¬†she provides a handy spreadsheet¬†that you can use to track your time. Post read (152) times. Tags:¬†budgeting,¬†Observer Effect,¬†personal finance,¬†quantum physics
Wikipedia, Jack Lew signatureThe weak dollar has been seen as a key driver of the stock market recovery in recent years. Since the early 2000s, "a weaker dollar brought higher EPS yet little inflation,"¬† wrote Deutsche Bank's David Bianco in a new note to clients.¬† "S&amp;P foreign profits increased to 40% of total profits from 20% in late 1990s. S&amp;P EPS benefits from a weaker dollar through FX translation and usually higher commodity prices." But in recent weeks, the U.S. dollar and the stock market have been¬† moving in tandem. And Bianco thinks this is good news.¬† From his note: It would take a very sharp dollar rally to derail EPS growth or cause oil prices to collapse, which we do not expect. But gradual dollar strength, as we do expect, would be consistent with further improvement in US economy and fiscal position, which should help raise the PE. The benefits from the increased likelihood of a sustainable US up-cycle would most likely outweigh the modest EPS headwind from a stronger USD and help drive PE expansion to a more normal 15x or higher. A stronger USD will also improve foreign investor confidence and help bring inflows to US equities." Ultimately, the stock market isn't driven by moves in the dollar alone.¬† Rather, their dynamic relationship is usually a reflection of something much bigger going on in the global economy and financial markets. Here's a lightly annotated chart from Bianco. The dark blue-line reflects the correlation between the S&amp;P 500 and the dollar.¬† As you can see, the relationship has been anything but static: Deutsche Bank
">goingconcern.comFormer Lehman Brothers CFO Erin Callan, who was one of the most powerful women on Wall Street before the bank's demise, has written a really gutsy op-ed in The New York Times.¬† Her op-ed, "Is There Life After Work?," has to do with the work/life balance debate that's been going on for awhile now.¬† Her piece in the Times gets very personal. In it, the former "well-heeled" Wall Street exec sounds extremely remorseful about working all those crazy hours and putting her career ahead of her family, friends, and first husband. Callan, who now has step children and a new husband, also writes about wishing she had children of her own. She says at age 47 she and her husband are still trying in vitro fertilization.¬† Post-Lehman she seems to have come to the realization that she didn't have to work the extreme way she did to become CFO.¬† Callan writes:¬† I have often wondered whether I would have been asked to be C.F.O. if I had not worked the way that I did. Until recently, I thought my singular focus on my career was the most powerful ingredient in my success. But I am beginning to realize that I sold myself short. I was talented, intelligent and energetic. It didn‚Äôt have to be so extreme. Besides, there were diminishing returns to that kind of labor. I didn‚Äôt have to be on my BlackBerry from my first moment in the morning to my last moment at night. I didn‚Äôt have to eat the majority of my meals at my desk. I didn‚Äôt have to fly overnight to a meeting in Europe on my birthday. I now believe that I could have made it to a similar place with at least some better version of a personal life. Not without sacrifice ‚Äî I don‚Äôt think I could have ‚Äúhad it all‚Äù ‚Äî but with somewhat more harmony. These days, she writes, that she's "only learning how to manage a life." Read the full op-ed at the NYTimes &gt;
Reddit user IamNorris came up with a pretty ingenious use of Google Maps to instantly identify where poor people and rich people live in a region. His clever trick ‚Äî which looks at California's Bay Area ‚Äî is on the top of Reddit right now. IamNorris, Reddit
Yes, it's a cattle truck. So? If there's one thing that pretty much everyone agrees on it's that flying these days sucks. The litany of complaints about how horrible and degrading it is to fly is unending, as is the nostalgia for the days when flying was a classy and elegant way to travel. But it's time for everyone who whines about how lousy flying is to at least acknowledge one thing: The reason flying is the way it is is because that's exactly what today's fliers want. Specifically, fliers want: Oh, sure, people who fly won't say that they're getting what they want ó because then they would reveal themselves to be cheap bastards who care mostly about price. But price is exactly what they care about most. How do we know that? Because, again and again, fliers choose their airlines based primarily on one selection criterion: Price. Don't believe it? Think that an airline that differentiated itself based on service and quality of experience would immediately distance itself from the pack? Think again. Airlines that spend more to set themselves apart based on service often do worse than airlines that focus on price. In fact, they often go bust. Virgin Atlantic, for example, is going through a very rough time financially, even though it goes to great lengths to try to set itself apart. If fliers really wanted what Virgin was selling, Virgin would be in excellent financial health. But they don't. They want the lowest possible price. There's nothing wrong with wanting the lowest-possible price. Walmart has built an excellent global business based on that value proposition. But you don't hear Walmart customers whining about how they're not getting Nordstrom-level service. The level of whining about today's Walmart-style flying experience, meanwhile, is so deafening that it almost drowns out the jet engine noise. Time to quit whining, fliers. If you want better service, pay up for it. Otherwise, enjoy your extremely cheap trip and shut up about the flying experience. SEE ALSO: I Was Quite Surprised By Several Things On My International Economy-Class Flight
The national unemployment rate fell from 7.9 percent to 7.7 percent this week, after a strong Non-Farm Payrolls report. But the unemployment rate differs greatly for people with different levels of education. From Bill McBride at Calculated Risk, here's the latest look at the differing levels of unemployment by level of educational attainment. For those with a bachelor's degree (blue line), the unemployment rate is below 4 percent. For those with no college (purple line), the unemployment rate is around 8 percent. Calculated Risk The question of whether college is "worth it" continues to be hot. Those who believe it is worth it will find this data helpful, although some will say that college enrollment self-selects for the more talented, and thus the relationship between low unemployment and having a bachelor's degree is more correlated, rather than causal.
Bloomberg TVThe Dow made new highs this week, ending Friday at an all-time closing high of 14,397.07. One of the most well-known stock market bulls is Wharton professor Jeremy Siegel, who is known for his long historical analysis of stock market returns. Siegel and his assistant Jeremy Schwartz (who is the research director at the ETF company WisdomTree, which Siegel is involved with) are the subject of a Barron's piece this weekend about how high the Dow can get in the next couple of years. Their answer? 15,000 this year looks easy. The 16,000-17,000 range is also possible. And there's a 50/50 chance of Dow 18,000 by the end of next year. How do they arrive at these numbers? Basically Siegel and Schwartz take Dow returns going back to 1871, and chop up the market into rolling 5-year periods. The median return over any 5-year period is 9.41 percent. The worst return is 15.6 percent. As of this year, despite the 4-year bull market rally, the current 5-year return has been in the lowest third of all 5-year periods. Then in the 2-year period of returns following the lowest of all 5-year periods, the median return is 14.59. The final math ... drum roll ... To apply that 14.59 percent to the Dow, we first subtract 2.48 percentage points for dividends, leaving a median price return of 12.11 percent a year. Grow the Dow at 12.11 percent from the March 5 close of 14,254 ó the final number in our last five-year interval ó and you get 17,915 within two years. Voila! Red the full story here &gt;
Fox NewsWisconsin Rep. Paul Ryan previewed the Republican†House Budget Committee's budget on "Fox News Sunday" with Chris Wallace today, where he laid out some of the envisioned changes to entitlement programs. Even as some Republicans urge the party to move on from the fight over the Affordable Care Act, Ryan told Wallace that his budget assumes the repeal of the 3020 law colloquially known as "Obamacare" ó something that left the host Wallace dumbfounded. "Are you saying that as part of your budget you assume the repeal of Obamacare?" Wallace said. "Yes," Ryan answered. "Well," Wallace said, pausing. "That's not going to happen." "Well, we believe it should. That's the point," Ryan said. "This is what budgeting is all about, Chris. It's about making tough choices to fix our country's problems. We believe Obamacare is a program that will not work.†We believe Obamacare will actually lead to hospitals and doctors and health care providers turning people away. The future of Obamacare was one of the central pillars of the 2012 election. As a result of President Barack Obama's win, some Republicans have urged the party to move past their fight on the issue.† Some Republicans in the Senate, too, are prepared to support an amendment to the Senate's government continuing resolution bill to de-fund Obamacare. It was introduced by Sens. Mike Lee and Ted Cruz, and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell has said he will support it. Watch video of Ryan below, via the Huffington Post: 
Henry Ford voluntarily paid his teammates twice the market rate. This was not just great for the team. It was a brilliant business decision. Since the late 1970s, when American companies were fat and complacent, the focus of American capitalism has been on the bottom line. Spurred on by activist shareholders, private-equity firms, and bonuses based on stock prices, corporate managers have become obsessed with maximizing quarterly profits. This new focus has produced remarkable results. Business Insider, St. Louis FedCorporate profits have hit an all-time high as a percent of the economy.Over the past three decades, big American companies have gone from having below-average profit margins to the highest profit margins in history (see chart at right). Unfortunately, this obsession with profit maximization has come at a cost. By focusing their entire effort on the bottom line, many American companies have reduced their value to the other constituencies that great companies serve, namely: One result of the profit obsession, for example, is that big American companies are now paying the lowest wages as a percent of the economy in history. (See chart). Business Insider, St. Louis FedWages have hit an all time low as a percent of the economy.This means that a record-low percentage of the vast wealth these companies have is being shared with the people who help earn it. Another result is that companies are now scrimping on capital investments, which have also dropped sharply as a percent of the economy. (See chart). Both of these efficiency initiatives help "maximize profit," at least in the near term. But they hurt the economy. And they also hurt our companies' overall growth rates. Why? Because every dime that companies pay out in wages and capital investment becomes revenue for other companies. Business Insider, St. Louis FedCapital investment as a percent of the economy (non-residential) continues to fall.Rank-and-file employees at American companies ó Walmart employees, for example ó are also American consumers. They spend nearly everything they earn buying food, clothes, gas, houses, entertainment, and other products and services. This money then becomes profits and wages for companies that provide those products and services. And so on. The problem in the American economy right now is not that there isn't enough investment capital. There's plenty of it. (There's so much of it, in fact, that some companies don't even know what to do with it: Witness the massive cash mountains building up at companies like Apple, Cisco, Google, Bank of America, JP Morgan, et al.) The problem in the U.S. economy is that rank-and-file American consumers are over-indebted, under-employed, and broke. And these consumers account for a staggering 70% of the spending in the U.S. economy. To restore the economy to health, we need to persuade our companies to balance their priorities ó to share more of their wealth with the employees who help earn it. More broadly, we need to persuade our companies to focus on creating value for all of their constituencies, not just shareholders. By toastforbrekkie on FlickrThis is the new American manufacturing worker. Her company's doing great. She needs a raise.Take Walmart as an example. Walmart employs 1.4 million Americans, approximately 1% of the entire American workforce. The average full-time Walmart associate makes $12 an hour ó $480 a week and $25,000 a year. That's just above the poverty line. These 1.4 million Americans who are dedicating their lives to making Walmart successful, in other words, are paid so little that they're nearly poor. Walmart itself made $27 billion of operating profit in 2011. If Walmart were to give each of its U.S. associates a $5,000 raise, it would cost the company $7 billion a year. This would reduce Walmart's operating profit to a still-extremely-healthy $20 billion. It would also give 1.4 million hard-working Americans another $100 a week to spend. And, chances are, they'd spend a lot of it at Walmart. The same can be said for Bank of America, Citigroup, and many other huge American companies that are furiously engaged in finding ways to fire people and cut costs. In addition to their massively profitable Wall Street operations, these banks have huge branch networks in which tellers and local loan officers make modest salaries while serving their communities. Some of them would undoubtedly be grateful for a raise. And they'd probably spend it close to home. The point is that our three-decade drive to make our companies more efficient has been spectacularly successful ó so successful that, in the interests of "maximizing profits," we're now starving the key growth driver of the economy, average Americans. Business Insider, St. Louis FedHow can we fix the economy? We can reinvest profits in people.To fix this, our companies need to share more of their wealth with their employees. They need to aim to earn a reasonable profit, not a "maximized" one. And they need to reinvest their excess profits in creating more value for their other constituencies, namely customers, employees, and society. "Fairness" and "sharing" have become dirty words in our country, words that immediately get the speaker branded a "liberal" or "communist." This is depressing. Fairness and sharing aren't political concepts, and the fact that they're interpreted that way shows just how polarized the country has become. But given that half the country now associates "voluntary sharing" with "communism," arguing that companies should share their wealth because it's the right thing to do won't get us very far. So let's just base the argument on self-interest. It is very much in companies' self-interest to pay employees more. If companies pay their employees more, they'll increase loyalty, reduce turnover, and get better employees. Over the long term, this should reduce training and hiring costs. By increasing customer satisfaction, it should also increase revenue. By paying their employees more, companies will also put more money in the hands of American consumers, who will then turn around and use it to buy products and services from American companies. So the companies will help accelerate the growth of the economy as a whole. And as the economy grows, so will the companies. This, in turn, will help create more long-term shareholder value. In short, to restore our economy and society to health, we need a new corporate mission in America. We need to stop maximizing profit and start maximizing value. SEE ALSO: 15 Facts About Starbucks That Will Blow Your Mind
Charlie RoseMuch has been made about America's shale fracking boom, which some experts believe will lead to energy independence. But energy independence may actually put America at risk.† In an interview with Charlie Rose, ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson says not only will that never actually happen, we wouldn't want it to. The reason? Supply management. Via the Charlie Rose transcript: ...the way I think about the risk of major supply disruptions is those are mitigated because we are connected to so many different supplies geographically. †It's why, in my comments about energy independence, I've always said I don't think that's in our best interest to be independent. †We need to be connected to multiple sources. † Maintaining multiple sources is key to reducing price volatility, he says:† Clearly, the world is ó has a lot of places in the world today where stability is an issue. †And that can ó that can influence the price. †It's probably not going to dramatically alter people's access to energy, but it can alter the price at which they have to pay for that energy because a piece of the supply comes off the market, the capacity gets very tight, and the price goes up.† It's a pretty simple argument. Watch the full interview here &gt;
The world is staging a rally on "steroids" as Doug Short puts it, in his latest weekly market update. New highs are being seen all over the place. But as Short notes, one country is MIA: China. Check out how badly it's lagging everyone else. Another interesting phenomenon is that the FTSE 100 ó the UK's stock market ó is also going nuts, despite the well-known economic challenges facing the country. The U.K. is getting slammed, but entirely via its currency. The pound is getting pounded. So any outside investors who bought U.K. stocks would be lagging badly due to currency conversions. But in pound terms, the stock market is doing just fine. Doug Short
Since taking office in January 2009, President Obama has created 621,000 jobs on a net basis. That's according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' establishment survey, which produces the non farm payrolls report. To be clear, Obama spent the beginning of his Presidency stopping the bleeding. We've been in positive job creation territory since Fall 2010. Here a chart of the monthly NFP reports from Bespoke Investment Group: Bespoke Investment Group
Getty/Carsten KoallWilly Brandt Berlin Brandenburg International Airport, GermanyThe United States was ranked the seventh-most economically competitive country in the world, according to the World Economic Forum‚Äôs Global Competitiveness Report for 2012-2013. The WEF defines competitiveness as "the set of institutions, policies, and factors that determine the level of productivity of a country." While the U.S. benefits greatly from the sheer size of its economy, excellent universities, flexible labor markets, and innovative businesses, it's falling behind on the overall quality of infrastructure. The U.S. ranked 25 in this category, falling behind countries like Saudi Arabia, Spain, and South Korea. We took a closer look at those 24 countries with better infrastructures than the U.S.
For the first time in recorded history, we have nearly every central bank printing money and trying to debase their currency. This has never happened before. How itís going to work out, I don't know. It just depends on which one goes down the most and first, and they take turns. When one says a currency is going down, the question is against what? because they are all trying to debase themselves. Itís a peculiar time in world history. I own the dollar, not because I have any confidence in the dollar and not because itís sound ñ itís a terribly flawed currency ñ but I expect more currency turmoil, more financial turmoil. During periods like that, people, for whatever reason, flee to the U.S. dollar as a safe haven. It is not a safe haven, but it is perceived that way by some people. Thatís why the dollar is going up. Thatís why I own it. Will I own it in five years, ten years? I don't know.† It makes it extremely difficult for the investor looking for acceptable risk/reward, or the saver looking to protect their purchasing power; as in Rogers' view, all options have their problems: I own gold and silver and precious metals. I own all commodities, which is a better way to play as they debase currencies. I own more agriculture than just about anything else in real assets because of the reasons we discussed before. We were talking before about the risk-free or worry-free investment. Even gold: the Indian politicians are talking about coming down hard on gold, and India is the largest buyer of gold in the world. If Indian politicians do something -- whether itís foolish or not is irrelevant -- if they do something, gold could go down a lot. So I own it. Iím not selling it. But everything has problems. To Rogers, the bigger danger that concerns him is the hollowing out of the 'saving class' resulting from this situation. Central planners' policies are punishing the prudent in favor of rescuing the irresponsible. This has happened before in world history, and the aftermath has always had grievous economic, social -- and often human -- costs: Throughout our history ñ any countryís history ñ the people who save their money and invest for their future are the ones that you build an economy, a society, and a nation on. In America, many people saved their money, put it aside, and didnít buy four or five houses with no job and no money down. They did what most people would consider the right thing, and what historically has been the right thing. But now, unfortunately, those people are being wiped out, because they are getting 0% return, or virtually no return, on their savings and their investments. Weíre wiping them out at the expense of people who went deeply into debt, people who did what most people would consider the wrong thing at the expense of people who did the right thing. This, long-term, has terrible consequences for any nation, any society, any economy. If you go back in history, you'll see what happened to the Germans when they wiped out their savings class in the 1920s. It didnít lead to good things down the road for Germany. It didnít lead to good things for Italy, which did the same thing. There were plenty of countries where it wiped out the people who saved and invested for their future. Itís usually a serious, political reaction, desperation in some cases, and looking for a savior and easy answers is usually what happens when you destroy the people who save and invest for the future. Click the play button below to listen to Chris' interview with Jim Rogers (18m:59s): Click here to read the full transcript
