Japan posted a record November trade deficit, data showed Wednesday, underscoring how soaring energy bills have weighed on the country's trade balance despite a jump in exports. Government figures showed a 35.1 percent on-year rise to a 1.29 trillion yen ($12.6 billion) deficit, the worst result for November and the 17th straight month of shortfall -- the longest stretch since comparable data began more than three decades ago. Japan's energy imports surged after the 2011 Fukushima crisis forced the shutdown of the country's nuclear reactors, which once supplied a third of the nation's power. A sharp decline in the yen, which is good for exporters' profitability, has also forced up the cost of importing pricey fossil-fuels to plug the country's energy gap. The yen has been under pressure since Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who took office late last year, launched a policy blitz that meshed government spending with a central bank monetary easing plan unveiled in April. The policy drive, dubbed Abenomics, is aimed at rebooting the world's third-largest economy, which has suffered from growth-sapping deflation for years. Wednesday's trade figures come on the back of slowing GDP growth after a sizzling expansion that saw Japan outpace other G7 nations in the first half of the year. Japan's third-quarter economic growth came in at a final reading of 0.3 percent, down from an initial figure of 0.5 percent -- and a sharp slowdown from 0.9 percent growth in the previous quarter. But firms appear to be taking the slowdown in their stride. On Monday, a Bank of Japan survey that polls more than 10,000 companies showed business confidence has soared to a six-year high. Part of the reason is the sharp weakening of the yen over the past year, which has seen Japanese exporters such as Sony and Toyota booking rosy profits as the cheaper unit made them more competitive overseas while inflating repatriated earnings. That benefit showed up in the trade data as exports last month rose 18.4 percent to 5.90 trillion yen, backed by robust shipments of automobiles. Imports soared 21.1 percent to 7.19 trillion yen, owing to Japans' hefty bills for oil and gas purchases. Exports expanded in most major regions, with US-bound shipments up 21.2 percent to 1.13 trillion yen while those to the European Union rose 19.4 percent to 599.4 billion yen. Goods shipped to Japan's biggest trading partner China surged 33.1 percent to 1.14 trillion yen, as the impact of a consumer boycott on Japanese brands fades. The boycott came after a Tokyo-Beijing territorial dispute over islands in the East China Sea set off protests in China and soured already testy relations between the Asian giants. As the conservative prime minister nears his one-year anniversary, there is rising speculation that the central bank will expand its easing programme -- which injects vast sums into the financial system -- as growth slows and consumers prepare for a sales tax hike that critics fear will derail a budding recovery. Tokyo has approved a spending package worth almost $54 billion to offset the tax hike -- to 8.0 percent from 5.0 percent -- seen as crucial to bring down Japan's huge national debt. Analysts have warned that Abe's bold pro-growth programme is not enough on its own without promised economic reforms. A proposed shake-up, including loosening labour laws and signing free trade deals, is seen as key to ushering in lasting change. ¬† Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Susan Walsh/AP ImagesBen Bernanke invented the practice of giving an occasional press conference after an FOMC decision as a way to further explain monetary policy decisions. Indeed, one of Bernanke's legacies has been his commitment to transparency and better Fed communication (for better or worse). Anyway, tomorrow is his last ever scheduled press conference, though not his last ever meeting at the helm, which will be in January. Here's Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading: Although tomorrow is not Chairman Bernankeís last FOMC meeting, it is his final scheduled press conference. As we have noted several times since the FOMCís September surprise, if the Fed remains consistent in its interpretation of the data, there will be no action tomorrow. The large risk to our view is that the Fed has been anything but consistent in its interpretation of data. That being said, that does not mean there is not room for some interesting action. Considering taper versus non-taper have been such ìclose callsî at the last few meetings and this is the Chairmanís final press conference, it is fair to expect the chairman to lay out the ìExitî or more appropriately ìNo More Entryî strategy tomorrow. The last time the Chairman did this was the June 19th FOMC meeting when among other things he cited the 7% Unemployment Rate would be where purchases would likely end. Obviously, the Chairman subsequently backed off that guidance and the Unemployment Rate is at 7% now. The difference between tomorrow and the June meeting is whatever the Chairman lays out tomorrow should be imminent (next couple meetings) policy.
Franec via FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. When Adjusting Your Portfolio In 2014, Consider Some Of 2013's Losers  (WealthManagement.com)  Instead of chasing investments that had a successful run in 2013, Tim McLaughlin of WealthManagement.com suggests that investors try a contrarian approach and go after "2013's real stinkers." "Take the Nuveen Tradewinds Value Opportunities Fund. The $562 million fund was the second-worst performing U.S. mutual fund in 2012, according to Lipper data that compared how the fund stacked up against its peers," he writes. "The fund posted a 2.05 percent return, underperforming its peer funds by 13.28 percentage points, according to Lipper. But if you'd thrown your cash behind the fund in 2013, you would be up 24 percent while beating its benchmark and peer funds by 3 points and 1.4 points, respectively." Enforcement Actions Result In Record Penalties Against Wrongdoers (SEC)  The SEC filed 686 enforcement actions in the fiscal year that ended in September. The $3.4 billion in penalties resulting from these actions were up 10% on the year and were a record high. Many of these actions were against stock exchanges and other participants, with the largest single penalty coming from NASDAQ, which agreed to pay a $10 million penalty for the Facebook IPO fiasco. "A strong enforcement program helps produce financial markets that operate with integrity and transparency, and reassures investors that they can invest with confidence," Mary Jo White, Chair of the SEC, said in a press release. The Top 5 Resolutions Of Financial Advisors In 2014 (ThinkAdvisor)  A survey of 800 advisors by SEI Advisor Network shows the five top resolutions for advisors as they head into 2014. 1. 85% of those polled said their top resolution for 2014 was increasing referrals from current clients. 2. Not center most knowledge about client relationships in a few key people, with 67% citing this as a top priority. 3.Integrate technology into their practice not only because more clients will expect it but because it will increase efficiency, with 59% citing this as a priority. 4. Reaching out beyond their own network in finding new clients, with 59% citing this as a priority. 5. Advisors pledge to be more selective when picking new clients, with 48% citing this as a priority. Short-Term Investment Results Are Dictated By Luck (Credit Suisse)  Credit Suisse's Michael Mauboussin thinks short-term investment results are largely dependent on luck, but not necessarily for the reason than one might think. "There is a lot of skill in markets and investors themselves are all very similarly skillful ñ this is reflected in prices," Mauboussin said in a video from Credit Suisse. "As a consequence, that leaves more to luck and is the reason why short-term outcomes can mostly be put down to luck. Having said that, any serious study of past investment performance demonstrates that differential skill does play a role. Some investors clearly have more skill than others. But, by and large, especially in the short-term, luck mostly dictates the results."† Why Couples Need To Jointly Attend Financial Planning Meetings (FA Mag)  Fidelity Investments think that couples should jointly attend financial planning meetings. 31% of women say their husbands are the primary contact, compared with 13% of men who say their wives are, according to a Fidelity study cited by FA Mag. Men worry about their spouse being unprotected in the event of their death, but their failure to jointly participate in the financial planning process can lead to just that.
REUTERSManhattan district judge Jed Rakoff is no stranger to financial cases.¬†The former prosecutor with the U.S. Attorney's office has prosecuted against, judged on, and written about white collar crime before. But in a new essay for the New York Review of Books, Rakoff delivers his most blistering critique of the post-financial crisis legal paradigm. In "The Financial Crisis: Why Have No High-Level Executives Been Prosecuted?"¬†Rakoff writes how the Justice Department has failed in its basic duties.  Gone are the days when the government would actually go after a firm's top brass. Remember the savings and loans kingpins? Even Enron wasn't that long ago. In terms of retribution for the financial crisis, we're basically seeing drawn out slap-on-the-wrist fines with very little admission of wrongdoing (if any) and no real top executives implicated. For its part, the Justice Department has argued it is difficult to prove intent in these financial crisis cases. But Rakoff pooh-poohs that, writing that there are things called "willful blindness" or "conscious disregard" ‚Äî upon which¬†federal prosecutors have asked juries to infer intent before. Perhaps there's a more complex reason. Perhaps the government actually engendered the conditions that made the financial crisis even possible in the first place. From the New York Review of Books: One does not necessarily have to adopt the view of Neil Barofsky, former special inspector general in charge of oversight of¬†TARP, that regulators made almost no effort to hold accountable the financial institutions they were bailing out, to wonder whether the government, having helped create the conditions that led to the seeming widespread fraud in the mortgage-backed securities market, was all too ready to forgive its alleged perpetrators. Please do not misunderstand me. I am not suggesting that the government knowingly participated in any of the fraudulent practices alleged by the Financial Inquiry Crisis Commission and others. But what I am suggesting is that the government was deeply involved, from beginning to end, in helping create the conditions that could lead to such fraud, and that this would give a prudent prosecutor pause in deciding whether to indict a¬†CEO¬†who might, with some justice, claim that he was only doing what he fairly believed the government wanted him to do. It's a pretty damning account of the the Justice Department's many excuses. Read Rakoff's whole piece here ¬ª
ST. LOUIS (Reuters) - The U.S. Treasury Department's anti money-laundering unit is warning businesses linked to the digital currency Bitcoin that they may have to comply with federal law and regulation as money transmitters, a Treasury spokesman said. Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) has sent "industry outreach" letters to about a dozen firms, regarding potential anti-money laundering compliance obligations related to Bitcoin businesses, FinCEN spokesman†Steve Hudak told Thomson Reuters' regulatory information service Compliance Complete. Bitcoin, which unlike conventional money is bought and sold on a peer-to-peer network independent of any central authority, has grown popular among users who lack faith in the established banking system. It has also raised concerns among law-enforcement authorities that digital currencies could be used for laundering money. The letters have had a "chilling effect" on Bitcoin businesses, which are intimidated by the threat of civil and criminal sanctions for non-compliance, said Jon Matonis, executive director of the Bitcoin Foundation, an advocacy group. The firms, he said, may effectively be "put out of business in an extrajudicial manner." Brad Jacobsen, a lawyer representing one Bitcoin businessman who received a letter from FinCEN, said his client has chosen to suspend his business activity "while state and federal compliance matters are considered and/or appropriate exemptions are determined." FinCEN's letters, which ask recipients for more information about their business models, put the firms on notice that there is a legal "gray area," so they are "better off to err on the side of caution" and comply with†FinCEN's rules, Matonis said. Certain Bitcoin businesses came under†FinCEN†regulation in March when the Treasury bureau issued guidance defining some players in the digital currency industry as money transmitters. For more than a decade the money-transmission industry, which includes firms such as Western Union and†PayPal, has been required to enact anti-money laundering controls, report suspicious activity, register with FinCEN and obtain state licenses. These steps are required to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act, the main anti-money laundering statute, and avoid running afoul of a federal law that bans unlicensed money transmitters. While some Bitcoin businesses reject FinCEN's assertion that they are money transmitters, a number have still registered with the agency, a search of the Treasury bureau's website shows. FinCEN sent letters to Bitcoin-related businesses on the Internet that appeared to fall under its definition of money transmitters but had not registered, Hudak said. He said FinCEN will keep sending letters to unregistered Bitcoin businesses. "As we come across them, and as people tip us off, we'll make inquiries. That is part of what we do," Hudak said. PUTTING BUSINESSES ON HOLD Mike Caldwell, who runs a business out of his Utah home that accepts digital bitcoins from customers and turns them into metal coins that hold the "private key" needed to redeem the currency, received one of†FinCEN's letters, as first reported by the online publication Wired. Jacobsen, Caldwell's lawyer, told Compliance Complete that "out of an abundance of caution" Caldwell's business,†Casascius LLC, reacted to the letter by registering with†FinCEN†and suspending business activity. "Laws and regulations related to virtual currencies are in a state of flux and we are working to determine how to appropriately comply with any that are applicable to our client.†Casascius LLC†is committed to furthering the use and acceptance of Bitcoins but is also committed to complying with applicable law," Jacobsen said. The identities of the other recipients of†FinCEN's letters are not known. NEW ENFORCEMENT PRECEDENT A legal expert with years of experience representing digital currency firms said†FinCEN†seemed to be establishing a new regulatory enforcement precedent by warning individual businesses of compliance obligations before taking action. "Is this setting a new standard that in the future if there are any questionable business models there will be notice given before any action is taken?" said†Carol Van Cleef, a partner with the Washington law firm†Patton Boggs LLP. In response, Hudak said the letters are an attempt at gathering information. He likened them to the letters that banks sometimes send to customers seeking information about the customer's transactions in an effort to determine whether suspect transactions are truly linked to illicit activity. (This article was produced by the Compliance Complete service of Thomson Reuters Accelus. Compliance Complete (http://bit.ly/16Ebxub) provides a single source for regulatory news, analysis, rules and developments, with global coverage of more than 230 regulators and exchanges. Follow Accelus compliance news on Twitter: @GRC_Accelus) (Editing by Randall Mikkelsen and David Gregorio)
The current stock market rally has been a pretty smooth, upward ride for investors. But it's been a whopping 553 days since we've been in a healthy 10%+ sell-off. Are we past due for a correction? "A correction is not past due," writes David Bianco in his 2014 outlook. Bianco runs us through the history of corrections in his note: S&amp;P 500 corrections of 10% or more, including those that turned into bear markets, occur nearly every 1.5 years (357 trading days) on average since 1957. The last correction began over two years ago (550 trading days) in the summer of 2011, but that correction was severe and nearly a bear market with a 19% decline. But more importantly, there is enormous variation around the mean of trading days between corrections. The STD is higher than the mean, thus a correction is not more than 80% likely, based on precedent since 1957, until 750 days from the last correction. Moreover, corrections are less frequent the past 25 years vs. the past 50+ years. From 1990 to 1997 the S&amp;P avoided a 10%+ decline (1994 was close), also from April 2003 to September 2007. Thus 4 years without a correction is possible, especially if earnings climb and inflation and interest rates stay low vs. history, but a higher PE raises the risk. So, we've seen longer periods without corrections in the past. But that doesn't mean we're in the clear. It's worth noting that Bianco sees the S&amp;P 500 climbing to just 1,850 in 2014.¬† This is the lowest target coming from the strategists followed by Business Insider. Deutsche Bank
At the start of December, Bitcoin topped out at over $1,200 as e-currency evangelists trumpeted the endless possibilities to be unleashed, comparing it to the breakthroughs not achieved since the start of the internet revolution. ¬†Bitcoiners claimed market disruption would bring credit card companies and payment platforms such as Western Union to their knees.¬† Some even claimed that Bitcoin would supplant the U.S. dollar as the new global reserve currency. ¬†Adding more helium to the story, the Winklevoss twins of Facebook fame, not being shy about talking up their own book, predicted prices would rise to a staggering $40,000 per coin. And from January to December 2013, markets obeyed with prices rising over 8,000 percent. ¬†In the mist of this hype, it appeared that the Bitcoin Revolution was on its way to transforming the economy, putting central bankers out of work and minting new e-currency millionaires daily. ¬†Bitcoin was priced for perfection. This past week, however, the market didn‚Äôt stick to the script.¬† Instead it began to challenge the rhetoric, knocking prices down as low as $535, a drop of about 55 percent from recent highs. ¬†The market has finally realized that hype alone cannot support lofty prices. ¬†Bitcoin is not a legitimate currency but simply a risky virtual commodity bet. Flawed DNA Since inception, Bitcoin has had a flawed DNA. ¬†It was dreamed up in a virtual world -- by computer geeks -- but was to be applied in the real world. ¬†Bitcoin is steep in Libertarian and anti-Fed dogma but weak in understanding of how global economics, central banking policies and financial markets function. ¬†The lifeblood of the global capital markets is money ‚Äì greenbacks -- transactional currency that facilitates commerce. ¬†Virtual currency can create value and efficiency but it needs to be linked to fiscal and monetary policy. ¬†To assume currency can be computer generated, run in a decentralized manner and outside of the central banking system and controls is farcical and economically dangerous. For currency to be adopted as a medium of exchange there has to be trust in the ability to honor the underlying obligation and the ability for central banking policy to control inflation. ¬†Historically the Fed has done a remarkable job maintain an average inflation rate of no greater than 2.5 percent. ¬†Given that two-thirds of U.S. GDP is driven by consumption, price stability in currency is essential. ¬†Without it, GDP growth is retarded and standard of living shrinks.¬† Even from a basic operational standpoint there are major flaws in Bitcoin structure. ¬†For example, it is assumed that miners will behave in a responsible way and not game the system for greater financial reward.¬† Ignored is the human element and need for controls to keep pace as increases in market prices increase incentives to cheat. ¬†Fraud is also on the rise. ¬†Recently reported was that $220 million in Bitcoins were stolen and not recovered (Business Insider, 12/4/13). Meantime, the inherent secrecy of coin ownership decreases the ability to prevent and potentially solve crimes.¬† There is also little legal protection for investors and significant financial risk if an owner‚Äôs hard drive gets corrupted, the computer is stolen or lost, rendering Bitcoin Wallets permanently lost. ¬†Should transfer instructions be incorrect and payments credited to a wrong account, Bitcoin transfers are not easily reversible. ¬†Moreover, the Bitcoin authenticity process also takes time which is not conducive to high volume retail sales where customers want to get in, pay for their goods and get out with no delay. In contrast, storeowners will be hesitant to have customers walk out the door with product, especially if authenticity process is not completed. Unfit as a Currency Bitcoin lacks the essential attributes that are needed to support a widely recognized transactional currency. ¬†If Bitcoin was allowed to proliferate as a currency it would produce greater economic uncertainty, reduced trade and lower individual standard of living. Bitcoin has not taken off as a transactional currency and is further undermined by the fact that the majority of Bitcoin owners hoard e-coins. The more hoarded the less available to buy goods and services and spur economic growth. In Bitcoin World it is not uncommon for prices to change by 20 or 30 percent in a given day, making Bitcoin toxic to economic growth.¬† Price swings produce conflicting behavior. ¬†Retailers work on tight margins, sometimes as low as 10 percent.¬† Such daily price fluctuations would eliminate all profit and inflict needless losses. ¬†Unless retailers want to be in the commodity trading business, they would not be interested in taking Bitcoin risk.¬† At restaurants, Bitcoiners expecting coin values to drop might rush to pay for dinner even before the first entree arrives while restaurateurs would be motivated to delay payment until the drop occurred.¬† If Bitcoin owners believe value would increase, they would hoard more coins and velocity of money would decline, harming economic growth. In this Bitcoin World of currency uncertainty, guessing and risk, commerce would decline and bartering would increase. ¬†Naturally, as Bitcoin price swings increased, the number of businesses willing to accept e-currency risk would decline. ¬†This is why in recent weeks, as large price movements have occurred, we have seen more credible retailers saying ‚ÄúNo‚Äù to Bitcoin.¬† High-Risk Commodity Bitcoin has been trading like an out-of-control rollercoaster with price movements in 2013 climbing from $13 to $1,200 and then in only a week, careening down to a low of $535. ¬†This high-test virtual commodity has 8 times the volatility of the S&amp;P 500 and presents significant liquidity risk.¬† There are now over 12 million Bitcoins outstanding.¬† This volume of ownership has not been bear-market tested and if enough sellers try to run for the door it is not clear that existing infrastructure is capable of executing trade orders without significant time delays and price risk.¬† The buying and selling of Bitcoin is also controlled by only a handful of exchanges in places like China, Slovenia and Bulgaria. ¬†These exchanges are based on a peer-to-peer model and regulation is light with price disparities between exchanges commonplace. Exchange bankruptcies are not uncommon.¬† In November, GBL, a Hong Kong based Bitcoin exchange closed it‚Äôs doors, costing investors over $4 million. As a virtual commodity, it is a high-risk bet in a wild-west atmosphere, requiring speculators to stay cautiously alert. China Pricked the Bubble Every asset bubble has three stages; growth, maturity and pop. ¬†Growth started in 2011, followed by the maturity stage in 2013 and now the pop stage. ¬†The pin that burst the Bitcoin hyper bubble was China. Ironically, China, the second largest economy in the world, helped push Bitcoin prices to the clouds and now is pulling prices back to earth.¬† In the last week, China has delivered three knockdown punches.¬† First the central bank forbade its banks from accepting Bitcoin as currency.¬† Then, Baidu, China‚Äôs Google equivalent, announced it would no longer process Bitcoins.¬† Finally, China banned third-party payment companies from transacting with Bitcoin exchanges.¬† This last announcement significantly weakens market liquidity for BTC China, the largest Bitcoin exchange.¬† By voting ‚ÄúNo‚Äù on Bitcoin, China fueled greater market skepticism. ¬†Markets have already responded by lopping off, at the low, $6 billion in Bitcoin investment value. Other wealthy and powerful countries have taken a similar position, warning against the risks of this wannabe currency. ¬†Moves by European Banking Authority representing the largest economy in the world, France, the fifth largest economy and Norway, the wealthiest in Scandinavia all point to a growing number of roadblocks. ¬†Last month, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke indicated e-currency ‚Äúmay have long-term promise‚Äù but his statement was not a ringing endorsement for Bitcoin adoption.¬† To the contrary, as large price swings continue, U.S. and other G20 countries will raise concerns, restrictions and begin clamping down on virtual currencies.¬† Bitcoin has seen an end to its hyper price run-up and can no longer support being priced for perfection. ¬†Unlike gold which has tangible value, Bitcoin is backed by hopes/dreams and only worth what people are willing to pay.¬† As it becomes increasingly evident that Bitcoin will not be the global currency standard, but simply a novel idea that will be improved upon by more nimble competitors such as Litecoin, restrictions and new regulations will be imposed and prices will plummet. I predict that Bitcoin will trade for under $10 a share by the first half of 2014, single digit pricing reflecting its option value as a pure commodity play.¬† Miners/speculators will be best served to acknowledge the meltdown has begun, act quickly and take fleeting profit off the table.¬† (Williams, a former commodities trading floor senior executive and Federal Reserve bank examiner, teaches finance at Boston University School of Management.)
Williamsburg, Brooklyn is pretty much synonymous with "gentrification," and these U.S. Census maps showing median household income from the past two decades show you why. Median household income in the Williamsburg Census tracts has shifted drastically over the past two decades, with much of the change happening between 2000 and 2012. The most gentrified areas ‚Äî the waterfront in north Williamsburg around Kent Avenue and the area surrounding the Bedford Avenue L train stop ‚Äî are now seeing median household incomes reach about $80,000 and up. The maps below show how much Williamsburg has changed since 1990. Darker color corresponds with higher income. Screenshot/U.S. Census Screenshot/U.S. Census  Screenshot/U.S. Census Screenshot/U.S. Census
The Census department has produced a fantastic interactive website that breaks down America's census tracts by median household income, age, education and a few other stats. Basically, it's now easier than ever to see whether you're wealthier and more educated than your neighbors. Census tracts are extremely granular, so you can basically zoom in on your exact address. You can also go back to 1990 data. Census Census
Wearing Black Tie is simple. Unlike any other outfit ‚Äì the rules defining it are clearly laid out. There is room for ‚Äúslight‚Äù ‚Äì and I mean slight ‚Äì variation. But by following the instructions in this visual guide you will be one of the best dressed men at any black tie event. Real Men Real Style Have a question about how your black tie clothing should fit ‚Äì¬†click here to see my visual guide to how a suit should fit. Need to know how to tie a bow tie ‚Äì¬†click here for my clear visual instruction on how to tie a bow tie. Want to tie it all together and learn¬†how to dress like James Bond? ¬†Watch the video below. 
Olivia Harris / REUTERSFrom Batman's Alfred Pennyworth to¬†Downton Abbey's Carson, the British Butler is a character that has been immortalized in pop culture countless times.¬† Though the British model of home service has been around for centuries, it continues to rise in popularity in affluent households all over the world. Sara Vestin Rahmani founded the British Butler Academy to meet the growing demand.¬† "Anyone trained in the British method has the potential to become very good," Vestin Rahmani said to Business Insider. "In Britain we have this old-school hierarchy and military tradition that's really important, especially because the royal family is very prominent. Other markets and other countries are fascinated by that."¬† Vestin Rahmani and her team of 25 butler instructors aim to recreate that model in homes across the United Kingdom and the world. Courses are taught¬†in central London year-round, catering to private, wealthy individuals who want to have their staff trained in the British tradition.¬†They'll also travel to other countries, including the United States, to troubleshoot with staffs of five-star hotels, restaurants, and even superyachts.¬† "We teach British butlering, but we're a modern trade, so we'll bring it into China, the Middle East, and America," Vestin Rahmani said. Butler trainees go through a rigorous training program that includes 20 different modules: etiquette, silver service, valet, wardrobe management, and pet care, just to name a few.¬†They also learn to behave with tact towards their employers, many of whom draw significant media attention in countries all over the world. "People who hire butlers ‚Äî often the media are interested in them, so discretion and paparazzi security are very important," she said.¬† Though the British tradition is globally known, Vestin Rahmani says that being British isn't the only thing that makes a good butler.¬† "The most important thing is that they need to have service at heart. They've got to love to serve people ‚Äî as long as you work as a butler you're basically giving up your life for the sake of the contract," she said.¬† Reuters photographer Olivia Harris traveled to the Norfolk countryside last July to take a closer look at what goes on during a special intensive session of the British Butler Academy that runs in the summer.¬† Anyone can apply for the intensive 14-day summer course, though only about 1 in 4 applicants will be accepted to the program. It costs about 3,000 pounds for two weeks in Norfolk, where trainees live in residence and practice their skills in situations that mimic real life.¬† "If they're lucky or do really well we can find them a job," Vestin Rahmani said.¬† Here, head butler trainer George Telford leads trainees in carrying punch and canapes during the intensive summer course.¬† ¬†Telford discusses the proper way to carry a cake stand with trainees.¬† "Each time we have meals, everything must be set up to perfection," Vestin Rahmani said. Olivia Harris / REUTERS Telford knew he wanted to be a butler when he was just 11 years old, according to Vestin Rahmani. "He's worked his way up from nothing and has built a great career as a butler," she said. "He represents us really well, also this industry that we're very proud of." Olivia Harris / REUTERS Posture is very important for a butler's image.¬† Olivia Harris / REUTERS Trainee Dwayne Cross learns how to use a feather duster.¬† Olivia Harris / REUTERS Trainee Ben Mandeng serves a glass of champagne to Vestin Rahmani.¬† Olivia Harris / REUTERS
Your first job usually won't be your dream job. Nonetheless, you never forget it. It introduces you to the working world, teaches you how to work hard for your money, and often gives you an idea of what you do and don't want from your career. From washing dishes at a Chinese restaurant to flipping hamburgers at McDonald's, here's what seven billionaires did in their first jobs: As a teenager,¬†Bezos started working at McDonald's during the summer. His dad, Mike, had also worked at McDonald's in the past. Author Cody Teets interviewed Bezos in her book, "Golden Opportunity: Remarkable Careers That Began at McDonald's," about his experience. He said: "I was a grill man and never worked the cash registers. The most challenging thing was keeping everything going at the right pace during a rush. The manager at my McDonald's was excellent. He had a lot of teenagers working for him, and he kept us focused even while we had fun." REUTERS/Richard Brian The tech billionaire got his start in the restaurant business. At the age of 12,¬†Dell worked at a Chinese restaurant washing dishes. He would later be a water boy and assistant maitre d‚Äô at the same place. After he left the Chinese restaurant, Dell worked at a Mexican restaurant. AP While on a full scholarship at Tennessee University, the media mogul worked at a grocery store next to her father's barber shop. ap Bloomberg worked as a parking lot attendant at Harvard and Johns Hopkins universities while getting his college degree. REUTERS/Supri Schwab took the walnuts¬†he found in the woods and sold them in the market. He priced them at $5 for a 100-pound sack. He would later raise chickens and sell eggs at the market. At the age of 14, Schwab got a job as a caddie at a golf course. Chip Somodevilla/Getty Buffett started delivering newspapers on his bicycle at the age of 13. During high school, he moved on to his pinball machine business. AP Images Pickens worked his first paper route at the age of 12 and was paid a penny a paper per day. Within five years, his route grew from 28 to 156 papers and Pickens had saved $200. Wikipedia
REUTERS/Rafael MarchanteA relative waits as naval policemen continue their search for five missing persons at Meco beach, near Sesimbra, December 16, 2013.Stocks made modest moves as the Federal Reserve began its two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Flickr / Tom RafteryTomorrow is a Fed day, and everyone is wondering if they're going to "taper" which means begin to reduce the pace of asset purchases through Quantitative Easing. One possibility is that they might cut back on purchases. Another possibility is that they'll punt and begin those cutbacks early in 2014. Another possibility is that at some point they'll cut back, but do something "dovish" meaning add something to the language to counteract the taper. Citi currency analyst Steven Englander has his breakdown of the possibilities: 5% -- hawkish tapering† -- cut in buying beginning December or January ñ no additional dovish language 35% -- dovish December tapering ñ more commitment in FX/FI than equitiesóFed starts with small taper and adds meaningful additional language to commit to †commit to low policy rates for a long time. (Full disclosure ñ I have a lot of sympathy to this view.) 25% -- No December but concrete January language ñthe language will be íWe expect to begin tapering Öí 15% -- No December, non-committal but language like "If trends continue, we could begin tapering soon †Öí 20% -† We need to see an extended period of improvement in labor markets and demand Ö We'll be covering tomorrow's full Fed festivities LIVE.
Two things used to justify why Wall Street's junior bankers slogged for such ridiculous hours: 1) Insanely high salaries and bonuses and 2) the overlords dropping work on their desks on Friday at 6 p.m. had the same thing done to them. But then about two months ago, Goldman Sachs announced a spate of reforms to ease back on junior staffers. Saturdays are now off, Goldman mandated. Now it seems J.P. Morgan is following Goldman's lead. Both†Dealbreaker's Bess Levin†and†New York Magazine's Kevin Roose†report that the bank will give young bankers one "protected weekend" per month. Sleep in, don't burnout. In part, it's just better "managing the managers," but the change has a lot to do with Wall Street's increasing youth attrition to places like tech companies where, at least if the hours aren't better, you can wear shorts. Roose also reports that "the bank will be hiring more junior staffers next year in order to bring down the average workload from a gazillion hours a week (approximate figure) to something more closely resembling a normal job." Now that Goldman and JPM have eased up, the rest of the Street will presumably follow.
flickr, City of Toronto ArchivesThis could be you.Earlier this year, we considered¬†the math behind deciding when to buy a Powerball ticket. Now, the Mega Millions jackpot has reached a ludicrously high $636 million, and so we decided to repeat the analysis for this lottery‚Äî ahead of tonight's drawing is at 11 PM EST. The most basic thing to consider in any game of chance, whether you are looking at a lottery, a roulette wheel, or a deck of cards in a blackjack game, is your expected winnings from the game. This is basically a measure of how much you will win on average by playing the game a large number of times. The expected winnings for a game can be found if we know the probabilities of the different outcomes in the game, and the earnings (or losses) associated with each outcome. We multiply the probabilities by the earnings or losses, and then add these up. The expected value will tell us what will happen on average if we play a game a large number of times. If the expected value is positive, then on average we are winning money, and so if we play the game long enough, we should end up in the black. If the expected value is negative, then on average we are losing money, and so we should not be playing this game. We can find the expected value for playing Mega Millions with the current ridiculous jackpot. In Mega Millions, you pick five different numbers between 1 and 75, and one number between 1 and 15. If all six match, you win the jackpot. If you match some of the first five numbers and/or the last number, you win a smaller prize. The Mega Millions website helpfully includes the odds of winning either the jackpot, or of winning various smaller prizes. Since the cost of a Mega Millions ticket is $1.00, we can subtract this from each of the prizes to get our actual take home winnings for each of these outcomes, and so find the expected value of a Mega Millions ticket: Business Insider/ Mega Millions The first column shows each outcome ‚Äî how many of the five numbers from 1 to 75 we got right, and whether or not we got the last number from 1 to 15. The second column shows the prize and the third the prize less our investment of a dollar per ticket. In the fourth column, we have the odds of getting each outcome, as per the Mega Millions website. In the fifth column, we convert those odds into a probability between zero and one by taking the reciprocal of the odds. Finally, we multiply together our winnings less investment by the probability, and sum these up, giving us the expected value. Notice that by far our most likely outcome is that we get none of the numbers right. There is about a 93% chance that we just wind up losing our dollar. Despite this, since the jackpot is so enormously high right now, our average winnings are a nice positive $1.63, indicating that we should consider buying a ticket. Another notable property of Mega Millions is that the lower prizes do not help us too much. Without that jackpot, the expected value is a very unhappy ‚Äî$0.82. So, Mega Millions really is all about the jackpot. One factor to consider is that, as with most lotteries, there are two options for the prize: the advertised prize of $636 million is based on a thirty year annuity, receiving the prize in smaller annual chunks for thirty years. The other option is to take cash up front, but at a huge discount. Today's up front cash prize is $341 million ‚Äî a big drop, but nothing to sneeze at. We can find the expected winnings for taking the cash up front: Business Insider/ Mega Millions The expected value of a Mega Millions ticket here is lower ‚Äî just $0.49 as opposed to the $1.63 taking the annuity ‚Äî but it is still positive, and this is still a viable option. There are other confounding factors ‚Äî you also have to consider the effect of taxes, and how that plays with both options. Even though this lottery has a positive expected value, it has an extremely high variance and standard deviation, owing to the fact that there is one very, very unlikely outcome where you do incredibly well, and the overwhelming majority of the time, you just lose a buck. The most interesting confounding factor is the possibility of multiple winners. How many people are playing will affect the odds of a split and the size of the resulting jackpot (whether it is broken in to two parts, or three, or four, or however many winners there are). We can, however, estimate the expected value of a ticket based on how many tickets have been sold, and thus on the odds of a split, and the consequent value of the jackpot: Business Insider The horizontal axis shows the number tickets sold, in millions, and the vertical axis shows the expected value in dollars of a ticket, based on the likelihood of a split, and the size of a split jackpot. The blue curve shows the outcome for taking the annuity prize, and the red line shows the outcome for taking the cash prize. Here, we can see that the expected value of a ticket stays positive (meaning you should consider buying a ticket) as long as fewer than 730 or so million tickets have been sold. The cash prize fares far worse ‚Äî you run into expected losses with only 265 million tickets sold.¬† So, as long as there are fewer than 730 million tickets sold, a fairly likely situation right now, the expected value of a ticket should be positive, and so you should consider buying a Mega Millions ticket today. Bear in mind that there are many caveats to this analysis. Taxes will likely hurt your expected winnings pretty severely ‚Äî the Feds will take about 40%, and your home state will claim anywhere from 0% to around 13%. A lot of people have been buying tickets, and as discussed above, this will greatly increase the odds of a tie, and the reduced payout that goes with it. The value of the annuity opposed to the cash payout can also be a complicated question ‚Äî it is certainly possible that one could take $341 million and, through prudent investment, end up with a better 30 year return than the total advertised value of the $636 million annuity. Given the questionable returns and extreme variance of the lottery, while the expected value of a Mega Millions ticket might be positive, the more cautious investor may want to consider instead adding that dollar to his IRA for a much smaller, although safer, return. Of course, that is a far less fun option than going out and writing your six favorite numbers on a ticket.
YouTube There's been a growing number of protests and demonstrations at Wal-Mart as workers demand higher wages. So libertarian investor Peter Schiff ‚Äî who believes Wal-Mart is under no obligation to pay its workers a dime more ‚Äî went to Wal-Mart and staged an absurd, fake version of their rally in an attempt to prove his point. Schiff, the founder of Euro Pacific Capital, approached shoppers in the retailer's parking lot and told them he was representing an organization called "15 For 15." He said the organization ‚Äî which doesn't actually exist ‚Äî wants Wal-Mart to raise its prices by 15% to support a $15 minimum hourly wage for workers. In reality, the campaign for higher wages at Wal-Mart, led by the labor group OUR Walmart, is asking the retailer to pay its employees at least $25,000 annually, or $13 an hour. Schiff recorded his stunt on video. He asked Wal-Mart patrons whether they supported higher wages for the retailer's workers, and then demanded that they prove their allegiance by giving him 15% of whatever they spent at Wal-Mart that day. He claimed the money would go to Wal-Mart workers. "Would you contribute 15% of the price of that TV for the Wal-Mart workers?" he shouted at a man who was walking across the parking lot carrying a boxed television. The man declined. "But they are counting on you to pay higher prices!" Schiff yelled. The video was clearly edited, but in every case, the shoppers declined to donate money. Perhaps they didn't support the cause. Perhaps they recognized Schiff was a phony. Watch what happened: 
ReutersBill Ackman is short Herbalife.Herbalife (HLF) shares were sent soaring yesterday after PriceWaterhouseCoopers announced the completion of its re-audit of the multi-level marketing companyís financials. The stock price of the nutrition, weight management, and skin-care products company surged upward more than 10% in response to the news. The trading of Herbalife stock this year carries an intriguing storyline featuring a heavyweight showdown between 2 of the hedge-fund industryís biggest juggernauts, Carl Icahn and Bill Ackman. At the end of last year Bill Ackman, founder and CEO of Pershing Square Capital, announced his $1billion bet against the stock and presented his thesis of why he thinks the company is an illegal pyramid scheme. Other investors, most notably Carl Icahn, took the opposite side of the coin and poured their money into Herbalife on the belief that the company had become significantly under-valued. Since Ackmanís claim against the company sent the price tumbling last December, the stock has rallied back and climbed onward on the back of several strong earnings reports. Last night Pershing Square released a statement citing that PwCís job as auditor was to verify the company filed its financial reports according to GAAP accounting standards and gave no indication of whether Herbalife is an illegal pyramid scheme or not. The graph below from†ChartIQ ó Visual Earnings†shows Herbalifeís stock price on the top and the companyís financial report below with green on the bottom portion representing the company has outperformed the Wall Street and Estimize expectations. Estimize The information below is derived from data submitted to the†Estimize†platform by a set of Buy Side and Independent analyst contributors. Estimize Over the past 4 financial quarters since Ackmanís bet against the company, Herbalife has beaten analyst expectations on both earnings per share and revenue every single time and as a result the stock price has continued to push higher. The Wall Street consensus shown in gray represents sell-side analystsí consensus expectations. The Estimize consensus shown in blue represents the expectations of a wider distribution of contributors including hedge-fund fund analysts, asset managers, independent research shops, students, and non professionals. By tapping into a wider range of contributors we have built a data set that is up to 69.5% more accurate than Wall Street, but more importantly it does a better job of representing the marketís true expectations. Confidence ratings for each user are calculated through algorithms developed by our deep quantitative research which look at correlations between analyst track records and tendencies as they relate to future accuracy. We believe that everyoneís opinion matters, regardless of who they are, where theyíre from, or what it says on their business card. Estimize Over the past 2 years when enough data to create a consensus was available the†Estimize community has been more accurate in forecasting EPS all 6 times. Shares of Herbalife could continue to soar over the next 6 months as our contributing analysts are expecting 2 more consecutive periods of Herbalife beating Wall Street earnings expectations. For next quarter we are seeing a larger differential between the Estimize and Wall Street EPS consensus.†The magnitude of the difference between the Wall Street and Estimize consensus numbers often identifies opportunities to take advantage of expectations that may not have been priced into the market. In this case, weíre seeing a larger differential between the Estimize and Wall Street numbers. Estimize The revenue graph tells a similar story. The Estimize community was more accurate in predicting revenue 5 out of the past 6 times and our contributing analysts are expecting Herbalife to beat Wall Street expectations again when HLF reports its FQ4í13 results in February. Even though our analysts believe that Herbalife can continue to experience large growth over the next 2 quarters, this particular company carries a substantial risk to investors. Although not all multi-level marketing companies are necessarily illegal pyramid schemes, if Ackmanís thesis is determined correct by regulators this stock could become worthless overnight. On the other hand if Herbalife is not shutdown, as it has failed to have been over the past year, this companyís earnings could continue to surge making shareholders a lot of money over the next 6 months. Get access to estimates for Herbalife published by your Buy Side and Independent analyst peers, and register to create your own estimates by heading over to†Estimize†now.
JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon and his family (wife Judy, daughters Kara, Laura and Julia and son-in-law Joey and family dog) have an awesome holiday card.† It's a panoramic photo that captures the chaos and love in the Dimon home in an epic indoor tennis match. † We must say that Jamie Dimon's backhand form is pretty impressive.† You can see the full card at Quartz. Jamie Dimon's holiday card http://t.co/50r5Yr0b4x pic.twitter.com/uMsLuVWl6A
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderSatoshi Nakamoto, the person who created the digital currency Bitcoin, is our person of the year. † Don't laugh.† Although to this day no one knows who Satoshi Nakamoto is (or are ó for the latest theories†check out Chart Girl's running chart) Bitcoin evangelists make the case that his true identity doesn't matter: what he's created is changing the world. It's an assertion you hear a lot in the arts world too: you should know the man (or men, or woman ó there's nothing to suggest Satoshi couldn't be one) by their works, not their biography. This is a convincing argument. Bitcoin wasn't the first digital currency (think World of Warcraft), and,†as we've documented, wasn't the last.  But Satoshi managed to come up with something that is simply more farsighted and bulletproof than anything else, combining the best features of existing digital coins while adding his own perfections.  In particular, he addressed one of the biggest problems in online transactions: fraud. In the real world, it's the job of a centralized authority to prevent that from happening. But Satoshi figured out a workaround by cutting out that middleman: just make all transactions public, and have the entire community confirm a transaction is legit.†"We have proposed a system for electronic transactions without relying on trust," Satoshi wrote in his 2008 spec paper laying out the currency ó a line which, it now seems, will echo through generations. Perhaps his most brilliant idea was making sure you couldn't hack the ability to create excess Bitcoins. Bitcoins are "mined" by computers unscrambling blocks of "hashes" or complex strings of numbers and letters. Satoshi's solution was to continuously increase the difficulty of unscrambling the hashes as more Bitcoins were created. As he wrote, "To compensate for increasing hardware speed ... the proof-of-work difficulty [the unscrambling] is determined by a moving average targeting an average number of blocks per hour. If they're generated too fast, the difficulty increases." Even the folks behind hashcash, an early digital currency which Satoshi admits he was inspired by, had to admit Bitcoin was "an extremely clever innovation and invention," and "a first." But why is Bitcoin such a big deal?†Bank of America analyst David Woo's recent note best boiled down Bitcoin's three main uses: as a store of value, like gold; as a way to buy stuff online, and†as a means for remitting money. And in most instances it's cheaper, easier, and more secure to do all these things with Bitcoin. The first two have been occurring since Bitcoin's birth, and the advent of the last one is imminent. In absolute dollar terms, Bitcoin has already surpassed Western Union for transaction volume, and is nipping at the heels of PayPal.† Of course this is all entirely subjective, and even Bitcoin's most passionate evangelists don't rule out that some technological or regulatory catastrophe could cause its value to plunge to zero. When we decided to name Satoshi "Person of the Year," we considered who and what else has changed society in the past 12 months. We respect the actual choice made by Time ó Pope Francis has a clear set of goals, is hyper aware of the issues of the day, and really lives his religion. Obviously, though, we have a business bias. We were not about to give the title to Paul Volcker, whose rule, while extremely meaningful, does not possess the same kind of worldwide reach as Bitcoin. Ben Bernanke could have gotten it (and possibly the Nobel Peace Prize) every year since 2009, but consecutive years of basically doing the same great stuff rules him out for 2013. Carl Icahn made an extremely impressive case for putting the fear of god into companies, but he is not quite a household name. Neither, of course, is Satoshi. But what were you talking more about over cranberry and stuffing a few weeks ago: Carl Icahn's Tweets? Or regrets about having not gotten in on Bitcoin sooner? One final use of Bitcoin that is often under-discussed: its use as a solution for the "unbanked," or people without access to financial instruments. As with everything Bitcoin, this may seem far-fetched at first blush. How could people who may lack access to the Internet use Bitcoin? But investors have made the case that these communities would use their cell phones ó which are widespread in the developing world ó as the primary medium through which these people would interact with the currency. Possessing the ability to securely send and receive funds from your pocket is a big deal for someone without access to a bank account.† If that takes hold, Bitcoin could even begin nibbling at inequality ó something Pope Francis could respect. †
APSenate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) will vote against confirming Janet Yellen to chair the Federal Reserve, his office told Business Insider on Tuesday.† Yellen is a key architect of current Fed Chair Ben Bernanke's stimulus program. In a statement provided by his office, McConnell suggested Yellen's policies would be more of the same ó and said that her confirmation should be an opportunity to "scrutinize the recent actions and the historic mission of the Fed." "I will not be supporting Janet Yellenís confirmation to the Fed, in large part over serious concerns I have about her commitment to the most important job of the central bank ó maintaining the purchasing power of the dollar," McConnell said in the statement.†"After years of federal stimulus, we need a Fed chairman who is unquestionably committed to a strong dollar. "The confirmation of a new Fed chief is a perfect time for the Senate to scrutinize the recent actions and the historic mission of the Fed. Thatís why I support Senator Paulís bill to audit the Fed and challenge the Democrats to allow it to come up for debate.î McConnell is a co-sponsor of Sen. Rand Paul's (R-Ky.) Federal Reserve Transparency Act. In late October, Paul†said he was considering putting a "hold" on Yellen's nomination†to get a vote on the bill, which supporters argue would bring more transparency to the Fed. A vote on Yellen's confirmation is expected to come later this week. Because of the recent Senate rules change on filibusters, Democrats can now confirm most judicial and executive-branch nominees by simple majority votes rather than the previous 60 needed to break a filibuster. Yellen's nomination passed the Senate Banking Committee by a 14-8 vote on Nov. 21. Republican Sens. Tom Coburn (Okla.), Bob Corker (Tenn.), and Mark Kirk (Ill.) joined 11 of the 12 Democrats on the panel in voting to advance Yellen's nomination.†
Wikimedia CommonsIn a new research note to clients today, Deustche Bank economist Joe LaVorgna reiterates his expectation that the Federal Reserve will announce the tapering of quantitative easing at the conclusion of its Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting on Wednesday. Tapering refers to the gradual reduction of the Federal Reserve's monthly purchases of $45 billion worth of Treasury securities and $40 billion worth of mortgage bonds. The program has been intended to stimulate the economy by keeping interest rates low and credit market liquidity high. From LaVorgna's note titled "'Twas The Night Before Taper..." We are looking for a $10 billion Treasuries only taperówe have been projecting this since the much stronger-than-expected October employment data (reported on November 8), which was subsequently matched by a similarly strong November employment report. Current quarter growth prospects continue to brighten with second half output poised to average over 3%. Moreover, the budget sequester was loosened, as we also had anticipated, so there is little reason for the Fed to delay tapering, in our view. The fact that the 10-year Treasury yield is at nearly the same level as it was right before the September FOMC, while the timing of the initial rate hike was pushed out at least six months from early 2015 to late 2015, tells us that the financial markets are indeed expecting a taper. There is now much less concern on behalf of monetary policymakers that a taper will engender a further tightening in financial market conditions. Indeed, since the September non-taper, equity prices are higher and credit spreads are tighter... "The Fed will blunt any negative reaction to a taper by strengthening the forward guidance through a lower unemployment rate threshold," he said. Most economists will acknowledge the points LaVorgna makes. Still, the consensus is that we won't here about tapering until January or March. One of the most common arguments against tapering has been inflation, which has been surprisingly low. Many also note that the numbers behind the falling unemployment rate are still quite week. We'll find out tomorrow.
Business Insider, Google Finance This week marks the one year anniversary of when hedge fund manager Bill Ackman publicly declared that he's shorting Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells nutritional supplements and weightloss shakes.¬† In late December 2012, Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, gave a 342-slide presentation detailing why he believes Herbalife is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income individuals, particularly from the Hispanic population. Robin Hood Foundation Bill Ackman At that special Sohn Conference, Ackman revealed that he was short $1 billion worth of the the stock with a price target of $0. He said that¬†regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, would be induced to investigate and shut the company down. ¬† After Ackman revealed his massive short, a number of hedge fund managers, most notably Ackman's long-time rival Carl Icahn, piled on by going long the stock.¬† Other fund managers who are long the stock include George Soros and Richard Perry. ¬†Stanley Druckenmiller and Kyle Bass recently disclosed long positions in Herbalife.¬†Daniel Loeb of Third Point was briefly long Herbalife during the first quarter and exited for a $50 million profit. ¬†Bill Stiritz, the CEO/chairman of food company Post Holdings, is the largest individual shareholder of Herbalife. ¬† Icahn, who has made hundreds of millions of dollars on his long position, has said he believes Ackman will be the victim of "the mother of all short squeezes."¬† So far, the market hasn't agreed with Ackman's short.¬† Since December 18, 2012, the trading session before Ackman publicly confirmed his short, shares of risen more than 76 percent. And ever since December 20, 2012, the date of the special Sohn Conference where he shared his massive short thesis, shares of Herbalife have skyrocketed 122 percent. ¬†Shares are up more than 132 percent year-to-date.¬† Ackman is known for being mostly a long-only/value investor who has large positions in a handful of stocks. ¬†He rarely ever shorts. Even with Herbalife and his JCPenney disaster from earlier this year, he's up about 10% this year¬†Reuters recently reported. ¬† In early October, Ackman said in a letter to investors that he repositioned his $1 billion short by swapping more than 40 percent of the equity short position for put options in an effort to reduce risk. In late November, Ackman estimated that he had about $400 to $500 million in mark-to-market losses. Shares of Herbalife have climbed more than 4 percent higher since then. ¬†Despite those losses, he¬†has said he will take this short "to the end of the earth." AP ImagesCarl Icahn The most recent blow to Ackman came yesterday when PriceWaterhouseCoopers put their seal of approval on the company's financials during a re-audit. ¬†Earlier this year, Herbalife's former auditor KPMG resigned after it was revealed one of their partners had leaked non-public information to a third party. Investors were waiting for the re-audit to come out. ¬† Shares of Herbalife surged on that news yesterday when PwC found nothing wrong. Despite that setback on his trade, Ackman made it clear that he still believes the company is a pyramid scheme that regulators will investigate. ¬† "It is not the role of Herbalife‚Äôs auditor to determine if the company is a pyramid scheme.¬† Rather, that determination depends on whether distributors earn more from recruiting new distributors than from retail sales to consumers who are not distributors.¬† The few Herbalife distributors that make money earn the vast majority of their profits from recruiting.¬† Herbalife is a pyramid scheme that will be shut down by regulators," Ackman said in a release. ¬†
Flickr via serendipity_photographyThe United States is home to more millionaires than any other country. According to one recent report, there are¬†5,220,000 millionaire households in the U.S. ‚Äî almost five times the number in China and 10 times the number in the U.K. So while it's rare, it's not impossible to break into the elusive 1%. But what do they know that the other 99% don't?¬† There's one key investing concept millionaires have mastered, according to¬†Brent Fykes, a senior investment partner at GenSpring:  They know when to stop being greedy. Most average investors "tend to want to dabble in the stock market and buy the latest hot stock like¬†Facebook¬†or¬†Apple," Fykes¬†told Bankrate.com.¬† But wealthy investors "by nature are less risky because they've created a nest egg and don't need it to grow at incredible rates," he says. "They just want to¬†stay¬†rich. On the whole, the 99% is in the¬†get¬†rich mode." And that's where we get tripped up ‚Äî going after what's inevitably too good to be true, not playing it safe, and¬†overreacting to the market. This passage from Investopedia drives the point home: Perhaps the No. 1 killer of investment return is your emotions. The axiom that fear and greed rule the market is true. Do not let fear or greed overtake you. Focus on the bigger picture. Stock market returns may deviate wildly over a shorter time frame, but over the long term, historical returns for large cap stocks can average 10% to 11%. Realize that, over a long time horizon, your portfolio's returns should not deviate much from those averages. In fact, you may benefit from the irrational decisions of other investors.¬†
REUTERS/ Lucas JacksonOne depressing, if not mildly funny corollary of recent finance scandals has been the subsequent release of a trove of incriminating trader instant messages. The Libor rigging affair, for example, had traders promising each other booze and sushi for interest rate cooperation. Banks didn't like that (at least afterwards). So as a result, Bloomberg has rolled out a new "Compliance Center" on its terminals to streamline the process by which firms make sure their traders aren't doing illegal things. According to Bloomberg, the new center is "a single location containing administration, monitoring, search, and retention capabilities designed to give a comprehensive, real-time view into firm-wide communications." Compliance officers can now hit "CMPC &lt;go&gt;" on their terminals, according to the FT, to "bring up a screen allowing†them a range of options, including monitoring employeesí communications or blocking words, whether profanities or perhaps ñ given tradersí record of promising each other alcoholic incentives ñ 'Bollinger'". Bloomberg's clients have been cracking down internally on mischievous trader chats. According to one report, JP Morgan's Jamie Dimon told his London office, "Don't exaggerate, don't ruminate, don't bullshit," over chat. At least they have Snapchat. Check out the full release from Bloomberg below: Compliance Made Easy: Introducing the Bloomberg Compliance Center Bloomberg pioneered one of the first private messaging systems in the early 1990s. Today, Bloomberg subscribers send more than 15 million instant messages ñ and 200 million emails ñ every day. Recently, there has been discussion around the use of chat rooms, and our clients have expressed interest in more precise and reliable communication-related compliance tools. While market participants rely on the security, stability and consistency of the Instant Bloomberg chat service to view securities, share information and engage in trade negotiations, compliance officers want a better way to manage these communications. That is why we centralized our existing compliance tools into the Bloomberg Compliance Center: a single location containing administration, monitoring, search, and retention capabilities designed to give a comprehensive, real-time view into firm-wide communications. Compliance tools have always been available on Instant Bloomberg, but we felt it important to centralize this information onto one dashboard. The Bloomberg Compliance Center provides authorized users with direct access to: In addition to the Bloomberg Compliance Center, weíre developing stronger reporting capabilities and permissioning tools that enable authorized firm administrators to better manage multi-party chat room participation. Our customers understand the important value that Instant Bloomberg provides in conducting their business; they also want state-of-the-art compliance tools to ensure sustained success. As an independent company with a customer base of both buy and sell-side firms, Bloomberg serves a unique and important role in the financial markets. At Bloomberg, our focus is always on helping our clients more effectively achieve their goals and objectives. As new regulations and market complexities shape the financial world, we will continue to be responsive to our customersí needs and growing market demands.
You don't get to be the CEO of a private equity firm without seeing a few things on Wall Street. And in an interview with finance career site OneWire, Jeff Kelter, CEO and Founder of private equity firm KTR Capital Partners says that in his time in the business, what he's seen is that the road to Wall Street glory is changing. It used to be that you went to a bulge bracket firm (JP Morgan, Goldman... what have you) as an analyst, worked your way up to associate, then went to business school. Armed with your MBA, you could join the buy-side. And boom just like that ó instant finance pro. Not so anymore, says Kelter. ìI have kids that come see me now after graduating from college and they say I want to go through an analyst program, and then I want to get my MBA, and then I want to go into real estate. And they forget the marketing side and they forget the operating side.î But Wall Street needs people that know marketing. It needs people that know how to run a business. ìThere are a lot of people who want to do finance and not a lot of jobs,î he explains, ìSo sequentially, it almost doesnít matteróif you go into marketing first and you work for a real estate company leasing space, you can check that box. Then you go to business school and you start learning the financial aspects of real estate and check that box. And then you go learn the operating side of the business. And so the sequence can be different today than it was when I did it.î To hear how Kelter did it, watch the full interview below and visit OneWire to subscribe to the series. 
RBC Capital MarketsDOW JONES INDUSTRIAL: Secular lows defined by the 10-year (40-quarter) rate-of-change falling below zero. Here's a chart that's been popping up in Wall Street's stock market research reports. It's the rolling 10-year returns of the stock market. The version comes from Robert Sluymer, a technical analyst for RBC Capital Markets. It tells us that a trough in these returns coincides with the beginning of a a long-term (i.e. secular) bull market in stocks. Bulls believe this chart means there is no stock market that's doomed to burst any time soon. And it's not just the chart gurus writing about this. Strategists who construct their investment forecasts based on fundamentals all think its bullish. Here's Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders offered an explanation in her recent commentary: Shifting gears, let's look at another sign that there could be a lot more room to run for the market. Deservedly, much attention was given to the "lost decade" that was evident at the lows in 2009. From that low looking back 10 years investors had lost money; a rare occurrence last seen coming out of the Great Depression in the 1930s. But notice the long-term pattern of this chart. Investors don't spend a lot of time hanging around the mean line, but instead the market tends to trend in one direction for multi decades (well-overshooting the mean) before heading back down to well-undershoot the mean. Being less than five years into the upcycle, history suggests we have more room to run. So what's the explanation for this? Well, it may have a little to do with how trailing returns affect investor psychology. "2014 may finally be the year individual investors, as a group, begin to buy stocks in contrast to the net selling they have done since the bull market began nearly five years ago," said LPL Financial's Jeff Kleintop. "The five-year trailing annualized return for stocks has been weak, especially compared to bonds, in recent years. However, as 2014 gets underway, the one-, three-, and five-year trailing annualized returns for the S&amp;P 500 will all be in the double digits for the first time this business cycle" Inflows from the retail investor would certainly be welcome, especially as the Federal Reserve begins to think about removing liquidity from the financial markets. "Our analysis of history shows that it is the five-year return that individual investors tend to chase, based on net inflows to U.S. stock funds," argued Kleintop. "As of March 6, 2014, five years from the bear market low in the S&amp;P 500 ó even assuming no additional growth in the stock market between now and then ó the five-year annualized return may have exceeded bondsí 5% return by 20%. This may prompt many investors to reconsider the role of stocks in their portfolios, especially as interest rates rise and bond performance lags."
REUTERS/ Thomas Peter"I'm long Herbalife."Google has released its annual "zeitgeist" report showing what the world was searching for in 2013. In terms of stocks, Google picked out the 10 biggest trending topics ‚Äî¬†searches with the largest increase in search volume since last year. From Twitter's IPO to "activist investor" ego battles, these 10 companies had some of the biggest market stories of 2013. Now we know what people are searching for. Update: Google originally had the non-public Better Business Bureau in its list, but replaced it with SolarCity Corporation.
REUTERS/Stephen LamTesla Motors CEO Elon Musk has captured the interest of California, but not Wyoming.Google has released its annual Zeitgeist, which breaks down what people searched for in 2013. Not surprisingly, Tesla Motors was the top trending car company in the U.S., meaning it saw the largest increase in search volume from the previous period (2012). But a closer look at the data reveals that not all of America is intrigued by Elon Musk's efforts to get people into electric cars. Google breaks down search interest by state and metro region, and it's clear that people are some areas just don't care. Here's state map. The area with the highest search volume gets a 100, and others are scored relative to that. Note how little interest residents of the Dakotas and Wyoming have in Musk's electric dreams. For comparison, those three states were among the most interested in Ford. Tesla Motors
Earlier this month Citi published a report indicating that anyone with less that $300 million assets under management in their hedge fund shouldn't even get out of bed in the morning. Crestfallen, many Wall Streeters resigned themselves to toggling spreadsheets for 'the man' (instead of becoming the man) for the rest of their careers. It was a dark day. Lucky for them, however, Citi does not have the final word on this matter. Looking for hope, Business Insider spoke with Jeff Rosenthal, the head of the Financial Services Practice Group at Anchin, Block &amp; Anchin, a top 30 accounting firm. He's been advising start up hedge funds since the 1980s, and says the game is tougher now than it was then, but Citi didn't get it all right ó you can still get in the game with $25-$50 Million assets under management (or even less). You just have to be smart about it, or you will fail. He's seen it time and time again. Traders may trade. Investors may invest, but an investment firm is more than its strategy. "You have to be able to put together a budget together and commit yourself," said Rosenthal. You have to be able to start a small business ó something they don't teach you during your time as an analyst at JP Morgan or Goldman Sachs. If you can't do that, it's over. At first, since your firm will be small, surviving is the game. Maybe you'll have a Bloomberg terminal, a few employees you'll need to work out payroll for, and a prime broker. Rosenthal advises that you "try to instill a culture of compliance early" , but the huge compliance headaches won't come until you've got $150 million AUM. Until that time ó the time when you can attract that sticky institutional or fund of funds money ó you'll be working with fickle high net worth individuals. Try to work out a lock-in period if you can. Even if you do get that though, plan a budget where you see yourself losing money for the first two years. Yes, you're a star. You're a great trader. You're awesome. But you will still lose money. "The first two years are critical," Rosenthal said. "You need good returns, a good message, and you'll need investors to promote you as well." That means communicating with your investors clearly, and making sure they understand your strategy. Before you try ANY of this, Rosenthal suggests you maybe set up a single member LLC to† invest your own money for a year or so. Use a strategy you're good at. See how it goes. It's a hard road ahead of that, and you've got to crawl before you can walk.
Kyiv's Maidan Square, the epicenter of the anti-government protests in Ukraine, has evolved into an ad-hoc community in the past few weeks. Hundreds of thousands of people remain in the square, with food and rock concerts to keep them occupied and French revolution-style barricades to keep them safe. Perhaps there's no better way to appreciate the scale of "Euromaidan" than from the air ‚Äî and how better to do that than with a drone. This video, uploaded yesterday, combines two clips of the square from the past few days to show the remarkable protest in action:  The protest camps sprang up after President Viktor Yanukovych made an unexpected u-turn on plans that could have eventually seen the country join the European Union, turning towards Russia instead. Maidan has long been a focal point for protests in Ukraine, most notably it was the site of the Orange Revolution protests (which were also against Yanukovych). 
This freshly published map from the¬†Tax Policy Center uses 2007 data to show average Federal income taxes in various counties around the country. The median federal income tax across counties is $3,419. Large cities, thanks to their wealthy residents, generally have higher federal income taxes. Ten percent of counties have median income taxes greater than $6,700. Here's the map: Tax Policy Center
Feng Li / GettyAccording to Beijing Youth Daily, the official newspaper of the Communist Youth League committee in Beijing, 97.8% of respondents to a recent survey felt that Chinese officials were wasting public funds. This percentage, charted by Erik Crouch of Shanghaiist, is terrifying. Yep, the percentage who said officials weren't wasting public funds is so tiny (2.2%) that it may just be a rounding error, or people who didn't understand the question. For context, 69% of a recent Huffington Post/YouGov poll felt that the U.S. needed to eliminate waste and fraud to cut the deficit. What's really notable about the Beijing Youth Daily poll is that the blame is being laid at the door of the officials personally, and not just inefficient systemic waste. Among the biggest examples of waste, the respondents said, were Communist Party use of "official receptions" (33.8%), "official cars" (20.7%), and "travel" (16.7%). This anger is reflected in the recurring use of the Chinese Internet's "human flesh engine" to find and expose officials living beyond their means. For recent examples, see Yang Dacai, the expensive watch-loving official who was pictured smirking at a car crash,¬†or Liang Wenyong, the official who was secretly filmed eating a lavish banquet of lobster while calling the "common people" shameless. This nearly universal derision of the extravagance of Chinese officials explains why, quite rightly, President Xi Jinping is worried. Xi's much-lauded anti-corruption drive has pledged to tackle both "tigers" and "flies," ordering officials to carpool to work and limit official banquets to four courses. Even the biggest tigers, such as Zhou Yongkang, China's former security chief, have not been safe from scrutiny.
APThe Senate cleared a key procedural hurdle on Tuesday morning and advanced the¬†budget bill that was the result of a deal brokered by Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.). In bipartisan fashion, the Senate voted by a 67-33 margin to advance the legislation to a final vote. Sixty votes were needed to break a filibuster. The House of Representatives passed the legislation last week in a blowout bipartisan vote. But in the Senate, the vote was expected to be much closer, amid steady opposition from Republicans. In days leading up to the vote, eight key Republican senators ‚Äî¬†Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.), Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah),¬†Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) ‚Äî suggested that they would at least vote to advance the measure. A Senate GOP aide told Business Insider that the conservative Johnson coming out in support of the deal Sunday night was "significant." Twelve Republican senators ended up voting to advance the budget legislation.¬† The budget deal has been a source of deep division within the Republican Party. Outside conservative groups have come out strongly against the deal, and House Speaker John Boehner has denounced those groups as having lost "all credibility." Despite the support from House GOP leaders like Boehner and Ryan, Senate Republican leaders, including Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, widely opposed the legislation. President Barack Obama has signaled he will sign the legislation if it reaches his desk.
Yes, winter storms have names. For several hundred years names have been assigned to hurricanes and tropical storms; the World Meteorological Organization is in charge of assigning names to those events. But just a year ago, starting with the 2012ñ13 winter storm season, The Weather Channel announced it would start naming winter storms in an effort to raise awareness and preparation. If this indeed works, then it may be a great idea to apply to the stock market. Perhaps we should name the stock market declines, or market storms, as they unfold during the year in order to raise investor awareness and preparation. An average year holds four market storms that have a magnitude of greater than a 5% decline with at least one major storm that has a peak-to-trough decline of 15.8% in the S&amp;P 500 over the past 20 years. Even when excluding recession years, the average annual peak-to- trough stock market decline is still over 10%, the magnitude that defines a major storm. We forecast a 10ñ15% gain for the S&amp;P 500 in 2014*. However, we expect that gain to be accompanied by a few named market storms next year and could even see a major storm of 10% or more develop. There was little need to name the pullbacks in 2013 since all but one were less than 5%. The biggest of them was a peak-to-trough decline of just 5.8%, the smallest such move in a year since 1995. So, in 2013 there were clearly no major storms in the marketsómuch like the 2013 Atlantic hurricane season, which was the first since 1994 to end with no major hurricanes. In contrast, we believe 2014 is likely to mark the return of volatility. The Market Storm Names proposed here for 2014 [Figure 1] also happen to be the top dog names for the year. Given Wall Street vernacular, it may seem like naming pullbacks after famous bears like Gentle Ben, Fozzie, Yogi, Winnie-the-Pooh, or Teddy would make more sense, but, counter-intuitively, this just makes them sound too cuddly. Also, the storms are not bear markets; they are just temporary pullbacks on the way to double-digit gains we are forecasting for the year. LPL Financial The 2014 Farmerís Almanac predicts a major winter storm for February 2014. In our Outlook 2014 entitled The Investorís Almanac, we forecast a rise in stock market volatility in 2014óas some market storms are likely to develop. We expect those storms to be driven by the emergence of occasional ìgrowth scares,î as economic activity may not accelerate in a straight line. Temporarily weak data on jobs or demandómore than actions by policymakersóare likely to drive the market storms in 2014. When may Market Storm Angelóthe first of the 2014 market stormsóarrive? Weak economic data readings led to 5% or more pullbacks in the spring of each of the past four years. We may again see some seasonal weakness in the economic data that could fuel a market storm in the early months of the year. However, a spring pullback in the S&amp;P 500 Index is very likely to be from higher than current levels, so there is no need to take action now. Instead it may be helpful simply to prepare mentally for a stormier market in 2014 than we experienced in 2013. More market storms are not necessarily a bad thing for long-term investors. Greater volatility may provide an opportunity to buy the dips in the market and for active managers to outperform their benchmarks. In fact, the average U.S. large cap active manager has historically outperformed the S&amp;P 500 most of the time during periods of heightened volatility, defined by the VIX being more than 2 points above its 3-year average. That compares to outperforming just 38% of the time when market volatility is lower, as measured by the Morningstar U.S. Large Cap Blend category. Whether naming a market storm raises awareness in a positive way or prompts beneficial actions is debatable, and this proposal to name market storms is a bit tongue-in-cheek in keeping with the fun spirit of the holiday season. But it is important for individual investors to be aware of and prepare for greater volatility as they allocate to stocks in their portfolios.
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderBefore queuing up "Auld Lang Syne," let's reflect on 2013. The Year of the Selfie brought us a government shutdown, a new pope, intelligence leaks of unparalleled proportions, and the Hyperloop. Physics' greatest mystery ‚Äî the theory of how particles acquire mass ‚Äî was resolved. Some "leaned in," others twerked. We collectively named "Satoshi Nakamoto," the anonymous inventor of Bitcoin, Business Insider's Person of the Year. From politics to sports, entertainment, finance, and more, people have done extraordinary things this year. These are the people who impressed us the most (listed in alphabetical order).
There's a free screening of "The Wolf Of Wall Street" on Wednesday night at 6 p.m. EST in Battery Park City.† You can RSVP to watch the film at TheWolfOfWallStreet.com [via Bloomberg TV]. It will be playing at the Regal Battery Park City, which is located behind Goldman Sachs' offices at 200 West Street.† "The Wolf Of Wall Street" is the movie adaptation of Jordan Belfort's tell-all memoir from his days of running a boiler room in the 90s. †The movie stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Matthew McConaughey and Jonah Hill and it's directed by Martin Scorsese. †† It debuts in theaters on Christmas Day.† Watch the trailer here:† 
REUTERS/Mike BlakeThe NAHB housing market index, a measuring of homebuilder confidence surged to 58 in December. This matches 2005 levels, according to Bloomberg. This beat expectations for a rise to 55, and is up from 54 the previous month. A reading over 50 shows that more builders think sales conditions are good rather than poor. Homebuilders don't think the rise in mortgage rates has hindered homebuyers since rates are near historical lows. The rise was also attributed to pent up demand caused by the government shutdown. "The HMI is up 11 points since December of 2012 and has been above 50 for the past seven months," said National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) Chairman Rick Judson in a press release. "This indicates that an increasing number of builders have a positive view on where the industry is going." "All three components of the housing market index (HMI) climbed in December. The index gauging current sales conditions jumped six points to 64. The index gauging expectations for future sales rose two points to 62. The index gauging traffic of prospective buyers gained three points to 44." New home sales surged 25.4% in October but this just takes sales back to the pace seen in the first six months of the year. Meanwhile, homebuilder sentiment has been decoupling from reality as housing starts have failed to keep up.
">APCarl Icahn and his wife, Gail.Unless you've been living under a rock, you've noticed that Carl Icahn has taken every opportunity to shake up Wall Street in 2013. It's no shock. He started the year armed with $10 billion in cash. The name "Icahn" has meant something on Wall Street since the 1980s, when he gained his reputation as a ruthless activist investor. He did it by taking a controlling interest in companies like TimeWarner, TWA, and Blockbuster. Now, Icahn's a billionaire. And even in his 70s, Icahn shows no sign of slowing down. This year he's made major money out of Netflix, revved up his feud with fellow hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, and picked a fight with Apple. Expect more next year. Icahn was born in 1936. His father was a synagogue cantor (though apparently an atheist); his mother a school teacher. He attended Far Rockaway High School in Queens. Source: Icahn report He graduated in 1957. Source: Icahn report Dreyfus merged with Mellon in 1994. Source: Icahn report He was 32. Source: Icahn report That's nearly $9,000,000 in 2005 dollars. Source: New York Times He'd take a controlling stake in a firm and force extreme changes in the company's structure (like spinning off different units). He forced some firms to pay him \"greenmail\" money to keep him away. Source: Investopedia Having purchased the company in 1985, he took it private three years later in a $650 million share-buyback plan. Source: Investopedia In 1992 it declared bankruptcy, and Icahn left the firm. Source: Investopedia He spent most of the 90s seeking to break up RJR Nabisco. The gambit ultimately failed but Icahn realized $100 million in profits from his involvement in the firm. Source: New York Times ìëI have framed articles of every deal Iíve ever done,î Mr. Icahn told The New York Times in 1998. ìIn all honesty, this is one frame Iím considering taking down.î Source: New York Times Google \"Icahn\" and any year, and you get something juicy. The company consists of: Source: Icahn Enterprises The feud between Ackman and Icahn dates back to 2004. One of the weirdest things about it? It all started over only $4.5 million. In 2003 Bill Ackman's first hedge fund, Gotham Partners, had just blown up and he was being investigated by then-Attorney General Eliot Spitzer. The investigation was eventually dropped, but this definitely wasn't the best time in Ackman's career. He needed to do a deal. Specifically, he wanted to sell Hallwood Realty, a company whose stock was trading about $60 a share but Ackman believed it was worth $140. So he called Icahn. To make sure everything was on the up and up, Ackman included some legal provisions in his contract with Icahn. First the contract stipulated that if there was any legal trouble, the loser would pay the winner's legal fees. Second it said that if payment was delayed, Icahn would owe Ackman a lot of interest. In 2004, Hallwood merged with another company, for $137 a share. That meant Icahn made some good money on the deal, so Ackman called him for Gotham Partners' cut. Most recently, Icahn said of Ackman: \"I'm telling you he's like a crybaby in the schoolyard. I went to a tough school in Queens, you know, and they used to beat up the little Jewish boys. He was like one of the little Jewish boys crying ...\" And on Ackman's pledge to give proceeds of his latest short, Herbalife to charity, Icahn said: \"He talks about charity. †That's complete bullshit!\" During the lawsuit Ackman had this to say about Icahn: ìThe guy is a shakedown artist,î Mr. Ackman sneers. ìHis word is worthless.î Carl Icahn Stadium on Randall's Island is one of those stamps. Here's what they do: Randallís Island Sports Foundation, Inc. (RISF) is a nonprofit organization that, in conjunction with City leadership, works to realize the islandís unique potential by developing sports and recreational facilities, restoring its vast natural environment, reclaiming and maintaining parkland, and sponsoring programs for the children of New York City. And if you're heading that way from Manhattan, you'll notice Carl Icahn's name on a stretch of the city's main east side highway, the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Drive. Source: Icahn Stadium He's now worth $14.8 billion. Source: Forbes
Credit SuisseLuck mostly dictates investment results in the short term, according to Credit Suisse's Michael Mauboussin. In a new video from the bank, Mauboussin explains the skill/luck continuum that determines relative investing success. From Credit Suisse: Examples of the first end of the continuum ‚Äì pure luck, no skill ‚Äì could be roulette wheels, lotteries or similar kinds of things. Pure skill, no luck might be running races or a chess match. Almost everything is arrayed somewhere in¬†between. For example, sports like basketball are actually much closer to being all skill. Ice hockey is much closer to being all luck. Thinking about your decisions, the key is to knowing¬†where your activity lies on that continuum. A lot of investment results ‚Äì especially in the short-term ‚Äì are based on luck, but maybe not for the reason that people believe. There is a lot of skill in markets and investors themselves are all very similarly skillful ‚Äì this is reflected in prices. As a consequence, that leaves more to luck and is the reason why short-term outcomes can mostly be put down to luck. Having said that, any serious study of past investment performance demonstrates that differential skill does play a role. Some investors clearly have more skill than others. But, by and large, especially in the short-term, luck mostly dictates the results. ¬† Mauboussin goes on to talk about the "dumb money effect," when investors leave the market during bad times and miss out on the rally. The dumb money effect shows some of the most depressing statistics in investing. If you look at a market return ‚Äì for example the S&amp;P 500, or any index ‚Äì it comes in at say 9 percent over the last 20 years. The average fund does a little bit less than that ‚Äì primarily because of fees ‚Äì but the average investor does quite a bit worse than the average mutual fund. It is a little perplexing. You might ask how investors do worse than the funds they are investing in. The answer is the dumb money effect, which is, people tend to invest when things are good and they tend to pull their money out when things are bad. Because they invest when things are good, they then have subsequent underperformance. They then pull their money out when things are bad so they miss the subsequent rebound. So, the dumb money effect basically says that people do what they should not do all the time. Bad timing is at the heart of this. Watch the video: 
US futures are rallying ahead of today's trading session. Dow futures are up 40 points, S&amp;P 500 futures are up 2 points, and Nasdaq futures are up 4 points. Two big components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average announced they would be shovelling more cash back to their investors. First, there was Boeing whose board raised the company's dividend by 50% and expanded its share buyback program by $10 billion. Second, there was 3M whose board cranked up the company's quarterly dividend by 35%. Both stocks are up over 2% in premarket trading. Here's a look at the pre-market move in Dow futures via FinViz: FinViz
Last week, Goldman Sachs published its 100 favorite charts. Included was a section titled "The Globalisation Of Labour." And that section included this chart of countries with large immigrant populations. For what it's worth, Singapore has a reputation for consistently ranking highly in education. Goldman Sachs
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonPeople shop at The Grove mall in Los Angeles November 26, 2013. This year, Black Friday starts earlier than ever, with some retailers opening early on Thanksgiving evening. About 140 million people were expected to shop over the four-day weekend, according to the National Retail Federation. Headline consumer prices were unchanged in November, the BLS says.¬† Expectations were for a gain of 0.1%. Ex-food and energy, inflation climbed 0.2% versus expectations of 0.1%. Full release ¬ª¬† Year-over-year, headline inflation rose 1.2% versus expectations of 1.3% and 1.0% prior. The Federal Open Market Committee meets today, and we'll learn the outcome of the meeting tomorrow. Today's figure shows inflation is practically non-existent.¬† Here's teh chart for the past 12 months. BLS Click here for updates ¬ª
Yesterday's rise of $15 per ounce in gold was erased Tuesday morning in Asia and London, as the US Dollar rose and world stock markets held flat overall. Trading back at last week's closing level of $1238 per ounce, gold tracked broader commodity markets, where Brent crude oil retreated to $109 per barrel. Gold for UK investors edged up to £761 per ounce as the British Pound fell to 3-week lows following the weakest reading of Consumer Price Inflation in four years at 2.1% per year. US inflation data were due with the start of Tuesday's New York trading, with consensus forecasts for a 3-month high of 1.3% per year. Maintaining its inflation target at 2.0%, the Federal Reserve today starts a two-day meeting to decide US monetary policy for the next 6 weeks, including a possible "taper" of $85 billion in monthly asset purchases. "The bullion market is likely to continue to mark time ahead of the FOMC statement," says a note from global bank and London bullion market-maker HSBC. "However, post the FOMC meeting, we are more favorable...Speculators still hold significant short positions. The approaching year end may lead to a covering of spec shorts, which is price supportive in our view." ETF trust fund holdings of gold have dropped 40% by value this year to $119 billion, says UK-based Barclays Capital. The giant SPDR Gold Trust, the world's largest gold ETF,†shed another 1% of its bullion holdings†yesterday to reach 818 tonnes, the lowest level since January 2009. Losing some 800 tonnes by weight in 2013, a further 100 tonnes of gold ETF holdings would become cash negative for investors who bought during the bull market at a price below $1200, BarCap adds. "Fed tapering and a general reduction in liquidity are the big game-changers in these markets," BarCap's commodities team says. "The risk is for further price downside ahead." Adrian Ash BullionVault
The Bank of Japan meets later this week.† We do not expect the BOJ to move further on QQE until there is evidence that it is needed, which means after the April retail sales tax increase.† In mean time, there are modest adjustments that are can be implemented.† For example, it has low rate lending facility directly to industry.† It is to expire in March 2014.† It was a JPY5.5 trillion program, of which about JPY1.5 trillion† has not been disbursed.† There are some reports suggesting that this facility can be extended a year and expanded by another JPY1 trillion. Separately, the BOJ may also signal no intention to sell shares that it has bought for two more year (March 2016).† The Nikkei, which settled at one week lows yesterday did not see follow through selling, spent the session in a largely consolidative mode.† The UK reported slighter softer inflation figure and saw sterling slip a bit lower on the news. † November CPI rose 0.1% for a 2.1% year-over-year pace, down from 2.2%.† It is the lowest since 2009.† Producer prices were also soft and this.† As the UK economy strengthened this year, price pressures eased.† UK asset markets and sterling seemed unappreciative of this today.† Lastly we note the ONS measure of house prices rose 5.5 year-over-year in Oct.† Last October it had risen 1.4% from the previous year.† Key support for sterling is seen near $1.6240-60.† Sweden's Riksbank delivered a 25 bp rate cut and signaled the likelihood of another cut next year.† It does not anticipate a rate hike until 2015. † This is a bit more dovish than many expected.† Prior to the meeting, the euro had sold off to test SEK9.00, but quickly rebounded to new highs (~SEK9.09) on the news before settling down.†† Last week's high was nearer SEK9.10. † The euro had rallied about 3.25% against the krona since Dec 4 and by 6.5% since Sept 20.† Surveys continues to point to an acceleration of German growth.† Yesterday's flash PMI has been followed by the ZEW survey today.† German investor confidence is at the highest level in more than seven years.† The assessment of the current condition rose to 32.4 from 28.7 and the expectations component rose to 62.0 from 54.6.† † The euro has been confined to a narrow 30 tick range ($1.3752-$1.3782) inside yesterday's action. † The euro has entered a consolidative phase since the start of last week.† Stops are likely below $1.3700, which if triggered, may have greater impact a break of last week high near $1.3810.† The RBA minutes did not break new ground and was not specific as Governor Stevens has been subsequently. † The door is left open for a future rate cut. † Stevens testimony before the House tomorrow will provide another opportunity to talk the Aussie down, though we suspect he will refrain from repeating a specific bilateral nominal target (e.g., $0.8500).† Rather than RBA minutes, it was the updated government fiscal projections.† The new government announced a dramatic deterioration of its budget in the current fiscal year.† The deficit is now expected to swell to A$47 bln from A$30.1 bln projected at mid-year.† The Australian dollar remains confined to the range set before the weekend ($0.8910-0.8970).† The year's low, seen in early August just below $0.8850 is the immediate target.††† The Australian dollar is being sold to new multi-year lows against the New Zealand dollar.† New Zealand, in contrast, projected a larger budget surplus and intentions to borrow less.† The RBNZ is expected to hike rates twice in H1 2014.† Today's North American session features the US CPI report and the Q3 current account.† The headline pace of CPI is expected to tick up to 1.3% from 1.0% in Oct.† The core rate is likely little changed from the 1.7% pace.† The historical experience in the US is for the headline rate to converge with the core rate rather than the other way around.† However, as we have noted the core PCE deflator, the Fed's preferred measure, shows a somewhat different pattern.† The large rises in Nov-Dec (0.8% and 0.5% respectively) in 2012 will drop out of the year-over-year comparison, producing a large drop in coming months.† Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidYeah, uh. I gotta go.LONDON (Reuters) - JP Morgan Chase &lt;JPM.N&gt;, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, is banning the use of multi-dealer online chat rooms and the use of such chat rooms among staff for social purposes, a person familiar with the matter told Reuters on Tuesday. Chat rooms have been a focus for regulators investigating manipulation of benchmark interest rates and possible rigging in the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market. Chat communications featured prominently in a five-year probe into the rigging of a key interest rate known as the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which has already cost banks billions of dollars in settlements. The source said JP Morgan's decision was unrelated to the FX probes which first surfaced in June, noting that this had been under review at the bank since even earlier this year. "This has always been about more than FX," the source said, adding that the casual nature of online chat rooms increased the potential for "inappropriate" remarks to be made. The ban will come into force later this week. Bilateral online chats between JP Morgan traders and traders at other financial institutions are under review, while external chats between JP Morgan staff and clients will still be permitted, the source said. JP Morgan declined to comment because the plans have yet to be finalized. Other banks have taken similar action recently. Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; has prohibited its foreign exchange and fixed income staff from using online chat rooms, and UBS &lt;UBSN.VX&gt; banned the use of multi-bank and social chat rooms at its investment banking division. Traders at banks and financial institutions often communicate with each other online via third-party services including Bloomberg LP and Thomson Reuters &lt;TRI.TO&gt;. (Reporting by Jamie McGeever; Editing by Alexander Smith and Mark Potter)
REUTERS/Pilar OlivaresPolice officers clash with supporters of the native Indian community during a protest outside the Indian museum, next to the Maracana stadium, in Rio de Janeiro, December 16, 2013. Police arrested more than 20 indigenous people who occupied the abandoned museum on Sunday as a protest against its demolition, as part of renovations ahead of Brazil's 2014 World Cup, according to local media.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
It is in this context that I wanted to discuss a recent article by David Goodboy entitled "2014 Promises To Be Another Bullish Year." † As he opines: "I love it when the stock market bears crawl out of their caves. The louder they get about an imminent market crash, the more confident I become that it's not going to happen anytime soon." Of course, 2014 is going to be a good year because of the "Wall Of Worry" "When everyone is super bullish, that's when it's time to expect a market correction. Even the bears have a name for this phenomenon: climbing the 'wall of worry.' Stocks are said to be climbing the wall of worry when they are acting the opposite of what the bears expect. Certainly, there will be pullbacks and even a few sharp drops in every bull market, but I expect the long-term upward trend will remain in full effect well into 2014." But Maybe... Everyone already is super bullish, and a Bob Farrell's Rule #9 states:† "When everyone agrees something else is bound to happen."† The chart below shows the bullish sentiment of professional investors versus the S&amp;P 500. It is important to notice that peaks in bullish sentiment normally coincide with both minor and major corrections in the markets.  Another way to view bullishness is through the use of "leverage" to increase portfolio returns.† The more "bullish" investors become; the more "risk" they are willing to take on.† A good way to look at this is by viewing the level of margin debt as compared to the level of negative cash balances as shown in the chart below.  Currently, investors all "all in." Of course, 2014 is going to be another bullish year because of cash inflows: "The stock market is controlled by buying and selling. These so-called inflows and outflows of capital are what determine stock prices. Investors transferred $12 billion into stock funds in just the final week of November, according to Lipper, the largest increase in five weeks. Funds specializing in U.S. stocks attracted $8.9 billion of these inflows, while non-U.S. stock funds absorbed $3.1 billion." But Maybe... The chart below shows the push by individual investors into retail equity mutual funds. It is really a testament to what we already know which is that historically investors tend to do the opposite of what they should ñ "buy high and sell low."  As I discussed in "Third Stage Of A Bull Market" investors tend to go through three distinct psychological stages during the "Bust To Boom" phase:† 1) Disbelief, 2) Acceptance, and; 3) Exuberance.† The problem with David's argument is that he is assuming that individual investors have some knowledge about the future of the market and are making a rational investment decisions. However, the reality is that low rates are forcing investors to take on more risk than they realize as they chase returns.† In other words, "everyone is now in the pool." Of course, 2014 is going to be another bullish year because of the Federal Reserve: "Think of the Federal Reserve as the wizard behind the curtain. The world's most powerful central bank sets the economic tone by tightening or loosening monetary policy. Its powers include its command of interest rates and an entire host of quantitative tools to spark or slow economic activity. The Fed is showing zero sign of ending its QE program anytime soon and has said its decision to start tapering depends strictly on the economic data...With interest rates near zero, and the Feds unlikely to start tapering until well into 2014, the stock market has no place to go but higher." But Maybe... I do agree with David's point that the Fed is responsible for artificially inflating asset prices.† As I discussed in "Bernanke/Yellen To Drive Stocks 30% Higher:" "At the current rate of balance sheet expansion, and assuming that correlations remain, the markets could well rise to 2329 by the end of 2015. This would also mean the Fed's balance sheet would have also expanded beyond $6 Trillion. This would likely imply that the Fed would own more than 50% of the treasury market."  The problem, potentially, is that individual investors are, as discussed above, piling into equities under the belief "this time is different." In 1999, it was the "tech boom," followed in 2007 by the "real estate/credit boom." Today, it is the inherent belief that the "Fed's accommodative policy" trumps all other issues. What we do know is that the Fed has embarked into a dangerous game of "bubble blowing" in the hopes that the bubble can be deflated without impeding the economic recovery that it created. This has never been the case previously and is unlikely to be the case presently. The majority of the arguments for a continuation of the bull market have given way as interest rates have risen, valuations have climbed and earnings and revenue have slowed. This has left the Federal Reserve's ongoing monetary interventions as a main driver of stock prices. However, that could change with President Obama considering a hawk, the former Bank of Israel chief Stanley Fischer, to become the vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. When asked in an interview about when the Fed should begin tapering $85 billion in monthly bond buying, Fischer replied that: "There is an efficient way to do it, which is to start doing it pretty soon and to do it gradually." † Despite Wall Street hopes for ongoing infusions of liquidity in the financial markets; the drumbeat of "tapering" is growing louder. Of course, 2014 is going to be another bullish year because of corporate earnings: "...the recent upward move in PMI is indicative of earnings growth soon to follow. This is signaling that we should soon experience an overall improvement in earnings in the first quarter of 2014." But Maybe... Since the financial crisis, top line revenue has grown only 1/10th as fast as corporate profitability of which the latter is already at a historical peak. The chart below shows the deviation in corporate earnings from their long term historical trends verses the market.  I discussed the problem with the current earnings cycle in "Analyzing Earnings As Of Q3 2013" wherein I stated: "The ongoing deterioration in earnings is something worth watching closely. The recent improvement in the economic reports is likely more ephemeral due to a very sluggish start of the year that has led to a 'restocking' cycle. The sustainability of that uptick in the economic data is crucially important if the economy is indeed turning a corner toward stronger economic growth. However, with the Affordable Care Act about to levy higher taxes on individuals, it is likely that a continuation of a 'struggle' through economy is the most likely outcome. This puts overly optimistic earnings estimates in jeopardy of be lowered further in the coming months ahead as stock buybacks slow and corporate cost cutting becomes less effective." Could we have another bullish year in 2014?† It is certainly possible as long as the Federal Reserve remains engaged in their ongoing balance sheet expansions.† But maybe the ongoing inflation of assets, without the underlying improvement in organic, sustainable, economic growth, will eventually lead to the next market bubble and bust. Of course, for anyone that has payed attention, such an outcome would be of little surprise. The important point is that, as an investor, you need to pay attention to the ever decreasing reward/risk ratio of chasing the financial markets. The "low hanging fruit" has long been harvested and the risk currently far outweighs the potential reward of being aggressively invested.† I realize that it is not popular, or fun, to rain on David's bullish parade.† However, while he will likely appear to be correct in the short term; the long term outcome will most likely be far less pleasant. 
REUTERS/Tim WimborneKuchani, a female African Lion at Sydney's Taronga Zoo, enjoys a treat hidden inside a Christmas wrapped box, December 23, 2008.While he's not the most bullish on the Street, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco believes that 2014 will indeed see some growth. "The US economy should sustain a long lasting expansionary cycle of moderate growth, which will make it worthwhile to stay constructive on the S&amp;P 500 for the next couple of years absent a sharp climb in PEs, inflation or interest rates," Bianco writes in his 2014 outlook.  "At this time, we assign a 75% chance to the S&amp;P reaching 1850 or higher at 2014 end." Bianco suggests a "very selective" investment strategy including technology, aerospace, insurance, chemical, and biotechnology stocks. Here are Deutsche Bank's favorite big cap stocks (market cap great than $10 billion, PE on 2014 EPS greater than 20, 2014 EPS growth greater than 5%, and net debt/market cap less than 30% for the non-financial companies).
MOSCOW¬†(Reuters) -¬†Russia¬†plans to restart oil supplies to¬†Ukraine's Odessa refinery¬†after a three-year drought, traders said, in a sign¬†Moscow¬†is ready to support its neighbor after it spurned a trade deal with the¬†European Union. Ukraine¬†hoped to secure new loans from¬†Russia¬†on Tuesday to help fend off an economic crisis, although any deals reached at talks in the Kremlin could fuel anti-government protests in¬†Kiev. President¬†Viktor Yanukovich¬†was also expected to seek a discount for Russian gas supplies during the talks with President¬†Vladimir Putin¬†as¬†Ukraine's financial difficulties could hit fuel supplies this winter. The plan to resume supplies by pipeline to the¬†Odessa refinery¬†could be a reward for¬†Ukraine¬†keeping the EU at arm's length and opting instead to revive economic ties with its former Soviet master¬†Moscow. A preliminary Russian oil exports schedule for the first quarter of 2014 showed¬†Russia¬†could supply 750,000 metric tons of oil to the refinery worth some $600 million, traders told Reuters, citing a draft schedule. The refinery is controlled by Ukrainian industrial group¬†VETEK, which has enjoyed strong support from the authorities. The schedule has yet to be approved by the¬†Russian Energy Ministry. The¬†Odessa plant, designed to process 70,000 barrels per day, was shut in October 2010 due to its poor financial performance. It was relaunched this October after¬†VETEK¬†bought it from Russian oil firm LUKOIL. (Reporting by Dmitry Zhdannikov and Gleb Gorodyankin; writing by Vladimir Soldatkin; editing by Steve Gutterman and Timothy Heritage)
REUTERS/Francois LenoirGeneral view of the city of Luxembourg October 11, 2013. Luxembourg's voters will take to the polls in a general election on October 20. LONDON¬†(Reuters) - "Life in¬†Luxembourg¬†is simply different," says its government website.¬†The¬†same could be said of tax in¬†the¬†Grand Duchy. It's known for its generous tax policies, but what's less familiar is a¬†Luxembourgrule that lets companies cut their income taxes using costs that they haven't actually borne - a break offered by almost no other state. The¬†rule, which dates back to World War Two, helps companies save hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes each year, a Reuters analysis of¬†the¬†accounts of several major international corporations shows.¬†The¬†profits that escape tax have often not been earned in¬†Luxembourg, but in countries like Britain,¬†the¬†United States¬†and¬†Germany. Those countries may lose out. New York-listed telecoms group Vimpelcom, U.S. internet group¬†AOL¬†Inc., building equipment maker Caterpillar and UK mobile telecoms group Vodafone are just four of those to have made use of¬†the¬†system, accounts for theirLuxembourg¬†subsidiaries show. Other firms have similar arrangements, tax advisers say, but have not made them public. What these firms can do that companies in most other countries cannot is use notional losses - like a fall in¬†thevalue of an asset that a business still holds - to cut their corporate income tax. In other countries, such an asset would have to be sold, so that¬†the¬†loss is realized, before¬†the¬†company could use it to reduce its tax bill.¬†The¬†only other country to offer a similar tax break is¬†Switzerland, according to 20 tax advisers from a dozen countries interviewed by Reuters; but they said¬†the¬†Swiss are more restrictive. In¬†the¬†European Union, where some countries use tax incentives to attract corporate investment,¬†Luxembourg's rule is a unique lure. Tax advisers say it has helped attract more than 40,000 holding companies and thousands of high-paying jobs for¬†the¬†population of nearly half a million. "For a government that wants to collect taxes ... this is just a stupid idea," said¬†Reimar Pinkernell, tax partner in Flick Gocke Schaumburg in Bonn. "But if you don't want to collect taxes, if you are just happy that¬†the¬†company is there, and employs some people, then this is a perfect system." The¬†leaders of¬†the¬†Group of 20 biggest economies pledged in September to close some international loopholes in company tax, but their plans won't target country-specific practices like¬†Luxembourg's. EU sources said in September¬†the¬†European Commission,¬†the¬†executive arm of¬†the¬†EU, wrote to¬†Luxembourg,¬†Ireland¬†and¬†theNetherlands¬†asking for details of tax deals they had cut with foreign companies, to see if they meet competition rules. Tax advisers point out that other countries offer different tax breaks to attract investment.¬†The¬†LuxembourgMinistry of Finance¬†said its tax rules are sensible, and not intended to help companies shift profits from other countries. "A lot of countries use tax competition," said¬†Heather Self, partner at law firm¬†Pinsent Masons¬†in¬†London. "There's nothing wrong with it and there's nothing wrong with companies taking account of different tax rates. Tax is just another cost of business." Spokespeople for¬†the¬†U.S., UK, French and German finance ministries declined to comment or said it would be inappropriate to comment on another country's tax rules. A spokesman for¬†the¬†EU Commission¬†said¬†the¬†issue was not one it has examined in detail. Here's how¬†the¬†rule works. If a company makes an investment, say it buys another firm, and¬†the¬†business turns out to be worth less than it paid,¬†the¬†company will follow international accounting rules to reduce, or write down,¬†thevalue of¬†the¬†asset in its accounts. In countries like Britain and¬†the¬†United States, that impairment does not generate a tax saving. But in¬†Luxembourg¬†it does. The¬†case of Dutch-based¬†Vimpelcom Ltd, one of¬†the¬†biggest phone operators in¬†Russia¬†with operations inCanada,¬†Italy¬†and¬†North Africa, shows how firms can benefit. At¬†the¬†end of 2012 a Vimpelcom subsidiary, a holding company called Weather Capital Sarl, made a 1.1 billion-euro ($1.51 billion) write-down in relation to some shares it held in a subsidiary,¬†Weather Capital Special Purpose 1 Sarl, also a holding company. It also reported an 840-million euro decline in¬†the¬†value of a loan it had made tothe¬†holding company. Under¬†Luxembourg¬†rules, those two losses could save hundreds of millions in tax. But¬†the¬†loss doesn't give a saving on its own: It must be offset against profits. And¬†Luxembourg's domestic market is too small to make much profit; Vimpelcom doesn't even have a telephone business there. So¬†the¬†company found another way to benefit. In January this year, it told investors at a presentation in¬†London¬†that it planned to establish an "internal bank" that would borrow money and lend it on to operating units around¬†the¬†world, to fund their investments. Henk van Dalen, its Chief Financial Officer at¬†the¬†time, said¬†the¬†company planned to route $13 billion to $15 billion of loans each year through¬†the¬†new financing unit.¬†The¬†in-house bank would generate large profits by charging more in interest than it had to pay. And these profits would escape tax because¬†the¬†financing operation would be based in¬†Luxembourg, where Vimpelcom had big tax losses to use. The¬†"tax saving" would be $200 million to $250 million each year, van Dalen said. Vimpelcom declined to comment or answer questions about its¬†Luxembourg¬†operations. Van Dalen did not respond to requests for comment. It could go on indefinitely, van Dalen told¬†the¬†London¬†meeting, a video of which is available on¬†the¬†company website. "Of course, at a certain moment you will run out of these tax losses and then there will be a new phase developed for¬†the¬†financing company," van Dalen said. One investor on¬†the¬†video described¬†the¬†structure as "fairly ingenious." But¬†University of Connecticut School of Law¬†Professor¬†Richard Pomp¬†said¬†the¬†system made no sense. "It's absurd," he told Reuters of¬†the¬†Luxembourg¬†rule. "It gives¬†the¬†taxpayer too much control in managing their tax bill." Luxembourg's practice was actually inherited from¬†Germany¬†and dates back to¬†the¬†occupation of¬†the¬†Grand Duchy during¬†the¬†Second World War, said¬†Ministry of Finance¬†spokeswoman¬†Veronique Piquard. Indeed,¬†Germany¬†allowed companies to create such tax losses until 2001, although¬†Berlin¬†was less generous, German tax lawyers say. Another difference was that while¬†Germany¬†gave deductions for write-downs, if a firm made a profit when it sold an investment,¬†the¬†company would be taxed on that. In¬†Luxembourg, if¬†the¬†investment goes up in value or is sold at a profit,¬†the¬†gain isn't taxable. Pomp,¬†the¬†University of Connecticut¬†professor, calls that a "one way bet" for companies. "There should be symmetrical treatment," he said. "This is a pure tax incentive." Tax advisers say¬†Germany¬†changed its approach because it stopped taxing capital gains, so it no longer made sense to give a deduction for losses. Piquard said¬†Luxembourg's treatment of write-downs was not a tax incentive and¬†the¬†tax authority only gave deductions for write-downs which were justified. The¬†deductions can be quite quickly arranged, as illustrated by¬†the¬†case of internet group¬†AOL¬†Inc. AOL¬†told investors in its 2009 annual report that it was experiencing weakness in its European display advertising business. In 2010, it transferred ownership of several European advertising subsidiaries from a British to a¬†Luxembourg-based company. Months later, that company,¬†AOL¬†Europe Sarl, wrote down¬†the¬†value of¬†the¬†advertising units as part of a 27-million-euro impairment. It then offset this against royalty income totaling 6 million euros, which could otherwise have incurred tax of almost 2 million euros. Had¬†AOL¬†left¬†the¬†units with¬†the¬†British holding company and taken¬†the¬†losses there, it would not have received any tax benefit. Piquard declined to comment on individual companies' tax affairs.¬†AOL¬†also declined to comment. Boosting¬†the¬†appeal of¬†Luxembourg's rule is¬†the¬†fact that many takeovers - more than half, according to some studies - don't work out for¬†the¬†acquirer. Take Caterpillar, which shocked investors in January by writing down almost all of¬†the¬†value of¬†ERA Mining Machinery Ltd., a Chinese company it agreed to buy for more than $653 million in 2011. Caterpillar cited alleged accounting irregularities at an ERA subsidiary, and¬†the¬†write-down wiped out more than half its earnings for¬†thefourth quarter of 2012. However, there was some consolation for Caterpillar investors, because¬†the¬†deal was structured through aLuxembourg¬†holding company. The¬†write-down generated a tax deduction of $445 million that could be used to offset Caterpillar's future income in¬†Luxembourg. Caterpillar declined to comment. One of¬†the¬†most successful users of¬†the¬†Luxembourg¬†rule is Vodafone.¬†The¬†losses it built up in¬†Luxembourg¬†are so big¬†the¬†Grand Duchy's approach to taxing write-downs has helped it save billions of euros in taxes over¬†thepast 13 years. Vodafone became¬†the¬†largest mobile phone company in¬†the¬†world after a buying spree in¬†the¬†late 1990s, with deals such as¬†the¬†$180 billion takeover of¬†Germany's Mannesmann AG. After¬†the¬†tech bubble burst, Vodafone had to write down these assets. They were held in¬†Luxembourg, which meant that¬†the¬†70 billion euros in charges it reported could be used to offset future profits. These have been significant. Since Vodafone's first write-downs in¬†the¬†year to March 2002, just four¬†VodafoneLuxembourg¬†subsidiaries have earned almost 30 billion euros. Two have been like Vimpelcom's "internal bank".¬†Vodafone¬†Luxembourg¬†5 Sarl (VL5), made $15 billion in profits from lending to¬†the¬†group's U.S. arm, while¬†Vodafone Investments¬†Luxembourg¬†Sarl¬†(VIL) made 18 billion euros lending to affiliates such as Vodafone's German arm. Interest payments are tax deductible in¬†the¬†United Statesand¬†Germany, so¬†the¬†U.S. and German units' taxable income, which could have exceeded 60 billion euros, was also reduced by this arrangement. More recently, two other Vodafone subsidiaries have gone beyond lending, to start business operations inLuxembourg.¬†The¬†firms - Vodafone Procurement Company Sarl (VPC) and¬†Vodafone Roaming Services Sarl(VRS) - trade phone equipment and telephone bandwidth between affiliates and external suppliers. Their 300 staff generated an average 1.7 million euros per head in profit in¬†the¬†year to March 2013, compared with a group average of around 44,000 euros per worker. Combined, these arrangements mean Vodafone reports more profit in¬†Luxembourg¬†than it does in any other country apart from¬†the¬†United States, group accounts show. And thanks to¬†the¬†tax losses it has built up in¬†Luxembourg, it has paid only around 100 million euros in tax since 2001. If Vodafone had paid¬†the¬†headline tax rate on this profit, it would have faced a bill of almost 9 billion euros. Vodafone said it did not use contrived arrangements to shift profits. "Vodafone acts with integrity in all tax matters and operates under a policy of full transparency with¬†the¬†tax authorities in every country in which we operate,"¬†thecompany said in a statement. Head of Group Media Relations¬†Ben Padovan¬†said¬†the¬†profits reported in¬†Luxembourg¬†reflected genuine economic activity there and¬†the¬†arrangements had no impact on Vodafone's UK tax bill. Vodafone added that¬†the¬†decision to hold its investments and base its inter-company financing in¬†Luxembourgreflected a variety of factors including¬†the¬†country's location within¬†the¬†euro zone, "the¬†stability and predictability ofthe¬†tax, regulatory, social and political environment and¬†the¬†availability of relevant skills within¬†the¬†labor market." If companies do use¬†Luxembourg's rules to avoid taxes in other countries, said¬†Luxembourg¬†tax lawyer¬†Thierry Lesage, then it was up to other countries to change their systems. The¬†system is "really part of¬†the¬†DNA of¬†the¬†Luxembourg¬†holding (company) taxation system," he said. "As a sovereign state¬†Luxembourg¬†is allowed to determine its fiscal policy." ($1 = 0.7283 euros) (Edited by¬†Sara Ledwith¬†and William Waterman)
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthA balloon rises into the sky during the International Balloon Fiesta near Bristol in western England, August 7, 2009.Britain's 12-month inflation rate slowed to 2.1 percent in November, the lowest level for four years, as food and energy price rises slowed, official data showed on Tuesday. Annual inflation had stood at a year-low of 2.2 percent in October, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said in a statement. "The Consumer Prices Index (CPI) grew by 2.1 percent in the year to November 2013, down from 2.2 percent in October," the ONS said. "The largest contributions to the fall in the rate came from food and the utilities -- gas and electricity. These were partially offset by upward contributions from the transport sector and from some aspects of recreation and culture," it added. At 2.1 percent, the rate was the lowest level since November 2009. The Bank of England's main task is to use monetary policy as a tool to keep annual inflation close to a government-set target of 2.0 percent, in order to preserve the value of money. The annual CPI rate has held above this target level since November 2009 but has dropped from a level of more than five percent in the space of two years. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Investing.com, Sober LookWhen it comes to treasuries, there is no shortage of bearish news. The budget deal is done, the†third quarter GDP was better than expected (inventory build issue aside), and the US labor markets are supposedly getting better. Expectations of an "early taper" are running high, with the Fed poised to pull the trigger on cutting back securities purchases sooner than was originally thought. Moreover, bond funds outflows continue, with many investors dumping anything that has a fixed coupon. And if the fundamentals aren't bad enough, technicals for treasuries look terrible as well.†Moving averages and other technical indicators are all screaming "sell". That's precisely what many investors have been doing since October, as treasuries resumed the decline which began†last†spring. Investing.com, Sober Look Now consider the following chart. It shows the aggregate speculate investor positioning in dollar rate-sensitive futures. The measure is duration weighted, assigning a higher weight to the 10y note futures than to bill futures for example. Credit Suisse, Sober Look This tells us that "speculative" investors are building up what amounts to a large (relative to recent history)†short treasuries position. And why not - so far†all signs†have†pointed to†this being†the right trade. Until†some of these trigger-happy traders†begin to cover. With all the bearish news out and everyone - including retail investors - talking about rising rates,†the contrarian view would put the near-term risk in treasuries to the upside.
On Sunday, Egypt presented the draft for its next constitution under a huge "All Egyptians Constitution"¬†banner showing five people ‚Äî three of which appear to be stock images of foreigners. These people can be found elsewhere on the Internet.¬†The doctor on the left appears on an English-language website that sells stretch marks cream. The only woman appears on a¬†Irish business networking site. ¬†¬†And the¬†man with Down's syndrome ‚Äì Patrick Kingsely¬†of The Guardian¬†notes¬†that it's¬†a nod to the new charter's provisions for people with disabilities ‚Äì can be found on this Arizona business website. To top it all off, the Arabic text misspelt the word "Egyptians" as "determined." REUTERS/Mohamed Abd El GhanyEgypt's constituent assembly Chairman Amr Moussa (C) attends a news conference in Cairo December 15, 2013. Egyptians will vote on a new constitution on January 14 and 15, pushing on with the army-backed government's plan for transition back to democracy after its overthrow of elected Islamist President Mohamed Mursi. The government has apologized. Egyptians will vote on a new constitution on January 14 and 15 as part of the¬†army-backed government to transition after the coup that ousted Islamist President Mohamed Mursi. ¬†¬†
At the same time, we are aware that the federal deficit is shrinking. The pressure of new Treasury bond issuance is falling all the time. Markets tend to ignore this trend in the short run. In the longer run and in the past, with the federal government ìcrowding outî other borrowers, having to sell more bonds put more pressure on markets. The fewer bonds there are to be sold, the less pressure there is on markets. This is called ìcrowding inî and is a characteristic that market agents have forgotten after the recent and long period of high deficits in the United States. In 2014, governmental crowding in has arrived in force.† Its influence will be felt in markets. Coupled with restrained state and local budgets, we now have a shrinking federal deficit that is now headed under 3% of GDP and trending lower. This is a very powerful force against rising bond yields. Greg Valliere, an expert observer of Washington, DC, politics and the dynamics of our political system, described the shrinkage of the deficit as follows: ìThe first two months of the fiscal year look spectacular. Data released yesterday by the Treasury Department show the deficit down by 22% compared to the first two months of last year, with receipts up by 10% to $362 billion. Cynics respond that about $30 billion of that total comes from Fannie and Freddie, which are pumping profits back to the government.î When I asked Greg for more detail about the GSE share, Greg offered this addition about ìthe enormous one-time tax break of about 20 billion that grossly affected the GSE contributionî: ìBoth Fannie and Freddie will continue to contribute to the Treasury, but not at the Oct.-Nov. pace.î Many thanks to Greg Valliere for giving us permission to share this insight. We think Greg is right in his assessment that the falling deficit will persist.† We believe it will be a force throughout the rest of the Obama term. It is quite possible that the deficit could decisively dip under 3% of GDP and even approach 2% or 2.5% of GDP. That will be a remarkable event. It will happen at the same time that the pressures on the housing agencies and mortgage finance entities are diminishing. All this coincides with rising house prices and the gradual recovery of our economy. As a nation we find ourselves on the benign recovery side of the pain that convulsed the economy during the financial crisis. In sum, the new-issuance pressure of bonded indebtedness at all government levels is not intense and not of the nature to drive up interest rates. Instead we have crowding in, not crowding out. Meanwhile, the issue of inflation is being ignored by bond investors. The headline personal consumption expenditure deflator is falling. Market-based priced Core PCE is falling even more. It is trending under 1%. Core CPI is also falling. Producer Price inflation is trending at about 1%.† In fact, the case can be made that the collective indicators of price level changes could all trend under at or near 1% sometime in 2014. The real interest rate in the bond market (after inflation is removed from the calculation) rises when the anticipated or measured rate of inflation falls. As we know, over time, it is the real interest rate that counts. Rising real interest rates have a slowing effect on economic activity. Falling or lower real interest rates spur economic activity. Presently, with inflation rates not widely accepted as accurate by market players but trending lower and bond interest rates not widely accepted as bargains by market players but trending higher, a possible collision course or tension between the two indicators results. That tension could slow the pace of economic growth, and any such slowing could and would lead to a subsequent robust rally in bonds. What bonds to buy, what bonds to hold, and what bonds to sell? When should they be swapped? These are the conundrums investors face. Fortunately, there are good answers to be found. We have long said that the tax-free, high-grade bond sector is cheap relative to other bonds. It still is. Sectors of the bond markets that are yielding real tax-free returns of 3% and even 4% are very attractive. One can get those returns without taking a lot of credit risk. We are not talking about Detroit, Puerto Rico, or other credits in the municipal bond space that are questionable, facing bankruptcy, in bankruptcy, or otherwise under pressure. We are talking about the highest-quality credits that are available at bargain real yields and bargain relative nominal yields.† Build America Bonds, the taxable cousins in Muniland, also remain cheap. Lastly, the disposition of investors to run from the bond market continues to intensify. We see evidence week after week of liquidation of mutual fund shares. This has been going on for six months. Credit Suisse recently created an analysis of various fund flows (December 10, 2013). They ask the question, ìWhatís all the fuss about fund flows about?î They then dissect the various measures of fund flows. The conclusion is fairly clear. The flight from bonds has forced mutual funds to sell. They are selling as a class. That means when Fidelity sells, it has to sell its bonds, and Vanguard is not able to buy because they have to sell bonds as well. As in an earlier period of intense liquidation, the liquidation of bonds now underway works to create bargains in the bond space as sequential investors capitulate due to fear. They extract money from the bond side and place it elsewhere.† Then they wonder and second guess their actions. Has anyone thought that the bond sell-off might be overdone? The economy and its recovery are not so robust and not so impacted by rising inflation pressures as to cause bond interest rates to spike higher. Maybe, just maybe, we will have low inflation, lower interest rates, and gradual economic recovery that will persist for quite some time. Maybe, just maybe, the backup in home mortgage interest rates will slow the housing recovery so that it will not be robust. The recovery in the labor market may also persist slowly, as the evidence seems to show. We are approaching the end of the year in managed bond accounts. That is a big piece of Cumberlandís activity. We resist this notion that the bond market is headed for an absolute debacle in 2014. We particularly favor the tax-free municipal bond. Where appropriate, we recommend tactical hedging as a method of dampening overall bond portfolio volatility. At Cumberland, we do not view the world as coming to an end in bond land. When a high-grade, long-term tax-free yield of 5% is obtainable in a very low-inflation environment, we think that bond investors who run from bonds and liquidate them will look back, regret the opportunities they missed, and wonder why they did it.
REUTERS/Thomas PeterThat's right.BERLIN (Reuters) - Angela Merkel was elected to a third term as chancellor in a vote in the German lower house of parliament on Tuesday, paving the way for her new "grand coalition" government to be sworn in and formally take power later in the day. Merkel's conservatives scored their best result in over two decades in a German election on September 22 but were forced into lengthy coalition talks with the rival Social Democrats (SPD), whose members only approved the deal last weekend. The vote in the Bundestag was a formality as the ruling parties hold an overwhelming majority of the seats. A total of 462 lawmakers backed Merkel for chancellor, with 150 voting against and 9 abstaining. The new government faces a host of challenges, from bedding down European reforms aimed at shielding the bloc from future crises, to seeing through Merkel's costly switch from nuclear to renewable energy. Merkel, dressed in black and looking relaxed as lawmakers voted in the Bundestag chamber, joins fellow conservatives Konrad Adenauer and Helmut Kohl as the only post-war chancellors to have won three terms. (Writing by Noah Barkin; Editing by Madeline Chambers)
The share repurchase represents about 10 percent of Boeing's outstanding stock, ranking it in the middle of buybacks by large U.S. companies, which are on a stock-buying spree this year. Boeing shares rose about 2 percent in extended trading after the news. They closed at $134.72 on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday. The increases in dividends and share repurchases "reflect sustained, strong operational performance by our businesses, increasing cash flow, and our confidence in the future," Boeing Chief Executive Jim McNerney said in a statement. The new repurchase amount adds to about $800 million remaining from the company's 2007 stock repurchase authorization, and buying will begin in 2014, Boeing said. The quarterly dividend is 73 cents per share, up from 48.5 cents. Boeing is enjoying a surge in revenue and cash as it ramps up commercial jet production, with a target of delivering a record 635 to 645 aircraft this year. Those gains help offset declining U.S. military spending, which is hampering Boeing's defense businesses. The company is also preparing to invest billions of dollars in two new models, the narrow-body 737 MAX and the wide-body 777X. The increased payouts come as the company tries to clinch a labor contract with its unionized machinists that would ensure the 777X is built in the Seattle area. The 31,000 local union members have rejected Boeing's offer, largely because it would switch their defined-benefit pension to a 401(k)-style plan. "Boeing is looking forward to a period of long-term financial stability made possible primarily by the men and women of District 751," said Tom Wroblewski, president of the International Association of Machinists, District 751, which represents the Seattle-area workers. "While other production sites have failed to hit their targets, we have delivered record numbers of airplanes at record profit margins this year, helping drive the stock price to record highs," he added. "Given this, I feel it's wrong for the company to try to take away pension benefits that provide our members with their own future financial stability." For investors, the rise in returns "speaks to the belief that the company has line of sight to improving its operating performance," said Howard Rubel, an analyst at Jefferies &amp; Co. Inc. The buyback amount matched his forecast, and the dividend was larger, he said. Robert Stallard, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said the $10 billion repurchase over two or three years was below the $6.5 billion in repurchases he expected in 2014. "So although this news will probably be welcome, the impact on consensus EPS estimates may not be as positive as expected," Stallard added in a note to clients. U.S. companies in the Standard and Poor's 500 authorized nearly $123 billion in buybacks in the second quarter, the most since the third quarter of 2011, according to FactSet Research Systems Inc &lt;FDS.N&gt;. Among Dow Industrial Average companies, Boeing's $10 billion repurchase was in line with General Electric Co &lt;GE.N&gt;, Pfizer Inc &lt;PFE.N&gt;, Intel Corp &lt;INTC.O&gt; and Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt;. But was far smaller than $40 billion for Microsoft Corp &lt;MSFT.O&gt; and $17 billion for Home Depot Inc &lt;HD.N&gt;. But among peer companies authorizing buybacks of $10 billion or more, Home Depot is giving shareholders a much larger boost. It is buying back 15 percent of its outstanding shares. In comparison, GE's $10 billion buyback will purchase just 4 percent of outstanding shares. (Reporting by Alwyn Scott in Seattle and Aman Shah in Bangalore; Editing by Maju Samuel, Andre Grenon and Stephen Coates)
REUTERS/Ina FassbenderHeck yeah.Investor confidence is robust in Germany. The country's latest ZEW index jumped to 62.0 in December from 54.6 in November. This was way ahead of expectations for a reading of 55.0. According to CNBC World, this is the highest level since April 2006. This follows Monday's strong flash composite output index, which signaled economic acceleration in Europe's largest economy.
REUTERS/Michael DalderFalling together.Markets are down early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 10 is down 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is down 1.0%. Germany's DAX is down 0.3%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.4%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.5%. The Federal Reserve begins its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting today. Economists don't expect any changes to monetary policy. However, some believe that the Fed may begin tapering its quantitative easing program.¬† This action would remove some liquidity from the credit markets and possibly lead to some volatility in the markets. Some argue that risk is being priced into the market today.
