NEW YORK (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is likely to begin shrinking the size of its debt purchase program, intended to prop up economic growth and support the labor market, by September of this year, according to the majority of economists at large Wall Street firms. Economists at Goldman Sachs and J.P. Morgan specifically cited the government's announcement earlier on Friday of stronger-than-expected U.S. jobs growth for June as a factor in bringing forward their expected timing of the Fed slowing. Goldman and J.P. Morgan are two of 21 U.S. primary dealers - the large financial firms that do business directly with the Fed - that were polled by Reuters on Friday. Of 17 dealers who answered a question on the expected timing of a reduction in purchases, 11 called for September, while three said October, two said December and one said it would happen in the first quarter of 2014. In a similar poll conducted June 19, seven of 17 dealers called for a slowing in September. One dealer in the previous poll had called for the slowing this month, while three said October, one said November while four said December, with one still forecasting the first quarter of 2014. Friday's poll was conducted after the government said U.S. employers added 195,000 new jobs to their payrolls last month, and revised its count for April and May to show 70,000 more jobs created than previously reported. Economists had been looking for 165,000 new jobs in June. "With solid job gains through the first half of the year, the recovery appears to be overcoming the worst of the fiscal headwinds now at peak force. Fed officials are likely to keep tentative plans to start scaling back (quantitative easing), probably in September, barring a major upset," said Peter D'Antonio, economist at Citigroup in New York. The Fed is currently buying $85 billion per month of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, and the median of forecasts from 13 dealers in Friday's poll was for buying to initially be scaled back by $20 billion per month. Forecasts ranged from a reduction of $10 billion per month to $28 billion per month. The median forecast for an initial reduction of $20 billion per month was unchanged from the June 19 poll. Of 16 primary dealers who answered a question on the timing of the end of the latest bond purchase program, 14 said it would happen on or before the middle of 2014, while two said September 2014. Those results were little changed from the June 19 poll. Many analysts had been reeling in their forecasts for the timing of the beginning of the end of Fed purchases, after Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said at a press conference on June 19 the economy is expanding strongly enough for the central bank to start slowing the pace of its bond-buying stimulus later this year. Friday's payrolls data added to sentiment that the Fed could slow purchases sooner than originally expected. "Coming into today, our call for a December first taper was already probably a little underwater, and after today's report we are moving to a call for a first reduction in asset purchases at the September (Federal Open Market Committee) meeting," J.P. Morgan economist Michael Feroli said in a note to clients. The median of forecasts from 13 dealers called for the latest round of quantitative easing, known as QE3, to total $1.3 trillion of purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. That was up marginally from a median of $1.255 trillion from 12 dealers polled June 19. Economists at 13 of 14 dealers forecast the Fed will increase interest rates from the current ultra-low level near zero in 2015, while one said it would happen in 2016. (Additional reporting by Alison Griswold, Pam Niimi and Luciana Lopez; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions
Flickr User: Flint Foto FactoryOn Friday, we learned that U.S. companies added 195,000 jobs in June, which was much higher than the 165,000 expected by economists. Still, the unemployment rate remains painfully high at 7.6%, even as GDP, corporate profits, and stocks sit near all-time highs. One of the reasons for this is the decline of America's small businesses, which struggle to compete against the scale of the world's multi-national, multi-billion dollar corporations. Here's Nathan Sheets, Citi's Global Head of Interenational Economics: The travails of the U.S. small-firm sector. Our past work has emphasized the important role of small firms as engines of growth for the economy and, particularly, as job creators. The upper-left panel of Figure 8 documents this relationship. From the late 1970s to the time of the financial crisis, the share of net job creation accounted for by small firms declined some, but remained above 60 percent. During the financial crisis, small firms bore the brunt of the job loss, as they were hit hard by the decline in construction and real estate (where small firms predominate) and by a sharp pull-back in bank lending (the red line in the right panel). Since early 2010, small firm employment has rebounded but has not yet come close to reversing the job losses sustained during the financial crisis. This is an issue that we are watching as a key indicator of the cyclical performance of the U.S. economy. Another concerning development is the steady decline since the early 1980s in the rate at which small businesses are being established. Research indicates that young firmsónew start-upsóare especially powerful engines for job creation and real GDP growth. Another way of framing this observation is that it appears that the United States in the 1980s had some ìsecret sauceî that was effectively incentivizing the start-up of small firms. Better understanding what economic policies facilitated this outcome strikes us as a useful endeavor for future research. Here are Sheets' charts: Citi Research
REUTERS/Jason Alden/poolAfter a double-dip recession and a modest recovery in the second quarter, the UK economy is in need of some fresh ideas. Enter Mark Carney. The former Bank of Canada governor, took the reins from Mervyn King on July 1. Carney is charming, with many likening him to George Clooney and Cary Grant. And celebrated ‚Äî he is often called the¬†rock star central banker. And then there is his erudite background. He has a bachelor's degree in economics from Harvard, an MPhil in economics from Oxford, and a PHD in economics from Nuffield College, Oxford. He then spent 13 years at Goldman Sachs before transitioning to the public sector. As governor of the Bank of Canada he was considered to have the Midas touch. He was credited with steering¬† Canada away from the worst of the financial crisis and helping put it back on the path to recovery much faster than other developed economies. So, it's understandable that he managed to negotiate a ¬£874,000 package to move to London, according to The Guardian, including a monthly ¬£10,000 housing allowance. He will also only be serving a five-year term, instead of the usual eight. Forward guidance:¬† First order of the day The pressure is on for Carney, as an outsider, to bring with him a change in "the culture of an institution that has been dominated by a single personality for the past 20 years," according to UBS' Amit Kara. He is expected to introduce forward guidance, similar to the Fed i.e. signal monetary policy stance ahead of time. But Kara argues that forward guidance is likely to be less effective in the UK because of "the unpredictability of the UK economy." The Bank of England on the other hand has managed to get its forecasts wrong. From Kara: "Mr Carney will most likely announce a framework for guidance in August along with publication of the Inflation Report. The framework will be necessarily cautious and, as such, include a heavy dose of conditionality to satisfy other MPC members that are similarly skeptical about the benefits of forward guidance. "We have also contended that Mr Carney will bring about a welcome change in the culture of the institution. In this context, though, it is important to remind ourselves that the BoE has been one of the most aggressive and innovative central banks in recent years, and that is one aspect (along with the traditional pink coats of the doormen) that the new governor will be keen to preserve." But others argue that forward guidance could help ease some of the volatility and spill over from rising rates in the U.S. How different will Carney be from his predecessor, Mervyn King? First, in his testimony to the Treasury Select Committee (TSC) in February, Carney said central banks should consider nominal gross domestic product (NGDP) targeting if QE measures aren't enough, since this would allow for a more aggressive response. Carney did however say that inflation targeting was preferred over¬† NGDP targeting. In this regard he is quite like King, because he believes there is "considerable flexibility in the current inflation targeting framework and a very high bar for switching from it," according to a February note by Jamie Dannhauser at Lombard Street Research. Second, both Carney and King justify extending the time frame for inflation to be brought back to target, though Carney is more likely to have a time frame. Third, like King, Carney is expected to vote for more gilt purchases. Remember King was looking for an additional ¬£25 billion in gilt purchases but had six members of the MPC vote against it. Dannhauser thinks the MPC under Carney will vote for more gilt purchases in 2013-2014, but that they would not take center stage in the committee's tool box. Fourth, unlike King, Carney is in favor "of using monetary policy to ‚Äòlean against the wind‚Äô of asset bubbles," wrote Dannhauser. He thinks it is important to use interest rates to ensure financial stability.¬† "In all likelihood, the differences between Bank of England policy under Carney and that under Mervyn King will be more apparent than real... "Carney himself questions the magnitude of QE‚Äôs benefit on the real economy, and while acknowledging that the marginal benefit is likely to be positive, notes that there are potential costs from long- lasting monetary stimulus. Like Mervyn King, Mark Carney does not appear persuaded by some of the more radical monetary ideas that could be considered, e.g. money-financed fiscal policy, or notably a change of fiscal course. Both are also persuaded of the need for swift and radical reform of the banking system, and at the same time complacent about the short-term damage to output growth and the increasing pro-cyclicality of bank regulation. "All in all, we do not believe that much of substance is going to change. Monetary policy will continue along the same path, i.e. aggressive stimulus and an extended time frame over which inflation is brought back to target." Remember, Carney was hand-picked by Mervyn King. So, in the near term, the biggest difference we see might just be the changes he brings to culture and hierarchy at the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street. Not everyone's a fan Some have raised questions about his time at Goldman Sachs and his decision to appoint another investment banker, Banco Santander's Charlotte Hogg, to be the BoE's first chief operating officer. "That resume√© rundown isn't meant to impute personal venality to any of these officials; it's to point out the corruption of a system governed by unelected ex-bankers colluding in unprecedented austerity for the poor, while shoveling hundreds of billions at bankers ," wrote Aditya Chakraborty in The Guardian.  REUTERS/Marc Serota MSSociete Generale's Albert Edwards said Carney's stance on NGDP targeting was cause for concern because it showed the willingness of "policymakers to become more and more interventionist in their monetary experiments." He even compared Carney to Alan Greenspan: "In 2005 I described Alan Greenspan as an economic war criminal when most others had decided he was ‚Äúthe greatest central banker who ever lived‚Äù, Hence I note with alarm that some commentators are so excited about the appointment of Mark Carney to the Bank of England Governorship that now he Carney, is now being dubbed ‚Äúthe world‚Äôs greatest central banker‚Äù. Oh dear! From everything I have read so far I fear that in the fullness of time he will have more similarities with Alan Greenspan than just this unwanted accolade and his legacy will be equally destructive." Of course the course isn't easy for Carney at the Bank of England. Dissent from the other members of the monetary policy committee could dampen his agenda, as could the constraints of fiscal policy. Carney will preside over his first meeting as the governor of the Bank of England this week. He isn't expected to announce additional gilt purchases at his first meeting.
APFinance books aren't usually considered a good beach read. But according to New York Times columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin, a solid Wall Street page turner can be just what you need to get you through summer vacation. This morning he published his "essential Wall Street summer reading list in Dealbook," from dramatic narratives to meaty economic history. There are 13 books on the list, we've listed about half. For the rest, head to NYT. 1. "Den of Thieves" by James Stewart "The book is a masterful look at the insider trading scandals and greed on Wall Street of the late 1980s and mirrors much of the current narrative with a colorful cast of characters," writes Sorkin. 2. "Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabiscoî by†Bryan Burrough and John Helyar Be embarrassed if you haven't read this absolute classic already ó†about the leveraged buyout of RJR Nabisco. 3. ìLiarís Pokerî by Michael Lewis "Liar's Poker" charts through Lewis's time as a trader at Salomon Brothers. 4. ìThe Informantî by Kurt Eichenwald Sorkin calls this book, about the Archer Daniels Midland price-fixing scandal, underappreciated. "The book reads like a John Grisham thriller that just happens to be true and happens to be about business," he writes. 5.†ìIndecent Exposureî by David McClintick "A rollicking good read about a Hollywood scandal and the ultimate boardroom power struggle at Columbia Pictures," Sorkin writes. 6.†ìLords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the Worldî by Liaquat Ahamed For a good Fed read, pick this one up. Ahamed won the Pulitzer Prize for his book about the runup to the Great Depression. It's also a favorite book of Ben Bernanke and Tim Geithner, according to Sorkin. 7. "Capitalism and Freedom" by Milton Friedman Sorkin calls this†"a seminal work that helped frame a long and heated debate about capitalism versus socialism that is still at the heart of the American discussion of the economy and politics." 8. ìThe World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-First Century" by Tom Friedman Friedman, Sorkin's colleague at the Times, "changed the way we think about global business, competitiveness and the implication for far-flung economies, governments, education and more." Read the full piece at The New York Times&gt;
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidThe price of gold peaked at just over $1,900 per ounce in the fall of 2011. And it was right around that time that commodities guru Jim Rogers began warning investors that the yellow metal could hit a low of $1,200 before the sell-off was over. He was right. Gold prices entered a bear market (down 20% from its high) in April. And on June 27, they touched $1,200. In a phone interview this week, Rogers explained to us how he arrived at the $1,200 figure.  He also offers his outlook for gold as it continues its complicated bottoming process. Business Insider: Two years ago, you told us you could see gold going to $1,200. How did you arrive at that level? Jim Rogers: I'm sure it was all based on intuition from Business Insider, but gold had been up at that point 11 - 12 years in a row which is an anomaly. I don't know any asset that's gone up 12 years without a down year, and gold needed and deserved a correction. And, if it's going to happen where would it go? $1,200 was between 35% - 40% and 35% - 40% reactions are commonplace, so that was the first number. I wish I could tell you I had a formula. I'm not sure we've found the final bottom yet, it would make a lot of sense for gold having had 12 years up, to have at least a longer consolidation, a longer correction, maybe a few days, a few weeks, or a year or two. Why not 2014, 2015? My view is that gold is in the process of making a complicated bottom which could take a while. So I'm not buying gold. I haven't sold any gold or silver, but I'm not buying any. I'm watching and expecting a new low, which might be lower. BI: Were there other things you were watching that made you think gold prices would fall? Emerging market demand or perhaps the Fed? JR: There were lots and lots of mystics who were convinced that gold was holy. That gold could not go down, that gold had to go up. And that's the reason I think gold hasn't made it's final bottom yet. It's because there are still lots and lots of mystics, people who tell me gold cannot go to $1,200. I say open your computer you'll see it is $1,200. Don't tell me it can't happen. Many people think this can't be happening or it's being manipulated and there's all sorts of excuses for what's going on. You know when you have people that are faithful, or true believers, you usually don't hit a true bottom until most of those people get washed out. I suspect that is still to come. I don't think many of the true believers have sold their gold yet. BI: Do you have any guesses for how long it would take to make a bottom? JR: I wish I was that smart. I don't really know it could happen before 2014 or 2015. But the bull market's not over. Gold is going to eventually make new highs. It seems that there may be another. It's because it had these 12 years without going down, I don't know anything in investment history that has gone up 12 years without a declining year. There may be something I just don't know of it.  BI: What drove gold prices higher for 12 years? JR: That's a very good question. Another question could be what's caused it to go down finally? What caused it to go up 12 years in a row was a 20 year bear market. Gold had collapsed starting in 1980 and it went down for over 20 years. It went down substantially. So, when you have a very long extended bear market like that, everybody sells out, mines close, mines open and you lay the foundation for a nice, long bull market. And that's what happened to gold after 20 year period of real despair in gold, then you can have a nice long bull market. And yes 12 years is a long time, but it's nowhere near 20 years. The foundation was built for a long-term bull market. Then it was driven by the fact that we had a lot of money printing in the world, we had a lot of debt, a lot of crises around the world. So there were all sorts of psychological reasons, all around the world, not just in America, for people to buy gold. AP Photo/Rajesh Kumar SinghNow what caused it to finally go down, and as much as I love India and Indians, they are the largest buyers of gold in the world. And India has a huge balance of trade deficit. The largest drivers are oil and gold. You can't do anything about oil so the Indian politicians are blaming their problems on gold. And they've taken many measures, and more measures are coming to diminish or even eliminate the import of gold. I'm not the only person who saw that. They've been pretty loud about it. That was the main catalyst or the straw which broke the camel's back which made gold start going down finally, after 12 years of going up. And the foundation had been built for over 20 years and many, many fundamental things came together. But then after 12 years of a bull market more mines started opening, more gold mines were formed and then the Indians said, among others, but mainly the Indians said we're going to stop all this. And by the way the French have also recently come out with measures that you cannot buy more than, anything, in cash for more than ‚Ç¨1000, to limit the purchase of gold. The Germans are also taking measures to make it more difficult to buy and sell gold. So you have a lot of governments coming together with measures against gold and silver, but especially the Indians. And the Indians are the largest buyers. All these things came together after 12 glorious years because the correction is worse than it would have been otherwise because of the 12 years. So it all fits together what did happen, what is happening, what will happen in gold. I'm not selling my gold. But even though it may be a couple of years more complicated base building, I fully expect the bull market to end in a bubble some day, and some day is not here yet. BI: Is there anything else our readers should know that I haven't asked you about? JR: I'm not selling my gold. I'm skeptical, even though I expect gold may go down even more to $1,000 to $900. A 50% correction would be $960 or whatever it is. Now 50% corrections are quite normal in markets. What's not normal is for something to go up 12 years in a row. So, it would be normal if gold did correct 50%. That might go some way towards shaking some of the faithful, some of the mystics. We got to shake out more people. I don't see any signs that the faithful, they've been worried about what's going on, but I don't see any signs yet that the faithful are giving up and selling their gold. Not just verbal despair, not just people talking about despair, but people acting. Then gold prices will make a nice, firm bottom. Stay tuned for the next part of our interview with Jim Rogers!
Mortgage News DailyToday Citi and some other banks quoted the 30-year conforming mortgage rate at 4.625%. Others are quoting the rate even higher (see national averages below). Once again, it's a low rate by historical standards, making many economists think that the housing sector is unlikely to be impacted. The markets say otherwise. Over the past three months, the Philadelphia Housing Index has underperformed the S&amp;P500 by 9%. Ycharts These higher rates may already be showing up in the employment numbers. In spite of the strong U.S. employment report today, on a seasonally-adjusted basis almost no new jobs have been created in residential construction in June (chart below). Sober Look
In The Fed Center, we‚Äôve aggregated links to their home pages, policy statements, publications, research papers, tweets, and the speeches of their top officials. Also new is The Fed Blog, which chronologically monitors the latest developments at the Federal Reserve and the other major central banks.
Gold investors have been getting destroyed in recent weeks, with the yellow metal falling nearly 40% from its 2011 high to this year's low. But it may be premature to declare the end of the yellow metal. Tom Fitzpatrick, Citi's top chartist, reminds us of the 1970's when we witnessed a similar move under similar conditions. He starts with a clip from an old New York Times article. Via King World News: New York Times, August 29, 1976:"Two years ago gold bugs ran wild as the price of gold rose nearly six times.¬† But since cresting two years ago it has steadily declined, almost by half, putting the gold bugs in flight.¬† The most recent advisory from a leading Wall Street firm suggests that the price will continue to drift downward, and may ultimately settle 40% below current levels.¬†  The rout says a lot about consumer confidence in the worldwide recovery.¬† The sharply reduced rates of inflation combined with resurgence of other, more economically productive investments, such as stocks, real estate, and bank savings have combined to eliminate gold's allure.  Although the American economy has reduced its rapid rate of recovery, it is still on a firm expansionary course.¬† The fear that dominated two years ago has largely vanished, replaced by a recovery that has turned the gold speculators' dreams into a nightmare." What happened next?¬† Here's Fitzpatrick: In 1976 the Gold correction ended in August and the Equity market began a deep correction in September (27% over 18 months).¬† During that period Gold rallied by about 78% and over the 1976-1980 period it multiplied in value by a factor of 8 from just over $100 to over $800.¬† The final part of that rally saw Gold rise from about $470 to $850 over about 4 weeks on the back of the USSR invasion of Afghanistan.¬† Even without that move it still multiplied by about 4.5 times in just over 3 years.  So, just because gold is down, it doesn't mean it's out. Here's Fitzpatrick's chart. Citi via King World News Read the whole piece at KingWorldNews.com.
