Kentucky Senator Rand Paul (R) is recommending a new approach toward the debt ceiling standoff. Unlike some of his fellow Republicans, Paul understands that forcing the country to default by refusing to raise the debt ceiling would make the Republicans look reckless and irresponsible (and, more importantly, would hurt the country). Instead, Paul recommends the following: "We could actually direct the President to pay our interest, make Social Security payments, pay soldier salaries, the basic functions that could keep government going. That way we take default off the table." In other words, pay the bondholders and soldiers and a few other folks. And stiff everyone else. Senator Paul's legislation, our Politics Editor Grace Wyler reports, "would ban federal spending on anything but interest payments on the national debt, Social Security checks, and military salaries." This new law, Paul explains, would instantly cut at least 30% of government spending and balance the budget overnight--thus alleviating the need to raise the debt ceiling or borrow more money. Paul certainly deserves credit for recognizing what many of his fellow Republicans do not: That forcing the country to default would be outrageously irresponsible and destructive. It would be the first time in history the country had defaulted, and the default would be entirely voluntary: The US is completely capable of paying its bills. Global stock markets would probably crash, global bond markets would probably freak out, the economy might suffer a heart attack, and so forth. Unfortunately, Paul's more reasonable plan would also destroy the economy. The US federal deficit right now is about $1.1 trillion (based on the most recent quarterly numbers, which show $2.7 trillion of tax receipts and $3.8 trillion of expenses). The US economy, meanwhile, is about $16 trillion. Cutting $1.1 trillion of spending overnight (balancing the budget) would thus instantly cut the size of the economy by 7%. In other words, it would instantly cause a severe economic recession. Also, it would effectively throw hundreds of thousands of government workers and contractors out of work. (Unless Sen. Paul would like these folks to continue to work for free.) It would also hurt every business that is dependent on some of that government spending for revenue. And those businesses would likely have to lay off workers to reduce their costs. And so on. And, ironically, as Greece and other countries that have tried the "austerity" approach have learned the hard way, this move would instantly reduce the government's tax revenues--because the folks who were fired or furloughed or asked to volunteer would no longer have any income on which to pay taxes (or, for that matter, with which to buy stuff and pay sales taxes). So the deficit would suddenly open up again. And the government would have to cut more spending. And so on. So, Senator Paul does deserve credit for being more reasonable than some of his fellow Republicans, who just want to force the country to default and the hell with everything else. But Senator Paul's alternative plan would also be devastating. We do indeed have a long-term deficit challenge in this country. We should indeed take steps to fix it. But we should absolutely not fix it right now by defaulting or otherwise suddenly cutting a huge amount of government spending. That course of action would be disastrous (and idiotic) for this country. †SEE ALSO: Rand Paul Explains Why It's So Hard To Cut Spending
The Japanese yen continues to tumble rapidly, as the new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe moves forward with his yen devaluing policies, which includes possibly targeting a 2 percent inflation rate. But this has many people wondering if the recent sell-off has gone too far, at least in the near-term. Jim O'Neill, Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, tackles this question in his latest Viewpoints note. While he appreciates the concern that too many people may be "Yen-bearish" on an anecdotal basis,† he isn't convinced it is really the case. Indeed, based on proprietary models, O'Neill believes that the yen has much further to fall. From his latest Viewpoints: Before the holiday break, I discussed conceptually how one might appreciate the scale of what a 2% inflation world in Japan could mean, and now we have developed it a bit more rigorously in a chart which I have attached. The smooth yellow line shows the so-called Goldman Sachs Dynamic Equilibrium Exchange Rate (GSDEER) for $/Yen, and the erratic pink line shows the actual movement. As can be seen, despite the big decline since November, the Yen remains notably overvalued against the Dollar. The fresh dotted blue line depicts what the GSDEER might have been if Japan had been targeting ñ and achieving ñ 2% inflation for the past 20 years. Quite a change, right? So, in the context of noise versus signals, if Japan is going to target 2% inflation, and presumably be quite serious about it, I wouldnít overly worry about positioning indicators. There is a difference between a consensus when it is correct and one that turns out to be wrong. And from what I can see, not many people really believe that Japan is serious about this yet, in any case. GSDEER is a model that O'Neill developed using the work of economist John Williamson. "John Williamson, his pioneering research on Fundamental Equilibrium Exchange Rates (FEERs) contributed to my basic thinking in creating the GS Dynamic Equilibrium Exchange Rate(GSDEER) framework for FX determination," O'Neill told Business Insider. Check out the chart.† From the looks of it, the yen could fall a whole lot more. Goldman Sachs Asset Management
YouTubeNarayana Kocherlakota is the head of the Minneapolis branch of the Federal Reserve, and he's one of the more intriguing figures in central banking. For a long time he argued that monetary stimulus could do verty little for the economy, since unemployment was largely structural. Then late last year he came to a shocking ideological U-Turn. He said that unemployment was cylical (meaning reflective of where we were in the economic cycle) and that more could be done. Tonight he gave a talk that ended with this remarkable paragraph: Congress has charged the Fed with making monetary policy to achieve two Main Street objectives: keep inflation close to 2 percent and unemployment low. Monetary policy tools operate with a lag of a year or two. These lags mean that the FOMC‚Äôs policy decisions are based on how it expects the economy to perform over the medium term. My own forecast, conditional on the FOMC‚Äôs current monetary policy stance, is that inflation will run below the Fed‚Äôs target of 2 percent over the next two years and the unemployment rate will remain elevated. This forecast suggests that, if anything, monetary policy is currently too tight, not too easy. This is a very deep insight, although one that Milton Friedman understood. Low rates are the symptom of tight monetary policy, because they reflect the fact that inflation is so muted and sub-goal. Given that the Fed has done all kinds of easing, the normal charge is that the Fed has been too easy. The actual record of the Fed, however, suggests the opposite, as Kocherlakota now says.
Where's the world heading? The Financialist, Credit Suisse's online publication on economic trends and projections, has created an awesome color-coded map that shows its economists' forecasts for real GDP growth during 2013. As well, they broke down country-by-country specific data and a projection of GDP per capita for a range of nations. Check it out below: The Financialist
APYou should definitely read my colleague Grace Wyler's conversation with Rand Paul (they're both in Israel right now) about the debt ceiling fight, and how he hopes the GOP could establish leverage. At the end of his conversation, he explains crystal clear why spending cuts don't ever happen, despite them being ostensibly popular. "Everybody is for spending cuts in the abstract, but then when you start naming specifics, people are like, 'No I won't vote for that because it's in my district or my state,'" he said. "It's a game ‚Äî we defer the pain, and we defer having the real guts."¬† This is something pundits say a lot, but you hear it less from politicians. Everyone is for spending cuts in the abstract. Nobody is for them when they get specific. That's why in the event of a debt ceiling government shutdown, the GOP would definitely lose, because people would see what deep spending cuts and a balanced budget really look like. Read Grace's full piece here &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsJapan just approved a  •10.3 trillion fiscal stimulus package.† That translates to around $116 billion dollars. Click Here For Updates &gt; Japan's Nikkei stock market index is up 1.2 percent as the yen tumbles. Speaking at a press conference, Japan's Shinzo Abe said that rebuilding the economy is the main aim of his administration. Earlier this morning, Shinzo reportedly said that an employment target could be used to guide monetary policy. Abe, the born-again Prime Minister of Japan, recently ran on the platform that he would push for aggressive easy monetary policy in an effort to stave off deflation and stimulate the economy. The prospect of an Abe administration in Japan had currency strategist slashing their targets on the yen and investors like Jeff Gundlach announcing short yen, long Japanese stock trades.
On January 14, Greg Walden, the GOP Rep. who has said he would introduce a bill to ban Treasury from minting a trillion dollar coin will introduce his bill, the "Stop The Coin Act." His office is seeking co-sponsors for the legislation. Staffers on Capitol hill have received this letter. Staff-† Rep. XXXXX invites your boss to join him as original cosponsor of a bill to prevent the Treasury from issuing a platinum coin(s) valued at an absurd level in a scheme to pay off a portion or all of the federal debt in order to avert the fiscal cliff. Yes, this loophole does in fact exist as detailed in the following dear colleague letter and attached one-pager. XXXX will be introducing the bill with original cosponsors next Monday, January 14. Attached is a one-pager. If you have questions, my direct is XXXXX† If your boss would like to join, please let me know. Here's the attached "one-pager" that's being sent around in order to drum up support: The Constitution in Article 1, Section 8, Clause 5 provides the legislative branch the power to coin money and regulate the value thereof.† Federal law provides the Secretary of the Treasury the ability to mint and issue various denominations and types of coins. The law specifies many attributes of the various coins that can be minted and how the Secretary is able to issue them as legal tender. The law also specifies how the sale price of certain coins (i.e. Silver, Gold, Palladium) are to be valued.†† Currently, federal law allows the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury to mint ìplatinum bullion coinsî and ìproof platinum coinsî and issue them at a value determined at his own discretion.† Unlike other authorities within the law that limit and restrict the Secretary from selling gold coins to the public at a price greater than the market value of the metal at the time of sale plus the cost of producing, marketing and distributing the coins, the law is silent as to how much the platinum coins could be sold for.†† Within the last week, numerous media reports (example here ) have suggested that the U.S. Mint (Treasury) could create trillion dollar platinum coins, which would then be deposited into the Federal Reserve to be used to pay the federal governmentís bills or avoid hitting the debt ceiling.††† Purpose The STOP THE COIN ACT would prevent the Secretary of the Treasury from minting platinum coins that could then be sold to the Federal Reserve and used to offset our national debt or prevent reaching the debt ceiling. The bill simply closes a loophole in the law by applying the existing limitations on how the Treasury could price gold coins or gold bullion to the Treasuryís authority to mint and sell platinum bullion coins or proofs platinum coins. This bill would not prevent the Treasury or Mint from producing commemorative platinum coins for circulation or sale, but it would take the coin scheme off the table by disallowing the Treasury from printing mint platinum coins as a way to pay down the debt or avert a debt ceiling fight.†††† Rep. Jerrold Nadler, the ranking member of the Judiciary Committeeís Subcommittee on the Constitution, touted the proposal last week (story here ). New York Times columnist and Princeton professor Paul Krugman suggested the idea in an article as well (click here ). Other leaders in Washington, including House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, have urged the President to raise the debt limit unilaterally without permission from Congress. Of course, there's zero chance this will ever pass both houses, but if it did, it would also need the President's signature. Presuming he ever planned to actually MintTheCoin, there's no chance it would be solved. SEE ALSO: Why Greg Walden wants to stop the trillion dollar platinum coin &gt;
Gage Skidmore/FlickrGOLAN HEIGHTS ó In a renewed attempt to force President Barack Obama's hand on the debt limit, Kentucky Republican Sen. Rand Paul is pushing legislation that would ban federal spending on anything but interest payments on the national debt, Social Security checks, and military salaries.† Paul, who is traveling through Israel this week, told Business Insider here Thursday that he believes the GOP should take a more pro-active approach to the coming fight over raising the debt ceiling. Rather than march the country toward a government shutdown ó and spook markets with possible default ó Paul argued that Republicans should pass a bill that would†force the government to prioritize payments to bondholders. "The only real way to have leverage with the debt ceiling is to convince people that we are not going to default on our debt," Paul said. "We could actually direct the President to pay our interest, make Social Security payments, pay soldier salaries, the basic functions that could keep government going. That way we take default off the table. They always scare us into raising the debt ceiling by saying that the stock markets will tank, everyone will go crazy if we default. I don't think we should default ó but I don't think we should raise the debt ceiling either."† As Paul points out, this would automatically force the federal budget into balance, a position he argues would give Republicans leverage to push through a comparatively gradual balanced budget amendment, similar to the "Cut, Cap and Balance" amendment that House Republicans passed in 2011.† "We have tax receipts to pay for about 70 percent of the government and we're running deficits of about 30 percent, so what I would say is pay for the 70 percent we would all keep going and stop paying the other 30 percent until we come to an agreement," Paul said. "That agreement would include an amendment to gradually balance the budget over five years. The only thing the debt ceiling would do is force us immediately to have a balanced budget."† Though far-fetched, Paul's plan is a creative way for the GOP to leverage the debt ceiling fight to cut spending; without similar legislation, it is not clear that the Treasury would have the legal authority to prioritize its payments, making default a possibility.† Still, there are two big problems with Paul's idea.† First, he assumes that potential default ó not Draconian spending cuts ó would be the only explanation for a market scare. Second, there is little political will to actually balance the budget. As Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal argues today, as soon as the austerity measures went into effect, support for the spending cuts would evaporate and Congress would vote to raise the debt ceiling.† Even Paul concedes this roadblock:† "Everybody is for spending cuts in the abstract, but then when you start naming specifics, people are like, 'No I won't vote for that because it's in my district or my state,'" he said. "It's a game ó we defer the pain, and we defer having the real guts."†
Twitter/@VPThe National Rifle Association slammed Vice President Joe Biden and the White House gun violence task force following the pair's meeting today. In a statement released after the meeting, the NRA said that the meeting had little to do "with keeping our children safe" and was part of an "agenda to attack the Second Amendment." Here's the NRA's full statement: The National Rifle Association of America is made up of over 4 million moms and dads, daughters and sons, who are involved in the national conversation about how to prevent a tragedy like Newtown from ever happening again. †We attended today's White House meeting to discuss how to keep our children safe and were prepared to have a meaningful conversation about school safety, mental health issues, the marketing of violence to our kids and the collapse of federal prosecutions of violent criminals.† We were disappointed with how little this meeting had to do with keeping our children safe and how much it had to do with an agenda to attack the Second Amendment. †While claiming that no policy proposals would be ìprejudged,î this Task Force spent most of its time on proposed restrictions on lawful firearms owners - honest, taxpaying, hardworking Americans. †It is unfortunate that this Administration continues to insist on pushing failed solutions to our nation's most pressing problems. We will not allow law-abiding gun owners to be blamed for the acts of criminals and madmen. Instead, we will now take our commitment and meaningful contributions to members of congress of both parties who are interested in having an honest conversation about what works - and what does not.† Earlier on Thursday, Biden said that he would present his recommendations on curbing gun violence to the President by next Thursday. He also outlined some of the proposals, some of which do not play well with the NRA. Biden said that there were some recommendations that had come up repeatedly in his meetings with different groups ó closing the so-called "gun show loophole" and instituting universal background checks. He also mentioned a possible limit on high-capacity magazines, as well as improving the "ability of any federal agency to do research on gun violence. "I have a real very tight window to do this," he added. "The public wants us to act." Biden also met with sporting groups earlier on Thursday to discuss combating gun violence. He will meet later Thursday evening with representatives of the entertainment industry. UPDATE (6:55 p.m.):†NRA President David Keene gave a similar take on the meeting while appearing tonight on CNN. He said that the White House and Biden, "in a sense, were checking a box" so that they could say they were reaching out to groups like the NRA. He said there was "no common ground" on guns between the two sides. "We are not going to agree on these gun questions," he said.
Here is the problem with all economic analysis - data revisions. ¬†Each month economists, analysts and the media work off reported numbers to make assumptions about the economy. ¬†However, the problem is that most of the assumptions made generally wind up being wrong when the data is revised. ¬† This is one reason why predicting recessions is so difficult. ¬†Currently, there are many that foresee "no recession" in the coming months and that may well be the case. ¬†However, as I have discussed previously, the problem that exists for me, any other student of the economy, is that we are all working with lagging data that continues to be revised at much later dates. ¬†Waiting on these data revisions is specifically why the National Bureau of Economic Research's (NBER), who officially dates recessions in the U.S., announcements are always months after the recession actually started. ¬† This week the Philadelphia Federal Reserve issued their revisions to the widely followed Philadelphia Federal Reserve Survey for 2012. ¬†The chart below shows the difference to the "Current General Activity" portion of the survey which is what is reported by the media. Street Talk Live What is important to notice is that the survey overstated both strength and weakness in the survey all year long. ¬†However, the deterioration in the subcomponents was just as notable particularly in the areas that most directly affect employment - backlogs, and new orders. Street Talk Live Furthermore, future expectations have been sharply declining since September. ¬†The outlook for overall activity, new orders, shipments, backlogs, and employment have all been negatively impacted since the election. ¬†While future expectations of capital expenditures have risen during the last quarter this is most likely a function of plans to increase productivity to preserve compressing profit margins. ¬† Street Talk Live Regardless, there are few relative positives and the revisions in the data for 2012 showed a much weaker environment than previously believed. ¬† In the coming months ahead we will get the annual revisions to incomes, spending, and employment which are all primary constituents of the GDP calculation and the determination of a recession. ¬†While I currently do not expect a recession in the near term we cannot rule out the possibility of one later in 2013 due to higher taxes and potentially larger than expected cuts in spending. ¬†We remain conservatively invested until we are past the debt ceiling debate and have more clarity on the direction and trend of the markets.
Chinese inflation data for December will be out 8:30 p.m. ET.¬† Analysts polled by Bloomberg are looking for consumer prices to rise 2.3 percent year-over-year (YoY), from 2 percent in November. They also expect producer prices to decline 1.8 percent YoY, compared with -2.2 percent in November. Bank of America's Ting Lu expects consumer prices to climb 2.3 percent and food prices in particular to rise 1.9 percent on higher pork and vegetable prices. "According to the Ministry of Commerce, the average wholesale price of vegetable in the first two weeks of December increased by 12.1% from November and is expected to continue rising in the following weeks." He expects producer prices to fall 1.8 percent. Here's a look at Chinese inflation from 2001: Bank of America ¬† SEE ALSO: A Crazy Chinese Deep Freeze Is Causing Vegetable Prices To Surge [PHOTOS] &gt;
As federal regulators and banks argue over whether new lending standards will make mortgage credit too tight or too expensive, one important fact about the housing market goes largely overlooked: More than 20 million American homeowners own their homes outright. No mortgage. This represents just about one third of all homeowners nationwide, according to a new report from Zillow, a real estate information, sales and mortgage website. Demographics, home prices and geographical location all seem to play into "free-and-clear" home ownership, according to Zillow's survey. Out of the nation's top 30 housing markets, Pittsburgh, Tampa, New York, Cleveland and Miami had the highest percentage of free-and-clear homeowners. A high number of all-cash, foreign buyers probably plays into New York and Miami. The other cities have relatively low home values, compared to the rest of the nation, making it easier for homeowners to either buy their homes outright or pay off their mortgages more quickly. Washington, D.C., Atlanta, Las Vegas, Denver and Charlotte had the lowest percentage of homeowners with no mortgage. Las Vegas, hard hit by the housing crash, saw many of its homes go to foreclosure and those homes then go to all-cash investors. (Read More: Banks Pay Big for Robo-Signing‚Ä¶Again.) Demographic factors, like age and credit rating, also influence who does and who does not have a mortgage. According to Zillow, 65- to 74-year-olds are most likely to be free-and-clear, followed by 74- to 84-year-olds. Obviously the longer someone owns a home, the more likely they are to have paid off a mortgage. When looking at free-and-clear ownership rates as a percentage of homeowners in various age groups, however, Zillow found 34.5 percent of 20- to 24-year-old homeowners are free of mortgages. That may be a factor of the recent housing crash and tighter lending standards. (Read More: Mortgage Recovery Still Rocky.) So what can these factors tell us about the current housing recovery? One of the biggest drags on the housing market is that nearly one third of all borrowers owe more on their mortgages than their homes are currently worth. These so-called "underwater" borrowers are stuck in place, unless they want to pay in to their mortgages to get out of their homes. Obviously if a homeowner does not have a mortgage, they are more able to list their home for sale and buy a new property. (Read More: Already Time to Throw Up Caution Signs on Housing?) "By determining where these homeowners are located, we can also gain insight into potential inventory and demand in those areas, as well," notes Zillow's chief economist Stan Humphries. Looking at the national map, mortgage holders appear to be concentrated on the coasts, where home prices are higher. The center of the country and much of the south carries less mortgage debt.
Wikimedia CommonsA $1 trillion-dollar coin seems like a high denomination to ask the government to mint. Some say its weight could sink the Titanic! (This is benightedly ludicrous). But one time, the U.S. government actually got 1/10000000th of the way there ó by printing a $100,000 bill. And it really helped the economy.
Flickr via bredgurBack in November I was interviewed by Joe Weisenthal at Business Insider. One of my comments during our discussion on state and local governments was: "I wouldnít be surprised if we see, all of a sudden, a report come out, 'Hey, weíve got a balanced budget in California.'" And today from Reuters: California Governor's budget has surprise: a surplus The state expects $98.5 billion in revenues and transfers and plans [on] spending $97.7 billion, according to the proposal published on the state Department of Finance website.That leaves a surplus of $851 million for the year, in addition to a projected $785 million surplus for the current fiscal year, which ends in June, allowing the state to put $1 billion toward a rainy day fund.Brown said he saw a balanced budget for the next four years. Spending in the upcoming year is set to rise 5 percent, or $4.7 billion, from the current 2012-13 budget. Schools and universities will see a $4 billion boost, health care spending will rise $1.2 billion, while transfers to local government will drop $2.1 billion. This is a tentative surplus, and there is plenty of debt, but this is another small positive step. The plan in California is to increase spending slightly in the upcoming year after several years of budget cuts.As I mentioned in the previous post, moving from state and local budget cuts to some small increases will be a plus for the economy.
Sotheby'sA deal for a four-bedroom apartment at 15 Central Park West has closed for $32.5 million, a 92 percent mark up over its last sales price, The Real Deal has learned. The unit, owned by former Lehman Brothers executives Arthur and Evelyne Estey, was listed by Kyle Blackmon of Brown Harris Stevens for $36 million. Tamir Shemesh of the Corcoran Group represented the buyer in the deal, a source said. Neither Blackmon nor Shemesh immediately responded to a request for comment. An email to Arthur Estey went unreturned. As The Real Deal previously reported, the unit, which is one of the largest non-penthouse residences in the building, totals 4,584 square feet and is on the seventh floor. It was listed in June by Blackmon, who also lives in the Zeckendorf-developed tower. The couple bought the unit for $16.9 million in 2007, public records show. The Esteys have moved on since their Lehman days. Arthur Estey established his maiden hedge fund in 2009; Evelyn recently took a position as chief financial officer and chief operating officer of a French-language school, Lyc√©e Fran√ßais de New York, on the Upper East Side. The identity of the buyer was not immediately clear.
US FundsFrank Holmes, the Chief Investment Officer at U.S. Funds, just published his market outlook for 2013. In his presentation titles More Sunshine, Less Storms, Holmes offers the key charts that underlie his bullish call on commodities, an asset class that underperformed in 2012. In short, he argues that much of the uncertainty from last year will be washed away by two major themes: strengthening emerging markets and the rise of American energy production. There are also some interesting correlations that have emerged between bond flows, equities and gold. Check it out. Thanks to US Funds for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
CNBC just tweeted that Steve Cohen's SAC Capital is closing its Chicago office. The hedge fund was the most profitable of the large hedge funds in 2012, according to Bloomberg, but it is under intense scrutiny from federal regulators. 
Headlines are crossing that incoming Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo†Abe, who has been vocal in his efforts to weaken the Japanese yen, has said that the Bank of Japan should target unemployment ñ a significantly dovish shift from the central bank's current policy. Bloomberg says Nikkei is reporting the comments. Below is a chart of the yen versus the U.S. dollar (the USD/JPY pair): FINVIZ SEE ALSO: Japan's Aging Population Could Soon Struggle To Buy Food Thanks To The Yen's Decline &gt;
Sales of Ugg boots are plummeting amid speculation that the boots are going out of style.† Deckers Outdoor, the parent company of Ugg, has a risky solution for fixing the flailing shoemaker,†Joel Schectman at The Wall Street Journal†reports.† It's shifting away from its wholesale bread-and-butter and doubling its retail store footprint.† "Many retailers are unwilling to sell Decker products, beyond the classic UGG boots, limiting sales of UGG sandals and sneakers geared towards spring, fall and summer," Schectman reported.† Deckers aims to have 200 stores by the end of 2015 ó that's more than double its current 78 locations.† This isn't the first time Ugg has attempted to distance itself from its signature boots. The retailer hired football player Tom Brady as a celebrity spokesman in an attempt to bring in male customers.† But Ugg has struggled to expand product offerings in the past because it couldn't compete with department stores' more-established brands in categories like gloves, heels, coats, or sandles.† "Large retailers arenít going to shelve UGG coats and scarves instead of more established brands,'î Scott Krasik an analyst with of BB&amp;T Capital Markets,†told Schectman.† And that's where Ugg's plan gets risky.†While having more retail stores will allow Ugg to stock anything it wants, the question remains of whether consumers will shell out for items that aren't boots.† But Ugg might be able to pull off the expansion because its brand power is powerful, Randal Konik, an analyst at Jefferies, wrote in November.† "Google search trends, Facebook likes and unique visitors to the Ugg website all show that the brand is still healthy and relevant,íí he wrote. DON'T MISS:†How Tory Burch Became A Fashion Billionaire†&gt;
American Express just announced that it is cutting 5400 jobs. Cuts will be made across seniority levels, but the travel sector will get hit the hardest. The company itself will take a $287 million hit related to the layoffs. Here's the press release from the company: American Express Reports Strong Cardmember Volumes and Revenues for Fourth Quarter; Will Recognize Charges for Restructuring, Membership Rewards and Cardmember Reimbursements NEW YORK,† January 10, 2013 --†  American Express Company (NYSE: AXP) said today that cardmember spending, revenue growth and credit quality remained strong during the fourth quarter despite an uneven economy.† Net income for the quarter, however, reflects costs associated with three items: Fourth Quarter ResultsAfter reflecting the impact of these items, net income for the quarter was $637 million, or $0.56 per share. Excluding these items, fourth quarter adjusted net income was $1.2 billion, or $1.09 per share[1]. For the year ago period, net income was $1.2 billion, or $1.01 per share.†Fourth quarter consolidated total revenues net of interest expense were $8.1 billion, up 5 percent from $7.7 billion a year ago. Cardmember spending was 8 percent higher than a year ago, despite a brief dip in late October/early November reflecting the impact of Hurricane Sandy on consumers and businesses in the northeastern United States. Credit indicators remained at historically low levels.† The write-off rate for the U.S. lending portfolio (principal only) was 2.0 percent for the quarter. Fourth quarter and full year 2012 results will be released as scheduled on January 17, 2013.† ìWeíve delivered strong results since coming out of the recession and have been consistently gaining share in a very competitive U.S. industry,î said Kenneth I. Chenault, chairman and chief executive officer.† ìIn addition to strengthening our ties to merchants and cardmembers, we have launched products for new customer segments, expanded into new geographies internationally, and extended our presence well beyond the traditional American Express footprint. ìAll of this has been taking place at a time when technology is transforming the world of commerce, regulatory changes are reshaping the financial industry, and customer loyalty has become more important than ever. ìMaintaining our momentum in this environment will require us to evolve our business, embrace new technologies, become more efficient and generate resources to invest in the many growth opportunities weíve identified. ìRegardless of the environment, success is also going to be defined by doing whatís right for our customers.† We never want to make mistakes, but we are fully committed to correcting them and providing compensation when appropriate. At a time when public confidence in financial institutions is at a low point, we want to make sure that we live up to the reputation weíve earned over many years for delivering superior value and service to our customers.† The material costs for reimbursement that we are able to identify have been recognized, but we are going to continue to work closely with regulators and strengthen our controls as part of our personal commitment to protecting the integrity of the American Express brand.î RestructuringThe restructuring charge mentioned above will consist largely of severance payments related to the elimination of an estimated 5,400 jobs. Those reductions will be partly offset by jobs the company expects to add during the year.† Overall staffing levels by year end 2013 are expected to be 4 to 6 percent less than the current total of 63,500. Elements of the restructuring program include: The job reductions will take place across seniority levels, businesses and staff groups. The largest reductions will come in the travel businesses, which operate in an industry that is being fundamentally reinvented as a result of the digital revolution. Overall, reductions will be spread proportionally between the U.S. and international markets and will primarily involve positions that do not directly generate revenue. Changes within the customer service organization are designed to help us continue to deliver award-winning service and operate at maximum efficiency as more customers and merchants do business with us through online and mobile alternatives. ìAgainst the backdrop of an uneven economic recovery, these restructuring initiatives are designed to make American Express more nimble, more efficient and more effective in using our resources to drive growth,î said Mr. Chenault. ìFor the next two years, our aim is to hold annual operating expense increases to less than 3 percent[2].†The overall restructuring program will put us in a better position as we seek to deliver strong results for shareholders and to maintain marketing and promotion investments at about 9 percent of revenues.î Membership Rewards EstimatesMembership Rewards, the industryís largest and most successful customer loyalty program, allows cardmembers to accumulate points each month and redeem them at a future date by choosing offers from hundreds of our merchant partners. Determining the costs for this program is a multi-step process that uses predictive models to estimate the amount of earned points that will ultimately be redeemed by cardmembers, and then applies an estimated average cost per point that the company will incur for those redemptions. Following a previously announced review, the company enhanced the ultimate redemption rate (URR) estimation process, refining the predictive model it uses for the U.S. program. These changes increased the global URR assumption to 94 percent from 93 percent and translated to an additional $342 million in the balance sheet reserve for Membership Rewards and a corresponding charge in the fourth quarter. ìLoyalty and reward programs are one of our major competitive advantages,î said Mr. Chenault. ìThey have been a centerpiece of our marketing efforts and based on their success we have expanded them during the last few years to offer broader opportunities for cardmembers to earn and redeem points.† The enhancements weíve made to our models predict even greater usage of the program in the future and that has traditionally meant closer, more meaningful relationships with our cardmembers.î† Cardmember ReimbursementsAs previously reported the company has been cooperating with ongoing regulatory reviews and continues to enhance its compliance controls. The companyís analyses of cardmember inquiries, complaints and account records from the last several years have identified instances where: Separately, the company identified additional cardmembers during the quarter who will receive restitution as part of the consent orders we entered into with various U.S. banking regulators in October.† That restitution, which amounts to an incremental $33 million, relates to previously disclosed issues with debt collection settlement letters. † Impacted cardmembers will be notified directly in the coming months. American Express will hold a conference call for investors to discuss this announcement at 5:00 p.m. (ET) today. A live audio webcast of the investor conference call will be available to the general public on the American Express Investor Relations web site at http://ir.americanexpress.com.† A replay of the investor conference call will be available after the call at the same web site address. These results represent preliminary estimates for the three months ended December 31, 2012.
Falling Outside The Normal Moral ConstraintsStocks had another strong day, closing at a multi-year high. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,471, +80.7, +0.6 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,472, +11.1, +0.7 percentNASDAQ: 3,121, +15.9, +0.5 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
The consensus view on Wall Street is that the stock market ‚Äì specifically, the S&amp;P 500 ‚Äì will appreciate around 10 percent in 2013. Moreover, there is very little deviation from that consensus among Wall Street strategists. However, even though everyone seems to agree that stocks are set for a pretty good year in 2013, no one is really predicting that they move up in a straight line ‚Äì especially in the first half of the year. After all, the S&amp;P 500 has already rallied around 9.5 percent since mid-November, and many are waiting for a correction. Credit Suisse strategist Andrew Garthwaite recently identified eight sentiment indicators at or near multi-year highs that suggest investors have gotten too bullish too quickly, and thus a correction may be at hand. Goldman Sachs has the same idea, and the chart below ‚Äì wherein Goldman strategists predict a dip in the market in the first quarter ‚Äì is pretty representative of the general vibe on Wall Street.  In a note to clients today, BofA strategist Michael Hartnett echoes this storyline. He also suggests two catalysts for the selloff everyone is waiting for: (1) 1994 redux (liquidity surprises on downside)  As we have highlighted recently, asset returns in 2012 were eerily similar to returns in 1993, the last time we emerged from a long recession/jobless recovery. Banks were the best performing sector in 2012 for the first time since 1993, heavily hinting that deleveraging is coming to an end. While the Fed has committed to maintain its easing program, US homebuilding stocks hint that policy will not stay easy indefinitely (chart), and the bond market is likely to overreact should a strong payroll figure (check out what happened in February 1994) suggest a sharper drop in the unemployment rate this year. (2)¬†The ‚ÄúFiscal Whiff‚Äù and a currency war While DC‚Äôs fiscal philosophy is broadly ‚Äúno pain, no pain‚Äù, taxes have decisively risen in the US and we worry weaker consumption growth could cause a weaker US dollar. Alternatively yen depreciation could accelerate to the point of raising JGB yields sharply Either way, it is clear that many nations want/need a weaker currency ‚Äì should China also feel the need for a weaker FX (watch CNY and ADXY) then the risks of a risk-negative FX war would start to grow. Gold would rally sharply, but note a rise in gold prices and a fall in bond prices precipitated the 1987 crash.¬† Says Hartnett, "Now that there is seemingly nothing left to worry about, perhaps it may be a good time to start worrying."
Douglas EllimanMarvin Schwartz, managing director and portfolio manager at Neuberger Berman, is selling his amazing Westchester estate for $30 million, the NY Post reports. The place is called Twin Ponds (one of the ponds is under the house), and it sits on 21.7 acres of land. The 6 bedroom, 3,600 square foot house boasts floor to ceilings windows, but it's really the grounds that will take your breath away. The pool and massive wine cellar aren't too shabby either. Sally Slater at Douglas Elliman has the listing.
White House/flickrAutomatic spending cuts in the sequester established by the Budget Control Act of 2011 were delayed until March 1 by the patchwork "fiscal cliff" deal cobbled together by U.S. politicians over the holidays. The cuts amount to approximately $109 billion in spending each year through 2021 ñ approximately half of those cuts from the defense budget, and the other half come from non-defense discretionary spending. The hope is that Republicans and Democrats can arrive at a deal that will avert a full sequester, thus preserving some of the government spending measures on the chopping block. However, Republican House Speaker John Boehner now appears to be using the prospect of the automatic cuts as his main point of leverage over President Obama and congressional Democrats in upcoming budget talks. So, it's worth taking a look at the impact on the U.S. economy in the event that we get a full sequester, and none of the automatic spending cuts are averted on March 1. There are a few estimates of the impact to GDP floating around on Wall Street, but crucially, they depend on the†fiscal multiplier used in the calculation ñ an unknown variable that must be estimated. The fiscal multiplier basically states how many dollars GDP is reduced for each dollar of spending that is cut from the government's budget. So, if the multiplier used is above 1, each dollar of spending cut from the budget results in more than a dollar being subtracted from GDP. If the multiplier is below 1, the opposite is true: each dollar of cuts subtracts economic growth by less than a dollar. Another variable is the type of spending cut being examined. Cuts to funding for food stamps, for example, will have a different multiplier than cuts to funding for defense. The fiscal multipliers used on Wall Street vary. BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris uses a multiplier of 1.2 ñ on the high end, but one he deems "conservative." Harris says a fiscal multiplier of 1.2 implies a 1 percentage point drag on GDP growth: As most of our readers know, the spending sequester is a legacy of the debt ceiling agreement back in August 2011. At that time, Republicans argued that any increase in the debt ceiling should be matched by equal cuts in spending over the next 10 years. Indeed, that one-for-one rule is sometimes called the ìBoehner rule.î Under that agreement, the debt ceiling was raised in two steps. The first set of cuts is already under way and will accelerate from $20 bn last year to $40 bn this year. The second set of cuts is the sequester: more than $100 bn in across-the-board cuts in both defense and nondefense discretionary spending per year.  Under the cliff compromise, these cuts were delayed for two months and only by agreeing to $24 bn in new austerity. This, in effect, preserves the Boehner rule. In fact, at this rate there will need to be $144 bn (= 6 x $24 bn) in austerity to delay the sequester through the end of the year.  Absent new legislation, the across-the-board cuts kick in at the start of March. Assuming a conservative spending multiplier of 1.2, that implies about a 1% hit to GDP growth. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale economists use a much lower fiscal multiplier ñ 0.5. when they apply that to the prospect of full sequestration, they get a much lower estimate of the hit to GDP: 0.4 percentage points. Similarly, Credit Suisse economists believe that "If the automatic spending cuts are implemented, then there is another 1/2% hit to GDP growth." So, Credit Suisse is probably using a multiplier closer to SocGen's 0.5 estimate than BofA's 1.2 figure. To sum it up, Wall Street economists seem to think a full sequester including all of the automatic spending cuts slated for March 1 could reduce GDP on the order of 0.5 to 1.0 percent.
HerbalifeHerbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products, responded to hedge fund manager Bill Ackman's massive short position today.† Last month, Ackman, who runs $11 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, presented a three-hour long short thesis explaining that he thinks Herbalife is a pyramid scheme. His hedge fund is shorting more than 20 million shares and has a price target of zero. †In other words, he thinks the company is going to fail.† Herbalife finally responded today with it's own two-hour, 102-slide investor and analyst day presentation at an event in Midtown Manhattan.† In their presentation, Herbalife aims to debunk the points that Ackman made about their distribution, retail sales and accounting methods, among other things. †Herbalife also claimed that Ackman was "misleading" and used "misinformation."† We've included the full presentation in the slides that follow. During the presentation, shares of Herbalife moved up more than 5%. †They were last trading down more than 4%.†
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. European Separatism Is One Of 2013's Biggest Red Herrings (Financial Times)  Despite separatist demands in Spain, Scotland, and Belgium, Ian Bremmer president of Eurasia Group says European separatism is one of the biggest red herrings of 2013.  Catalonia will move towards a referendum but is unlikely to vote till 2014, and by then a deal with Madrid could calm demands for autonomy. Similarly a call for Scottish autonomy is a 2014 issue.† Many Scots are concerned with what this would mean for defense and oil revenues with the UK. BATS Trading System Errors Add To Concerns About Electronic Trading (Bloomberg) BATS, the third largest stock exchange operator in the U.S. said that machines that match orders and one options venue had let some trades go through at prices that were lower than the best bid the was available at the time. They also let some violate short sales rules. Customers lost $420,360 because of the violations.† This has added to concerns about electronic trading. BATS CEO Joe Ratterman told The Wall Street Journal that such problems are a "part of the business of being an exchange in an electronic environment". CHART: Post-Election Years Are Great For Gold Mining Stocks (US Funds)  Federal election years have been bad for gold miners as measured by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver Index (XAU), according to Frank Holmes at U.S. Funds. Post-election years however tend to be great. US Funds The Health Of The Traditional Brokerage Model Is Being Questioned (The Wall Street Journal)  Traditionally the fourth quarter is the time when brokerages post their strongest results, since it is the time when there is little movement of brokers since it is difficult to transfer registration. And because its the best time for fees and commissions since that is when clients assets are moved to the best tax position.† In coming weeks, the biggest brokerages will report how they did in terms of client-asset growth and adviser retention.† If the performance is unchanged it will raise concerns about the viability of the traditional brokerage model.  ROSENBERG: Treasuries Are Selling Off, But We've Seen This Happen 8 Times Since 2007 (Gluskin Sheff) "The Treasury market has sold off recently, and the 10-year note yield has already moved up nearly 50 basis points from its nearby multi-decade low (jumping more than 20 bps in less than two weeks). It was overbought then.† It is oversold now... but let's not pretend we haven't seen these hiccups before.† We have had no fewer than eight such episodes of 50+ basis points spasms since yields peaked in the summer of 2007. Each one did not last long and presented a gift of a buying opportunity for patient investors who have an ability to see the forest past the trees.† Typically, these hiccups last 49 trading days and the yield rises an average of 88 bps, with about three quarters of the prior rally being reversed. Even though this recent setback of Treasuries has exceeded the historical norm in duration and as such a near-term bounce is likely in the offing, recent history suggests it is not impossible to see a move to a 2-2.3% band during this time. But is this nothing more than a blip in what is still a secular bull market in bonds? Recent history would say yes."
In their efforts to block health care reform, politicians often claim that the U.S. has the best health care system in the world.¬† As such, we shouldn't tinker with it. The evidence, however, points to a different conclusion: the U.S. health care system provides less quality and less value compared to its international counterparts.¬† The New York Times recently published an article that discusses the results of a comprehensive study convened by the Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council on mortality rates and other measures of health care. The expert panel concluded that there is a ‚ÄòU.S. health disadvantage,‚Äô according to Sabrina Tavernise at the Times: The panel called the pattern of higher rates of disease and shorter lives ‚Äúthe U.S. health disadvantage,‚Äù and said it was responsible for dragging the country to the bottom in terms of life expectancy over the past 30 years. American men ranked last in life expectancy among the 17 countries in the study, and American women ranked second to last. Aaron Carroll of The Incidental Economist points us to the report, U.S. Health in International Perspectives: Shorter Lives, Poorer Health, which has plenty of charts that confirm these findings.¬† For instance, when it comes to the health of a pregnant mother or her soon-to-be/newborn child, the U.S. has the highest mortality rate among all developed nations: National Research Council and Institute of MedicineNational Research Council and Institute of Medicine ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† The U.S. is also home to the third-worst mortality rate by nutritional deficiencies, the second-worst rate of death through respiratory disease, and the highest absolute age-adjusted mortality rate amongst all developed nations: National Research Council and Institute of Medicine So, what does the U.S. pay for this degree of service? Short answer: more than any other country on the planet, as indicated by these charts: World Health Organization, Business Insider World Health Organization, Business Insider Nearly all these advanced countries, which provide better health care outcomes at a lower per capita cost, have a system of universal health care in place.
President Barack Obama is sending a pointed message to Republicans by nominating Jack Lew as Treasury Secretary: I'm not backing down from this budget fight. This is certainly a blow to any hope that Republicans might have had that Obama would flinch from his pledge not to negotiate over the debt ceiling. The president has said he will demand a clean bill raising the debt ceiling, unattached to any conditions or spending cuts. (Read More: Get Ready: US May Hit Debt Ceiling by Mid-February) To call Lew's relationship with Capitol Hill Republicans strained would be an understatement. According to some on the Hill, there just is no relationship anymore. "We do not even bother talking to him," a staffer for a Republican senator said. (Read More: In Picking Lew, Obama Turns a Page at Treasury) When Senate GOP leader Mitch McConnell called Vice President Joe Biden as the deadline to cut a deal to avoid the fiscal cliff loomed, it was a sign of the tensions between the senator and Lew. McConnell had to create a new channel for negotiations because he could no longer go through the White House. Here's how Manu Raju at Politico.com describes the tensions between Lew and Republicans: Several Republicans said Tuesday they don't view Lew as a man interested in hearing GOP concerns. One aide called him "tone deaf" in understanding the compromises that Republicans could accept during high-stakes talks. "No matter what you're proposing or no matter what compromise you're trying to forge, he comes at it from a position of, 'Whatever you want, I have to be against,'" the GOP aide said. "It doesn't advantage him in the negotiation, he doesn't get a different policy outcome than he would otherwise. It just irritates people. Ö It's as much personality as anything else." These tensions are not new. Lew alienated Republican lawmakers during the summer of 2011 when he was director of the White House Office of Management and Budget. According to Brendan Miniter's book Leading from Behind, House Speaker John Boehner complained during the 2011 debt ceiling negotiations that he simply could not negotiate with Lew. (Read More: No More Mr. Nice Guy: New Battles Ahead for Obama) "Whatever Boehner proposed, Lew would spurn in favor of his own, usually more complicated ideas. And Lew returned again and again to proposals Boehner had unambiguously refused. Lew had lost the trust of the House Republicans," Miniter writes. Noam Scheiber's The Escape Artists tells the story of a meeting between Lew and Sen. Jon Kyl and fellow Republican Rep. Eric Cantor in the summer of 2011 to negotiate a deal to lift the debt ceiling. At one point Kyl and Cantor are clearly flustered at the stony resistance they are getting from Lew and Gene Sperling, the director of the National Economic Council. "Let me get this right," Kyl says to Lew and Sperling. "You are saying there are Medicare savings you think would be good policy. But you won't do them unless we agree to raise taxes?" The answer from Sperling and Lew was "yes." The negotiations quickly broke down. There's no doubt that Lew is highly experienced and has shown a high level of loyalty to Obama. As a long time public servant, he knows the ins and outs of the budget better than most people. But even if Lew is respected in Washington, he's not a guy who is likely to be able to diminish the political acrimony. If Obama wanted to appoint a man who could personify his no negotiation pledge, there would be no better pick than Lew.
APTreasury Secretary Tim Geithner is stepping down. Mr. Geithner served as Head of the New York Fed and U.S. Treasury Secretary during one of the most challenging economic periods in United States history: The 2007-2010 financial crisis. During this period, the global stock markets tanked, many major financial institutions went bankrupt (and many others almost followed), the global economy plunged into the worst recession since the Great Depression, and the global financial system almost shut down. The pressure on Mr. Geithner during this period, both as Head of the New York Fed and then as Treasury Secretary, was unfathomable. In both roles, Mr. Geithner made many extremely important and controversial decisions. He made these decisions under extraordinary time pressure and political pressure, while under intense public scrutiny. Some of these decisions were immediately blasted, from both political and economic perspectives, with Mr. Geithner personally being torn to shreds for having made them. Mr. Geithner, the critics roared, was way too soft on Wall Street, especially considering that Wall Street's reckless lending had helped to bring about the crisis. And in the years since the crisis, as the economy has gradually nursed itself back to a reasonable state of health, many of Mr. Geithner's decisions have continued to be second-guessed ‚Äî including, quite vocally, by me. But here's the big picture: The big picture is that the United States financial system and economy have recovered from near-disaster in 2008-2009. And the hyperinflation and dollar-crash and return to the stone age that many doomsayers predicted would follow have not come to pass. Although it is hard to prove a "what if" scenario ‚Äî and although Mr. Geithner certainly made mistakes ‚Äî it seems safe to say that, broadly, Mr. Geithner's policies and decisions worked. We got through the crisis. And in helping us get through the crisis, Mr. Geithner withstood an astounding amount of criticism, second-guessing, outrage, and ridicule. (In a fit of pique about yet another bank bailout, for example, I once deemed Mr. Geithner "God's Gift To Wall Street." I also called for him to resign.) The definition of strong leadership is not about making decisions that are popular. Making popular decisions is easy ‚Äî you don't need to be a leader to do that. The definition of strong leadership is to make decisions that are unpopular, but are nevertheless sound. In his roles as Head of the New York Fed and U.S. Treasury, Mr. Geithner made a lot of decisions that were immensely unpopular at the time. The course of history, however, has revealed that many of these decisions were sound. Tim Geithner deserves a huge amount of credit for that.¬† So, well done, Tim Geithner!¬† You helped our country get through the storm.¬† And we all owe you our gratitude for that.
APPresident Barack Obama nominated current White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew to be the next Secretary of the Treasury this afternoon at the White House. Lew will replace current Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner. "This is bittersweet," Obama said, giving Lew high praise.  "Jack has been my Chief of Staff for the last year.†I trust his judgment, value his friendship, know few people of greater integrity.†My loss will be the nation's gain." He added: "Jack knows that every number on a page, every dollar we budget, decision we make, has to be an expression of our values." Obama also commended the outgoing Geithner and his four years of work. "When the history books are written, Tim Geithner is going to go down as one of our finest secretaries of the Treasury," Obama said. The ceremony was a lighthearted one, and included jokes from both Obama and Lew himself about Lew's much talked-about loopy signature. Lew made the first crack, telling Geithner "we both share a common challenge with penmanship." Obama came back to the podium after Lew was done speaking and joked that he considered rescinding Lew's nomination when he became aware of Lew's signature yesterday. "Jack assures me he will work to make at least one letter legible so as not to debase our currency," Obama said. For reference, here's Lew's signature:  Check out 10 things you need to know about Jack Lew &gt;
By:† Peter Schiff Thursday, January 10, 2013 Economists who hold the popular view that expanding the money supply will provide the best medicine for our ailing economy dismiss the inflationary concerns of monetary hawks, like me, by pointing to the supposedly low inflation that has occurred during the current period of rampant Fed activism. In a recent blog post aimed specifically at me, Paul Krugman noted that the sub 2.5% increases in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) over the past few years are all that is needed to prove me wrong. In fact, Krugman and others have even suggested that the CPI itself†overstates†inflation and that the Fed would be better able to help the economy if less strict methodologies were used.† However, there is plenty of evidence to suggest that the CPI is essentially meaningless as it woefully under reports rising prices.† Magazines and newspapers provide a good case in point. The truth has not been exposed through the economic†reporting that these outlets provide, but in the prices that are permanently fixed to their covers. For instance, from 1999 to 2002 the Bureau of Labor Statistic's (BLS) "Newspaper and Magazine Index" (a component of the CPI) increased by 37.1%. But a perusal of the cover prices of the 10 most popular newspapers and magazines (WSJ, Washington Post, Time, Sports Illustrated, U.S. News &amp; World Report, Newsweek, People, NY Times, USA Today, and the LA Times) over the same time frame showed an†average†cover price increase of 131.5% (3.5 times faster than the BLS' stats). This is not even in the same ballpark. Some defenders of the BLS may conclude that prices were held down by the availability of free online news content or the convenience of digital delivery. But that is beside the point. Prior to the digital age, the BLS could have claimed that newspaper costs were held down by public libraries that provided free access. It's also true that online publications deliver less value on some fronts. Not only do many people enjoy the tactile process of reading physical newspapers or magazines, but they offer the secondary value in helping to kindle fires, housebreak puppies, pack dishes, and line birdcages. † Another stunning example is found in health insurance costs, which is a major line item for most families. According to the BLS we can all breathe easy on that front because their "Health Insurance Index" increased a mere 4.3% (total) in the four years between 2008 and 2012. Interestingly, over the same time, the Kaiser Survey of Employer Sponsored Health Insurance showed that the cost of family health insurance rose 24.2% (5.5 times faster). But even if the BLS had reported higher costs, it wouldn't have made much of a difference in the CPI itself. Believe it or not, health insurance costs are assigned a weighting of less than one percent of the overall CPI. In contrast, the Kaiser Survey revealed that in 2012 the average total cost for family health insurance coverage was $15,745, or almost one third of the median family income. If the BLS could be so blatantly wrong in reporting the prices of newspapers and health insurance, should we believe that they are more accurate on all other sectors? If the inaccuracy of these two components were consistent with the rest of the CPI's components, inflation could now be reported in double-digits! Even more egregious than the manner in which prices are currently reported is the way that CPI methods have been changed over the years to insure that most increases are factored out. Since the 1970's, the CPI formula has changed so thoroughly that it bears scant resemblance to the one used during the "malaise days" of the Carter years. Main stream economists dismiss criticism of the changes as tin hat conspiracy theories. But given the huge stakes involved, it's hard to believe that institutional bias plays no role. Government statisticians are responsible for coming up with the formulas, and their bosses catch huge breaks if the inflation numbers come in low. Human behavior is always influenced by such incentives. The newer CPI methodologies are designed to report not just on price movements, but on spending patterns, consumer choices, substitution bias, and product changes. In other words, the metrics have been altered to track not so much the cost of things, but the cost of living (or more accurately, the cost of surviving). But if you simply focus on price, especially on those staple commodity goods and services that haven't radically changed in quality over the years, the under reporting of inflation becomes more apparent. As reported in our†Global Investor Newsletter, we selected BLS price changes for twenty everyday goods and services over two separate ten-year periods, and then compared those changes to the reported changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) over the same period. (The twenty items we selected are: eggs, new cars, milk, gasoline, bread, rent of primary residence, coffee, dental services, potatoes, electricity, sugar, airline tickets, butter, store bought beer, apples, public transportation, cereal, tires, beef, and prescription drugs.) We know that people do not spend equal amounts on the above items, and we know their share of income devoted to them has changed over the decades. But as we are only interested in how these prices have changed relative to the CPI, those issues don't really matter. We chose to look at the period between 1970 and 1980 and then again between 2002 and 2012, because these time frames both had big deficits and loose monetary policy, and they straddle the time in which the most significant changes to the CPI methodology took effect. And while the CPI rose much faster in the 1970's, the degree to which the prices of our 20 items outpaced the CPI was much higher more recently. Between 1970 and 1980 the officially reported CPI rose a whopping 112%, and prices of our basket of goods and services rose by 117%, just 5% faster. In contrast between 2002 and 2012 the CPI rose just 27.5%, but our basket increased by 44.3%, a rate that was 61% faster. And remember, this is using the BLS' own price data, which we have already shown can grossly under-estimate the true rate of increase. The difference can be explained by how CPI is weighted and mixed. The formula used in the 1970's effectively captured the price movements of our twenty everyday products. But in the last ten years it has been quite a different story. If these price changes in our experiments had been fully captured, CPI could currently be high enough to severely restrict Fed action to stimulate the economy. Instead, the Fed is operating as if inflation is extremely low. As a result, they are making a huge policy mistake that will come back to haunt us. During the last decade the Fed spent many years denying the existence of a housing bubble, even as a mountain of evidence piled up to the contrary. That error caused the Fed to hold interest rates too low for too long, blowing more air into the bubble and imposing enormous negative consequences on the economy. The Fed, now similarly blind to the inflation threat, is repeating its mistake, only this time the negative consequences will be even more dire. Apart from the statistical problems that hide inflation, there are also macroeconomic factors that have helped keep prices down despite the quantitative easing. Massive U.S. trade deficits and foreign central bank dollar accumulation mean that much of the printed money winds up in foreign bank vaults, not U.S. shopping centers. As foreign consumer goods flow in, and dollars flow out, a lid is kept on domestic prices. In effect, our inflation is exported as foreign central banks monetize our deficits and recycle their surpluses into U.S. Treasuries. The demand has pushed down bond yields which has allowed the U.S. government to borrow inexpensively.†Of course, when the flows reverse, bond prices will fall, yields will climb, and a tidal wave of dollars will wash up on American shores, drowning consumers in a sea of inflation. †† Unlike Krugman and the Keynesians, I would argue that it is impossible to create something from nothing. I believe that printing a dollar diminishes the value of all existing dollars by an aggregate amount equal to the purchasing power of the new dollar. The other side takes the position that the new money creates tangible economic growth and† that real economic value can therefore be created by putting zeroes onto a piece of paper. I think that those making such absurd claims should bear the burden of proof.†For more on the interesting topic of hidden inflation, see my†video†that I just posted.† This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital ª
Tim Geithner is in his final days as Treasury Secretary, as Obama officially nominated Jack lew to take over his role. Geithner will be the subject of LOTS of discussions in the coming days, months, and years, as he presided over one of America's most turbulent economic times. There will be a lot of second-guessing, of course, but for our money Tim Geithner had an amazing run, and it can be shown in one chart, which shows the pace of jobs recoveries of various financial crisis throughout the globe and history. The chart comes from Oregon economist Josh Lehner, and as you can see, the US has had a remarkable jobs comeback compared to almost every other financial crisis. Despite the weak economy, the red line (the US jobs recovery) has gone faster than just about any other country's comeback Josh Lehner Why does Geithner get credit for this? Because for a long time, and despite its unpopularity, Geithner was a full-throated defender of full blank-check bailouts for the banks. This is critical, because the other country that did blank check bailouts was Japan (which also had a great jobs recovery) and the country that didn't do full bailouts was Sweden, which had a horrendous jobs recovery. Blank check bailouts accomplished two things. One, it prevented the crisis from getting much worse. Two, it prevented long legal battles (which would still be ongoing today) had we gone down the road of haircutting to creditors. The legal fallout would have been extraordinarily brutal if the government had decided whom to haircut and whom to keep whole. In future financial crises, The Geithner Model will be the model: Save the banks completely, and pump a lot of money into the economy via spending and easy money.

APCharles Evans, right, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.As Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke does not have absolute power over the direction of U.S. monetary policy.† Rather, he must develop a consensus from amongst the differing viewpoints of the 12 members of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). And with each passing year, the FOMC gets an injection of fresh blood. The Federal Reserve district presidents for Richmond, Atlanta, Cleveland, and San Francisco are no longer voting members of the FOMC. They've been replaced by the presidents of the St. Louis, Kansas City, Boston, and Chicago. The Financialist, a digital magazine sponsored by Credit Suisse, has a great set of profiles on each of the voting members. "Our review suggests the FOMC will remain decidedly dovish in 2013," they conclude. NOTE: Thanks to The Financialist for letting us feature their profiles.
thor.marvel.comAround fifty years ago, the U.S. chose to develop uranium-based nuclear energy instead of thorium-based energy. Both energy sources provided a ton of power ‚Äî¬†though theoretically thorium could provide a lot more. What made the difference, however, were the byproducts.¬†Uranium byproducts could be used for nuclear bombs, and that's all Richard Nixon needed to know. Doug L. Hoffman, author of¬†The Resilient Earth, writes: In the US, the military was not interested in ‚Äòsafe‚Äô atomic reactors, they wanted the enriched uranium and plutonium produced by uranium fueled reactors for use in weapons. The world‚Äôs largest consumer of civilian nuclear power turned its back on thorium because¬†it did not produce dangerous enough waste products. Many argue this was a terrible choice. Not only is thorium thought to be¬†3-4 times more abundant than uranium, cleaner, safer, and vastly more powerful, but it also has byproducts that ‚Äî rather than killing people ‚Äî could save lives. Kirk Sorensen, CEO of Flibe Energy, believes the medical isotopes produced from liquid fluoride thorium reactors (LFTRs) will actually be more valuable than the electricity generated. Furthermore, he says this revenue stream will be sufficient to fund the proliferation of thorium reactors for commercial purposes ‚Äì that the electricity generated will be, in essence, a secondary product. The isotopes produced from LFTRs include Bismuth-213 and Molybdenum-99, which are used to fight cancer. Currently, over 90% of these isotopes are imported from Canada. Increasing the domestic supply of these isotopes will also help curb their rising cost. As well, Forbes reports that monazite sands, the principal source of thorium, often contain significant amounts of rare earth elements. China supplies over 95% of the world‚Äôs rare earth elements, which have important commercial and military applications in advanced electronics and are in everything from smartphones to drones. Jim Kennedy, who co-organized the 2012 Thorium Energy Alliance Conference, notes current U.S. government policy towards thorium discourages the domestic production of rare earths elements. Monazite mining companies have to store the radioactive thorium (which they have no use for) they encounter during their quests for rare earth elements. Kennedy has proposed the creation of a ‚ÄúThorium Storage and Industrial Products Corporation‚Äù which would store the thorium obtained from monazite mines and find end-users for the product, specifically, as an energy source. This ‚ÄúThorium Bank‚Äù would require Congressional approval (but not funding!), and would serve as a centralized headquarters for the mass proliferation of thorium energy in the United States. For now the full benefits of thorium energy are unproven, though countries like China, India and Norway are investing heavily in research and development. Thorium also carries its own risk of proliferation as a weapon of mass destruction, according to a study from the University of Cambridge. The report indicated that thorium could be converted to weapons-grade U-233 "using well-known chemical processes that use standard laboratory equipment and are not subject to IAEA safeguards." The researchers note that this would be extremely hard to trace¬†‚Äî which makes the development of such a weapons system a potential goal for terrorist organizations, or more likely, an unruly nation-state.
Today Herbalife put on a multi-hour investor presentation in response to hedge fund manager Bill Ackman's mammoth short thesis he gave last month.¬† Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, was not impressed with their takedown of his case he made. Here's the full release from Pershing: William A. Ackman, CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management said, ‚ÄúIn advance of today‚Äôs analyst day, Herbalife promised to provide a detailed refutation of each of the facts that we enumerated in our December 20th presentation.¬† Instead, the company distorted, mischaracterized, and outright ignored large portions of our presentation.¬† For example, Herbalife did not respond to our identification of overstatements and inaccuracies in the company‚Äôs earnings statement for distributors, which among other deceptions, excludes the 93% of distributors that have zero gross earnings. In today‚Äôs presentation, Herbalife offered the opportunity for ‚Äòanyone‚Äô to ask questions of Herbalife so its business can be better understood. Pershing Square will be publicly releasing a detailed series of questions that will assist investors, regulators, distributors, and other interested parties in understanding the truth about Herbalife.¬†¬† Thereafter, we will respond with particularity to every issue raised today by Herbalife. Over the last three weeks, we have been contacted by numerous interested parties who have provided additional insight into Herbalife‚Äôs business practices. We will be addressing these new issues in our updated presentation. Please go to www.factsaboutherbalife.com ¬†to view our presentation and learn more about the company.‚Äù Pershing Square is shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife and believes the multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products is a pyramid scheme. ¬†Ackman has a price target of zero.¬†
Last year was a relatively weak year for gold mining stocks. In a new presentation, US Funds' Frank Holmes notes that federal election years tend to be bad ones for the miners as measured by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver Index (XAU). He also notes that post-election years tend to be great. It's unclear if there's any reasonable explanation for this. But one thing's for sure: "Past performance does not guarantee future results." From Holmes' presentation: US Funds
APVice President Joe Biden said today that he is prepared to give recommendations to President Barack Obama by next Tuesday on what should be done to curb the nation's gun violence. "I have committed to him that I will have the recommendations to him by Tuesday," Biden said at a meeting with different sporting groups, according to a pool report released from the meeting. "I have a real very tight window to do this," he added. "The public wants us to act." Biden's meeting with the sporting groups came as reports emerged of another school shooting at a California high school. Obama commissioned the White House task force on gun violence after the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. According to the pool report, Biden said that there were some recommendations that had come up repeatedly in his meetings with different groups ‚Äî closing the so-called "gun show loophole" and instituting universal background checks. He also mentioned a possible limit on high-capacity magazines, as well as improving the "ability of any federal agency to do research on gun violence." Biden is also scheduled to meet with various gun-owners groups ‚Äî including the National Rifle Association ‚Äî as well as entertainment-industry executives on Thursday. On Wednesday, Biden caused a stir when he said the White House had determined¬†it could "take executive action" on measures to curb gun violence. ¬†
The euro is surging against the U.S. dollar after ECB President Mario Draghi revealed at the ongoing ECB press conference that the decision to leave interest rates on hold was unanimous. Since Draghi's comments, the euro has soared over 150 pips against the dollar from around 1.3100 to current highs around 1.3260. Right now, the euro is trading at its highest levels of the day. Below is an intraday chart. Thinkorswim Just today alone, the euro has wiped out almost all of its losses since trending downward against the dollar to start the new year: Thinkorswim SEE ALSO: We Could See A Bond Market 'Coup' During Today's Treasury Auction &gt;
Lucas Kawa, Business InsiderThis isn't the first time hedge funder Dan Loeb has taken on hedge funder Bill Ackman. Before Loeb took the other side of Ackman's massive bet against Herbalife, he had a short position against†Ackman's big gamble on JC Penney, according to a new report. From the WSJ: Mr. Loeb had taken a short position in J.C. Penney, JCP 0.00% a retailer that Mr. Ackman has sought to revive under former Apple Inc. AAPL +0.04% executive Ron Johnson, according to people familiar with Mr. Loeb's holdings. Penney's new strategy hasn't paid off so far, with both sales and the share price slumping. Mr. Ackman has told his investors the turnaround will take time. The company has repeatedly said it would take years to turn around the chain. Business Insider contacted Third Point for comment, and was told the the hedge fund does not discuss its short positions. Ever. However, in Loeb's latest investor letter (out yesterday) he wrote that both of his shorts had been losers over Q4 ó and since a JC Penney short would've been profitable over that time, it is likely that Third Point has exited a JCP short. Then of course there's Target, another Ackman investment that didn't perform. The New York Post claims that Loeb is still sore from losses he suffered from investing in Ackman's Target fund back in 2008. It also called the two "frenemies," but that just seems a little extra, doesn't it?
AP/Charles KrupaA chef discards beef scraps at a Massachusetts country club.Up to half of all the food produced each year goes to waste, according to a recent report by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. "It Is estimated that 30ñ50% (or 1.2ñ2 billion tonnes) of all food produced on the planet is lost before reaching a human stomach." It's also important to keep in mind that as all this food gets wasted, all the stuff that went into producing this food is also getting wasted. "This figure does not reflect the fact that large amounts of land, energy, fertilizers and water have also been lost in the production of foodstuffs which simply end up as waste." So why is all this food getting wasted? "In less-developed countries, such as those of sub-Saharan Africa and South-East Asia, wastage tends to occur primarily at the farmer-producer end of the supply chain. Inefficient harvesting, inadequate local transportation and poor infrastructure mean that produce is frequently handled inappropriately and stored under unsuitable farm site conditions. As the development level of a country increases, so the food loss problem generally moves further up the supply chain with deficiencies in regional and national infrastructure having the largest impact. (In developed countries) Major supermarkets, in meeting consumer expectations, will often reject entire crops of perfectly edible fruit and vegetables at the farm because they do not meet exacting marketing standards for their physical characteristics, such as size and appearance. For example, up to 30% of the UKís vegetable crop is never harvested as a result of such practices. Globally, retailers generate 1.6 million tonnes of food waste annually in this way. Of the produce that does appear in the supermarket, commonly used sales promotions frequently encourage customers to purchase excessive quantities which, in the case of perishable foodstuffs, inevitably generates wastage in the home. Overall between 30% and 50% of what has been bought in developed countries is thrown away by the purchaser." Very depressing. Read more at the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
The New York-bound side of the Pulaski Skyway, a bridge that leads to the Holland Tunnel (connecting New Jersey and New York City), will be shut down for in 2014 for extensive repairs, NBC New York reported. Redecking two of its four lanes is expected to cost $1 billion and take two years. A source told NBC the 80-year-old bridge is "massively used, massively worn out," and that the New Jersey-bound side will not be used to accommodate drivers heading into the city. The bridge will be closed after Super Bowl XLVIII in 2014, to be played at New Jersey's MetLife Stadium, home to the New York Giants and Jets. To avoid the closed route, drivers could use local roads to reach the Holland Tunnel, or take the Lincoln Tunnel to midtown Manhattan. Ferries and PATH trains also connect New Jersey and Manhattan. The bridge, which crosses the Passaic and Hackensack Rivers, is named for General Casimir Pulaski, a Polish cavalry officer who fought in the American Revolution. It opened in 1932. According to NBC, the official plan to close the route will be announced today in Newark. The New Jersey Department of Transportation did not immediately reply to a request for comment. New Jersey residents who work in New York City did get a piece of good news yesterday, when some 24-hour PATH train service was restored, more than two months after Hurricane Sandy hit the region.
The ECB unveiled the new†Ä5 note today. From the ECB: The new Ä5 banknote has benefited from advances in banknote technology since the first series was introduced over ten years ago. It includes some new and enhanced security features. The watermark and hologram display a portrait of Europa, a figure from Greek mythology ñ and hence the name of this series of banknotes. An eye-catching ìemerald numberî changes colour from emerald green to deep blue and displays an effect of the light that moves up and down. Short raised lines on the left and right edges of the banknote make it easier to identify the banknote, especially for visually impaired people. FRONT: ECB BACK:   Compare it to the old one: ECB ECB
The U.S. hits the debt ceiling and begins the process of defaulting on its debt on February 15, 2013, a day known as the "X date".† This whole debate over whether or not the debt ceiling debate and subsequent collision should be averted with the use of a workaround requires context to demonstrate how profoundly bad this debate could be without one.† As of today ó Thursday, January 10, 2013 ó we are just over five weeks to Friday, February 15. Speaker of the House John Boehner refuses to negotiate directly with the President, and President Obama has indicated that he doesn't even have the intention to negotiate with the GOP over raising the debt ceiling at all.† So far, markets don't seem worried even slightly. But just for the sake of history, here's a look at how markets behaved before and right after the last crisis. On the following charts, each of the X Dates is zero. That means that zero on the 2011 line is August 2, 2011 and zero on the 2013 line is February 2, 2013. † These charts look at the Dow Jones Industrial Average 41 weekdays before the X Date and 14 weekdays after.† In this chart, we are t-minus 27 weekdays ó that's 36 days when weekends are included ófrom hitting the debt ceiling: Walter Hickey/BI Now, here's another look. The 2011 debate over the debt ceiling slammed markets for weeks after the fact as it called into question the ability of the United States government to pay its bills. Here's what the next several weeks look like if the DJIA does the exact same thing it did last time around. There's no reason to think it will. It's just about putting things in perspective. Walter Hickey Nothing has changed between 2011 and 2013 that bolsters confidence in the ability of the United States Congress to behave differently.† Also recall that 2011 was an arguably "successful" negotiation. As it stands, the leaders of the parties refuse to talk and there does not seem to be a majority in the House of Representatives to get a unilateral raise of the debt ceiling through.† Even more, we're learning more and more about the catastrophe that could happen after an unsuccessful negotiation. Instantly, programs become unfunded and a governmental shutdown begins. Given that it's the full faith and credit of the United States Federal Government in play, there could be an additional round of credit downgrades. That's why some unconventional ideas are gaining credibility and attracting attention. They seek to avoid the no-win scenario, and circumvent a showdown that will only leave the nation and the economy demonstrably weaker by the end of next month.
There is a vehement and polarized debate going on in this country about our budget deficit. One side argues that America's taxes (revenue) are already much too high and that the budget problem is "just a spending problem." The other side, meanwhile, argues that the deficit is the result of a combination of factors, including economic growth being too slow, spending being too high, and taxes being too low. Obviously, this is a philosophical argument more than anything else. The conservative side of this argument believes that the government should not support poorer, older, sick, or out-of-work Americans--and, therefore, that we should cut a huge portion of our government spending. The liberal side, meanwhile, thinks America should continue to support poorer, older, sick, and out-of-work Americans--and, therefore, that we should continue to have the government spend on these programs. Reasonable people can disagree philosophically. And it is certainly worth having an ongoing national conversation about what sort of country we want America to be. But one fact should be kept in mind during this argument. America is NOT a high-tax country. In fact, America is a relatively LOW-tax country, when compared to almost all other developed countries in the world. What those who are saying that America should continue to cut taxes are arguing, therefore, is that America's government should provide far fewer services than the governments of most developed countries do. Don't believe it? Take a look at these charts. They're from an excellent new KPMG report on global tax rates. These charts are based on 2012 taxes, and some U.S. taxes have increased since 2012, but the U.S. will still rank relatively low. Before you look, here are some key points: So here you go.¬† For those who make $100,000 a year, the U.S. is the 55th-ranked country in terms of total taxes (click for larger): KPMG For those who make $300,000 a year, meanwhile, U.S. rates rates are a little more punitive. For these folks, the U.S. is the 53rd highest ranked country: KPMG READ MORE: The Highest Tax Rates In The World ¬†
Ysbrand Cosijn / Shutterstock.comWhile it may be cold, wet, and slushy outside, winter is no excuse to dress poorly. If you arm yourself with the right accessories and clothing, you can take on the elements while still maintaining your style. From touchscreen leather gloves to fitted overcoats, we've found 10 things all guys need to stay warm, dry, and stylish this winter.
Yesterday, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo delivered his State of the State address. In the accompanying "NY Rising" book, he acknowledged the reality of climate change and the need to prepare New York's infrastructure for stronger and more frequent storms. Superstorm Sandy devastated New York City's transportation network: Tunnels for subways and cars flooded, and full service still has not been completely restored. To prevent future, costly flooding (the damage done to a single subway station will cost about $500 million to repair), Cuomo presented several measures.†Here's what he wants New York City's Metropolitan Transit Authority and other State agencies and authorities to do, with federal assistance: To prevent the severe gasoline shortage caused by Sandy, Cuomo's plan proposes requiring "gas stations in strategic locations" to have back-up power capacity, so they can distribute fuel during a power outage. But some argue these plans, while practical and executable, do not go far enough. Second Ave. Sagas, a blog about New York's subway system, criticized Cuomo's "lack of attention" to New York City's transit needs, pointing out the 300 page plan mentions the MTA only once. Transportation Nation notes Cuomo's plan does not include the expansion of New York's bus rapid transit system, called for in a draft report by the NYS 2100 Commission, created by Cuomo to improve New York's emergency preparedness. The argument for more buses is based on the idea that routes are flexible and do not rely on tunnels that can flood, so service can be restored quickly after a storm. Now see why NYC can't save people from being hit by subways &gt;
flickr / son_gismoHeads up ñ the U.S. Treasury is auctioning off $13 billion in 30-year bonds this afternoon, and it could get interesting. This week, other government auctions for shorter-dated Treasuries finished with a very small "tail." (The "tail" is the difference between the highest yield on the Treasuries during the auction and the yield when the auction first gets started ñ the "when-issued" level. Thus, the appearance of a "tail" typically represents weak demand). There was also a high level of "direct" bidders at those auctions ñ investors bypassing Wall Street dealers and buying directly from the Treasury. Nomura analysts suggest this is part of a larger shift in the bond market taking place (via Reuters): The Treasury sold $32 billion of three-year notes on Tuesday at a high yield of 0.385 percent, just about where the market had expected. The high direct takedown in this and the previous three-year†auction could signal "a shift in investor bidding patterns at†auctions, where buyers bypass dealers and go straight to the†Treasury, while still able to clear the auction near the WI†(when issued) levels," wrote Nomura analysts after the sale. Yesterday's auction of 10-year Treasury bonds was weak and resulted in another tail. The patterns we're seeing in these auctions this week suggest to Russ Certo, Head of Rates at Brean Capital, that we could be setting up for something of a "coup" at today's Treasury auction of 30-year bonds ñ and the big banks are the ones being unseated. Certo wrote in an email this morning: "The bond market is lower overnight as the weak ten-year auction yesterday resonates in traders' minds, 'if we couldnít take 10yrs down without a tail, how can we take 30yrs down?'" His answer is similar to Nomura's: the direct bidders bypassing Wall Street at Treasury auctions. Here is more from Certo's email: I also, conversely, think that there has been a tendency for some real money accounts to either bypass the Street in the direct bidding process or at 11th hour with bids that can change the dynamic of the auction process, sometimes even effecting an auction stop through 1pm levels ñ surprising the Street, set up short, which then scrambles to get paper back at HIGHER PRICES. The worse a 10-year auction, or 3yr and 10yr process, the more likely negative sentiment reigns and the third and last leg of auction supply is vulnerable to a coup. I think this is a reasonable outcome for today and just simply feel there is asymmetry in outcome. 30-year Treasuries hit their lows of the day around 10 AM this morning after the overnight selloff referenced above, and have since started to reverse. We'll have to wait a few more hours to see how the auction turns out.
LexnGer via flickr Minting a trillion dollar platinum coin to work around the debt ceiling is... ... legal ... economically sound ... much better than a debt ceiling catastrophe But the complaint from so many people is: It's just not serious! It's the work of impish trolls! That people think it's silly has prevented many people from endorsing it. But it seems that they recognize that a Plan B needs to be developed, and now they've glommed onto one: Printing IOUs to pay the bills. The new campaign (which might be characterized as #PrintTheIOU) is the brainchild of Edward Kleinbard, who made his case in a NYT op-ed that came out last night. He wrote: However, there is a plausible course of action, one that the president should publicly adopt in the coming weeks as his contingency plan should debt-ceiling negotiations falter. He should threaten to issue scrip ‚Äî ‚Äúregistered warrants‚Äù ‚Äî to existing claims holders (other than those who own actual government debt) in lieu of money. Recipients of these I.O.U.‚Äôs could include federal employees, defense contractors, Medicare service providers, Social Security recipients and others. The scrip would not violate the debt ceiling because it wouldn‚Äôt constitute a new borrowing of money backed by the credit of the United States. It would merely be a formal acknowledgment of a pre-existing monetary claim against the United States that the Treasury was not currently able to pay. The president could therefore establish a scrip program by executive order without piling a constitutional crisis on top of a fiscal one. He's followed that up with a conference call this morning, in which he called the Platinum Coin an "embarrassment." So here we are. The Serious People have found their Serious Alternative to the platinum coin. The influential magazine National Journal -- which likened the Platinum Coin option to FDR illegitimately packing the Supreme Court -- has a writeup of the IOU idea, which specifically frames it as a non-loopy alternative to the coin. The¬†$1 trillion platinum coin seems too wacky; the 14th amendment too risky. But could IOU's be the solution to an impasse on raising the nation's borrowing limit?Yes, and President Obama should publicly adopt the idea, Edward Kleinbard, a University of Southern California law professor and former chief of staff to Congress‚Äôs Joint Committee on Taxation, argues in a¬†Thursday¬†New York Times¬†op-ed. If lawmakers can‚Äôt reach an agreement before the nation hits its debt ceiling--which could happen as soon as next month--then Obama should have a backup plan of issuing IOU's in place, Kleinbard argues. Other folks who were coin skeptics are also on board. Exited to start pushing my #printthescrip hash tag but afraid it might be too workable to attract attention The debate over the IOU or "Scrip" idea will continue, but here are the two big takeaways. -- This is Plan B proposal that respectable people are comfortable with. -- We've reached a new stage, where a lot of the discussion is not about if the debt ceiling will be raised, but how Obama will circumvent it if/when its not raised. Arguably that itself represents a loss of GOP leverage. Find out everything you need to know about the trillion dollar coin below: SEE ALSO: Why not lifting the debt ceiling would be a disaster &gt;
Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, believes the multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products is a pyramid scheme. His hedge fund is shorting more than 20 million shares and has a price target of zero.† Following Ackman's 342-slide presentation, Herbalife came out and said that he used outdated and inaccurate information.† Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short, shares are off 6%. †They had tumbled more than 38% at one point.† Today, Herbalife presented its rebuttal to Ackman's claims. † We've included highlights below. He says they will talk about some Herbalife vocabulary that has caused some confusion. &nbsp; The first one he says is 'HLF is Not a Product Company.' He says that couldn't be further from the truth. &nbsp;He says they intentionally used misinformation. &nbsp; He says HLF invests a significant amount in product development.&nbsp; The COO is showing pictures of the distribution centers around the world.&nbsp;  HLF says price per unit is more accurate. The COO says they are competitively priced.  He says they don't use "hired guns" to review products, but outside consultants.&nbsp; He says they make significant investments for product development.&nbsp; He says they have numerous global distribution facilities.&nbsp; They're competitively priced. HLF president says they have a "robust and thriving consumer base."&nbsp;  SEE:&nbsp;http://www.businessinsider.com/pershing-square-photos-of-herbalife-nutrition-clubs-2012-12 "This isn't a country club in Westchester," he says adding "This is America" and we "shouldn't speak down about it."&nbsp; Once he learned they were from Pershing he said they could call him with questions. He added that they hired an ad agency.&nbsp; In her paper, &nbsp;she wrote that HLF fails to meet the criteria for a pyramid scheme. She says &nbsp;there's no evidence of anything that this company is not a legit MLM. &nbsp;Not an opinion, but a fact, she says. An article in the WSJ yesterday said the SEC has opened a probe into Herbalife, the paper said citing a person familiar. He pointed out that Girl Scouts use direct selling for cookies and no one attacks them.
Morgan StanleyThe internet and retail analysts at Morgan Stanley recently published a massive report on how the retail industry was changing. For the most part, the evolution involves a shift from brick-and-mortar retail to e-commerce, which they estimate will grow to $1 trillion by 2016. Some products are underpenetrated by e-commerce.† And some of that may be due to the fact that consumers just don't want certain items delivered. To the right is a chart of the online penetration rates for various goods. †
USCEdward Kleinbard, the former†Chief of Staff of the U.S. Congressís Joint Committee on Taxation, said today that the option of minting a trillion-dollar coin to work around the debt ceiling was "far-fetched and an embarrassment to the country as a first-world power." Instead, he advocated a different work-around strategy:†give out "IOUs" to existing claims holders like†federal employees, defense contractors, Medicare service providers, and Social Security recipients. It's a strategy that has precedent from California's budget crisis in 2009. Kleinbard's problem with the platinum-coin option is its legality. Both Republican and Democratic members of Congress have argued that it would be a legal interpretation of a 1997 law that says the Treasury can "mint and issue platinum bullion coins and proof platinum coins in accordance with such specifications, designs, varieties, quantities, denominations, and inscriptions as the secretary, in the secretaryís discretion, may prescribe from time to time." But that law was intended for commemorative coins. Kleinbard said that a strict, "hyper-literal interpretation" would not hold up in court.† "It's taking a statute ... that has one†very small, narrow purpose for which everybody agrees ó minting commemorate coins ó and reading it in a hyper-literal way," Kleinbard said this morning on a conference call.† Kleinbard said that kind of interpretation ignores the context and is not consistent with the law's original purpose or intent ó something the court would look to in determining its legality. "We're all reading it out of context," he said. Kleinbard outlined a different proposal in which President Barack Obama could avert the ceiling today in The New York Times ó issuing scrip, "registered warrants" or "IOUs" to exi siting claim holders.
Via... Steven Dennis.
The 10 stocks that drove 93% of the entire S&amp;P 500's earnings growth in 2012 will only account for 33% of earnings growth in 2013, according to a report from Morgan Stanley. Check it out: Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley
Shares of Herbalife are up more than 3 percent as executives from the multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products rebut hedge fund manager Bill Ackman's short thesis.¬† The stock has been trading in a range of $39.18 to $40.99. Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, is shorting 20 million shares of Herbalife. ¬†He believes the company is a pyramid scheme and has a price target of zero.¬† Since confirming his short, the stock is off 6%. ¬†It had been off more than 38%. Herbalife is refuting his claims right now. Check out the chart:¬† ¬†Yahoo Finance SEE: Herbalife Is Presenting Its Huge Takedown Of Ackman's Short Case &gt;
I tend to like nice guys. Don't we all? One of my favorite investors is John Templeton. Years after his death, he's still acknowledged as an exemplary person and great investor. But you don't have to be adorable to be a good investor. Dan Loeb, a sometimes off-colorful hedge fund manager, wrote a classic investment letter to investors in his Third Point hedge fund summarizing his results in the fourth quarter of 2012. It's available on Zero Hedge along with the news that he's taken a long position in Herbalife (more on that later).High Potential of Gain Managing money is a tough business. First you have to have the guts to exploit opportunities when everyone else is screaming in fear and running in the other direction. Loeb did that with investments in Greek Government Bonds, Yahoo! Inc, Murphy Oil Corp, Delphi Corp and American International Group Inc. That's very difficult in itself, and that's not even the toughest part. Control Your Losses The most successful investors in the world have trouble controlling losses. One investor who articulated that well was John Templeton. Many people don't know that he was not only a brilliant investor, he was a talented short seller. He shorted tech company IPOs before the lock-up period expired allowing employees to sell shares. If the stock did not go down as he expected and popped up instead, he would cut his losses. He didn't try to explain why it happened; it just did, and he followed pre-set rules he created for himself, because in those situations, the most important thing to remember is to not box yourself in with an oversized position, and above all, control your losses. Few managers discuss controlling losses as Dan Loeb did it in his letter. His top fiver losers were Apple, Inc., Gold, Short A, Short B, and Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. Loeb notes: A disciplined approach to avoiding major losses resulted in only four positions that detracted more than 25 basis points from overall performance. In the fourth quarter of 2012, his fund was up 9.2%, and for the entire year, it was up 21.2%. He has a good track record in prior years, too. That doesn't mean that it will continue, but his approach seems to keep the probabilities in his favor by finding opportunities that limit his downside while having a high probability of upside. Important in this formula for success is that he's diversified the portfolio and exercises discipline in controlling his losses.Herbalife On December 23, I wrote that I agree with Bill Ackman, head of hedge fund Pershing Square, that Herbalife is ripe for investigation. I believe that not because of his presentation, which made some excellent points, but because of the lack of scientific evidence that Herbalife's products have any advantage over generic products and a thorough reading of a Belgian court decision that discusses its evidence that suggests Herbalife is a pyramid scheme. Herbalife is appealing that decision.  Mr. Ackman has publicly stated he believes Herbalife is a pyramid scheme that bleeds a demographic dry and then moves on to either a new country or a new demographic within the same country. Herbalife's demographic of choice in the United States at the moment seems to be the Hispanic community. Apparent earnings growth is at the expense of duped low income people that lose their "investment" when they are unable to recruit additional duped distributors as the base of the pyramid quickly fills up. Bill Ackman believes the company's share price has significant downside, perhaps even zero, but his disclaimers also note that he may cover his short at any time, which would eliminate his bet altogether. Mr. Loeb and his advisors disagree with this assessment and point to the cash flows and multi-year earnings growth generated by Herbalife and its apparent low valuation to historic P/E ratios, among other things. He notes that management historically returned net income to shareholders in the form of dividends and share buy-backs.  Only one of these gentlemen will win the argument, but which of them is winning on the Herbalife bet? At the moment, both Bill Ackman and Dan Loeb appear to be winning. Ackman has a huge short position on Herbalife, around 20 million shares, but it appears he initiate this short when Herbalife was more than ten points higher than it is today, which means that on paper, he's made money on this trade. Dan Loeb has taken a long position in 8.6% of Herbalife, and he thinks the company is worth $55-$68 giving him 40-70% upside. It appears that Loeb bought the stock at a much lower price after Ackman's challenge to Herbalife, and the price has popped up since then. Loeb's investment seems sized better relative to his $10.2 billion portfolio. Both men can end up being "right" on their bet by consolidating gains or controlling losses (erosion of gains) as the case may be. Herbalife: What Percent are Retail Customers that Haven't Signed Distributor Agreements? Herbalife has an Analyst Day meeting today, and financial journalists will be watching to see how CEO Michael Johnson justifies his claim that 90% of Herbalife's customers are outside of the distribution network. On January 4 CNBC reported that Kate Kelly got Herbalife's CEO on the record: Kate: Can you give us a percentage figure ... Mr. Johnson as to what percentage of your sales are outside of that distribution network? Johnson: 90 percent? Kate: So the vast majority? Johnson: Absolutely. It seems to me that Mr. Johnson will have to produce credible evidence to support this assertion if he is to be believed.See also: "OMG! Dan Loeb Said What?" by Matthew Goldstein - Reuters, March 11, 2011, and "Bill Ackman is Right About Herbalife: It's Ripe for Investigation," Huffington Post, December 23, 2012. Read more posts on Tavakoli Structured Finance ¬ª
Just before Christmas I appeared on another edition of Sinica Podcast, this one focused on the looming clash between the U.S. and China over accounting standards for US-listed Chinese companies.† My fellow guest was Professor Paul Gillis from Peking University, whose blog I highly recommend for anyone following this subject.†† You can listen to the podcast discussion here. On New Yearís Day, I took part in a special 2-hour ìyear in reviewî episode of the Today Show on China Radio International, where we covered everything from Syriaís civil war to the Greek debt crisis to the London Olympics.† My suggestion for the ìtop storyî of the year: Chinaís netizens, and how theyíre changing the terms of Chinaís social and political climate.† You can listen to the program here. On New Yearís Eve, the BBC ran a story on the outlook for Chinaís economy in 2013, which you can read here.† The conventional view is that China is headed for a strong rebound, but I questioned that conclusion: Many analysts have warned that the model is unsustainable and have called upon Beijing to boost its domestic consumption and rebalance its economy... Those fears have been fanned further after Beijing approved infrastructure projects worth more than $150bn (£94bn) as its growth pace fell to a three-year low in the July to September quarter. ìIn recent months, Chinaís economy has seen a ëreboundí engineered by looser lending and a renewed surge in investment,î says Mr Chovanec. ìMarkets have cheered, but others worry that Chinaís new leaders may be shying away from the tough choices that must be made to get Chinaís economy back on track.î As I tweeted the other day (@prchovanec): ìMarkets should be rooting for China to embrace real economic adjustment, not to deliver yesterdayís growth targets with yesterdayís growth engine.î I reiterated my concerns about Chinaís ìreboundî in a Bloomberg article published this weekend: ìLots of projects have been approved to stimulate this economy,î said Patrick Chovanec of Beijingís Tsinghua University. ìThe banks are extremely reluctant to lend to them, and that says a lot about what they really know about credit risk in this country.î (What I went on to tell the reporter is that the funding, instead, is coming from the banks selling trust and private wealth management products. The banks wonít touch the credit risk themselves, but theyíre happy to take a fee for dumping it onto their clients, while promising even higher returns.† Sounds like subprime mortgage origination all over again). But I was particularly gratified to see my friend David Loevinger, the former director of the Strategic &amp; Economic Dialogue (S&amp;ED) at US Treasury, now a private sector analyst, make much the same point about Chinaís latest ìreboundî: ìIf China tries to sustain growth by adding debt and investing it inefficiently it will be like cotton candy: a short-term high with no lasting value,î said Loevinger, now an Asia analyst in Los Angeles at TCW Group Inc. ìThe U.S. got into trouble because institutions like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were too big to fail. Ö Chinaís financial system is full of Freddies and Fannies.î Tomorrow morning Iíll be back on China Radio International, this time talking about the new ìspecial zonesî China is in the process of setting up to experiment with financial reform, in Wenzhou, the Pearl River Delta, and now Quanzhou.† Iíll post that later tomorrow when the audio is available.  Read more posts on An American Perspective From China ª
Like everyone else in the world, Dave DeWalt was closely following the weird story of software pioneer John McAfee as it unfolded last month. But for DeWalt, the sordid tale hit close to homeóbecause he used to run the business McAfee built. McAfee fled the Central American country of Belize when police sought to question him about the murder of his neighbor. His escape involved sex, drugs, the faking of his own capture, and McAfee's eventual deportation to the U.S. DeWalt was the former CEO of McAfee, which he rebuilt after a stock-options scandal and sold for $7.8 billion to Intel in 2010. DeWalt is now CEO of FireEye, an up-and-coming security startup. He talked with Business Insider about his reaction to John McAfee's misadventures and told us: I was a little embarrassed for the company as well as disappointed in him. He was a great inventor and in a way I looked up to himónot necessarily what he was doing, but he built a $20 billion industry. The man who invented antivirus was John McAfee. It wasn't Peter Norton with Norton Utilities. "o when you see something later that undermines the character of an innovator and an entrepreneur like that, I'm a little disappointed and embarrassed by it. DeWalt said he was particularly disappointed "to watch someone who had that much opportunity and impact in the world wind up the way it ended up. There are a lot of chapters not written yet, but they're not heading in the right direction." DeWalt points out that McAfee has had nothing to do with his eponymous company for 20 yearsóyet McAfee's adventures wound up being a "crisis" for the brand because the regular Joe hearing the tale didn't always understand that.
FactsAboutHerbalife.comDuring today's investor presentation, Herbalife's president Des Walsh said the 'most offensive thing' from Bill Ackman's short thesis was when he showed photos of their "Nutrition Clubs."  Walsh says the clubs provide value to these communities, many of which are lower income and have a need for education about nutrition. "This isn't a country club in Westchester or Connecticut," he said, adding "This is America" and we "shouldn't speak down about it."¬† Click here to see the photos &gt; Ackman, who has an "enormous" short position, believes Herbalife is a pyramid scheme. ¬†He also has a price target of $0 and believes the company is going to fail.¬† During a special Sohn Conference presentation last month, Ackman talked about how Herbalife portrays its "Nutrition Clubs" as "vibrant retail channels."¬† To demonstrate this point, he put up a slide using a clip from Herbalife's Today Magazine showing a crowd of happy people drinking smoothies in a sunny and airy space. ¬† Ackman also quoted the CFO from a conference call two months ago saying¬†investors are encouraged to visit the clubs.¬† So the Pershing Square team decided to check out some clubs in Queens, New York and Omaha, Nebraska between March and September 2012. They took some photos and we've included their findings in the slides that follow. ¬†Basically, Pershing Square's findings show that these clubs don't look like the ones that were advertised in the magazine from Herbalife. ¬†
WealthTrack via YouTubeUnlike most bears, Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg doesn't expect a sharp rise in interest rates any time soon. In fact, this call even won him a† bottle of whiskey from Marc Faber, Recently, rates have been on the rise and Treasury prices have been falling. But Rosenberg isn't pulling the plug on his call. Rather, he thinks this might be a buying opportunity. From his recent Breakfast With Dave note: A WORD ON THE BOND MARKETThe Treasury market has sold off recently, and the 10-year note yield has already moved up nearly 50 basis points from its nearby multi-decade low (jumping more than 20 bps in less than two weeks). It was overbought then.† It is oversold now... but let's not pretend we haven't seen these hiccups before.† We have had no fewer than eight such episodes of 50+ basis points spasms since yields peaked in the summer of 2007. Each one did not last long and presented a gift of a buying opportunity for patient investors who have an ability to see the forest past the trees.† Typically, these hiccups last 49 trading days and the yield rises an average of 88 bps, with about three quarters of the prior rally being reversed. Even though this recent setback of Treasuries has exceeded the historical norm in duration and as such a near-term bounce is likely in the offing, recent history suggests it is not impossible to see a move to a 2-2.3% band during this time. But is this nothing more than a blip in what is still a secular bull market in bonds? Recent history would say yes. Gluskin Sheff
Images_of_money on FlickrEdward Kleinbard, the¬†former chief of staff at the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, is out this morning with a new way President Barack Obama could work around the debt ceiling if Congress does not raise it in the coming weeks. The idea, which Kleinbard describes in The New York Times, is simple enough: Obama would, in effect, give out "IOUs" to existing claims holders like¬†federal employees, defense contractors, Medicare service providers, and Social Security recipients. Kleinbard writes: He should threaten to issue scrip ‚Äî ‚Äúregistered warrants‚Äù ‚Äî to existing claims holders. [...] The¬†scrip would not violate¬†the debt ceiling because it wouldn‚Äôt constitute a new borrowing of money backed by the credit of the United States. It would merely be a formal acknowledgment of a pre-existing monetary claim against the United States that the Treasury was not currently able to pay. The president could therefore establish a scrip program by executive order without piling a constitutional crisis on top of a fiscal one. To avoid any confusion with actual Treasury debt, and to be consistent with the law governing claims against the United States more generally, the scrip would not pay interest in most cases. And unlike debt, it would have no fixed maturity date but rather would become redeemable in cash only when the secretary of the Treasury was able to certify that there‚Äôs enough money available in the Treasury‚Äôs general fund to cover it. Finally, the scrip would be transferable, allowing financial institutions to buy it at a high percentage of its face value, knowing that the political crisis would almost certainly be resolved before long. Kleinbard says that the unusual strategy has precedent ‚Äî at least on a state level. In the midst of its 2009 budget crisis, California issued¬†450,000 IOUs worth $2.6 billion. The IOUs gave the negotiating parties wiggle room but forced a somewhat quick deal, and they prevented California from taking a hit on its credit. Of course, there's been no precedent on a federal level, and there's no telling how it would go over with markets. To make it work, Obama would have to waive the federal Anti-Assignment Act, which bans the transfer of claims against the United States from one private actor to another. The idea has also been advanced by Paul Krugman, who termed the IOUs "Moral Obligation Coupons" instead. Krugman wrote Monday that the Treasury could sell the coupons redeemable at face value in one year. As for the trillion-dollar coin? Kleinbard calls it a "fantastical idea." But the White House didn't rule out the option of minting the coin &gt;

APA quick note about market attitudes at the moment. A few days ago we posted this paragraph from BTIG's Dan Greenhaus about the outlook for the market: ¬†In a recent conversation with one of our hedge fund manager clients, we were pressed on our views (which we will expand on tomorrow). As we said then and repeat here, we think the outlook for equities is somewhat good but we remain laser focused on the debt ceiling. As such, a hedged position is probably warranted, something BTIG‚Äôs option team notes can be achieved simply through cheap March put spreads on the SPY. However, such a view -- favoring hedges -- is probably part of the reason Goldman Sachs noted 88% of hedge funds underperformed the S&amp;P 500 in 2012. But with the President set to nominate Jack Lew to Treasury Secretary (Republicans really don‚Äôt want him) and with the looming debt ceiling standoff, we just wouldn‚Äôt feel comfortable with another position, even as the argument for market participants getting more comfortable with Washington dysfunction grows with each successive standoff. This is what everyone is thinking these days. If it weren't for the debt ceiling, then the bullish case would be very easy. China isn't hard landing. Europe isn't in acute crisis. The US has plenty of positive tailwinds (housing notably). Meanwhile, retail bullishness continues to grow. It's far too early to say how the debt ceiling will wind up, but some on Wall Street are already thinking it won't be the horrible standoff like we saw in 2011 if that happens, you'll have to recognize how lopsided the pro-bull argument is vs. the bearish one.
AP, Verge Images, Photoshop by Jay Yarow Apple's stock is down 25% from its peak. Many factors have contributed to that drop. But none is more important than this: Apple has lost its edge. What does that mean? It means that Apple is no longer the clear product leader in several categories in which it has dominated the world in the past five years. Now, of course, Apple is still the most valuable and profitable company in the world. And its product design, manufacturing, and distribution are still remarkable. And it's still a great company that makes great products (I, for one, am a very happy Apple customer*). So, let's be specific. For most of the past five years, Apple has led the world in the following key areas. In the past couple of years, however, Apple has lost its lead. And in some areas, it has actually fallen behind: In all of these areas, Apple has lost a once-dominant edge. In the last year, we have also seen Apple stumble with respect to a widely expected new product--a new Apple TV. This product was initially expected to be announced last fall, and some of the excitement that drove Apple to $700 a share was anticipation about this release (most of it was anticipation about the iPhone 5). Ciccarese Design for MacRumors.comLast fall, this would have been cool.But now, analysts don't expect to see an Apple TV until the fall of 2013. And in the meantime, every other electronics company on earth is trying to frontrun Apple's TV effort, including Samsung. These efforts will make it harder for Apple to leapfrog existing TVs--and charge a premium price--when Apple's own TV finally comes out. (Apple fans will protest that Apple never announced a release date for the TV product, or even announced what it will be. That's certainly fair. But time does matter. Competitors aren't standing still. What would have been a startlingly cool TV last fall--"a sheet of glass floating in mid-air" and "a voice-operated show selector"--has now been debuted by Samsung. So the bar for Apple to establish a true edge in this market keeps going up.) It is hard for even the best companies to maintain an edge, especially in markets that move as fast as technology. And Apple rode its edge to amazing heights: The iPhone is still the biggest and most profitable single product in the world. But Apple has now lost much of its edge. So the next few years will be interesting. Especially as Apple truly moves into the "post-Steve Jobs era," which it is finally doing this year. SEE ALSO: Apple Launching A Cheap iPhone Is A Great Move By The Company *NOTE: Some readers have emailed me to ask whether I wrote this article because I am a Samsung-Android fan. I like the Samsung Galaxy S3 and I own two Samsung TVs (and love them). But my phone is an Apple iPhone 5, my laptop is an Apple Air, and we have an Apple iPad at home. I love these products. I also love Apple's customer service. As I said above, I am a very happy Apple customer, and I think Apple is a great company. But I still think the company has lost its edge. 
Sven Jari Stehn and David Mericle of Goldman Sachs have a new note out that outlines how the firm will attempt to track the effects of higher taxes on consumption in real-time. Goldman expects that the tax increases (via the end of the payroll tax holiday) will be a ìmajor headwindî for the economy in 1H 2013, but admits that there is ìconsiderable uncertainty about the scale and timing of the effect on consumption.î The firm projects consumption growth of 1.0 percent in Q1, which picks up slightly to 1.5 percent in Q2. The problem is that economic data is incredibly difficult to track in real-time, because of the time lag between the period for which the data is collected and the date on which it is released. For example, consumer spending for January will be released on March 1. The note includes a chart on which indicators Goldman will pay attention to as well as the release date for each data series. These indicators are either daily data, consumer confidence surveys, or hard consumption data: Goldman Sachs† Goldman has a model which allows it to see the ìgoodness of fitî ñ in essence, how much the daily data and confidence surveys analyzed are able to predict consumption. The firm has found that the modelís r-squared reaches 0.5 40 days after the start of the month, after auto sales and same-store sales are released. This means that on February 10, Goldmanís model will be able to explain 50 percent of Januaryís consumption volatility: †Goldman Sachs Obviously, the model isnít perfect, and can only explain 70 percent of consumption volatility in a given month before the actual release of consumer spending.
ECB Today, the ECB voted to leave interest rates unchanged, with the benchmark refinancing rate on hold at 0.75 percent, as economists expected. During last month's press conference, ECB President Mario Draghi admitted that a rate cut had been "widely discussed" on the Governing Council. This month, when confronted with the same question regarding today's vote, Draghi revealed that the decision to leave interest rates on hold was unanimous, and that there was no request for a rate cut. Draghi's answer caused the euro to spike against the dollar. Below is the full text of Draghi's opening remarks at the press conference, followed by excerpts from the Q&amp;A: Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased to welcome you to our press conference. Let me wish you all a Happy New Year. We will now report on the outcome of today‚Äôs meeting of the Governing Council. Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided to keep the¬†key ECB interest rates¬†unchanged. HICP inflation rates have declined over recent months, as anticipated, and are expected to fall below 2% this year. Over the policy-relevant horizon, inflationary pressures should remain contained. The underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area remain firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. The economic weakness in the euro area is expected to extend into 2013. In particular, necessary balance sheet adjustments in financial and non-financial sectors and persistent uncertainty will continue to weigh on economic activity. Later in 2013 economic activity should gradually recover. In particular, our accommodative monetary policy stance, together with significantly improved financial market confidence and reduced fragmentation, should work its way through to the economy, and global demand should strengthen. In order to sustain confidence, it is essential for governments to reduce further both fiscal and structural imbalances and to proceed with financial sector restructuring. Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting with the¬†economic analysis. Following a contraction of 0.2%, quarter on quarter, in the second quarter of 2012, euro area real GDP declined by 0.1% in the third quarter. Available statistics and survey indicators continue to signal further weakness in activity, which is expected to extend into this year, reflecting the adverse impact on domestic expenditure of weak consumer and investor sentiment and subdued foreign demand. However, more recently several conjunctural indicators have broadly stabilised, albeit at low levels, and financial market confidence has improved significantly. Later in 2013 a gradual recovery should start, as our accommodative monetary policy stance, the significant improvement in financial market confidence and reduced fragmentation work their way through to private domestic expenditure, and a strengthening of foreign demand should support export growth. The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area remain on the downside. They are mainly related to slow implementation of structural reforms in the euro area, geopolitical issues and imbalances in major industrialised countries. These factors have the potential to dampen sentiment for longer than currently assumed and delay further the recovery of private investment, employment and consumption. According to Eurostat‚Äôs flash estimate, euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.2% in December 2012, unchanged from November and down from 2.5% in October and 2.6% in August and September. On the basis of current futures prices for oil, inflation rates are expected to decline further to below 2% this year. Over the policy-relevant horizon, in an environment of weak economic activity in the euro area and well-anchored long-term inflation expectations, underlying price pressures should remain contained. Risks to the outlook for price developments are seen as broadly balanced over the medium term, with downside risks stemming from weaker economic activity and upside risks relating to higher administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher oil prices. Turning to the¬†monetary analysis, the underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be subdued. The annual growth rate of M3 remained broadly unchanged at 3.8% in November 2012, after 3.9% in October. M3 growth continued to be driven by a preference for liquid assets, as M1 growth increased further to 6.7% in November, from 6.5% in October, reflecting inflows into overnight deposits from households and non-financial corporations. Following our non-standard monetary policy measures and action by other policy-makers, a broadly based strengthening in the deposit base of MFIs in a number of stressed countries was observed. This allowed several MFIs to reduce further their reliance on Eurosystem funding and helped to reduce segmentation in financial markets. M3 growth was also supported by an inflow of capital into the euro area, as reflected in the strong increase in the net external asset position of MFIs. There has been little change in credit growth, which remained weak in November. The annual rate of decline in loans to the private sector (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) remained at -0.5% in November. This development reflects further net redemptions in loans to non-financial corporations. Net redemptions, however, were less pronounced than in previous months, amounting to ‚Ç¨4 billion in November, after ‚Ç¨7 billion in October and ‚Ç¨21 billion in September. The annual rate of decline in loans to non-financial corporations was -1.4% in November, after ‚Äë1.5% in October. The annual growth in MFI lending to households also remained broadly unchanged at 0.7% in November. To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect the current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk and the ongoing adjustment in the balance sheets of households and enterprises. In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential to continue strengthening the resilience of banks where needed. The soundness of banks‚Äô balance sheets will be a key factor in facilitating both an appropriate provision of credit to the economy and the normalisation of all funding channels. Decisive steps for establishing an integrated financial framework will help to accomplish this objective. The future single supervisory mechanism (SSM) is one of the main building blocks. It is a crucial move towards re-integrating the banking system. To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price developments should remain in line with price stability over the medium term. A¬†cross-check¬†with the signals from the monetary analysis confirms this picture. Other economic policy areas will need to make further contributions to ensure a firm stabilisation of financial markets and an improvement in the outlook for growth. Further¬†structural reforms¬†should be rapidly implemented to make the euro area a more flexible, dynamic and competitive economy. In particular, product market reforms to increase competition and competitiveness are essential, accompanied by measures to improve the functioning of labour markets. Such reforms will boost the euro area‚Äôs growth potential and employment and improve the adjustment capacities of the euro area countries. They will also add further momentum to the progress being made with regard to unit labour costs and current account imbalances. As regards¬†fiscal policies, the recent significant decline in sovereign bond yields should be bolstered by further progress in fiscal consolidation in line with the commitments under the Stability and Growth Pact. We are now at your disposal for questions. Below are excerpts from the Q&amp;A session: Mario Draghi says the decision to leave interest rates on hold was unanimous. Draghi cites stronger capital inflows into the euro area, TARGET2 balances that have gone down, and stronger deposit bases as signs that financial fragmentation is being gradually repaired. However, Draghi admits that the real economy continues to be weak. Draghi dismisses a question about Ireland qualifying for OMT, saying he has already discussed those qualifications many times. Draghi says the ECB is not thinking about an exit from non-standard monetary policy measures right now, but that we will see it when the economy is ready to exit. Draghi says there was no request for a rate cut at today's meeting. Draghi says we will see better credit conditions in the course of 2013, and the reforms will find their way through the economy. Draghi says that bank funding conditions right now are satisfactory; that's not where the problem is, contrary to the beginning of last year when the ECB launched LTROs. Draghi says each central bank has its own institutional setup, statutory objectives, and mandate. Within that mandate, the central bank attempts to influence expectations. The ECB has shown how to do it, based on subdued inflation expectations. Draghi says the principle of a single voice is essential for the ECB. Draghi says structural adjustment is "the only thing that matters" for adjusting imbalances in the eurozone and increasing competitiveness. Draghi was just asked a tough question about toxic bank balance sheets across the eurozone banking system. Draghi sidesteps it, saying he doesn't have as negative a view of the banking system as the reporter, but there is still a long way to go and a lot of work to be done toward repairing bank balance sheets. Draghi is taking a question on youth unemployment: at what point does it become an issue for monetary policy? Draghi says to just keep in mind that the ECB's mandate does not include employment. However, having said that, Draghi says unemployment is a very important factor in the ECB's analysis. Draghi says there are certainly elements of structural unemployment in the eurozone. "Monetary policy cannot do much about that." Draghi is answering a question about targeting exchange rates. He says he never comments on exchange rates, but the ECB does watch it closely in its analysis, although it does not target the exchange rate. Draghi says real, effective euro exchange rates are at long-term averages. Draghi says the combination of LTROs and easing collateral standards the ECB implemented last year was much like the BoE's more-recently announced "funding for lending" scheme. Draghi says the ECB welcomes the Basel rules and a "gradual phasing in" of those rules. Draghi is asked by a reporter, "Is the worst over?" Draghi says the present situation is characterized by high uncertainty stemming from geopolitical risks, the price of oil, commodity prices, and the policy decisions of euro area governments. Draghi says so much progress, accompanied by so many sacrifices, have taken place, that to revert to a situation that has been found to be untenable would not be right. Fiscal consolidation is unavoidable. Draghi says he is not in a position to make long-term assessments, as in 5 years out. Right now, inflation expectations are in line with the ECB's policies, which are in line with the ECB's objectives. Draghi: "I believe there is a positive contagion when things go well. I believe that is what is in play now." That concludes the Q&amp;A. --------------- EARLIER: The ECB voted to leave the benchmark refinancing rate unchanged at 0.75 percent this month, as expected. The deposit rate was left unchanged at 0 percent and the marginal lending facility was also unchanged at 1.5 percent. Next up is ECB President Mario Draghi's press conference at 8:30 AM.¬†Click here for LIVE updates &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Heads up ‚Äì the ECB announces its January interest rate decision at 7:45 AM ET. ECB President Mario Draghi will hold a press conference and take questions from reporters at 8:30 AM. The consensus call is that the ECB will leave interest rates unchanged at today's meeting given recent improvements in euro area economic data, but cuts were "widely discussed" at the last meeting. For an in-depth preview of the release, click here &gt; We will have LIVE coverage of the 7:45 release and the press conference. Click here for updates &gt;
The private equity firm along with some real-estate firms will pay $100 million for 877 stores, including Albertsons outlets. They'll take on an additional $3.2 billion in SVU's debt. Supervalu was the worst-performing major stock in 2012, falling -71 percent.
Dr. Ed's BlogLetís assume that President Obama really wants to reduce the federal deficit by trillions of dollars over the next 10 years rather than mint platinum coins. Then most of that money will have to come out of defense spending if the Republicans wonít let him increase taxes again and he wonít cut spending on entitlements. Over the past 12 months through November, federal government spending totaled $3.6 trillion, with ìnon-discretionaryî spending on social benefits accounting for 61%. Discretionary spending on defense accounted for 19%, and all other such outlays were just 20% of the total. By the way, during Q3-2012, spending on entitlements by federal and state governments accounted for 15% of nominal GDP, while federal defense outlays was 5%. The spread is likely to widen. Chuck Hagel was nominated on Monday by President Obama to run the Defense Department. David Brooks wrote in his 1/7 column that Hagel was picked ìto supervise the beginning of this generation-long process of defense cutbacks. If a Democratic president is going to slash defense, he probably wants a Republican at the Pentagon to give him political cover, and he probably wants a decorated war hero to boot.î Yesterday, when asked whether the administration would rule out minting a trillion-dollar coin, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney didn't outright deny the option: "You can speculate a lot of things, [but] nothing needs to come of these speculative notions" so long as Congress does its job, he said. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Trouble with Trillions. (1) Homer Simpson, Paul Krugman, and Bill Clinton. (2) The coin of the realm. (3) Change we can spend. (4) Democrats and Republicans kicking cans. (5) Altman sees a lid on the debt can. (6) Going over the sequester cliff. (7) Another deal to postpone a deal. (8) Boehnerís Rule vs. Obamaís rule. (9) A trillion here and there. (10) Global economic growth should improve this year, boosting revenues growth. (11) Our favorite Materials industries are Industrial Gases and Specialty Chemicals.
A U.S. Senate investigation released last month found that the bank HSBC helped Iranian banks skirt American trade sanctions and Mexican drug lords launder money. They also did business with a Saudi bank tied to the 9/11 ‚Äî after the attack. The kicker is that not one person is going to jail. Under U.S. law, "aiding and abetting terrorists," state or non-state actors, is a felony and punishable with significant prison time. Yet, official conclusions were that HSBC was simply "too big to prosecute." ¬†So they got a fine instead. "1.9 billion dollars," says Jon Stewart, "wow, I mean that's going to take them ... weeks ... to pay down." Here's the clip:¬†
flickr/acameronhuffRepublicans insist that there's nothing particularly irresponsible about attaching demands to a debt ceiling hike, because under no scenario are we actually risking default on our debt. Everyone agrees that not paying our national debt coupon payments would be financially catastrophic, but conservatives point out that the U.S. government takes in far more money each day than it spends on interest payments. Ergo, all the Treasury needs to do is "prioritize" payments, so that bondholders get paid first. However, if you follow the GOP's line on this, then Obama has an easy victory. Let's talk about what prioritization actually entails. The Bipartisan Policy Center looked at what we'd need to cut if the Treasury were to "prioritize" payments in favor of crucial things. Here are the two scenarios they examined: Scenario 1: If we chose to keep paying interest payments, Social Security, Medicare/Medicaid, tax refunds, military pay, and unemployment, then we'd have to stop paying defense vendors, veterans, the FBI, food/nutrition benefits, federal salaries, the FAA (air traffic controllers), etc. Scenario 2: If we chose to keep paying interest payments, Medicare/Medicaid, Social Security, Veterans Benefits, Defense Vendors, Federal Salaries, etc., then we'd have to stop paying tax refunds, the FBI, the EPA, Air Traffic Control, and so forth. You can see why this is an easy win for Obama. As soon as you stopped paying, say, Air Traffic Control, the FBI, and tax refunds, the impasse would be resolved in just a couple of days, as you'd almost certainly get a clean debt ceiling hike right away. The scenario would be like a 1994-style government shutdown except the public would be 10x more furious, and the pressure on Boehner to bring a debt ceiling hike to a vote would be far larger. We know that the GOP doesn't really want a traditional government shutdown (where they just refuse to pass a Continuing Resolution). That being said, Newt Gingrich, who was behind the 1994 shutdown has urged the GOP to fight on that front. The big question then is, in a debt ceiling-induced shutdown, does the Treasury have the technical means to prioritize? The Treasury makes 100 million computerized payments in a month, and it's not clear that it will be easy to jump and not make some of the payments. And it would inspire lawsuits. So the logistical hurdles would be immense. But if it can be done, it's really an easy win for Obama. And it might have long-term benefits, in that bringing to the public a taste of what hardcore austerity would look like might frame the debate. People like balanced budgets in theory. Putting them into practice would be enlightening. One issue that arises, as Mike Konczal has pointed out, is that tax revenue and interest payments are lumpy, and you might actually have days when the amount of revenue coming in doesn't match expenditures. This is where it might be useful, ,as Interfluidity suggests, to have some smaller denomination platinum coins on hand to manage cash flow when things got tight. Bottom line though: If there's no debt ceiling hike, and we instantly have to balance the budget, and we go into prioritization and have a major government shutdown, and people see all the services that stop functioning, the fight would be over fast. SEE ALSO: We have seen a major turning point in the fight over the trillion dollar coin &gt;
Heidi Gutman/ CNBCDaniel S. Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC, has a†reputation for his strongly worded (and public) letters to companies and CEOs. The sharp-tongued fund manager has made headlines again after taking a massive long position in Herbalife, the stock rival Bill Ackman has been publicly shorting. Third Point has disclosed that it owns 8,900,000 shares or an 8.24% stake. Ackman believes Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products, is a pyramid scheme. †Loeb doesn't believe Ackman's accusation has merit. Right now, it's an all-out hedge fund war between this hedge fund titans. So who is this activist investor? †We're going to a take a tour through Loeb's life and find out.†
Dividend stocks aren't just for old people and conservative investors. They're for anyone interested in making money. Breaking down the returns of the S&amp;P 500 by decade, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker shows that dividends play a critical role in total returns: Morgan Stanley
APNew York Gov. Andrew Cuomo on Wednesday outlined a seven-step proposal to curb gun violence featuring what he said he hopes will produce the "toughest assault weapons ban in the nation." Cuomo focused part of what was more than an hour long State of the State address to combating gun violence in the wake of the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., that left 20 children and seven others dead. ìI know that the issue of gun control is hard," Cuomo said in a passionate point of his speech. "I know it's political. I know itís controversial. I say to you, forget the extremists! Itís simple ó no one hunts with an assault rifle. No one needs 10 bullets to kill a deer, and too many innocent people have died already! End this madness ó now! "Pass safe, reasonable gun control in the State of New York. Make this state safer. Save lives. Set an example for the rest of the nation. Let them look at New York and say this is what you can do. This is what you should do!" Cuomo's words were praised by, among others, New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg, who called it "passionate leadership on gun violence." And it has already fanned the flames on speculation for a 2016 presidential run ó the cover of the New York Daily News on Thursday calls Cuomo "America's Sheriff." Some liberals who had been critical of Cuomo leading up to and after the election in November, though, wondered whether he would be able to enact that agenda with the Republican majority they say he helped create in November. Liberals were irked that Cuomo didn't do enough to elect Democrats to the New York state Senate in November, as he said he didn't care which party was in power.† Democrats won a numerical majority, but five Democrats broke from the party's caucus to form the Independent Democratic Caucus, which will share governing powers with Republicans.† "I think the big if is whether he can get any of it through the GOP majority he not [so] subtly encouraged in the Senate," said Phillip Anderson, a campaign content and strategy consultant at at†Corporate Action Network, a New York-based organization that advocates for progressive causes.† "I support what he's trying to do. Banning military style weapons and high capacity magazines seem to me to be very common sense moves. I say this as someone who grew up in the south, who grew up around guns, hunters and hunting. There's just no good reason for civilians to possess any of these." Newseum Cuomo's proposal consists of seven things he'd like to see implemented or changed with New York's gun laws: Anderson applauded Cuomo's plan, but he said that liberals have never had a problem with Cuomo on issues of gun control ó it's his positions on labor issues that irk them. Moreover, he may have compounded the chance to get his own proposals passed without a Democratic majority in the state Senate. "Yay! Do something about gun safety. Please," Anderson said in an email. "Also, quit being a Third Way/DLC retread." At the end of his speech Wednesday, Cuomo walked off the stage to enormous applause from the lawmakers in attendance. SEE ALSO:†Biden: Obama can take 'executive action' on gun control &gt;
The drama surrounding Bill Ackman's short position on Herbalife is heating up. Recently, Ackman announced that he was short Herbalife, accusing it of being a pyramid scheme. Today, Herbalife is unleashing its response. Citing sources, Fox Business News' Charlie Gasparino tweets that Herbalife has got a bazooka up its sleeve for Ackman. @cgasparino
UPDATE:¬†Initial jobless claims rose to 371,000 from last week's downwardly-revised 367,000 new claims. Click here for updates &gt; Economists expected a drop to 365,000. Continuing claims came in below expectations at 3.1 million. ---------------- ORIGINAL: Minutes away from the release of weekly jobless claims figures, due out in the United States at 8:30 AM ET. Economist expect 365,000 new claims for the week of January 5, down from 372,000 the week before. Continuing claims for the week of December 29 are expected to fall slightly to 3.23 million from 3.25 million the week before. We will have the release LIVE at 8:30 AM ET. Click here for updates &gt;

AP/Invision/Jordan StraussGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Herbalife became very popular recently when activist investor Bill Ackman deemed it a pyramid scheme and said the stock price was going to zero. Yesterday, high-profile hedge fund manager Dan Loeb came out and said Ackman's claim was wrong and joined the other side of the bet. Now The New York Post is reporting that Carl Icahn is on Loeb's side in the bet favoring Herbalife: Ackman isn‚Äôt on the good side of fellow activist investor Carl Icahn either, sources added. Icahn is still smarting from a bitter legal battle Ackman won in 2012 after a real-estate deal between the two went bad. Icahn is also believed to have taken a long position in Herbalife, sources said. The possibility of Loeb and Icahn going up against Ackman‚Äôs Herbalife short sent investors into a tizzy. Read more at NYPost.com.
The Bank of England has left its target interest rate unchanged as expected. Furthermore, the BoE has left its stimulus measures unchanged as expected. Markets aren't moving. Canadian banker Mark Carney will take the helm at the BoE from Mervyn King this summer.
The Spanish 10-year bond fell below 5 percent fro the first time since March 9, 2012, reports Bloomberg. This is a notable milestone for the country that continues to struggle with its heavy debt load. Yes, Europe continues to have a lot of work ahead.¬† However, skyrocketing borrowing costs, which are symptomatic of a crisis mindset, seem to be behind us for now. Here's a look at the one-year chart via Bloomberg. Bloomberg
Jan. 10 (Bloomberg) -- Warren Buffett, the billionaire investor who oversees stakes in some of the largest U.S. banks, said the nationís lenders have rebuilt capital to the point where they no longer pose a threat to the economy. ìThe banks will not get this country in trouble, I guarantee it,î Buffett, chairman and chief executive officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said in a phone interview last week. ìThe capital ratios are huge, the excesses on the asset side have been largely cleared out.î Lenders including Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. have sold assets, cut jobs and bolstered balance sheets after repaying taxpayer bailouts from 2008, when the companies were overwhelmed by losses on securities tied to the housing market. Those actions helped boost financial stocks last year and increased the value of Berkshireís holdings. Buffettís firm has investments in at least four of the seven biggest U.S. lenders by assets, including a stake of more than $14 billion in San Francisco-based Wells Fargo &amp; Co., $5 billion in Bank of America and warrants that allow it to buy $5 billion of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. shares. Berkshire also has a holding in U.S. Bancorp. ìOur banking system is in the best shape in recent memory,î Buffett said. Former bank executives and regulators have said the largest lenders still pose systemic risks to the economy four years after the bailouts and two-and-a-half years after legislators passed the most sweeping reforms to Wall Street regulation since the Great Depression. † † JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co.ís trading loss of at least $6.2 billion last year rekindled those concerns. Former Citigroup CEO Sanford ìSandyî Weill has said that deposit-taking and lending operations should be split from investment banking to prevent another financial crisis. Investors, too, have signaled their doubts about banksí accounting. Even after last yearís stock rally, Citigroup, Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan all trade at less than book value, a calculation of how much a lenderís assets would be worth minus liabilities. Mergers during the financial crisis sparked criticism that too-big-to-fail companies became even larger. Buffett said that concentration shouldnít worry investors. Canadian banks weathered the crisis better than counterparts in other nations, even as the biggest firms in that country held more market share than those in the U.S., he said. † † ìWe do not have an unusually concentrated banking system compared to the rest of the world, and there are certain advantages in the largest capital market in the world to having banks that are somewhat consistent with the size of those markets,î he said. The largest U.S. banks face another round of Federal Reserve stress tests to determine whether they have adequate capital to lift dividends and buy back stock. Bank of America CEO Brian T. Moynihan has said heís confident his company will pass after failing in 2011 when he didnít win approval for a dividend increase. Buffett lent his credibility to the bank by providing capital in 2011 after the lenderís shares declined more than 45 percent over eight months. The wager followed bets the billionaire made on Goldman Sachs and General Electric Co. in the depths of the 2008 crisis. Both of those companies have bought back the preferred shares sold to Buffett. Bank of America may do the same, he said. † † ìTheir condition has improved so significantly, and interest rates are so low, that they have the chance to do a number of things in that respect,î Buffett said. ìI may like to keep it, but if it makes sense for them to call it, theyíre going to call it.î Berkshireís preferred shares in the bank pay a 6 percent annual dividend and can be redeemed at any time for $5.25 billion, according to terms of the deal. Buffett also got 10- year warrants to buy 700 million common shares of the lender for $7.14 apiece. Bank of America closed yesterday at $11.43. Exercising the options at that price would generate a profit of about $3 billion. Buffett said Berkshire would probably wait until near the end of the contractsí life to exercise the options. ìWeíre in no hurry,î he said. ìNine years from now I would think that Bank of America as well as Wells Fargo and probably the other major banks will be worth considerably more money than they are now.î Larry DiRita, a spokesman for Bank of America, declined to comment on Buffettís investment. Bank of Americaís Tier 1 common capital ratio reached almost 9 percent at Sept. 30 under the newest international standards, up from about 8 percent three months earlier. Long- term debt fell to $286.5 billion at the end of the third quarter from $399 billion a year earlier. --Editors: Dan Kraut, Dan Reichl To contact the reporters on this story: Noah Buhayar in New York at nbuhayar@bloomberg.net; Hugh Son in New York at hson1@bloomberg.net; Betty Liu in New York at bliu17@bloomberg.net To contact the editors responsible for this story: Dan Kraut at dkraut2@bloomberg.net; David Scheer at dscheer@bloomberg.net
Wikimedia Commons"About half of the world's total oil production of nearly 90 million barrels per day is transported over water," write US Funds analysts. At some point, almost all of this seaborne oil passes through one of seven chokepoints, or a narrow body of water. At these chokepoints, oil tankers face various risks ranging from heavy traffic to piracy.¬† Any disruption could lead to volatility in oil prices. US Funds recently took a close look at these seven chokepoints.¬† We highlight some of their findings here.
The Great Recession and the very slow pace of subsequent recovery has sky-rocketed unemployment, as well as people on welfare and food stamps. †A record high of 15 percent, or 46.37 million Americans, were on food stamps in June last year ó that's almost one in every seven Americans. †That number is not expected to come down much without a significant improvement in the unemployment picture. † †Even worse, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education:  The number of people with graduate degrees ó master's degrees and doctorates ó who have had to apply for food stamps, unemployment or other assistance more than tripled between 2007 and 2010. †Of the 22 million Americans with master's degrees or higher in 2010, about 360,000 were receiving some kind of public assistance, according to the latest Current Population Survey released by the U.S. Census Bureau in March 2011. So holding a PhD does not automatically walk you into even a decent paying job any more. †This infographic below helps to illustrates this sad new reality in America. †††Source:†OnlineColleges.netEconmatters© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle     Read more posts on EconMatters ª
German Bailout Chancellor Angela Merkel, who is trying to avoid any tumult ahead of the elections later this year, has a new headache. Cyprus might default and exit the Eurozone. Using taxpayer money or the ECBís freshly printed trillions to bail out the corrupt Greek elite or stockholders, bondholders, and counterparties of decomposing banks, or even privileged speculators, is one thing, but bailing out Russian ìblack moneyî is, politically at least, quite another. Cyprus is in horrid shape. Particularly its banks. Their Ä152 billion in ìassetsî are 8.5 times the countryís GDP of Ä17.8 billion. ìAssetsî in quotation marks because some have dissipated and because Ä23 billion in loans, or 27% of the banksí entire credit portfolio, are nonperforming. Thatís 127% of GDP! And then there are the Russian-owned ìblack-moneyî accounts. A ìsecretî report by the German version of the CIA, the Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND) was leaked last November, revealing that any bailout of Cyprus would benefit rich Russians and their Ä26 billion in ìblack moneyî that they deposited in the now collapsing banks. The report accuses Cyprus of creating ideal conditions for large-scale money laundering, including handing out Cypriot passports to Russian oligarchs, giving them the option to settle in the EU. Much of this laundered money then reverses direction, turning minuscule Cyprus into Russiaís largest foreign investor [read... †The Bailout of Russian ìBlack Moneyî in†Cyprus]. Now Cyprus needs Ä17.5 billionójust about 100% of its GDPóof which Ä12 billion would go directly to the murky and putrid banks. The package should be wrapped up and signed on February 10 at the meeting of the European finance ministers. ìI cannot imagine that the German taxpayer will save Cypriot banks whose business model is to abet tax fraud,î grumbled Sigmar Gabriel, chairman of the opposition SPD that has been a supporter of euro bailouts; and Merkel, hobbled by opposition within her own coalition, had relied on them to get prior bailouts passed. ìIf Mrs. Merkel wants to have the approval of the SPD, she must have very good reasons,î he said. ìBut I donít see any....î The Greens are resisting the Cyprus bailout for the same reasons. And 20 members of Merkelís own coalition are categorically opposed to it. For the first time, Merkel has no majority to get a bailout package passed. The opposition smells an election advantage. Before the German finance minister can vote in the Euro Group of finance ministers for disbursement of bailout funds, he must seek parliamentary approval. The German Constitutional Court said so, inconveniently. But without his yes-vote, which weighs 29%, the qualified majority of 73.9% cannot be reached. The bailout disbursement crashes. Thatís what Cyprus is contemplating. Fearing defeat, sources within the government now made it known that they wouldnít even present a bailout package unless Cyprus agreed to ìradical reforms,î including massive privatizations of the bloated state sectoróprecisely what communist President Dimitris Christofias has ruled out. The Russian ìblack moneyî is so unpalatable that even the bailout-happy President of the EU Parliament, Martin Schulz, got cold feet. Before a bailout package could be put together, he said, ìit must be disclosed where the money in Cyprus is coming from.î Markus Ferber, head of Merkelís coalition partner CSU, demanded a guarantee that ìwe help the citizens of Cyprus and not the Russian oligarchs.î In addition, he wants Cyprus to reform its naturalization law. If Cyprus wants to get bailed out, he mused, it must make sure ìthat not everyone who has a lot of money can get a Cypriot passport.î Having learned a lesson from Greece, Cyprus has gone on a charm offensive to persuade the other 16 Eurozone countries that its ìblack moneyî problem has evaporated and that more reforms arenít necessary. If Greece is any guide, Merkel will vociferously demand more reforms and transparence in the banking sector. The February 10 deadline might pass. Cyprus will come up with a list of promises. Gradually the rhetoric will change. Words like ìprogressî will show up. ìBlack moneyî will disappear from the media. This might even culminate with a heartwarming meeting in Berlin between Merkel and Christofias. And suddenly, voting against the Cyprus bailout will become politically risky. It worked before. It might work again. If not, Cyprus with all its ìblack moneyî might become the first Eurozone country to go bust. The European Commission issued its report on bank bailouts, the ì2012 State Aid Scoreboard.î Turns out, the amount that the 27 EU states had handed to their banks amounted to Ä1.6 trillion. 13% of GDPóto bail out bank stockholders, bondholders, and counter parties, and enrich privileged speculators. Read.... The EU Bailout Oligarchy Issues A Report About†Itself.
djjewelz / FlickrSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Fast-food chain KFC's parent Yum Brands Inc apologized to customers in China over its handling of a recent food scare that has hit the company's sales in its biggest market. "We regret shortcomings in our self-checking process, a lack of internal communication," Su Jingshi, chairman and chief executive of Yum China, wrote on the company's Weibo microblog. Yum, which gets more than half of its revenue and operating profit from China, warned on Monday that bad publicity from the safety review of its chicken suppliers had hit sales in China harder than expected in the fourth quarter. Subsequent findings by the Shanghai Food and Drug Administration found the levels of antibiotics and steroids in Yum's current batch of KFC chicken supply were safe, though the watchdog found a suspicious level of an antiviral drug in one of the eight samples tested. The scandal erupted when the official China Central Television reported in late December that some of the chicken supplied to KFC and McDonald's Corp contained excess amounts of antiviral drugs and hormones used to accelerate growth. A spokesman for Yum told Reuters on Tuesday that the firm had stopped using the two suppliers before the official probe was announced, after its own random tests showed they were not meeting Yum's own standards. LACK OF TRANSPARENCY Yum's Su also apologized for the company's failure to actively report test results to the government and a lack of transparency and speed in its external communication. Nonetheless, the bad publicity has hurt KFC's image in China, where Western brands are often regarded as safer and higher quality than Chinese peers, an important factor as food safety is often near the top of the list of consumer concerns. "They do finally apologize now, but it's too late. I don't know if other people will forgive them or not, but I certainly won't!" wrote Jackson_Dong on popular microblog site Sina Weibo. Yum, which has more than 5,100 restaurants in China and is the largest Western restaurant operator in China, pulled some products in 2005 because they contained "Sudan Red" dye, which was banned from use in food due to concerns it could lead to an increased risk of cancer. (Reporting by Adam Jourdan and Shanghai Newsroom; Editing by Ryan Woo) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
">Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderMarkets are a tad higher in Europe. England's FTSE 100 is up 0.1%. France's CAC 40 is flat. Germany's DAX is up 0.1%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.1%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.4%. Last night, we learned that Chinese exports surged 14.1 percent in December, which was well ahead of expectations. Later this morning, the ECB and Bank of England will make their interest rate decisions. Click Here For A Full Preview Of The ECB Announcement &gt;
Ralph Orlowski/Getty ImagesMario DraghiThe ECB announces its monthly interest rate decision at 7:45 AM ET. Following the announcement, ECB President Mario Draghi will hold a press conference and Q&amp;A session at 8:30 AM. The big question going into this month's meeting is whether the ECB will cut the benchmark refinancing rate in the eurozone ñ which currently stands at 0.75 percent ñ in order to provide a bit of additional stimulus to a a euro area economy that continues to deteriorate. In a preview of the decision, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale economist James Nixon says that "Thursdayís ECB meeting could go right down to the wire," adding that the decision is "likely to prove a particularly close call with a significant expectation that the ECB will cut interest rates again." However,†SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale doesn't see the ECB cutting interest rates tomorrow. Neither does Citi economist†J¸rgen Michels, nor do Deutsche Bank economists Mark Wall and Gilles Moec. The Wall Street economists all cite the same reason the ECB will keep interest rates on hold: recent economic data in the eurozone have signaled improvements ñ the rate of deterioration, at least, is slowing for now. Here is how Michels paints the picture: In addition to the second consecutive increase in the composite PMI, by 0.7 points MM to 47.2 in December (highest reading since March 2012), the three national sentiment indicators that were explicitly mentioned by ECB President Mario Draghi at the December press conference, improved further in December.†The German ifo sentiment index (+1.0 points MM to 102.4, the highest reading since July 2012), the French INSEE index (+ 1 point MM to 87, the highest reading since August 2012) and the Italian ISTAT business confidence index for the manufacturing sector (+0.4 points to 88.9, the highest reading since June 2012) all increased for a†second consecutive month in December. Improvement in the indicators likely makes the decision a little easier for the ECB, but there is also another very basic point about interest rate cuts: given how much the mere introduction of the OMT bond market intervention program has been able to bring down interest rates in the periphery, the impact of a small cut to the refi rate likely won't have much incremental impact. That's why the ECB is going to want to save rate cuts in case it has to deal with additional shocks in the future, says BofA Merrill Lynch economist Laurence Boone in a note to clients. Boone outlines what she sees as the key risks the ECB is probably holding on to rate cuts in case of: In our view, there are two main types of risks: country-specific risks, related to politics in some countries; and risks related to the EU governance process. Country-specific risks in 1Q13: although there has been an agreement on easing risks related to the fiscal cliff, the fiscal adjustment will weigh on US economic activity in the short-term, with spillover effects on the rest of the worldís economic momentum, and negotiations for the debt ceiling could yield further market volatility (see After the cliff: three great gorges). As well, tensions in Spain could heighten first if the market started seeing reluctance in the ECBís rescue plans, and second if austerity was to destabilize somewhat Catalonia's government. Political uncertainty could increase in Italy if polls suggest an unclear outcome (though Mario Monti's involvement is a positive); and tensions in Cyprus could spill over to other periphery countries. EU institutions: we do not expect major progress in euro-area governance, but the usual fiscal surveillance procedure could yield some volatility should it highlight some difficulties in program countries to reach their targets either for 2013 or because final figures for 2012 were to reflect higher-than-expected slippage. In this respect, discussions around Spainís budget figures (on 21 January ñ as part of the Stability and Growth Pact process, on 13 February when the European Commission publishes forecasts for 2013 and updates 2012 numbers, followed by a eurogroup meeting on 4 March) may be closely watched by markets, ahead of a large bond redemption in April. Deutsche Bank's Wall and Moec agree that some bad economic data could give the ECB the impetus for a further rate cut in the coming months. The two economists write that given the fact that a rate cut was already "widely discussed" at the December meeting, it might not take much: Nonetheless, it might not take much in terms of data disappointment to tip the balance from ìwidely discussingî to actually cutting rates. In mid-February Eurostat publishes the flash estimate for Q4 GDP. The pace of contraction will deepen compared to Q3 (-0.2% qoq) and may provide the trigger. On the other hand, a gradual further recovery in the surveys through the quarter could steady the ECBís hand. A 25bp refi rate cut in March remains out baseline, but is not a given. The ECB announces its decision Thursday morning at 7:45 AM ET, followed by a press conference led by Mario Draghi and Q&amp;A at 8:30. Follow it all LIVE on Business Insider &gt; MORE: The European Bailout That Everyone Forgot About Is Running Into Trouble &gt;
Yes, banks issued millions of mortgage loans that homebuyers couldn't afford, targeted minorities for subprime loans, and made the entire lending experience a muddled, confusing mess. And yes, federal regulations made it possible for them to do so. But, as some consumer critics argue, it wasn't as if borrowers were nailed down to a chair and forced to sign the dotted line. In the end, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has come out on the side of the consumer. On Wednesday, the agency issued a new set of regulations that will put the onus on lenders to decide whether homebuyers are worthy of a loan. They're calling it the "Ability-to-Pay" rule. ‚ÄúWhen consumers sit down at the closing table, they shouldn‚Äôt be set up to fail with mortgages they can‚Äôt afford,‚Äù CFPB Director Richard Cordray said in a statement. ‚ÄúOur Ability-to-Repay rule protects borrowers from the kinds of risky lending practices that resulted in so many families losing their homes. This common-sense rule ensures responsible borrowers get responsible loans.‚Äù Here's what the new rule entails:¬† The end of quick sale loans. In the past, lenders could get away with offering quickie low- or no-doc loans (they required few financial documents, if any, from the borrower and then could sell off the risky loans to investors). With the new rule, lenders must do a proper financial background. That means sizing up borrowers'¬†employment status; income and assets; current debt obligations; credit history; monthly payments on the mortgage; monthly payments on any other mortgages on the same property; and monthly payments for mortgage-related obligations. Risky borrowers will have a harder time securing a loan. The lender must prove the borrower has "sufficient assets" to pay back the loan eventually. According to the CFPB, that's determined by calculating debt-to-income ratio (total monthly debt divided by monthly income).¬† No more "teaser rates" to suck borrowers in. Lenders love to roll out juicy low introductory rates on mortgages to lure borrowers in, but under the new rule, they must calculate a borrower's ability to repay his loan based on the true mortgage rate ‚Äì‚Äì including both the principal and the interest over the long-term life of the loan.¬† The agency will likely make exceptions for nonprofit lenders who work specifically with low- and middle-income borrowers. SEE ALSO: This MBA student is learning how to flip a home the hard way &gt;
Guang Niu/Getty ImagesFor some, a Chinese hard landing isn't off the table. But one detail from December's trade report could disappoint those expecting it.† Societe Generale's Wei Yao, who was named the second most accurate forecaster on the Chinese economy by Bloomberg, has previously explained that imports are a good economic indicator for Chinese hard/bumpy/soft landing watchers.† This is because imports center on investments and have a domestic demand component to them. Moreover, import data is one of the more reliable economic indicators since it is less prone to statistical adjustments and can be verified by cross-checking with China's trade partners. And imports in December rose six percent year-over-year, after 0 percent growth in November.† Based on today's report, Bank of America's Ting Lu says in a note to clients that both imports and exports have "bottomed out from their lows in mid-2012". And while he maintains that the pace of export growth is likely to stay at 7.9 percent achieved in 2012, he thinks imports could rise to 11.5 percent YoY in 2013, from 4.3 percent in 2012. "Regarding import growth, it could accelerate quite a lot on robust domestic demand and rising commodity prices," according to Ting. What's more? He points out that December's import data shows that growth of ordinary imports, an indicator of domestic demand, improved to -0.6% yoy in Dec from -7.9% in November. Of course this is one piece in a much larger picture on the overall health of the Chinese economy, but it's one for China bears to watch.
