www.flickr.comIt's not easy for law school grads to find work these days ‚Äî especially if they didn't go to a top law school. Even lawyers who snag fancy jobs right out of law school might be doomed. We spoke to one former lawyer who says he managed to break into the world of corporate law only to get shut out completely because of bad luck. Our source went to law school in New York City and started scouring law firm websites for job openings after graduation. Even then, he says, there was an oversupply of lawyers, so job hunting wasn't easy. He eventually spotted the name of a former college classmate on a firm website and emailed her out of the blue. "I was lucky," he says. Or so he thought. It was 2007, and he'd just gotten work at one of the Big Apple's so called "ALM 100" law firms working on hedge fund formation. The first wave of layoffs hit his firm about a year into his BigLaw stint, and our source kept his job. Such massive layoffs were pretty much unprecedented for law firms, which historically were able to weather bad economic times. The financial crisis really hammered the legal industry though ‚Äî especially New York law firms that had a lot of clients on Wall Street. Around 2008, the blog Above the Law run by ex-lawyer David Lat began reporting on every major law firm's mass layoff. Our source actually found out about the first layoff at his firm by reading Above the Law. That's how he found out about the second wave too. (Our source kept his job again.) Eventually, though, his firm let him go through a so-called "stealth layoff," in which a firm lets people go one at a time so as not to call attention to its financial woes. "It's less dramatic," our source says. "If you lay off 30 [people], David Lat will call you out." After our source's stealth layoff, he was sent on his way with three months of severance pay and six figures of law school debt. He desperately wanted to find another lawyer job. But, he says, "No one will hire you if they know you're laid off because you're tainted." He attributes this attitude to law firms once being seen as "recession-proof." If you get laid off, the logic goes, you must have been a bad lawyer. "There's a stigma attached to layoffs that you wouldn't see in a field like finance. In finance, they understand there's a cycle," our source says. Even though our source got a job at a prestigious firm right out of law school, he couldn't get any job as a lawyer after he got laid off. He doesn't work in the law anymore. He makes a lot less money now, and he has to work a second job that he hates. Looking back, he says, he probably would have skipped law school. Our source went to law school in the first place because it was "intellectually challenging," he says. "But the problem is just because something is intellectually challenging it doesn't mean you have to make a career [out of it]," our source told us. "Chess is interesting, but does that mean you should pay $100,000 to go to chess school? Obviously there isn't a huge market for professional chess players ... It's an exaggeration, but I feel like the legal industry is just as bad as the professional chess industry."
WikipediaKumgang MountainsThere is no shortage of reasons why people might not care for North Korea. But one thing's for sure: much of its geography is pristine. In September 2011, Bloomberg's Paul Allen reported that North Korea was hosting Chinese tourists in an effort to attract desperately needed investment funds from the world's second largest economy. Efforts included cruises to Mount Kumgang and presentations led by North Korea's¬†Taepung Investment Group. While it continues to be one of the poorest countries in the world, it is also one of the least polluted. "Grim communist stereotypes soon give way to unspoiled natural beauty, one of the few upsides of having stagnant economic growth," said Allen. "The sea here is so clean," said a Chinese tourist. "It's pollution free and it's so pristine. This is definitely something you can't easily see in China." China is the anti-North Korea in that it has experienced rapid economic growth, which has led to massive pollution. Wikimedia CommonsPools Near Kuryong Waterfalls
Bloomberg TVAnd we have our first analyst comment on the news that North Korea says it's in a state of "war" now with South Korea. It comes from SocGen's Sebastien Galy, who sends his ultra-quick missive: Technically the two countries have been at war just stopped fighting, but in the game of rhetoric it feels a bit like closing the door behind you. Should give the USD a bid and shake some positions if it is anything close to meaning significant action. A butterfly flapping through the minefields. For more on the developments, follow along here.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. It's Time For Investors To Get Defensive (BMO Capital Markets) While stocks have hit all-time highs in the first quarter. The past three years have got investors thinking that there will be a pullback in "middle" quarters. In fact they expected a correction in the second quarter.¬† "Given the prolonged absence of ‚Äúreal‚Äù money investing within US stocks (stock inflows have certainly improved lately but remain far too weak to compensate for the massive outflows exhibited over the past several years), we believe there is a high likelihood for patterns to repeat themselves yet again this year. This is one reason we have remained cautious with our 2013 S&amp;P 500 price target of 1,575 while the index has quickly approached this level.¬† "As a result, we believe it is an appropriate time to for investors to become tactically more defensive within portfolios and not abandon US stock investing in the upcoming months." Advisors Can Learn A Lot From Yale's Endowment Fund (Advisor Perspectives) Yale University's endowment funds has 10-year return that's 400 basis points higher than the Wilshire 5000 ‚Äì a market-cap weighted index of all stocks that are traded in the U.S.. The principles used in it can also be used to manage client portfolios, write C. Thomas Howard and Lambert Bunker. Some of these principles include 1. "Separate short-term and long-term investment buckets" to help whittle out emotions from investing. They recommend three investment buckets, the emergency fund/short-term income bucket; capital growth bucket; non-standard bucket. 2 "Careful strategic allocation." 3. "Select superior active managers," this involves separating active and passive managers and understanding the "consistency and conviction" of his/her strategy. Most Of The Cash Returned To Stockholders Has Been In The Form Of Share Buybacks (Musings on Markets) "While there are some strict value investors who believe that dividends are qualitatively better than buybacks, because they are less volatile, the aggregate amount returned by US companies in buybacks is too large to be ignored. "...Over the last decade, buybacks have been more volatile than dividends but the bulk of the cash flows returned to stockholders has come in buybacks." Musings on Markets SAC Manager Michael Steinberg Arrested (Thomson Reuters News &amp; Insight) SAC Capital's¬† Michael Steinberg was arrested in New York on Friday in connection with an insider-trading probe by the FBI. Prosecutors are investigating whether he traded shares of Dell on insider information. He is the most senior SAC manager to be charged, and his lawyer Barry Berke maintains that Steinberg has done "absolutely nothing wrong."  "If We Avoid A Fiscal Mistake Then The Risks Of A Recession Go Down Sharply" (Gluskin Sheff) While economic indicators suggest the U.S. economic recovery is picking up and many analysts are upwardly revising their GDP forecasts some still worry that certain events can tip the economy into a recession. Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg says this won't be the Fed pulling the plug on QE, or contagion from Europe's debt crisis, a crisis in the Middle East or even a Chinese hard landing. Instead, he thinks the biggest threat is Washington.¬† "If there is a risk, it is probably on the fiscal front and that policymakers pull off some sort of 1937-38 stunt (the FDR recession) or the premature sales tax hike in Japan in 1997-98 which sent the economy back into a tailspin. "‚Ä¶If in fact we avoid a fiscal mistake, then the risks of a recession go down sharply (some Fed district banks peg the odds at a mere 6%) and what we are left with is what we have had all along, which is a muddle-through post-bubble deleveraging economy."
Corcoran Real Estate GroupThe lobby at the still-under-construction Baccarat Hotel, where a very expensive penthouse is for sale.The New York City real estate world is abuzz over two properties reported to be hitting the market for well over $100 million in the past couple of days. One belongs to SAC Capital honcho Steve A. Cohen; the other was owned by late investor Martin Zweig. In light of these two blockbuster properties, we're taking a look at the 10 most expensive homes that are currently for sale in New York City, based on publicly available listings.
The EU/IMF raiding bank accounts in Cyprus to bail out the country's financial system sets a dangerous precedent and investors should "run for the hills" said investor Jim Rogers, chairman of Rogers Holdings, on†"Squawk on the Street" Thursday.† Rogers said that with Cyprus, politicians are saying that this is a special case and urging people not to worry, but that is exactly why investors should be concerned. "What more do you need to know? Please, you better hurry, you better run for the hills. I'm doing it anyway," Rogers said. "I want to make sure that I don't get trapped. Think of all the poor souls that just thought they had a simple bank account. Now they find out that they are making a 'contribution' to the stability of Cyprus. The gall of these politicians." "If you're going to listen to government, you're going to go bankrupt very quickly," he added. "I, for one, am making sure I don't have too much money in any one specific bank account anywhere in the world, because now there is a precedent," he said. "The IMF has said 'sure, loot the bank accounts' the EU has said 'loot the bank accounts' so you can be sure that other countries when problems come, are going to say, 'well, it's condoned by the EU, it's condoned by the IMF, so let's do it too.'"† Jim Rogers, a voice closely followed by market participants, began shorting financials, home builders and Fannie Mae in 2006, and is famous for co-founding the Quantum Group of Funds with billionaire George Soros. Quantum is famously regarded for†"breaking" the Bank of England and forcing a devaluation of the pound. Rogers said that he has started the process in several European countries to get his bank accounts under the insured amounts. "Everybody should do the same thing too, because they're going to go crazy the next time around," he said. In Europe, Rogers said that he owns Swiss francs and several long-term investments he's had for decades, but added that he is "certainly not buying there. It's pretty scary what's going on in Europe, especially when they're taking money out of people's bank accounts." On the stock market hitting all-time highs, Rogers said that "it is very artificial. If you give me a trillion dollars, I'll show you a good time too and a lot of people are having a good time. I'm somewhat skeptical because I know it's going to end badly."† "I'm certainly not investing in the U.S., because the U.S. is making all-time highs based on money printing," he said, adding that he's put money in Russia and Japan recently. "The whole world is benefiting from all this money being printed, but there are better places than where the all-time high is."† ó By CNBC's Paul Toscano.†Follow him on Twitter†and get the latest stories from "Squawk on the Street"†@ToscanoPaul
Muhanna Fala'ah / GettyTen years after the invasion of Baghdad, major American oil companies are staying away from investing in Iraq's oil resources, McClatchy's Sean Cockerham reports. Instead, many of Iraq's newest oil fields are now controlled by Chinese. Iraq possesses the second-largest oil deposit in the world, in the West Qurna region. Forbes says the country could easily become the second-largest oil producer in the world after Saudi Arabia.† Only Exxon and Occidental have active stakes in Iraqi oil fields.†The reason for America's relative absence, Cockerham writes, is that the country is still too unstable.† Chinese firms don't seem to mind that as much, he says: one third†of all future Iraqi oil production is expected to come from Chinese-owned fields. There are in fact many U.S. drillers, including Halliburton, operating in the fields themselves, Cockerham notes. But folks like Chevron, ConocoPhillips and Suncor are nowhere to be seen. This does not mean the U.S. is not receiving zero oil from Iraq. We still import more than 173 million barrels of oil from there a year. But that's actually not all that much ó about 4.4 percent of our entire import base, according to EIA data. And that's down from about ten years ago ó once the country's economy came back online ó when we were taking in 240 million bby. It's certainly not the situation many predicted we'd be in in 2013.†
File this with more qualitative thoughts and reasonings - a space we find ourselves frequenting lately as the US equity markets tempt fate for a third time.  With glass on our shoulders (see Meridian), we would be fooling ourselves if we did not consider scenarios A through G of what could happen should the other panes break with conviction - or if we should continue to focus on trends we have had the strongest reads on and ignore what they eventually¬†should¬†mean to the equity market cycle. Translation: (Insert overused quote on irrationality from Keynes here) ¬† Market Anthropology Granted, the intuitive trades for us have come from¬†the liquidation corners of the market, namely,¬†the precious metals complex - buttressed by the currency differentials between the US dollar and the euro - and what we have perceived to be a rather rational unwind in Apple. Of course, the follow up question, "Why is Apple unwinding so ¬†diligently in a teflon tape?" likely resides closer to the same dog that's sniffing around and wagging the precious metals complex. Needless to say, we consider it anything but benign and scented for canine satisfaction 2.bp.blogspot.com Market Anthropology From our perspective, world markets (ex-US) have been discretely rolling over throughout the first quarter. Europe, the BRICs, Canada - you name a major equity market and it very likely turned down before or during the month of March. Collectively, that balance is expressed in the MSWorld market chart shown below and to the left. ¬†Perhaps we are colored by a certain bias, but see the dynamic primarily motivated by the US dollar's newfound dominance, namely, in the face of a wounded euro and Europe. Downstream¬†of the euro's Q2 pivot¬†(see¬†Here)¬†- world markets have yet to find the same traction the SPX has enjoyed. It isn't a causal coincidence to find the correlation,¬†considering the burgeoning emergent economies so closely tied to the commodity cycle - and the fact that Europe is China's largest trade parter.¬† From a comparative performance perspective, the current market landscape most resembles the topping process in¬†2000, where the negative divergence in performance between the SPX and the rest of the world grew steadily - until the US equity markets exhausted in late March. While some will certainly ignore this divergence or even sugar coat it as simply a safe-haven equity flight to the US; the simple truth is world growth - of which the financial markets are the the tip of the spear - are more entangled than ever. The US may outperform for a spell, but we'll still catch the same bug should the world get ill.¬† Market Anthropology As we've discussed over the past several weeks in various notes (see¬†Here¬†&amp;¬†Here), the conditions we are most concerned with in the broader macro context is the persistence of disinflationary momentums that under the right conditions could exasperate a turn in confidence in our monetary handlers mettle to fight underlying deflation. We feel these concerns are evident in the inflation data in the face of considerable monetary stimulus and our focus on assets that not-so-long-ago were the darlings of the cycle - such as the precious metals complex and Apple. ¬†¬†We also continue to focus on the silver:gold ratio, because historically its contraction has marketed the end of a reflationary drive in equities. The ratio can be used either as a proxy for risk appetites, whereas, the higher beta asset of silver is contrasted with gold; or as a leading indicator of economic conditions, considering silver's industrial demand versus golds perception as a safe-haven in certain market conditions. ¬†Below is a longer-term chart of the SPX and MSWorld indexes contrasted with a smoothed silver:gold ratio as expressed by its 50 week SMA. In the previous two equity market tops, the silver:gold ratio peaked and turned down before the credit and equity markets got the memo that risk management has left the building. Market Anthropology The two charts below paint somewhat similar momentum profiles in which both cycles had large indiscriminate bids in risk appetites (as expressed by the parabolic nature of the silver:gold ratio), sandwiched between two smaller financial crises - before the broader cycle turned down.Market Anthropology Market Anthropology Following up on the silver:gold/SPX performance spread, the construct exhibited the widest inversion since the start of the secular bear market in equities in March 2000. Considering our expectations that weakness in silver will persist (see¬†Here), we see no reason in joining the party and chasing the equity markets on the long side here. ¬† Market Anthropology¬† Back in September, immediately following the commencement of QE3 - I wrote a note that addressed some of my concerns pertaining to what I perceived to be a double edge sword with the great commodity unwind (see¬†Here): ¬† ¬† "I like to remind myself that it's much easier to rekindle economic growth across the globe, when all that is required is a large shovel, boat and a frothy marketplace.¬† Although commodity inflation has provided the US consumer a painful transition in the pocketbook over the past decade, we likely do not fully appreciate how beneficial that same knife has smoothed the impact of our own financial stumbles - in a world more than ever financially dependent upon the health of the majority."¬† Market Anthropology  In light of the continued downturn in the commodity sector and the slowing growth evident throughout both the emergent and developed world, I find myself considering aspects of our¬†Constructive Interference Theory¬†- through the prism of what¬†couldhappen if both the commodity and equity market cycles turned down together against the backdrop of a declining to troughing interest rate environment. It would be the backside of the global constructive interference wave that began over 40 years ago. As evident from the long-term chart which depicts these three asset cycles - it would be new territory. With that said, and with the perspective of 200 years of market history - the Everest slope of a declining interest rate environment over the past 30 years which helped imbibe the greatest equity market returns - were never in the same league. In many ways - ignorance until proven guilty has been blissful capital management in the equity markets. Certainly easier said than done, considering the range and trauma the equity markets have traveled over the past 13 years. But within the broader historical context - well within reason. ¬†
Bloomberg TelevisionImproving U.S. economic data, including today's strong personal income and spending report, has economists cranking up their forecasts for GDP growth. However, the economy is nevertheless fragile and the risk of a recession is always within sight. But what could cause the economy to tip into recession? Some think that it could be premature tightening by the Federal Reserve. Or spillover from the euro crisis. Or a hard landing in China.† Or turmoil in the Middle East. Gluskin Sheff economist David Rosenberg thinks it won't be any of those.† Rather, he thinks if we slip into a recession, it'll be Washington's fault. From Rosenberg: So the question is will we get a recession or won't we? Everything else is background noise.† Well, there is no chance the Fed is going to be raising rates, let alone inverting the yield curve any time on the horizon. So if there is going to be a downturn, it is going to have to come from some exogenous negative shock ó keeping in mind at the same time that there is precious little cushion with an underlying GDP trend of 1.5%. I don't see it from Europe, or China, or the Middle East for that matter. Housing is not capable of relapsing given its still-depressed state.† The latest Fed loan officer survey does suggest that credit is available for creditworthy borrowers (the ones that actually don't need the debt.), so it hardly seems likely that we have a credit event on our hands.† If there is a risk, it is probably on the fiscal front an that policymakers pull off some sort of 1937-38 stunt (the FDR recession) or the premature sales tax hike in Japan in 1997-98 which sent the economy back into a tailspin. If in fact we avoid a fiscal mistake, then the risks of a recession go down sharply (some Fed district banks peg the odds at a mere 6%) and what we are left with is what we have had all along, which is a muddle-through post-bubble deleveraging economy... Policymakers will tighten fiscal policy and raise taxes in an effort to address budget deficit issues.† However, if they do this when the economy is weak, they risk pushing the economy right into recession, which would actually decrease tax revenues and cause budget deficits to rise. Here's a chart from Nomura's Richard Koo that Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal frequently references to demonstrate this point. Rosenberg refers to the Hashimoto fiscal reform.† As you can see, tightening actually causes revenues to fall and deficits to expand: 
Proud Princeton alumna Susan A. Patton ‚Äî the president of the class of 1977 ‚Äî has a message for the women of Princeton today: Find your husband now, before you are old and all of the elite men have settled for dumb, pretty girls.¬† Seriously. In an editorial published in today's Daily Princetonian, Patton writes:¬† Forget about having it all, or not having it all, leaning in or leaning out ‚Äî here‚Äôs what you really need to know that nobody is telling you... ‚Ä¶For most of you, the cornerstone of your future and happiness will be inextricably linked to the man you marry, and you will never again have this concentration of men who are worthy of you. Unsurprisingly, Patton's well-intended, yet mindblowingly retro, "advice" has caused quite a stir, both for its regressive understanding of male-female relationships and its preposterous Ivy League elitism.¬† Patton writes:¬† I am the mother of two sons who are both Princetonians. My older son had the good judgment and great fortune to marry a classmate of his, but he could have married anyone. My younger son is a junior and the universe of women he can marry is limitless. Men regularly marry women who are younger, less intelligent, less educated. It‚Äôs amazing how forgiving men can be about a woman‚Äôs lack of erudition, if she is exceptionally pretty. Smart women can‚Äôt (shouldn‚Äôt) marry men who aren‚Äôt at least their intellectual equal. As Princeton women, we have almost priced ourselves out of the market. Simply put, there is a very limited population of men who are as smart or smarter than we are. And I say again ‚Äî you will never again be surrounded by this concentration of men who are worthy of you. Of course, once you graduate, you will meet men who are your intellectual equal ‚Äî just not that many of them. And, you could choose to marry a man who has other things to recommend him besides a soaring intellect. But ultimately, it will frustrate you to be with a man who just isn‚Äôt as smart as you. And for female Princeton seniors, Patton has one more "truth" that no one is talking about:¬† As freshman women, you have four classes of men to choose from. Every year, you lose the men in the senior class, and you become older than the class of incoming freshman men. So, by the time you are a senior, you basically have only the men in your own class to choose from, and frankly, they now have four classes of women to choose from. Maybe you should have been a little nicer to these guys when you were freshmen? *Editor's note: An earlier version of this post had the full text of the editorial. Unfortunately, the editorial is property of the Daily Princetonian.¬†
WikipediaWeeks after it was rumored to be headed for market, we now know that late investor Martin Zweig's legendary penthouse apartment atop the Pierre in New York City will be listed for $125 million, the New York Times' Robin Finn reports. While the listing has yet to appear, the $125 million price tag makes it the most expensive home for sale in New York City. It narrowly beats a midtown apartment owned by Steve Cohen, which the SAC honcho is reportedly selling for $115 million. So what does $125 million buy you at the fabled hotel? According to Finn, the penthouse is "a triplex confection graced by a grand black-marble staircase, arched cathedral windows that replicate a Versailles chapel, 23-foot ceilings, and fireplaces embraced by mantels designed in the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries." It has five bedrooms and six bathrooms, 360-degree views of Manhattan, and multiple terraces, a rarity in Manhattan real estate. Zweig, a†stock investor,†investment advisor,†and financial analyst, died in February. He paid $21.5 million for the penthouse back in 1999, setting a real estate record at the time. He tried†ó†but failed†ó†to sell it for $70 million several years ago, according to Curbed NY. The New York Times has some photos of the apartment's interior; you can see them here.†Elizabeth Lee Sample, Brenda S. Powers, and Serena Boardman of Sothebys International Realty have the listing. Ex-Citigroup CEO†Sandy Weill's penthouse at 15 Central Park West†sold last year for a record $88 million.
Most investors understand and appreciate the value of dividends, which were responsible for 42 percent of stock market returns since 1930. However, investors often overlook or underappreciate the cash returned by companies in the form of stock buybacks, an action that effectively increases each shareholders claim on a company. NYU finance professor Aswath Damodaran put together this chart that translates the size of annual aggregate dividends and buybacks into S&amp;P 500 units and percentage points. "While there are some strict value investors who believe that dividends are qualitatively better than buybacks, because they are less volatile, the aggregate amount returned by US companies in buybacks is too large to be ignored," writes Damodaran on his blog. "Over the last decade, buybacks have been more volatile than dividends but the bulk of the cash flows returned to stockholders has come in buybacks." Musing on Markets
That's the recommendation from Jack M. Guttentag, an emeritus finance professor at The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.  On his website, The Mortgage Professor, he says homeowners old enough to have a reverse mortgage -- 62 or older -- should think about getting a reverse mortgage credit line now, even if they won't use the money for years. Reason: Today's low interest rates make reverse mortgages something of a bargain, allowing you to borrow more if you lock in before rates rise.A reverse mortgage is a loan against the homeowner's equity, which is the current value of the home minus any debt against it, such as a mortgage or home equity loan. Like an ordinary mortgage, the reverse loan charges interest, but the borrower makes no monthly payments. Instead, the debt, plus the gradually growing interest charges, are paid off when the borrower moves permanently, sells the home or dies. The debt can never exceed the proceeds of the home sale, so the reverse mortgage debt does not endanger the borrower's other assets. The most common type of reverse mortgage is the federally backed Home Equity Conversion Mortgage. Because there's no telling how large the borrower's debt could grow, reverse loans manage the lender's risk by providing less than 100% of the homeowner's equity at the time the loan is approved.  A key factor in this calculation is the "expected interest rate." The lower it is, the more the homeowner can borrow, and rates are quite low today."For example, at an expected rate of 4 percent, which has been a common rate during 2013, a senior of 62 with a home worth $300,000 can draw an initial credit line of about $174,000," Guttentag says."At an expected rate of 6 percent, the line drops to $140,000, and at 10 percent it falls to $54,000." In other words, get a reverse mortgage now and you can borrow more than if you wait until rates rise, as most experts expect over the next few years. But wait, there's more -- a second interest rate called the "accrual rate." Like the interest rate on a regular mortgage, it is the rate charged against the loan balance. If you use the reverse mortgage to borrow a lump sum, it is a fixed rate for the life of the loan. If you take out a line of credit to draw on in the future, or select a regular monthly payment, the accrual rate is adjustable -- it will rise or fall as market conditions change.A rising rate need not be a concern if you expect to keep the reverse mortgage for the rest of your life, because you don't have to make payments no matter how high the rate goes. (Of course, a higher rate would drive up your interest costs, cutting deeper into any home equity you might hope to leave your heirs.) But the accrual rate has another function. Over time, the home presumably becomes more valuable, and therefore any unused portion of the borrower's credit line grows as the years go by. The accrual rate is used to determine how fast the credit line grows. The higher the rate, the bigger the credit line.That means the homeowner who does not need to take cash out of the home right now can use today's low expected interest rate to get the largest possible line of credit to start with, and then, if the accrual rate goes up as expected, the borrower will see the credit line grow. The ideal strategy, Guttentag says, is to hold off drawing against the credit line for as long as possible. That way you could remain free of debt, but would have a rainy day fund that could be much larger by the time you need it.
Cadillac has an aggressive plan for China, where it wants to triple its sales by 2015. But it has an unusual challenge to deal with. The brand "is almost too aspirational," says Cadillac Global Marketing Director Jim Vurpillat: Chinese car shoppers don't realize they can afford the cars, so they don't buy them. The good news, Vurpillat told Business Insider, is that Cadillac's brand image is still very strong in China, unlike in the US, where the common view is of a once iconic mark that lost its edge long ago.  GM's plan for China involves moving production to the country, to avoid the costs of importing its cars. It will open about 100 new dealerships and has hired Brad Pitt to hawk its products, advertising its sedans as luxury products within reach. So far, it seems to be working: Cadillac logged a record 2,295 sales in China in February, and reported an 8.1 percent increase (on an annual basis) in demand for its vehicles. Sales have been good in the US too. Brand sales are up 32 percent in 2013, and 70 percent of people who buy the new ATS ‚Äî the sedan designed to win over new owners ‚Äî have never owned a Cadillac.
BESTST0RYWINS / YouTubeMorgan Stanley's Gerard MinackThe S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high yesterday. However, the jaw-dropping world-wide bull market belies the expectations for growth in global GDP and stock market earnings. "The 25% rally in global equities from last June seems to be driven by a growing conviction that the worst is over and tail risks are fading," wrote Morgan Stanley's Gerard Minack in a research note last week. "This, so far, is not about pricing in a notably stronger economic or earnings outlook." In other words, the likelihood of worst-case scenarios is falling. Minack provided these two charts to show the trajectory of GDP and earnings expectations.¬† Notice the downward slopes.¬† Except for Japanese GDP, expectations for everything have been deteriorating.¬† Very ugly. Gerard Minack, Morgan Stanley
Flickr / ucumariThe S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high yesterday. And this comes as profit growth expectations continue to come down. "Profits are the mother's milk of stocks," says CNBC's Larry Kudlow famously.† And most experts agree with him. When stocks rise as earnings fall, this is called multiple expansion.† In other words, the price-earnings ratio is expanding.† In other words, stocks are getting more expensive. Many of the stock market bears have centered their investment theses based on deteriorating fundamentals (i.e. profits and profit expectations coming down).† And while these bears have been right about profits weakening, many didn't expect investors to pay an increasing premium for stocks. "Why has the P/E expanded?" asked Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker rhetorically.† "Most likely, this reflects central banksí aggressive liquidity injections, which have translated into an increasing conviction among investors that major tail risks have been indefinitely removed. The growing reality that there are limited investment opportunities outside of equities has fueled stronger inflows into equity markets in some regions and driven expectations of an even more substantial rotation." Earlier this month, Parker was forced to raise his year-end target on the S&amp;P 500 to 1,600 because his multiple assumption was too conservative. Canaccord Genuity's Tony Dwyer, the most bullish strategist on Wall Street, recently cranked up his year-end target on the S&amp;P 500 to 1,760 largely on the assumption of a high multiple. Here's FactSet's John Butters discussing this phenomenon: "In recent quarters, it has not been unusual for the value of the index to increase at the same time analysts are trimming earnings estimates for the same quarter. In fact, it has occurred in 10 of the past 20 quarters (including Q1 2013). During these ten quarters, the average decrease in the bottom-up EPS has been 2.9%, while the average increase in the value of the index has been 9.5%. These percentages are actually very similar to the percentage decline in EPS (-3.1%) and percentage improvement in the value of the index (9.6%) recorded for Q1 2013." Here's a chart from FactSet showing how stocks rose as earnings expectations fell.† This certainly has the bears ripping their hair out: FactSet

There were no surprises in the basic thrust of the strategy ñ a structural shift in Chinaís investment- and export-led growth model toward a more balanced consumer-based and services-led economy. The transformation reflects both necessity and design. It is necessary because persistently weak global growth is unlikely to provide the solid external demand for Chinese exports that it once did. But it is also essential, because Chinaís new leadership seems determined to come to grips with a vast array of internal imbalances that threaten the environment, promote destabilizing income inequality, and exacerbate regional disparities. The strategic shift is also a deliberate effort by Chinese policymakers to avoid the dreaded ìmiddle-income trapî ñ a mid-stage slowdown that has ensnared most emerging economies when†per capita†income nears the $17,000 threshold (in constant international prices). Developing economies that maintain their old growth models for too long fall into it, and China probably will hit the threshold in 3-5 years. Three insights from this yearís China Development Forum deepened my confidence that a major structural transformation is now at hand that will enable China to avoid the middle-income trap. First, a well-articulated urbanization strategy has emerged as a key pillar of consumer-led rebalancing. This was emphasized by Chinaís new senior leaders ñ Executive Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli and Premier Li Keqiang ñ in the Forumís opening and closing remarks, and considerable detail was provided in many of the working sessions. Urbanization is a building block for consumption, because it provides powerful leverage to Chinese householdsí purchasing power. Urban workersí†per capita†income is more than three times higher than that of their counterparts in the countryside. The urban share of the Chinese population reached 52.6% in 2012 ñ up nearly three-fold from 18% in 1980, and is expected to rise toward 70% by 2030. If ongoing urbanization can be coupled with job creation ñ a distinct possibility in light of Chinaís emphasis on developing its embryonic labor-intensive services sector ñ the outlook for household-income growth is quite encouraging. The pace of urbanization should dispel Western doubts stemming from concerns over so-called ghost cities and chronic over-investment. According to†research by McKinsey &amp; Company, with the annual influx of new urban residents totaling 15-20 million, China will need more than 220 large cities (at least one million people) by 2030, up from 125 in 2010. Moreover, because urbanization is a capital-intensive endeavor and Chinaís capital stock per worker ñ a key driver of productivity growth ñ is still only 13% of the levels in the United States and Japan, China has good reason to remain a high-investment economy for years to come. What is new today is the focus on urbanizationís negative externalities ñ especially the thorny issues of land confiscation and environmental degradation. A well-developed ìeco-cityî framework was presented at this yearís Forum to counter both concerns, and features incentives promoting a new urbanization model that stresses compact land usage, mixed modes of local transportation, lighter building materials, and non-carbon energy sources. The second insight from the 2013 China Development Forum is the new governmentís focus on strengthening the social safety net as a pillar of a modern consumer society. In particular, owing to the†hukou†(Chinaís antiquated household registration system), access to public services and benefits is not portable. As a result, migrant workers ñ an underclass numbering roughly 160 million ñ remain shut out of government-supported health care, education, and social security. Holes in the social safety net have led to high and rising levels of precautionary saving ñ driving a wedge between increases in labor income and any impetus to discretionary purchasing power. Significantly, there were strong hints from senior Chinese leaders at the Forum that†hukou†reform is now under active consideration. While†that†would be welcome, such efforts need to be accompanied by an expansion of benefits. Chinaís retirement system has only about $430 billion of assets under management (national and local government social security and private-sector pensions). I pressed newly appointed Finance Minister Lou Jiwei on this point, suggesting that China deploy some of its excess foreign-exchange reserves to fund such an effort ñ the same tactic used to provide a $200 billion start-up injection for the China Investment Corporation, the sovereign wealth fund that he ran for the previous five and a half years. Unfortunately, he did not favor this suggestion. The final ñ and possibly most important ñ insight that I took away from the Forum concerned the quality of Chinaís new leaders. From President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang on down, Chinaís new leadership team is quite sophisticated in terms of analytics, risk assessment, scenario modeling, and devising innovative solutions to tough problems. Moreover, under the organizational umbrella of the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) ñ the latter-day version of the old central planning apparatus ñ China has marshaled considerable resources into the formulation of a comprehensive and well-thought-out economic strategy. But, in the end, it takes more than strong policy and analytical skills to deal with tough economic challenges. We have seen unfortunate examples of that repeatedly in the West in recent years, and there are no guarantees that Chinaís newly installed leaders will avoid comparable pitfalls. Vision and strategy are vital for realizing the ìChina Dream,î as the countryís new leaders are now calling it. But it will take courage and sheer determination to tackle what is perhaps the biggest obstacle of all ñ resistance from deeply entrenched local and provincial power blocs. On this critical front, strong words must be accompanied by bold action.
Getty ImagesThe SEC alleges former SAC Capital trader Michael Steinberg booked more than $3 million in profits on insider information he received regarding Dell and Nvidia earnings reports. The agency also says Steinberg passed along the information to another portfolio manager. Steinberg was arrested this morning. The SEC got its hands on the following email sent by†Jon Horvath, an analyst who reported to Steinberg at Sigma Capital. Horvath himself has been charged. From the agency: Horvath sent an e-mail to the other portfolio manager and copied Steinberg on the message. The e-mail stated: ìI have a 2nd hand read from someone at the company ñ this is 3rd quarter I have gotten this read from them and it has been very good in the last quarters.† They are seeing GMs miss by 50-80 [basis points] due to poor mix, [operating expenses] in-line and a little revenue upside netting out to an [earnings per share] miss. . . . Please keep to yourself as obviously not well known.î† The SEC alleges that two minutes later, Steinberg chimed in, ìYes, normally we would never divulge data like this, so please be discreet.î Earlier this month, SAC affiliate CR Intrinsic†Investors LLC†agreed to pay the largest-ever insider trading settlement, $600 million.
iTunes screenshotWall Streeters, we know your lives revolve around time. Days in the office swing between dramatic periods of having to save time and waste time. So in an attempt to help you survive it all, we've picked a bunch of apps for making it and killing it. We've also tried to forego the typical news apps and what-not for apps that suit your every day life. Like for when you have to wake up refreshed after 4 hours of sleep or when you need to make a presentation... yesterday. Normal, banker things.
In the wake of improving economic data, including today's strong personal income and spending report, Deutsche Bank's Chief U.S. Economist Joe LaVorgna tweeted that the economy may be growing at a 4 percent rate. Many economists like PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian and ECRI's Lakshman Achuthan have argued that the post-financial crisis U.S. economy would grow at below trend, which is around 3 percent, for years. Here's LaVorgna's tweet: The February #income and #consumption data were solid especially the latter. A 4% q1 GDP is a possibility
APPelinka playing at Michigan in 1992The latest reading of consumer confidence is encouraging. The University of Michigan confidence index jumped to 78.6 in March from a preliminary reading of 71.8. Economists were looking for a reading of 72.6. Today's report effectively nullifies the preliminary report. In case you forgot, economists initially expected a March reading of 78.0, down from 77.6 in February.
Editor's note: The following is a response from Michalis Persianis, economics editor at kathimerini.gr, to Paul Krugman's recent column arguing why Cyprus would benefit from leaving the Eurozone. We are grateful for granting us permission to publish it.¬† Much like the the¬†last time I¬†disagreed with Krugman,¬†disagreement is of the ‚Äúyes, but‚Äù variety. The last time, he was telling off austerity, but I doubt he had in mind economies in which (shockingly wasteful) state spending reaches 54% of GDP. This is taxes and spending on a very long list of things like the 42 architects employed for 30 years -with regular pay hikes and promotions- to build dams. We were done building dams 20 years ago. Likewise, everything he says about Cypexit, stands correct on its face.¬†There is no doubt that the Euro translates to deep recession for Cyprus, especially after the horrific Eurogroup idea to propose losses on depositors in order to stave off a banking crisis. I‚Äôve wondered before if this was sheer stupidity or bad intentions. But then again, Krugman suggests that ‚Äúleaving the euro, and letting the new currency fall sharply, would greatly accelerate‚Ä¶rebuilding.‚Äù¬† Well, it does, usually. Except, there are a few concerns in the case of Cyprus. All of Cyprus‚Äô physical inputs are imported. Everything; from feed to steel and from fertilizers to computers. Raw materials are imported. Intermediary goods are imported. Capital goods also imported. This is an island economy with a GDP smaller than Vermont and a population 200.000 short of a million. So, when I say, ‚Äúimported‚Äù, I mean ‚Äúclose to 100%‚Äù. ¬†While the primary surplus that Krugman mentions is a 2013 projection unlikely to materialize (again), the trade deficit spikes with GDP growth and declines rapidly with recessions. This is not unusual, and Krugman would say that it reflects FDI flows as well. But a closer look reflects the extreme dependence on imported factors of production. This changes the entire picture and makes one wonder about the level of inflation under a new currency, as well of the impact that this would have. All of the obvious concerns about a nascent currency borne out of crisis are suddenly multiplied into a nightmare. In fact, as if all of this weren‚Äôt enough, note that Cyprus is also 100% dependent on energy imports. Gas prices have been rising at a dizzying pace in the last two years, although from a lower starting point than in most other countries. Electricity is another issue ‚Äìprices accurately reflect how profoundly reckless Cyprus has been in managing its infrastructure: We managed to blow up our main electricity plant by storing munitions outdoors, nearby. Ever been in Cyprus in the Summer? Krugman notes that Cyprus has two main exports- tourism and banking services. And, he is right in saying that banking was wiped out overnight, at least as export. On the other hand, the main question about tourism isn‚Äôt so much whether a devaluation will help the industry; of course it will. The question, though, is more basic than that: After the glorious 1980s, can the industry be revived? One wonders, after the sun-sea-and-sex tourist wave 30 years ago, what the prospects are for Cypriot tourism. With a few bright and special exceptions, the industry has been in a steady wane since the early 1990s. Already, its share of the GDP has declined significantly. But more importantly, lower-end hotels have been sitting idle for years. Upper-end hotels have been lingering between high debts on the one hand, and declining quality on the other. Part of the explanation why this happened, is that most hotel owners were too busy frantically building mansions for British retirees- and in the process unwisely taking massive loans that the banks unwisely extended to them. This was a traditional banking fumble, where real estate loans were based on collateral: The real estate development itself. But that‚Äôs another story. The problem with Cyprus tourism is that supply is too massive and quality is too low. What it needs is fewer and better hotels. Krugman makes a reasonable point and he had no way I can think of to examine the industry. Besides, this is not macroscopic analysis; this is formerly five-star hotels with chipped ceilings and decaying swimming pools. The ones making profits in the last years are the exception. The competition ‚ÄìEgypt, Israel, Turkey, Greece- have more and better hotels. Oh, and more and cheaper flights, not to mention better overall service. So even this hope is far from likely to come to anything. All of this, of course, comes on top of the traditional concerns about currency devaluation. And it comes with none of the perks. In fact, the very vibe in the international markets right now makes the Central Bank‚Äôs total reserves a very much relevant issue: A total of 19 billion euro, not enough to squeeze a single bear, let alone hold off for anything resembling an attack on the new currency. So Cyprus is one of those places that will have to slug it out. And slug it out we will. There are lots of good ideas, even investor interest, for new industries, for better and more orthodox government action and for ways to give growth a nudge. Above all, a new currency would be the easy way out. And, by now, we Cypriots ought to know pretty well where the easy way leads after a while.
Sotheby's InternationalFormer mortgage broker Franklyn de Marco is selling his unbelievable 7-bedroom lakefront Palm Beach home for $13.9 million, the WSJ reports. That means we get to look at it ‚Äî The pool, the awesome geometric layout, the wet bar/man cave, the foyer, the dock... We could go on, but you should just take a look. Betsy Fry of Sotheby's International has the listing.
CNBCThe U.S. markets are closed today in observance of Good Friday. However, some people attribute the annual closure to some mythical black Friday crash. To make matters more confusing, the markets actually stayed open for three Good Fridays, and no knows why. UBS's Art Cashin wrote about the Good Friday mystery earlier this week: Seasonal Questions Pop Up Again - This, as you may have noticed, is a four day week.¬† That‚Äôs because U.S. equity markets are going to be closed for Good Friday.¬† Every year, the Good Friday close produces lots of erroneous theories about why we close. So, once again, we offer the explanation we wrote a few years back: The Myth Of The Crash That Caused The Stock Market To Close On Good Friday ‚Äì In the nearly five decades that I‚Äôve been in Wall Street, each Easter season sees the re-blooming of an old ‚Äì and erroneous ‚Äì myth. That myth contends that the NYSE opened on a Good Friday and the terrible Black Friday crash occurred.¬† Thus, chastened and shaken, the Governors vowed never to open on a Good Friday again.¬† It never happened. Thanks to the nice folks in the NYSE archives we were able to establish a few facts.¬† Records clearly show the NYSE closed on Good Friday as far back as 1864.¬† Before 1864 records on the subject are a bit harder to find but there is high likelihood that the Exchange closed on Good Friday all the way back to 1793.¬† (It was founded on May 17th, 1792 so Good Friday would have already passed that year.) There was a famous and terrible Black Friday crash in Wall Street but it was primarily in the gold market.¬† It came about when the ‚Äúcorner‚Äù on gold that Jay Gould and Jim Fisk had constructed (with some help from President Grant‚Äôs brother-in-law), collapsed.¬† That occurred on September 24th, 1869, a little late in the year for Good Friday.¬† You will also note from the search of the records that the NYSE was closing on Good Friday at least five years earlier and probably, much, much longer. Lastly, for some unexplained reason, the NYSE stayed open on three Good Fridays.¬† On April 8, 1898, the Dow closed down a half point.¬† That‚Äôs hardly a crash.¬† On the other two, April 13th, 1906 (a Friday the 13th) and March 29th, 1907, the Dow actually rose. I hope that puts the myth to bed. If you know why markets stayed open on those three days, let us know.
This time it‚Äôs Citigroup that is once again concocting ‚Äúsynthetic‚Äù securities, like those that had wreaked havoc five years ago. And once again, it‚Äôs using them to shuffle off risks through the filters of Wall Street to people who might never know. What bubbled to the surface is that Citigroup is selling synthetic securities that yield 13% to 15% annually‚Äîsynthetic because they‚Äôre based on credit derivatives. Apparently, Citi has a bunch of shipping loans on its books, and it‚Äôs trying to protect itself against default. In return for succulent interest payments, investors will take on some of the risks of these loans. The first deal of this type was negotiated privately with Blackstone Group and closed last December. This second deal will be open to a broader group of institutional investors. Soon, similar synthetic securities will be offered to the treasurers of small towns in Norway. But shipping loans are a doozy. After its bubble, the shipping industry fell into a deep crisis. It‚Äôs such a problem that Andreas Dombret, member of the Executive Board of the Bundesbank, listed it as one of the four risks to overall financial stability in Germany‚Äîin Hamburg alone, there were over 120 shipping companies. He fingered two causes: shipping rates that had plunged during the Financial Crisis and never recovered, and continued overbuilding of ships of ever larger sizes, driven by ‚Äúcheaply available financial means,‚Äù a direct reference to the easy money handed out by central banks. And then he waded into the bloodbath in Germany: retail funds that blew up and were shuttered, banks whose shipping portfolios suffered heavy hits, an industry that was breaking down.... Capital destruction, the inevitable consequence of central-bank passion to create bubbles. Now, the Bundesbank was looking at it from a ‚Äúbroader perspective,‚Äù he said, with an eye ‚Äúon the stability of the entire financial system.‚Äù That was mid-February. Two weeks ago, the largest ship-financing bank in the world, HSH Nordbank, which had already been bailed out in 2008, cratered and was bailed out again by its two main owners, the states of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein. So, with the smell of putrefaction wafting from Citi‚Äôs shipping-loan closets, it‚Äôs time to sell high-yield derivatives based on them. If hedge funds buy them, fine. Presumably, they understand the risks. But these products may end up in funds favored by state and municipal retirement systems. They‚Äôre starved for yield and are chasing it every chance they get in this zero-yield environment. And ‚Äúalternative investments‚Äù are hot. So, banking crap would be shifted once again to retirees‚Äîwith a satisfied nod from the Fed. The Fed‚Äôs drunken passion to print has led to the most gargantuan credit bubble ever, a farmland bubble, commodity bubbles, equity bubbles, heck, even a new housing bubble as hot money buys up billions of dollars in homes and now can‚Äôt rent them out [a debacle that I wrote about in.... Housing Bubble II: But This Time It‚Äôs¬†Different]. It was never intended to fix the damage that the Financial Crisis had done to the real economy‚Äîas experienced by people, and not as measured by the Dow which is setting new highs. Some of these issues are very basic. For example, income. Median household income in February was $51,404 (Sentier Research), down $590 on an inflation-adjusted basis, or 1.1%, from January. Culprit: the red-hot 0.7% increase in consumer prices that month. It wasn‚Äôt a fluke but part of an insidious long-term trend. Adjusted for inflation, median household income in February was: That year, median household income, expressed in February 2013 dollars, was $56,101! If it where this high today, households could spend more and save more, and they‚Äôd be more optimistic and enthusiastic, and the real economy would be humming along at a better clip. Throughout these years, nominal wages have crept up just enough to bamboozle people into thinking that maybe this time it would be different, that this time they could actually buy more with the increased income, only to be whacked again by inflation. Their deteriorating circumstances shed a harsh light on the Fed-inspired craziness on Wall Street‚Äîand an even harsher light on the Fed‚Äôs persistent refusal to see it, though it‚Äôs happening right before their eyes. The US-centric balance of economic power has been destabilized by the crumbling of EU welfare states and the rise of the state-sponsored capitalist BRICS, eager to seize the opportunity to attack the dollar‚Äôs preeminence. And so the inevitable is waiting to happen. Read.... ¬†The Dollar‚Äôs Death As Reserve¬†Currency
Flickr / noahwesleyThe Bureau of Economic Analysis just published the February reading of personal income and spending, and the numbers were strong. Income climbed by 1.1 percent, which was higher than the 0.8 percent expected. Spending rose by 0.7 percent, which was a tad higher than the 0.6 percent gain expected. The personal savings rate rebounded to 2.6 percent from 2.2 percent in January. Click Here For LIVE Updates &gt; U.S. economic data has improved significantly in recent months, which is impressive considering the new payroll tax cuts, sequestration federal budget cuts, and uncertainty about what Washington may or may not cut next. Last month's personal income and spending report revealed that the resilience in personal consumption was largely due to a drop in the personal savings rate (i.e. people spent more than they earned). In a recent blog post titled "The Most Important US Economic Number Now," BlackRock's Russ Koesterich warns that falling savings rates is not sustainable. Here's an excerpt: But investors wondering about the outlook going forward for the US economy will want to watch one economic number in particular: February‚Äôs personal income figure, which is scheduled for release on March 29th. Why is this number so important? While consumer resilience to the tax increase can partly be attributed to a stronger labor market, lower savings and low interest rates have also cushioned consumption. For instance, the US personal savings rate has been heading lower for most of the past four years and it plunged to 2.4% in January, the lowest level since late 2007. But neither low interest rates nor low savings are likely to prove sustainable over the long term. The Federal Reserve is likely to eventually raise rates and without faster personal income growth, consumers are likely to run out of savings, especially considering the massive amount of debt they are still unwinding. In other words, if consumption and the broader economy are to remain resilient going forward in the face of consumer deleveraging, they will need to be supported by an improving labor market leading to faster personal income growth. Koesterich warned that if we don't see a pickup in personal income, then the economy could hit a speed bump in the second quarter.

REUTERS/Kacper PempelThe newest wave of cyberattacks targeting U.S. banks ‚Äî which have cost millions of dollars since September ‚Äî seem bent on destruction rather than espionage, Nicole Perlroth and David Sanger of The New York Times report. ‚ÄúThe attacks have changed from espionage to destruction,‚Äù said Alan Paller, director of research at the SANS Institute, a cybersecurity training organization. ‚ÄúNations are actively testing how far they can go before we will respond.‚Äù Security experts believe that the hackers ‚Äî who took down American Express' website on Thursday and JP Morgan's earlier this month ‚Äî are the same ones that paralyzed several bank websites over the past six months. Those attacks were blamed on¬†the Qassam Cyber Fighters, a group of¬†Iranian hackers which¬†a new denial of service (DDOS) attack¬†called "itsoknoproblembro" to flood servers (with sustained traffic peaking at 70 Gbps). The Times also cites a "cyber-rampage" ‚Äî also blamed on Iran ‚Äî that targeted Saudi Aramco,¬†the world‚Äôs largest oil producer, in October. In that case the hackers not only¬†erased data on 30,000 Aramco computers, but also replaced the data with an image of a burning American flag. Experts told the Times that upstarts such as¬†North Korea and Iran are more focused on destroying data than stealing it (like China does). The strange thing about the Times report is that it never explicitly states that U.S. banks lost data ‚Äî American Express said there was no customer data was "compromised"¬†‚Äî and yet the article is about cyberattacks "meant to destroy, not just disrupt."
A couple of years ago I wrote that a fair target for when the Oil choke collar would start to loosen was this year, i.e., 2013. The recent evidence is that the loosening is indeed starting. I've been meaning to write a long post on this, but haven't had the time. Rather than keep putting it off indefinitely, let me dole it out in little bits.  The most important information is that the price of gas has been declining on an annual basis since its peak of $4.25 in 2008. Specifically, its peak in 2011 was less than the peak in 2008. The peak in 2012 was less than 2011, and the peak so far this year is less than in 2012 (h/t gasbuddy): The Bonddad Blog The news is even better when we consider the prices of gas as a share of average earnings. The following graph divides the price of a gallon of gas by average hourly earnings for nonsupervisory workers to give us the "real" gas price for Joe Sixpack: The Bonddad Blog While gas prices are still higher than they were before the 2008-09 recession, each successive peak has been less, meaning that even at its last couple of peaks, it has taken less and less of a bite out of the average consumer's wallet.  Another way to look at the same data is to calculate real, inflation adjusted wages with (red line) and without (blue line) the effect of gas prices, which is what the next graph does: The Bonddad Blog Here's the same data measured on a Year-over-year basis: The Bonddad Blog Notice that increasing gas prices have been the largest factor in plummeting YoY real wage growth. Secondly, it looks like that declining trend has bottomed, and in the last couple of months has actually turned positive YoY.  The loosening of the Oil choke collar, enabling Americans to save more, or spend more on other goods, may be the sleeper economic story of this year. There's much more to the story, and I'll follow up in further posts.
Instagram/torclausenA national survey found 301,874 "zombie" properties dotting the U.S. landscape in which homeowners in foreclosure have moved out, leaving vacant property susceptible to vandalism and degradation. Florida tops the list of zombie properties with 90,556 vacant homes in foreclosure, according to a foreclosure inventory released on Thursday by RealtyTrac, a real estate information company in Irvine, California. Illinois and California ranked a distant second and third with 31,668 and 28,821 zombie properties respectively on the list. The number of homes overall in foreclosure or bank-owned rose by nine percent to 1.5 million properties nationally in the first quarter of 2013 compared to a year ago, according to RealtyTrac. Another 10.9 million homeowners nationwide remain at risk because they owe more than their property is worth, according to company vice president Daren Blomquist. RealtyTrac for the first time analyzed data on zombie properties after a Reuters' special report in January examined the special problem of zombie titles, Blomquist said. Reuters revealed the plight of people who walked away from their homes not realizing that their names remained on the deed and that they were financially liable for taxes and other bills related to the abandoned property. In some cases, homeowners vacated after receiving a notice from the bank of a planned foreclosure sale, only to find out later the bank never followed through. Zombie properties can be easy to spot as they deteriorate into neighborhood eyesores and havens for criminal activity. While Florida leads in volume of zombie properties, Kentucky, with less than 1,000 zombie properties, leads in percentage, with zombies representing 54 percent of its total foreclosure inventory, Blomquist said. Zombies in Washington, Indiana, Nevada and Oregon also constitute 50 percent or more of the properties in foreclosure, according to the report. Blomquist said the number of zombie properties could be higher than represented in the RealtyTrac report, which used a conservative methodology. In Florida, for example, the company does not count any property that has been in foreclosure longer than the state average of 853 days and for which there has been no significant recent activity. The report also does not take into account cases in which a bank chose not to follow through on a foreclosure judgment, leaving the property in limbo. Blomquist said the long average time to complete a foreclosure case in Florida likely contributes to the high number of zombie properties, as people give up hope over time and walk away. Blomquist said the findings overall show a housing recovery is under way but not yet deeply rooted. "I think the empty foreclosures is less of a long-term threat but it certainly is affecting individual communities and neighborhoods," Blomquist said. According to the Reuters special report, municipalities are left to deal with the mess when people move out after receiving a notice of a planned foreclosure sale that the bank then cancels. Some spend public funds on securing, cleaning and stabilizing houses that generate no tax revenue. Others let the houses rot. Unsuspecting homeowners have had their wages garnished, their credit destroyed and their tax refunds seized. They've opened their mail to find bills for back taxes, graffiti-scrubbing services, demolition crews, trash removal, gutter repair, exterior cleaning and lawn clipping. In some cities, people with zombie titles can be sentenced to probation, with the threat of jail if they don't bring their houses into compliance. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Reuters/ Steve MarcusFrom WSJ, another arrest at Steve Cohen's embattled SAC Capital: Michael Steinberg, 40 years old, was led out of his building on New York's Park Avenue in handcuffs around 6 a.m. Mr. Steinberg has worked at Stamford, Conn.-based SAC since 1997 and at its Sigma Capital Management unit in New York since 2003, dealing closely with SAC's billionaire founder Steven A. Cohen. Details of the charges are expected to become public later Friday. Steinberg is said to be the most senior trader arrested. A number of traders at the fund have been arrested relating to insider trading, although founder and chief Steve Cohen has never implicated in anything himself. Steinberg's lawyer has said he has done nothing wrong We'll have more as details develop.
North Korea is making more noise. Following the deployment of U.S. B-2s to South Korea, North Korean President Kim Jong-un has ordered his military to be on alert for a strike against the US. As part of the warning, North Korea has published two new images in a local paper (via Reuters) and what people are noticing is the background, which appear to show a missile strike plan on the US. In this first one, the map of the U.S. is most vivid. Here's the full picture. REUTERS/KCNA Then if you zoom in above the general's head (as NKNews.org points out) you can see a map of the U.S. with lines coming into it (implying lines of attack). The text apparently reads "U.S. Mainland Strike Plan" (which is not subtle). The four cities that are targeted are Austin, San Diego, Honolulu, and Washington DC. REUTERS/KCNA The second photo is a bit less juicy, although it does show Kim Jong-un using an iMac. REUTERS/KCNA A key thing as NKNews.org points out is that the photos were released in a domestic workers paper, implying that the images are for internal consumption, rather than a real threat.
Lockheed MartinAlthough it's Good Friday and the markets are closed, we still have some US economic data coming up later, so that's a treat. Here's Calculated Risk's guide to what's coming up: At 8:30 AM ET, Personal Income and Outlays for February. The consensus is for a 0.9% increase in personal income in February (following the sharp increase in December due to some people taking income early to avoid higher taxes, and then the subsequent sharp decline in January), and for 0.6% increase in personal spending. And for the Core PCE price index to increase 0.2%. At 9:55 AM, Reuters/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index (final for March). The consensus is for a reading of 72.5. At 10:00 AM, the Regional and State Employment and Unemployment (Monthly) for February 2013 will be released.
HubbertPeakOn November 7, 1973, President Nixon addressed the nation with a serious warning: America was running out of oil. The Yom Kippur War had disrupted imports, and there weren't enough domestic supplies to plug the gap.¬† As a result, he said, we were going to have to make sacrifices:¬† ...not just here in Washington but in every home, in every community across this country. If each of us joins in this effort, joins with the spirit and the determination that have always graced the American character, then half the battle will already be won. The immediate crisis actually proved relatively short-lived: after spiking from about $4 to $10, oil prices settled around $13 until 1979, when the Iranian revolution hit. But the announcement raised from the dead a wild-eyed theory that'd been proposed a generation earlier: American oil production was soon going to peak.¬† In 1948, M. King Hubbert, a geophysicist for Shell, predicted that given estimates of the amount of crude in the ground and contemporary production rates, we were going to run out of oil by 1965. He articulated his findings eight years later in¬†a paper called "Nuclear Energy And The Fossil Fuels." By Hubbert's own admission, the study didn't get much reaction. But with Nixon's announcement, Hubbert's hypothesis began to look a lot more credible. For the next 40 years, "peak oil" became the boogeyman of the U.S. economy. Google ngrams nicely summarizes its hold over the psyche of many Americans.¬† Google ngrams¬† But today, it is probably safe to say we have slayed "peak oil" once and for all, thanks to the combination new shale oil and gas production techniques and declining fuel use. With the advent of fracking, U.S. oil production has climbed back to levels not seen since the mid-90s: Mark Perry/Carpe Diem¬† As we demonstrated, while an individual shale well doesn't last too long, there remain tens of thousands of wells to be dug. And these charts from Exxon ‚Äî a company you'd think would try to portray demand for its product as bullish ‚Äî show U.S. energy demand is on the wane. In the past week, "death of peak oil" talk has picked up dramatically. Last Friday, E&amp;E Publishing's Colin Sullivan published a piece wondering whether peak oil-ers have now joined the ranks of the flat earth-ers: When asked whether the trend is really that clear-cut, a slate of experts from universities and think tanks agreed: The peak-oil concept is increasingly out of date less than a decade after its proponents said global output would surely hit the halfway mark. And few of these sources came from what one would think of as traditionally right-leaning or "pro-energy" institutions. Then this week, Citi's Seth Kleinman and Ed Morse published a note saying "the end is nigh" for global oil demand growth: The structural bull market of the previous decade was a result of surging global oil demand and consistently disappointing non-OPEC supply growth, compounded by a collapse in Iraqi and Venezuelan production. The outlook for each of these factors has now reversed, reinforcing Citi Research‚Äôs long term view that by the end of the decade Brent prices are likely to hover¬†within a range of $80-90/bbl. As it turned out, the Boston Company actually published a report in February ¬†explicitly stating peak oil was "dead": ...an array of structural shifts in the Energy industry is¬†conspiring to insulate the global economy from any such dramatic increase in the price of oil. After decades of indifference, pivotal U.S. consumers have radically altered their consumption of petroleum and related products, moderating demand for the world‚Äôs largest market. Concurrently, heightened investments and technological breakthroughs have spurred an explosion in resources, as source rock has expanded the definition of ‚Äúfinite resource.‚Äù There remain misconceptions about what the end of peak oil means. It does not necessarily mean lower gas prices. Worldwide demand for oil continues to rise, which has kept prices elevated. And existing U.S. infrastructure has struggled to handle the shale boom, largely depriving everyone but Midwesterners of new American fuel. Plus, as Econbrowser's James Hamilton wrote¬†in a post called, "Dude, where's my cheap gas?", a lot of what gets counted in booming liquid fossil fuels production totals is natural ¬†gas liquids, which are used mostly by commercial trucks and petrochemical manufacturers.¬† It also does not mean U.S. energy independence. While demand is down, America still remains¬†the top oil consumer in the world by a wide margin.¬†As good as production has got, it will never be enough to meet our needs. Plus, the idea itself arguably helped nudge us toward more carbon-friendly fuels, as the FT's Izabella Kaminska writes: whilst the theory propagated the idea that we would soon reach peak production despite ongoing demand growth, causing an inevitable energy crisis, it seems instead to have predicted our journey towards self-imposed peak production and a well managed shift from one carbon source to another more efficient one. But the benefits of peak oil's death are still manifold, and aren't limited¬† to the U.S. Across the globe, rise of shale natural gas production has led businesses to switch oil for natural gas, Kleinman and Morse say CNG [compressed natural gas] and propane is set for exponential growth not only in markets such as Brazil, Egypt, Iran and India, but in Russia and the US as well. ¬† Meanwhile, local economies in places like Texas, North Dakota and Ohio are¬†seeing explosive ¬†growth.¬† Most importantly, while the price of oil may still go up, the rate will be nowhere near as rapid as once feared. And in a rebuke to the '70s, oil price volatility is probably over. As the Boston Company writes: ...recent advances in supply, multiple pressures curtailing demand and a flagging global economy provide us enough cover to maintain a reasonable supply-and-demand balance, thereby avoiding supply-shortage-related price spikes. Ironically, before proposing peak oil, M. King Hubbert gained some renown for his breakthroughs in underground fossil fuel flow studies, which according to his obituary " led to sweeping changes in the way oil and gas are produced." &gt; So unlike some of his acolytes, we'd imagine he'd probably be rather pleased to be disproved. ¬†
PYONGYANG, North Korea (AP) ó Thousands of North Koreans have turned out for a mass rally at the main square in Pyongyang in support of their leader's call to arms. Chanting "Death to the U.S. imperialists" and "Sweep away the U.S. aggressors," soldiers and students marched through Kim Il Sung Square in downtown Pyongyang on Friday during a 90-minute rally. State media reported early Friday that leader Kim Jong Un called an emergency military meeting to order the army's rocket unit to prepare to strike the U.S. and South Korea in case of a "reckless provocation" by Washington or Seoul. A full-blown North Korean attack is unlikely, though there are fears of a more localized conflict. Pyongyang has railed against the U.S. decision to send B-2 bombers for military drills with South Korea. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
MTAIn the world of markets, there's virtually nothing notable to say about anything. It was a very quiet night in Asia. And now all equities and futures are closed for Good Friday. Currency trading is going on still, but there's nothing really happening. It's all pretty much a snooze.
