Reuters/China DailyThe HSBC China Flash PMI hit an 11-month low of 47.7 in July. This showed that Chinese manufacturing contracted further and showed that the economic slowdown is deepening.† Bank of America's Ting Lu believes that this decline was in part driven by the pessimism surrounding the run up in interbank rates. "As the survey was conducted in mid-July, we believe the decline was likely due to the prolonged pessimistic sentiment as a result of the interbank turmoil in June and the uncertainty regarding the new government's growth floor (or even worry of an engineered hard landing as part of the so called ìLi Keqiang Economicsî). "Another factor could be the worsening exports (export growth in June was -3.1% yoy), as this HSBC survey is biased towards small exporters."† He also believes† that the contraction in manufacturing PMI could have bottomed, because Chinese premier Li Keqiang has promised a 7.5% growth floor for 2013, which should help improve market sentiment. This also means we're likely to see more supportive measures from policymakers.† Ting adds that "early signs of sequential recovery have emerged with some manufacturers restocking again."
The Shanghai Composite is down 1% after HSBC China flash PMI hit an 11-month low of 47.7 in July. Premier Li Keqiang helped calm markets on Monday by saying that 7.5% is the growth floor for 2013. But today's reports just add to concerns about the nation's economic slowdown. yahoo finance
AP The New York Times editorial board called on Anthony Weiner to drop out of the race for New York City mayor Tuesday night, in the wake of new revelations about his lewd online activities. From the scathing editorial: At some point, the full story of Anthony Weiner and his sexual relationships and texting habits will finally be told. In the meantime, the serially evasive Mr. Weiner should take his marital troubles and personal compulsions out of the public eye, away from cameras, off the Web and out of the race for mayor of New York City. For the Times, the timing matters. They said that Weiner misled the public by suggesting "that people should have known that his sexting was an unresolved problem well into 2012." The board said he has "already disqualified himself," and that his defense of working through a personal problem with¬†his wife, Huma Abedin, was lost when he re-entered the public sphere:¬† The couple deserved privacy as they worked through their problems ‚Äî and they had it, until they re-emerged in public life and Mr. Weiner decided he was a good fit to run New York City. Mr. Weiner and Ms. Abedin have been saying that his sexual behavior is not the public‚Äôs business. Well, it isn‚Äôt, until they make it our business by plunging into a political campaign. Democratic candidates¬†Sal Albanese and Bill de Blasio also called on Weiner to drop out of the race on Tuesday. Read the full editorial here &gt;
ReutersHSBC China Flash PMI fell to an 11-month low of 47.7 in July. This missed expectations for PMI to hold steady at 48.2. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. ‚ÄúThe lower reading of the July HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI suggests a continuous slowdown in manufacturing sectors thanks to weaker new orders and faster destocking," HSBC's chief China economist, Hongbin Qu said in a press release. "This adds more pressure on the labour market." He pointed out that today's disappointing PMI number showed that if Beijing wants to secure growth to "ensure stable employment," Chinese policymakers need to fine-tune their policies. With China's excess capacity woes, it is a positive sign tht the stock of finished goods contracted.¬† Right before the PMI release, we saw reports that China's industry minister is pushing for restructuring in the steel, aluminum, cement and other sectors that are burdened by excess capacity. Here's a look at how the sub-indices did: HSBC/Markit Economics And here's a look at how Chinese manufacturing has been doing: Markit Economics/HSBC Chinese economic data disappointed markets in June and caused many to panic about the economic slowdown as Q2 GDP came in at 7.5%. Premier Li Keqiang helped calm markets on Monday by saying that 7.5% is the growth floor for 2013. Today's Flash PMI report added to signs that the economy is slowing down.
REUTERS/Steve Marcus BIG report from WSJ. Reporters Jenny Strasburg and Michael Rothfeld say that prosecutors are set to file criminal charges against the hedge fund SAC Capital. The planned charges against SAC would mark the culmination of a yearslong probe into suspected securities fraud at one of the biggest, most successful hedge-fund firms in the country. The action is anticipated barring any last-minute pact with SAC or other reversal of government strategy, according to people familiar with the matter. As Strasburg and Rothfeld note, this represents the culmination of a long effort to get the firm on insider trading charges. The good news, according to the report, is that the charges are likely to be against the firm, not Cohen himself. Just last week, Cohen was sued by the SEC (a civil action) for failure to properly supervise his traders. The SEC sought to ban Cohen from investing money. At the time that weak charge was seen as something of a "win" for Cohen, although it was clear that he is planning a vigorous defense of that. Over the weekend, Cohen distributed a 46-page white paper internally explaining why the SEC's suit was wrong. You can read that paper here. Already the firm has seen huge investor outflows, and multiple charges against the firm (both criminal and civil) will likely further debilitate it.
APThe first words in the mayoral forum here at the Gay Men's Health Crisis,†an HIV-advocacy organization in midtown Manhattan, were aimed directly at Anthony Weiner.† "It's unfortunate today that we have to deal with Mr. Weiner's latest sexual psychodrama," said Sal Albanese, a fellow Democratic candidate for mayor. Weiner, who was staring at his notes, kept looking down while the crowd "ooh"-ed and "ahh"-ed and even hissed. The comment came after the most trying day in the Weiner comeback campaign ó one that ended with Weiner participating in a cringeworthy press conference†with his wife, Huma Abedin, detailing revelations about new lewd photos and chats he had sent online over the past two years. Surely, the new revelations ó Weiner admitted that some online conversations came after he resigned from Congress in 2011 ó will hurt a campaign that appeared to be gaining momentum with each new poll released.† Aside from that opening shot, though, the night went as smoothly as possible for Weiner in a feisty mayoral forum. Overall, the forum served as a sort of preview of why Weiner, for good or bad, is refusing to drop out of the race ó he's betting that his campaign of a "second chance" still sticks. When he walked down the hall from his press conference and into the forum that focused on funding for HIV/AIDS prevention, he drew a lengthy cheer. His opening statement made mention of the new scandal ó and he thanked the media for sticking around ó but he twisted it into his common theme of a second chance. "There are a lot of people who probably listen to me and say, you know what, you're not a very good messenger for these things," Weiner said, "because you've made some mistakes. And that's right. I don't dispute it." But he asked the voters at the forum to give him a second chance ó much as he has done throughout his time so far on the campaign trail.† They cheered. "You the man!" one supporter shouted. At times, the forum was rather lighthearted.†Randy Credico, the long-shot candidate, remarked that compared with his personal scandals, the revelations about Weiner were nothing.† "I did cocaine for 25 years! I didn't like it," Credico joked, as Weiner smiled. At this forum, particularly, many attendees identified with Weiner. Two women, who didn't want to be identified for this story, gave simple reasons ó they were both former drug addicts. One was HIV-positive. They both felt that they had been given a second chance in life and that Weiner was the best candidate to turn around their city. Before he made a mad dash and escaped out of the building through a swarm of hungry press, Weiner was given the opportunity to close out the forum. "There are a lot of people who, today, say they want me to stop," Weiner said in his closing remarks. "What I say to them is, this isn't about me. This is about the city needing someone ó after 12 years ó to fight for them for a while."†
For the time being, things are quiet. Later on in the day we get Flash PMI out of China, so that should offer yet another nice read on the health (or un-health) of the Chinese economy. For the moment though, just some softness in the Nikkei. Nikkei.com
Today the Senate Banking Committee met to discuss Wall Street's role in the global commodities business, and as you can imagine Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) was quite outspoken about the fact that she wants it majorly diminished. "...I share the concern of many of my colleagues about asset managers at huge Wall Street banks exercising control of key parts of America's infrastructure," she said. This discussion is crucial, as all of that will come up for consideration in September. Back in 2003 the Federal Reserve decided to temporarily allow banks to purchase commodities directly. That means oil, power, copper, aluminium etc. This September, that temporary regulatory relaxation is set to expire, and if it does, a big chunk of Wall Street's business will expire with it. And now that the ruling is up for discussion, Congress gets to weigh in. Wall Street be warned, if this hearing was any indication, the Senate is coming down on the side of culling the commodities business. Warren decried the idea that banks would use "other people's money" in pension and retirement savings "to pave the way for big banks to be able to control an electric plant or an oil refinery." One witness at the hearing asked her simply ‚Äî what would have happened if a bank had owned the Exxon-Valdez?¬† If that general tone sounds ominous, recent news stories haven't helped. This weekend, the New York Times reported that Goldman Sachs has allegedly been using its aluminum warehouses to manipulate the price of the metal. Additionally, JP Morgan is in negotiations with FERC, a federal energy regulator, to settle charges that its traders manipulated energy markets in the western U.S., they could pay up to $410 million. For today's hearing, Senators heard testimony from Ms. Saule Omarova, Associate Professor of Law University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Law; Mr. Joshua Rosner, Managing Director Graham Fisher &amp; Company; Mr. Timothy Weiner, Global Risk Manager Commodities/Metals, MillerCoors LLC; and Mr. Randall D. Guynn,¬† Head of Financial Institutions Group. Aside from Guynn, all of the witnesses cautioned against renewing the Fed's 2003 decision. Omarava was especially damning, saying that when Congress separated banking from commerce in 1956, they sought to prevent markets like the one we're in. "In this... over the counter derivative oil market I suspect Goldman Sachs can actually manipulate price," said Omarava.¬† "They could also affect the price of physical oil if they own tankers... I'm all for the DOJ launching an anti-trust investigation into these matters... If this is the market where JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs are playing, it makes me very uncomfortable as a banking attorney." Omarava also expressed doubts that regulators would be able to catch this activity as it's so complex. The witnesses didn't just talk about prices either, they talked monopolies. Since her rise to prominence as a regulator and then a Senator, Warren has been saying that banks are getting too big, too interconnected, and too complicated. Rosner's testimony corroborated that idea, and added to it the specter of¬† commodities -controlling, all-encompassing banking behemoths backstopped by the government (too big too fail). It's just more "coddling" from the Fed, he said, later adding... "These institutions have become the equivalent of the government institutions we saw fail during the crisis." This isn't to say that Warren's going to give up her crusade to bring back Glass-Steagall and pick this up as her mantle ‚Äî she's not. At the hearing she said that it was just "one tool in a tool box" to bring Wall Street back down to size. There's a difference between the reinstatement of Glass-Steagall and this commodities issue though, and that difference is all that matters to Wall Street banks. Where trying to reinstate Glass-Steagall seemed like a matter of lobbying and politicing, taking Wall Street out of the commodities business is seen as a matter of dollars. It impacts the Street's bottom line ‚Äî if it didn't, Goldman wouldn't have put out a "fact sheet" on its involvement in the aluminum warehouse business. This actually makes bankers nervous. Watch video of Warren's portion of the hearing below: 

Harpo Films/Weinstein Company FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. The Direction Of Interest Rates Is One Of The Biggest Investment Debates Right Now (Morgan Stanley) One of the biggest investment debates for the second half of the year is where interest rates are headed. Bernanke's initial comments sent the rate on both the 10-year and the five-year higher. Now Morgan Stanley writes that "rates will not back up that much more in the near term." "We think the Fed will remain accommodative for another year. There is just no reason to not believe Bernanke. While smart people who are ‚Äúin the know‚Äù disagree on Bernanke‚Äôs likely replacement, there is a reasonable school of thought that Janet Yellen will be the next Chairperson. Given she may be prone to wanting to keep rates lower for longer, shorting government bonds in the near term could be dangerous even if bonds ‚Äúhave to‚Äù back up in a more strategic time frame. Our best guess is bond yields oscillate around today‚Äôs level for the next few months." Two-Thirds Of Financial Advisor Industry Will Move To Asset-Based Feed In 2015 (Investment News) 67% of of financial advisor industry compensation is expected to be fee-based by 2015, according to the 2013 Cogent Advisor Brandscape, cited by Investment News. This is up from 59% now, and from 55% in 2007.¬† Wirehouses and broker-dealers are quickly adapting to the fee-based trend. Actively managed mutual funds will likely be hit the hardest. Advisors are increasingly focused on lowering costs, and a rise in the use of ETFs is coming at the expense of more expensive mutual funds. Our Biggest Clients Haven't Unloaded This Much Stock Since 2008 (Bank of America) Bank of America's latest data showed that stock selling on the part of institutional clients over the past four weeks is at a record high. "Net sales by this group were the largest since March, and the sixth-largest in our data history (since 2008)," writes BAML strategist Savita Subramanian in a note to clients. "And on a four-week week average basis, outflows by institutional clients are the largest in our data history." Bank of America Merrill Lynch Advisors Should Help Their Clients' Children Become Financially Responsible (The Wall Street Journal) Heather L. Locus of Illinois-based Balasa Dinverno Foltz LLC writes that one of her clients biggest concerns is the financial welfare of their children and grandchildren. In a new Wall Street Journal column she writes that one of the best things advisors can do is help teach their children to be "financially financially responsible and independent." "For teenagers and those in their early 20s whose parents have largely taken care of their finances, we can teach them the difference between financial wants and needs, and the true mechanics of credit cards. Even if they are still in high school and have a part-time job, we can help them understand the value of saving for retirement early by setting up an IRA. For even older children, we can go over basic investment principles, staying out of debt, budgeting, and important things to consider when discussing marriage, such as how much debt a spouse could bring into the picture and whether or not a prenuptial agreement is a good choice." Here's The 46-Page White Paper Steve Cohen Gave To SAC Employees Yesterday Explaining Why He Didn't Do Anything Wrong (Business Insider) The SEC recently charged SAC Capital's Steve Cohen with failing to supervise his employees and ignoring red flags about their alleged insider trading activities. It is seeking to ban him from the industry. In a white paper released to employees Steven Cohen's lawyers argue that he was too busy to notice and that he wasn't even at his desk when the alleged insider trading of Aug 26, 2008 took place.¬† "There were no ‚Äúred flags‚Äù suggesting that Mr. Martoma had improper information," the paper said. It also goes on to argue that Cohen "has gone to great length to deter insider trading and to establish an appropriate compliance culture."
Everyone has their own definition of "wealthy." Some say it's $1 million, others say $100 million. Some say it means making more than your brother-in-law. Others say it means not having to work or having strong relationships with family and friends. But a new survey from UBS shows that most investors say "wealthy" means $5 millionówith at least $1 million of that in cold, hard cash. The UBS Investor Watch asked 4,450 investors if they consider themselves wealthy. Fully 60 percent of those worth $5 million or more said they're wealthy, while only 28 percent of those worth $1 million to $5 million said they were wealthy (those were the only two categories given). (Read more:†Top 1% control 39% of world's wealth) Half of the respondents said that, more broadly, being wealthy means having "no financial constraints on activities." Only 16 percent said it meant "surpassing a certain asset threshold" and 10 percent said it means "not having to work again." Yet being wealthy doesn't just mean having millions in investments or assets. It means having plenty of cash on hand to handle any expense. Driven by the bad memories of the crisis, when many of the so-called wealthy were caught short of cash, investors currently have an average of 23 percent of their overall asset allocation in cash or equivalents. That's the highest number since at least 2010. (Read more:†We're rich again! We just can't feel it) And they don't plan to draw down their cash anytime soon. About two-thirds of investors feel they have the right amount of cash. As long as they take risk with some of their money in equities, they want a large pile of cash to balance the risk. "Current investor asset allocations tend toward the 'barbell' approach," UBS said in the study, "with more cash than the industry would typically recommend but also sizable equity holdings." Among the top reasons to keep cash were to cover emergencies, to "give me peace of mind" and to "make large purchases without selling assets."
Michael Nagle/Getty ImagesCarl Icahn, the 77-year-old billionaire investor whose stock ideas move markets, is about to take to Twitter in a big way. Icahn, whose Twitter handle is†@Carl_C_Icahn, will reveal his next big investment idea on the social network, according to CNBC contributor Karen Finerman, a hedge fund manager and acquaintance of the investor who spoke to him via phone today. The timing of the idea reveal is uncertain, according to their conversation. But Icahn did say it would be presented like a "treasure hunt" with clues given first, according to Finerman. Icahn did not immediately return a call for comment. The use of Twitter by the legendary investor would be a giant step forward for the seven year-old social platform, which has gained a big following by the investment community, but has yet to be used by someone of this stature to reveal a stock pick. Icahn joined Twitter a little over a month ago, but has used it mostly to link to articles, wish a happy Fourth of July and promote his appearance at CNBC's Delivering Alpha Conference. (Read more:†Icahn at Delivering Alpha) Most big name investors such as Warren Buffett, David Einhorn, Leon Cooperman and Daniel Loeb reveal their new ideas in filings or at expensive investment conferences. Warren Buffett made a big splash about three months ago when he joined Twitter under the handle†@WarrenBuffett, but has only tweeted three times since then. Social platforms are already moving markets these days, prompting an April announcement by the SEC allowing companies to announce non-public information through social media in compliance with Regulation Fair Disclosure. The most infamous cases that drove the SEC's decision were Tesla Chief Executive Elon Musk's (@elonmusk) tweet last December that the company was cash flow positive during a certain week in November, and Netflix CEO Reed Hasting's Facebook post last July discussing the one billion video hours viewed by subscribers during the previous month. Many Wall Street firms still do not allow their employees to access Twitter on their work computers, leading many to try to follow on their phones and risk getting in trouble with compliance officers. They may want to change that policy soon because one of the richest men on Wall Street is about to rock the social world. -- Additional reporting by Maxwell Meyers
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueDirector of the National Economic Council Lawrence Summers (L) talks with U.S. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke as they wait in the East Room of the White House in Washington for President Barack Obama's remarks laying out a comprehensive regulatory reform plan in June 17, 2009.Every day, it seems like there's a new report out asserting that either Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen or former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers is the frontrunner to replace Fed Chair Ben Bernanke when his term expires in January. The latest is from Ezra Klein at the Washington Post, who writes an article today titled "Right now, Larry Summers is the front-runner for Fed chair." Citing "conversations with plugged-in sources both inside and outside the process," Klein writes that¬†Summers is "increasingly viewed as the leading candidate today ‚Äî and opinions on this, for reasons I don‚Äôt fully understand, have really hardened in the last 72 hours." Klein gives five reasons why: President Obama and his staff like Summers, they're looking for someone who will stay true to the Fed's dual mandate of low unemployment and low inflation, they're looking for someone who can deal with international crises should they arise, they think financial markets trust Summers more than Yellen, and they perceive Summers's reputation as being hard to work with as being overblown. "Against all that, the conventional wisdom ‚Äî which I fully bought into ‚Äî a month or two ago was that Summers had little real chance," says Klein. "But though I‚Äôm a bit surprised to be saying this, at this point, my reporting says he‚Äôs the front-runner." Of course, critics of the Summers argument point out that a lot of the ruminating from the White House on Summers for Fed chair could be out of respect for Summers, who, as Klein points out, has worked with and is friends with a lot of these people. After all, Summers has expressed interest in the position.
BOSTON ‚Äî Once the Paris of the Midwest, Detroit brought the world soul music, Henry Ford and Francis Ford Coppola. It‚Äôs down now, but surely not out. Detroit last week became the largest American city to file for bankruptcy. (See¬†Governing magazine‚Äôs article and interactive map¬†for others.) A great many people have given up on Detroit. Its population has shrunk about 250 percent since 1950. And its jobless and murder rates consistently¬†soar well above the national average. But Detroiters shouldn‚Äôt give up. They can turn it around and they wouldn‚Äôt be the first. GlobalPost correspondents around the planet found plenty of examples of cities that have suffered worse than Detroit, only to pick themselves up again. 1) Juarez, Mexico Spencer Platt/Getty Images Ciudad Juarez, the star-crossed city that shares the Rio Grande with El Paso, Texas, might well have something to teach Detroit about the darkness before a dawn. A rambunctious border town seemingly tacked to the middle of nowhere, Juarez boomed over the past four decades by stealing factories from places like Detroit and Dayton, Ohio, and ‚Äî of course ‚Äî smuggling marijuana, cocaine and other drugs to those same cities. Employment boomed and Juarez was rich by Mexican standards. The city's population exploded to 1.3 million with mostly poor migrants from the south ‚Äî mirroring Detroit's growth in the years leading to World War II ‚Äî who gladly filled $100-per-week production line jobs. Juarez was touted as a model for the globalized economy. But shanty neighborhoods spread like wildfire, sprawling into desert. Too many of the migrants' children rejected their parents' life on the factory floors, flocking instead to gangs that in turn went to work for the powerful drug-smuggling conglomerates. Jobs evaporated, first to China and then into the void left by the Great Recession. Politicians at every level shrugged off the collapse. Then Juarez, five years ago, exploded into a gangland war that claimed 10,000 victims, most of them young men. Juarez gained infamy as one of the most violent cities in the world, a harbinger for many of the impending collapse of Mexico. The carnage forced Mexico's government to respond at last, pumping in hundreds of millions of dollars in social spending. Juarez purged its corrupt and ineffective police. The gangs wore themselves out, one side winning and bringing a relative peace. Boosters went to work. ‚ÄúCiudad Juarez of Mexico: The Land of Opportunities,‚Äù crowed the pitch at an investment dinner this spring in China, which has started to bleed jobs back to Mexico. Investment started ticking up again and some of the 30,000 local Juarenses who had fled to El Paso came home, reopening shuttered businesses. Conditions remain far from perfect but Juarez seems on the rebound, its trial by fire a lesson for citizens and their leaders alike. ‚ÄúNo hay mal que por bien no venga,‚Äù holds a traditional Mexican folk saying that Detroit folks might now want to embrace. ‚ÄúThere is no bad that doesn't bring good.‚Äù ‚Äî Dudley Althaus,¬†@dqalthaus 2) Tokyo, Japan Junko Kimura/Getty Images Think Detroit has it bad? On March 9, 1945, the Japanese capital of Tokyo was nearly incinerated. World War II was coming to an end, and American forces had commenced the deadliest air raid in history, Operation Meetinghouse. Flying straight into the city's industrial heart, some 330 B-29 planes dropped 2,000 tons of incendiary bombs loaded with white phosphorus and napalm. Those are deadly concoctions, and the resulting firestorm killed 100,000 people in a single night. Over the next few months, the city was hit by 100 more air raids. Tokyo neighborhoods consisted of traditional wooden houses, making them vulnerable to a fast-moving blaze. Temperatures in some areas reached 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit. Some residents found hideaways, but pretty much all of them suffocated when the bombs sucked the oxygen out of their rooms. Other victims, who jumped in rivers to escape the scorching heat, were boiled alive. As the smoke plumes rose, American bomber crews could smell the stench of burning flesh. It is one of the most tragic chapters in the history of Japan. Yet the¬†city rose from the rubble, and today Tokyo is a high-tech hub. In the late 1940s, American occupiers helped rebuild industry and the economy. The outbreak of the Korean War in 1950 gave the Japanese economy an additional boost. As the next two decades unfolded, Tokyo made a remarkable bounce from the brink of starvation to the world of cool. It opened the first ever high-speed rail in 1964 ‚Äî a major technological feat ‚Äî and soon swept the world with familiar names like Sony and Nintendo. ‚Äî Geoffrey Cain,¬†@geoffrey_cain 3) Mogadishu, Somalia John Moore/Getty Images As Detroiters suffer the indignity of their city going bankrupt, they might take some comfort from knowing things could be worse. A whole lot worse. Take Mogadishu, for example. In its heyday, the capital of Somalia was a beautiful riviera city of white-washed Italianate buildings, ornate porticos, public squares and broad avenues. The balmy sea breeze blew away the humidity and restaurants served up some of the best seafood in Africa. Detroit was undone by the economy, but it was two decades of civil war that pulverized Mogadishu, leaving it a shattered shadow of its former self. Oddly enough the economy thrived ‚Äî at least for the warlords who ruled the broken streets. But even here, a place that became shorthand for hell on Earth,¬†things are getting better. There is now a¬†semblance of peace¬†in Mogadishu (albeit one that is disturbed by occasional suicide attacks and roadside bombs) and things are, at long last, improving. So Detroiters: Don't lose hope. If somewhere as forsaken as Mogadishu can stagger back to its feet, so, surely, can your city. ‚Äî Tristan McConnell,¬†@t_mcconnell 4) Surat, India Flickr/usiruk Dear Detroit: You think going bust is bad? Try coming back from a dose of the pneumonic plague. That's just¬†what residents had to do in the city of Surat¬†in the western Indian state of Gujarat in 1994 ‚Äî after the rat-borne disease killed 54 people. So how did the so-called ‚Äúdiamond city‚Äù ‚Äî known for cutting and polishing¬†11 out of 12 of the world's diamonds¬†¬†‚Äî come back to become the cleanest town in India? First and foremost, city administrator S.R. Rao took responsibility for the problem (Goodbye, Kwame Kilpatrick; Hello, Kevyn Orr). That, believe it or not, is as rare in India as it is in Motown. Then he ordered officials responsible for solid waste management to make personal field visits every day, rather than relying on dubious reports, and he instituted a grievance redressal system for complaints and fines for violators. Simple stuff. But the lesson was clear: The key to the rebound was local involvement in the process. If Surat can do it, so too can you, Detroit. ‚Äî Jason Overdorf,¬†@joverdorf 5) Medellin, Colombia Flickr/DavidPLP In the space of a quarter-century, the Colombian city of Medellin has gone from murder capital to the world‚Äôs most innovative city. The base for Pablo Escobar‚Äôs cocaine cartel, Medellin in 1990 posted a murder rate of 300 homicides per 100,000 residents. Later, guerrillas, paramilitaries and criminal gangs took over the drug trade and ruled the hillside slums. But a combination of policing, social work and innovative infrastructure ‚Äî a mix sometimes called social urbanism ‚Äî has helped Medellin come back from the brink. Last year, the murder rate was 52 per 100,000 residents. Key to the transformation has been making slum-dwellers feel like valued members of society. To that end, aerial trams carry people from the mountaintop ghettos to the subway system, giving them access to the rest of the city. New libraries, parks, schools and community centers have increased their property values. These experiments were cited in April by the Washington-based¬†Urban Land Institute when it named Medellin¬†the world‚Äôs most innovative city. Yet the Medellin miracle may be difficult to duplicate. Unlike Detroit, Colombia‚Äôs second city is a growing industrial and financial center, boasts a beautiful climate, and has long been a magnet for some of the best and brightest Colombians. That‚Äôs why, even in the worst of times, Medellin residents have always been intensely proud of their city. ‚Äî John Otis,¬†@JohnOtis 6) London, UK Oli Scarff/Getty Images In September 1940, early in World War II, Germany broadened its air assault tactics to include civilian targets as well as military ones. London was bombed 71 times over the next nine months of the Blitz, a campaign that claimed tens of thousands of lives and more than a million buildings in the capital. Once the war was over, London faced the task of rebuilding a city reduced in many districts to rubble and scorched earth. It was a chance to refit centuries-old streets for 20-century life. More than half a million apartments ‚Äî or flats, as they say here ‚Äî were built for those who lost their homes, including the city‚Äôs first high-rise buildings. Devastation on the south side of the Thames River was cleared to make way for the Royal Festival Hall, an exhibition center now anchoring the vibrant Southbank Centre arts complex along the river‚Äôs edge. The Barbican, a central London industrial district completely razed in a single night, became home to one of the capital‚Äôs premier arts venues and an iconic set of apartment buildings that brought residential life to the area for the first time. Take heart, Detroit. It is possible for a city to rise, quite literally, from the ashes. ‚Äî Corinne Purtill,¬†@corinnepurtill 7) Lille, France Flickr/Eoghan OLionnain From the gleaming new office towers surrounding the station where high-speed trains race off to Paris, London and Brussels, to the cobbled streets lined with gourmet stores and trendy boutiques, the northern French city of Lille oozes confidence and Gallic charm. In Europe, Lille is a textbook example of urban renewal. A onetime industrial powerhouse, the city saw serial closures of its coal mines, steel mills and textile factories in the 1970s. From 1967 to 1992, industrial jobs in the city and the surrounding region fell by 47 percent, compared to a national average of 18 percent. Urban blight took root: The city was dull, depressed and dangerous. Its old center was largely abandoned, surrounded by run-down housing projects. The middle classes fled. The turnaround came in the 1990s with funding for regeneration projects from the central government and the European Union. In 1994, the opening of the railway tunnel under the English Channel made the city an international transport hub. Paris and London are little more than an hour away by train, Brussels barely 30 minutes. The same year, the Euralille business district opened with 1.6 million square yards of office space, housing, shopping plus a conference hall and cultural center. The area took off, leading the way for Lille with its population of 1 million to become a major hub for the service industry. The old town's glorious Flemish Renaissance buildings were restored attracting floods of tourists. In 2004, the city's recovery was crowned by Lille's appointment as European capital of culture for a year. ‚Äî Paul Ames,¬†@p1ames
Federal Reserve Bank of PhiladelphiaIn recent weeks, economists have been taking down their forecasts for U.S. GDP growth. But within the U.S., some states are obviously doing better than others. According to the Philly Fed's updated new measure of state coincident indices, economic activity decreased in seven states during the three months ending in June. Every month, the Philly Fed produces fantastic maps tracking economic activity across the country.†
Apple delivered better than expected earnings results, giving the stock a little bump in after-hours trading.¬† It sold 31.1 million iPhones, which was well ahead of analyst expectations of 26 million units sold. On the earnings call, company executives attributed the strong iPhone number to accelerated iPhone 4 sales.¬† The success of the iPhone 4 was reflected in the iPhone's average selling price, which dipped to $581 for the quarter.¬†The iPhone 4 is the three year old iPhone that's sold at a discount.¬† Despite the fall in the ASP, and the success of the iPhone, execs said the iPhone 5 remains the most popular iPhone by far.¬† The other number of note was iPad units of 14.6 million, which was below expectations, and represented a 14% unit decline. Execs said that if you look at actually sell through on the product, discounting inventory issues, then iPad sales were down 3%. The decline was due to a lack of new iPad in the quarter. The year prior, Apple released the iPad 3, with a Retina display which drove sales.¬† Overall, revenue was only up 1% for the quarter, and EPS was down 20% on a year-over-year basis.¬† In the release, CEO Tim Cook said, "We are laser-focused and working hard on some amazing new products that we will introduce in the fall and across 2014." Here's the key numbers versus expectations where appropriate: Revenue:¬†$35.3 billion versus $35.18 billion expected by sell-side analysts. Whisper was $37 billion.¬†Apple's guidance was $34.5 billion¬†(midpoint). EPS:¬†$7.47¬†versus¬†$7.34 expected by¬†sell-side analysts.¬† iPhone units:¬†31.2 million¬†versus¬†26 million¬†expected by¬†sell-side analysts. Whisper was¬†26.5 million. iPad units:¬†14.6 million¬†versus¬†18.3 million¬†expected by¬†sell-side analysts. Whisper was 18 million.¬† Gross Margin:¬†36.9%¬†versus¬†37% expected by sell-side, and it was¬†the whisper number, too. Apple guided to 36.5% midpoint on margin for the quarter. Mac units:¬†3.8 million¬†versus¬†3.9 million¬†expected by¬†sell-side analysts, and it was¬†the whisper number, too. September quarter revenue:¬†$34-$37 billion¬†versus¬†$37.9 billion¬†expected by¬†sell-side analysts. Whisper was¬†$37 billion. September quarter gross margin:¬†36%-37%¬†versus¬†37%¬†expected by¬†sell-side analysts.¬† iPhone ASP: $581, versus $613 last quarter. Cash and securities: $146.6 billion Here's a look at the business overall: Apple And here's iPhone unit growth going back a bit: Business Insider Here's ASPs: Business Insider And here is our live blog of the earnings call: Ended in target range of 4-6 weeks o f inventory. iPhone up 51% in U.S. Once again number one in U.S. per comScore.&nbsp; iPhone very strong in Japan. Up 66%.&nbsp; More on customer satisfaction. Talking about iPad usage being huge.&nbsp; In every major industry, apps developed and deployed for iPad. $2.4 billion in content sales Strong iTunes sales resulted in $4 billion from software and services.&nbsp; $10.1 million per store, compared to $11.1 million a year ago.&nbsp; 84 million visitors per store.&nbsp; $106 billion is offshore.&nbsp; 400 million share retired via repurchase.&nbsp; $2.8 billion in dividends. Tim Cook: iPad and iPhone reduced inventory, iPad down 700K. iPhone down 600K. As you know, we typically don't like to have any more inventory than we need. If we can reduce, we do so.&nbsp; Don't subscribe to view that higher end is at its peak. I don't believe that, but we'll see and we'll report out results as we go along.&nbsp; We feel really good about where we are. Incredible quarter in U.S. education. Double digit in china... Happy with what we saw. Tim: From iPhone point of view, we saw strong sales in emerging markets, India was up over 400%, Philipines up 140%, these were, storng in developed markets, iPhone up 50%, Japan 60%, in some cases iPhone acclerated, an unusual pattern for us.&nbsp; Hong Kong down, mainland China up 5%, but lower growth rate. I attribute to many things, including the econmy there doesn't help us or others. In Hong Kng, shopping haven. We saw more dramatic downturn there. Not clear why that occurred. Down on sell thru on 20%, weighed great China.&nbsp; Not opposed to it. I like environmental aspect. That part encouraging to me.&nbsp; More than one tool in the toolbox. It's a great way for a buyer to get into the iOS ecosystem.&nbsp; We start at the product, believe most important customer love product and wants them, if not at that level create things people don't want.&nbsp; During June quarter, we concluded $2 billion ASR program. Final shares in on that. Second ASR of $12 billion started at end of April. Fiscal 14 that will close. Bought $4 billion on open market, about 9 million shares. Impact, 22.9 million shares. Into Sep quarter, we would expect to see 11 million share benefit.&nbsp;
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettBritain's Prince William (L) and his wife Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge leave with their baby son, from the Lindo Wing of St Mary's Hospital, in central London, July 23, 2013. It was another pretty quiet day in the markets. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidMeredith Whitney, managing director and senior financial institutions analyst for Oppenheimer and Co. Inc., speaks at the Reuters Finance Summit in New York, November 10, 2008. Meredith Whitney is re-upping her call for a wave of municipal bankruptcies, in the wake of Detroit's Chapter 9 filing. Flashback: in 2010, Whitney told 60 Minutes†that there could be between "50 to 100" cities defaulting on their debt, totaling "$100s of billions of dollars." While there have definitely been a few since then, we never really reached that number.† But today, in an op-ed for the FT, she doubles down: There are five more towns like Detroit in Michigan alone. There are many more municipalities across the country in similar positions. Basically, the profligacy of past city administrations past has finally caught up: ...these days, things are very different in the world of municipal finance. At the root of the problem is the incentive system that elected officials used to face. For decades, across the US, local leaders ran up tabs for future taxpayers; they promised pensions and other benefits for public employees that have strong legal protection. That has been a great source of patronage for elected officials: they can promise all sorts of future perks to loyal supporters (state and local workers) with very little accountability on the delivery of those promises. Today, we are left with the legacies of this waste. The bill for promises past is now so large for some cities and towns that it is crowding out money for the most basic of services ñ in the case of Detroit, it could not even afford to run its traffic lights. Across many American cities, cuts to basic social services have already been so deep that they have made the communities unpleasant places. She says officials are finally "siding with residents," but that this will come at the expense of pensions and bond holders. "The aftershocks of the largest municipal bankruptcy†in US history will be staggering," she says. Click here to read the whole thing on FT.com ª
Bloomberg Last night, six of Wall Street's brightest hedge fund managers met at the Borgata in Atlantic City for a secret charity poker tournament hosted by Bloomberg TV. The event was called "Poker Night On Wall Street" and you'll be able to watch the whole thing in August (with Trish Regan hosting the Bloomberg TV special), but we've got a few details for you now. There was a $50,000 buy-in and all told the event raised over $300,000 for charity. David Einhorn (Greenlight Capital), Steve Kuhn (Pine River Investments),¬† John Rogers (Ariel Investments), Jim Chanos (Kynikos Associates),¬† Mario Gabelli (Gabelli Asset Management), and Bill Perkins (Skylar Capital) all participated. We imagine it got colorful. The last time David Einhorn and Bill Perkins played in a tournament together was during last month's World Series of Poker. Perkins bumped Einhorn from the tournament, and according to Bloomberg, he was loud about it. Perkins shouted "Leeeeeeeeroy Jeeeeeeeenkins" in reference to the World of Warcraft meme as he turned over a pair of aces to beat Einhorn's ace-jack combo. If you've never seen the meme, you can watch a video below (contains NSFW language). In the meantime, you can look forward to seeing all these Wall Streeters face off on TV in a few weeks.  Oh, and here's Bloomberg TV's lovely host, Trish Regan: Bloomberg TV
REUTERS/Lucas Landau A girl stands in front of riot police while they block the road to Maracana stadium during a protest in Rio de Janeiro June 30, 2013. Tens of thousands of Brazilians have taken to the streets this month in the biggest protests in 20 years, fuelled by an array of grievances ranging from poor public services to the high cost of World Cup soccer stadiums and corruption.Last month during¬†the 2013 Confederations Cup¬†in Brazil¬†‚Äî a test run ahead of next summer's World Cup ‚Äî more than a million of Brazilians took to the streets to protest crime, corruption, failing public schools and hospitals, and high and rising prices. High prices may be the most critical factor in Brazilian unrest, according to¬†Simon Romero of The New York Times. Romero offers several striking examples: And it's been going on for years. In September 2011 we provided some examples:¬†¬† Romero writes that the stunningly high pricing can be largely attributed to "a dysfunctional tax system that prioritizes consumption taxes, which are relatively easy to collect, over income taxes." Even as Brazil benefits from¬†a decade of steady economic growth¬†fueled by¬†booming commodity exports and a consumer binge that lifted 35 million Brazilians from poverty,¬†the new middle classes ‚Äî not to mention the poor ‚Äî are being squeezed by the high cost of basic goods and services. ‚ÄúBrazil is on the verge of recession now that the commodities boom is over,‚Äù Luciano Sobral, an economist and a partner in a S√£o Paulo¬†told The Times. ‚ÄúThis is making it impossible to ignore the high prices which plague Brazilians, especially those who cannot easily afford to travel abroad for buying sprees where things are cheaper.‚Äù If that is true, the public protests will be even bigger during the 2014 World Cup across the country and the 2016 Olympics in Rio.
AP/Business Insider New York City mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner confirmed the authenticity of new lewd, sexually charged¬†online chats and photos that were posted by a nightlife website over the past day. Nightlife site "The Dirty" posted images¬†and conversations that allegedly came from Weiner to a 22-year-old woman under the pseudonym "Carlos Danger." ‚ÄúI said that other texts and photos were likely to come out, and today they have," Weiner said in a statement released by his campaign Tuesday afternoon. "As I have said in the past, these things that I did were wrong and hurtful to my wife and caused us to go through challenges in our marriage that extended past my resignation from Congress. While some things that have been posted today are true and some are not, there is no question that what I did was wrong.¬†This behavior is behind me. I've apologized to Huma and am grateful that she has worked through these issues with me and for her forgiveness. I want to again say that I am very sorry to anyone who was on the receiving end of these messages and the disruption that this has caused.¬†As my wife and I have said, we are focused on moving forward.‚Äù Weiner's statement does not address the crucial question of the timeline of when they occurred, and whether or not they came after his fall and resignation from Congress in 2011 amid the initial scandal. He did note, however, that the challenges in his marriage "extended past my resignation from Congress." The chats are not dated. The Dirty's source says that she carried on an online relationship with Weiner from July-November 2012. He didn't deny that in the statement. The anonymous woman told The Dirty that her online relationship with Weiner lasted for six months and that he had promised her "many" things ‚Äî most notably a condo in Chicago and a job at Politico, in some kind of "blogger panel." (It's worth noting that Politico's events page does not seem to have any record of a "bloggers panel.") The chats were posted by Nik Richie, the founder and contributing editor of The Dirty.¬†The Dirty's post gained traction in the mainstream¬†when BuzzFeed's Ben Smith posted them. Richie did not respond to a request for comment. When he first jumped into the campaign, Weiner said that he couldn't guarantee new photos like the one that forced him to resign wouldn't surface.¬† Weiner had built up consistent leads in multiple recent mayoral polls before these new revelations, leading both City Council Speaker Christine Quinn and former Comptroller Bill Thompson. This post has been updated.
Pew Research"Four years after the recession officially ended, the economic recovery remains a long way off in the view of many Americans." Those are the latest findings from a Pew Research poll. 44% of the 1480 surveyed said the economic recovery was a long way off, while 28% said the economy is recovering and 26% said the economy will recover soon. According to Pew, there has been a notable shift in perceptions in just the past month. "Opinions of current economic conditions, which had improved modestly in June, have slipped back to levels from earlier this year," says the report. "Currently, 17% say economic conditions are excellent or good, while 82% rate them as only fair or poor. In June, 23% rated the economy as excellent or good, the most positive measure in more than five years."
Steve Cohen's Court date has been set for August 26th, but before he defends himself against the SEC, he defended himself to his employees at SAC Capital yesterday. On Friday the SEC charged him with failing to supervise his employees and ignoring red flags about their alleged insider trading activities. If convicted, he could be banned from managing other people's money for life. Cohen handed out this 46 page white paper explaining his innocence, the WSJ first reported.†In it, he claims the SEC's charges are "baseless" and that he didn't see key e-mails that would've tipped him off to illegal activity. Cohen, the report says, receives thousands of e-mails and instant messages a day and had every reason to believe that the information he recieved from alleged insider trader Mathew Martoma had been learned legally. Read the full white paper below. SAC White Paper by Jordan Golson 

Years ago, economist Arthur Orkum created the "misery index," a crude proxy for an economy based on the¬† sum of the unemployment rate and the inflation rate. Stock market guru Ed Yardeni took a look at if and how the U.S. misery index was correlated with bull and bear markets. "In the past, bull markets in stocks tended to occur when the Misery Index was falling, or at least not rising," wrote Yardeni. "The index is down from a cyclical peak of 11.8% during March 2010. Odds are it will remain around 8.5% through the end of next year. If so, then it suggests that the current bull market may last at least until then, if not longer." Yardeni's misery index is based on the the core personal consumption expenditures deflator and the BLS's unemployment rate. The shaded areas show where the S&amp;P 500 went into bear markets, or fell by 20% or more. Dr. Ed's Blog
BloombergTech/YouTubeAn MBA from a top school can cost almost $100,000óa huge expense. But is it really worth it? Top HR recruiters, CEOs, and startup innovators disagree about the value of MBAs, depending on the situation and person. Attaching the MBA to your name can affect your hiring chances, your networking abilities, and your innovation skills.† While none of the recruiters think to waste your time at a less-than-prestigious graduate program, they do debate whether the top ones deliver on the promise of producing better business leaders.†
We're hiring a Research Analyst to join the growing Business Insider Intelligence team. What Is BI Intelligence? BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from Business Insider that provides insights, data, and tech industry analysis. We publish notes and in-depth reports as well as an exhaustive library of charts and data sets that help subscribers stay on top of key tech trends. The service, launched in 2012, has experienced rapid growth. It has expanded beyond an original focus on the mobile industry and has launched a second coverage area on social media. We plan to expand further in the near future. Check out BII here. What's The Job? We're looking for a hard-working Research Analyst with extremely strong writing, analytic, and data-processing skills to support our work across industry verticals. We serve a rapidly growing subscriber base of companies and individuals in the mobile, media, advertising/marketing, and tech worlds. The ideal applicant will understand tech industry dynamics and possess the ability to cut through noise and fluff by putting hard numbers to important trends. The candidate will support the Editorial Director and the analyst team by producing original in-depth reports, curated data sets, graphics, and daily charts on social and mobile trends. This job requires resourcefulness and creativity in finding relevant data, and an ability to think critically in order to identify insights of real value. The environment will be dynamic, and fast-paced as we expand from our original focus area in mobile. The position is full-time and is based in our New York City office. Desired Skills &amp; Experience: Most importantly, a robust analytical background is a requirement. Here are some of the other traits the ideal candidate possesses: Skill level: This role would be an excellent way to develop a career as an analyst, market researcher/consultant, or business journalist. If interested, please email a short cover letter, writing samples, and resume to Marcelo Ballv√© (mballve@businessinsider.com). Thank you in advance.
The Philly Fed has released coincident indexes for all 50 states, combining data on payroll employment, hours worked in manufacturing, the unemployment rate, and wage and salary disbursements to paint an economic picture of the country. In June 2013, the indexes increased in 29 states, decreased in 7 states, and remained stable in 14. "The trend for each stateís index is set to the trend of its gross domestic product (GDP), so long-term growth in the stateís index matches long-term growth in its GDP," according to the report. This map shows the three month change in the Philly Fed indicators. As Bill McBride at Calculated Risk notes, this map was all red during the recession (and all green during the recovery). A few states have dipped back into the red. Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
Flickr / zcopleyThe SEC alleges that Trendon T. Shavers, the founder and operator of Bitcoin Savings and Trust (BTCST), offered and sold Bitcoin-denominated investments, raising at least 700,000 Btc, or about $4.5 million at the time of the alleged take.¬† That's about $63 million at today's prices. He apparently went by the handles ‚ÄúPirate‚Äù and ‚Äúpirateat40.‚Äù Here was the scheme: The SEC alleges that Shavers promised investors up to 7 percent weekly interest based on BTCST‚Äôs Bitcoin market arbitrage activity, which supposedly included selling to individuals who wished to buy Bitcoin ‚Äúoff the radar‚Äù in quick fashion or large quantities.¬† In reality, BTCST was a sham and a Ponzi scheme in which Shavers used Bitcoin from new investors to make purported interest payments and cover investor withdrawals on outstanding BTCST investments.¬† Shavers also diverted investors‚Äô Bitcoin for day trading in his account on a Bitcoin currency exchange, and exchanged investors‚Äô Bitcoin for U.S. dollars to pay his personal expenses. And here's the kicker: he transferred a bunch of the stuff to his day trading account, but it turns out he wasn't very good at it. The SEC alleges that Shavers, who lives in McKinney, Texas, paid 507,148 Bitcoin in investor withdrawals and purported interest payments.¬† He transferred at least 150,649 Bitcoin to his personal account at an online Bitcoin currency exchange.¬† Shavers suffered a net loss from his day trading, but realized net proceeds of $164,758 from his sales of 86,202 Bitcoin.¬† Shavers transferred $147,102 from his personal account at the online Bitcoin currency exchange to accounts he controlled at an online payment processor as well as his personal checking account.¬† He used this money to pay his rent, utilities, and car-related expenses as well as for food and retail purchases and gambling. ¬†Here's the full PDF complaint ¬ª
BloombergJulian Robertson, CEO of Tiger Management, went on Bloomberg Surveillance today to talk shop. So of course Apple came up ó†the stock was one of the legendary hedge funder's largest holdings at one point. He has since disavowed it. He once called Apple the greatest company in the world.  Now? "I read the book on Steve Jobs and I developed a tremendous amount of respect and admiration for his intellect. But I came to the conclusion that he really was a maverick person and he really could not establish a great long-term entity," he told Bloomberg's Tom Keene. "I don't think the Steve Jobs was the type of guy that would have developed a great, long-term leadership." "I think the Google people have a better way of getting things done," he said. That's a big 180. Robertson also said he didn't think the SEC's case against SAC's Steve Cohen would have a "big effect" on the industry at large. "I think hedge funds are generally extremely careful that they adhere to the straight line of the rules," he said. Here's the transcript courtesy of Bloomberg Television: Robertson on whether the hedge fund industry will be forever changed in the wake of SAC: "No, I don't think so. I think hedge funds are generally extremely careful that they adhere to the straight line of the rules and I don't expect that to happen, to have a big effect on it." On whether he sees the hedge fund industry as a group of top performers and everyone else or whether he bundles performance together: "I don't think you can bundle everyone together. But I do think one of the things that's affected hedge fund performance over the last, well, really since it started really getting big around the '80s, is the increase in size of hedge funds. It was so much easier to compete with Bank Trust departments, with individual investors, with mutual funds than it is with other hedge funds. And I think the success of hedge funds in general has probably hurt the performance of individual hedge fundsÖBecause the competition is tougher." On why he's not constructive on Apple anymore: "I read the book on Steve Jobs and I developed a tremendous amount of respect and admiration for his intellect. But I came to the conclusion that he really was a maverick person and he really could not establish a great long-term entity. He was just a very mercurial, tough guy. And I just donít believe he could have done that. And I think the Google people have a better way of getting things doneÖThe leadership and Apple, I don't think the Steve Jobs was the type of guy that would have developed a great, long-term leadership." On key attributes he looks for in "Tiger Cubs" like Nehal Chopra: "Well that's sort of secret to usÖNehal has not mentioned one of the aspects of her being which sort of got us very interested. And this was almost as important as her degree from Wharton. She was on the Indian National Tennis Group. And was you know, David Cup caliber, that type of thing. And she's a vicious competitor. She is a winner. And I find that people who compete well in one thing compete well in other things."† On the hedge fund industry's overall performance: "Hedge funds do better than the markets in bad markets because they are hedge funds. And the, the ideal for hedge fund is a vigorous active market that doesn't move a whole lot. There they can make it in both the long and short basisÖ.In '07, hedge funds, I know ours, just blew it outÖ.It was just unbelievable. And then in '08, we lost, you know much of that." On how to get Americans re-engaged with the stock market: "Well I don't think it's necessary for Americans to get re-engaged with the stock market. I actually think maybe there is too much emphasis on the stock market around everywhere. I would rather see so many of the great young people become scientists or engineers than get into the stock market. We've got too much talent in that businessÖYeah, I'd rather they go to these other areas where we're desperate for help." On why he's focused on supporting education in Newark: "Well I think Newark needs help. I think Cory [Booker has] done a great job of developing the help. He was helped tremendously by Mark Zuckerberg and a $100 million grant that he made. And we are very concerned about the transition of teachers. And the way the system is set up now, it is a last in-first out basis. In other words, the last teacher hired is fired. And in Newark we arranged to really work out a deal with the unions. And the unions came in and worked with us on it. And what happened was that we actually bought out the bad teachers and kept the good teachers. In other words bought them out, paid their contracts off." On his fifth grandchild being born yesterday: "I welcomed the fifth grandchild yesterdayÖOutdoing the Queen and the Duchess by a slight amount. And actually beating the doctor who delivered the baby by about two hours. Because two hours after the baby arrived, the doctor went into labor and had her child." On whether he reads every email he receives: "No sir."
Every week, the BofA Merrill Lynch equity strategy team breaks out data on how much stock clients are buying and selling. Last week, we highlighted how BAML's big institutional clients have been rotating out of stocks all year, while retail investors continue to buy into the market. According to this week's data, the amount of selling by institutional clients over the past four weeks has hit the highest level on record. "Net sales by this group were the largest since March, and the sixth-largest in our data history (since 2008)," writes BAML strategist Savita Subramanian in a note to clients. "And on a four-week week average basis, outflows by institutional clients are the largest in our data history." Bank of America Merrill Lynch Meanwhile, retail investors are still buying. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Good news, Moms and Dads: kids are finding other ways to pay for college these days. A new study by student lender Sallie Mae shows "free money", such as scholarships, grants and financial aid have become the biggest source of college funding. Back in 2009, scholarships and grants accounted for just 25% of college funding. That figure is up 5 points today, accounting for 30% of college costs, according to the report,¬†"How America Pays for College 2013."¬† The trend is likely giving cash-strapped parents a much-needed break. Students used to rely on mom and dad for more than one-third of college costs in 2010. Now, parents make up just 27% of funding. Families still see the value in college education (85% of parents and 95% of student say it's a worthy investment) and¬†they've taken great pains to adapt to rising tuition and fee costs across the country. We've culled the entire report and picked out charts that paint the clearest picture of how Americans are affording higher education these days.¬† -- Sallie Mae¬† How America Pays For College Sallie Mae ¬† "How America Pays For College" "How America Pays For College"  Looking for scholarships you ¬†might qualify for? One of our favorite tools is the¬†FastWeb scholarship search. It's the¬†largest and most frequently updated scholarship database out there.
Many Republicans are resigned to the idea that they can only win national elections by the thinnest of margins. Mitt Romney's infamous "47%" remarks were an explanation for why nearly half the country would be unwilling to even consider voting for him. The GOP has only won a plurality of the national vote once in the last six presidential elections: George W. Bush's 51% win in 2004. But a new Quinnipiac poll out yesterday shows a simple GOP roadmap to winning big: Nominate Gov. Chris Christie (N.J.). Here's the key chart. Typically, candidates are very unpopular with the opposing side and split independents evenly, but most everybody likes Christie. Business Insider / data from Quinnipiac The headline number from the poll is that Secretary of State Hillary Clinton (D) and Christie would tie, 41-41, in a presidential matchup in the Democratic-leaning swing state of Iowa. But the favorable/unfavorable ratings are what really show how Christie is special. Uniquely among national politicians, he polls well with Republicans, Democrats, and independents. All three groups are solidly more likely to say they have a favorable view of Christie than an unfavorable one. Quinnipiac polled three other politicians in Iowa and found much more normally polarized responses. Clinton, Vice President Joe Biden (D), and Gov. Scott Walker (R-Wis.) are all beloved by their parties and hated by the other side. The chart understates how polarizing Walker is because many voters have no opinion on him yet. Among respondents with an opinion, 91% of Republicans view Walker favorably and 88% of Democrats view him unfavorably. If you're a political party whose problem is that your appeal is not broad enough, nominating the candidate with broad appeal should be a no-brainer. Christie is sure to face conservative resistance over substantive policy issues (like his acceptance of the Medicaid expansion) and stylistic ones (like his literal embrace of President Obama last October). But his actions that have antagonized conservative base voters are the same ones that allow Christie to maintain a broad appeal. And Christie seems to be sufficiently conservative for the Republicans who follow his governing actions most closely. Ninety-six percent of Republicans in New Jersey approve of the job he's doing as Governor,¬†according to¬†a June Quinnipiac poll. Christie shows that being broadly popular is relatively simple: You just have to show that you're governing in good faith and willing to compromise when doing so is popular and in the best interest of your electorate. The Republican party isn't doomed to rejection by half the electorate. It just has to be willing to adapt in the way Christie has. The patient can change, but only if it wants to.
Here's an updated table from the EIA showing recent and projected OPEC exports revenues.† They're going down, down, down: EIA We've seen versions of this before in our 15 charts that should leave the Saudis terrified. But it's perhaps most reflective of this one from BP's annual outlook, showing oil's share of world energy in terminal decline: BP
Here's an updated table from the EIA showing recent and projected OPEC exports revenues.† They're going down, down, down: EIA We've seen versions of this before in our 15 charts that should leave the Saudis terrified. But it's perhaps most reflective of this one from BP's annual outlook, showing oil's share of world energy in terminal decline: BP

APThe fight over raising the nation's debt ceiling has officially begun.¬† Analysts don't expect that the nation's debt limit will need to be raised before mid-October or mid-November, but House Republicans and the White House are already trading familiar words about the process. "We're not going to raise the debt ceiling without real cuts in spending. It's as simple as that," House Speaker John Boehner told reporters at a press conference Tuesday.¬† Boehner advocated a hardline approach to negotiations. Specifically, he invoked the so-called "Boehner rule" ‚Äî matching spending cuts for each dollar raised in the nation's borrowing limit ‚Äî as a method of negotiation.¬† "I believe the so-called Boehner Rule is the right formula for getting that done," Boehner said of a hike in the debt limit. Meanwhile, the White House has been reaffirming its position that President Barack Obama won't negotiate over raising the debt ceiling. He has said it's Congress' job to appropriate the amount of spending they have authorized in passing laws.¬† Republicans and Obama have been down this path twice before ‚Äî first, in a memorable, bruising summer 2011 fight that left the U.S. on the brink of default and led to a credit downgrade from S&amp;P.¬† Early this year, seeking to limit fallout from the battle over the "fiscal cliff," Republicans helped pass a bill that suspended the debt ceiling for a three-month period. This time around,¬†Republicans are signaling that they will demand concessions for any hike in the debt ceiling.¬†
Woods Entertainment / DimensionAmerican law firms will visit law schools this fall for nerve-racking on-campus interviews (OCIs), which could be more stressful than ever given the crappy state of the legal industry. One redditor who was nervous about impending interviews reached out for OCI horror stories to help "ease the tension." Here are the five of the best responses. 1.) From gillesthegreat: Not my story but from someone I know. He was interviewing with Dewey &amp; Leboeuf and politely asked "how is the firm's name actually pronounced?" A legitimate question. The answer came back, slowly articulated and dripping with condescension ... "Jones Day." The guy had gotten his interview schedule confused. 2) From Achlies: My legal name is not what I call myself and thus not something I ever put on my r√©sum√©. However, my transcripts and my r√©sum√©, with different names, obviously made the interviewer curious. He simply asked, "Why do you go by [nickname]" in a very polite, honestly-just-curious way. I was such an uncomfortable bundle of nerves, I said, "because it's pretty" as though it hasn't been my nickname all my life and tied deeply to my heritage. Like I had just named a pet and a friendly neighbor asked me why I chose that name. We shook hands as the interview ended and I had to sneeze but ‚Äî nerves killing me ‚Äî instead of being a normal person and letting go before sneezing, I sneezed on our clasped hands. Still got the job. 3) From jbiresq: This was at a callback last year but a partner, who was really well known in his practice area, asked me to talk about a legal issue. I could have talked about 50 things I knew. Instead I decided to talk about the Paramount antitrust case and how it hurt the release of "Magic Mike." And I described "Magic Mike" to him. That was pretty stupid in hindsight. 4) From invaderpixel: I had a contact act up right before one interview, even though I took the thing out before it started, I cried a continuous stream of tears out of one eye throughout the interview as I awkwardly explained and they offered me tissues. On the plus side, they were super nice. Didn't get a job/call back, but looking back I don't think I was going to get any jobs/callbacks anyways. 5) From etcerica: I got an interview with a large-ish regional firm only because of a family connection. (Not a thing I am ever happy to take advantage of, I like to earn things on my own.) They threw me in the schedule at the last minute and I was the only 2L being interviewed, so I went in already embarrassed about the circumstances. Then in the middle of it I projectile spat all over the conference table in the middle of a sentence. Three interviewers. Sorry, family connection...
Yesterday Netflix's earnings report was directly in line with what analyst projected, but the internet streaming service's stock price still dropped about 7% in after-hours trading. Analysts and investors are concerned with how Netflix plans to increase its subscriber base. Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and CFO†David Wells held a webcast yesterday in lieu of the traditional earnings call. The two explained that the company is investing in original series as a way to boost subscribers.†Netflix calculates the cost of producing a show as an investment instead of an expenditure. There was a "small but noticeable" member bump from "Arrested Development" but the bump didn't help Netflix reach the 900,000 new subscribers Wall Street was hoping for.†Netflix added 630,000 subscribers in the U.S. during the second quarter bringing the total to 29.81 million U.S. subscribers.† Morgan Stanley's Scott Devitt and John Egbert believe that Netflix's original series are "yielding tangible benefits to member singups and churn." While Netflix wouldn't reveal actual viewership numbers for its original series it did note that it has renewed all of its series for a second season. Hastings emphasized the importance of the company renewing its original series as, "a very positive sign".† Netflix also pointed out that it will produce original documentaries and stand-up comedy specials as a way to attract new members. The company's newest series, "Orange Is The New Black" is doing better than Emmy-nominated, "House of Cards" and all other shows the company has released.  Each original series is doing better than the last which you could argue is a good thing. As long as Netflix can continue to demonstrate to investors and Wall Street that it is scaling quickly and effectively it will continue to perform well.
Google Maps9384 Petoskey Ave, currently listed at $130. We recently reported†that in theory,†you can buy a bunch of houses in Detroit for $500 or less. We've already seen people talking about scooping some up, just as a speculative investment. But it's a bit more complicated than that. We turned to a couple of the subjects from†our earlier profile on young professionals moving to Detroit, to provide some color about this phenomenon. They said it's not quite so simple as just plunking down a week's salary. In many cases, if you want to purchase one of the bargain properties, you will also have to pay all the back taxes the property owes. Tifani Sadek, a lawyer who with her husband just purchased a home in the Woodbridge neighborhood for $94,000, pointed us to a site called Why Don't We Own This, which compiles data on distressed properties in metro areas that can help people figure out what else they're going to owe. The site is almost a real life version of the Matrix ó endless blocks of foreclosed and bank-owned homes. Here's a screenshot for Detroit. (Red dots = foreclosed homes; yellow = conditional; green = redeemed): WhyDontWeOwnThis.com A typical example is the property at†13858 Fleming. It's assessed at $7,073.† But it's also behind an additional $7,603 in taxes and fees (and not including your realtor's fee). Plus, as soon as you buy it, it's likely going to be reassessed, meaning you'll start paying even more in property taxes. Just up the street, 13545 fleming is listed on Zillow for $70. But Zillow puts its actual market value at $32,000. There is one way to get around the initial back taxes, Sadek says: every fall, Wayne County (in which Detroit sits) hosts a two-day property auction. Bidding starts at $500. Any properties that don't go on the first day ó the worst of the worst ó are voided of their back dues, she said. The money is only half of this story. It also appears buying the cheapest properties in Detroit can take a toll on your psyche. Jeremy Brown, who works in real estate in the city, emailed us to say that many of the cheapest houses have to be completely rebuilt, not least because thieves have stripped them of basic infrastructure. Nearly all of them have mold, require all new electrical, plumbing, ductwork, drywall, many times a roof, all new windows, doors, cabinets.† Basically everything.† Anything that can be taken and sold, has been. Realtor.com14678 Mapleridge, which is listed at $100.It's impossible to overstate how aggressive the city's thieves have become in some of these neighborhoods, Brown said. You almost need to pay someone to sleep on an air mattress in the house while you are working and move in immediately upon completion," he said. "If these houses sit, people WILL break into them.† You put in a new toilet, bathtub, and vanity...that night people come in and rip it all out.† A business partner of mine had a house broken into 5 times over the last couple of months, and it is in a much better area than the stuff [that appeared in our article].† It is hard out there, and people are trying to survive. Despite all that, it may seem tempting to plow into a market that probably will not get any worse. But Sadek warns locals won't take kindly to property vultures: I am happy people want to invest in Detroit but it is extremely detrimental when they do so from afar and don't fix the house up and rent it out. People that sit on houses often do more harm than good. There are lots of "investors" sitting on blighted houses waiting for their value to rise, which will never happen when tons of people do it. If people buy homes, I really hope they'll treat it the way they would any other home. You should probably think hard before going in on these ultimate fixer-uppers.
Flickr / Martino's doodlesGoldman Sachs has posted a full response to the New York Times' allegation that it uses its warehouses to† manipulate aluminum demand, and thus price, on its website. The bank tweeted out this "fact sheet" on its role in physical commodities markets about half an hour ago. Also this morning, the Senate Banking Committee is listening to testimony from four experts about Wall Street's role in commodities markets. The Federal Reserve is to decide whether or not to continue a 2003 rule that allows Wall Street banks to purchase physical commodities in September, and if it's axed, the banks stand to lose a lot of business. The witnesses, for the most part, are falling on the side that the Fed needs to end the rule. We'll let you know if there are any fireworks. In the meantime, here's Goldman's fact sheet: As part of our activities as a market maker, or intermediary between buyers or sellers, in commodities and commodity futures and derivatives, Goldman Sachs, like a number of other financial institutions, holds physical commodities in inventory. †  We also hold other physical commodity operations as investments. This includes Metro International Trade Services, a metal warehousing company we bought in 2010, and which operates under the regulations of the London Metals Exchange (LME).  Recent news reports have inaccurately accused Metro of deliberately creating aluminum shortages and incorrectly asserted that Metro moves aluminum from one warehouse to another in order to earn more rent fees.  Some additional key facts about global aluminum markets and the LME system: † † † † † †
The stock was last trading up more than 3% at $61.19 per share.¬† The shares have been trading in a range of $60.75¬†to $62.14. Herbalife is the stock that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, is famously short.¬† Back in December, Ackman publicly revealed that he's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife stock¬†in a 342-slide presentation. ¬†He believes the company is a pyramid scheme and that regulators, specifically the FTC, will investigate it.¬† Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells weight loss shakes and vitamins, has been the center of a huge hedge fund battle. ¬† Ackman's rival, billionaire investor Carl Icahn, has snapped up a massive long position. ¬†Icahn believes that Ackman will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes."¬† Today we also have Daniel Loeb, who runs Third Point, out with a taunting message on his Bloomberg Terminal that's targeted toward Ackman. Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short, shares of Herbalife are up more than 39%. Here's the chart of this morning's trading activity:¬† Yahoo! Finance
Wikimedia CommonsWhenever I forget to mute CNBC or Bloomberg TV, I invariably hear some wag explaining to us that the goal of the Fed‚Äôs policy of quantitative easing (QE) is to lower bond yields in order to stimulate borrowing by the nonbank public and thus, increase aggregate spending. If, in fact, the Fed‚Äôs paramount goal is to lower bond yields, then I suggest that it might want to consider quantitative¬† tightening¬†(QT). Why? Because, as shown in Chart 1, there is a¬†positive¬†correlation of not insignificant magnitude (0.57 out of a possible maximum¬† of 1.00) between year-over-year changes in Federal Reserve outright holdings of securities excluding Treasury bills and the year-over-year change in the yield on Treasury 10-year maturity securities. In other words, since the Fed has been actively engaged in outright purchases of longer-maturity securities (i.e., QE), there has been a tendency for bond yields to¬†rise¬†when the Fed‚Äôs purchases of these securities¬†increases¬†and¬†vice versa.¬†The implication of this is that if the Fed desires that bond yields¬†decline, it ought to¬†reduce¬†its holdings of securities! The Econtrarian  If, on the other hand, the Fed desires that real economic growth accelerate, then it might want to pay more attention to the¬†quantity¬†of credit it creates and less attention to the¬†price¬†of credit, i.e., the level of interest rates. During most of the post-WWII era, the Fed has striven to directly or indirectly control the interest rate on the overnight cost of funds, the federal funds rate. The behavior of longer-maturity Treasury securities interest rates¬†in relation to¬†the behavior of the federal funds rate has often been a reliable¬†leading¬†indicator of the behavior of real economic activity. Specifically, if the yield on longer-maturity Treasury securities were rising¬†relative to¬†the federal funds rate, this has generally been a harbinger of stronger real economic activity andvice versa. This is shown in Chart 2. From Q1:1957 through Q4:2007, the correlation between the 4-quarter moving average in the interest-rate spread between the Treasury 10-year security and federal funds, advanced two quarters, and the year-over-year percent change in real GDP was 0.51 out of a possible maximum of 1.00. The Econtrarian The¬†fact¬†that rising bond yields tend to portend faster economic growth runs counter to conventional wisdom, i.e., what passes for informed analysis on CNBC and Bloomberg TV. What might explain this counterintuitive relationship between the current behavior of bond yields and the future behavior of real economic growth? When the demand for corn rises relative to the supply of corn, the price of corn rises. The same things holds true for credit. When the demand for credit rises relative to the supply of credit, the price of credit, i.e., the interest rate, rises. Private banks, experiencing increased loan demand, will begin to grant more credit. But the banking system‚Äôs ability to create more credit is limited by the amount of outstanding Federal Reserve credit. If the Federal Reserve is targeting the level of the federal funds rate and does not raise the target level of the federal funds rate in the face of increased credit demand in general, and banks‚Äô demand for Fed credit in particular, then, in order to maintain the targeted level of the federal funds rate, the Federal Reserve must¬†createsome additional credit to satisfy the increased demand for credit from the banking system. This increase in Federal Reserve credit¬†allows¬†the private banking system to increase its supply of credit to the nonbank public, all of which results in increased spending in the economy. In sum, a rise in bond yields relative to the federal funds rate elicits an increase in ‚Äúthin-air‚Äù credit, i.e., the sum of Federal Reserve and private banking system credit, which, in turn, results in a net increase in spending in the economy. If the primary goal of the Federal Reserve were lower bond yields, as implied by the talking heads on CNBC and Bloomberg TV (not to mention some Fed officials), then I submit that the Fed should abandon QE and adopt QT, i.e., begin¬†outright sales¬†of securities from its portfolio. All else the same, Fed sales of securities would reduce the supply of Fed credit relative to banks‚Äô demand for such credit. This would force up the federal funds rate. Banks would pass on their higher cost of funds to their loan customers, thus raising bank loan rates. In the face of unchanged nonbank public credit demand, the quantity of credit demanded by the nonbank public would fall as a result of the rise in bank loan rates. Both bank and Fed credit, i.e., total ‚Äúthin-air‚Äù credit, would then contract, leading to slower aggregate spending. The slower aggregate demand growth would lead to a decline in the demand for credit, especially from businesses, a decline in inflationary expectations and, ultimately, a decline in bond yields. Of course, the ultimate goal of the Fed‚Äôs current QE policy is faster growth in U.S. aggregate demand in order to bring down the unemployment rate. With banks and other depository institutions still not creating normal amounts of credit, QE is a policy that can augment the total supply of ‚Äúthin-air‚Äù credit. The way to measure the degree of¬†easing¬†(E) in QE is by the measuring the¬†quantity¬†(Q) of combined Federal Reserve and depository institution credit being created,¬†not¬†the¬†price¬†of credit. Did we learn nothing about monetary economics from Milton Friedman?
REUTERS/Phil McCartenDaniel Loeb, CEO, Third Point LLCEveryone is talking about hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb's taunting message on his Bloomberg Terminal.† If you go to Loeb's profile and click to send him a message, you'll see his MSG9 ("message 9") line, which is a message users can display only to people emailing them from their Bloomberg Terminal. † Here's what Loeb's message says:† "New HLF product: The Herbalife Enema, administered by Uncle Carl." Bloomberg TV anchor Stephanie Ruhle pointed it out on Twitter. Wow!Dan Loebs #bberg header "New HLF product: The @Herbalife Enema, administered by Uncle Carl" the battle continues... @BloombergTV Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products, has been the focal point of an epic†clash of hedge fund titans. Herbalife is the stock that Bill Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, is famously shorting. †Back in December, Ackman said he's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife stock because he believes the company is a "pyramid scheme."† Shortly after Ackman revealed his short, Loeb snapped up a sizeable long position, which he later exited with a profit. Ackman's arch-nemesis Carl Icahn bought a massive stake in Herbalife and said that Ackman would be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes." Here's how the stock has performed since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short:† Yahoo! Finance
Flickr.com/eye1The Chartered Financial Analyst exam results are out!† For the June 2013 Level I and Level II CFA exam, 38% of Level I candidates passed and 43% of Level II candidates passed.  The results are right in line with the ten-year historical average. Since 1963, the average pass rate for Level I is 42% and Level II and 47%. [.PDF] The CFA, which consists of three levels, is considered to be the most difficult series of tests taken by finance professionals. Fewer than†20% of candidates†pass all three exams on the first attempt. What's more is it takes the average CFA candidate four years to finish the program. †The average test-taker also spends six months preparing with about 20 hours of week committed to studying for the exam. Good luck to everyone receiving their results today. Congratulations to those of you who passed. †
It probably won't command as much global attention as the royal baby, but there's a meeting on Wednesday that will determine the future of Nantucket. I described the issue in detail last week. Here's the short version: Rising sea levels are accelerating beach and bluff erosion on a short stretch of shoreline on the Eastern side of the island. This stretch of shoreline is owned and occupied. Van Lieu PhotographyThis is what "Bluff House" looked like last winter.This winter, three successive storms gobbled up some 30 feet of the bluff, taking a couple of once-expensive houses along with it. If the erosion is not stopped, it will soon take many more houses, along with a section of a road. If a section of the road disappears, the municipal electricity, water, sewage, and telecommunications lines to about a dozen houses and a famous lighthouse will get cut off, along with access to the houses and lighthouse themselves. To restore access and services to the houses and lighthouse, which the Town of Nantucket is legally obligated to provide, the Town would have to buy some new land from unwilling sellers via eminent domain and then rebuild the road and infrastructure. This will cost the Town many millions of dollars. Henry Blodget / Business InsiderThis is what "Bluff House" looks like now.The owners of the property that is getting eroded have been trying for almost two decades to persuade the Town to let them spend their own money to build erosion-control measures. For almost all of this period, the Town has refused, citing conservation and environmental concerns. (The erosion-control measures, it was said, might ruin the beach, starve the ocean fisheries of important nutrients, and accelerate erosion elsewhere. And, besides, why should the Town knock itself out to save a bunch of single-season vacation houses worth more than most island voters earn in their entire lives?) This spring, however, an attorney hired by the homeowners made a new and more persuasive case to the Town: The attorney reminded the Town how much tax revenue it would lose if a couple dozen more $5-$10 million houses plunged into the Atlantic. And the attorney added up the millions of dollars the Town might have to spend to build a new road, as well as the costs the Town might incur while defending itself against a "damages" lawsuit the attorney might file that would hold the Town responsible for $100+ million in property losses.† The Town found this new logic compelling. And so, a month ago, in a 4-1 vote, the Town's Selectmen voted to allow the deftly-named "Siasconset Beach Preservation Fund" to build a 4,000 foot "hard armor" seawall to protect the bluff, houses, and road, with construction scheduled to start later this summer. And now, the only thing that remains between that seawall and the bluff is the Nantucket Conservation Commission. This Commission apparently has the ability to block, or at least delay, the construction of the seawall. So the forces on both sides are firing up their armies for the final battle. The Siasconset Beach Preservation Fund, for example, has created a classy web site and hundreds of pages of impressive documents explaining why the seawall will do no harm and much good.†After two decades of trying to save their houses, the threatened homeowners can finally see the finish line. Given the rate of erosion in recent years, they can also see another finish line, one that they desperately don't want crossed. So time is of the essence. The homeowners will hit the Conservation Commission with everything they've got. The less well-funded but probably more numerous opposition, meanwhile, is arguing that the seawall will destroy the beach, ruin some of the best bass-fishing grounds in the world, hose homeowners who live on either side of it (whose properties will now be "scoured" by erosion that can't happen on the seawall), and, in any case, only delay the inevitable.†After all, the conservationists point out, Nantucket has always moved. That's what islands like this do. Nantucket erodes on the south and east and builds up on the west and north, as it does so, crawls slowly but inexorably toward the mainland and New York. And although it's a bummer to lose one's house and land, this pattern has been visible for decades. If you don't want to lose your house to erosion, the conservationists say, don't build it on an eroding bluff. Time and tide wait for no man. Whatever Nantucket decides to do about the bluff erosion this time will likely determine what Nantucket will do about it forever. So this decision matters to more folks than just the folks who live on eroding Baxter Road. The first Conservation Commission "hearing" to determine the future of Nantucket will be on Wednesday, July 24th at 4pm at the Public Safety Building on Fairgrounds Road (a.k.a., tomorrow). Business Insider, naturally, will be there. Van Lieu Photography has an excellent blog that documented the destruction of the bluff last winter, along with the demolition of two houses. The top picture above and the one below are courtesy Van Lieu. Click the photo for more... Van Lieu Photography"Bluff House" goes over the edge.
Flickr/Carolyn ColesThe Richmond Fed index is out, and it's a big miss. The headline number came in at -11, vs expectations of +7. What's really ugly? The retail sales component. From the report: Retail sales contracted this month, leaving the index at ‚àí22, twenty-three points below last month's reading. Sales of big-ticket items declined slightly, while shopper traffic dwindled. The index for big-ticket sales slipped to ‚àí5, a point lower than the June reading, while the index for shopper traffic tumbled twenty-two points to ‚àí16. Inventories declined more slowly than last month, with that index settling at ‚àí12 compared to ‚àí22. Retailers were doubtful about sales in the next six months; the expectations index dropped to ‚àí29 from June's reading of 11. Retailers reduced their number of employees this month. The index fell twelve points lower to end at ‚àí14. Average retail wages were little changed, however. That index ended the survey period at 1, compared to the June reading of 4. This chart shows the dive. Richmond Fed This isn't the only recent sign of a weak consumer. McDonald's recently reported weak numbers, thanks to a soft consumer. June retail sales were also poor.
flickr/rvaphotodude The Richmond Fed's latest manufacturing report is out. The headline index unexpectedly plunged to -11 in July from 8 in June. Economists predicted the index would rise to 9. Below is a summary of the data from the release: Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region declined in July, according to the most recent survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond.* Shipments, new orders, backlogs, and capacity utilization fell this month. Vendor leadtime remained virtually unchanged, while finished goods inventories rose more quickly. On the employment front, hiring and the average workweek flattened. Average wages rose more slowly than in June. Looking ahead six months, manufacturers were optimistic about business. Expectations were for stronger new orders and shipments, along with a rise in capacity utilization. However, hiring expectations were muted and expected changes in the average workweek remained moderate. In contrast, producers looked for stronger wage growth and they also expected to increase capital expenditures in the months ahead. Raw materials and finished goods prices grew more quickly in July, according to survey respondents. Looking ahead, survey participants anticipated somewhat faster price growth for both raw materials and finished goods. Compared to their June outlook, however, expectations for growth in prices paid were little changed, while this month‚Äôs outlook for the pace of growth in prices received slipped below June‚Äôs expectations. Click here for the full release &gt; Richmond Fed
Likewise, this unkillable stock market rally seems to get no respect. U.S. stocks have been snubbed by investors this year. LPL Financial The S&amp;P 500 has continued the strongest bull market since WWII despite all the shots fired at the market this year: While it has been impossible to kill so far this year despite all the shots fired at it, this is no mindless and shambling rally. Stocks have deliberately moved past these events that did not stop the still beating heart of economic growth in the United States. As we discuss in our Mid-Year Outlook 2013, there will be more shots fired in the second half of the year including: the winding down of the Federal Reserve‚Äôs bond-buying program, the looming battle in Washington over the need to craft a deal to avert the debt ceiling later this year, the German elections, and the path of growth in Europe. A volatile second half in the stock market is likely, but so too are potential gains as the U.S. economy continues to post growth of about 2%, resulting in opportunities to buy on the dips. While the headlines hold as much drama as the Emmy nominees, tuning in each week to the regular series of data points on the economy including initial filings for unemployment benefits, retail sales, and bank lending may be the best way to stay on top of the market‚Äôs direction.
No discussion about gold is complete without a good conspiracy theory. While most theories are easily dismissed, some stay around for a while due to a confluence of circumstantial evidence surrounding them. Wall Street veteran Art Cashin addresses one such theory in this morning's Cashin's Comments. He builds off of this weekend's New York Times story about Goldman Sachs' aluminum warehousing operation and Monday's gold spike. A quick note about jargon: Commodities like gold will have a futures price and a spot price. The futures price is the price you'd see on a contract, which is traded on an exchange like the NYMEX. The spot price is the current price of the commodity.† Backwardation occurs when the spot price is above the futures price.† Typically, these two prices converge when the futures contract matures. From Cashin: All That Glitters Is Not Arbitrage ñ Monday, spot gold spiked up $45 and the media pundits pointed to things from China to the FOMC.† While all the cited may have been factors, veteran traders saw the bulk of the move resting in a conspiracy story. In my mid-day email to friends I had noted this: Gold soars as NYT story on metal warehouses fans flames of conspiracy theorists that gold warehouse stores have been "lent" out.† That theory also aided by backwardation (spot price far above near future). If you haven't been following gold closely, let me expand on that a little. For several months "physical gold" (bracelets, coins and small bars) have seen near riotous demand with long lines stretching into the streets.† At the same time "paper gold" (ETF's, futures and nominal spot) have seen sharply falling prices.† That dichotomy has sparked more than a few conspiracy theories. The worst (and most strained) claims the world's central banks have put a bear raid on gold.† That rumor claims that they are trying to cover the fact that they have sold/lent the gold they were supposedly safeguarding for their citizens.† A plunging gold price would reduce the urge to look behind the curtain (or into the vault) and discover this misfeasance.† A more pervasive form of the† rumor/hypothesis substitutes the global banks for the central banks but with the same, theoretical, abuse of custody. A key support of these theories is the backwardation in gold ñ the spot price is higher than the near future contract.† That's unusual. It could normally be resolved by selling spot gold and buying the cheaper future one month out.† Thus, in a month, you would reap an apparent locked-in, riskless profit.† Yet no one seems to be doing it.† Is there doubt that there is gold in storage that will be deliverable in a month?† So, the theorists assume.† Now add in the front page NYT story, hinting chicanery and manipulation by the big banks of warehoused metals.† Was this the smoking gun?† Some folks seemed to think so as a short covering stampede exploded the gold price.† The next five days will be key. Arb, or arbitrage, is a fancy word traders use to describe a situation where they can take advantage of market price discrepanicies to book guaranteed profits. Is there something the traders know that we don't know? Are there other forces preventing the arb opportunity from being arbed away? Unfortunately, we are not sophisticated enough to answer these questions.† But email us at moneygame@businessinsider.com if you can.
Yesterday, we got some surprising news that investor Dan Loeb was quitting the Yahoo board and his hedge fund Third Point would sell 40 million shares. The deal came approximately one year after Loeb helped orchestrate Marissa Mayer's hire as Yahoo CEO. Today, The New York Post gave the deal its typical treatment. Here's a look at the story, as tweeted by CNBC's Carl Quintanilla: Dan Loeb's $YHOO profit gets the @nypost treatment pic.twitter.com/g683qmVMB8
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderReal men eat meat. At least that's the stereotype that has been passed down since our days as hunter-gatherers ó when men (the hunters) would go off to kill wild animals, while women (the gatherers) would hang around collecting fruits, nuts, and berries. [See the successful men who don't eat meat] "Meat seems associated with strength and power, two features generally attributed to males," write the authors of a 2012†study published in the Journal of Consumer Research that examined why male consumers avoid vegetarian options. In another study, published in the journal Psychology of Men and Masculinity, researchers linked eating meat with "manhood, power, and virility" and found that men were more likely than women to "endorse pro-meat attitudes" and believed it was "human destiny to eat meat." But times are changing. A growing number of male business executives and political leaders, including former President Bill Clinton and Newark Mayor Cory Booker, are breaking gender expectations and embracing the vegetarian or vegan lifestyle. It's a trend ó first pinpointed in a 2010 Businessweek article titled "The Rise of the Power Vegans" ó that parallels mounting public awareness about the damaging effects of meat consumption on health and the environment. For some, the welfare of factory-farmed animals is also a concern. Conversely, "chick foods" like kale and soy products are growing in popularity. In the United States, vegetarians are still rare: Only 5% of American adults say they are vegetarian, according to a 2012 Gallup study, and just 2% of people consider themselves vegan ó people who don't eat any ingredients that come from an animal, including eggs, milk, and honey. While the percentage of vegetarians has remained the same over the last decade, this pattern may slowly change as tofu and salads became more fashionable among America's male movers and shakers.
AP ImagesRobert KhuzamiThe revolving door continues... The Securities and Exchange Commission's ex-Enforcement Director Robert Khuzami is now earning a lucrative paycheck at a big corporate law firm, the New York Times reports. From the NYT:¬† Six months later, lawyers briefed on the matter say, Mr. Khuzami has accepted a job that pays more than $5 million a year at Kirkland &amp; Ellis, one of the nation‚Äôs biggest corporate law firms. According to the report, that salary is guaranteed for at least two years. That's much better than a regulator's paycheck. After Khuzami's left the SEC earlier this year, he received a bunch of calls from several top corporate law firms and financial behemoths such as Ray Dalio's Bridgewater Associates and Visa, the report said.¬† Prior to joining the SEC in 2009, Khuzami worked as a federal prosecutor for 11 years with the U.S. Attorney‚Äôs Office for the Southern District of New York. He also worked at Deutsche Bank.¬†
If you're looking for signs of the adtech bubble popping, then we may have found a couple for you. Three high-profile adtech companies went public in the last year and a half ‚Äî¬†Mobile ad network Millennial Media, online-ad provider Marin Software and video-ad server Tremor Video ‚Äî and all have seen their stocks largely rejected by investors, even while the broader market rises. Here's a summary of public adtech stocks, based on their IPOs (or historic highs) and their current prices: You could add Groupon into the mix too. It debuted at $26.90, and is now worth only $8.90. All these companies are chronically unprofitable. The Velti situation is most worrying ‚Äî its revenues are down too and the company is in turnaround mode. So what is going on here? Ad Age suggests that Wall Street doesn't understand adtech. Three CEOs of the above companies say their top priorities are to explain to investors how their business models work. They have complicated tech operations, and sometimes the metrics are difficult to understand. Luma Partners CEO Terence Kawaja says the companies that have gone public aren't the cream of the crop. "Not the best of the companies in their categories are going out first," he said. And, of course, there's the "scale" problem. Generally, folks at tech startups regard scaling-up as their top priority, not revenue. Get the users or the audience first, and worry about how to monetize it later. It's a sign of Silicon Valley's financial immaturity. That lack of sophistication is now coming home to roost: Trendy startup founders may be disdainful of revenue models, but investors sure are not. Shareholders are telling CEOs that, basically, they're delusional if they think that metrics, scale and reach are more important that revenues and net income. The proof here is the one public adtech company that is the exception to the rule: Opera Software. Opera debuted at NKR 23.20, and is now trading nicely at 46.40. Why? Take a look at its financials: It's profitable.

enter_Tpc via FlickrThe FHFA home price index climbed 0.7% month-over-month in May. This was just shy of expectations for a 0.8% rise. Meanwhile, April's reading was revised down to show a 0.5% rise in the HPI, down from an initial estimate of 0.7%. While homebuilder confidence has been coming in strong, we've had some disappointing housing data more recently.  Housing starts fell in June and the previous month's numbers were revised down as well. Existing home sales missed expectations as well. Experts are also worried about the impact that higher mortgage rates could have on the housing recovery. Home price gains have marched forward this year, but some like Michelle Meyer and Paul Diggle at Capital Economics warn that the pace of home price growth will slow in the second half of the year. The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) House Price Index (HPI) covers single-family housing, using data provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannCarsten Schloter, the CEO of Switzerland's largest phone company Swisscom, was found dead in a suspected suicide, Bloomberg reports. Schloter's body was found in his Freiburg home, and police said there was a "very high" probability¬†he killed himself, a police spokesman told Bloomberg. Swisscom is ‚Äúdeeply saddened and pass on their condolences to the family and relatives,‚Äù Chairman Hansueli Loosli said in the statement. The 49-year-old Schloter joined Swisscom in 2000 and became chief executive in 2006, according to Bloomberg.
APIn three separate polls, President Barack Obama's approval rating has plunged to its lowest point in at least a year, as he is set to embark on a national tour to give speeches on the economy. In a new McClatchy-Marist poll, Obama's approval rating has sunk to its lowest point in nearly two years at 41%. A new ABC News-Washington Post poll showed his approval rating slipping below 50% for the first time since last September. And a Public Policy Polling survey set to be released later Tuesday promises his lowest numbers since his disastrous performance in the first presidential debate last October. Both of the polls released show his approval ratings to be much higher than those of Congress, collectively. In the Real Clear Politics average of polling, Obama's approval sits at 45.7% in an average of six polls. Here's a look at how his numbers have shifted since re-election: Real Clear Politics In the McClatchy-Marist poll, Obama's approval rating sunk to its lowest point since September 2011 ó right after a bruising fight over raising the nation's debt ceiling. That's a debate that is coming up again soon. For Obama, the only solace in the polls is that going into the important budget debates ó and amid the continuing fight over immigration reform†ó Obama's approval rating sits much higher than that of Congressional Republicans. In the McClatchy-Marist poll, their approval rating sits at a dreadful 22%. And in the WaPo-ABC survey, many more would blame Republicans than Obama if an immigration deal doesn't get done.
Stuart Franklin/Getty ImagesApple and Tiger Woods have a lot in common, Jay Yarow says. Click for the story.Wall Street isn't expecting much from Apple's June quarter, which the company will report today. And those low expectations are probably a good thing. Because they give the company an opportunity to surprise on the upside. Alas, Apple's June quarter results will only be important to the extent that they offer clues about Apple's future results, including the September quarter. And here, says Wall Street's top Apple analyst, Gene Munster, the news is going to be startlingly bad. Wall Street's current estimate for Apple's revenue in the September quarter is $38 billion. Munster thinks Apple will issue "guidance" of only $34 billion to $36 billion. That's a big haircut. This weak outlook, Munster says, will be the result of crappy iPad sales. By now, Munster and other Wall Street analysts had expected Apple to release a new iPad. There has been no news on that front. So some of the iPad sales that Munster had expected the company to make in the September quarter now will get pushed into future quarters or just won't happen at all. Revenue of $35 billion in the September quarter (the midpoint of the expected guidance range) would represent revenue shrinkage of about 2% year over year. For those who have followed Apple closely over the last 5-7 years, that fact is so startling as to be almost unfathomable. Last year in the first quarter, Apple's revenue growth rate was a staggering 60%. And the company had been growing at similarly mind-blowing rates for years. By this year's first quarter, however, Apple's growth had decelerated to 11%. And Munster and Wall Street think that, in the June quarter, Apple's revenue will begin to shrink, with revenue dropping about 2% year over year. This is what can happen in the tech industry, which is driven by product cycles. Over the past 5-6 years, Apple has ridden two huge product cycles--iPhones and iPads. But now both of those produce cycles have entered their mature years. And Apple has not introduced any major new products to take up the slack. (Apple, in fact, has not introduced any new products period since the fourth quarter of last year). As weak as Apple's revenues are, they look great relative to the company's earnings. This quarter, Munster expects Apple's earnings per share to fall a startling 25% year over year. This fall will be driven by the revenue decline and, more strongly, by Apple's profit margin decline, which we wrote about yesterday. Munster expects Apple's earnings to fall another 16% in the September quarter. Putting all this together, it's no surprise that Apple's stock has cratered more than 40% from its high last fall. Back then, even the biggest Apple bears (and there weren't many), weren't imagining that Apple's revenue growth would stop and that Apple's earnings would collapse. The good news for shareholders (I'm one) is that Gene Munster and other analysts expect Apple to release a bunch of new products this fall, including a new iPhone (the iPhone 5S) and a new iPad. Munster also thinks that Apple will release a cheaper iPhone, which he thinks will help drive a strong increase in iPhone sales and overall revenue in this year's December quarter. There have been reports recently that Apple is experimenting with larger-sized screens for both the iPhone and iPad, which would certainly be greeted with excitement. And there's always the possibility that, in 2014, Apple will finally release a new category of product, such as its long-expected TV set or the iWatch. Munster expects that excitement around the fall's new products will drive Apple's stock higher by the end of the year. SEE ALSO: A Detailed Preview Of Apple's No Good Horrible Hopeless Quarter
REUTERS/Wang Zhao/PoolChinese Premier Li Keqiang speaks during a meeting with business leaders who will be attending the upcoming Fortune Global Forum, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing June 5, 2013. The Fortune Global Forum takes place in Chengdu, Sichuan province, from June 6 to 8.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Forget Gordon Gekko. Old-style City traders are being replaced by maths geniuses who use super-computers to beat the markets. But are 'quants‚Äô a force for good or evil? At seven minutes past one on the afternoon of Tuesday April 23 this year a tweet from the AP news agency in Washington was published. It read ‚ÄúBreaking: Two Explosions in the White House and Barack Obama is injured.‚Äù This was not true ‚Äì the AP account had been hacked by a shady group of technology nerds calling themselves The Syrian Electronic Army ‚Äì but within milliseconds the tweet had been noticed and flagged by trading computers on Wall Street. Programmed to scan the internet for words or phrases that might affect stock markets, the unthinking machines had immediately seized upon the tweet, noted the proximity of the words ‚ÄúObama‚Äù, ‚Äúexplosions‚Äù and ‚ÄúWhite House‚Äù and unleashed a torrent of trades. Within seconds, the Dow Jones had plunged 140 points and more than $200 billion of capital had been wiped out. A few minutes later the report was exposed as a hoax and the markets quickly returned to their pre-tweet levels. But, to many, the idea that one fake tweet could have such an enormous impact on the financial markets was incredible. Who was running Wall Street? Humans or machines? If you thought ‚Äúhumans‚Äù, you were woefully out of date. Over the past decade or so there has been a technological coup d‚Äôetat on the trading floor. The old ‚ÄúMasters of the Universe‚Äù ‚Äì the Gordon Gekko types with their slicked-back hair and $5,000 suits ‚Äì have been superseded by unbelievably powerful computers capable of analysing vast amounts of data and buying or selling shares in the blink of an eye. Today, if you visit a trading floor, instead of pumped-up men in loose ties screaming down the phone, you are more likely to see rows of studious-looking people (most of them still men) sitting in front of computer screens, quietly monitoring trades being carried out on their behalf by machines. Around 70% of the orders to buy or sell on Wall Street are now placed by software programs, and the studious-looking people, mathematical geniuses who are responsible for writing these programs, are the new ‚Äúsmartest guys in the room‚Äù. It is the age of the algorithm. Mathematicians made their first forays into the financial world in the late Sixties. Edward Thorp, a professor of mathematics at the University of California, published a book in 1967 called Beat the Market in which he laid out what he claimed was a foolproof way of making money on the stock market, all based on a system he had previously devised to beat casinos at blackjack. The blackjack system had been so successful it had forced casinos to change their rules and Beat the Market ‚Äì which had to do with selling stocks and bonds at one price and buying them back at a lower price ‚Äì proved to be even more groundbreaking. In 1974, Thorp founded a hedge fund called Princeton/Newport Partners and proceeded to make a killing on the¬†markets. At the same time, the job prospects for scientists had nosedived. Since the 1969 moon landing, the American government had cut funding for science programmes and diverted it to the war in Vietnam. ‚ÄúA generation of physicists who had gone to graduate school left with their PhDs and entered a severely depressed job market,‚Äù explains James Owen Weatherall, author of The Physics of Finance. They had to earn a living somehow, and, seeing how much money that there was to be made on Wall Street, many decided to move into finance. In Britain, the fall of the Soviet Union led to an influx of Warsaw Pact scientists. In both cases, these scientists brought with them a new methodology based on analysing data and also a faith that, using sufficient computing firepower, it was possible to predict the market. It was the start of a new discipline, quantitative analysis, and the most famous ‚Äúquant‚Äù of all was a shambling donnish maths genius with a scraggly beard and aversion to socks called Jim Simons. For those who know their physics, Simons is a living legend. A piece of mathematics he co-created, the Chern-Simons 3-form, is one of the most important elements of string theory, the so-called ‚Äútheory of everything‚Äù. Highly academic, Simons never seemed the sort of person who would gravitate to the earthy environs of Wall Street. But in 1982, he founded an extraordinarily successful hedge fund management company, Renaissance Technologies, whose signature fund, Medallion, went on to earn an incredible 2,478.6 per cent return in its first 10 years, way above every other hedge fund on the planet, including George Soros‚Äôs Quantum Fund. Its success, based on a highly complex and secretive algorithm, continued in the Noughties and over the lifetime of the fund, Medallion‚Äôs returns have averaged 40 per cent a year, making Simons one of the richest men in the world with a net worth in excess of $10billion. Of his 200 employees, ensconced in a fortress-like building in unfashionable Long Island, New York, a third have PhDs, not in finance, but in fields like physics, mathematics and statistics. Renaissance has been called ‚Äúthe best physics and mathematics department in the world‚Äù and, according to Weatherall, ‚Äúavoids hiring anyone with even the slightest whiff of Wall Street bona fides. PhDs in finance need not apply; nor should traders who got their start at traditional investment banks or even other hedge funds. The secret to Simons‚Äôs success has been steering clear of the financial experts.‚Äù Not surprisingly, old-style traders hate the quants. Not only have they pushed them off the top of the trading tree, there is also a basic clash of cultures. They are not flash and, invariably, rather awkward socially. As one anonymous software salesman who deals with hedge funds relates on a blog: ‚ÄúThey don‚Äôt do small talk. When one of them picks me up from reception and we ride the elevator, I have learnt not to start chatting away about, say, the weather. They simply don‚Äôt seem to understand. They think you‚Äôre attempting to communicate something apparently important about meteorological conditions. Same thing with innocent jokes‚Ä¶ blank stares.‚Äù So what exactly do quantitative analysts do? Patrick Boyle and Jesse McDougall run a hedge fund which they operate out of an Islington town house. Their offices are next to the sort of ethical caf√© whose owners would probably be horrified at the rampant capitalism on display next door. When I meet them they are seated in a small room dominated by three computer screens. They start work at seven in the morning and end around 11 at night. ‚ÄúWe have computer screens in our kitchen and living room,‚Äù says Boyle, 37. ‚ÄúSo we can monitor the markets while having dinner and we can log in remotely if we are out in the evening.‚Äù He shows me a chart tracking his fund‚Äôs performance. The line doesn‚Äôt dip when the rest of the market dips and rises faster than the FTSE. How do they do it? ‚ÄúWe do it with maths,‚Äù he says. ‚ÄúWe buy stock market data and we analyse it. It‚Äôs like weather forecasting ‚Äì we can say that there is a 65 per cent probability that the market will be up between open and close, so we are able to have better than 50 per cent odds on short-term movements and over time if you call short term well, you can make money.‚Äù Who wrote the computer program they use? ‚ÄúI did,‚Äù says Boyle. How do you write something like that? ‚ÄúSlowly.‚Äù The writing of the program may be slow but the speed of transactions is super fast. Some quants specialise in what is called High Frequency Trading (HFT), which involves large numbers of trades over very short periods of time. ‚ÄúIn one millisecond the price could go up by one penny,‚Äù says McDougall. ‚ÄúYou do it thousands of times on hundreds of shares and you make money.‚Äù Boyle and McDougall‚Äôs hedge fund doesn‚Äôt do high frequency trades, so to find out more I meet Simon Jones, who was running the quants desk at a major bank up until a few months ago. He is 36 years old. ‚ÄúThe guys and women who worked with me were the best of the best. They came from all over the world: from India, Russia and China.‚Äù The job was intense and highly competitive. ‚ÄúLet‚Äôs say I have noticed that the moment the Dow goes up the FTSE goes up,‚Äù says Jones. ‚ÄúThe first person to notice that and make a trade can make money but to do that means getting the data from New York to London and then getting my trading decision across the Atlantic and me buying my FTSE before anyone else does.‚Äù In this game speed is critical and that has led to what has been dubbed an arms race between firms. It has got to a point where firms have actually started moving their servers¬†nearer to an exchange to speed up connection times. In 2010, a company called Spread Networks laid a new direct cable between New York and Chicago, going straight through the Allegheny mountains, which shaved a little bit more than 1,000th of a second off the transmission time between stock exchanges. For the opportunity to use a similarly fast tube between New York and London, Jones‚Äôs old bank was asked to pay $50 million. ‚ÄúIt would have given us an advantage over others of about a six thousandths of one second,‚Äù says Jones. This focus on the shortest of short-term gains has vastly increased volatility. ‚ÄúWarren Buffett owns shares in Coca-Cola and when they go down he says 'I‚Äôm holding on to them because I think they will go back up‚Äô,‚Äù says Jones. ‚ÄúBut the HFT guy, all he cares about is the next millisecond. And when too many people start panicking about the next millisecond that‚Äôs when you have a crash.‚Äù The perfect example of such a crash took place on May 6 2010. So many shares were traded that day that the online trading section of the New York Stock Exchange temporarily froze and between 2.30pm and 3pm the Dow Jones lost and then regained nearly $1 trillion. In what became known as the ‚ÄúFlash Crash‚Äù, shares in the management consultancy firm Accenture plummeted to a fraction above zero . Apple shares went up to $100,000. ‚ÄúNone of us knew what to do or what would happen next,‚Äù says Dave Lauer, a quant who was working on a HFT desk that day. ‚ÄúIt was terrifying.‚Äù For Lauer, the Flash Crash was a wake-up call. ‚ÄúI started to see how the race to be fastest had left things in a very fragile state,‚Äù he tells me. The following year his wife revealed she was pregnant which prompted him to make a big decision. ‚ÄúI remember thinking, 'How will I explain to my future child what I do for a living?‚Äô‚Äù Lauer quit his job and last year told the Senate Banking committee that High Frequency Trading had brought the market to crisis point. The Flash Crash was partly caused by the HFT strategy of ‚Äúspoofing‚Äù; making bogus offers to buy or sell shares to flush out the intentions of rivals. On the day, an astonishing 19.4 billion shares were traded, more than were traded in the entirety of the Sixties, but hundreds of millions of them were never actually sold; they were merely held for a few thousandths of a second as traders tested the waters. Isn‚Äôt there something wrong with a system that promotes so much volatility to the benefit of no one except a handful of hedge funds? Can it be a meaningful investment of time¬†and technology? Warren Buffett‚Äôs business partner, Charlie Munger, has¬†described High Frequency Trading as ‚Äúbasically evil‚Äù. ‚ÄúI think it is very stupid to allow a system to evolve where half of the trading is a bunch of short-term people trying to get information one millionth of a nanosecond ahead of somebody else,‚Äù he said earlier this year. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs legalised front-running.‚Äù HFT is certainly of no clear benefit to everyday investors - savers in pension funds and life policies. The quants I meet don‚Äôt believe what they do is necessarily dangerous but they do voice some doubts. ‚ÄúSome of the guys who come from pure science and maths backgrounds are used to solving a problem and it works,‚Äù Patrick Boyle says. ‚ÄúThey think they can find a formula that will perfectly describe how the market moves. That is the philosopher‚Äôs stone ‚Äì it is utterly impossible.‚Äù The danger is that in only seeing numbers and patterns the human dimension is forgotten. After 16 years in the City, Simon Jones is now planning to go travelling. ‚ÄúA quant can earn up to seven figures,‚Äù he tells me, ‚Äúbut sometimes I do wonder whether I contributed positively to society.‚Äù And what does he conclude? He pauses. ‚ÄúI was working with the best of the best,‚Äù he says. ‚ÄúMy bank employed the brightest engineers, chemists and scientists ‚Äì and we were all working together to get richer. The chemical and physics and health industries are worse off because of what we do because I tell you this: if there was a pay bonus structure similar to what we had in the City for curing cancer, we‚Äôd have found a cure for cancer.‚Äù I find that sad and a little bit frightening. So, I ask, quants: good or bad? Jones looks at me and says, ‚ÄúHumans just found a new way of being greedy.‚Äù 
One of the big stories of the day is the 2% rally in China, which was spurred by comments from Premier Li Keqiang about a "bottom line" or a "floor" for GDP growth that would not be violated. In other words, leadership is concerned about the slowing, and will seek to avoid a "hard landing." In a research note, BofA/ML analyst Ting Lu dives deep into the premier's comments to ascertain what, exactly, is the economic goal of Chinese policy. 7.5% is the growth floor for 2013 For 2013, Mr. Li made it very clear that the growth floor is 7.5% and inflation cap is 3.5%. He is committed to delivering the 7.5% growth target while containing CPI inflation at below 3.5%. Mr. Li sees the falling trend of growth and he sets an average 7.0% growth floor for 2013-20. We reckon that Mr. Li might set 7.0% as growth floor (also target) and 4.0% as inflation cap for 2014. The transcript fully confirmed our out-of-consensus calls in ìLi Keqiang Putî (12 July) in which we argued that Mr. Liís growth floor is 7.5% for 2013. As many Street economists had thought that the growth floor was 7.0% for 2H13, the markets could underestimate Mr. Liís determination, policy measures and growth prospects in 2H13. Restructuring to stabilize growth, a small fiscal expansion On policy, Mr. Li recognizes that growth is approaching the 7.5% floor at the moment, but he sees no room on monetary easing and he will use supply-side measures to bolster growth without worsening existing structural problems. But from his policy details we reckon that he could introduce a small scale fiscal expansion by tapping the central government coffer to support social housing, railway, environment related urban infrastructure such as sewage and IT infrastructure such as broadband and 4G. The whole framework can basically be summarized in this chart, which shows the Chinese "Philips Curve", a classic concept in economics which indicates that there's a tradeoff between fast growth and hot inflation. The shaded area in the middle is where China will be aiming. BofA/ML
The net effect is to expand the size of the US economy by 3%. But BBW‚Äôs Peter Coy points out that ‚Äúeconomic theory is ahead of accounting practice‚Äù and with the right yardsticks, even more of the intangible economy would go on the books: ¬†The U.S. generates a disproportionate share of its wealth from the likes of patents, copyrights, trademarks, designs, cultural creations, and business processes. ‚Ä¶¬†If all forms of intangible investment were officially recorded, they would exceed investment in bricks, mortar, and machines, according to estimates by economists Carol Corrado of the Conference Board and Charles Hulten of the University of Maryland. Intangibles include brand-building, worker training, and the development of advanced organizational practices like total quality management, which meet the definition of an investment because they create assets that will produce revenue a year or more in the future, says Hulten. Those, however, will continue to be treated by the government as expenses. Brent Moulton, the BEA‚Äôs associate director for national economic accounts, says their investment nature can‚Äôt yet be measured accurately enough to use as official data. 1. Maybe the US economy is stronger and Americans richer than we think, explaining the disconnect between job growth and GDP growth 2. ¬†Poor accounting tools also suggest GDP and productivity numbers are understating US innovation, even beyond all the free online goods¬†that don‚Äôt make it into the official data.
‚Äì John Maynard Keynes A Temporary Problem Back in 2010, a number of analysts (including me) noted an unintended consequence buried in the Affordable Healthcare Act (aka ObamaCare). Employers are not required to provide insurance for temporary workers, and a temporary worker is defined as someone who works under 29 hours per week. Many of us noted that this would result in businesses shifting workers from full-time to part-time. The answer from AHA supporters was that "No, it wouldn't" or that the effect would be small. There was no real way to know, of course. I and others could only point to our experience of how the real world works. If you defined the cut-off for part-time work at 35 or 39 hours a week instead of 29, the economics of ObamaCare simply got blown out of the water. But the bill passed, and now it's law. And now the argument is over. It is clear that businesses have indeed responded to the rather perverse incentives in the law. A year ago, growth in full-time employment far outpaced increases in temporary employment. That trend has reversed this year. Mort Zuckerman wrote in an op-ed piece in the Wall Street Journal this week: The jobless nature of the recovery is particularly unsettling. In June, the government's Household Survey reported that since the start of the year, the number of people with jobs increased by 753,000 ‚Äì but there are jobs and then there are "'jobs."' No fewer than 557,000 of these positions were only part-time. The June survey reported that in June full time jobs declined by 240,000, while part-time jobs soared 360,000 and have now reached an all-time high of 28,059,000 ‚Äì three million more part-time positions than when the recession began at the end of 2007. That's just for starters. The survey includes part-time workers who want full-time work but can't get it, as well as those who want to work but have stopped looking. That puts the real unemployment rate for June at 14.3%, up from 13.8% in May. The US Chamber of Commerce summarizes the situation: "Small businesses expect the AHA requirement to negatively impact their employees. Twenty-seven percent say they will cut hours to reduce full-time employees, 24 percent will reduce hiring, and 23 percent plan to replace full-time employees with part-time workers to avoid triggering the mandate." Younger people and those whose jobs could readily be farmed out to plenty of potential replacements are in danger. There are many jobs that can almost as easily be done by two people working 20-25 hours as by person working 40-50 hours. And that is what is happening. As Zuckerman notes, if you count those who have only temporary employment though they want full-time work, the unemployment rate rose last month from 13.8% to 14.3%. This is recovery? I have seen this happen in my own family (and to a union member, no less!). How can you support yourself on a part-time job? Juggling two part-time jobs takes a lot more than 40 hours a week and increases the costs of getting to and from work. And under the AHA, the government, not the employer(s), is going to have to pick up that bill if a part-time worker is going to have health insurance. Republicans want to repeal ObamaCare. Many are not interested in anything short of that outcome. Democrats don't want to change anything and won't touch legislative fixes, afraid to be seen as opening up the whole issue before the next mid-term elections. But we are seriously damaging the ability of people to get work and be able to support themselves and especially the opportunity for younger people to get work that can result in acquiring skills and moving upward on the income scale. The definition of part-time should revert to the traditional standard: if you work less than 40 hours a week, you are part-time. I get that that destroys the economics of ObamaCare. But do we want to see our children as unintended casualties in a political war over healthcare? A bill has been introduced to fix this problem in the Senate. The US Chamber of Commerce survey is telling us the direction we are currently headed in. Do we really want to wait until things get even worse? And now, let's think about inflation, together with my co-author, Jonathan Tepper. Any Bonds Today? Can you imagine Julia Roberts and Gwyneth Paltrow helping the US government sell bonds or Jay Z and Justin Timberlake composing songs about Treasury bills? It would not be the first time Hollywood stars or famous musicians tried to help the government sell its debt. The last time the US government had an enormous load of debt, it used Hollywood stars to help sell government debt. The Treasury Department conducted a massive public relations campaign through radio, newspapers, and film. During World War II, war bond rallies were held throughout the country, and Hollywood stars such as Bette Davis and Rita Hayworth traveled around the country to promote war bonds. The great Irving Berlin even wrote a song titled "Any Bonds Today?" and Berlin's tune became the theme song of the Treasury Department's National Defense Savings Program. The government also enlisted cartoon characters, actors, comedians, and musicians to encourage people to pay income taxes. Donald Duck told viewers it was their "duty and privilege" to pay income tax. Abbott and Costello appeared in advertisements to get people to pay taxes, and Irving Berlin wrote songs not only about bonds but songs about taxes like "I Paid My Income Tax Today." While the war bond and income tax drives garnered all the press, the real reason the US was able to borrow so much and with so little burden had nothing to do with the glitz and glamor of movie stars. The US government borrowed easily because the Federal Reserve printed money to keep interest rates low. Borrowing is very easy when a central bank has your back. How did it work in practice? As is the case today, the Treasury wanted to borrow cheaply then, and the central bank was happy to accommodate. In 1942, after the United States entered World War II, the Federal Reserve officially agreed to fix interest rates on government bonds at a low level. To maintain the pegged rate, the Fed was forced to give up control of the size of its balance sheet. Unsurprisingly, the Fed bought and held all available short-term US treasuries and almost all long-term government bonds. The costs of paying for World War II pushed the national debt up sharply, from around 40% of GDP before the war to a peak of nearly 110% as the war ended. But a combination of strong economic growth, tight fiscal policies, and financial repression brought the debt back below 50% of GDP by the late 1950s. (Currently our government debt has reached about 90% of GDP and continues climbing very sharply.) During the war years, the Federal Reserve pegged long-term interest rates at extremely low levels so the government wouldn't have to pay much to fund itself. To make sure that inflation didn't spike, the government instituted wage and price controls. After the war, the price controls disappeared and inflation rose very quickly, averaging about 6.5 percent annually from 1946-51. By the postwar price peak nine years later, wholesale prices had more than doubled, and the stock of money had nearly tripled. Normally, such high inflation would have made it much more expensive for the government to borrow money. But after being pressured by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve agreed to keep on pegging long-term government bond yields at 2.5% until the spring of 1951, when the Federal Reserve finally refused to print money to keep bond yields low. Because of the coordination between Federal Reserve and the US Treasury, real yields on government bonds were very negative during the years following World War II. With negative real yields, borrowers win and lenders lose. The clear winner was the US government, and the loser was anyone who bought and held US bonds. The combination of very low government bond borrowing costs and high inflation ate away a sizable chunk of the government's debt burden. The same thing is happening today in almost all government bond markets around the world. Governments are winning, and investors are losing. The Federal Reserve is helping the Treasury to borrow cheaply while the government expands its deficit spending and debt accumulation. Using inflation and low bond yields this way to reduce government debt is called financial repression. The government and central banks also contribute to higher inflation by pretending inflation is always under control. For example, throughout the Greenspan and Bernanke years, the Fed consistently chose to focus on lower inflation measures whenever doing so suited the central bank. You can see this in the semiannual monetary policy reports to Congress, specifically in the inflation forecasts made by the members of the Federal Open Market Committee. Until July 1988, inflation forecasts used the implicit deflator of the gross national product, but then the Fed switched to the Consumer Price Index. In February 2000, the Fed replaced CPI with the personal consumption expenditures (PCE) deflator. Thus from July 2004 onward, inflation forecasts have employed the core PCE deflator that excludes food and energy prices. Using lower and lower, less comprehensive estimates for inflation has allowed the Fed to pretend that it is meeting its mandate ‚Äì but by ignoring high inflation readings. In the meantime, interest rates have been kept too low, and the inflation rate has consistently remained above the Federal Funds rate. But measuring inflation is not so easy. The vast majority of readers have no idea about the rather contentious nature of the debates that go on in academic conferences about arcane topics such as the minutiae of how to measure some minor aspect of inflation. Passions run deep. Careers are made. Once you delve into how things are actually done, you realize that what we think of as an inflation number is actually an approximation of an idea the very definition of which can change over time. Your perception of inflation (and everyone else's) has a very close relationship to how stock markets perform over time. Indeed, one of the questions we are both regularly asked wherever we speak is something along the lines of "What do you think inflation or deflation will be?" And the answer is not easy: it depends on a number of factors that vary from country to country. In general, the trend for the last 75 years has been one of inflation. Sometimes, in some countries, inflation has spun out of control. At other times you see outright deflation. Neither one promises good times for investors. Ever-falling inflation or low inflation is the best environment for investing. But given the paramount importance of the inflation/deflation debate, we need to briefly investigate what inflation is and is not. To continue reading this article from Thoughts from the Frontline ‚Äì a free weekly publication by John Mauldin, renowned financial expert, best-selling author, and Chairman of Mauldin Economics ‚Äì please click here. ¬© 2013 Mauldin Economics. All Rights Reserved. Thoughts from the Frontline¬†is a free weekly economic e-letter by best-selling author and renowned financial expert, John Mauldin. You can learn more and get your free subscription by visiting¬†www.MauldinEconomics.com. Please write to¬†subscribers@mauldineconomics.com¬†to inform us of any reproductions, including when and where copy will be reproduced. You must keep the letter intact, from introduction to disclaimers. If you would like to quote brief portions only, please reference¬†www.MauldinEconomics.com. To subscribe to John Mauldin's e-letter, please click here:¬†http://www.mauldineconomics.com/subscribeTo change your email address, please click here:¬†http://www.mauldineconomics.com/change-address Thoughts From the Frontline¬†and MauldinEconomics.com is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and those that he interviews. Any views expressed are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest and is not in any way a testimony of, or associated with, Mauldin's other firms. John Mauldin is the Chairman of Mauldin Economics, LLC. He also is the President and registered representative of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA) which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states, President and registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS) member¬†FINRA¬†and¬†SIPC, through which securities may be offered. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as well as an Introducing Broker (IB) and NFA Member. Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. This message may contain information that is confidential or privileged and is intended only for the individual or entity named above and does not constitute an offer for or advice about any alternative investment product. Such advice can only be made when accompanied by a prospectus or similar offering document. Past performance is not indicative of future performance. Please make sure to review important disclosures at the end of each article. Mauldin companies may have a marketing relationship with products and services mentioned in this letter for a fee. Note: Joining The Mauldin Circle is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and Millennium Wave Investments. It is intended solely for investors who have registered with Millennium Wave Investments and its partners at http://www.MauldinCircle.com (formerly AccreditedInvestor.ws) or directly related websites. The Mauldin Circle may send out material that is provided on a confidential basis, and subscribers to the Mauldin Circle are not to send this letter to anyone other than their professional investment counselors. Investors should discuss any investment with their personal investment counsel. John Mauldin is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA), which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states. John Mauldin is a registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS), an FINRA registered broker-dealer. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as well as an Introducing Broker (IB). Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. Millennium Wave Investments cooperates in the consulting on and marketing of private and non-private investment offerings with other independent firms such as Altegris Investments; Capital Management Group; Absolute Return Partners, LLP; Fynn Capital; Nicola Wealth Management; and Plexus Asset Management. Investment offerings recommended by Mauldin may pay a portion of their fees to these independent firms, who will share 1/3 of those fees with MWS and thus with Mauldin. Any views expressed herein are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest with any CTA, fund, or program mentioned here or elsewhere. Before seeking any advisor's services or making an investment in a fund, investors must read and examine thoroughly the respective disclosure document or offering memorandum. Since these firms and Mauldin receive fees from the funds they recommend/market, they only recommend/market products with which they have been able to negotiate fee arrangements. PAST RESULTS ARE NOT INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS. THERE IS RISK OF LOSS AS WELL AS THE OPPORTUNITY FOR GAIN WHEN INVESTING IN MANAGED FUNDS. WHEN CONSIDERING ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS, INCLUDING HEDGE FUNDS, YOU SHOULD CONSIDER VARIOUS RISKS INCLUDING THE FACT THAT SOME PRODUCTS: OFTEN ENGAGE IN LEVERAGING AND OTHER SPECULATIVE INVESTMENT PRACTICES THAT MAY INCREASE THE RISK OF INVESTMENT LOSS, CAN BE ILLIQUID, ARE NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE PERIODIC PRICING OR VALUATION INFORMATION TO INVESTORS, MAY INVOLVE COMPLEX TAX STRUCTURES AND DELAYS IN DISTRIBUTING IMPORTANT TAX INFORMATION, ARE NOT SUBJECT TO THE SAME REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AS MUTUAL FUNDS, OFTEN CHARGE HIGH FEES, AND IN MANY CASES THE UNDERLYING INVESTMENTS ARE NOT TRANSPARENT AND ARE KNOWN ONLY TO THE INVESTMENT MANAGER. Alternative investment performance can be volatile. An investor could lose all or a substantial amount of his or her investment. Often, alternative investment fund and account managers have total trading authority over their funds or accounts; the use of a single advisor applying generally similar trading programs could mean lack of diversification and, consequently, higher risk. There is often no secondary market for an investor's interest in alternative investments, and none is expected to develop. You are advised to discuss with your financial advisers your investment options and whether any investment is suitable for your specific needs prior to making any investments. All material presented herein is believed to be reliable but we cannot attest to its accuracy. Opinions expressed in these reports may change without prior notice. John Mauldin and/or the staffs may or may not have investments in any funds cited above as well as economic interest. John Mauldin can be reached at 800-829-7273.
Earlier we mentioned that Spain was rallying nicely, thanks to a GDP report that indicated that the economy is barely shrinking. It looks like France is recovering too. A measure of industrial morale indicated 4 straight months of gains. From Reuters: French industrial morale rose slightly more than expected in July to its highest in over a year, offering more evidence that a fragile recovery is taking hold in the euro zone's second-biggest economy. The official INSEE statistics agency said its monthly industry morale indicator improved for the fourth month in a row to reach 95, from 93 in June, beating economists' average expectation for 94. Though still some distance from a long-term average of 100, the increase brought the indicator to its highest point since May 2012. An improving economic outlook prompted President Francois Hollande to declare this month that recovery is underway though unemployment remains at record high levels. This chart, from the official report, shows the breakout in the index since the start of the year. Insee
The big winner today is Spain. The stock market, as measured by the IBEX 35, is up 1.6%. Bloomberg GDP in the second quarter shrunk merely 0.1%, which was an improvement from the 0.5% shrinkage in Q1. It would appear that the country will soon see some growth. Obviously this is good news that things aren't accelerating to the downside, and might actually improve. But as with many other parts of the periphery, the damage that's been done is so bad, it remains a question whether enough growth can come to quell political anger among the public.
Lumber futures turned out to be a good predictor of US housing starts. The large decline earlier this year (see post) translated into weaker than expected residential construction in June (see post). That means we should certainly pay close attention to lumber as a leading indicator. And July is showing a steady increase in prices, potentially pointing to improving demand. SoberLook After a disappointing result in June, is construction picking up this month ? Many economists think so. The key data that researchers point to is the Homebuilders' survey, which is at the highest levels since 2006. SoberLook The index had certainly diverged from housing starts in the past, but the combination of this survey and higher lumber prices may be pointing to an improvement in residential construction for July. The US economy could certainly use it.
Chinese stocks staged a big rally in Tuesday trading. The most beaten down market in the world gained nearly 2%. Shanghai Composite, via Bloomberg Bloomberg What's going on? Nothing definitive. According to Nomura, the gains in China, and elsewhere in Asia were due to "reassuring words" from Li Keqiang: Markets remained relatively quiet as equities traded higher, led by Chinese and Japanese stock markets. In Japan, the Nikkei rallied on the Cabinet Office<U+201F>s report that said the economy is showing signs of a self-sustaining recovery. We note that the use of the word ìrecoveryî in the overall economic assessment appears for the first time in 10 months. In China, Premier Li Keqiang's statement that China<U+201F>s ìbottom lineî for economic growth is 7%, as reported by Beijing News today, provided some relief to investors concerned over a possible hard-landing.
I really like these thoughts by John Hussman regarding the narrow view around buy and hold investing. ¬†It reminded me of my post on the ‚ÄúPortfolio Manager Strategy Cycle‚Äù where buy and hold dominates everyone‚Äôs thinking near market peaks. I recall back in 2009 when I was saying that buy and hold was not dead at all and likely much more viable than most were saying back then. ¬†Of course, I also wish I‚Äôd listened to my own advice at the time as I‚Äôd be a much wealthier man today if I had. ¬†Of course, I wasn‚Äôt a buy and hold investor in 2009 any more so than I was in 2007. ¬†And my guess about the long-term directional trend was largely just luck. ¬†But that misses the point. ¬†In the following quote, Dr. Hussman discusses the importance of seeing the entire business cycle through and not falling for the trap of becoming too euphoric when things are good. ¬†As he says, buy and hold is wonderful if you can overlook the negative parts of the cycle: ‚ÄúThere are actually numerous investment disciplines that I believe are effective over the long-term,¬†including¬†a buy-and-hold approach. The problem, in my view, is that investors constantly switch their discipline when it isn‚Äôt performing well at the time. Since 2000, a buy-and-hold approach would have required an investor to suffer through one 50% market loss and a second, distinct 55% market loss. Frankly, I think another one of a similar order will complete the present market cycle. Over the very long-term, buy-and-hold investors have done fine, particularly combined with good value-conscious stock selection. But the drawdowns can be intolerably deep from our perspective, and the full-cycle returns following points of rich valuation tend to be particularly disappointing compensation. I expect that this will be true over the coming decade as well. Buy-and-hold has been wonderful if one‚Äôs attention is carefully restricted to the advancing half of the present, extraordinary, and unfinished cycle (or what is almost the same, the cycle-and-unfinished-half-cycle over the decade since 2003). Just as day follows night, buy-and-hold strategies reach the peak of their popularity at market tops, because those are the points where every effort in recent memory to sell or reduce risk has apparently failed. Conversely, buy-and-hold strategies are most reviled at bear market troughs, when the full weight of losses is felt. I have no argument¬†at all¬†with investors whose strategy adheres to a disciplined buy-and-hold, diversified across asset classes, over the full course of the market cycle. In contrast, I have great concern about investors who discover buy-and-hold at the top, and adhere to it only long enough to abandon it at the bottom. The most important part of a buy-and-hold discipline is the¬†commitment¬†to remain passive even as it experiences massive interim losses. Look, kid, I never said this was easy. The road to easy street runs through the sewer.‚Äù Of course, it depends on what kind of buy and hold you‚Äôre doing, but the general message is important ‚Äì don‚Äôt fall for the wrong strategy due to recency bias.
YouTube/bobsurgrannyThis no-drama rally continues. Without much volatility, or huge one day gains, stocks keep pushing higher. US futures are up moderately. Europe is up nicely, with Italy gaining 0.56%, Germany up a tad, and Spain up over 1%. Spanish GDP just came out, and it only shrunk 0.1%, which is a moderation of the slowing. In Asia, China surged nearly 2%, and Japan gained just under 1%. It's going to be a slow day data-wise in the US. The only number is FHFA home prices. But since housing is the center of the most concern right now (since we've had a few weak datapoints lately) this will garner a fair bit of attention.
