The economics website FRED has just added data on median household income and real median household income for all of the states plus the district of Columbia going back to 1984. It's a fun dataset that lets you see how various regions have evolved economically over the last three decades. Playing around with it quickly, we just made this fun chart. It shows median household income in Texas (red line), New York (Green Line), California (orange line), The U.S. overall (blue line) and Washington D.C. (black line). While various areas have peaked at different periods, the D.C. trend is clear, and in recent years, median incomes have absolutely exploded, leaving everyone else in the dust. FRED
The exuberance over the Fed's decision not to "taper" QE is wearing off. After the down day in the US, Japan is a bit lower. Nikkei.com
Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer spoke openly on Thursday about what it feels like to be leaving the company. And he hinted, as much as he could, that the next CEO is more likely to come from within Microsoft than not. "It's a little weird for me, to come to work and have it known," that he's leaving, he confessed during Microsoft's annual analyst meeting in Bellevue, Wash. About three years ago he told the board that he "was thinking about the day I might not work at Microsoft." The board asked him to get to know "all of the top people at our competitors" to try and scout out people who might succeed him, he said. So he did and he liked the folks at his own office better. "There is a lot of good talent out there but when I come home, I tell you, there is just an incredible group of talent at Microsoft that is competitive with everybody else in the industry, full stop, period," he said. Ballmer was also clearly trying to get his head around the fact that he'll soon be "just" an investor. "After I retire I'm just a guy that owns 4 percent of Microsoft and that's about 65, 70 percent of what I've ever owned." His wealth today is still mostly due to Microsoft stock. "I think I've sold five times in my life and bought once and I hold on and treasure my Microsoft stock. 70 percent of what I own is in Microsoft." He's not selling after he leaves, he says. And he certainly won't begrudge the CEO who follows him. "We'll bring in a new CEO and they'll have opinions and ideas and thoughts. And my greatest desire will be to see the company be so much more successful four or five years from now than it is today," he said.
REUTERS/Jason Reed U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke prepares to testify at a Joint Economic Committee hearing on the economic outlook, on Capitol Hill in Washington, October 4, 2011.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. What Advisors Should Take Away From The Fed's Decision (Vanguard)  With the Fed' exit strategy still unclear it was hard for advisors to know what to tell their clients. In this situation, Andrew Patterson at Vanguard recommends diversification to "offset large swings in equity returns." "The 'cushion' they provide may not be as thick as it has been in the past, but bonds do still provide protection in your clients' portfolios," he says.¬† The main takeaway for advisors then is that "tapering alone does not signal an increase in interest rates."¬† "Markets and economic conditions work to determine interest rates across the yield curve while monetary policy reacts to economic conditions. While interest rates will likely increase, we do not know with certainty when or at what speed. The Fed's exit strategy won't just zoom ahead once it's been placed in drive. Instead, the Fed will be constantly analyzing economic conditions and adjusting policy accordingly." TOM LEE: The Fed Decision Revealed Traders' Hands, And Now I See Four Supports To The Stock Market (JP Morgan) JP Morgan analyst Tom Lee has been bullish on stocks for some time and said that yesterday's decision showed ¬†many traders continue to be underweight on stocks. Lee identifies four reasons the Fed's decision will support the stock market into the end of the year.¬† 1. "Interest rate expectations have been lowered, providing some support to housing, interest rate sensitives (even autos), lowering corporate bond yields and even the dollar weakened (supporting exporters)." 2. "Fed has provided some insurance against risk into year-end. An additional positive for equities is that the Fed is providing support for markets into a somewhat riskier period given the upcoming debt ceiling/budget debate and the pending nomination of a new Fed Chairman." 3. "The right groups rallied today, with builders, Cyclicals leading and not solely ‚Äúbond proxies." 4. "The rally showed investors are [underweight] risk, including equities." Advisors Need To Discuss A Budget With Their Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  In today's uncertain job market, it's possible that some might not be able to delay retirement. That's why it is important for advisors to talk to their clients about having a budget to limit their expenses, writes Kevin M. Reardon, president of Wisconsin-based Shakespeare Wealth Management in a new WSJ column.¬† Advisors can do this by explaining that the nature of expenses has changed in the last 25 years. They should also points out that wages haven't grown much in the past ten years and it was easier to save before. "One of the saving tools I like to suggest is to go back to the age-old envelope system. Take out actual cash and put it in various envelopes labeled for different purposes for the month: gas, groceries, entertainment. Once the money is gone, then you're done spending until the next month," Reardon writes.¬† FINRA Approves Proposal Requiring Brokers To Disclose Compensation (FINRA/Business Insider)  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has approved a proposal requiring brokers to disclose their compensation when they switch firms. "This proposal is about making sure the customer can make a fully informed decision to follow a broker to a new firm and understand the costs associated with transferring his or her account," said FINRA chairman Richard Ketchum in a press release. "This proposal reflects our commitment to transparency and investor protection."¬† Simon Roy, president of Jemstep, previously told Business Insider that the legislation is slightly self serving since¬†FINRA is an industry self-governance body and wirehouses have seats on the board. "The proposed legislation is expected to reduce poaching of productive brokers from their ranks which could reduce broker compensation costs and increase firm profitability," he said. The proposal will now be submitted to the SEC for review and approval. FLECKENSTEIN: 'All Hell Is Going To Break Loose' (King World News)  Bill Fleckenstein, President of Fleckenstein Capital, told King World News that the Fed is trapped. "Since April, the 10-Year has gone from about 1.6%, to as high as 3% recently.¬† Now we have to see when this rally in bonds stops.¬† The bond market will then roll over and then the Fed won‚Äôt have the tapering as an excuse.¬† It means the bond market has ceased to price in the scenario that the Fed wants, and the bond market is not responding to the Fed‚Äôs moves in the short-run.¬† In the old days we would call that ‚Äòlosing control of the bond market.‚Äô¬† And if that starts to happen, all hell is going to break loose."
REUTERS/ Larry DowningJP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon(Reuters) - It's $1 billion in payouts that JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co most likely wants to forget. In agreements with regulators totaling $1 billion and made public on Thursday, the nation's biggest bank settled four civil investigations into its "London Whale" trading scandal and two more into the wrongful billing of credit-card customers. The deals, which involve five authorities from the United States and one from the UK, are a milestone in the company's push to clean up its legal affairs but leave JPMorgan exposed to additional costs and embarrassment. The bank still faces criminal probes into the trading scandal, its conduct during an energy trading investigation, sales of mortgage securities in the United States and possible bribery in China. Investigators are also looking into its role in setting benchmark interest rates known as LIBOR. The settlements include $920 million of penalties for JPMorgan's London Whale trading scandal, which Chief Executive Jamie Dimon at first dismissed as a "tempest in a teapot" and ultimately resulted in $6.2 billion in losses. The deals included an admission of wrongdoing, which has been rare in past settlements made by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. A second set of settlements includes $80 million of payments for billing of credit-card customers for identity-theft protection services that they did not receive. The deals, made with the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, come after the company issued $309 million of refunds to customers. The Comptroller of the Currency also on Thursday ordered JPMorgan to improve its consumer debt-collection practices. That order did not include financial penalties and involved allegations made public more than two years ago. The London Whale deals, reached with the UK's Financial Conduct Authority and the U.S. Federal Reserve, SEC and Comptroller of the Currency, resolve the biggest civil probes into the trading debacle. The deals include citations against JPMorgan for poor risk controls and failure to inform regulators about deficiencies in risk management identified by bank management. The scandal took on the London Whale nickname that hedge funds had given to Bruno Iksil, a trader at JPMorgan's Chief Investment Office in London, for the enormous size of the positions he took for the company. ADMITTING THE FACTS By coordinating the announcements, the regulators delivered a round $1 billion punishment in a single day. Regulators have been criticized by lawmakers and the public for not bringing more cases or sending Wall Street executives to jail for financial crisis-era misdeeds. The deal follows a decision by the SEC to allow fewer firms to settle without admitting or denying the facts of cases. In August, the SEC reached a settlement with hedge fund manager Philip Falcone, its first big case to include an admission of wrongdoing. But George Canellos, co-director of the SEC's enforcement division, cautioned in a statement that officials will not demand admissions in all future settlements. Dimon and other JPMorgan executives had already admitted mistakes in the Whale debacle. Starting the day Dimon disclosed in May 2012 that the Whale trades were losing billions of dollars, he has apologized for the "tempest in a teapot" remark. He also testified before Congress that bank was "stupid" in handling the trades at its Chief Investment Office. The enforcement actions left some people dissatisfied because they did not blame any individuals specifically for wrongdoing. Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, issued a statement pointing out that his panel had found that "senior bank executives made a series of inaccurate statements." He said there is still time for other civil and criminal investigations to hold people accountable. David Weinstein, a former federal prosecutor who is now a partner at Clarke Silverglate in Miami, said, "Somebody else has to answer for this conduct rather than just paying money." Dimon has said that JPMorgan executives did not intend to mislead anyone about the Whale losses, which the bank concluded were initially understated by its traders. Two traders have been indicted on conspiracy and fraud charges and Iksil has agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. Dimon, in a statement issued by the company on Thursday, said, "We have accepted responsibility and acknowledged our mistakes from the start, and we have learned from them and worked to fix them." In April, Dimon told shareholders that fixing risk controls had become bank's top priority and that some projects aimed at building the company's business had been put aside. JPMorgan called the Whale settlements "a major step in the firm's ongoing efforts to put these issues behind it." But the deals leave unresolved other issues that have helped drive the bank's legal costs to $5 billion a year. The company continues to face a criminal probe by U.S. prosecutors into the London Whale scandal, despite Dimon's public insistence that no bank executives intentionally misled investors. Even as JPMorgan was hailing the settlements, it said it had received a legal notice that the staff of another regulator, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, intends to recommend an enforcement action against the bank for its derivatives trading in the London Whale debacle. The state of Massachusetts is also investigating, the bank said. And, despite the Comptroller of the Currency's order on debt collections, a group of 13 states is investigating those practices. "You are seeing the regulators ratchet up the heat on the banks," said analyst Charles Peabody of Portales Partners. "If you are too big to manage, they are going to make you pay." The bank has been under intense scrutiny from the U.S. government since May 2012, when Dimon disclosed the mounting loss. Thursday's civil penalties follow orders in January from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve directing JPMorgan to improve its risk control systems and step up its anti-money launder safeguards. The total penalties, which are among the highest ever paid by a bank, are well short of the $1.92 billion that London-based HSBC agreed to pay last year to settle money laundering charges. Fines are determined by laws governing the amount each agency can impose for each violation of a rule, and then are fine-tuned through negotiations between the regulators and the bank. (Additional reporting by Aruna Viswanatha and Emily Stephenson in Washington; Editing by Matthew Goldstein, John Wallace and Steve Orlofsky)
The Census published income and poverty data for 2012 today, and provided the following chart showing net gains and losses in U.S. median incomes since 2000. It shows that there were only two year-over-year increases during that period. And two others saw no statistically significant increases. That includes last year. Overall, median incomes fell -6.6% during the period, to $51,371. Here's the Census' take on the situation: "From the 2000 American Community Survey to the 2012 American Community, real U.S. median household income decreased 6.6 percent. The U.S. median household income decreased from $55,030 in 2000 to $51,371 in 2012. "There appeared¬† to be stability in the beginning of¬†the decade. By mid-decade, the nation had reached a peak in real median household income. "The U.S. ACS median¬†household income in 2007 was $56,048. "U.S. median household income decreased 8.7 percent from the 2007 ACS to the 2011 ACS." And here's the chart: Census
REUTERS/Henny Ray AbramsBillionaire investor Carl Icahn told CNBC's Maria Bartiromo in a telephone interview this afternoon that¬†he agrees with Warren Buffett that stocks are fully valued. ¬†¬† "I think at the risk of being modest, we're up 30% and yet we have a huge hedge on because I agree with what Warren Buffett said. ¬†I think right now the market is giving you a false picture. I don't think a lot of companies are doing that well. ¬†They're taking advantage of low interest rates," Icahn said, adding, you don't have to be a "genius" to figure that out. ¬† Earlier on CNBC, Buffett noted that the economy continues to "creep along."¬†
Heisenberg Media via flickrIn this article I wish to provide you with an overview of fundraising terminology, concepts and initial strategy.¬† Understanding it is one of the most important lessons to learn when entering the world of investment. If we map out a standard successful growth of a company, we can usually find 3 main stages: The seed‚Äì when an idea begins to form shape. Although the following may substantially vary from case to case, it is agreed to be the standard concept of investment terminology: Getting started: The initial: pre-seed/family and friends round. Pre-seed investment should get you to a working alpha or to an initial proof of concept stage. Depending on the amount, such money can come from the founders themselves their friends/relatives or even angles that would like to get an early start in the game. Next: a seed investment. Such money should take you to a working beta stage or proof of concept. Seed investments are normally obtained from angels or super angles (refers to angels investing over $1M of their private money).¬† Various VCs also invest seed money. The growth of the company: Round A investment is designed to grow the company into a serious business. Such money is normally institutional in nature. A serious business may be defined in terms of user-base or revenue.¬† Each company should set their realistic goals in accordance with the invested amount. Round B and C are designed to further grow the business into a substantial business.¬† Same goes for any further rounds. In very successful companies, where no additional funds are needed for the business operation, there may be a round of investment for the point of establishing a private company‚Äôs valuation. Prior to approaching fundraising and preparing your Excel it is very important to prep the groundwork for your company‚Äôs phases.¬† The reason is that savvy investors wish to allocate their money in stages in order to minimize risk.¬† Moreover, it would be easier for you to know which investors to approach and whom to avoid.¬† Repeat investors mostly know their preferences and patterns.¬† Some will invest in early stages while others will only get it later on in the game. The overview: You should raise enough to get you to the next stage. It used to be that the rule of thumb was for an investment amount that would last for 18 months. The reason is that at early stages of a start-up, each year the company would undergo a serious change in its phase: i.e: from an idea or concept to a beta stage, from beta to growth, etc.¬† And since it takes roughly 6 months to obtain an investment, you should 18 months would cover one growth span. However, times have changed and phases are evolving more rapidly.¬† While the above strategy still holds true, investors now are accustomed to rapid phase changes.¬† Companies can now show very fast growth within a very short amount of time, even within a beta stage. So in general, you should raise the exact money you need for each stage with a 6 month cushion for the next round.¬† Understand that smart investors will like to see a proof of your businesses growth and will invest in stages.¬† Thus, it is imperative to map out early enough the timeframes with which you would like to reach each of your phases. In early investments (pre-seed/seed- valuation does not matter. You may be astounded at this statement, but there is logic behind it. As a rule of thumb, each round of early investments takes between 25% to 35% of the company.¬† The purpose is to maintain an equilibrium of power and a proper decision-making mechanism. Basically, a constitutional balance. For example: If three founders initially hold 100% of the company (i.e 33.33% each), then a smart seed investment might see an investing partner obtaining 25% of the company, leaving each partner with a remaining 25%. In the next stage, round A, an investing VC may obtain 30% of the company, thus leaving the remaining partners with 17.5% each.¬† The founders still maintain a collective 52% of the vote. It is imperative to sustain a balance of powers for many reasons. Here are a few: 1)¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The entrepreneurs/founders are the heart and soul of the company and steer it with love, intuition, knowledge and vision. However, they may lack the vast experience it takes to run a growing, large scale company. 2)¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† An investing partner brings in knowledge, talent and connections, but may get into emotional battles over the company‚Äôs financial decisions. 3)¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† It is simply unhealthy to have the shame shareholders as board members and as partners throughout the growth of company, as they are often locked into a particular perspective and would do well to have the occasional fresh outsiders take. Under some dictatorships, leaders may be very successful (Mark Zuckerberg for example). Such cases are extremely rare however and should be discussed separately. Thus, it is not the valuation that should drive you, but rather the basic allocation of power and the decision-making process within the company.
REUTERS/Yves Herman Stocks retreated today despite solid U.S. economic news this morning. First the scoreboard: Dow:†15,635.70 -41.24 -0.26%S&amp;P500:†1,722.86 -2.66 -0.15%NASDAQ:†3,790.53 +6.89 +0.18% And now the top stories:
www.amazon.comWith a sharpie and a stack of napkins, financial planner and personal finance blogger¬†Carl Richards¬†is on a one-man mission to save consumers from financial suicide. Richards knows a thing or two about the subject. Within a few years of purchasing his dream home in 2003, the housing crisis threw him into a downward spiral of debt. He lost his home and found himself living in his in-laws' basement while he and his wife scrambled to stabilize their finances. "The setbacks have taught me important lessons, including some that I've tried to pass along," he writes in his book, "The Behavior Gap." "One of those lessons is that you aren't in charge of everything. You do what you can, and then relax." These days, Richards is a staple on The New York Times' Bucks Blog, where he uses his clever napkin sketches to teach readers the basics of money.¬† With his permission, we've republished some of his best drawings here.
Joy Covey, FacebookThe former CFO of Amazon.com, Joy Covey, died in a bike accident in Silicon Valley yesterday. Joy was riding downhill on State Highway 35 when a minivan turned across the road directly in front of her. Joy crashed into the side of the minivan and died at the scene. I didn't know Joy well, but I admired the hell out of her, as did everyone else I know who knew her. She was the CFO at Amazon in the late 1990s, when I was a young analyst on Wall Street. I remember a couple of interactions I had with her in particular, which I'll describe below. But first, some background. Joy was raised in San Mateo, California, the daughter of a doctor. She dropped out of high school and left home at the age of 16. She moved to Fresno, where she worked as a grocery clerk and got a high school equivalency degree. She enrolled part time at Cal. State Fresno and graduated in two and a half years, at age 19. She took a national accounting test and got the second-highest score in the country. She worked at Arthur Young for a few years and then headed to Harvard for a combination law and business degree. "I was completely intimidated by the rest of the class," Joy recalled later in an interview with the Harvard Law Bulletin. "I don't think I even knew anyone who went to an Ivy League school when I came to Harvard. Not having finished high school and having been fairly utilitarian in the way I went about college, I didn't have a deep liberal arts background. So we'd go to lunch and people would talk about their favorite seventeenth-century poets, and I'd be thinking, "Could I even name five poets? From any century?" So that was intimidating, and it wasn't until we got our first-semester grades back that I started to realize that everything was going to be OK." After she graduated, Joy worked at an investment bank for eight months and then jumped to a technology company called Digidesign. She helped take the company public and then sold it to another company called Avid, in Boston. Then, in the mid-1990s, Joy moved back to Silicon Valley. She interviewed at a bunch of hot companies like Excite and Marimba. It was then that she heard about Amazon. In 1996, up in Seattle, a tiny "Internet bookstore" was searching for a chief financial officer, and the company's founder and CEO, Jeff Bezos, was being famously picky about hiring one. As the story went, Bezos had met with impressive candidate after impressive candidate, only to reject all of them. Joy heard about the Amazon job from a headhunter friend. She was intrigued ‚Äî the famous venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins had backed the company, and it was growing like mad. But Amazon was in Seattle, and Joy wasn't leaving Silicon Valley. As a favor to her headhunter friend, Joy agreed to have lunch with Jeff Bezos. According to a 1999 Kara Swisher profile, she spent the first 10 minutes telling Bezos she wasn't interested. ‚ÄúShe said there was no way she was leaving the Bay area and wanted me to understand that it was a waste of time to try to get her to,‚Äù Swisher quotes Jeff Bezos as saying. ‚ÄúBut after that, we had an incredible lunch, since the pressure was off to impress each other.‚Äù¬† The next day, Bezos got a call from Joy proposing a "commuting arrangement." To Joy's surprise, Bezos went for it. ‚ÄúAfter I got home," Covey told Swisher, "I kept talking about it, so my fiance said, ‚ÄòI hate to say this, but maybe you should take it,‚Äô ‚Äù she says. ‚ÄúI think he knew it was important for me to work somewhere I believed in.‚Äù Five months later, Joy helped raise $55 million for Amazon in a controversial but successful initial public offering. Amazon's stock wilted for a few months and then, in part due to the confidence Joy, Bezos, and others on the Amazon team inspired on Wall Street, blasted off to the moon. The first interaction with Joy I remember well came in early December, 1998. That morning, as an equity analyst at a firm called Oppenheimer &amp; Co., I had raised my price target on Amazon's stock to $400 a share. For a variety of reasons, the call "plucked the chords of the zeitgeist" (as author Jay McInerney once put it) and touched off an explosion of press coverage. I had spent most of that day ‚Äî from 7 a.m. to about 10 p.m. that night ‚Äî talking to clients, colleagues, and reporters, trying to throw water on the bonfire. I was staying at my girlfriend's that evening, in a cramped bedroom in a converted elevator shaft in an old SOHO warehouse. When the phone rang, it was the head of investor relations at Amazon, a young former Wall Street analyst named Russ Grandinetti. "Do you have a moment?" Russ asked. I had a moment. "Good," Russ said. "Joy wants to talk to you." I'd met Joy Covey before, in a brief meeting while I was researching the company. She had been polite but terse, treating the 15 minutes she had to spend with me ‚Äî a relatively unknown analyst at a small Wall Street firm ‚Äî like the waste of her time that it was. By 1998, when I picked up coverage, Amazon was already a big success story, and Joy had become a celebrity in the Internet analyst community.¬† When Joy got on the phone that night, she was, once again, terse and polite. She was also livid. My new price target had triggered another spike in Amazon's stock price, and for the first time in my experience as analyst, a company was angry about that. Amazon's spiking stock price, Joy explained, was causing problems at the company. It was distracting employees, who were spending their days obsessing about the stock price instead of Amazon's customers. It was making recruiting difficult, because Amazon stock options were losing their attractiveness to would-be employees as the stock shot ever higher. It was focusing the press on the stock when Amazon wanted the focus to be on Amazon. It was, in short, making everything all about the short term, when Amazon's whole business strategy and philosophy were about the long term. I protested to Joy that I had merely said what I had thought we both agreed on ‚Äî that Amazon was a great business that would be worth a whole lot of money some day. "Yes," I remember Joy saying. "Someday. But now all anyone is thinking about is¬†today." I had been dressed down many times by CFOs, but never as effectively and thoroughly as I was dressed down by Joy. She had no right to tell me how to cover the company or manage my price targets, but she sure made me feel as if she did. When she got through with me, I felt like a once-promising student who had screwed up and been sent to the principal's office. I got to know Joy better through Amazon events and phone calls over the next couple of years. She was brilliant, articulate, talented, and intense ‚Äî the perfect CFO for Amazon and one of the most impressive executives on the Wall Street beat, a huge asset to the company. The second interaction I will remember with Joy came in the early 2000s, after Joy had retired from Amazon, and after I had run into my own controversy. Following the collapse of the dotcom bubble that had helped drive Amazon's stock to extraordinary heights, the then-Attorney General of New York, Eliot Spitzer, had publicly keelhauled me for conflicts of interest on Wall Street. After Spitzer had finished with me, many of the professional acquaintances who had been friendly in the 1990s no longer wanted to have anything to do with me. Joy wasn't one of them. Much to my surprise, for the first and only time, she sent me a note that year. She told me what she was up to (climbing mountains, hiking, windsurfing ...), and she said she hoped I was doing okay. I've gotten updates on Joy over the years, through mutual friends. Recently, she has worked as the Treasurer for the Natural Resources Defense Council, and her Facebook page is full of pictures of her kiteboarding under the Golden Gate Bridge. Just two days ago, a friend of Joy's from business school was telling me one of his "favorite Joy stories," which was about the remarkable transformation Joy's California surfer wardrobe had undergone after her summer internship on Wall Street. (When she got back to Harvard that fall, apparently, she had gone from beach girl to Marissa Mayer.) This mutual friend will miss Joy. I will miss Joy. And so, I imagine, will a lot of other people. Joy's son Tyler is 8. When he's old enough to appreciate how smart and talented his mother was, how many people admired her, and everything she accomplished, he will be very proud. Joy Covey, Google Plus
APThere have been a lot of stories in the last day about how Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) has outraged House†conservatives by basically telling them†them they're on their own to defund Obamacare. Here's the key quote from a statement Cruz issued yesterday: "[Senate Majority Leader] Harry Reid will no doubt try to strip the defund language from the continuing resolution, and right now he likely has the votes to do so. At that point, House Republicans must stand firm, hold their ground, and continue to listen to the American people." Some House Republicans and staff have responded with outrage, saying Cruz talks a good game but isn't willing to do his part to make sure the government stays closed unless Obamacare is funded. This has raised hopes that House Republicans have reached their "breaking point" with Cruz and will agree to keep the government open once the Senate does exactly what Cruz predicts: strip defund provisions out of the CR and send it back to the House. But look who's offering the heated quotes to press about Cruz. It's members of the House who were already on the record against a shutdown, or aides to House leadership, which has never wanted a shutdown. Here's Rep. Sean Duffy (Wis.) on Wednesday: House agrees to send #CR to Senate that defunds Obamacare. @SenTedCruz &amp; @SenMikeLee refuse to fight. Wave white flag and surrender. Rep. Tim Griffin (Ark.): so far Sen Rs are good at getting Facebook likes, and townhalls, not much else. Do something. . . RT ... http://t.co/fVo2eu2c6a Rep. Tom Price (Ga.): House Republicans are turning words into action to defund #Obamacare. Ball will be in the Senateís court. Many of the harshest quotes about Cruz have come from unnamed aides to House leadership: Wow. House gop leadership aide just told me "Wendy Davis has more balls than Ted Cruz." #gopvsgopugliness What we have not seen is rising frustration from the 30 or 40 House Republicans who reputedly will not vote for what Speaker John Boehner really wants: a continuing resolution that funds the government at sequestration levels without addressing Obamacare. If they're not breaking with Cruz, then we still have the same problem we had three days ago, which is that the only continuing resolutions that can pass the House with the support of 217 Republicans will have to defund Obamacare. Cruz has alienated lots of people, but it's not clear he's alienated the people whose support he most needs. Of course, Boehner can always keep the government open by letting Nancy Pelosi set the terms of a bill to keep the government open and providing a few Republican votes to create a majority. But if House Republicans weren't willing to do that a week ago, it's not obvious how that changes as a result of Cruz outrage.
SBS DatelineChina's ambitious urbanization plan has helped create many ghost cities. Two years after visiting some of China's most infamous ghost cities and malls, Australian reporter Adrian Brown revisited them for SBS Dateline, to see if they had changed. His tour of Tianducheng, the Paris replica that we reported on; the South China Mall; and Kangbashi in Ordos, China's most famous ghost city, showed that they were still empty. Tom Miller, a Chinese urbanization expert told Brown, it's as though Chinese officials "basically draw a circle on a map and they build it, and then they expect people to go and move in." The "gamble" is that cities might be empty now, but they will be filled up later, an argument Stephen Roach has previously made. While some argue that this is symptomatic of a massive property bubble in China, this really shows the presence on individual property bubbles across China.
This is kind of fun, actually. The Financial Times has had it with the dispute between a group of hedge fund managers and Argentina's President, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner. And so ó the normally staid publication is letting it's hair down a little in an effort to call both parties out on their nonsense. It's really Fernandez who got the worst pen lashing. The FT's editorial page wrote that "Ms Fern·ndez has spent too long behaving like a sulky adolescent. It is time to grow up." Definitely not what you want to hear as the leader of a G-20 country (or as one of her people), but given the long, drawn out legal battle Argentina has undertaken and the damage its done to the country's cred ability, the FT may not be off the mark. Fernandez has, after all, resorted to name-calling. The hedge fund managers, she says, are "vulture capitalists" bent on keeping Argentina low on the global economic pecking order After Argentina's economy crashed over a decade ago, most investors holding the country's sovereign debt were forced to take a haircut of about 70% on their bond holdings. Singer and his cohorts refused, and have since sued Argentina, gotten a Ghanaian Court to impound one of the country's warships (it was freed from a Ghanaian port after 2 months), and tried to seize the country's bank account in Brussels. Belgium, for its part, did not want to get involved. It's not hard to see why (from the FT): ...Even if the US Supreme Court hears the case, it is unlikely to do so before October 2014. Meanwhile, the holdouts are wracking up legal fees and want to settle. Argentinaís feet are also being held to the fire by a possible technical default. This would further squeeze trade finance, the economy and thus Ms Fern·ndezís shrinking voter base. There is no easy way out. For the full editorial, head to The Financial Times&gt;
AP Conservatives in the Senate spent weeks building grassroots support for a plan that would strip funding from the Affordable Care Act in a bill that keeps the government funded beyond Sept. 30. And now that it's finally here, they don't appear to know what to do with it. This has been the contention of House Republicans for some time†ó that Cruz was willing to say what he thought people wanted to hear, but he didn't have a plan to get it through the Senate. It was a long con, House Republican aides said, unless he actually expected President Barack†Obama to sign a rollback of his signature legislative achievement in a grand, Rose Garden ceremony. In reality, it was always going to be nearly impossible for Cruz to get any bill that defunds Obamacare through the Senate. Now, it's becoming even clearer why.† The House bill that continues funding for the government is expected to pass on Friday. It will go to the Senate, where Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) will face two potential filibusters of the legislation.† One is on the vote to begin debate ó which is not likely to produce a fight. The language will enter the Senate with the House language, so there's no reason for conservatives in the Senate to vote against opening debate on the bill.† The key procedural movement will come next. A Democratic Senate aide said that it's likely Democrats will introduce an†amendment to strip the House language defunding Obamacare after the vote to end debate occurs. Because of Senate rules, they can do so by a simple majority vote. That makes the second cloture vote the one to watch. That's when Cruz, along with Sens. Mike Lee (R-Utah) and Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), can argue that voting to end debate will enable Reid to get rid of the House language that defunds Obamacare ó "which is true," the Democratic aide said. Here's why that's a problem: Reid needs 60 votes to end debate. He can count on all 52 Democrats (including himself), as well as the Senate's two Independents, to vote to end debate and strip the language defunding Obamacare.† That means he needs only six Republicans to vote to end debate. And 14 Senate Republicans†have already expressed their dismay with the strategy ó mostly because doing so involves the possibility of shutting down the government.† House Speaker John Boehner put Cruz in check on Wednesday. And whether Cruz lays down ó like he signaled he was going to do Wednesday ó or drags out the "defund" movement as long as he can will tell a lot about how serious he was about it in the first place.† In a press conference on Thursday, Cruz shifted tone and hinted that he might participate in a filibuster to block a Senate bill that includes funding for Obamacare.† "I will do everything necessary and anything possible to defund Obamacare," Cruz said, adding that a talking-style filibuster was also possible.
Our primer on perfecting your autumn wardrobe, from versatile coats, cozy knits, and all-purpose boots, to the color you'll be wearing till spring.  DetailsJacket ($1,795) by Burberry Prorsum. T-shirt ($90) by Wings + Horns. Jeans ($195) by Rag & Bone. Shoes ($575) by Burberry. 1. The Perfect Fall Jacket A transitional coat may sound like an indulgence, and that's precisely what this utility jacket by Burberry Prorsum isóand isn't.  Made of rich, bonded felt and sporting patch pockets, it's effortlessly stylish, but it's also hardworking and versatile. It's a quintessential layering piece, ideal for crisper temperatures when worn over a T-shirt or a sweater.  Of course, when it finally does snow, you may just want to add a scarf and keep it in the rotation. 2. A Versatile Overcoat There's no bigger decision than what to wear over your suit, Monday through Friday.  The updated single-breasted overcoat just happens to work on the weekends, too. DetailsFrom left: Coat ($4,980) by Valentino, shirt ($200) by Acne Studios, T-shirt ($25) by J.Crew, sweatpants ($185) by T by Alexander Wang, shoes ($150) by New Balance. Coat ($795) by P.S. Paul Smith, sweater ($108) by J.Crew, jeans ($390) by Public School, shoes ($545) by Armando Cabral. Coat ($498) by Kenneth Cole, suit ($3,150) and shirt ($360) by Bottega Veneta, tie ($195) by Burberry London, shoes ($1,000) by HermËs. 1. Even without the chic leather detailing, this trim navy overcoat would be the kind of approachable, high-fashion piece you can throw on with a pair of sweats and sneakers and still look dressedóas opposed to dressed for the gym. 2. The beauty of a well-tailored gray peak-collar overcoat like this Paul Smith version is that it will never feel dated or out of place. Wear it with blue jeans and a sweater (like this guy) or just about anything else in your closet. 3. If you're going to wear a suit, cover it with a top layer that's just as sharpóand well-fitted. This classic charcoal version falls perfectly: The hem hits mid-thigh and the overall silhouette is slim. 3. Everyday Sweatshirts No longer a gym staple, the classic sweatshirt makes for an indispensable layer when the weather cools off. 4. The Essential Sweater There are wardrobe basics, and then there are those lust-worthy staples that make the transition from the depths of summer to fall's crisper months seamless. This Prada sweater is one of them, made of Shetland wool and cut narrower than more classic crewnecks. It's another reason to root for the mercury to drop. DetailsClockwise from top left: Shipley & Halmos ($165). Ami ($210). Reigning Champ ($130). 3.1 Phillip Lim ($295). Todd Snyder ($175). Stone Island Shadow Project ($310). Sweater ($480) by Prada. DetailsFrom left: Saint Laurent by Hedi Slimane ($890). Rag & Bone ($290). A.P.C. ($235). Public School ($325). A|X Armani Exchange ($88). Band of Outsiders ($295) 5. Grunge-Era Items The flannel shirtócut trimmer and made to be worn, not tied around your waistógets an update from†designers with a soft spot for nineties-era grunge. "Flannel shirts never truly go out of style. They just keep being reinterpreted over and over again. Ours is overdyed, then sprayed, and then baked to give it a harder edge." óPublic School designer Dao-Yi Chow 6. Chelsea Boots Sleeker and more modern than ever, the Chelsea boot works just as well with a suit as with beat-up jeans.Here, Grenson creative director and CEO†Tim Little's three tips on keeping your boots looking good. DetailsClockwise from top: Ermenegildo Zegna ($725). Tod's ($1,875). John Lobb ($1,695). Bally ($750). Grenson ($395). Church's ($570).Rule 1: The Right Pants Are Key "You want a narrow pants bottom, so that the pants sit tight, just a little way up the leg of the boot. You need to see just enough of the elastic gusset to know it's a Chelsea bootóotherwise it just looks like a very plain shoe." Rule 2: Invest In Shoes Trees "They help shoes keep their shape, but they also stop them from cracking, because the leather doesn't crease as it dries out.†If you can, try to find trees with a high instep, as the Chelsea's shape is all about that gorgeous curve running up the front of the boot from the toe." Rule 3: Avoid Quick Fixes "My pair goes back to the Grenson factory, where they are re-lasted. There are also some very good independent guys aroundójust be sure to ask if they put the boots on a last as they repair them. Most don't, so you end up with a nice new sole but a misshapen upper." 7. Tweed Trust us: It isn't just for Ivy League professors anymore. The classic fabric is looking thoroughly modern in slim-cut pieces that smarten up any wardrobe. A Brief Glossary Harris:†A high-quality, hand-woven tweed, rougher than other varieties. Originally made with pure virgin wool in Scotland's Outer Hebrides. Donegal:†Known for its thick slubs of colored yarn woven into the fabric. Also called Irish tweed. Herringbone:†The most classic tweed pattern, introduced in the 1800s. Recognizable by its characteristic parallel lines that form V shapes. DetailsFrom left: Jacket ($748) by Mark McNairy New Amsterdam, sweater ($775) by Marc Jacobs, pants ($385) by Michael Bastian, shoes ($1,060) by Church's. Jacket ($228) by Express, shirt ($360) by Patrik Ervell, jeans ($298) and shoes ($598) by John Varvatos. Coat ($1,498) by John Varvatos, sweatshirt ($650) by Trussardi, jeans ($310) by G-Star, shoes ($420) by Wings + Horns. Suit ($568 for jacket, $298 for pants) by J.Crew, shirt ($60) by Express, tie ($150) by Alexander Olch, shoes ($745) by Saint Laurent by Hedi Slimane. 1. Proof that incorporating tweed into your look doesn't have to mean putting on a suit and tie. Made for color-phobes, a snap-button jacket like this one adds texture and pattern in a minimalist way. 2. Forget the itchy stuff your mom used to force on you. This shirt and blazer are cut from plush, higher-end weaves that are undeniably comfortable. 3. Never worry about getting this nubby fabric wetóit's made to repel water. A dress coat like this one can withstand the elements while elevating even the most casual basics. 4. Wearing a tweed suit without looking like a codger is simple. Just opt for an expertly tailored, contemporary cut and pair it with a can't-miss white shirt. DetailsFrom top: Levi's ($58), Surface to Air ($210), Simon Miller ($265), Acne Studios ($350), Dior Homme ($790), Jean Machine ($190)8. Dark-Washed Denim No denim packs more attitude and effortless cool than a pair of black jeans. Light or midnight, this season they're the only ones that matter. Why, When, and How to Clean Your Jeans Frank Pizzurro, owner of†Brooklyn Denim Co., weighs in: "We are not big fans of never washing your jeans. When they're caked with dirt, the fibers break down, which causes the fabric to rip easier. Our suggestion is to wear them three to six monthsóthis will maximize the fades without destroying the fabric. At that point, wash in cold water, inside out with a small amount of mild detergent, rinse thoroughly, and hang dry." 9. Camel: The Color Of The Moment Fall's richer, more luxe shade of tan adds polish to any outfit. Wear it with gray, navy, or blackójust don't dress head to toe in it. DetailsBlazer by Boglioli ($1,450), sweater by Sunspel ($182), shirt by Hugo ($145), pants by Paul Smith ($700), toggle jacket by Saint Laurent by Hedi Slimane ($2,590), backpack by Krisvanassche ($1,307), shoes by Louis Vuitton ($1,090). 5 Must-Have Waterproof Devices That Will Make A Splash 5 Foods That Will Make You Look Younger Are You A Narcissist? The Worst Eyebrows In History The Virility Diet: What To Eat For Better Sex  
REUTERS/ Jonathan ErnstBen Bernanke's Federal Reserve has prided itself on transparency. With the federal funds rate pushed to its zero lower bound for years, "communication" has been the central bank's major, if not only, chip left to play. That is, through "forward guidance" the bank has endeavored to tell us what long-term interest rates will look like. So it's ironic, writes Credit Suisse's Neal Soss, that markets were doubly surprised by the Fed's first hint of a taper of its asset purchasing program and then again by its no taper decision yesterday. "Ideas that seem reasonable in the long run become uncomfortably constraining the closer in time they come," Soss writes to clients. "We have seen this with the 6.5% unemployment rate threshold for low interest rates, the 7% unemployment rate marker for the end of QE3, and the mid-June pronouncement that tapering may begin later this year." Simply put, transparency is hard stuff, according to Soss. Looking forward, all we can do is watch the factors FOMC policymakers cited in their unexpected decision not to taper today ñ economic data that support or cast doubt on their expectations for continued growth and improving labor market conditions, financial market conditions (especially mortgage rates), and the potential for continued restraint from fiscal policy. While we expected todayís meeting would bring more short-run monetary policy visibility, the reality is that the FOMC has left the markets guessing. To be sure,†Bernanke stressed that the decision came down to economic data and was not some bait-and-switch. He downplayed the claim that the "Septaper" was somehow a sure thing. "I don't recall stating that we would do any particular thing at this meeting," he told reporters. Still: "In the spirit of 'watch what they do, not what they say,' itís hard to know now what to make of the repeated and nearly universal references by Fed officials to taper," Soss writes. "When push came to shove, those words didnít carry the day."
I wanted to take a few minutes to talk about my day. I think itís important to look back and reflect on your decision making, whether it was right or wrong. This post is both for me (to look back on in the future) as well as for you (the best way to learn is from†other†peopleís mistakes right?). Iím not a day-trader but with this much volatility, there are some things we can do intraday on a day like this. Letís begin with how I started my Wednesday. I came in heavy short Vietnam after it rallied back last week to retest broken support. This one seemed like a no-brainer to me. With all that former support just above 18 broken that badly, the first retest†has†to be met with sellers right? And it was. We nailed. Now, did I cover all my shorts at the lows? Of course not. But I did get half off down in the 17.60s-70s. I also shorted the heck out of the russell2000 this morning after the new all-time high that it put in at the open couldnít hold for more than a couple of minutes. Talk about sick risk/rewards. I nailed that one. Pre-fomc decision, your boy was looking nice on that short. But I didnít cover a single share and got stopped out when it took out those highs.†Lesson learned. Donít be greedy. I came in Long US Treasuries via†$TLT†Calls. After the morning dip started to reverse higher, I doubled the position. This time I was smart, I took off my add before the rate decision. But I guess I wasnít that smart, because they ripped a lot higher later in the afternoon.†Man this market is humblingÖ As far as that Vietnam short position? The half piece I had left ripped in my face after 2 oíclock. But did anything change? No, weíre right back to where we shorted it originally.†So put back the other half position that we covered earlierÖ.. Now itís 3 oíclock or so. Everything is hitting new all-time highs: S&amp;Ps, Dow Industrials, Trannies, the Dow Theorists are going buck wildÖ.but look whoís not making new highs. Look who isnít even close to all-time highs. Look who has been quietly underperforming for months: regional banks†$KRE†ñ†okay, S&amp;Ps are approaching R3 and regionals are not making new highs ñ letís short the heck out of them. Oh wow, S&amp;Ps are still rocking, and Regionals are rolling over ñ letís short moreÖ. Nice, treasuries are flying. As we approach the 50 day moving average in†$TLT†ñ weíll take the rest off. Flat the bond positionÖ But now regional banks are red. And no one seems to care. I like that.†Do we cover? How much do we hold on to? Itís the first sector thatís red since 2 oíclock. Weíre short the hell out of them. Do we be disciplined? Or do we push the envelope?†They went right through VWAP like a knife through warm butter. The market is speaking ñletís stick with the moster position. S&amp;Ps are rolling over back below R3 and regionals are now down 0.40% and itís only 3:30. Ok now weíre back down to the lunch lows in†$KRE†ñ letís not be greedy and take 1/3 off.†Fine, pull the trigger. Covered at 36 ñ nice trade J ñ 2/3 short position left. Ok so now thereís about 25 minutes left in a very volatile day. Iím having a nice one P&amp;L wise (thanks to bonds and the regional bank short). I have 2 positions left ñ VNM and KRE: both shorts. P&amp;Ls are approaching intraday highs from earlier today (you know, the ones I gave up for not covering enoughÖ.) Regional banks still look like crap ñ now theyíre down 0.75% and at the lows of the day ñ all while S&amp;Ps are just ticks from all-time highs.†Stick with it J. Itís 3:40, S&amp;Ps are bouncing to retest R3 and regionals got no bounce ñ making new lows for the day.†Stick with the short J. Weíre approaching the 20 day moving average, which is also the 5 day. Letís cover another 1/3 here in†$KRE. P&amp;Ls are at highs of the day,†letís not be greedy ñ we nailed this trade.†Okay, put in a limit order a few pennies above those moving averages†ñ†$KRE†now down almost 1% for the day and 2% from the highs.†I hope we get filled. Someone once told me that limit orders limit profitsÖ.. Itís 3:45 ñ vietnam chilling near the highs of the day.†not good. Treasuries rolling over.†Nice! Good sale. Meanwhile†$HLF†the one I sold all of yesterday and have no position in is chilling at $73.00 ñ right at last yearís all-time highs.†Nothing to do there yet. Man I love this oneÖ 10 minutes left until the market closes. My 10-minute chart in†$KRE†still hasnít put in a green candle since we shorted it just before 3 oíclock. Still havenít gotten filled on my short cover.†Damn!†Vietnam making new highs.Damn!†Emerging markets also at highs ñ not a coincidence.†Damn! Okay market is closing,†Iím not getting filled on that limit order in regionals, letís just take it here and leave the other 1/3 position into tomorrow. Vietnam looks great, way too much strength to be short this much, letís cover what we added back on and leave half on against former support and the 50 day moving average. Should we get back in the bond trade? Nah, let it chill out a bit and weíll worry about it later in the week. Anything else? Pissed I missed that emerging markets trade. Oh wellÖ. P&amp;Ls near the highs of the day, but man we could have done so much betterÖ. †*** What could have I done differently? ñ&gt; Covered half the Russell2000 short, or even all of it before the fed meeting. We were up so nice going into it. Why take it through an announcement that we have no control over.My bad. What did we do well that we could potentially do again in the future? ñ&gt; Shorting the underperformer right at the highs. Great risk/reward, failed at the 50 day, first one to turn red.†We crushed it. Job well done. So how else did we screw up? ñ&gt; Re-shorted Vietnam a bit too early. Just like we shorted the weakness in banks, we should have taken the strength in emerging markets and Asia pacific a bit more seriously. It was starring at us right in the face. And that was my dayÖ.how was yours? Check out my†Stocktwits Steam†to see most of this stuff tweeted out live.
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonThe United States Postal Service has been in trouble for some time, having, for instance, rung up losses in 16 of the last 18 quarters.¬† But in remarks prepared for Senate testimony today, Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe says his agency is now on the verge of running out of cash to run day-to-day operations: "By mid-October 2013, the Postal Service projects it will have a cash balance on hand of approximately five days of average daily expenses. For an organization the size of the Postal Service ‚Äì which has revenues of $65 billion and a total workforce of approximately 490,000 career employees ‚Äì that is a razor thin margin. By way of comparison, most private sector companies usually have available liquidity of at least two months of operating expenses. Some background: the United States Postal Service has to make most of its own money, though it also gets a stipend from Congress. But the advent of e-mail began eating into their historical profit center ‚Äî first-class mail ‚Äî and they've been hemorrhaging income ever since.¬† In 2006, Congress enacted legislation that dug them into a deeper hole. As Josh Barro has noted, the agency was forced to begin setting aside earnings for retiree benefits, to the tune of $8 billion a year. Since that time, they've operated a total net loss of $41 billion. The USPS has been trying to find work-arounds, but have seen their proposals thwarted. You may recall their proposal from earlier this year¬†to axe Saturday deliveries. But that was¬†blocked by Congress¬†after¬†a statutory ruling¬†from the General Accountability Office. In his remarks today, Donahoe basically called out Congress out for hamstringing the agency's own cost-cutting measures:¬† "To be clear, the Postal Service does not have the authority or the tools to manage these massive obligations without comprehensive postal reform legislation." Donahoe is now trying to put the agency on Medicare to ease the health benefit payments issue. He also wants a postal rate increase. The agency was able to convince 22,800 eligible employees to retire in their fiscal Q2 this year. "Postal reform legislation is urgently needed. In its absence, continued significant net losses are inevitable," he says. Yikes.
APHouse Speaker John Boehner mocked President Barack Obama's stance on Thursday on negotiating over the debt ceiling ... by invoking Vladimir Putin. "While the president is happy to negotiate with Vladimir Putin, he wonít engage with Congress," Boehner said at a press conference with reporters. Boehner's press conference followed the release of a video released by his office, which castigates Obama for being willing to negotiate with Putin over a deal on Syria's chemical weapons stockpile†but not willing to negotiate with House Republicans over raising the debt ceiling. The video splices together clips of members of the Obama administration saying they won't negotiate over the debt ceiling, along with clips of them praising Putin for negotiating on Syria. "Why is the Obama administration willing to negotiate with Putin on Syria, but not with Congress to address Washington's spending problem?" the video says. The video and the comments come as House and Senate Republicans are bickering in a bit of chaos over their own position on the upcoming budget battles. Boehner officially announced on Wednesday that he would bring to the floor a bill to avert a government shutdown that strips funding for the Affordable Care Act.† That bill has no chance of passing the Senate ó something the "defund" movement's face, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) admitted on Wednesday. He also encouraged House Republicans to "stand firm," something that enraged them. The Republican plan for the debt ceiling includes demands of trading a one-year delay in Obamacare for a one-year hike in the debt ceiling ó something that is also unlikely to pass the Senate.† The debt ceiling legislation will also include conservative goals like instructions for†tax reform and urging the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. Here's the video: 
REUTERS/Rick WilkingBerkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett pauses during a bridge game in Omaha May 5, 2013 the day after the company's annual meeting.Coming out of a meeting to lay out their new strategy to defund Obamacare as a condition for government-funding and debt-ceiling bills, Republicans said they had the momentum. What is the Republican evidence for their newfound momentum? Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), a former chair of the Republican Study Committee, explained: ìAll the momentum is in our direction. Warren Buffett said yesterday, ëScrap the bill.í The AFL-CIO said last week, ëRepeal the bill if youíre not going to fix it.í Everyone knows this thing isnít ready.†Everyone†knows." Here's the problem with that evidence: Warren Buffett did not say that, and definitely not yesterday. And though certain unions within the AFL-CIO have well-documented problems with Obamacare, that sweeping statement misrepresents the union's position. Debbie Bosanek, a spokesman for Buffett, told Business Insider that she alerted Buffett to the quote, and said he was shocked that it was attributed to him. "It is a very false representation," Bosanek said. "Mr. Buffett never, ever said Obamacare should be scrapped. He never said it, and he never thought it." The confusion stems from a website called Morning Money, which originally apparently dredged up 3-year-old comments and painted them as new. Buffett's comments came in a 2010 interview with CNBC, when he did say he would scrap the Senate's version of the bill. He criticized it for not attacking costs in an aggressive-enough manner. But he†added that though he didn't like the Senate bill, he would vote for it rather than do nothing. In 2012, Buffett told Bloomberg TV the Supreme Court's decision to uphold Obamacare was the right one, and he said that the law was "the right step" toward controlling costs. The Weekly Standard and other conservative blogs picked up on the 2010 comments as new. They later added updates and/or clarifications. Morning Money didn't respond to a request for comment, but it later updated its story to note that the comments came in 2010. Its corrected version is still a misinterpretation, as Buffett was most critical of the then-current health-care system. Meanwhile, the AFL-CIO passed a†resolution†at its convention last week complaining that the law will be "highly disruptive" to†Taft-Hartley multiemployer health plans run by many member unions. The AFL-CIO pressed the Obama administration, unsuccessfully, from a waiver from Obamacare rules that would have encouraged employers to stay in the Taft-Hartley plans, at a likely cost to taxpayers of $187 billion over 10 years. Some unions were pressing for the AFL-CIO to pass a resolution that called for the repeal of Obamacare, which didn't end up happening.† These two examples point to more evidence of a Republican bubble that wildly misinterprets the left's problems with the health-care law. And in doing so, they misinterpret the strength of their own position.† The AFL-CIO and Warren Buffett don't want to defund Obamacare, and they don't reinforce Republican-led arguments against it.
APThose days of "without admitting or denying" from financial firms for allegations set forth by the Securities and Exchange Commission seem to be a thing of the past.† Today we got a rare admission of wrongdoing from JPMorgan Chase in a settlement with the SEC related to the $6 billion "London Whale" trading loss. † "JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (ìJPMorganî) admits to the facts set forth below and acknowledges that its conduct violated the federal securities laws," the SEC's release stated.† The SEC said JPMorgan misstated financial results and lacked effective internal controls to detect and prevent its traders from fraudulently overvaluing investments to hide losses.† This is different from how these sorts of cases with the SEC involving investment banks were handled in the past. Back in July 2010, Goldman paid a record $550 million fine to the SEC to settle charges related to subprime mortgage CDO†without admitting or denying†the agency's allegations. The bank did admit that it the Abacus marketing materials were incomplete though. Then, in October 2011, Citigroup settled charges about misleading investors over CDO for $285 million. They didn't have to admit any wrongdoing either. However,†Judge Jed Rakoff of Federal District Court blocked that settlement and criticized the SEC's "without admitting or denying" policy. The SEC's chair Mary Jo White, who was sworn in back in April,†told the New York Times' James B. Stewart this summer that she was going to start changing the that policy.† From the NYT:† ìIn the interest of public accountability, you need admissionsî in some cases, Ms. White told me. ìDefendants are going to have to own up to their conduct on the public record,î she said. ìThis will help with deterrence, and itís a matter of strengthening our hand in terms of enforcement.î She's been keeping her word.† Back in May, hedge fund manager Phil Falcone said†in a filing that his Harbinger Capital had reached a settlement "without admitting or denying" the SEC's allegations. That deal with the SEC†was rejected†in July.† Last month, the SEC said Falcone agreed to pay $18 million, accept a five-year ban from the industry and admit to wrongdoing. Today it's JPMorgan admitting.† Wall Street, you've been warned.†
REUTERS/Lisi NiesnerGold and silver bars are pictured in front of a safe door at the Austrian Gold and Silver Separating Plant 'Oegussa' in Vienna August 26, 2011.Goldman Sachs precious metals analysts Damien Courvalin and Jeffrey Currie are out with an update on gold prices following the Federal Reserve's surprise decision to refrain from announcing a tapering of quantitative easing yesterday, which sent gold soaring. Courvalin and Currie are bearish on the metal, but say the rally could have further to run this year: Near-term upside on delayed taper but still bearish into 2014  The FOMC unexpectedly decided not to taper the rate of its asset purchases, preferring to wait for further confirmation of improvement in the US economic outlook. This announcement, as well as Bernanke‚Äôs press conference, was more dovish than most had expected, pushing gold prices to $1,365/toz. The decision, combined with the upcoming debt ceiling debate, leaves risks to gold prices as skewed to the upside in the near- term, in our view. However, with gold prices already back near their pre-June FOMC level, COMEX net speculative positioning already back at its April level as well as growing pressures on EM gold demand, we believe that this upside will ultimately prove limited (see Neutral gold prices near- term but still expecting new lows in 2014, September 17, 2013). We believe this is well illustrated by today‚Äôs more muted rally in gold prices when compared to the significant rally in 10-year TIPS yields, helping close the significant valuation gap that had occurred between both assets over the past month. As a result, we re-iterate our neutral stance on gold prices and continue to expect that gold prices will resume their decline heading into 2014 when we expect economic data to solidly confirm a reacceleration in US growth and warrant a less accommodative monetary policy stance. Gold is up 4.6% today in the wake of the Fed's decision, trading at $1367 an ounce.
Bloomberg TelevisionToday, it seems like Wall Street is scrambling to reposition after the Federal Reserve's decision to refrain from tapering back quantitative easing surprised the majority of market participants, sending stocks, bonds, and gold soaring while the dollar tanked. JPMorgan chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee, who has long been bullish on the stock market, says in a note to clients that yesterday's Fed decision revealed that many were underweight equities, even though Wall Street's consensus call on the stock market has been bullish. That's one of four reasons he says the Fed decision yesterday will support the stock market going into the end of the year:† #1. Interest rate expectations have been lowered, providing some support to housing, interest rate sensitives (even autos), lowering corporate bond yields and even the dollar weakened (supporting exporters). There was a notable rally across the curve. Basically, trades positioned for higher rates were reversed, leading to lower interest rates. The benefits to the real economy should be seen in lower mortgage rates and financing costs (consumer and corporate). Notably, only one member dissented on the decision, reinforcing the change in expectations. #2. Fed has provided some insurance against risk into year-end. An additional positive for equities is that the Fed is providing support for markets into a somewhat riskier period given the upcoming debt ceiling/budget debate and the pending nomination of a new Fed Chairman. Previously, we felt underlying economic growth would pick up into YE to support higher equity prices, but this shift in rate expectations now lends support to asset prices. Again, we are not ignoring the negative implication of maintaining asset purchases (growth is not sufficient to justify this), but rather it speaks to how investors were positioned for the tapering as a monetary tightening event. #3. The right groups rallied today, with builders, Cyclicals leading and not solely ìbond proxiesî. We were encouraged to see homebuilders and Cyclicals rally (Materials up 2.3%, Technology up 1.5%) and the only interest rate sensitive group up materially was Utilities (up 3%). In other words, this was not a ìlower risk premiaî day with investors bidding up bond-like equities. Rather, it was a risk-on rally leveraging lower dollar (materials and commodities), lower rates and prospects for Fed support (supporting Cyclicals). #4. The rally showed investors are [underweight] risk, including equities. Finally, the rally today, broadly on risk assets, revealed how the consensus was UW equities. Many investors have argued consensus is too bullish, even as our investor meetings suggest the opposite (as we noted last week, we find most investors cautious into the Fall). But the extent of the short-covering suggests more investors were positioned for downside, or at a minimum, indecisive. Think of it this way ñ how do we explain Cyclicals (even technology) rallying today, if there were negative economic implications associated with keeping asset purchases unchanged? Quantitatively, we can see this with the low values seen in the JPM Speculative Positions Index (Figure 4). As shown, at approximately -0.16, it is at one of the lowest values all year. The graphic below shows JPMorgan's Speculative Positions Index. Click on the graphic to enlarge. J.P. Morgan Global Asset Allocation Team, CFTC, Bloomberg, as calculated by Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou, J.P. Morgan Global Strategist.Note: We calculate the net spec position in USD across 8 "risky" and 7 "safe" assets. These positions are then scaled by open interest and we take an average of "risky" and "safe" assets to create two series. The chart is then simply the difference between the "risky" and "safe" series. The final series shown in the chart below is demeaned using data since 2006. The risky assets are: Copper, GSCI, AUD, NZD, CAD, RUB, MXN, and equities (an aggregate of the S&P 500, Dow Jones, Nasdaq, and Nikkei). The safe assets are: Gold, VIX, JPY, CHF, Silver, and an aggregate of the UST and Eurodollar futures and an aggregate USD index. The USD series is the inverse of the sum of positions in EUR, JPY, GBP, CHF, AUD, NZD, CAD, RUB, and MXN futures. The UST series is a duration weighted aggregate of the Eurodollar, UST2YR, UST5YR, UST10YR, UST long bond and the UST Ultra long bond futures.
"The Great Gatsby"Leonardo DiCaprio is already set to grace the screen in The Wolf of Wall Street, an upcoming highly-anticipated Martin Scorsese¬†film about a 90s-era pump and dump firm. Now it looks like Leo has caught the finance bug. Deadline is reporting that DiCaprio will produce an adaptation of Wall Street thriller novel¬†Graveland by Alan Glynn. Here's Deadline's synopsis: The novel is a murder mystery that begins with the discovery of a dead Wall Street investment banker, who was shot while jogging in Central Park. Later that day, a top hedge-fund managers is gunned down outside a restaurant. A female investigative journalist is on the trail as bodies pile up and she tries to figure out if terrorists are killing the financial industry‚Äôs best and brightest, or if someone is holding accountable those who engaged in Wall Street corruption. Sounds pretty gripping.
APThe Washington Post's Greg Sargent alerts us to a new WaPo/ABC poll that leads to a rather unprecedented conclusion ‚Äî if there is a crisis over raising the debt ceiling, it'll come because Republican voters overwhelmingly want that crisis. And they want it even knowing that it could have disastrous consequences. The poll shows that overall, voters narrowly think, by a 46-43 margin, that Congress should raise the nation's debt limit before a mid-October deadline ‚Äî perhaps underestimating the consequences of the last near-crisis. Democrats (62-31) and Independents (48-46) believe the debt ceiling should be raised. But Republicans (25-61) are about as heavily against doing so as Democrats are in favor of it.¬† This is despite the fact that the vast majority of Republicans ‚Äî and the vast majority of Americans overall ‚Äî believe that¬†not raising the debt ceiling would "cause serious harm" to the U.S. economy. By a 66-27 split, Republicans are aware that failure to lift the nation's borrowing limit could inflict serious consequences. Overall, 73% of Americans believe it will cause serious harm. The poll is another sign of the overall confusion surrounding voters' opinions on raising the debt ceiling. Last week, a¬†Wall Street Journal/NBC poll showed¬†that 44% of Americans don't believe that Congress should raise the debt ceiling, while only 22% said it should.¬† Economists agree that failure to raise the debt ceiling¬†would be a catastrophe. And in addition to the stock market plunge, credit rating downgrade, and default, the¬†costs of even a temporary delay are estimated to be a whopping $20 billion. Congress needs to raise the debt ceiling by mid-October. Right now, House Speaker John Boehner is urging President Barack Obama to negotiate ‚Äî something Obama says he won't do. Here's a chart from Langer Research, which conducted the poll, that outlines where voters overall stand on raising the debt ceiling: Langer Research
Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesExisting home sales beat expectations rising 1.7% on the month, to an annualized pace of 5.48 million. This was the highest level in 6.5 years.  Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for existing home sales to fall 2.6% month-over-month to an annualized rate of 5.25 million. This was 13.2% higher than August 2012.  July's number was unchanged with a 6.5% rise to 5.39 million in July. Housing inventory stood at 2.25 million existing homes for sale at the end of August, which represents a 4.9 month supply at current sales pace. This is down from 5-month supply in July. The national median existing-home price for all housing types was $212,100 in August, up 14.7% year-over-year. And the median time on the market was 43 days, up from 42 in July. Economists have been watching for the impact of the run up in mortgage rates on existing and new home sales. The 30-year mortgage rate stands at 4.57% according to Freddie Mac's primary mortgage market survey (PMMS). "Rising mortgage interest rates pushed more buyers to close deals, but monthly sales are likely to be uneven in the months ahead from several market frictions," Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist said in a press release.¬† "Tight inventory is limiting choices in many areas, higher mortgage interest rates mean affordability isn‚Äôt as favorable as it was, and restrictive mortgage lending standards are keeping some otherwise qualified buyers from completing a purchase." With the recent disappointing housing data, economists will be watching to see if existing home sales continue to perform better than new home sales. Existing home sales also account for a larger share of the market than new homes.
Philly FedThe¬†Philadelphia Fed's monthly Business Outlook Survey is out. The headline index surged to 22.3 in September from 9.3 in August, coming in well above expectations for a slighter rise to 10.3. Below is a summary of the data from the release: The survey‚Äôs broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index of current activity, increased from 9.3 in August to 22.3 this month (see Chart). The index has now been positive for four consecutive months and is at its highest reading since March 2011. The percentage of firms reporting increased activity this month (36 percent) was greater than the percentage reporting decreased activity (14 percent). The demand for manufactured goods, as measured by the current new orders index, increased 16 points, to 21.2. Shipments rebounded from last month: The current shipments index increased 22 points. The diffusion indexes also suggest that, on balance, inventories and deliveries were near steady this month, while unfilled orders increased slightly. Labor market indicators showed improvement this month. The current employment index increased 7 points, to 10.3, its highest reading since April of last year. The percentage of firms reporting increases in employment (21 percent) exceeded the percentage reporting decreases (10 percent). Firms also reported a longer average workweek compared with last month, and the index increased 15 points, to 12.2. Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius says the Philly Fed's monthly survey is¬†one of the best predictors of economic growth. Click here to refresh for the latest ¬ª
 I first heard this advice a couple of decades ago. It seems as wise today as it did then. "Every morning in Africa, a gazelle wakes up. It knows it must run faster than the fastest lion or it will be killed. Every morning a lion wakes up. It knows it must outrun the slowest gazelle or it will starve to death. It doesn't matter whether you're a lion or gazelle. When the sun comes up, you'd better be running." Of course, when I posted this a few years ago, a Twitter user named "@debrink" observed that this is not technically true: Lions spend most of the day lolling around and then occasionally sprint off to catch dinner. And it's not technically true for gazelles, either: They spend most of the day nibbling grass, and then occasionally bound away in brief moments of absolute panic. But the point is well-taken: If you want to live out the day, you'd better be ready to run. By the way, does anyone know who first said this?
Alex Davies / Business InsiderWe spent some time with a $272,220 Bentley Continental GT Speed Convertible.Although it is best known for its huge sedans like the Mulsanne, Bentley insists it makes cars that are meant to be driven by their owners, not chauffeurs. After spending a few days in the 2013 Continental GT Speed Convertible, we believe them. The GT Speed is a real driver's car, with 616 horsepower coming from a W12 engine, permanent all-wheel drive, and a quite fun Sport mode. But we've had just as much fun driving in cars that cost a tiny fraction of this one. The GT Speed has a $238,700 MSRP; the well-equipped one we tested runs for $272,220. So what do you get for all that dough? Here's a full breakdown of everything that comes standard (like the knurled gear knob and "seatbelt presenter") and the often superfluous options (try carbon fiber panels in the backseat and a neck warmer for chilly nights).
Earlier this week we presented the thesis from Credit Suisse that not only is 3-D printing not a flash in the pan, existing market research reports have actually understated its potential market. 3-D printing is exactly what it sounds like: making 3-D objects from a device that's conceptually more like a printer than from a typical manufacturing process. But we wanted to get a little bit more specific about where exactly this is going to happen. So with the help of an excellent report from consulting firm CSC, we now present five industries that are already feeling the effects of 3-D printing's imminent dominance ‚Äî for better or worse.¬†¬† The automotive industry was¬†one of the earliest adapters¬†of 3-D printing to produce parts. But we could soon start seeing whole cars (or at least their bodies) printed. That's the business model for¬†Urbee¬†("urban electric"), a startup auto company that wants to make the greenest car on earth. Stratsys, one of Credit Suisse's top stocks for investing in 3-D printing,¬†just signed on as Urbee's sponsor for digital printing. A company called EOIR Technologies developed a way to mass produce camera gun sights for M1 Abrams tanks and Bradley fighting vehicles¬†using 3-D printing. Accroding to CSC, that cut the cost of manufacturing the gear by 60%.¬† The Air Force is also in the initial stages of pumping out components of otherwise highly sensitive and expensive systems, like drones, in order to use them in training exercises. REUTERS/US NAVY/PH1 William F. GowdyA United States Army M1A1 Abrams tank rolls across the Egyptian desert sporting the stars and stripes flag October 25, 2001. Pick almost any simple soft-tissue organ ‚Äî ears, fingers, even kidneys ‚Äî and it's already being printed on a 3-D machine. So are 90% of all hearing aids, as well as an increasing number of dental equipment and hip and knee replacements, according to Credit Suisse. Wake Forest BaptistPrinting a kidney. Boeing now uses 3-D printers to create 300 different parts for its products. For instance, according to CSC, Boeing's environmental control ducting (basically specialized tubes) used to have to be assembled from 20 small parts; now it's pumped out as a single piece. This reduces inventory and maintenace costs, and also lowers fuel costs since the part is lighter. Some aerospace manufacturers are also deploying on-site printers for certain parts, reducing shipping costs. If some storefront retailers are on the brink, 3-D printing may push them over the edge. Thanks to at-home printers ‚Äî as well as places like UPS that have begun setting up printers at their stores ‚Äî ¬†you may soon be able to print pretty much any relatively simple consumer good that would fit on your desktop. We've previously discussed what some of those objects are.¬† CSC has a great, illustrative story of how at-home 3-D printing could accelerate the decline of storefronts: "Recently, one of our researchers faced the prospect of a 14-hour flight holding an ebook reader, with no time to buy a reader stand before leaving for the flight. After a few minutes searching on Thingiverse.com [a site offering 3-D printing files], he was able to download a foldable stand design, print it in 45 minutes, and use it on the flight that night." ¬† Here's what it looked like: CSC Again, Credit Suisse says 3-D printing could drive up to 30% of revenue growth for aerospace, automotive, health care, and consumer sectors. Time to pay attention.
China has been on a credit growth spree since 2008, when Western households began to deleverage in the face of the global financial crisis hurting Chinese exports.† Societe Generale's Wei Yao writes that China's debt level has since surged to 210% of GDP, from 150% of GDP in 2008. And the problem is it's taking more and more credit growth to deliver less and less economic growth. Chinese policymakers are well aware of the dangers of this rapid growth in debt, and the "alarmingly high level of corporate debt." And the shadow banking system is only making this problem worse. "Deleveraging will be the biggest source of downside risk to Chinaís medium-term outlook," writes Yao. While some argue that the underlying assumption is that the state will guarantee its debt, it is important to remember that China's financial system is liberalizing and this means moving away from "100% state guarantees." To tackle this massive debt problem, Chinese policymakers are employing a three pronged strategy. 1. They are trying to slow credit growth so the debt risk accumulates at a slower pace. 2. The less toxic part of bad debt needs to be rolled over with new financial instruments, taking the pressure off banks. 3. Non-performing loans are being disposed of. Here's a visualization of that strategy and how it will impact growth: Societe Generale China has been one of the few countries that has successfully managed to deleverage in the past without seeing a sharp correction. "This means that there is a glimmer of hope that China may be able to do it again," says Yao. Here's the main difference between now and then from SocGen: Societe Generale
Flickr/OsvaldoROVERio de Janeiro, Brazil's Christ the Redeemer is the 5th largest statue in the world.Emerging market (EM) currencies are soaring after the Federal Reserve's shock decision to refrain from tapering its quantitative easing program of monthly bond buying yesterday. Treasuries rallied aggressively, forcing rates lower in the United States, which also flowed through to EM. "EM is the asset class which suffered most from the ‚Äòtaper talk' and is the one which is bouncing most as the removal of stimulus is delayed," says Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale strategist Kit Juckes. "Of course, ‚Äòdelayed' is not the same as ‚Äòremoved' and that will matter in due course but for now, relief just goes on. I am most comfortable with the more US-sensitive growth stores and currencies and USD/MXN, which has been falling for two weeks now, can head towards 12. [The Indonesian rupiah] has more room to rally than [the Indian rupee] or [the South African rand], too." The best-performing currency against the dollar today is the Malaysian ringgit (USD/MYR is down 2.6%). The next-best performers are the Indian rupee (USD/INR down 2.5%), the Chilean peso (USD/CLP down 1.9%), and the Russian ruble (USD/RUB down 1.8%). However, the dollar is still rising against some of the most high-profile EM currencies of the recent sell-off, including the Turkish lira, South Africa rand, and the Brazilian real.
Kay RapholtzAll you need to know about how the Great Recession affected Kay Rapholtz¬†is that it forced to her into becoming a professional behind-cleaner for three years. Don't worry, this story has a mostly happy ending. But it got pretty ugly, for a long time. And it shows that, for many Americans living in the "middle class," is little more than living above a trap door that can fall out from beneath you at a moment's notice.¬† In February 2009, Rapholtz was laid off from her job at a non-profit drug treatment center. She'd worked there as a counselor for four years. ¬† She'd actually been laid off from a factory position when the economy went to pot in 2001.¬† But she'd gone back to school to earn a two-year degree in human services, and didn't expect to be out of work again. "I thought a job in the drug and alcohol field ‚Äî we definitely had people who needed our help, all the time," she says. "I didn't think it was a field where I ever had to worry about being downsized or losing my job. I thought, 'This is job security.' "¬† It wasn't. Thanks to budget cuts at funding sources her agency depended on, including the state of Ohio, Rapholtz and two other employees were laid off.¬† To make matters worse, the news came two weeks after she underwent gall bladder surgery. "I was pretty devastated. I was a single parent, I was already stretched thin with health payments, and I really wondered what we were going to do at that point," she says. "There were not a lot of jobs in that area ‚Äî it had been heavily hit by the economy ‚Äî northwest Ohio really took a blow during the downturn. So of course I was worried, I was scared, I was hurt." The bad news wasn't over though. The same week, she learned she would be laid off, Rapholtz learned the bank was suing to foreclose on her home. She admits she didn't do her full due diligence on the lease, which was not usually her custom.¬† She'd gone in on a $100,000 home, thinking her monthly payment would only be $675.  But she says her mortgage broker was not upfront with her about the final costs, including mortgage insurance and having to pay for upkeep of the private road she was on. "I was told one figure, and when I actually got the papers, it was like, 'This is much more than I thought, how did this number come up?' "I was like, 'Well, I wish that had been explained before.' "But at that point, the people I was buying the house from had made an offer, they were already in the process of moving. I just felt like I couldn't back out." She'd managed to hang on to the house for two years, but losing the job meant there was no way to fight the foreclosure.  She and her children moved into a nearby apartment. Eventually she got an offer: she could earn $9 an hour at a home-care agency looking after a "profoundly" disabled youngster. Only the graveyard shift was available ‚Äî 11 pm to 7 am. And it was 55 miles from her home. As a committed social worker, she didn't mind the most pungent part. But she really had no other choice. Congratulations, you've now reached one of the worst points of Kay Rapholtz life.¬† Now it gets a little better. Around the time she signed onto the caretaker gig, she met a local pastor on an online dating site. A year they were married. "I'm always very self-sufficient, so I didn't get married to take anything off my back.¬†But I was looking for somebody." For three years, Rapholtz worked the midnight shift on the disabled boy.  It finally wore her out.  With her husband's encouragement, she decided she would quit to go back to school and complete her bachelor's degree. She was accepted into Defiance College, and is now a senior. She says she doesn't mind being the person in the classroom with the most life experience, though it helps that most of the other students are already 22, she said. "I¬†expected a lot of immaturity, but they‚Äôre mature, they're aware of what's going on in the world."¬† Life is not perfect. She now must contend with a foreclosure on her credit score, and has taken on student loans. But the worst is behind her. She plans to get her Master's in social work. She's also getting a co-author credit in a forthcoming book about women who've persevered through crises. Still, two things are clear to her. First, she would not have made it without unemployment insurance. "My children and I would have probably had to have gone to a homeless shelter. This kept me in my own home where I could take care of my children. I was earnestly looking for a job, and I did take the first job I was offered." She also knows she's lucky. "There are people all over ‚Äî I know several people who lost homes during the recession, people who worked all of their lives and had always paid bills, always been responsible. Then, because of the economy or a major illness, they lost their homes."
APJPMorgan Chase agreed to pay $920 million in fines as part of a settlement with regulators in the London Whale trading loss case, Bloomberg News' Dawn Kopecki†reported. Those fines will be paid amongst the SEC ($200 million), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ($300 million), the Federal Reserve ($200 million)†and the U.K.'s Financial Conduct Authority ($221 million), according to Bloomberg. According to the SEC's release, JPMorgan admitted that†its conduct violated the federal securities laws. "We have accepted responsibility and acknowledged our mistakes from the start, and we have learned from them and worked to fix them. We will continue to strive towards being considered the best bank ñ across all measures ñ not only by our shareholders and customers, but also by our regulators. Since these losses occurred, we have made numerous changes that have made us a stronger, smarter, better Company," JPMorgan's CEO Jamie Dimon said in a statement.† The CFTC and the Justice Department are still probing the matter, according to Bloomberg. Back in May 2012,†JPMorgan revealed a†$2 billion dollar trading loss†in it's Chief Investment Office in London related to derivatives trades. A few months later it was revealed that the number was actually†$5.8 billion.† Before this, though, there were media reports from†Bloomberg and the Wall Street Journal†about a trader known as the "London Whale" who had a massive position that it was rattling the market. †JPMorgan's CEO†Jamie Dimon†dismissed those early reports as a†"tempest in a teapot."
Wikimedia CommonsComputer-generated image of the proposed high-speed trains for use in California.On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve stunned the world and shocked the markets by announcing no change to its $85 billion large-scale asset purchase program. This program, which is intended to stimulate the economy, has some skeptics worried about runaway inflation and currency destruction. Albert Edwards, the long-time bearish strategist at Societe Generale, has a new note out in response to the Fed's announcement. "I<U+0092>'ve read quite a lot overnight about the Fed backing off on its tapering of QE," wrote Edwards. "I think the excellent Gavyn Davies who writes in the FT nowadays had it spot on with his title ìNever underestimate the Fedís dovishnessî. Personally I am incredulous. I can believe the arch dove Bernanke might have wanted to keep blowing his bubbles but I am amazed that he got the rest of the Fed, or at least the majority, on his side. I am also amazed because the Fed has spent weeks setting the markets up for a taper." "Their word is apparently not their bond if bonds donít like their words!" Citing the work of his former colleague Dylan Grice, Edwards speculates that Bernanke and the Fed are aware of the risks, but they've back themselves into a corner. "Theyíre printing money because theyíre scared of what might happen if they donít," added Edwards. "This very real political dilemma is what is missing from the simplistic understanding of inflation as <U+0093>always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon.<U+0094> It<U+0092>'s like they<U+0092>re on a train which they know to be heading for a crash, but it is accelerating so rapidly they<U+0092>re scared to jump off." And that brings us to Germany's Weimar-era hyperinflation. From Edwards: Incidentally, this is exactly the train Rudolf von Havenstein found himself on as President of the Reichsbank during the German hyperinflation. According to Liaquat Ahamed<U+0092>s work on vonHavenstein<U+0092>s dilemma, in his majestic book <U+0091>Lords of Financeí <U+0093> <U+0085> were he to refuse to print themoney necessary to finance the deficit, he risked causing a sharp rise in interest rates as thegovernment scrambled to borrow from every source. The mass unemployment that would ensue, he believed, would bring on a domestic economic and political crisis, which in Germany<U+0092>s [then] fragile state might precipitate a real political convulsion<U+0094>. Plus Áa change! Here's Edwards' not-so-subtle view of Bernanke. Societe Generale, Albert Edwards
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke is seen prior to the International Monetary and Financial Committee at the annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank Group in Tokyo, October 13, 2012.UBS economist Drew Matus says the Federal Reserve may regret passing up on a rare opportunity to reduce quantitative easing without unduly disrupting the market. Yesterday, the FOMC (the Federal Reserve's monetary policymaking body) decided to go against market expectations and refrain from announcing a reduction in the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under quantitative easing. The market reaction showed that a "tapering" of QE was largely priced in ‚Äì stocks, bonds, and gold all soared while the dollar tanked. And because the taper was already largely priced in ‚Äì such that perhaps markets wouldn't have sold off so strongly on the actual announcement of a taper ‚Äì UBS economist Drew Matus writes in a note that "the¬†FOMC may come to regret¬†passing on this opportunity." "We would note that opportunities such as the one offered to the Fed today are rare: to date no central bank that has ever begun quantitative easing has been able to exit from those policies," says Matus. In the note, he writes (emphasis added): A consequence of this inaction may be that the market will view future Fed communications with some scepticism. We have argued repeatedly that introducing some uncertainty into the Fed‚Äôs decision-making process could actually support the Fed‚Äôs goals. However, we viewed increasing the uncertainty with regard to the process, not to the goals themselves. The Fed‚Äôs actions today reduce both the transparency the Fed has argued supports their goals AND the clarity of their goals, the latter being more significant as it could cause an¬†unwelcome increase in volatility. This is likely to prove costly when the Fed finally does move to taper. The bottom line, according to Matus: "In our view, particularly now that any Fed warnings regarding a¬†taper are likely to be discounted by market participants, there are higher odds of a¬†disruptive sell-off in equity markets in response to a taper announcement."
Weekly¬†jobless claims figures for the week ended September 14 are out. Initial jobless claims were 309,000, up from last week's artificially-depressed number but down from 323,000 the week before that. Economists predicted a larger rise to 330,000. Continuing claims in the week ended September 7 unexpectedly fell to 2.787 million from the previous week's upward-revised 2.815 million. Initial claims for the week ended September 7 were revised up to 294,000 from 292,000. Last week's sub-300,000 number was due to computer system upgrades in some states that delayed processing of a portion of the claims. According to Bloomberg, this week's number is artificially depressed as well, as two states were still "working through a backlog of applications that were caused by computer-system changeovers." Click here for the full release ¬ª

The Fed's tough talk has already led to a 140 basis point rise in US 10-year Treasury yields, the benchmark price money for US mortgages and for the world (ex-China). It might as well have raised rates six times. The shock decision on Wednesday night to put off tapering bond purchases is a recognition of what should have been obvious. Rising mortgage costs and the "tightening of financial conditions" could slow growth, it said. Indeed. The net loss of jobs over the summer months has been entirely among men, mostly aged 25 to 54 and university educated. The cohort aged over 55 has been growing, so this is not happening because baby boomers are retiring early and happy to grow cantaloupes in Arkansas, or to play golf at Torrey Pines. The labour "participation rate" dropped to 63.2pc in July, the lowest level since the late 1970s. The rate for men is at an all-time low. The unemployment rate has been falling, but chiefly because so many people are giving up hope and dropping off the rolls. Some Fed governors seem to want to wash their hands of this, latching on to theories that the problem is "structural": due to evolving technology, or a "skills mismatch", or that catch-all concept "demographics". No doubt this is half true, but such claims were made in the early 1980s when jobs were scarce. The unemployed were decried as "shirkers" by the Chicago Tribune in the 1930s. Ambrose Evans-PritchardUS labour force participation rate (percentage) Fortunately the hawks did not prevail. It is likely that vice-chair Janet Yellen played a key role, insisting that the jobless rate is nowhere near the "NAIRU" (non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment) inflexion point, the level at which inflation starts to accelerate, the gauge she tracks as her lodestar. Labour specialists say chronic lack of demand in the US is the real villain is this jobs slump. "The problem is not that the labour market is under performing; it is that the recovery has been very slow," says Stanford's Edward Lazear. A record 20.2pc of US households are now on food stamps. That is how they survive. The economic growth rate over the past three quarters has been 0.1pc, 1.1pc and 2.5pc. This is below the Fed's own "stall speed" indicator - 2pc averaged over two quarters. The economy has weathered the most draconian fiscal tightening (2.5pc of GDP this year) since the end of the Korean War remarkably well, helped by shale gas, but it is not yet at "escape velocity". The fiscal squeeze goes on. The International Monetary Fund has advised Washington to go easy, citing an "output gap" of 4.6pc of GDP. The Dallas Fed's measure of core inflation was 1.2pc in July. Growth of the M1 money supply is the slowest in two years, while growth of broad M3 has slowed to the point where it could turn negative without QE. The alleged inflation threat is a fiction of febrile imaginations. It would be a grave error for the Fed to taper bond purchases at all at this juncture, given the risks for Brazil, India, Turkey, South Africa, Indonesia, Ukraine and others already facing a turn in the credit cycle, and given the danger of another eurozone debt spasm, as happened at the end of QE1 and the end of QE2. The Bernanke Fed has twice misjudged the global effects of premature tightening already, each time precipitating a credit and stock market crash within weeks, and each time forcing the Fed to capitulate. Third time lucky? Ambrose Evans-PritchardWeakening US money supply One suspects that some hawks want to end QE for reasons that have nothing to do with jobs or inflation. A paper by former Fed governor Frederic Mishkin, "Crunch Time", warns that the Fed will struggle to extract itself from QE if it delays until 2014. It may drown from losses on its $3.6 trillion of bond holdings as yields rise. Above all, their real motive seems to be fear that QE is stoking another asset bubble, and that the risk of this game now outweighs the rewards. This is a legitimate worry. As the Telegraph reported earlier this week, the Bank for International Settlement's former guru William White says the global debt structure is more dangerous than ever. ‚ÄúThis looks like to me like 2007 all over again, but even worse. All the previous imbalances are still there. Total public and private debt levels are 30pc higher as a share of GDP in the advanced economies than they were then, and we have added a whole new problem with bubbles in emerging markets,‚Äù he said. Lest we forget, it was Mr White who saw the debacle of 2008-2009 coming with crystal clarity. The latest dash for subordinated debt, "leveraged loans" (I kid you not), "cove-lite" lending, "CoCos", and so on, are all too like those infamous "CDOs" and "CLOs" last time. The question is whether the public welfare is best served by popping the bubble and allowing Austro-liquidation to purge the toxins, or whether this would be ruinously destructive. Many readers think it is past time to dynamite this edifice. I have much sympathy with this view. Yet in the end, I prefer magic. The root of our global crisis is the $10 trillion reserve accumulation by the emerging powers, massive over-investment in China, and extreme levels of inequality within the West as the "Gini Coefficient" goes off the charts. The combined effect is to create excess capital, and lack of consumption, pushing the global savings rate to a record 25pc. This chronic disorder keeps blocking economic recovery. It is embedded in the structure of globalisation. Wikimedia CommonsKorekiyo TakahashiBe that as it may, if QE as conducted is causing asset bubbles, then we should deploy central bank stimulus more creatively, should it prove necessary. We know how to do it. The methods were pioneered by Takahashi Korekiyo, who pulled Japan out of the Great Depression early in the 1930s. His brilliant feat is now the model for what Japan is (covertly) doing again under Abenomics. Takahashi turned the Bank of Japan into an arm of the treasury - "fiscal dominance" - and ordered it to finance the budget deficit. You can deploy QE in any way you want. It could be used to build houses, injecting the money into the veins of the economy, instead of the veins of hedge funds. There is no reason why it cannot be administered by an independent Fed or Bank of England, choosing the calibration level as they see fit. Ambrose Evans-Pritchard Lord Turner, the former chief of the Financial Services Authority, is tentatively pushing this idea, asking what is to stop the Bank of England writing off its Gilt portfolio, financing "prior" deficits. This could be done with a flick of a switch, reducing Britain's sovereign debt to a manageable 67pc of GDP at a stroke. The US could do much the same. Pedants will scream. The central bank priesthood will talk of Hellfire and damnation. But if you can conjure away this debt without inflation, the objections fall away. For the sake of decorum, the Gilts could be converted into zero-coupon bonds with no expiry date. The certificates could be burned one Sunday, during a World Cup Final. Such unorthodox action might even be desirable in strict monetary policy terms, making it easier to restore interest rates to normal levels earlier in the recovery cycle, to the benefit of savers. It is a victimless crime, or no crime at all. Or if we want to be really radical, we can dust off the 1936 Chicago Plan, lately revived by the IMF's Jaromir Benes and Micheal Kumhof. They argue for a return to the pre-Stuart system, before the English Free Coinage Act of 1666. This would strip banks of their power to create money out of thin air, returning to state-created money. The IMF paper argues that if lenders are forced to put up 100pc reserve backing for deposits, this could - by complex legerdemain - eliminate all public debt in the US, UK, Germany, France and perhaps even Japan. My point is not to endorse Lord Turner's plan, or the Chicago plan, or any other particular plan, but simply to say that fear of asset bubbles is not a good reason to shut off monetary stimulus prematurely, if the economy still needs it. Whether the Fed or the US policy establishment is willing to think so far out of the box remains to be seen. At least it has backed away from a repeat of the great 1937 error of premature tightening. There is slightly less risk that it will tip us back into another leg of the Long Slump. We have dodged a bullet.
REUTERS/Jim YoungAfter the Fed's shocker decision not to taper quantitative easing yesterday, the S&amp;P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average shot up to all-time highs. However, SociÈtÈ GÈnerale currency strategist Sebastien Galy notes that investors aren't rotating into stocks, perhaps because they're worried that this rally won't last: Asset allocation moves havenít happened yet as far as I can see. The volume in [the S&amp;P 500] were the highest in the month. However, the index did not increase on the close of the market when large sizes are traded. This suggests that little has been done in real asset allocation in the U.S. session. U.S. futures point up but not aggressively so, suggesting there is no expectation of heavy reallocation into U.S. equities. Similarly, European equities gapped higher at the open and stayed there. Two alternatives face us: one, they are long risk and happy to ride the wave, reluctant to add in what they perceive could be a policy mistake, or they will add in the next few days. I would venture it is a mix of the two with the first more probable. The rise of ETFs though penalizes what is often good risk management, suggesting that institutional investors will be forced into this rally. In [emerging markets], the squeeze in bearish positioning continues its aggressive move helping the USD to weaken across the board and EUR/USD to take out topside strikes (see EURUSD Curncy OMST for a map of strikes in Bloomberg). Right now, S&amp;P 500 futures are up 0.3%.
REUTERS/Yorgos KarahalisPeople enter a Greek Manpower Employment Organisation (OAED) office in a northern suburb of Athens, July 11, 2013.ATHENS (Reuters) - Greece's jobless rate dropped slightly to 27.1 percent in the second quarter of 2013 from 27.4 percent in the previous three-month period as economic activity slumped, the country's statistics service said on Thursday. It was the first drop in quarterly unemployment since the third quarter of 2009 but still near a record level hit in the first quarter. Greece has already published monthly unemployment figures up to June, which differ from quarterly figures because they are based on different samples. (Reporting by George Georgiopoulos)
Donald Kohn, an economic strategist for the Potomac Research Group, was surprised by the Federal Reserve's decision to delay tapering its stimulative large-scale asset purchase program. Kohn, a former Vice Chair of the Federal Reserve, is considered one of the front-runners to be nominated for Fed Chair by President Obama. PRG's Greg Valliere wrote in a note this morning: Our colleague Don Kohn cautioned on a PRG conference call last week that there was a solid argument for waiting on tapering -- but like most observers, Don was surprised by the Fed decision.† Mediocre economic data in the last few weeks, including soft inflation figures, surely played a role -- but the big surprise, Don said, was that Fed officials are beginning to worry about the fiscal fiasco. "Bernanke says a factor that concerned the FOMC was upcoming fiscal headwinds," reported BI's Matt Boesler while covering Bernanke's post-FOMC meeting press conference. "A government shutdown, and perhaps even moreso, a failure to raise the debt limit, could have negative effects on the economy, which the Fed would have to take into account, because the central bank is charged with helping to keep the economy on course." A potential "fiscal fiasco" has economists on Wall Street pushing back their expectations for the taper. "The budget concerns suggest that the Oct. 29-30 meeting may be too soon for the Fed to begin the long-awaited tapering of quantitative easing as negotiations may still be ongoing," said UBS's Drew Matus on Wednesday evening. But after that, there will be other calendar problems. "Also, we believe the Fed would prefer to avoid a Dec. 17-18 meeting tapering that could be viewed as too risky in the midst of the key holiday shopping season," added Matus. "In our view, particularly now that any Fed warnings regarding a taper are likely to be discounted by market participants, there are higher odds of a disruptive sell-off in equity markets in response to a taper announcement. As a result, we now believe that the Fed will not begin tapering until the first quarter of 2014, with the January 28-29 FOMC meeting somewhat more likely than the March 18-19 meeting." Stunning.
REUTERS/ Gary CameronU.S. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke arrives to address a news conference following the Fed's two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting in Washington September 18, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Following the murder of activist/rapper Pavlos Fyssas by an alleged supporter of the Neo-Nazi Golden Dawn party, the situation in Greece is looking incredibly tense. As Joe Weisenthal notes, it really looks like a "red line" that separates a depressed economy from total societal collapse could be dangerously close. Greece crisis blog When The Crisis Hit The Fan has collected a few of the front pages today, and the tone of fear and loathing is striking. Perhaps the most visually arresting front page today is this one, from liberal paper Eleftherotypia. via whenthecrisishitthefan.com The headline reads, ìI am not going to cry, I am not going to be afraid," a line from Fyssas's rap alter-ego Killah P. Here's another from "Dimokratia:" via whenthecrisishitthefan.com This headline is ominous: "Fear for the worst†ñ†Scenery of civil war." Another, from Eleftheros Tipos, says that "Greece at the doorstep of the madhouse." To see more, check out When The Crisis Hit The Fan. via whenthecrisishitthefan.com
Alex Wong/Getty Images Grow a spine, Mr. Boehner. Stand up to the crazies.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republicans in the House of Representatives set in motion on Wednesday a plan that ultimately could avert a federal government shutdown on October 1, turning a later battle over the debt ceiling into the main event in the conservative struggle against President Barack Obama's healthcare program. Obama accused Republicans of engaging in extortion by demanding a delay in "Obamacare" as the price of avoiding default that, were it to happen, would smash the U.S. economy. "You have never seen in the history of the United States the debt ceiling or the threat of not raising the debt ceiling being used to extort a President or a governing party," Obama told a group of business leaders. Undaunted, Republicans said Wednesday they would add other demands to their list, including approval of the Keystone oil pipeline. The action on the two separate measures, to continue funding the government and increase the government's borrowing authority by raising the debt ceiling, may begin as early as this week in the House, starting with the funding measure on Thursday or Friday. The debt ceiling, which could come up next week, is far more consequential because it could rattle world markets and lead to a downgrade of the government's credit rating or to default. Without Congress' approval, the government will be unable to borrow money to pay its debts sometime in mid-October, according to the Treasury Department. "A government shutdown, and perhaps even more so a failure to raise the debt limit, could have very serious consequences for the financial markets and for the economy," Fed chairman Ben Bernanke warned at a news conference. In an ominous move, Republicans said they will include in their temporary spending plan a provision they claim will prevent a debt default if Congress does not raise the debt limit on time. According to lawmakers, the provision is based on a bill that passed the House in May that allows the government to borrow money to pay bondholders and retirees if the Washington hits the debt limit. Most government programs would not be able to continuing operating, however, under such a scenario. The idea of directing the U.S. Treasury to prioritize payments is considered unworkable by the Obama administration. But it allows Republicans to claim that they did their best to avoid default. The usual uncertainty surrounding such showdowns is compounded this time for both Republicans and Democrats. Republicans are deeply divided over their tactical approach, with House Speaker John Boehner unable to control his members and increasingly portrayed by Tea Party activists as an enemy for trying to avoid linking the fiscal showdowns to the health care law. Boehner and other members of the House leadership tried unsuccessfully to avoid tying the funding and debt ceiling measures to Obamacare. At the same time, Obama's relationship with Democrats in Congress is more frayed following recent disagreements over Syria and Obama's choice to head the Federal Reserve. But for the moment, the carefully scripted legislative dance announced by Boehner Wednesday and racing against the October 1 end of the 2013 fiscal year, should go like this: A bill to fund the government temporarily, and thus avoid a shutdown, may move through the Republican-controlled House this week. Boehner is trying to round up the votes among his fellow Republicans to pass a funding bill that will last through December 15. It would keep in place tough spending caps imposed by the across-the-board cuts known as the "sequester." Boehner's task will be aided by language embedded in the bill and demanded by conservatives that would deny money to implement Obama's healthcare law, known as Obamacare, which next month begins signing up uninsured people for subsidized insurance. The Democratic-held Senate is expected to take the House-passed bill, strip out the troublesome Obamacare provision and then send it back to the House for final passage. To do this, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid will have to find at least six Republicans to cooperate with the overall plan. Though they are in lock-step opposition to Obamacare, some Senate Republicans consider it futile and politically suicidal to link efforts to kill it to the government funding or debt-ceiling measures. If Reid succeeds, and if the right combination of House Republicans and Democrats join forces to pass the retooled Senate bill, Congress will have side-stepped government shutdowns like the ones that roiled Washington in late 1995 and early 1996. Then, House Republicans will queue up the second battle over raising the $16.7 trillion limit on government borrowing - knowing the Treasury has said it will run out of ways to pay U.S. bills around mid-October. Past battles over the debt ceiling have rattled markets far more than threats of government shutdowns. Again, Republicans aim to attach to the debt measure a provision to delay or kill Obamacare, along with other contentious ideas, such as approving the Keystone oil pipeline that would run from Canada through the middle of the United States to the Gulf of Mexico. The Obama administration is weighing environmental concerns over that long-delayed project. Both steps are drawing heavy opposition from Democrats. At a brief news conference following a closed-door meeting of House Republicans, Boehner warned that this 2013 fight over the debt limit would be "no different" from his party's efforts in 2011 to link a debt limit hike to deficit-reduction efforts. That 2011 battle brought so much uncertainty over the U.S. government's ability to manage its fiscal affairs that it resulted in the first-ever downgrade of Washington's gold-standard credit rating and a months-long swoon in the stock market. Obama, meeting with CEOs at the Business Roundtable, expressed his weariness over yet another set of battles on spending and borrowing. He urged the business leaders to "make sure that you are using your influence in whatever way you can" to put a stop to the legislative upheavals over the debt limit and government funding. BLAMING EACH OTHER House Republicans, who bridle at the notion that they are the ones threatening a government shutdown and default, worked hard on Wednesday to argue to voters that they are not the ones to blame. "The president is shutting down the government because he wants to protect his pet project (Obamacare)," first-term Republican Representative Luke Messer told Reuters. Meanwhile, Democrats in Congress reminded reporters of the financial market gyrations witnessed during the last big spending and debt fight in mid-2011. Senator Charles Schumer, the third-ranking Democrat in the Senate, said the "extreme right wing" of the Republican Party was threatening a re-run of 2011. "We're closer to a default than we've ever been before," Schumer argued, saying Republican conservatives are more entrenched now. Republican lawmakers and some congressional aides downplayed the notion that Obama's recent legislative scrapes have emboldened them to take a hard line in this autumn's fights over spending levels and allowing more government borrowing. Instead, they cited a mix of other reasons, including the unpopularity of Obamacare in their home districts and the pressure of conservative lobbying groups such as the Club for Growth, who are pushing for the showdowns. (Additional reporting by David Lawder and Thomas Ferraro; Editing by Fred Barbash, Vicki Allen and Philip Barbara)
via U.S. ArmyHere's hoping you don't have any bills to pay.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Democrats and Republicans in the U.S. Congress are waging a budget battle that threatens a government shutdown on October 1 unless lawmakers reach a compromise on a federal spending measure. The last shutdowns occurred during the budget battle between the Republican-controlled Congress and President Bill Clinton in late 1995. Much of the federal government was closed for five days in November 1995 and then from mid-December 1995 to early January 1996. Many U.S. agencies also made preparations ahead of a threatened shutdown in 2011, and on Tuesday the Office of Management and Budget said agencies should update their contingency plans. Here is what the public might expect if the federal government is forced into a partial shutdown: FEDERAL WORKERS Employees in all three branches of government are vulnerable to furlough, or temporary unpaid leave, although each agency makes its own final decisions, according to a report last month by the Congressional Research Service. However, some high-level employees, such as the president and presidential appointees, are not subject to furlough. Other so-called "essential" workers must work during a shutdown, some with and others without pay. For example, exempt workers include those whose work is critical for national security or public health and safety, such as air traffic controllers and border security agents, according to federal guidance. Affected workers may be able to receive pay retroactively, as has happened after past shutdowns, but such payments are not guaranteed, CRS staff said. About 800,000 federal workers were furloughed in November 1995; the next month, nearly 300,000 were furloughed and another nearly 500,000 worked without pay. Federal contractors are also likely to be affected. In the last shutdown, more than 20 percent of federal contracts, or nearly $4 billion, were involved, researchers said. Members of Congress cannot be furloughed, according to CRS. PUBLIC SAFETY For the most part, services to protect the public should be the least affected by furlough, although workers could still face "no pay" status. Guidelines direct federal agencies to continue police work and criminal investigations and operate prisons, according to CRS. Work to care for critical patients, oversee food and drug safety, and protect federal research laboratories is also considered essential. FEDERAL BENEFITS The impact on the Social Security and Medicare entitlement programs is unclear. Delays could be seen in processing new claims, congressional researchers said. In the last shutdown, the Social Security Administration initially kept fewer than 5,000 workers on the job out of more than 66,000 workers. The agency then had to call back nearly 50,000 workers to provide critical services, CRS said. Military veterans could also see delays in processing of benefits as well as service cuts affecting health, income, travel and more, according to the research service. CRIME AND COURTS The U.S. judicial branch is likely to continue to operate for a period of time using various fees it receives. Judges, key court staff and probation officers would not be furloughed, although each court would determine its own staffing needs. Supreme Court justices and other critical federal judges would be paid while other essential staff would not, CRS said. Most federal courts "generally operated with limited disruption" during the 1995-1996 shutdown, it added. Still, thousands of bankruptcy and delinquent child support cases were delayed. Federal work related to the nation's banking system and the U.S. Treasury, such as borrowing and tax collection, are also deemed critical and likely to be exempted, according to federal guidelines. TOURISM AND TRAVEL Tens of thousands of Americans' passport applications could go unprocessed along with visa applications from foreigners seeking to visit the United States, which will affect airlines and other related industries. Hundreds of National Park Service sites could close temporarily along with national monuments and museums, losing millions of visitors. Such closures can also impact neighboring communities and businesses that depend on tourism. HEALTH In the last shutdown, the National Institutes of Health stopped enrolling new patients into clinical trials and shut down disease hotlines, CRS said. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which monitors foodborne illnesses and other outbreaks, also halted surveillance, it added. GOVERNMENT DATA Some U.S. economic data would likely be delayed. During the 2011 budget battles, a U.S. official said no data from the Commerce Department or from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which handles the closely watched monthly employment report, would be released in the event of a shutdown. (Reporting by Susan Heavey; Editing by Karey Van Hall and Jackie Frank)
AP/Marcio Jose SanchezSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - A high-profile Silicon Valley sex discrimination lawsuit moved closer to trial Wednesday after California's highest court rejected an effort by venture firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers to take a former partner's case against it to arbitration. The suit, which pits former partner Ellen Pao against one of Silicon Valley's most storied venture capital firms, alleges harassment, discrimination and retaliation. It became the talk of the Valley last year with its references to an affair and its allegations - denied by the firm - of sexual advances and sexist behavior. "I'm glad the court moved quickly after this series of delays from Kleiner, and that we're back on track to getting our day in court," Pao said in an email after the Supreme Court of California denied Kleiner's petition to review a lower court decision rejecting Kleiner's earlier attempt at arbitrating the case. Kleiner said it believed the case was without merit. "We intend to vigorously defend the matter and are confident we will prevail," said spokesperson Christina Lee in an email. The firm had argued that Pao's suit, filed in May 2012, should move to the private process of arbitration because Pao signed operating agreements for the venture funds in which she was involved that had mandatory arbitration clauses. Pao's lawyer, Alan Exelrod, has argued that the agreements did not apply because Pao was suing Kleiner itself - not its funds. Pao never signed any arbitration agreement with the firm itself, Exelrod has maintained. Kleiner could still appeal the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court. If it does not, the case will return to San Francisco Superior Court to start the discovery phase, said Exelrod. The case in Supreme Court of the State of California is Ellen Pao v Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers LLC and Does 1-20, case no. S212557. (Reporting by Sarah McBride; Editing by Ciro Scotti) MORE: The Sex Scandal That's Rocking Silicon Valley
Web Services via Flickr Remember why we bailed out the banks? Right--lending. (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve decided to hold off on scaling back its bond-buying program on Wednesday, and at least one reason for its choice may have been a stubbornly weak economic indicator: bank lending. Since the bottom of the recession just over four years ago, commercial bank loans and leases have grown 4.0 percent, one of the weakest post-recession recoveries in terms of borrowing since the 1960s, according to Paul Kasriel, the former chief economist of Northern Trust Company. For comparison, over the same period after the July 1990-March 1991 recession, loans and leases grew over four times faster. "Given what's happening to bank credit and given that the economy isn't booming, I would say it was very wise that the Fed did not choose to cut back on its asset purchases at this point," Kasriel said in an interview. In recent weeks, residential mortgage lending has dropped and commercial lending growth has slowed as Fed officials have talked about starting to wind down their bond buying stimulus program. That talk of "tapering" spooked bond markets, lifting long-term borrowing costs. The Fed noted in its statement that mortgage rates have risen, and added that "the tightening of financial conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow the pace of improvement in the economy and labor market." The central bank's statement underscores the narrow line the Fed must walk now between preventing asset bubbles and nurturing an economic recovery. As the Fed slows down its pace of bond buying in a program known as "Quantitative Easing III," it will cool markets that may be overheated. But it also risks making credit harder to come by, which could hurt a recovery that by many metrics looks tepid. Banks say they are more than happy to lend now, and that the real problem is that customers are less interested in borrowing. "The need for additional capital from the banking system isn't really there," said Perry Pylos, the head of commercial banking at Wells Fargo, about why corporations have not been drawing down their bank credit lines. A commercial lending executive at a large regional bank said, "we see more risk aversion today than we did three, four, five years ago." That risk aversion stems from doubt about future economic growth, and from big companies having other options for borrowing, most notably bond markets, bank executives and economists said. "Corporations have great balance sheets and just don't trust the economic recovery," said Ethan Harris, the co-head of global economics research at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. The commercial loans that are being extended are going towards replacing worn-out equipment rather expanding production, said John Asbury, the head of Regions Financial Corp's business services group, at a conference hosted by Barclays Capital last week in New York. One of the areas hardest hit by these changes is mortgage lending. The 30-year home loan rate is now at its highest level since at least 2011, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. With rising rates, applications to refinance mortgages fell in early September to their lowest levels since November 2008. "Mortgage is a challenge now," said BB&amp;T Corporation chief executive Kelly King at the Barclays conference. To be sure, some bankers believe that the Fed's quantitative easing has done little to help them, and its ending will have little impact on them. In fact, while the Fed has pumped about $2.8 trillion into the financial system through nearly five years of asset buying. Bank excess reserves deposited with the New York Fed have mushroomed from less than $2 billion before the financial crisis to $2.17 trillion today. In essence, roughly two-thirds of the money the Fed pumped into the banking system never left the building. "Adding more liquidity to a very liquid banking system doesn't do anything, so removing it doesn't do anything either," Wells Fargo's Pylos said. Nevertheless, the Fed may slow down its bond buying efforts amid a lukewarm economic recovery. U.S. unemployment fell to a 4-1/2 year low in August of 7.3 percent, but much of that is because fewer Americans are looking for work. The labor force participation rate, a measure of how many working-age American have a job or are seeking one, reached its lowest level since 1978. There are other signs of weakness, including the fact that consumer spending, new home sales, and durable good orders all weakened in July. The weak loan growth at banks looks even starker when compared to the money that banks have received in deposits, a measure of how much money banks could be lending. The eight largest U.S. banks by assets lent out 81.4 percent of the deposits they held in the second quarter of 2013, according to data compiled by Credit Suisse. That is well below the five-year peak of 104.2 percent in the second quarter of 2008 and even the below the 92.3 percent level of the second quarter of 2009 at the trough of the recession. Bank lending is "one of the important channels of monetary policy, and it's like a clogged pipe. It isn't really functioning," said Bank of America- Merrill Lynch's Harris. (Editing by Dan Wilchins, Dan Burns and Clive McKeef)
REUTERS/Larry DowningFed Chairman Ben BernankeMarkets were surprised on Wednesday when the Federal Reserve unexpectedly announced no tapering of its stimulative large-scale asset purchase program, which consists of the monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. But surprise is part of the deal when it comes to the Fed. "If FOMC meetings always went as expected, they would not be very important events to markets globally," wrote Morgan Stanley interest rate strategist Matthew Hornbach last Thursday. And then in one sentence, Hornbach really nailed it: "The Fed does not pander to market expectations." Hornbach was addressing how Fed forecasters were employing the idea of "credibility" to predict what the Fed could say in its FOMC statement. "In the case of tapering, the most common rationale used to explain why the Fed will taper in September deals with Fed credibility," he wrote. "Given the market expects the Fed to taper in September and the Fed has yet to push back in a meaningful way, not tapering would cause investors to lose faith in future Fed communications and create undue volatility. We find this logic flawed" Hornbach followed up on that point in a research note the next day. "[W]e do not think that it is a mistake to consider credibility when forecasting Fed policy if credibility is considered in the appropriate way," he said. "If credibility is used inappropriately to argue a point, we think it can mislead investor thinking." Credibility was just one of many non-economic reasons that experts used in their forecasts for a taper. But, those reasons may have been overemphasized in the incorrect forecasts. Let's go back and see exactly what Bernanke said when he laid out his roadmap for a tapering. From July 19: ...If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this forecast, the Committee currently anticipates that it would be appropriate to moderate the monthly pace of purchases later this year; and if the subsequent data remain broadly aligned with our current expectations for the economy, we would continue to reduce the pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half of next year, ending purchases around midyear... "Gee, it's almost as if the Fed weren't joking when it said the decision would be data-dependent," said BI's Joe Weisenthal after the FOMC announcement. Indeed it was always about economic data, not non-economic data. And the economists who got it right knew this. "We see a very close call, with a higher probability of tapering later this year (our base case is December) than at the September meeting," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michael Hanson last Friday who was one of the very few economists to be right. "While we expect the Fed to taper at one of the next three FOMC meetings, we see good reasons to be patient: recent data have, on balance, underperformed; the Fed needs to reduce its over-optimistic forecasts; and downside risks have re-emerged," he added. To some extent, many more economists had it right by scaling back their taper expectations to "taper-lite" in light of the deteriorating economic data. Unfortunately, when it comes to the markets, a little right is often just wrong.
U.K. retail sales unexpectedly fell 0.9% in August. This was much worse than the 0.4% gain expected by economists. The British pound instantly reacted by falling. Still, the FTSE 100 and equity markets around the world are still up strongly. Here's a look at the pound via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
Scott Olson / Getty ImagesWe are witnessing a historic global stock market rally in the wake of the Federal Reserve's surprising decision to keep its foot on the monetary stimulus gas pedal. On Wednesday, the Dow surged 0.9% to 15,676, and the S&amp;P 500 increased 1.2% to 1,725. Both closed at all-time highs. That was followed by a major rally in Asia. And Europe is blasting higher early in its trading session. U.S. stock market futures are pointing¬† modestly higher.
