FBIThe FBI needs to explain in more detail why it failed to realize that the older Boston bombing suspect, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was a terrorism risk. By the FBI's own admission, the FBI was warned about Tsarnaev in 2011 by a foreign government¬†(presumably Russia). The foreign government told the FBI that Tsarnaev had become "a follower of radical Islam and a strong believer and that he had changed drastically ... as he prepared to leave the United States for travel to the country's region to join unspecificied underground groups." In response to this warning, the FBI says it checked databases and interviewed Tsarnaev and other family members in the summer of 2011 but found no evidence of "terrorism activity." Then the FBI says it "requested more information" about Tsarnaev from the foreign government but never received it. Less than two years later, Tsarnaev is suspected of masterminding a successful terrorist attack on the city of Boston that killed three people and injured nearly 200. So the FBI has some questions to answer. Namely: Here's the key section of the FBI's statement: Once the FBI learned the identities of the two brothers today, the FBI reviewed its records and determined that in early 2011, a foreign government asked the FBI for information about Tamerlan Tsarnaev. The request stated that it was based on information that he was a follower of radical Islam and a strong believer, and that he had changed drastically since 2010 as he prepared to leave the United States for travel to the country‚Äôs region to join unspecified underground groups. In response to this 2011 request, the FBI checked U.S. government databases and other information to look for such things as derogatory telephone communications, possible use of online sites associated with the promotion of radical activity, associations with other persons of interest, travel history and plans, and education history. The FBI also interviewed Tamerlan Tsarnaev and family members. The FBI did not find any terrorism activity, domestic or foreign, and those results were provided to the foreign government in the summer of 2011. The FBI requested but did not receive more specific or additional information from the foreign government.
The White House released a photo late Friday night of President Barack Obama learning of the Boston bomb suspect's capture and arrest. Obama was briefed by†Lisa Monaco, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism, in the Oval Office of the White House. "All in all this has been a tough week, but we have seen the character of our country once more," Obama said later from the White House. "And as president, I'm confident that we have the courage and the resilience and the spirit to overcome these challenges and to go forward as one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all." Here's the photo, taken by White House photographer Pete Souza: White House photo/Pete Souza
FBI The FBI confirmed Friday night that the agency interviewed Boston bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev in 2011 about suspected ties to Islamic extremists, but closed his file after failing to find any "derogatory" information.¬† Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed in a shootout with Boston Police Thursday night. His younger brother, Dzhokar Tsarnaev, 19, was captured by authorities in Watertown, Mass., Friday.¬† According to a statement released by the FBI Friday night, the agency interviewed Tamerlan Tsarnaev in 2011 at the request of a foreign government. That request was based on information that Tamerlan was a follower of radical Islam and was preparing to "leave the United States for travel to the¬†country‚Äôs region to join unspecified underground groups."¬† The FBI did not specify which foreign government requested information about Tsarnaev. The suspects were of Chechen descent, and emigrated to the U.S. about 10 years ago from Russia's turbulent Caucusus region.¬† The FBI states that it looked into Tamerlan's background, including phone communications and Internet use, and interviewed the suspect and his family, but "did¬†not find any terrorism activity, domestic or foreign."¬† The FBI's statement appears to be consistent with statements made by the two suspects' mother,¬†Zubeidat K. Tsarnaeva.  In an interview with Russia Today Friday, Tsarnaeva said that she had been contacted by the FBI about her eldest son several years ago, and that the agency had believed him to be a "serious leader" with ties to Islamic extremists.¬† Tsarnaeva said that the FBI had later told her that Tamerlan had been cleared. She believed that this was evidence that her sons had been "set up" by the FBI.¬† Read the full FBI statement below:¬† The two individuals believed to be responsible for the Boston Marathon bombings on Monday have been positively identified as Tamerlan Tsaraev, now deceased, and Dzhokar Tsarnaev, now in custody. These individuals are brothers and residents of Massachusetts. Tamerlan Tsaraev was a legal permanent resident and Dzhokar Tsaraev is a naturalized U.S. citizen. Charges have not yet been filed against Dzhokar Tsarnaev and he is presumed innocent. Tamerlan Tsarnaev, age 26, was previously designated as Suspect 1, wearing a black hat. Dzhokar A. Tsarnaev, age 19, was designated as Suspect 2, wearing a white hat. Both were born in Kyrgyzstan. Once the FBI learned the identities of the two brothers today, the FBI reviewed its records and determined that in early 2011, a foreign government asked the FBI for information about Tamerlan Tsarnaev. The request stated that it was based on information that he was a follower of radical Islam and a strong believer, and that he had changed drastically since 2010 as he prepared to leave the United States for travel to the country‚Äôs region to join unspecified underground groups. In response to this 2011 request, the FBI checked U.S. government databases and other information to look for such things as derogatory telephone communications, possible use of online sites associated with the promotion of radical activity, associations with other persons of interest, travel history and plans, and education history. The FBI also interviewed Tamerlan Tsarnaev and family members. The FBI did not find any terrorism activity, domestic or foreign, and those results were provided to the foreign government in the summer of 2011. The FBI requested but did not receive more specific or additional information from the foreign government. 
U.S. Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and John McCain (R-Ariz.) said Friday evening that the Obama administration should detain Boston suspect†Dzhokhar A. Tsarnaev as an "enemy combatant," less than two hours after he was caught and arrested by police. "Now that the suspect is in custody, the last thing we should want is for him to remain silent," the two Senators said in the statement. "It is absolutely vital the suspect be questioned for intelligence gathering purposes. We need to know about any possible future attacks which could take additional American lives. The least of our worries is a criminal trial which will likely be held years from now." "Under the Law of War we can hold this suspect as a potential enemy combatant not entitled to Miranda warnings or the appointment of counsel. Our goal at this critical juncture should be to gather intelligence and protect our nation from further attacks." "We remain under threat from radical Islam and we hope the Obama Administration will seriously consider the enemy combatant option."† A person designated as an enemy combatant may be detained for the duration of a conflict. But potentially holding Tsarnaev ó an American citizen on American soil ó as an enemy combatant would set a huge precedent. In a statement at the White House late Friday, Obama strongly suggested that his administration would not do so, cautioning against a rush to judgment. "It is important that we do this right. That is why we have investigations. We relentlessly gather facts. That is why we have courts," Obama said. Earlier in the day, Graham suggested that if the suspect was captured, the Obama administration should treat him as an enemy combatant: Twitter/@GrahamBlog Twitter/@GrahamBlog Twitter/@GrahamBlog This post has been updated.
NBC NewsPresident Barack Obama wrapped up a grueling week for the nation by hailing a victory ó the capture and†arrest of the suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings.† "We've closed an important chapter in this tragedy," Obama said in the White House briefing room shortly after 10 p.m. Friday night. The "terrorists" in Boston†failed, he said, "because the people of Boston refused to be intimidated." Obama addressed the nation after a surprising twist in the Boston case. After a near 24-hour manhunt, police took suspect†Dzhokar Tsarnaev into custody late Friday night. Obama spoke after officials wrapped up their press conference in Boston, and he hailed local and federal law enforcement for their work this week. Obama said that though one suspect had been apprehended and the other killed early Friday morning, there were still plenty of unanswered questions, including whether the two suspects had any help.† "Why did young men who grew up and studied here ... resort to such violence?" he asked. "We will determine how this happened. We will investigate any associations that these terrorists may have had," he added. But he cautioned against rushing to judgment, warning against accepting "reporting, tweets, and blogs" at face value.† Obama also made mention of the fertilizer plant explosion in West, Texas, which has claimed at least 14 lives.†He pledged that his administration would continue to provide resources to the area, saying he has been in contact with local officials and Gov. Rick Perry.† After his press conference, he signed a disaster declaration. That wrapped up a tough week ó one he said tested the resolve of the American people, who passed with flying colors. "All in all this has been a tough week, but we have seen the character of our country once more," he said. "And as president, I'm confident that we have the courage and the resilience and the spirit to overcome these challenges and to go forward as one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all."
Photos are emerging from the arrest of one of the suspected bombers of the Boston Marathon.¬† After a nearly 24-hour standoff, 19-year-old¬†Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, known as "Suspect 2,"¬†was caputured by police in Watertown, Mass., Friday evening. Here's the shot of the arrest, courtesy of @BMTrader: BMTrader / Twitter
CNNBoston Mayor Tom MeninoOfficials are holding a press conference after announcing the arrest of Boston bombing suspect†Dzhokar Tsarnaev.† Boston Police Chief Ed Davis said that the suspect was in "serious condition" at a local hospital. Davis said that police caught the suspect after being alerted by a man living in the house, who walked outside and saw blood around his boat. He opened the tarp and saw a the suspect covered in blood, retreated, and alerted police. "We set up a perimeter around that boat and over the course of the next hour or so, we exchanged gunfire with the suspect who was inside the boat," Davis said. "And ultimately, the hostage rescue team or FBI made an entry into the boat and removed the suspect who was still alive in the boat." "We're exhausted folks, but we have a victory here tonight," Massachusetts Police Col. Timothy Allen said. "Tonight we feel a tremendous sense of gratitude and relief," said U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz. "Tonight we can sleep a little bit easier." Said Boston Mayor Tom Menino: "I just want to say thank you, thank you, thank you." "I feel so good about this, I tell you. I'm so happy. And people in the greater Boston area will sleep tonight."
www.abc6.comThree people are being questioned in the Boston suburb of New Bedford, Mass., in connection with the Boston Marathon bombings suspect, according to multiple reports. WBSH-AM, a New Bedford station, and¬†Fox News¬†report that local and state police and FBI agents searched suspect Dzhokar¬†Tsarnaev's dorm room at the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth. That led them to an apartment complex in New Bedford's West End, where they took two men and one woman into custody for questioning. Unconfirmed reports have suggested that the woman is Dzhokar's girlfriend. According to Reuters' Edith Honan, the development comes "on the assumption there is an affiliation" with Dzhokar Tsarnaev. He was arrested and taken into custody late Friday night. Two men and 1 woman being questioned in New Bedford, Mass on the assumption there is an affiliation with suspect 2" -local police
Boston Mayor Tom Menino celebrated the capture of Boston Marathon bombing suspect††Dzhokhar Tsarnaev Friday night with a few†simple tweets:† "We got him" #oneboston twitter.com/mayortommeninoÖ On the radio. "Your mayor is very proud of you" twitter.com/mayortommeninoÖ Teamwork. twitter.com/mayortommeninoÖ CAPTURED!!! The hunt is over. The search is done. The terror is over. And justice has won. Suspect in custody.
The crowd in Watertown, Mass., erupted into cheers as Boston bombing suspect Dzhokar Tsarnaev was taken into custody late Friday night, completing a near 24-hour manhunt.¬† Watch the video below: ¬†
A 7.0 magnitude earthquake has hit China in Western Sichuan at 8:02 AM Beijing time. This is according to the China Earthquake Networks Center via Xinhua News. The USGS has measured the earthquake at 6.9. Sichuan is far inland.¬† See map below. So far, there are no reports if injuries or major damage. However, the event happened just minutes ago. In 2008, an earthquake hit the Sichuan, killing an estimated 68,000 people. Bing Maps
According to every news network, the Marathon Bombing suspect is in a boat is cornered in a boat iin the back of Franklin Street. Via Blake Hounshell and Bing Maps, this is almost certainly it. Bing For full coverage of the reported standoff, see here &gt; And here's a street view. RT @billy_baker: Photo of boat where suspect is hiding, taken from street view Bing map, via WBZ's @peteswire. twitter.com/PetesWire/stat‚Ä¶
APUPDATE: Suspect 2 Dzhokar Tsarnaev has been caught. PREVIOUSLY: In a press conference that raised more questions than it answered, Massachusetts law enforcement threw a wrench into what we knew about the events that unfolded over the last 18 hours of the Boston manhunt.† Massachusetts State Police Col. Timothy Alben and Gov. Deval Patrick provided several new details about the manhunt that conflicted with previous reports and accounts. Here's what we know now about the shootout between police and the two suspects, Tamerlan and†Dzhokhar Tsarnaev:† In a matter unrelated to the press conference, the FBI told CBS†that it had spoken to suspect†Tamerlan Tsarnaev two years ago, but did not find any extremist ties.
CNNBoston officials are holding a press conference to provide updates on the manhunt in Boston, which is now focused on 19-year-old¬†Dzhokhar A. Tsarnaev. Col. Timothy Alben of the Massachusetts State Police said that police have not apprehended any suspects, but he added "we will have one." Alben said that the suspect fled on foot.¬† "We are committed to seeing a conclusion to this case," Alben said. The suspect is likely still in Massachusetts, Alben said. Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick said that the investigation was effectively at the same point as "Monday night" or "Tuesday morning." "We are where we were effectively as of Monday night [or] Tuesday morning, with a couple of exceptions," Patrick said. Patrick lifted the "stay indoors" request and announced that public transit is running again. But he urged everyone to remain vigilant.
Crumbs, the world's largest cupcake company,¬†isn't doing very well.¬† The company's stock plunged shortly after its 2011 IPO from $13 to $3.75 when its earnings missed Wall Street estimates.¬†It started tanking again last week when Crumbs¬†announced that sales would be 22% lower¬†than projected. Crumbs also indicated that certain locations ‚Äúincapable of reaching acceptable levels of financial performance‚Äù would need to close, according to the Wall Street Journal. This collapse led the Journal's Emily Maltby and Sarah E. Needleman to declare that the gourmet cupcake market is crashing. Judging by the often deserted Crumbs across the street from Business Insider, we are inclined to agree. (The two Starbucks down the block seem much more crowded.)¬† For a somewhat systematic evaluation of this Crumbs on Park Ave South in Manhattan, we sent reporters to make observations throughout the day. Here's what we saw on Thursday, April 18:¬† 7:11 to 7:16 a.m.: Deputy Editor Gus Lubin checks out the scene right after Crumbs opens at 7. No customers:¬† 8:43-8:48 a.m.: Retail reporter Ashley Lutz spends a few minutes at Crumbs during the morning rush hour. Minutes earlier, the Starbucks around the corner had a line of at least 20 people. At Crumbs, one man sits alone, eating a pastry and reading a newspaper. There are two people in line, but they buy coffee, not cupcakes:¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider 10:30-10:50 a.m.: Lifestyle reporter Megan Willett said seven customers came in during a span of 20 minutes. Most customers only ordered coffee, but one woman bought two dozen cupcakes for an office party. Megan noted that the cupcakes were well-stocked and the employees were helpful. Her own cupcake was good, too:¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider 12:50-1:05 p.m.: Retail reporter Megan Durisin sees one customer eating a cupcake in the store. Only one employee was working at the store. She eats a "birthday" cupcake, white cake with rainbow sprinkles:¬† Megan Durisin/Business Insider 2 p.m.-2:05 p.m.: Senior Editor Julie Zeveloff noticed five customers in the store buying "post-lunch coffee and a snack." Some of the cupcake trays were half-empty.¬† Julie Zeveloff/Business Insider 4:50-5 p.m: This is the busiest Crumbs has been all day. Business reporter Max Nisen notices seven customers total in the late afternoon. The customers get coffees, cupcakes, and beverages.¬† Max Nisen/Business Insider While Crumbs had customers through the day, it was never actually crowded.¬† It's worth noting that Crumbs was founded in Manhattan a decade ago, meaning that NYC residents are very familiar with the brand. There are 21 Crumbs stores in Manhattan alone. Market saturation is a big problem for Crumbs. Cupcakes are an easy product to replicate, and competitors such as Magnolia Bakery and Sprinkles began expanding aggressively after Crumbs went public.¬† Crumbs said in a recent earnings statement that it was slowing down on its plan for expansion.¬† Consumers might also be tired of cupcakes.¬† Eric Rodawig at Seeking Alpha notes that Google traffic for the word "cupcake" peaked in 2011.¬† The "novelty has worn off,"¬†¬†Kevin Burke, a managing partner of investment banking firm Trinity Capital, told the¬†Wall Street Journal.¬† Business Insider's Max Nisen notes that the company has used promotions to get customers in stores.¬† "The only time I've seen a real line at the place was when they were doing the dollar ice coffee promotion last summer," said Nisen, who has argued that gourmet cupcakes are simply an awful business.
Zubeidat K. Tsarnaeva,¬†the¬†mother of Boston bombing suspects¬†Dzhokar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev, suggested Friday that the FBI had been surveilling her older son for several years prior to Monday's attack.  In an interview with Russia Today Friday, Tsarnaeva said that Tamerlan Tsarnaev¬†got involved in "religious politics" five years ago, and that the FBI had previously contacted her about her son's activities.¬† "He was controlled by the FBI, like for three, five years," she said.¬†"They knew what my son was doing, they knew what actions and what sites on the Internet he was going [to], they used to come...and talk to me...they were telling me that he was really a serious leader and they were afraid of him."¬† "How could this happen?...They were controlling every step of him, and they are telling today that this is a terrorist attack," she added.¬† A spokesperson for the FBI told¬†Business Insider¬†Friday that the agency would be putting out a statement "shortly" regarding its¬†previous contact with either of the¬†Tsarnaev suspects. The spokesperson would not confirm or deny that the agency had had any previous contact.¬† Tsarnaeva doubled down on her statements later in the interview, insisting that her sons were innocent, and had been "set up" by the FBI:¬† "FBI, they were scared of my oldest son, they always told me that he's a leader...they are afraid of him because, you know, he is a leader, he talks about Islam a lot."¬† "They were talking to my son, and they called me officially and they told me that my son is an excellent boy and they have no problem with him," she added. "At the same time, they were telling me that...he is getting information on really extremists...sites, so they were very, very afraid of him. So that's why I think that this is a setup."¬† Tamerlan, 26, died Thursday night in a shootout with Boston Police. A manhunt is still underway for Tsarnaeva's younger son, Dzhoker, 19.¬† Watch the clip below:¬†  UPDATE, 5:58 p.m.:¬† CBS News' Bob Orr reports that the FBI interviewed Tamerlan Tsarnaev two years ago about his ties to extremist groups.¬† From CBS' Major Garrett:¬† From CBS'Bob Orr: FBIinterviewed Tamarlan Tsarnaev 2 yrs ago abt extremist ties, found nothing &amp; closed file. More on CBS Evening News
As seen on CNN. CNN screencap
Natick PoliceZubeidat K. Tsarnaeva, the†mother of Boston bombing suspects†Dzhokar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev, told television networks that she believes her sons were set up.† "I am 100 percent sure that this is a setup," she told Russia Today. "My two sons are really innocent and neither of them have ever talked about what they said now."† She added later, however, that her older son, Tamerlan, got involved in "religious politics" five years ago. And she appeared to suggest that she had been contacted by the FBI about Tamerlan prior to the marathon bombing attacks.† "He was controlled by the FBI for five years," she said."They knew what my son was doing, they knew what sites on the Internet he was going [to], they used to come...and talk to me...they were telling me that he was a serious leader and they were afraid of him."† "So how could this happen?" "It's impossible for both of them to do those things," she added. "If there was anyone who would know, it would be me, the mother."† Her remarks echo those of other relatives of the suspects, including their father and their aunt, both of whom insisted Friday that the two men were innocent and had been set up by the police.† Watch her full interview with Russia Today below:† 
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Down Week On S&amp;P 500 Is Just A Blip¬†(Capital Economics) The S&amp;P 500 will have seen one of its worst weeks of the year when trading closes Friday, but Capital Economics' John Higgins says we should ignore it. "We only expect the S&amp;P 500 to fall to 1,500 by the end of 2013, before rallying to 1,600 in 2014. After all, with growth at home showing signs of slowing and inflation signs of easing, the Fed is unlikely to be in any rush to halt its asset purchases altogether. Meanwhile, an actual rate hike still seems a very long way off." KURODA: The G-20 Blessed Japan's Quantitative Easing Program Today¬†(Business Insider) Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda emerged from a G-20 meeting today saying group members are willing to let him continue the bank's asset-purchasing program. As a result, the dollar was up 1.4% today against the yen. Kuroda explained that member nations' leaders¬†understand quantitative easing is needed in order for Japan to achieve price stability. Here's the chart showing the plunging yen:  California Distressed Home Sales Hit Lowest Since Sept. 2007¬†(Calculated Risk) Just 15.2 percent of all California homes sold last month had been foreclosed on during the past year ‚Äì the lowest level since September 2007, when foreclosure resales were 12.6 percent of the market. Last month‚Äôs figure compares with 18.0 percent in February and 32.8 percent a year earlier. Foreclosure resales peaked at 58.8 percent in February 2009. Chicago Fed Index Reach Loosest Level Since Feb. 2007¬†(Mark Perry) The¬†Chicago Fed National Financial Conditions Index,¬†a measure of risk, liquidity and leverage in fixed income and equity markets, fell last week to the¬†lowest level since February 2007. It means credit conditions continue to ease. FRED ¬† The Inflation Hawks May Have Capitulated (Kit Juckes via FT Alphaville)  Rising real U.S. treasury¬†yields are now matched by an equally sharp fall in breakeven inflation rates, Societe Generale's Kit Juckes notes (via FT Alphaville). This is not supposed to happen. Five-year breakeven inflation rose from a "distorted low" of -0.5% in October 2008 to almost 3% in 2011. Meanwhile, "real yields" from October 2008 to now have grown to -1.77%, compared with +3.2%. In this month alone inflation fell -0.6% to 1.95%. "Whether this is a position-driven adjustment or capitulation by those who fear that current monetary policies must inevitably lead to an outbreak of inflation, it looks very like a series of dominoes falling over," he writes.
Italian Democratic Party senator Stefano Esposito has tweeted that Pier Luigi Bersani will resign (via Alberto Nardelli). This likely adds to the ongoing political chaos going on in Italy in the wake of the country's February elections, which failed to produce a clear winner. At the time, Bersani was favored to win and form a government.¬† However, that sentiment has obviously shifted. ¬† Tra pochi minuti @pbersani si dimetter√† davanti all'assemblea dei grandi elettori @pdnetwork
Getty ImagesRepublican Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham urged lawmakers Friday not to use the Boston bombings as an excuse to delay or halt progress on the comprehensive immigration bill now pending in the Senate.¬† Here's their statement:¬† ‚ÄúIn the wake of this week‚Äôs terrorist attack in Boston, some have already suggested that the circumstances of this terrible tragedy are justification for delaying or stopping entirely the effort for comprehensive immigration reform. In fact the opposite is true: Immigration reform will strengthen our nation‚Äôs security by helping us identify exactly who has entered our country and who has left ‚Äì a basic function of government that our broken immigration system is incapable of accomplishing today. The status quo is unacceptable. We have 11 million people living in the shadows, which leaves this nation vulnerable to a myriad of threats. That is all the more reason why comprehensive immigration reform is so essential. By modernizing our system of legal immigration, identifying and conducting background checks on people here illegally, and finally securing our border, we will make America more secure.‚Äù McCain and Graham's admonition¬†come in response to the warnings of several vocal immigration foes, who have argued that¬†any plans to legalize undocumented workers and change the visa system should be put off until more is known about the two suspects in the Boston bombing attacks.¬† Other members of the "Gang Of Eight," including¬†Sens. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) have similarly cautioned their Senate colleagues to avoid conflating the attacks with the immigration issue. And in an interview with Bloomberg's Al Hunt Friday, "Gang of Eight" member¬†Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) echoed Graham and McCain, detailing how the bill is "important for national security."¬† "First, we're going to make a dramatic investment in our border with Mexico," he said. "Secondly, everyone, the 11 million people who were basically living in the shadows in America have to come forward, register with the government, go through a criminal background check.¬† That will make us safer."¬†
Flickr / Happy MonkeyOverall, it was a quiet day in the markets. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,547, +10.3 pts, +0.0%S&amp;P 500: 1,555, +13.6 pts, +0.8%NASDAQ: 3,206, +39.7 pts, +1.2% And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Here is the†stirring New Yorker cover for its latest issue, "Shadow Over Boston." ìA bomb at a marathon, right at the finish line of a festive occasionóit seemed almost like a mixed metaphor, incongruous and absurd," said cover artist Eric Drooker. "Those are just the things that flashed through my head as I started painting.î New Yorker
Law enforcement continue to search throughout the northeast for the remaining suspect in the terror attack at the Boston Marathon. Dzhokar Tsarnaev is the lone identified suspect still on the loose, and the¬†FBI is releasing photos, descriptions of vehicles he may be driving, and seeking tips¬†(If you have any, call 1-800-CALL-FBI). Besides the official releases, people in the area are taking to Twitter to release their own photos of what's happening ‚Äî usually from the windows of their homes as police move about. There are two hashtags to follow for what's going on: #manhunt, and #bostonbombing. Here's what we've seen so far: Holy crap, they got snipers on the shed #manhunt twitter.com/theN0w/status/‚Ä¶ More SWAT arrive #BostonBombing #Manhunt twitter.com/FreshBananas/s‚Ä¶ #Boston door to door search for "Terrorist" in #Boston Marathon Bombing..Stay safe #Boston #manhunt #watertown twitter.com/robynd323/stat‚Ä¶ This is wild. ‚Äú@munkyboii: Just got searched for safety measures for the #manhunt in #watertown twitter.com/MunKYBoii/stat‚Ä¶‚Äù More swat arriving. #manhunt #watertown twitter.com/aaronspagnolo/‚Ä¶ a nineteen year old... #ManHunt twitter.com/kimbo_preis/st‚Ä¶ RT @mozaie: "@youranonnews: Welcome to #Boston! twitter.com/57UN/status/32‚Ä¶ Via @57un"whoa some scary stuff #bostonbombing #Anonymous More military presence, staging a search #watertown #manhunt #bostonbombing twitter.com/MunKYBoii/stat‚Ä¶
The White House just released a photo of President Barack Obama meeting with his top national security advisors in the White House Situation Room Friday morning for a briefing on the manhunt for 19-year-old Boston bombing suspect†Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.† According to a White House pool report, officials were updated on the investigation and briefed on the police shootout in Watertown, Mass., in which Boston Police shot and killed the first bombing suspect, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26.† Pictured in the photo, from left, are:†FBI Director Robert Mueller; Lisa Monaco, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism; Attorney General Eric Holder; Deputy National Security Advisor Tony Blinken; and Vice President Joe Biden. White House via FlickrAlso in attendace were White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough, National Security Advisor Tom Donilon, Deputy Chief of Staff Alyssa Mastromonaco, Deputy National Security Advisor For Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes, Deputy Counsel to the President Avril Haines, and National Security Advisor to the Vice President Jake Sullivan. Joining by video conference were Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Secretary of State John Kerry, and CIA Director John Brennan, according to the pool report.†
The Japanese yen is getting really close to 100 against the U.S. dollar. It just hit a low of 99.67 against the dollar following comments from Bank of Japan governor Haruhiko Kuroda that the G-20 meeting today gave him confidence to continue easing, but has since retreated to around 99.51. The dollar is up 1.4% today against the yen. Kuroda said he told the G-20 that Japan is engaged in monetary easing to achieve its new, 2% inflation target, that the G-20 understands that easing is needed in order to achieve price stability, and that it was good that Japan won this understanding from the G-20. Below is a chart of the dollar-yen exchange rate today. The yen hasn't seen 100 against the dollar since April 14, 2009. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
Apple is the second largest stock in the S&amp;P 500, and it is by far the largest company in the information technology sector. As such, it has a huge impact on aggregate earnings growth. The iPhone maker is scheduled to report its Q1 earnings next Tuesday.¬† And analysts expect earnings per share to fall to $10.03 from $12.30 a year ago. "As a result of this expected decrease in EPS and Apple‚Äôs earnings weight in the index, the company is projected to be the largest contributor to the year-over-year decline in earnings projected for the Information Technology sector in the first quarter," says FactSet's John Butters.¬† "The earnings growth rate for the Information Technology sector is -4.0%. If Apple is excluded, the earnings growth for the sector improves to 0.2%." Here's a look at three and a half years of IT sector earnings growth with and without Apple. Factset
CNNA Toronto woman who identified herself as the Boston Marathon bombings suspects' aunt suggested to reporters Friday afternoon that her nephews had been set up.† "All these pictures are on the computer," Maret Tsarnaeva told reporters in a press conference that was aired by CNN. "I have to see them. You have to have a motive first ó something that would drive you to some actions. They cannot go crazy or mad or sick just for one day. As far as I know, they are fine." "I don't trust the FBI," she added. "Show me evidence." She was asked who she thinks set them up.† "Whoever needs this," she said, shrugging. "Whoever is looking for those who need to be blamed for these attacks." That was a different take from the one expressed by an uncle of the suspects who spoke with reporters in an angry press conference earlier Friday. Ruslan†Tsarni called both of the suspects "losers," and he urged Dzhokar to turn himself in.† "What I think was behind it: Being losers," he said. Here's the video of the suspects' aunt with reporters:
Wikimedia CommonsThe value of the yen has fallen sharply since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office in December on a promise to defeat deflation, while the Bank of Japanís decision this month to ramp up its asset-buying program has fueled its decline In theory, the yenís depreciation should be positive for Japanís trade balance. A weaker currency generally boosts demand for a countryís exports as they become cheaper in international markets, while dampening domestic consumption of imports as their prices increase in local currency terms. But, paradoxically, the opposite is happening in Japan. Japan posted a trade deficit of •777.5 billion in February ñ the countryís eighth consecutive monthly trade shortfall ñ as exports fell 2.9 percent from a year earlier and imports rose 11.9 percent. The persistent trade deficit confirms a call made earlier this year by Credit Suisse, which forecast the depreciation in the value of the yen would do little to improve Japanís trade balance, at least in the short term. ìOur analysis thus indicates that a depreciation of the yen will not boost export volume sufficiently over a one-year horizon to offset the negative impact of a deterioration in the terms of trade,î Credit Suisse analysts said in a report entitled ìDevaluation of the Yen Would Widen Trade Balance Deficit.î So, why isnít the depreciation in the value of the yen translating into stronger demand for Japanese exports and weaker imports? Part of the reason, according to Credit Suisse economists Hiromichi Shirakawa and Takashi Shiono, is that Japan has a virtual monopoly over some products, such as certain electronic components and high-tech materials, which means fluctuations in the value of the yen have limited impact on overseas demand. Customers who need these products are buying them, regardless of the value of the yen. ìGiven that the ëaverageí Japanese manufactured export can be considered somewhat differentiated in this fashion, there is likely to be a certain threshold (saturation point) beyond which depreciation of the yen has relatively little impact on foreign demand,î the analysts wrote. ìSimilarly, if differentiated Japanese-made intermediate products are an essential input into the manufacturing process (meaning that demand is relatively price inelastic), then an appreciation of the yen should have comparatively little impact on export volume in the short term.î Another reason is the global economic downturn, especially in China. Shipments to China ñ one of Japanís most important export markets ñ have fallen sharply in recent months largely due to the slowdown in the worldís second-largest economy.† A bitter territorial dispute between Tokyo and Beijing over a string of islands in the East China Sea contributed too. On the other side of the trade balance, Japan is wrestling with a soaring import bill, Credit Suisse noted. Imports of natural gas and oil have risen sharply since Japanese power generators switched to fossil fuels from nuclear power. The government shuttered nuclear power plants in response to the 2011 Fukushima Daiichi disaster. The weaker currency has driven up the cost of these energy imports, exacerbating the countryís trade deficit. Credit Suisse expects Japanís trade deficit to persist until the end of next year, which the Brookings Institutionís Joshua Meltzer thinks is not such a bad thing as the country seeks to reduce its reliance on exports to drive economic growth. ìPart of whatís going on in Japan at the moment is an attempt to rebalance some of their domestic drivers so they are less dependent on external demand and have more robust domestic demand, which can drive the economy,î Meltzer, a trade policy expert, told The Financialist But there could be a tipping point. Over the longer term, a stalled export machine ñ despite a weakening yen ñ could cause expectations of further yen depreciation, triggering ìan outflow of domestic savings of sufficient magnitude and speed to destabilize financial markets,î Credit Suisse warned in a report entitled ìThree years to go for CPI to rise to +2%, butÖî This could ultimately leave policymakers with little option but to start defending the currency by hiking short-term interest rates, which are currently hovering near zero. If that happens, the value of the yen could start heading north.
GettyThe revelation that the two suspects in the Boston bombings may be immigrants with ties to Chechnya is unlikely to help efforts to pass comprehensive immigration reform as lawmakers debate new legislation in the coming weeks. In the wake of Monday's attacks, opponents of immigration have sought to tie the issue to the bombings, arguing that any plans to legalize undocumented workers and overhaul the visa system should be delayed until more information is known about the suspects. ‚ÄúSome of the speculation that has come out is that yes, it was a foreign national and, speculating here, that it was potentially a person on a student visa,‚Äù conservative Rep. Steve King, a major immigration reform foe, told the National Review Online this week. ‚ÄúIf that‚Äôs the case, then we need to take a look at the big picture.‚Äù On Friday, the bombings were front and center at the Senate's first immigration hearing, as Iowa Republican Sen. Chuck Grassley argued that the attacks provide an opportunity to refocus the immigration debate around national security issues. ‚ÄúWe are here trying to understand why these events have occurred,‚Äù said Grassley, the ranking GOP member on the Judiciary Committee. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs hard to understand that there are people in this world that want to do Americans harm, so this hearing is an opportunity to refocus on the issues at hand and the importance of remaining vigilant and secure in our homeland.‚Äù "While we don‚Äôt yet know the immigration status of the people who have terrorized the communities in Massachusetts, when we find out, it will help shed light on the weaknesses of our system," Grassley said. "How can individuals evade authorities and plan such attacks on our soil? How can we beef up security checks on people who wish to enter the U.S.? How do we ensure that people who wish to do us harm are not eligible for benefits under the immigration laws, including this new bill before us?" Acutely aware that the attacks could derail any immigration reform efforts, members of the Gang of Eight and several Democratic representatives have urged caution in linking the Boston attacks to immigration. "There are legitimate policy questions to ask and answer about what role our immigration system played, if any, in what happened," Alex Conant, a spokesman for U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said in a statement to Business Insider. "Regardless of the circumstances in Boston, immigration reform that strengthens our borders and gives us a better accounting of who is in our country and why will improve our national security. Americans will reject any attempt to tie the losers responsible for the attacks in Boston with the millions of law-abiding immigrants currently living in the US and those hoping to immigrate here in the future." At the Senate hearing Friday, Democratic Sen. Chuck Schumer, another architect of the immigration bill, also stressed the need for lawmakers to avoid letting the attacks cloud their judgement of the legislation. "I'd like to ask that all of us not jump to conclusions regarding events in Boston or conflate those events with this legislation," Schumer said. "In general, we're a safer country when law enforcement knows who is here, has their fingerprints, photos, etcetera, conducted background checks," he continued. "Two days ago, as you may recall, there was widespread erroneous reports of arrests being made. This just emphasizes how important it is to allow the actual facts to come out before jumping to any conclusions." So far, the immigration status of the two Boston bombing suspects is still unclear. The brothers, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, are believed to be of Chechen descent, and to have immigrated to the U.S. from Kazakhstan around 2003. Dzhokhar¬†is believed to have been born in Kyrgyzstan, which is not unusual for Chechens displaced by war in Russia's Caucusus region. Tamerlan was killed in a shootout with Boston police Thursday night. A manhunt is currently underway for Dzhokhar.¬† In an interview with reporters Friday, the brothers' uncle, Ruslan Tsarni, said that the brothers came to the U.S. under asylum, although that has not been confirmed. If true, however, their emigration would not have been affected by any of the immigration reform measures currently being considered in Congress. Still, the immigration status of the Tsarnaev brothers is unlikely to matter much to opponents of immigration reform. Already, conservatives are slamming the Gang of Eight ‚Äî and Rubio in particular ‚Äî over the issue. Here's a tweet from conservative firebrand Ann Coulter this morning:¬† It's too bad Suspect # 1 won't be able to be legalized by Marco Rubio, now.
IBM reported earnings results from the first quarter last night, and it missed analysts' consensus estimates on both the top and bottom lines. The stock immediately dropped in after-hours trading yesterday following the announcement, but it's continued to head lower all day long today. Right now, shares are down 8.0%, trading around $190.60. IBM is one of the 30 stocks that comprises the Dow Jones Industrial Average, and it's dragging the index lower. The Dow is now trading around 14,500 after hitting a high near 14,540 earlier this morning, and is down 0.2% on the day. Below is a chart of IBM stock. The tinted section in the middle shows the after-hours session yesterday. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
AP ImagesThe Boston University grad student¬†Lu Lingzi, who was killed in the Boston Marathon bombings, wanted to work on Wall Street, Bloomberg News reported.¬† According to Bloomberg, Lingzi was pursuing a career as an investment bank financial analyst.¬† She came to the U.S. from China to earn a degree in statistics from BU, the report said. She was expected to complete her degree in 2015. She graduated with a degree in economics from the Beijing Institute of Technology. She previously worked in banking and accounting jobs in Beijing, the report said. The 23-year-old student was killed on Monday by one of the explosions near the finish line. See our full coverage of the Boston Marathon suspect manhunt &gt;¬†
Christopher Furlong/Getty ImagesFitch just downgraded the United Kingdom's sovereign credit rating to AA+ from AAA. Below is the full text from the release: Fitch Ratings-London-19 April 2013: Fitch Ratings has downgraded the United Kingdom's Long-term foreign and local currency Issuer Default Ratings (IDR) to 'AA+' from 'AAA'. The Outlook is Stable. At the same time, the agency has affirmed the UK's Short-term foreign currency rating at 'F1+' and the Country Ceiling at 'AAA'. The rating actions follow the conclusion of the review of the UK's sovereign ratings initiated on 22 March and resolve the Rating Watch Negative. The previous Negative Outlook on the UK's sovereign ratings had been in place since 14 March 2012. KEY RATING DRIVERSThe downgrade of the UK's sovereign ratings primarily reflects a weaker economic and fiscal outlook and hence the upward revision to Fitch's medium-term projections for UK budget deficits and government debt. Despite the loss of its 'AAA' status, the UK's extremely strong credit profile is reflected in its 'AA+' rating and the Stable Outlook. - Fitch now forecasts that general government gross debt (GGGD) will peak at 101% of GDP in 2015-16 (equivalent to 86% of GDP for public sector net debt, PSND) and will only gradually decline from 2017-18. This compares with Fitch's previous projection for GGGD peaking at 97% and declining from 2016-17 and the 'AAA' median of around 50%. - Fitch previously commented that failure to stabilise debt below 100% of GDP and place it on a firm downward path towards 90% of GDP over the medium term would likely trigger a rating downgrade. Despite the UK's strong fiscal financing flexibility underpinned by its own currency with reserve currency status and the long average maturity of public debt, the fiscal space to absorb further adverse economic and financial shocks is no longer consistent with a 'AAA' rating. - Higher than previously projected budget deficits and debt primarily reflects the weak growth performance of the UK economy in recent years, partly due to headwinds of private and public sector deleveraging and the eurozone crisis. Fitch has revised down its forecast economic growth in 2013 and 2014 to 0.8% and 1.8%, respectively, from 1.5% and 2.0% at the time of the last review of the UK's sovereign ratings in September 2012. The UK economy is not expected to reach its 2007 level of real GDP until 2014, underscoring the weakness of the economic recovery. - Despite significant progress in reducing public sector net borrowing (PSNB from a peak of 11.2% of GDP (GBP159bn) in 2009-10, the budget deficit remains 7.4% of GDP (excluding the effect of the transfer of Royal Mail pensions) and is not expected to fall below 6% of GDP and GBP100bn until the end of the current parliament term. The slower pace of deficit reduction means that the next government will be required to implement substantial spending reductions (and/or tax increases) if public debt is to be stabilised and reduced over the medium term. The Stable Outlook on the UK's sovereign ratings reflects the following factors. - Under Fitch's baseline economic and fiscal scenario, which assumes a continued policy commitment to reducing the underlying budget deficit and medium-term annual growth potential of 2%-2.25%, government debt gradually falls as a share of national income in the latter half of the decade. - The long average maturity of public debt (15 years) - the longest of any high-grade sovereign -exclusively denominated in local currency and low interest service burden implies a higher level of debt tolerance than many high-grade peers. - The international reserve currency status of sterling and the ability and willingness of the Bank of England to intervene in the UK government debt market largely eliminates the risk of a self-fulfilling fiscal financing crisis. - The gradual improvement in the UK banking sector's capital and liquidity position has further reduced contingent liabilities arising from this sector. The UK's 'AA+' rating is underpinned by its high-income, diversified and flexible economy as well as a high degree of political and social stability. The monetary policy framework as well as sterling's international reserve currency status afford the UK a high degree of financial and economic policy flexibility. Strong civil and policy institutions and a high degree of transparency enhance the predictability of the business and economic policy environment that compares favourably with peers in the 'AA' category. Weak economic performance and growth prospects, relatively high levels of private and foreign as well as public debt, along with sizeable twin fiscal and current account deficits, are weaknesses relative to rating peers. RATING SENSITIVITIESThe Stable Outlook indicates a less than 50% chance of a change in the UK sovereign ratings over the next two years. The main factors that could lead to a negative rating action, individually or collectively, are:- Failure to stabilise the government debt to GDP ratio over the medium term.- Increased threat to macro-financial stability, for example arising from an intensification of the eurozone crisis or an erosion of confidence in the UK's policy commitment to price stability. The main factors that could lead to a positive rating action, individually or collectively, are:- Stronger economic recovery and rebalancing of the UK economy than currently forecast.- Government budget deficits and debt declining at a faster pace than currently projected so that GGGD is on a sustainable path towards 90% of GDP and below. KEY ASSUMPTIONSA key assumption underpinning Fitch's medium-term fiscal projections reflected in the 'AA+' rating and Stable Outlook is that the growth potential of the UK economy is around 2%-2.25% pa. This assumption is based on the UK's labour market and demographic outlook and expectation that labour productivity will revert to its long-run trend of around 2% pa. In the event that productivity and hence economic growth is permanently lower than its long-run historical average prior to the financial crisis, the fiscal outlook would be materially worse than currently assessed with adverse implications for the UK's sovereign credit profile and ratings. For the purposes of its economic and fiscal forecasts, Fitch assumes a current 'output gap' of 2.7% of potential GDP that gradually declines over the forecast horizon. However, there is considerable uncertainty over the extent and future evolution of productive spare capacity in the UK economy. According to Fitch's simulations, in a 'no output gap' scenario GGGD would remain above 100% of GDP until 2018 in the absence of further structural deficit-reduction measures. The strong institutional framework for control of public expenditure and effective tax administration alongside the broad-based political and public commitment to deficit reduction underpins Fitch's assumption that fiscal consolidation will be sustained beyond the term of the current parliament through a combination of spending and tax measures. 3.5pp of the 6.9pp total reduction in expenditure as a percentage of GDP for the 2009-10 to-2017-18 period fall outside the term of the current parliament. Fitch assumes that no contingent liabilities arising from the financial sector and other government interventions to ease constraints on the availability of bank credit to the private sector will have a material impact on the path of UK government debt over the projection horizon. Fitch's current global economic forecasts (published in the March 2013 edition of the Global Economic Outlook) are incorporated into its near-term economic forecast for the UK including the assumption that severe tail-risks to the global economy, including a break-up of the eurozone, do not materialise and oil prices remain broadly at current levels. Fitch will publish early next week an update of its medium-term economic and fiscal projections for the UK that will supplant those published by Fitch in September 2012 ('UK Public Finances Update', 28 September 2012). The ratings of related entities and transactions will be reviewed in light of today's sovereign rating action and any changes announced shortly. Contact:Primary AnalystGergely KissDirector+44 20 3530 1425Fitch Ratings Limited30 North ColonnadeLondon E14 5GN Secondary AnalystDavid RileyManaging Director+44 20 3530 1175 Committee ChairpersonEd ParkerManaging Director+44 20 3530 1176 Media Relations: Peter Fitzpatrick, London, Tel: +44 20 3530 1103, Email: peter.fitzpatrick@fitchratings.com; Hannah Huntly, London, Tel: +44 20 3530 1153, Email: hannah.huntly@fitchratings.com. Additional information is available at www.fitchratings.com. Applicable criteria, 'Sovereign Rating Methodology' dated August 2012, are available at www.fitchratings.com.Applicable Criteria and Related Research¬†Sovereign Rating MethodologyGlobal Economic Outlook - AmendedAdditional Disclosure¬†Solicitation StatusALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK:¬†HTTP://FITCHRATINGS.COM/UNDERSTANDINGCREDITRATINGS. IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEBSITE 'WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM'. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE 'CODE OF CONDUCT' SECTION OF THIS SITE. FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE.
Google FinanceIt's a very quiet day for market-specific news today. Earlier this morning, General Electric's lackluster earnings announcement sent the stock as well as the entire Dow Jones Industrial Average lower. However, the Dow just turned positive. "Market rallied after the uncle said, "This has nothing to do with Chechnya"," tweeted CNBC's Carl Quintanilla. "But also coincided with European mkt close" Quintanilla was referring to the uncle of the two suspects in the Boston Marathon bombing.
Flickr / LauraStyrmanDave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus alerts us to a "scalded dog formation" in the market's most shorted stocks today. Lutz says the 50 most shorted stocks on the Russell 2000 are up 1.2%, outpacing the broader index, and only four of those names are down today. As for where exactly the phrase "scalded dog formation" comes from... Have you ever poured hot water on a dog?
CNNRuslan Tsarni, the uncle of the two suspects in the Boston Marathon bombings, erupted in fury Friday over his nephews' alleged role in the Boston Marathon bombings, telling a local television station that the suspects "do not deserve to live on this earth." In a subsequent press conference with reporters, a visibly angry Tsarni lashed out at the two suspects. Tsarni told WBZ-TV in Boston earlier Friday that the two suspects ó Dzhokar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev ó do not deserve to live, and he apologized to their victims. ìHe deserved his. He absolutely deserved his,î Tsarni said of Tamerlan, who was killed early Friday morning. ìThey do not deserve to live on this earth.î In the press conference, Tsarni called both of the suspects "losers" and he urged Dzhokar to turn himself in. He said that any notion of Islam playing a part in the attacks is "fraud." "What I think was behind it: Being losers," he said. "I respect this country. I love this country," said Tsarni, who was visibly angry throughout the press conference. "This country gives chance to everybody else." Here is video of the press conference:
Matt Cadwallader, a videographer and multimedia producer at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government posted this eerie video last night of Boston police beginning their manhunt of Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.¬† The video shows hundreds of law enforcement vehicles lining Arsenal Street in Watertown, Mass., following Thursday night's shootout with the two bombing suspects. The first suspect, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed by Boston police during the shooting. The manhunt is still underway for his 19-year-old brother, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Watch the video below:¬†  (h/t NowThisNews)
To gauge the current state of the stock market, look no further than the economy.¬† As far as the market is concerned, everything else is random noise. Recent data releases make it quite clear that the economy lost momentum in March and is continuing into April as the overwhelming majority of reports come in below expectations.¬† We cite the following evidence: 1)¬†¬†¬† ¬†March payroll employment dropped to a disappointing 88,000. 2)¬†¬†¬† ¬†The ISM manufacturing index dropped to its lowest level since December. 3)¬†¬†¬† The ISM non-manufacturing index declined to its lowest level since September. 4)¬†¬†¬† Retail sales fell in March and the prior two months were revised down.¬† The weakness was widespread through various categories. 5)¬†¬†¬† The University of Michigan consumer confidence index declined to its lowest point since July. 6)¬†¬†¬† The NAHB housing market index dropped for the third consecutive month to its lowest level since October. 7)¬†¬†¬† While housing starts were up 7%, more than the entire gain was accounted for by multi-family units as single family starts were down for the second time in the last three months.¬† New building permits were similarly down the second time in three months. 8)¬†¬†¬† The NFIB small business index declined in March and is only two points above the lowest level of the past year and three points lower than a year earlier.¬† Moreover, the majority reported weaker sales over the last three months and expect a drop in sales over the next six months.¬† This does not bode well for new hiring or capital expenditures from an important sector of the economy that is often not well represented in other key indicators of the economy. 9)¬†¬†¬† The Empire State Index fell to 3.1 from 9.2 and 10.3 in the prior two months. 10) ¬†Although March industrial production increased 0.4%, it was almost all accounted for by a 5.3% rise in utility production while the manufacturing sector fell 0.1%. 11) ¬†The IMF cut its 2013 forecast for global growth to 3.3% from 3.5% and the Eurozone to -0.3% from +0.1%.¬† Eurozone GDP has declined for¬†five consecutive quarters and the first quarter will probably be the sixth.¬† The Eurozone periphery nations are already in recession and getting worse, and now France and Germany are slowing down as well.¬† This will be felt in the U.S. as well since American exports to the EU fell to a two-year low in February 12) ¬†China recently reported disappointing results for first quarter GDP at a time when their real estate sector is in the midst of an inflationary bubble. All of the above indicates that the economy is once again entering a soft spot as it did in the prior three years.¬† The big difference is that in 2010, 2011 and 2012 the soft spot more or less coincided with the end of QEs 1, 2 and 3.¬† In each instance QE was re-instated and the economy bounced back to its previously mediocre growth rate.¬† In the current instance, however, growth is slowing down even while QE is in full force.¬† In addition, unlike the prior slowdowns, the economy is facing the additional headwinds of the January tax increases and the sequester, which have not yet been felt in a major way.¬† In our view it would be extremely difficult for the Fed to provide any more support to the economy than it already has. ¬† Already, the economic slowdown is being reflected in the price of gold, which has virtually collapsed and in long-term government bond yields that have dropped sharply in recent weeks.¬† In fact, the prospect of deflation that we have constantly discussed in our comments is suddenly being widely discussed in the media. Most observers are taking the recent market weakness in stride as they say a correction was overdue anyway, and that they are actually looking forward to buying the dips.¬† We take the contrary view that the market is in the midst of making a major top as a result of an economy that will surprise on the downside, taking current optimistic earnings forecasts down with it.
Natick PoliceA woman believed to be the mother of Boston bombing suspects Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev was arrested last year for shoplifting at a Cambridge Lord &amp; Taylor department store, according to a police briefing in the Natick Patch. Here's the June 13, 2012 report from the Natick Police: 7:42 p.m.: Loss prevention from¬†Lord &amp; Taylor called to report they had detained a shoplifter. Zubeidat K. Tsarnaeva, 45, of 410 Norfolk St., Apt. 3, Cambridge, was arrested and charged with larceny over $250 (women's clothing valued at $1,624), and two counts of malicious/wanton damage/defacement to property. Tsarnaeva shared an address with the two brothers suspected in the Boston Marathon bombings. The first bombing suspect, Temerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was shot and killed by Boston police Thursday night. A manhunt is underway for the second suspect,¬†Dzhokhar A. Tsarnaev, 19.¬† The family is believed to be of Chechen origin.¬†An "a" is typically added to Russian female surnames.¬†
ShutterstockThe low point of summer weekends is almost always the commute out of the city.†But for Hamptons-goers, that trip will be a little less painful this summer.† The Long Island Rail Road has just announced a new express train from New York Penn Station to Westhampton, a non-stop ride that takes just 94 minutes. The train will leave Penn Station Fridays at 4:07, and make stops at Westhampton, Southampton, Bridgehampton, East Hampton, and Montauk. A return service will also be available Sunday afternoons. It's the first time the train, called Cannonball, will leave from New York City.†The one-way fare to the Hamptons is $19.75 off-peak, and $27.00 for peak trains. From the LIRR, here's the all-new 2013 schedule: Friday - Cannonball East - Penn Station Departure:†The Cannonball will depart from†Penn Station at 4:07 PM, and does†NOT†stop at Jamaica.†The Cannonball†runs non-stop express to Westhampton (94 minutes later) arriving at†5:41 PM, Southampton at†6:03 PM, Bridgehampton at†6:13 PM, East Hampton at†6:25 PM†and will complete its journey in Montauk, arriving at†6:48 PM. Sunday - Cannonball West Service:†On Sundays, the all-new†Cannonball (West)†will leave Montauk at 6:37 PM,†East Hampton at 7:01 PM, Bridgehampton at 7:10 PM, Southampton at 7:20 PM, Hampton Bays at 7:31 PM and Westhampton at 7:39 PM. The train will then run express to Jamaica, arriving at†9:09 PM†and complete its journey at Penn Station, arriving at†9:31 PM.†
AP Photo/Federal Bureau of InvestigationThe father of Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev tells ABC News that he will appeal to his son to "surrender peacefully." But the father also promised that "all hell will break loose" if Tsarnaev is killed by police. The father also said he talked to his sons earlier this week and that they talked about the bombing: "We talked about the bombing. I was worried about them," Anzor Tsarnaev said. He said his sons reassured him, saying, "Everything is good, Daddy. Everything is very good." It's not clear whether this conversation took place before the bombings or after. The father also said his sons are innocent: The elder Tsarnaev insisted that his sons were innocent, but said he would appeal to his son to "surrender peacefully." "Give up. Give up. You have a bright future ahead of you. Come home to Russia," the dad said. Earlier, the father spoke to the Associated Press by telephone from Russia. In that conversation, he described his younger son as "a true angel." SEE ALSO: Father Of Boston Bombing Suspect Calls Him A "True Angel" 
YouTube/SilverCoinNewsIt's not that the price is different, per se. When gold crashed on Monday, dragging market prices down to a low of $1321.50 an ounce from levels around $1560 only days before, holders of physical gold saw the value of their holdings decline as well. However, we've seen a lot of claims that somehow there's a difference between the market for physical gold (people buying gold bars or gold coins) and that for "paper" gold (which refers to gold futures traded on the COMEX or shares of GLD, the gold ETF). Jim Rickards, a prominent gold bull and author of the book Currency Wars, told Business Insider that the disconnect between the two markets evidenced by the crash on Monday is not one of price, but "in terms of behavior, in terms of people's responses to market developments." So, what does that mean exactly? Rickards uses a classic "weak hands, strong hands" analogy to compare physical gold buyers and paper gold buyers. According to Rickards, the "weak hands" in the gold market were the over-leveraged buyers of gold futures and ETFs that caused prices to plummet in the recent sell-off. "If you're an un-levered buyer of bullion ñ say, 10% of your investable assets ñ you kind of watched the headlines and watched the ticker [as gold crashed]†on Thursday, Friday, and Monday, but it didn't affect you," says Rickards. Below, Rickards expands on the analogy and explains where the hedge funds fit in: Gold ownership is now divided between strong hands and weak hands. The strong hands are Russia, China, some of the other central banks, and anybody else who is buying gold for cash in physical form, without leverage. The weak hands are retail jumping into GLD, at a top, using margin, futures players, and people who don't really understand gold. There are a lot of trend followers out there who started following gold on a trend basis, but didn't really understand anything about gold, or how it works, etc.† The hedge funds turn out to be weak hands, not strong hands. The reason is they've got redemptions. Hedge funds don't have permanent capital. They may have monthly redemptions, or quarterly redemptions, or one-year lockups, or whatever it is, but it's not permanent capital.† When they get the drawdowns, and they start getting redemption notices, guess what? They have to sell to get cash to meet the redemptions. And that feeds on the selling. So, there is a lot of dynamic that is not unique to gold, because it would be true of any over-leveraged situation, there are a lot of new players who don't understand gold, and then there were a couple of very specific events that started the unwinds. But it looks like it's found its level. The last weak guy puked, and now we'll go from here. In short, the basic idea is that while holders of physical gold were affected by the sell-off in that it lowered the value of their holdings, they weren't put in a position where they needed to immediately liquidate at the first sign of trouble.
With police ordering residents to stay in their homes, Boston is a ghost town right now. That is a story in itself. Many folks in the city seem to realize this. They're Tweeting out striking photos showing what a major American city under what some are calling a version of martial law. Here is a sampling: Harvard Square, empty [via @thecrimson @pourmecoffee]. twitpic.com/ckg83s The city is almost deserted... #Boston #lockdown #manhunt #ATVNyourview twitter.com/zachherbert/st‚Ä¶ View from my daughter's dorm window of the Boston Common. "Empty. Like a ghost town," she says. twitter.com/cloepoisson/st‚Ä¶ ¬† #Boston empty. mass ave bridge. twitter.com/cr3dit/status/‚Ä¶ #Boston empty. back bay. twitter.com/cr3dit/status/‚Ä¶ #Boston empty. kenmore-ish. twitter.com/cr3dit/status/‚Ä¶ Downtown Crossing 10:30 am twitter.com/WBURSteve/stat‚Ä¶ Streets in Cambridge and Somerville eerily empty. twitter.com/davabel/status‚Ä¶ Boston a ghost town. RT @nbcnews: Photo: City on lockdown; an empty Kenmore Square in Boston. (via Andrew Golden) twitter.com/NBCNews/status‚Ä¶ Inman Square, normally one of the busiest intersections in Boston area, basically a ghost town twitter.com/Dan_Rowinski/s‚Ä¶ PIC from Boston from cnn colleague RT @adamatcnn: Ghost town twitter.com/AdamATCNN/stat‚Ä¶ ¬† This is what rush hour looks like in #Boston. Empty-so eerie and quiet. #fox6wbrc twitpic.com/ckfh7r Streets are nearly empty in #downtown #Boston. twitter.com/mollyoehmichen‚Ä¶ Boston Common, totally deserted ‚Äî via @cj_stevenson twitter.com/CJ_Stevenson/s‚Ä¶ RT @stevenerlangerDowntown Boston Friday at 9 am. Virtually deserted twitpic.com/ckf4i6Retweeted by Julia La Roche The Boston Univ. campus is deserted as everyone is urged to stay indoors and city is shutdown. twitpic.com/ckfmvh
Police have entered into a full manhunt for¬†Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the living suspect of the Boston Marathon bombings. For most of Friday morning, the search became a door-to-door operation in the nearby suburb of Watertown, Mass.¬† Chris Lambert, a meteorologist at WHDH in Boston, tweeted this photo from outside of his sister-in-law's home: Twitter/@clamberton7 Here are some more photos from Reuters: REUTERS/Brian Snyder REUTERS/Brian Snyder REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi  REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi ¬† REUTERS/Brian Snyder ¬† REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi ¬† REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi
Copper futures are down more than 2.5 percent and are poised to see their largest decline in 16 months, Dow Jones' Francesca Freeman writes. The sell-off came after a report that Zambia, Africa's largest producer, resumed shipments after a two-week halt because of a railroad accident, she says. Here's the chart: Investing.com Other commodities were mixed. Gold and oil were trading slightly higher, while natural gas was down.¬†
ShutterstockLast week we learned that Skorpios, the famous private Greek island that once belonged to shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis, had sold to an anonymous Russian billionaire for $153 million. It's now been confirmed that the buyer was Ekaterina Rybolovleva, the 24-year-old daughter of Russian oligarch Dmitry Rybolovlev, a potash tycoon said to be worth $9.1 billion and the largest shareholder in the Bank of Cyprus. Does her name sound familiar? Ekaterina Rybolovleva made headlines in late 2011 when she bought former Citigroup CEO Sandy Weill's penthouse at 15 Central Park West for $88 million, one of the biggest residential real estate deals in New York City history. Presumably, her father bankrolled the purchase. A representative of the Rybolovlev family confirmed the Skorpios deal to Forbes, saying in a statement:†ìA†company belonging to a trust acting in the interest of Ekaterina Rybolovleva has completed the purchase of a group of companies formerly ultimately owned by Mrs Athina Onassis. Amongst the assets of this group of companies are the islands of Scorpios and Sparti." She will reportedly use it for leisure and as a long-term investment. Skorpios, which Onassis bought in 1962 for $15,000, was made famous as the location of his wedding to former First Lady Jackie Kennedy in 1968. The island†was sold†by†Athina Onassis Roussel, Onassis's granddaughter and only surviving heir.
From UMASS Dartmouth: Umass Dartmouth For more on the suspect being chased, see here &gt;
After the closing bell yesterday, the burrito maker reported huge Q1 earnings. Revenue jumped 13% to $726 million and earnings surged 24% to $2.45 per share. Comparable store sales climbed by 1.0% during the period. The stock is up around 6% early in the U.S. trading session.
via Twitter.com/buzzfeedThe MIT campus police officer who was¬†killed last night by the suspects behind the Boston Marathon bombing¬†has been identified as¬†Sean Collier, 26, of Somerville, Massachusetts. [via @BuzzFeed] He was reported shot at 10:48 p.m., according to MIT's student newspaper The Tech. He was pronounced dead at Massachusetts General Hospital. ¬† "The loss of Officer Collier is deeply painful to the entire MIT community," MIT President L. Rafael Reif said in a statement. "Our thoughts today are with his family, his friends, his colleagues on our police force and, by all accounts, the many other members of our community who knew him. This is a senseless and tragic loss." Here's the full statement from the university:¬† MIT has identified the police officer killed in the line of duty on Thursday evening as Patrol Officer Sean A. Collier, 26, of Somerville, Mass.Collier had served as a member of the MIT Police since Jan. 9, 2012, following service as a civilian employee with the Somerville Police Department. He was single and a native of Wilmington, Mass.‚ÄúSean was one of these guys who really looked at police work as a calling,‚Äù said MIT Police Chief John DiFava. ‚ÄúHe was born to be a police officer.‚ÄùCollier was shot Thursday evening following an altercation at the corner of Vassar Street and Main Street in Cambridge, roughly between Building 32 (Stata Center) and Building 76 (David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research) on the MIT campus. He was transported to Massachusetts General Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.The MIT Police, Cambridge Police Department and Massachusetts State Police are continuing their investigation of the circumstances surrounding Collier‚Äôs death.DiFava said Collier was highly involved with MIT‚Äôs student population.‚ÄúIn a very short period of time, it was remarkable how engaged he was with students, particularly graduate students,‚Äù DiFava said. He added that Collier had become active with the MIT Outing Club, joining students in skiing and hiking.‚ÄúThe loss of Officer Collier is deeply painful to the entire MIT community,‚Äù said MIT President L. Rafael Reif. ‚ÄúOur thoughts today are with his family, his friends, his colleagues on our police force and, by all accounts, the many other members of our community who knew him. This is a senseless and tragic loss.‚Äù‚ÄúThe MIT Police serve all of us at the Institute with great dignity, honor and dedication,‚Äù said Israel Ruiz, MIT‚Äôs executive vice president and treasure. ‚ÄúEveryone here ‚Äî those who knew Officer Collier, and those who did not ‚Äî are devastated by the events that transpired on our campus last night. We will never forget the seriousness with which he took his role protecting MIT and those of us who consider it home.‚Äù
WGRZ.comUpdate: Police released these two men after detaining them for five hours, the Niagra Falls Review reported. Original story: Police have stopped two people in Niagara Falls, N.Y. in a car with suspicious backpacks and a Massachusetts license plate, wgrz.com reports, citing a "high ranking source." Bomb techs were looking at four suspicious backpacks in the car in Niagara Falls, a source told wgrz. The FBI's joint-terrorism task force was assisting local police with the search. A source initially told the news station that the two men were Russian nationals, but police have told wgrz that actually isn't true. We reached out to the Niagara Falls police department. Everyone who could comment on the situation with the Russian nationals was "at the scene," a police representative said. There's currently a hunt in the Boston area for 19-year-old suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who's believed to have planted the Boston Marathon bomb along with his brother, 26-year-old brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who's now dead.
Wow! Just Wednesday, German Bundesbank President and ECB Governing Council Member Jens Weidmann was saying that an ECB interest rate cut would be appropriate if new economic data warranted such action on the part of the central bank. That, of course, made the euro go down. This morning, at a speech in Washington, Weidmann says interest rates are "currently appropriate," and not to "expect too much" from a rate cut, as central banks can't solve structural problems. Weidmann did say, however, that the ECB may reassess interest rates if the data change. Below is a chart of the euro, which jumped to a high of 1.3127 against the U.S. dollar on the Weidmann comments but is now walking back some of those gains. Earlier, the euro jumped on comments from German finance minister Wolfgang Sch√§uble that the ECB should reduce liquidity in the euro area, but subsequently erased all its gains before the Weidmann comments hit the tape. Thinkorswim
Gold made the headlines with a rapid plunge, some possible basing, and then another plunge. Let‚Äôs talk about gold for a minute. Central bankers prefer to have the public, the investor class, and the holders of institutional wealth believe in the credibility of their central banking skills and their ability to manage their respective currencies. But central bankers miss a critical point. When it comes to gold, the gold bugs argue that gold is money. Simply put, that is not exactly correct. Gold was money 150-200 years, and even centuries, ago. In the US, if you wanted to buy something, you could pay for it with a gold coin. Those days are long gone. I repeat, those days are long gone. But gold still maintains one important characteristic out of the three that we attribute to a functional currency. So let us get to this question of whether or not gold is money. To be money, you have to have the ability to exchange easily in transactions. When you go to the store and pay for something in dollars, those dollars function as money. You can pay in paper currency, write a check, transfer it electronically, or pre-purchase the electronic entry on a piece of plastic that is carried and use it for payment. Money is a way in which payments are conducted. You cannot easily buy something with a bag or bar of gold, not even with a gold coin. There are not many people in the world who will take gold for payment. The payment mechanism of money is conducted in the currencies managed by the central banks, regardless of whether the currency is the dollar, pound, yen, euro, franc, krona, dinar, yuan, peso, or something else. The second characteristic of money is to act as a unit of account, a method of measurement. Open up the income statement of your favorite company. It shows how much revenue, expenses, profits, assets, and liabilities they have in dollars as a unit of account or way of measurement. The same is true all over the world. We use these measurement tools constantly, so money has to provide easy, secure ways of measurement. The problem with money substitutes that fail these two initial tests is that they become subject to volatilities that disrupt their use. Gold is such an item. Bitcoin is another one. Pay for something with bitcoin and how do you know how much you are paying in comparison to the rest of your daily transactions? The third characteristic of money is that it is a ‚Äústore of value.‚Äù It supplies an answer to the question, ‚ÄúWhere can I safely place my accumulation of wealth, the result of my work effort, the gathering of my savings, ‚Äìand have it hold its value?‚Äù Store of value is very important to gold. Historically, gold, as well as silver and other precious items like diamonds to a lesser extent, has been seen as a place to store value. Gold worked in this regard: it was fungible, it was measurable by weight, and it was the same worldwide; and so it remained for many centuries the traditional place to store value. In the beginning, central banks traded gold and used it as a reserve because it was such a successful store of value. The central banks still retain their attachment to gold, even when they do not want to admit it. Now let us get to the wild volatilities of the gold market in the last few days and weeks. In Europe we have a crisis. The crisis involves Cyprus and its ability to pay. Cyprus is broke. It owes more than it has and more than it can earn. And it is beset by a banking collapse in the midst of all this. Cyprus uses the euro for money like the all other Eurozone members. With the euro, the monetary characteristics needed for transactions and pricing still apply, and so Cyprus now has to lock up part of its money because capital controls have been imposed. Furthermore, Cypriots have been restricted in their ability to take their euros and convert them to another currency such as dollars, yen, or pounds. Lastly, Cyprus has some gold, as do most other countries around the world. The Eurozone colleagues of Cyprus are proposing that Cyprus sell some of its gold. They are very public about it. And the government of Cyprus may have to engage in some negotiation over that gold due to the pressure from its European colleagues. If it does not continue to receive Eurozone assistance, it will not be able to obtain money and make the payments it owes. The Central Bank of Cyprus does not want to sell the gold. It knows it will not get it back. It also knows that if it holds the gold, it will maintain this mystical store of value that is associated with gold. But if it sells the gold, it will not have that store of value. The central bank resists the sale of gold for two reasons: (1) It has a historical basis on which to maintain the reserve of gold, and (2) It knows that it cannot replace its position if it sells. In pressing Cyprus to sell, Europeans have announced to the world that there may be a large seller of gold. World traders in gold and other commodities will quickly jump on that trade. They know that if Cyprus breaks loose with the sale of its gold, countries like Greece, Portugal, and Slovenia may be next. They cannot see buying gold, thereby raising gold‚Äôs US-dollar-denominated price, in such a circumstance; but they can see selling it short, or otherwise trading it to the downside. Result: gold plummets and there is massive selling. That terrifies the ETF holders and the retail buyers of gold. They pile on the trade, and gold gaps down to an unexpectedly low price. What happens next? First, the European drama around gold has to run its course. That is going to take a while. Second, the terrified retail investors who panicked and sold have to become exhausted sellers. That is happening very quickly, though it is not over. The notion that gold can no longer be trusted as a store of value was clubbed into investors without any preparation. They saw the consistently upward movement of gold prices as confirmation that gold would continue to increase in value. They failed to see that volatilities could be very high in a market that is relatively thin worldwide. Now, disillusioned, they are reacting out of panic. What happens after the retail investors are exhausted and the curtain is drawn on the European gold drama? We believe there will emerge a new set of buyers of gold. They will be emerging-market institutions including central banks whose gold holdings are much lower as a proportion of total reserves than the Europeans have maintained. There will also be some larger purchasers of gold. Here we are going to propose that the Japanese view gold as a new addition to their reserves. Japan has already said it is going to up its reserves. It has already said that it‚Äôs going to implement highly stimulative monetary policies. It has already launched that program in a very substantial way. Japan is printing yen and buying assets. Simply put, that raises the price of all assets. Now Japan has a problem. It has to negotiate its policy change in a world in which colleagues in other major countries do not like this rapid weakening of the yen against their own currencies. And they do not want the Japanese to directly buy sovereign debt in other countries by converting newly printed yen into another currency and using that currency to buy the government debt of the country in which they have made the conversion. But there is another option for Japan. Japan can print yen and buy gold. If it buys metal instead of a bond issued by a sovereign country, it will raise the price of the metal. It will exchange yen for currencies and diversify its exposure among all of the currencies. It will not be able to be accused of direct interference with the bond markets of other sovereign countries. Nor will Japan be able to be accused of interfering with the Federal Reserve‚Äôs present policy of buying US dollar-denominated, government-backed debt, or with the policies of the Eurozone‚Äôs central banks or those of the Bank of England. Furthermore, with central banks and other institutions in Germany, France, the US, India, Russia, and elsewhere continuing to buy gold, Japan is in a position to ask, ‚ÄúWhy can‚Äôt we buy gold, too?‚Äù Other emerging-market countries also have gold-buying programs. In our view, we are now likely to see more of them. Our conclusion about gold is this. It is not money in the traditional sense of a currency in which transactions can be made. It does not facilitate payments. It is not a unit of account. We do not print financial statements in terms of ounces or tons of gold. Instead, we use currencies to measure our financial status. Gold does have a historical store of value characteristic. It is held by central banks and institutions as a reserve. They do not want to sell it. On the contrary, many of them want to buy and accumulate it. Therefore, gold‚Äôs characteristic role with regard to sovereign reserves is still intact, even amid the fascinating evolution of central banking and institutional finance we witness today. Our view about gold as an investment is slightly different from that of a trader. Gold is a long-term investment. We think it should constitute a small portion of a portfolio and be maintained on a continuing basis. It should be a relatively passive investment. Think of it as a type of insurance policy. So we would recommend gold acquisition, for those who are inclined to pursue it, on a very modest level, utilizing a dollar-cost averaging method. Buy a little gold and put it away. Forget the price. Come back again, buy a little more, add to your hoard, and forget the price. Look at gold as an insurance policy that you hope you never need to use. We do believe that abandoning gold completely and disparaging it as a barbarous relic is too extreme.
The suspects who allegedly carried out the Boston Marathon bombings ‚Äî Tamerlan and Dzhokar Tsarnaev ‚Äî are from a war-torn and turbulent region of Russia known as Chechnya, according to reports.¬† Here's where Chechnya is on a map. Google Maps Following the First Chechen War from 1994 to 1996, Chechnya gained independence from Russia. However, the Second Chechen war from 1999 to 2000 brought Chechnya back under Russian rule, and a nine-year insurgency period followed. It's not clear how much time the brothers spent in Russia.¬† It's estimated the brothers came to the U.S. in 2002 or 2003.¬† Here's a closer look at the location: Google Maps
NBCA startling tweet from the Associated Press just now: BREAKING: Father of Boston bombing suspect says son is accomplished medical student and 'a true angel'. The AP called the brothers' father in Russia. Here are more details from AP's story: Anzor Tsarnaev spoke with The Associated Press by telephone from the Russian city of Makhachkala on Friday after police said one of his sons, 26-year-old Tamerlan, had been killed in a shootout and the other, Dzhokhar, was being intensely pursued. "My son is a true angel," the elder Tsarnaev said. "Dzhokhar is a second-year medical student in the U.S. He is such an intelligent boy. We expected him to come on holidays here." The suspects' uncle, interviewed by CNN, was considerably less charitable. He said the suspects "do not deserve to live on this earth." The Today Show has also interviewed high-school classmates of the younger brother, Dzhokhar, who say he was well-liked, friendly, and "sweet"--not the disgruntled loner type that is commonly associated with massacres like this. Another high-school classmate said she was "shocked" to learn that he was one of the suspects. A host of a Public Radio International radio show, Robin Young, tweeted the following photograph of her nephew with Dzhokhar at a high-school prom. My beloved nephew on right, djohar tsarnaev on left, happy cambridge Rindge and Latin grads.heartbreaking twitter.com/hereandnowrobiÖ At this writing, the bombing suspect is currently believed to be holed up in a house in Watertown with police outside. His older brother, Tamerlan, 26, is dead.Here's the latest &gt;
"The growth ‚Äúsoft patch‚Äù should be relatively shallow and over by 2H13," write the economists at Morgan Stanley.¬† "This consensus view is predicated on the expected weakness in US data because of fiscal tightening, with the negative impact wearing off by 2H. Here's a slide from Chief U.S. Economist Vincent Reinhart in Morgan Stanley's latest Global Debates Playbook: Morgan Stanley
From the FBI, a new photo of Suspect #2 FBI
BundestagIn an interview with German business news weekly Wirtschaftswoche, German finance minister Wolfgang Sch√§uble said the ECB should reduce liquidity in the euro area because there is "too much money" in the market. The euro spiked on the news against the U.S. dollar, but the comments also seem to have taken S&amp;P 500 futures lower a bit as well. The euro hit a high of 1.3116 following the news from levels around 1.3085 before the Sch√§uble comments hit the tape. Now, it's trading around 1.3091. S&amp;P 500 futures fell from 1544 to 1541 and are currently trading at 1541.5, up 0.5% on the day. Gold has fallen about $7 an ounce as well since then and is currently trading around $1403, up 0.75% from yesterday. Oil is rolling over as well, currently trading at $88.15, up 0.5%.
Adam Kitzenberg, founder of startup GetOnHand, had the terrifying distinction of having this morning's violent pursuit of the Boston bombers play out outside his window. Undaunted, he live-Tweeted almost the entire saga.¬† Here are some of his most frightening Tweets:¬† Evacuated from our apartment by military with assault weapons around 6 We're all safe #terrifying #mitshooting #mit twitter.com/AKitz/status/3‚Ä¶ Swat is out on laurel st.#mitshooting #boston #mit twitter.com/AKitz/status/3‚Ä¶ The bomb squad has gone through the backpacks #mitshooting #mit #boston twitter.com/AKitz/status/3‚Ä¶ Bomb squad robot and body suit are inspecting the vehicle #mitshooting #mit #boston twitter.com/AKitz/status/3‚Ä¶ Bullet hole through our wall and the chair #mitshooting #mit #boston twitter.com/AKitz/status/3‚Ä¶ Ongoing search on laurel st #mitshooting #mit #boston twitter.com/AKitz/status/3‚Ä¶ Backpacks left on laurel st. Bomb squad is out #mit #mitshooting #boston twitter.com/AKitz/status/3‚Ä¶ Dark video of black Benz in shoot out with Watertown on laurel st PD #mitshooting #boston #mityfrog.us/1fu2xpnryybxwj‚Ä¶
Flickr/_skynetMcDonald's Q1 earnings are out. EPS came in at $1.26, which is right in line with expectations. Global comparable store sales fell by 1.0%, which was a bit better than the 1.1% decline expected. The stock is down ahead of the U.S. trading session. "While the Company's results for the quarter reflected difficult prior year comparisons and the ongoing impact of global economic headwinds, we continue our efforts to build market share and deliver sustained profitable growth for all stakeholders," said CEO Don Thompson. Here's a break down of comps: "As we move forward, top-line comparisons will begin to ease while the challenging global environment and bottom-line pressures are expected to persist," he added. "For the month of April, global comparable sales are expected to be slightly negative."
FBIThe New York Times and others¬†have identified the dead suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings as¬†26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the brother of¬†Dzhokar Tsarnaev. According to NBC's Pete Williams, who reported on air on the "Today" show, Dzhokar ran over his brother to get away from police.¬† Williams also reported that Tamerlan Tsarnaev was born in Russia. He¬†became a legal U.S. permanent resident in 2007. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was arrested for domestic assault and battery in 2009 after allegedly assaulting his girlfriend, according to police records.¬†A YouTube account¬†linked with his¬†Google Plus profile¬†is focused on videos about Islam. Here is a photo gallery of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, training at¬†Wai Kru Mixed Martial Arts in Allston, Mass. The gallery is entitled, "Will Box For Passport," and it was produced¬†while Tamerlan was training to compete in the National Golden Gloves competition in Salt Lake City. Some of the captions provide a glimpse into his persona: A photo from the gallery: Johannes Hirn
The U.S. housing recovery is one of the more consistently bullish economic stories in the world. But it's not just about people buying homes. The Census Bureau just put together this infographic of what people spend on when they fix up their homes:  [Source: U.S. Census Bureau]
The FBI is circulating †this "Wanted" poster†for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the marathon bombing suspect believed at large: FBI
Darren McCollester/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know: Wednesday earnings recap: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
AP Photo/Federal Bureau of InvestigationThis photo released Friday, April 19, 2013 by the Federal Bureau of Investigation shows a suspect that officials identified as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.The surviving bombing suspect has been named as Dzhokhar A. Tsarnaev, 19, of Cambridge, Mass., AP reported. Dzhokhar is the younger brother of 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who was shot and killed in a gun battle with Boston police early Friday morning that also ended in the death of an MIT police officer. An FBI official told the Los Angeles Times that Dzhokhar may have been wounded in the confrontation before escaping. The 19-year-old is being referred to by authorities as "Suspect 2" and is identified in FBI-released surveillance footage as the man wearing a white hat at the marathon. The brothers were "ethnic Chechens with ties to the Russian region," AP reports. Dzhokhar lived in the Russian city of Makhachkala for a brief time before moving to the United States, according to the AP. Another report from CNN says that the Tsarnaev family lived in Kazakhstan before coming to the U.S., possibly in the early 2000s. Dzhokhar was a registered student at the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, the university confirmed. The campus closed down and the dorm where Dzhokhar lived was evacuated on Friday, SouthCoastToday.com reports. A biology student at UMass Dartmouth told the paper that Tsarnaev was "quiet," although she did not know him well. The father of the Tsarnaev brothers spoke to the Associated Press by telephone on Friday from Makhachkala. "My son is a true angel," Anzor Tsarnaev told the the AP. He said Dzhokhar was a medical student in the United States and described him as an "intelligent boy." Dzhokhar was a wrestler at the Cambridge Rindge and Latin School in Cambridge, Mass, USA Today's Natalie DiBlasio reports. He was also honored as student athlete of the month. A high school classmate told USA Today that Dzhokhar was a "funny, sweet, goofy kid." According to a Cambridge government website, a high school senior named Dzhokhar Tsarnaev won a $2,500 scholarship from the city in 2011 to pursue higher education. An aquatic coordinator at Harvard University told CNN that Dzhokhar was hired as a lifeguard for the university's pool about two and a half years ago. According to Russian Facebook VKontakte, a page that bears the same name as the surviving suspect lists "career and money" as the account holder's personal priorities, and "Islam" as the member's religion. The page says an individual named Dzhokhar was born on July 22 and that he speaks English, Russian, and the Chechen language ‚ÄúNokhchiin Mott.‚Äù Here are some translations from that page: Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's groups on Facebook: CHECHN's Everything about Chechnya and M&amp;Ms Under "Personal priority" Dzhokhar Tsarnaev lists "Career and money" 5 "noteworthy pages" on Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's Facebook: My religion is Islam among them and several humor pages. Yearbook pic of Boston bombing suspect, given to me by fmr classmate. "He was quiet". twitter.com/Brynn4NY/statu‚Ä¶ Keep following this post for more biographical information.
From Reuters: A law enforcement vehicle carries a bomb disposal device through Watertown during a search for the two men suspected of setting off two explosions during the Boston Marathon in Watertown, Massachusetts, April 19, 2013. Massachusetts State Police warned people in the Boston suburb of Watertown not to open their doors and said they would conduct a door-to-door, street-by-street search due to what it called a fluid situation. REUTERS/Lucas Jackson
FBIUPDATE: The "White hat" suspect has been named as 19-year-old Chechyan†Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Citing official sources, NBC News has reported that they are from "overseas" and may have been in the U.S. for more than a year. NBC also reports that they may have had military training. As for where they're from NBC's Pete Williams reports that they may be from Turkey or are Chechen refugees who came through Turkey. AP is now corroborating that. BREAKING: AP sources: Boston bomb suspects from Russia region near Chechnya, lived in US at least 1 year. -SS NBC's sources have specifically denied this. And based on what we know right now, it seems highly unlikely that Tripathi is involved. The theory that Tripathi might have been involved in the bombing first surfaced on social media a couple of days ago. This theory gained steam last night when people reported hearing his name and another name on a Boston police scanner. Most online references to the name on the scanner appear to tie back to this tweet from a Twitter user describing himself as cameraman at Eyewitness News in Hartford. Many people have also circulated photos that showed some resemblance in some photos between Tripathi and the Boston bombing suspect 2.† There is much less of a resemblance in the latest photo released by the FBI (excerpt above). And no one has been able to point us to an exact transcription of what was reportedly said on the Boston police scanner last night, or provided any context in which the names might have been mentioned. Buzzfeed's Andrew Kaczynski has more &gt;
REUTER / Truth LeemAll of the world's focus is on the events in Boston. As for markets, we're seeing big rallies everywhere, and a weakening yen. Via Nomura, here's a quick summary of today's stories. Global equities were stronger with the Hang Seng leading in Asia on strong business sentiment data, closing 2.3% higher, European equities opening 0.3-0.9% in the green and US equity futures retracing yesterdayís losses. Core bonds are generally weaker, with the 10yr Gilt, Treasury and Bund yields up 2-3bp, while the periphery was moderately stronger, with Spanish and Italian yields down 1-5bp across the curve. In FX, NZD led in the majors, while JPY trailed, down 1.1-1.8% across the board. In an otherwise light day, the focus remains on Italy today as the second day of the presidential elections begins, with the third and likely fourth rounds of votes ahead. Following yesterdayís failed votes, our economists note that PD leader Bersani has indicated that his bloc will seek to elect either Romano Prodi or Massimo DíAlema, with the centre-right, which continues to support Franco Mariniís candidacy, appearing willing to consider the latter, but not the former. Our economist add that a winner is unlikely to emerge in the third round, with results due early this afternoon. A fourth round victory, which requires only a simple majority of support, is possible, but our economists stress that uncertainty remains high (see NEMO, 18 April 2013)MBTA
The city of Boston is on partial lockdown as a hunt is one for one of the Marathon bombinb suspects, who is considered to be armed and extremely dangerous. As such, mass transit has been shutdown and people at Bus/Train stations are being told to go home. All MBTA service has been suspended until further notice Amtrak
Pretty amazing Bitcoin swings continue. A few days ago Bitcoin was around $50. Then yesterday got to $100. Today: $132. http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/
.Ruby Tuesday. / FlickrThe big news right now is the drama happening in Boston, where one of the Marathon suspects is reportedly dead. In the meantime, markets are surging. European stocks are up over 1%, and US futures are up on the tune of 0.5%. This caps off a very volatile week which has seen multiple days up or down over 100 points.
AP Boston authorities say they have shot and killed "Suspect 1" in the Boston Marathon bombing while "Suspect 2" is on the run after a series of violent events in Watertown, Mass. Now, according to MSNBC's Chuck Todd, police believe they know where "Suspect 2" "is holed up." Live feeds show police outside a house in Watertown, with SWAT teams telling someone inside a house to come out. Police clearly have their guns drawn, but there are reports that the house may be "booby-trapped," according to NBC News. Journalists are being repeatedly ordered to get back. A national security official has confirmed to Reuters the name of the "Suspect 2" is Dzhokhar A. Tsarnaev, 19, of Cambridge, Mass., and "Suspect 1" is his 26-year-old brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev. Police now believe that more people may be involved, according to NBC's Pete Williams. He said this afternoon that the city's lockdown status may be the result of police believing that the†"marathon bombing is the work of more than just two people." But police said later that the focus is solely on†Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. NBC reported Friday afternoon that police have recovered seven IEDs in their search: MORE: 7 IEDs recovered in the searches so far, some in Watertown &amp; some at the house in Cambridge, police officials say UMASS Dartmouth has confirmed that one suspect was a student. The campus is now on lockdown. SWAT teams were going house to house in a†20-block area†of Watertown. All morning the†Massachusetts State Police Bomb†Squad has been collecting and disposing of several explosive devices presumably placed by the suspects. CNBC is also reporting that two people are in custody at a house on Norfolk St. Watertown. It is not clear at present who these two people are. At a press conference this morning, Gov.†Deval Patrick said that the entire area of Boston was on lockdown, though in areas this appears to have been eased. Police are telling residents to stay inside and businesses not to open until further notice. Patrick reiterated that this afternoon, telling residents to lock their doors. Between 60-70% of Cambridge homes have been swept. State police said there will be a controlled explosion in Cambridge, Mass., this afternoon, out of an abundance of caution. Classes are cancelled at all area colleges and public schools. All Massachusetts Bay Transpiration Authority (MBTA) service has been†suspended. Vehicle traffic in and out of Watertown has been suspended. Taxi service was also suspended for a time. Police are calling for armored vehicles to a specific intersection. This while busloads of residents being evacuated nearby. ìWe believe this to be a terrorist,"†Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis said. "We believe this to be a man who has come here to kill people.†We need to get him in custody.î The dramatic turn of events began†Thursday night with a robbery at a convenience store ó reports that state police have now denied ó where "Suspect 2" was ID'd by police. That†was followed by a fatal†shooting of an MIT police officer at about 10:30 p.m. in Cambridge, Mass. The MIT officer has been named by the Boston Globe as Sean Collier, 26, of Somerville. Police say the suspects then committed an†armed carjacking in Cambridge. When police pursued them into neighboring Watertown, the suspects threw†explosive devices out of the stolen car.† The suspects then began shooting. Police returned fire and eventually killed "Suspect 1" (who reportedly had a bomb strapped to his chest). An MBTA police officer, later named as 33-year-old Richard H.†Donohue Jr, was†seriously injured†in the exchange. The Boston Globe reports that their sources say "an explosive trigger was found" on Suspect 1's body. "Suspect 2," who is considered "armed and dangerous,"†then drove away and abandoned the car. He's been at large ever since. There has been speculation on the Boston PD scanner that he may be wearing a suicide vest. Here's a graphic organizing the series of violent events on Thursday night and Friday morning: Now This News And here's a map of the key events: Twitter This post is being updated live ...
On Friday morning, the FBI released additional photos†from the Boston bombings, including the close-up one below of Suspect 1: FBI Below is a photo of both suspects together: FBI
