It's going to be a long time before the Fed "tightens" monetary policy in any conventional sense. But for the first time in a long time, people are really talking about the Fed "exiting" ultra-easy monetary policy in a serious way. In her latest edition of Top Client Questions, SocGen's Michala Marcusen reveals that the #1 issue atop investor minds concerns the Fed removing the so-called "punch bowl": WHEN WILL THE FED END QE? The FOMC has kept guidance on asset purchases deliberately vague but termination is tied to a significant improvement on the employment outlook. FOMC minutes last week showed a wide range of views on when conditions for ending asset purchases might be met; (1) "a few" viewed end 2013, (2) "a few" gave no timeframe but noted the need for Çconsiderable<U+201B> accommodation, (3) "several" said well before end 2013 and (4) one (Lacker) was against any additional purchases. With the Fed quite evenly split on the asset purchase timeframe, the final agreement on the automatic spending cuts (due to be decided by end-February) will be an important determinant. Our new growth forecast for 2013 of 2.4% assumes that half the spending cuts ($55bn) will be implemented. This, in turn, should allow the Fed to bring about an additional $1.1tn of additional QE over the coming year. Risks that QE could end earlier, however, have increased. The end of this week will see the Fedís Bullard, George, Kocherlakota and Plosser speak on the US economy. MARKET ISSUES: QE demand, stall-speed growth and low inflation acted as a triple-anchor on Treasury yields in 2012. Our expectation is for yields to now track gradually higher as sustainable recovery takes root in the US, but with still low inflation and high unemployment promising additional QE. The balance of risk, however, is clearly shifting to the upside for Treasury yields and the US dollar. This concern echoes what Citi FX analyst Steven Englander talked about in a note this week, that there are concerns about a "1994"-style move, whereby the Fed tightened before people expected, and bonds get pulverized. The long-end of the yield curve (yields on 10 to 30 year bonds) has been moving sharply higher lately, and as Marcusen notes above, that should be dollar bullish.
Bill McBride, Calculated RiskOne of the most critical components of the economy is housing, and there's nobody who has a better command of the housing economy than Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. As such, his latest post on the outlook for residential investment in 2013 is a must-read. Here's the most eye-popping part of his assessment: Housing starts are on pace to increase about 25% in 2012. And even after the sharp increase last year, the approximately 770 thousand housing starts in 2012 will still be the 4th lowest on an annual basis since the Census Bureau started tracking starts in 1959 (the three lowest years were 2009 through 2011).Here is a table showing housing starts over the last few years. No one should expect an increase to 2005 levels, however demographics and household formation suggest starts will return to close to the 1.5 million per year average from 1959 through 2000. That means starts will come close to doubling over the next few years from the 2012 level.  As for his specific 2013 forecast, he says: I expect growth for new home sales and housing starts in the 20% to 25% range in 2013 compared to 2012. That would still make 2013 the sixth weakest year on record for housing starts (behind 2008 through 2012), and the seventh or eight weakest for new home sales. So I expect further growth in 2014 too. This is one of the most bullish things that can be said for the US economy. Housing is still so beat down, and has come along to slowly in terms of recovery, this represents a major tailwind for some time to come. Read his full post here &gt;
Metro Centric via flickr Creative CommonsInteresting banking news development over the weekend... The Basel Committee (which sets global requirements for liquidity and capital ratios for banks) has announced an unexpected easing of rules. FT's Brooke Masters has the story, which involves looser requirements on bank liquidity ...the final rule approved by the supervisors of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is significantly more flexible than the draft version put forward more than two years ago. Banks will be able to count a much wider variety of liquid assets towards their buffers, including some equities and high-quality mortgage-backed securities. ... ‚ÄúThis is quite a lot more favourable to the industry than I and the market were expecting. The changes to the asset definitions and the outflow calculations in particular look like a fairly massive softening of approach,‚Äù said Daniel Davies, banking analyst for Exane BNP. In a note out this evening, SocGen's Sebastien Galy sees this as a big win for Europe, where the credit system remains in a state of disrepair: Crucially for the Eurozone, the Basel committee watered down the requirement for its liquidity requirement. European banks used to hold loans on their balance sheets, rather than securitize them. A rapid change to this practice was already constraining credits in the Eurozone. It is good news for sentiment and means the financial system will prove a stronger motor of transmission for European monetary policy. It tells us also that European authorities, namely the ECB and its national representatives are doing whatever they can to help credit flow through the system and matters more than any ECB rate cut. From a monetary model perspective, it is EUR negative (money will grow faster), from a sentiment perspective it is presumably positive and may have the opposite effect short-term on EURUSD. We'll see if markets react tomorrow, but judging from the tone of various analysts, it would not be a surprising to see this supporting risk tomorrow, at least in Europe.
Wikimedia CommonsThe yen is weakening again, as the dollar rises to 88.31 against it. Meanwhile, everyone is waiting for January 22. Adam Crisafulli &amp; Co. from JPMorgan explain: Japan ‚Äì Jan 22 is coming up quickly ‚Äì the Nikkei only traded one day this week but it managed to make up for lost time (the NKY surged 2.82% Fri).¬† Nothing incremental really occurred in Japan but the same macro narrative continues to propel stocks higher (new PM, new and more aggressive BOJ, etc) although US investors need to be careful to adjust the Nikkei headline % change for FX (i.e. the slumping yen is helping to account for a lot of the Nikkei outperformance).¬† Note that a big catalyst is coming up for Japan in the Jan 22 BOJ decision where a new inflation target (probably ~2%) is expected to be adopted.¬† The pressure to have the Bank of Japan adopt a more aggressive inflation stance is the big economic story in Japan, and one of the biggest in the world. That first comes to a head in just a couple weeks.
AP ImagesBonds have been in a monster bull market for decades. This has plenty of people believing that interest rates have nowhere to go but up. However, we have yet to see a sustained upward move in interest rates, which would signal the end of the bond bull market. Eric King of King World News spoke with UBS's Art Cashin to see when he thought the bull market would end: Eric King:¬† ‚ÄúWith the Fed increasing QE, and all of this money printing around the world, Art, what type of effects will we see in 2013?‚Äù Cashin:¬† ‚ÄúWell, there are a couple of things to look at.¬† For example, we are beginning to see rates move up.¬† Some of that was based on the FOMC minutes.¬† The thing that I will watch for is mortgage applications.¬† If the public begins to believe that the trend in rates has turned, that rates are heading higher, I believe you may begin to see a stampede of people trying to lock up those low mortgage rates.¬† That will be a signal to me that the public is coming to believe that the great bond bull market is probably ending.¬† It will mean money coming out of bond funds.¬† So one of the key things I will be monitoring very carefully over the next month or two, is there new or explosive growth in mortgage applications? Perhaps this is more good news than bad as rising borrowing costs would be at least partially offset by the economic activity triggered in the housing market. Read more at KingWorldNews.com.
There‚Äôs this joke going around the mainstream media, including the lying liberal media ( as opposed to the lying rabid right wing conservative business media) ¬†that banks aren‚Äôt lending. Ha ha. Pretty funny. It‚Äôs total bullshit. Since mid 2011, banks have been lending aggressively. US commercial banks have grown their loan portfolios by $600 billion or 9.2% since mid 2011. Wall Street Examiner That doesn‚Äôt count the $356 billion in Agency MBS they‚Äôve added to their portfolios since mid 2009. ¬†Wall Street Examiner The banks are not only lending aggressively, they are supplementing the Fed in enabling the creation of mortgages via Fannie and Freddie. These are not markets or an economy that needs any additional Fed stimulus. If anything, they will overheat faster than anyone expects. ¬† Follow my comments on the markets and economy in real time @Lee_Adler¬†on Twitter!
Meraki was at "a $100M run rate" when Cisco paid a whopping $1.2 billion to acquire it last month, confirms the exec that lead the deal. That's a pretty hefty valuation and it prompted someone to post a question on Quora asking why Cisco paid so much. (Meraki offers a cloud service to help businesses manage their Wi-Fi networks.) The guy that signed the check, Robert Soderbery, stepped up to answer. Soderbery is senior vice president of Enterprise Networking Group at Cisco. He gave three reasons: Here's how he explained it on Quora. Let me share my perspective on this question.¬† (Full disclosure:¬† I run the enterprise¬† networking business at Cisco, and signed the check for Meraki). ... So, why did Cisco pay $1.2B for Meraki? That is the easiest part of the question to answer. 1. The market for networking technology in small and medium sized enterprises is nearly $5B. Meraki brings a compelling offer, including wireless, switching, routing, security, along with services such as mobile device management and WAN acceleration. They are at a $100M run rate and essentially doubling year over year. We are convinced their technology provides significant advantages for customers in this segment. And they had demonstrated a viable business model for rapidly scaling the business. 2. Meraki (now the Cloud Networking Group at Cisco) has spent six years thinking about how to build cloud managed networks. While the Meraki offer is focused on the mid-market, it is easy to see ways to leverage Meraki technology more broadly within Cisco. So we believe Meraki technology can impact not just the $5B mid-market, but the $20B+ large enterprise market. 3. The Meraki founders have built a great company, and a great team. We believe they will add new talent and capabilities to Cisco in both development and go-to-market. They are staying in San Francisco, will maintain the Meraki culture, and form a new hub for cloud based software development. In fact we have signed a new lease on a large space in Mission Bay, so we can accelerate investment and hiring. Now that the acquisition is done (we closed December 20th), the Meraki founders ‚Äì Sanjit Biswas, John Bickett and Hans Robertson ‚Äì are signing up for their next challenge: building a $1B cloud networking business for Cisco. ¬† Don't miss: A Former Autonomy Salesperson Says This Is How The Creative Accounting Was Done
Flickr/Gage SkidmoreRepublican Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell laid the groundwork for a fight over raising the country's debt ceiling on Sunday. But he would not say whether he would accept a government default if President Barack Obama does not negotiate over the debt ceiling, as he has promised. On ABC's "This Week with George Stephanopoulos," the host asked McConnell whether he was prepared to "take a hostage," so to speak, as The Wall Street Journal's editorial board wrote this week. Stephanopoulos asked McConnell ó twice ó if he was "prepared ... to see the country default" and if that would be "acceptable." "My answer is, hopefully we don't need to get to that point," McConnell said. "The President surely must know we're spending way too much. So why don't we do something about reducing spending?" McConnell also shaped any possible debate as being solely focused on spending cuts, saying that discussions about new revenue from taxes is "behind us." "Oh, yeah, the tax ó the revenue ó the tax issue is finished, over, completed. That's behind us," he said. "Now the question is, what are we going to do about the biggest problem confronting our country and our future? And that's our spending addiction. It's time to confront it. The President surely knows that. I mean, he has mentioned it both publicly and privately. The time to confront it is now." Obama used his weekly address Saturday†to reaffirm past comments saying that he will not negotiate over raising the debt ceiling. "One thing I will not compromise over is whether or not Congress should pay the tab for a bill theyíve already racked up," Obama said. "If Congress refuses to give the United States the ability to pay its bills on time, the consequences for the entire global economy could be catastrophic. The last time Congress threatened this course of action, our entire economy suffered for it. Our families and our businesses cannot afford that dangerous game again." Here's the full clip of McConnell's appearance on ABC: Unfortunately your browser does not support IFrames.
ReutersCC: @jack_welch. Reuters critic Felix Salmon thinks there's something fishy about the official BLS jobs numbers! No, he's not alleging political interference. But he does make this point. The jobs numbers have been ultra-steady, despite the fact that there's an expected 100K margin for error each month. He writes: Every month, economists and traders look first at the headline jobs growth number: this month, itís 155,000. Last month, it was 161,000. Which means the difference is just 6,000. That difference, from month to month, is what Iím charting here. Sometimes the difference is positive and sometimes itís negative, but if you just look at the magnitude of the change, then over the past two years, the typical number has differed from the previous number by an average of 51,000, with a median of 30,000. And over the past five months, the changes have been much smaller still. Itís entirely reasonable to look at these numbers and conclude that the labor-market recovery is ìsteady-as-she-goesî. Each month, we get another 160,000 new jobs, month in, month out, with some very modest month-to-month variation in the number. But hereís the problem. Letís say that the US economy was adding exactly 160,000 new jobs every month, with no variation at all in that number. In that case, what would we expect the monthly payrolls report to show? It would not show an exact 160,000 print every month, because there are errors in the data, as the BLS technical note does a very good job of explaining. Here's the technical note to which he refers: For example, the confidence interval for the monthly change in total nonfarm employment from the establishment survey is on the order of plus or minus 100,000. Suppose the estimate of nonfarm employment increases by 50,000 from one month to† the next. The 90-percent confidence interval on the monthly change would range from -50,000 to +150,000 (50,000 +/- 100,000). These figures do not mean that the sample results are off by these magnitudes, but rather that there is about a 90-percent chance that the true over-the-month change lies within this interval. Since this range includes values of less than zero, we could not say with confidence that† nonfarm employment had, in fact, increased that month. If, however, the reported nonfarm employment rise was 250,000, then all of the values within the 90- percent confidence interval would be greater than zero. In this case, it is likely (at least a 90-percent chance) that nonfarm employment had, in fact, risen that month. At an unemployment rate of around 6.0 percent, the 90-percent confidence interval for the monthly change in unemployment as measured by the household survey is about +/- 300,000, and for the monthly change in the unemployment rate it is about +/- 0.2 percentage point.†††† In general, estimates involving many individuals or establishments have lower standard errors (relative to the size of the estimate) than estimates which are based on a small number of observations. The precision of estimates also is improved when the data are cumulated over time, such as for quarterly and annual averages. The stability is intriguing in light of this wide confidence interval. Meanwhile, Cardiff Garcia at FT Alphaville has a more economics-oriented take on the stability and the resilience of the jobs data: Consider all that has either influenced the US economy or at least made big headlines in the last two years ó winter accelerations seemingly crashing into spring slowdowns; a debt ceiling debate coinciding with a debt downgrade; a supply chain disruption caused by the Japanese earthquake; commodity and gas price spikes; fiscal drag at both the federal and state levels; a dramatically evolving monetary policy framework; an election and fiscal cliff battle; a perpetual near-disaster in Europe and slowing emerging market growth. In that light, the following line in todayís payrolls report is worth a quick remark: In 2012, employment growth averaged 153,000 per month, the same as the average monthly gain for 2011. In part owing to research about seasonal adjustment problems that we came across in late 2011 and early 2012, our line about the recovery throughout the past year has been that things were never quite as bad as we feared in the worst of times, and never quite as good as weíd hoped in the best of times. Garcia concludes that ultimately the numbers give some reason for hope, given how much the economy has endured. As for Felix Salmon's concern, it'd be great if someone more well versed on BLS statistics took a stab at a response. Read Felix's full piece here &gt;
In a note previewing the upcoming Debt Ceiling fight, Goldman's Alec Phillips showed this intriguing chart. Goldman Sachs The chart shows the volatility index in the days leading up to the Debt Ceiling and the Fiscal Cliff, and shows that other than a brief spike at the end there was never any indication of heightened volatility associated with the Fiscal Cliff.¬† This chart isn't totally satisfying, because "hitting" the cliff was never going to be anywhere near as problematic as hitting the debt ceiling. That being said, if Washington brinksmanship become the norm, and everyone gets used to these last minute surprise solutions, then it only makes sense for the market to get used to this stuff. There's an analogy to this that is very interesting, which is the way the economy becomes immune to high oil prices, such that $90 oil today doesn't have the same drag on the economy as it did the first time oil hit $90. The economy adapts. If brinksmanship becomes the norm, don't expect the market to behave each time there's a new flareup.
President Barack Obama used his weekly address as a first step in the discussion over the raising of the debt ceiling, warning that he "will not compromise" on the issue. "One thing I will not compromise over is whether or not Congress should pay the tab for a bill theyíve already racked up," Obama said. If Congress refuses to give the United States the ability to pay its bills on time, the consequences for the entire global economy could be catastrophic. The last time Congress threatened this course of action, our entire economy suffered for it. Our families and our businesses cannot afford that dangerous game again." The raising of the debt ceiling is shaping up as another fight between Congressional Republicans and Obama after the deal to avert the fiscal cliff, which Obama hailed in his weekly address. Republicans have already started to set up a potential debate over the lifting of the debt ceiling. Obama and others have argued†that using the debt ceiling as a negotiation tactic is unacceptable. After the last debt ceiling fight in the summer of 2011, the nation's credit rating was downgraded.  Obama wanted an increase in the debt ceiling to be part of a fiscal cliff deal. But even though he didn't get that, he has said he would not negotiate over what he called a "weapon ...†destroying our own credit rating." Watch Obama's full weekly address here: 
Paul Thurott at Supersite For Windows has an interesting explanation for why Windows 8 PCs are selling so badly: They cost too much. The explosion of netbook sales a few years ago trained consumers to think that they could get Windows PCs for ~$400, Thurott argues. And now that the PC makers are trying to sell new Windows 8 "touch-screen" PCs for twice that much (or more), consumers just think the machines cost too much. As an example of the lousy PC sales, Thurott cites some recently released NPD data showing just how low the average selling price is these days for Windows-based PCs: ìWindows notebook holiday unit sales dropped 11 percent, on par with Black Friday, and similar to the yearly trend, but revenue trends weakened since Black Friday to end the holiday period down 10.5 percent Ö .† [Average Selling Prices, or ASPs] rose only $2 to $420. Touchscreen notebooks were 4.5 percent of Windows 8 sales with ASPs around $700.† Sales of Windows notebooks under $500 fell by 16 percent while notebooks priced above $500 increased 4 percent.î Thurott unpacks a lot of the data in that paragraph, noting that: Thurott attributes the weak touchscreen sales to the price: The machines cost $700 and up, versus the $420 average price for all Windows notebooks. Consumers just don't want to pay that much for what they have come to view as a low-end machine, Thurott says, And Thurott may be right that consumers now equate "Windows" with discount mass-market machines that should only cost $400 or so.† If so, Microsoft and the PC makers will have a struggle on their hands to convince consumers that they should pay much more than that for "premium" machines that are essentially the same. But there's another important question about "touchscreen" notebooks that hasn't been answered yet: Do people actually want to "touch" their notebook screens? I, for one, certainly don't. I've been using notebooks for 25 years now. I am quite happy with the keyboard and trackpad as the input devices. I can set my hands in one place and barely move them, while doing everything I want to do. If I had to touch my notebook screen to do anything, meanwhile, I'd have to lift one or both hands up.† I'd also probably have to brace the machine with my other hand to stop it from tipping over (there's no support behind it the way there is when you put a tablet on a stand). I also actively don't want to 'touch' my notebook screen--because I don't want to get greasy fingerprints all over it. I hate it when people come over and stab their greasy fingers into my notebook screen. The last thing I want is for folks to feel like they are supposed to do that. It's true: In the early days of the iPhone and iPad, I was nervous about the greasy fingerprints all over those screens, too. But those screens can be quickly wiped clean with a swipe. And "touch" is a key part of the user experience. Is it possible that a new generation of notebook users will want to touch their screens? Yes, it's possible. But I don't. So even if touch-based Windows notebooks didn't cost nearly twice as much as regular ones, I wouldn't be touching my screen. (And I certainly wouldn't pay up for the ability to do it). And I'm going to guess that a lot of other folks who have been using notebooks quite happily for years might feel the same way. So I'll just put that question out there: Do people really want to touch their notebook screens? SEE ALSO: Consumer Reports Says The iPhone 5 Is The Worst Of The Top Smartphones
Paul Thurott at Supersite For Windows has an interesting explanation for why Windows 8 PCs are selling so badly: They cost too much. The explosion of netbook sales a few years ago trained consumers to think that they could get Windows PCs for ~$400, Thurott argues. And now that the PC makers are trying to sell new Windows 8 "touch-screen" PCs for twice that much (or more), consumers just think the machines cost too much. As an example of the lousy PC sales, Thurott cites some recently released NPD data showing just how low the average selling price is these days for Windows-based PCs: ìWindows notebook holiday unit sales dropped 11 percent, on par with Black Friday, and similar to the yearly trend, but revenue trends weakened since Black Friday to end the holiday period down 10.5 percent Ö .† [Average Selling Prices, or ASPs] rose only $2 to $420. Touchscreen notebooks were 4.5 percent of Windows 8 sales with ASPs around $700.† Sales of Windows notebooks under $500 fell by 16 percent while notebooks priced above $500 increased 4 percent.î Thurott unpacks a lot of the data in that paragraph, noting that: Thurott attributes the weak touchscreen sales to the price: The machines cost $700 and up, versus the $420 average price for all Windows notebooks. Consumers just don't want to pay that much for what they have come to view as a low-end machine, Thurott says, And Thurott may be right that consumers now equate "Windows" with discount mass-market machines that should only cost $400 or so.† If so, Microsoft and the PC makers will have a struggle on their hands to convince consumers that they should pay much more than that for "premium" machines that are essentially the same. But there's another important question about "touchscreen" notebooks that hasn't been answered yet: Do people actually want to "touch" their notebook screens? I, for one, certainly don't. I've been using notebooks for 25 years now. I am quite happy with the keyboard and trackpad as the input devices. I can set my hands in one place and barely move them, while doing everything I want to do. If I had to touch my notebook screen to do anything, meanwhile, I'd have to lift one or both hands up.† I'd also probably have to brace the machine with my other hand to stop it from tipping over (there's no support behind it the way there is when you put a tablet on a stand). I also actively don't want to 'touch' my notebook screen--because I don't want to get greasy fingerprints all over it. I hate it when people come over and stab their greasy fingers into my notebook screen. The last thing I want is for folks to feel like they are supposed to do that. It's true: In the early days of the iPhone and iPad, I was nervous about the greasy fingerprints all over those screens, too. But those screens can be quickly wiped clean with a swipe. And "touch" is a key part of the user experience. Is it possible that a new generation of notebook users will want to touch their screens? Yes, it's possible. But I don't. So even if touch-based Windows notebooks didn't cost nearly twice as much as regular ones, I wouldn't be touching my screen. (And I certainly wouldn't pay up for the ability to do it). And I'm going to guess that a lot of other folks who have been using notebooks quite happily for years might feel the same way. So I'll just put that question out there: Do people really want to touch their notebook screens? SEE ALSO: Consumer Reports Says The iPhone 5 Is The Worst Of The Top Smartphones
The average fuel economy of cars in America hit 23.5 miles per gallon, the highest figure ever recorded, according to the University of Michigan. It's also at least the fifth-consecutive year the figure has set a record. Michigan's eco-driving index calculates the fuel economy of all model-year vehicles sold in America, then weighs them by sales volume to arrive at its index. The index also found¬†average monthly emissions of greenhouse gases generated by an individual U.S. driver has improved 21 percent since October 2007, to 0.79 in October 2012, according to Gasbuddy.¬† Here's the MPG chart ‚Äî the figure ticked down slightly at the end of the year as gas prices decreased: University of Michigan
Gold is on its longest losing streak in 8 years. Per the AP, it's now fallen 6 straight weeks, and is 8% below where it was on October 4. Why is gold losing its appeal? There are two main drivers of gold. One is volatility. When volatility rises, people rush to it as a "safe" asset. Volatility's been getting crushed lately. Even with all of the Fiscal Cliff/Debt Ceiling nonsense, people are starting to become immune to it all. The other aspect is interest rates. Particularly real interest rates. As real interest rates rise (or start to rise) the dollar holds more appeal, and gold holds relatively less appeal. Interest rates have been ticking up, and there are the first murmurs about an end date for the Fed's extraordinary easing. This too makes gold marginally less attractive. For a fun chart relating to volatility and gold, here's a look at volatility (red line) vs. gold/oil (blue line). It's not a perfect match, but it's clear: When volatility spikes, gold surges relative to the industrial commodity oil.  SEE ALSO: JPMorgan's complete guide to the markets &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsDeclaration of IndependenceYesterday at the American Economic Association's 2013 Annual Meeting, Carmen Reinhart and Ken Rogoff offered a paper titled Shifting Mandates: The Federal Reserve‚Äôs First Centennial. The paper included a cool chart of inflation since 1775.¬† The authors argue that inflation didn't take off until the U.S. went off the gold standard in 1933.¬† From the paper: It is probable that in 1913, while financial panics were not uncommon, high inflation was still largely seen by the founders of the Fed as a relatively rare phenomenon associated with wars and their immediate aftermath. Figure 1 plots the US price level from 1775 (set equal to one) until 2012. In 1913 prices were only about 20 percent higher than in 1775 and around 40 percent lower than in 1813, during the War of 1812. Whatever the mandates of the Federal Reserve, it is clear that the evolution of the price level in the United States is dominated by the abandonment of the gold standard in 1933 and the adoption of fiat money subsequently.¬†¬† ¬†One hundred years after its creation, consumer prices are about 30 times higher than what they were in 1913. This pattern, in varying orders of magnitudes, repeats itself across nearly all countries. American Economic Association
 As discussed earlier (see post), US manufacturing sector has begun to recover. Manufacturing orders in the US as well as in Emerging Asia (see post) have diverged from other large economies. This trend is becoming reflected in the broader economic activity. However according to JPMorgan, the result of the latest fiscal negotiations will soon create headwinds for this expansion and dampen GDP growth. The tax increases on ¬†higher income households as well as the hike in payroll taxes will crate a drag on growth. That in turn will limit global economic activity. JPMorgan: - Regionally the US and Emerging Asia are leading the move up in our global surveys. In the US, early December labor market reports and consumer indicators reinforce this message. Unfortunately, the economy is about to hit a pothole as the household sector absorbs a large front-loaded drag resulting from the fiscal cliff agreement. The increase in payroll taxes and higher marginal rates on high-income households is set to depress 1H13 income growth by roughly 2%-pts at an annualized pace. 
Daniel Goodman/Business InsiderAfter days of tension political infighting and public eruptions, Congress finally voted Friday to approved $9.7 billion in disaster relief funds to provide flood insurance for victims of Hurricane Sandy. The vote temporarily quells the bipartisan outrage over Republican House Speaker John Boehner's earlier decision to pull the plug on the bill. But lawmakers in New York and New Jersey are not fully placated, and are bracing themselves for a bigger battle over the remainder of the relief package that still awaits approval in Congress.† Click here to see the photos &gt; That's because the bill that passed the House of Representatives on Friday is only a small part of the $60 billion in disaster relief funds sought by the states affected by Hurricane Sandy. The bulk of that money will pay for more visible recovery efforts that will be felt broadly in devastated communities ó road repairs, rebuilding public infrastructure, and providing disaster relief funding to families and businesses.† We headed out to Rockaway Beach this week to get a firsthand view of how critical this relief money will be to communities affected by Sandy. More than two months after Sandy hit, this blue-collar beachside community is still struggling to recover from the superstorm, which devasted homes, businesses, and civic life up and down the shoreline.†
Jan. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Prime Minister David Cameron predicted a difficult year for the U.K. economy that will require maintaining the current mix of low interest rates and budget-deficit reduction. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a tough economic environment we‚Äôre in,‚Äù Cameron said on the ‚ÄúAndrew Marr Show‚Äù on the BBC. ‚ÄúRight now, Britain needs low interest rates.‚Äù Cameron indicated in a Sunday Telegraph interview that he would like to stay in office another seven years, even as an opinion poll suggested his Conservative Party will lose power in 2015. To keep borrowing costs down, the coalition government must sustain a ‚Äúcredible strategy‚Äù for controlling the budget deficit, he said today. ‚ÄúThe top of the list of worries is making sure you continue to have credibility for the deficit reduction strategy,‚Äù Cameron said. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs the key.‚Äù Persuading global investors that they should keep buying U.K. bonds is ultimately more important than whether ‚Äúhugely important‚Äù ratings companies downgrade gilts, he said. Standard &amp; Poor‚Äôs last month lowered its outlook on Britain‚Äôs top credit rating to negative, citing weak economic growth and a worsening debt profile. Bank of England policy makers next week will keep the benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent and the quantitative- easing target at 375 billion pounds ($603 billion), according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Credit Improvement U.K. credit conditions eased in the fourth quarter and spreads on mortgage rates declined because of the so-called Funding for Lending Scheme that began in August, according to a Bank of England report last week. Still, services unexpectedly slumped in December, raising the risk of an economic contraction, and economists at Citigroup Inc. forecast more QE in 2013. The yield on 10-year U.K. government bonds posted the biggest gain in four years last week, rising above 2 percent for the first time since May 10, as the U.S. budget deal curbed demand for the safest assets. ‚ÄúWe can depend‚Äù on the Bank of England, said Cameron, who praised the performance of Governor Mervyn King. Mark Carney, who will succeed King in July, is the ‚Äúworld‚Äôs leading candidate as a central bank governor,‚Äù he said. The economy is on the ‚Äúright track‚Äù with declining unemployment and there are ‚Äúgood signs‚Äù it is rebalancing toward fresh drivers of growth such as manufacturing, the prime minister said. Conservatives Trail An opinion poll published in the Daily Mail today showed the opposition Labour Party with 38 percent support, the Conservatives on 29 percent and Liberal Democrats on 11 percent. The survey by Survation of 1,002 people on Jan. 3 and Jan 4 found 16 percent backing for the U.K. Independence Party. Such a result in the 2015 election would upend Cameron‚Äôs plans, which the Telegraph reports include staying as prime minister until 2020. ‚ÄúI want to fight the next election, win the next election and serve,‚Äù he said in an interview with the newspaper. The government this week will publish a document setting out the mid-term aims of the Conservatives‚Äô coalition with Nick Clegg‚Äôs Liberal Democrats. ‚ÄúFar from running out of ideas, we‚Äôve got a packed agenda.‚Äù The two parties have clashed over issues such as welfare reform and changes to the House of Lords. The prime minister also delivers a speech this month on his vision for the U.K.‚Äôs role in Europe as he comes under pressure from lawmakers in his party who want to pull out of the European Union. He told the BBC that advisers were studying areas in which the U.K. may seek to revise agreements with fellow European governments, declining to provide details. European Changes ‚ÄúWe want to be members of the European Union, particularly the single market, but there are changes we‚Äôd like to make,‚Äù he said. Cameron also said the U.K. military is prepared to defend the Falkland Islands if necessary, after Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner demanded the islands be handed over. The U.K. and Argentina went to war in 1982 over the South American islands. ‚ÄúI get regular reports on this entire issue because I want to know that our defenses are strong,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄòOur resolve is extremely strong.‚Äô‚Äô --Editors: Ross Larsen, Paul Sillitoe To contact the reporter on this story: Simon Kennedy in London at Skennedy4@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Hertling at jhertling@bloomberg.net
The first reading on rail traffic showed a modest decline to -0.1%.¬† The beginning of the year is usually a volatile period for rail traffic trends so it‚Äôs better to take a bit longer view here.¬† The 12 moving moving average remains modestly positive at 2.23%.¬† That‚Äôs consistent with an economy that is expanding, but still muddling through.¬† Here‚Äôs a bit more detail via the AAR: ‚ÄúThe Association of American Railroads (AAR) today reported mixed 2012 rail traffic compared with 2011.¬† U.S. rail intermodal volume totaled 12.3 million containers and trailers in 2012, up 3.2 percent or 374,918 units, over 2011. Carloads totaled 14.7 million in 2012, down 3.1 percent or 476,322 carloads, from 2011.¬† Intermodal volume in 2012 was the second highest on record, down 0.1 percent or 14,885 containers and trailers, from the record high totals of 2006. In 2012, 12 of the 20 carload commodity categories tracked by AAR saw increases on U.S. railroads compared with 2011.¬† The biggest gains were petroleum products, up 170,994 carloads or 46.3 percent; motor vehicles and parts, up 114,221 carloads or 16.5 percent; crushed stone, sand and gravel, up 71,012 carloads or 7.9 percent; and lumber and wood products, up 18,659 carloads or 13 percent.‚Äù Chart via Orcam Investment Research: Orcam Investment Research
JP Morgan FundsDavid P. Kelly, chief global strategist at JP Morgan Funds and his team have published the latest quarterly† Guide To The Markets. As investors head into the first quarter, Kelly and his team put together charts that look at the long-term trends in equities, returns of various asset classes, changes in the U.S. economy, and the performance of global markets. Here is their guide updated for the first quarter.
Where Nuclear Failed, Oil Succeeded ¬† In a continuation of our series on the state of the oil industry we look at some of the other ramifications of what we are labeling the Oil Renaissance in the US, and around the world for that matter.¬† This phrase was first proposed regarding the potential Nuclear turnaround here in the US, where companies like NRG Energy, Toshiba and many more players all along the supply chain were positioning themselves for the Nuclear Renaissance of cheap, and abundant Nuclear energy for the next 50 years. Well, the natural disaster in Japan changed that movement in the span of a week of just untenable radioactivity readings coming out of Japan.¬† An already uphill battle for changing public sentiment towards the dangers of nuclear energy became an impractical fight from an investment standpoint that relied upon large DOE loan guarantees to attract private investment.¬† It is ironic, but all these companies spent a lot of time and effort from lobbying to developing strategic partnerships with each other, and in the end, most of that 7 year effort had to be written off by firms. It really shows how firms have to get the industry right; Oil was so much the smarter play. Higher margins, better technology, much easier safety hurdles, and even the environmental fight is much more manageable. Not to mention the number of jobs created is far more with an Oil Renaissance as opposed to a Nuclear Renaissance, even with a complete buildup of the entire nuclear supply chain. Nuclear projects are just not scalable like oil projects are from a numbers standpoint due to the regulation, lead times for components, inspection, build times, and many more constraints. No DOE Loan Guarantees: The Free Market at Work  We are going to have a Renaissance in this country, it just happened under everyone`s nose. The free market of high oil prices for the last 10 years made it happen all on its own without government subsidies, and part of the reason that things are going to get real tough for the alternative energy folks over the next 5 years as those government subsidies wind down. They will not make sense from an economic standpoint once oil prices come down considerably, and from a budgetary perspective we can no longer afford this propping up industries that cannot sustain themselves on their own merit in the free market. A 16 trillion dollar debt and climbing means the environmentalists will now be facing an uphill fight on Capitol Hill to have their cause funded by the American taxpayer.¬†  Technology Changes: Heart Surgery meets the Oil Patch The technology changes alone in the oil industry are amazing; just watch a horizontal drilling or fracking video and it is like all the advances made by the medical community for endoscopic procedures and advanced heart surgical techniques have been applied to the oil industry. And the cost is far more manageable than the medical field with all the added insurance costs, out of control bureaucracy, and government intervention all but eliminating any sense of free market principles. Sure these constraints exist in the oil industry, but the healthcare industry is on a planet of its own and worse from a cost efficiency standpoint by a factor of at least a 100. There is not an ounce of free market in the healthcare industry! We haven`t seen anything yet as this new technology being refined and implemented here in the US will then be fully scalable around the globe, and the amount of new projects that will come online globally with this new technology over the next ten years has yet to be priced into any market intelligence models. Natural Gas Industry as the Model The natural gas industry is much smaller than the oil industry, and because of the new technology firms were actually continuing production with $2 natural gas because of much lower overall project costs relative to the size of the gas exploitable and other derivative products made along the way enabling ¬†these projects to be profitable.¬† The oil industry is much more scalable from a cost standpoint, and once these upfront costs have been committed, the size of the industry and scalability means that projects can continue and be highly profitable even with much lower oil prices.¬† I previously have thought that this technology would suffer as prices drop, but I am rethinking this assumption with natural gas as my guide in a much less scalable industry. So I now believe that this technology and these projects will continue and be cost effective even with oil dropping to $45 a barrel for both Brent and WTI. slant and horizontal drillingIt won`t happen overnight, but under one scenario prices will just steadily trend down like natural gas prices, and before we realize it we have the equivalent of $2 natural gas prices for the oil industry. The China Factor: Use less Commodities for Next Decade  My assumption about the trajectory of oil prices also relies on the China factor that many analysts have been toying with for the last couple of years, but the IMF and others have done some nice research on and applied some hard numbers to the conceptual idea that China has overinvested for the last decade by a large degree, and most of the previous forecasts for China`s growth trajectory from an infrastructure standpoint for the next 10 years are far too optimistic.¬† My conclusion is that China will use far less commodities than they did the past decade going forward for the next decade. They are coming into the constraints of large numbers where you have built for the sake of building, and you can no longer build another large new city every year because the demand just isn`t there. Basically, the easy, low hanging fruit has been eaten. Most of the new project benefits will not justify the cost based upon infrastructure constraints, logistical incongruities, and actual demand &amp; societal need for said projects. The societal costs outweigh the societal benefits and the projects evaluated in total become a net drag on growth and GDP in the overall calculus. China can go ahead with these projects but the law of diminishing returns, means the country will pay a heavy price to do so. China will continue to grow, but they will grow in a more sophisticated way from a social perspective from within, i.e. in a metaphorical Maslow`s ‚Äì Hierarchy of Needs manner, and less of a brute, infrastructure driven manner.¬† Ergo, the lower utilization for commodities by China is another factor that will put downward pressure on Oil and other commodities over the next 5 to 10 years. More Storage Capacity Needed Globally Make no mistake these oil and commodity projects are going to go full stream regardless of price due to sunk costs, more efficient operations, job creation, and overall profitability. One of the takeaways out of this analysis is that storage facilities will have to be upgraded and new ones coming online for all commodities. For example in Oil, my analysis concludes that Cushing will need to upgrade capacity to over 100 million in the next couple of years, and over 150 million by 5 years‚Äô time. My new analysis determines the need for even more pipelines being built out of Cushing as well. There will need to be at least 5 million barrels per day outflow from Cushing to refineries by five years‚Äô time; can anyone say job creation opportunities here? The next substantial upgrade besides the paltry 300,000 per/day upgrade this year will not come online until mid-2014 and only improve capacity to 850,000 barrels per/day outflow from Cushing which is not going to be enough to counter an exponential measure of domestic production coming into the Cushing energy hub by 2014.¬† But I am forecasting that not only will Cushing be above 100 million in storage in three years‚Äô time, but the US will need capacity to store over 600 million barrels by four years‚Äô time, and China who is building storage currently, will need to meet their own need for storage due to a massive oversupply in their country. China was building storage initially for strategic purposes, but my analysis concludes that because of an oversupply issue similar to copper today in China, they are going to need this additional storage for excess supply issues. Therefore, if you‚Äôre in the storage facility business, times will be good for the next five years, plenty of business for these firms. As I think storage facilities will have to be built all around the world from Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Africa, and the Scandinavian countries.¬†  A New Price Model for Oil So how low can prices go? Let`s just say that the Renaissance in oil is going to be good for the global economy, just back in 2003 gasoline prices were $1.60 a gallon in the US and oil was trading around $30 a barrel.¬† It is not unreasonable to think if the Oil Renaissance takes the path that it is capable of that Oil globally trades all the way down to the $45 area.  What Price do the Saudi`s Really Need? Need &amp; Want Confused And those that think that OPEC would need $75 to keep up production, remember that OPEC still kept pumping oil only four years ago with $33 oil in 2008. Furthermore, OPEC countries still need the overall revenue not the price per say. Accordingly, you could very easily have a scenario where prices go lower and they pump more, violate reduction quotas because they all want the revenue net of volume and price, not just less volume but slightly higher prices. I think the world will be surprised how the talking your book rhetoric of ‚Äúwe need $75 oil to justify production‚Äù is replaced with the actual, ‚Äúwe need the money and our real cost is so much lower than you could ever imagine‚Äù reality on the ground. This is their one asset in these countries, some revenue stream is better than no revenue stream, and with global production picking up OPEC `s relevance, power, and influence on prices is diminishing by the day.Great OPEC you can reduce production, your global competitors will love that, less competition for them. The only problem is that these countries need the money, every country needs the money these days, and that`s the market place you take what you can get on the market! The market goes in cycles, just as the housing market re-priced itself, so will the oil market!¬† The ironic point here is that often the lower prices go, the more oil that is produced trying to make up in volume for the lower price to get as much revenue as possible.¬†  $45 Oil &amp; $2 Gasoline: Consumers Love this New Era In conclusion, we are entering a new Renaissance in the oil market, not just in the US, but globally as well. New technology, slower growth in the emerging markets over the next decade, and an era where a decade of high prices will finally bear some fruit with market dynamics working as their supposed to leading to more supply, and an eventual reduction in prices.¬† Expect this new era to manifest itself in giving the entire world a tax break, and small businesses and consumers worldwide will have more disposable income, and sectors such as retail, entertainment, transportation, and global travel will benefit as a result of this sea change in the oil industry. I could even envision the manufacturing industry in the US getting a large piggyback effect as the US will have some of the cheapest energy costs of anywhere in the world for starting a business with an abundance of natural gas, oil and petroleum products for the next decade at a low and stable price.¬† How does $45 a barrel oil and $2 a gallon gas sound? Something the peak oil folks thought was an outright impossibility just 5 years ago.¬† But a lot of things can change real fast, once technology gets involved, impossible things become possible. Just look at smartphones versus 4 years ago, and the fact that I can deposit a check into my checking account via my smartphone, actually surf the net, get usable navigation directions, and watch Netflix movies on my smartphone. The world history of scientific innovation being applied to markets is remarkable to say the least looking back, it‚Äôs now time for the oil market to have its second renaissance. Expect $45 oil in the future of this renaissance. Further Reading -¬†Oil &amp; Gasoline Markets End 2012 with Swollen Inventory Levels ¬© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle  Read more posts on EconMatters ¬ª
