Things are fairly quiet in world markets right now, but there's a general lift going on. Japan is up about 0.5% and US futures have risen after the ball. There are more signs of a deal in Washington that would at least push of the debt ceiling situation for awhile longer, and the GOP demands have softened considerably since the original "defund" Obamacare push. Here's US futures.¬† You can see the rise since the 4 PM close. FinViz
Gartner released its quarterly PC report and the news isn't good. But it isn't all bad either. Worldwide, the PC industry declined¬† another 8.6% to 80.3 million units total. That's the lowest number of PC sold in a quarter since the economy crashed in 2008, Gartner analyst Mikako Kitagawa said. The PC market continues to be hurt by consumers choosing tablets instead, particularly low-cost Android tablets in emerging markets, Kitagawa said. Lenovo was still the No. 1 biggest vendor worldwide, with nearly 18% share, a position it took from HP last quarter. HP had 17% share, Dell had nearly 12%, Acer had 8% and Asus had 6%. The good news was that the PC industry actually grew 3.5% over the year-ago quarter in the U.S. This is the "back-to-school" quarter and that's why people were buying more PCs. Kitagawa believes that the worst is over for the U.S. PC market. Although she expects the U.S. market to continue to decline, it won't shrink as drastically in the coming years as it has since 2010, she predicts. In the U.S., HP was the No. 1 vendor with about 27% share, followed by Dell with 21%, Apple with 13%, Lenovo at 10% and Toshiba with 7%. Table¬†1Preliminary Worldwide PC Vendor Unit Shipment Estimates for 3Q13 (Units) Company 3Q13 Shipments 3Q13 Market Share (%) 3Q12 Shipments 3Q12 Market Share (%) 3Q12-3Q13 Growth (%) Lenovo 14,154,355 17.6 13,774,828 15.7 2.8 HP 13,732,398 17.1 13,532,449 15.4 1.5 Dell 9,306,202 11.6 9,218,063 10.5 1.0 Acer Group 6,666,789 8.3 8,615,940 9.8 -22.6 Asus 4,923,397 6.1 6,354,096 7.2 -22.5 Others 31,496,126 39.2 36,314,030 41.4 -13.3 Total 80,279,267 100.0 87,809,406 100.0 -8.6 Note: Data includes desk-based PCs and mobile PCs, including mini-notebooks but not media tablets such as the iPad. Source: Gartner (August 2013)
Wikimedia CommonsFlorida Congressman Ted Yoho, who believes that a default would be good for world markets. One of the more concerning developments in the debt-ceiling fight is the growing contingent of Republicans who just aren't that worried about raising the debt ceiling in a timely fashion. The most famous remark came from Tea Party Congressman Ted Yoho who said he thought that hitting the debt ceiling would be a calming force for world markets, since it would signal that the U.S. is getting its debt under control. Slate's Dave Weigel was the first to put together a grand unified overview of the situation. The key observation is that the "Debt Ceiling Trutherism" is in large part the result of a lot of over-hyped events in the past (like the government shutdown) that didn't turn into a total catastrophe; so they're skeptical of claims that the debt ceiling is this huge deal. Yesterday, Jonathan Weisman at The New York Times also surveyed the GOP skeptics in an article†Many in G.O.P. Offer Theory: Default Wouldnít Be That Bad. But, the truth is that there's a lot of imprecise language being thrown around, and there are a lot of strains of debt-ceiling skepticism. For example, in Weisman's piece, he spotlights the comments of North Carolina Senator Richard Burr: ìWe always have enough money to pay our debt service,î said Mr. Burr, who pointed to a stream of tax revenue flowing into the Treasury as he shrugged off fears of a cascading financial crisis. ìYouíve had the federal government out of work for close to two weeks; thatís about $24 billion a month. Every month, you have enough saved in salaries alone that youíre covering three-fifths, four-fifths of the total debt service, about $35 billion a month. Thatís manageable for some time.î Saying that the U.S. has more money coming in each day than it pays out in interest payments is NOT saying that default wouldn't be that bad. Burr is saying he doesn't think hitting the debt ceiling would immediately lead to default. There's a difference. Now, Burr's stance is problematic for two reasons: One is that prioritization of interest payments may be technically impossible. The other is that there are some days when the U.S. has to pay more in interest payments than it takes in in tax revenues. So, while what Burr says is true for most days, it's not even vaguely sustainable. But still! Burr is not saying default wouldn't be that bad. He's saying something else. Weisman then quotes Tennessee Senator Bob Corker, who has a slightly different take: A surprisingly broad section of the Republican Party is convinced that a threat once taken as economic fact may not exist ó or at least may not be so serious. Some question the Treasuryís drop-dead deadline of Oct. 17. Some government services might have to be curtailed, they concede. ìBut I think the real date, candidly, the date thatís highly problematic for our nation, is Nov. 1,î said Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee. Again, this is not denying the importance of the debt ceiling, and it's certainly not the same as being okay with default. It's just saying, Treasury is too conservative with its U.S. cash balance estimates. And actually that's probably true. A chart from the Bipartisan Policy Center puts the true "X-Date" as being somewhere between Oct. 22 and Nov. 1. Now Corker is being pointlessly blasÈ about this (the debt ceiling should be raised ASAP) but there's a huge gap between what he's saying (that there's some wiggle room on the debt) and not worrying about default. Or even being worried about the debt ceiling. In fact, in the NYT piece, the only TRUE default heretic is Ted Yoho. Everyone else is somewhere between Corker and Burr. So what we really need is a taxonomy of trutherism. The basic categories look like this: Oct. 17 skeptics: This crowd thinks the Treasury has more time than its publicly admitting. They're probably right, to some extent. People who believe a debt ceiling breach doesn't equal default: This crowd believes that the U.S. has plenty of money coming in each day, and taht that money could cover payments on the debt. This is generally true, but there are also legal, technical, and scheduling challenges that should cause them to rethink their complacency. Actual people who don't care about a debt default: So far it seems like it's only Ted Yoho of Florida who is in this boat. And frankly, there is a non-insane defense of not freaking out too much about a debt default. HSBC points out in a note that a default on short-term T-Bills would not affect the mechanics of trading on all other non-defaulted securities, which means that for the most part the world's most important asset class could function as normal. And if you want a real trip, read liberal economist Dean Baker, who argues that a debt default would help the U.S. because it would weaken the dollar (making exports more competitive) and also accelerate the shrinkage of the financial system, which he regards as parasitical. All this being said, there are huge risks associated with all these more optimistic scenarios. Maybe Oct. 17 is the drop dead date. Maybe there's literally no way to technically pay Treasury holders first, and we do default on the debt, causing a stock market crash and a seizing up of every bank connected to the Federal Reserve system. There are very plausible ways this could be catastrophic. We don't know and testing this is irresponsible, not just because it could all go bad, but the process of looking like we might test it is hurting economic confidence right now. The government shutdown isn't good for the economy, but it can be reversed, and there's no risk of a financial system blowup. That's a legitimate avenue for debate. The debt ceiling should not be negotiated. Just hike it. ADDENDUM: One last thing that's important here. None of these "Debt Ceiling Truthers" matter in any substantial way. When Boehner (who believes that breaching the debt ceiling would be bad) wants the debt-ceiling hike to happen, he'll be able to get the votes.
It's the 40th anniversary of the first Middle East oil embargo, which triggered a gas crisis in American and forever changed the course of U.S. energy policy. The Wall Street Journal's Ben Lefevbre has a good piece discussing how much things have changed. Thanks to the Great American Shale Boom, there has actually been a huge surge in U.S. petroleum exports. Today, countries are increasingly relying on us. With rare exceptions, only refined petroleum products ó things like heating oil, diesel, gasoline and petrochemicals ó are allowed to leave American shores.†Congress actually banned shipping raw crude oil in 1975. The volume of these exported refined products is quite substantial.† Here's the chart showing exports are now at an unprecedented 3.9 million barrels a day ó equivalent to half of everything we're producing: EIA So where is it all going? Not surprisingly, Canada and Mexico get the most. But after that is when it starts to get interesting: major destinations include Brazil, Chile, the Netherlands ó and China, which is set to surpass the U.S. as world's largest importer of energy.†Exports there jumped 16% year-over-year in 2012. Business Insider Here's the raw data showing each countries share of U.S. exports. EIA It's an incredible story.
General Assemb.lyStarting a company is the supreme business challenge. It seems like everything you learn is the hard way. We can't promise that attending Startup will make it easy, but we can promise that you'll learn a ton and gain inspiration and helpful contacts.† This year at Business Insider's Startup 2013†conference†we've partnered with General Assemb.ly to run ìStartup University.î Choose three classes from a schedule packed with 15 great choices and you'll soak up business lessons from industry leaders. The lineup includes: And many more. For the full list of classes, see the Startup agenda. In the afternoon, you'll hear from top entrepreneurs from NYC and the Valley, VCs, and other experts. We're particularly excited to have the former CEO of Indeed.com -- a company that had one of NYC's biggest exists -- on stage sharing how he did it, along with leading investors John Borthwick (betaworks, investor in Tumblr) and Bijan Sabet†(Spark Capital, investor in Twitter). After a great day, enjoy a networking reception with stunning views of the Hudson.† Grab your tickets (at entrepreneur-friendly rates).  If you are interested in sponsorship opportunities at Startup 2013, please contact events@businessinsider.com. Follow @BI_Events on Twitter for Startup updates.
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How Advisors Can Better Explain Benchmarking To Clients (The Wall Street Journal) The S&amp;P is not a good benchmark for investors with a diversified portfolio, writes Steve Blumenthal CEO &amp; founder of Pennsylvania-based CMG Capital Management Group in a new WSJ column. Instead Blumenthal recommends three different "buckets containing three types of investments." "The first bucket is the equity bucket, and this could be compared with the S&amp;P. However you need a second benchmark for the bonds in a client's portfolio, which could be better compared with the Barclays bond index. The third bucket I reserve for alternative strategies or things like REITS or commodities. There are many different kinds of strategies that could fall into this bucket and each has a different benchmark, so you may end up using many different benchmarks for this bucket. "There is another benchmark advisers can use that is simple and more accurate for many portfolios than the S&amp;P. Our industry has for the most part adopted a basic portfolio mix of 60% stocks and 40% bonds so you could compare that to a global 60/40 index." Investors Should Not Try To Market-Time During The Debt Ceiling Debacle (Vanguard)  Markets continue to focus on the fast approaching October 17 debt ceiling deadline. This is the date when the Treasury will reach its borrowing limit. Ken Volpert at Vanguard says that he does expect the situation to be resolved by the deadline. "If investors feel the crisis has passed, we could see an uptick in stocks and riskier bonds along with a decline in Treasury bond prices," he said."We recommend that investors not try to market-time in this environment. Even the hint of an agreement or resolution, which could happen at any time, could lead to significant price movements in the markets. Investors should look through this short-term crisis and keep their focus on maintaining their long-term asset mix at their target levels of stocks and bonds." It Has Been A While Since We've Had The Current Combination Of Bull And Bear Markets Among The Three Major Asset Classes (Business Insider) "The stock market is likely in the midst of another temporary pullback in a contenting bull market," writes Jeff Kleintop of LPL Financial to Business Insider. "However, other traditional asset classes may be suffering from a bear market that may linger. "Many investors may not be sure how to proceed since it has been a long time since we have seen the current combination of bull and bear markets among the three major asset classes. Bull and bear market trends over the past 63 years reveal that the current environment is most like that of the 1950s, when stocks were in a bull market while bonds and cash were in bear markets. So while the current market combination is rare, it is not unheard of. Nor has it been a fleeting or fragile one. "For nearly the entire decade of the the 1950s, stocks remained in an upward trending secular bull market while bonds and cash were mainly in a bear market. That is an encouraging sign that this pullback in the stock market may offer an attractive buying opportunity as the bull market resumes." LPL FinancialAdvisors Need To Change How They Broach Philanthropic Giving With Clients (Investment News)  Only 41% of high-net-worth clients are satisfied with discussions on charitable giving with their advisors, according to a new survey by U.S. Trust Institutional Investments &amp; Philanthropic Solutions and The Philanthropic Initiative. Claire Costello, national philanthropic practice executive for U.S. Trust told Investment News that this i because advisors aren't taking a 'holistic' view to these conversations. Only 35% of advisors and attorneys said they broached the subject from the point of view of the client's passion and goals. An overwhelming number still broach the subject with tax planning in mind.† The Five Cornerstones To Making A Perfect Partnership (FA Mag) There are five "cornerstones" to have a good partnership, according to Philip Palaveev at FA Mag. 1. "Firm First: The Fiduciary Attitude." 2. "Lead By Example, Behave Like A Partner." 3. "Balance Involvement With Decisiveness." 4. "Create Accountability." 5. "Have the Difficult Conversations."
Dilbert, the well-known comic strip by cartoonist Scott Adams¬†about the office everyman and his crew of incompetent colleagues, was the first syndicated comic that focused primarily¬†on the workplace when it launched in 1989. Five years later, it had become so successful that Adams quit his corporate career to work on it full-time.¬†¬† It wasn't a straight line to success. Early versions of the comic were rejected by several publications, including The New Yorker and Playboy. It¬†wasn't until an editor at United Media saw it and recognized her own husband in the character that it finally got its¬†start, says¬†Adams¬†in his upcoming book ‚ÄúHow to Fail at Almost Everything and Still Win Big.‚Äù¬† Ever since, the comic has explored topics like the inefficiency of meetings, the uselessness of management, and the absurdity of¬†office politics.¬† Exclusively for Business Insider,¬†Adams looked through the archives and shared¬†his 10 favorite Dilbert comics. Below, he explains why he chose¬†each and¬†counts them down to his absolute favorite of all-time. 10) Oct. 10, 2009: ‚ÄúDream job‚Äù¬†Courtesy of Scott Adams "This comic causes the reader to imagine a funny future in which Wally will only pretend to do the assignment. Humor sometimes works best when one suggests what is coming without showing it. People laugh harder when they need to use their imaginations to complete the joke.¬† "I also like comics in which characters are unusually happy about something trivial, evil, or selfish. That juxtaposition is always funny to me. "Another technique I often use involves characters saying things that should only be thought. That creates the inappropriateness that gives it an edge." ¬† 9) Sept. 24, 2009: ‚ÄúOpportunities‚Äù Courtesy of Scott Adams"Management-by-slogan usually comes across to employees as ridiculous and condescending. That, in part, is what makes the staff in this comic so uncaring about the boss‚Äôs house burning down. The ordinary evil of regular people is always funny to me. It‚Äôs easy to relate to it." ¬†¬† 8) Nov. 12, 2009: ‚ÄúRoll a donut in front of the cave‚Äù Courtesy of Scott Adams "A common humor technique involves juxtaposing something of immense importance with something trivial. The pairing of things that don‚Äôt belong together makes your brain ‚Äúsneeze‚Äù in the form of a laugh. In this comic, Wally is comparing his digestive system to Jesus rising from the dead. A dash of spiritual inappropriateness gives it some seasoning." ¬† 7) Dec. 3, 2009: ‚ÄúReusable presentation‚Äù Courtesy of Scott Adams"As I mentioned, I enjoy humor that highlights the selfish nature of people. We all relate to it. If you have a job, you probably spend some part of each day trying to disguise your selfish motives as win-win scenarios. And your attempts are probably as transparent as Wally‚Äôs.¬† "I also like jokes that involve inappropriate solutions to problems. This one has both. When you can layer two humor triggers in the same comic it almost always works." ¬† 6) Dec. 9, 2009: ‚ÄúCatching up to competition‚Äù Courtesy of Scott Adams"This one works because you never see the pointy-haired boss‚Äôs reaction, but you can imagine it vividly.¬† "Keeping true to the major theme of Dilbert, this comic highlights the uselessness of management. If you‚Äôve ever had a boss, this one probably hits home for you."  5) Jan. 7, 2010: ‚ÄúSynchronizing excuses‚Äù Courtesy of Scott Adams"I very much enjoy mocking common sayings. Often those little nuggets of wisdom make no sense whatsoever, but we‚Äôve heard them so often they feel as if they do. Good things¬†might¬†come to those who wait, but so does starvation. "This comic is also an example of what I call an 'engineered solution.' Wally has cleverly synchronized his excuses to the thunderstorm. I find cleverness to be funny when it is in the service of selfishness."  4) April 13, 2010: ‚ÄúAsok‚Äôs snout‚Äù Courtesy of Scott Adams"Here I‚Äôm juxtaposing an ordinary workplace lunch with the ridiculousness of Asok having a dog snout. Dilbert and Wally take it in stride. That‚Äôs the first humor level, but it wouldn‚Äôt be enough to make it work.¬† "The second level is that we all know people who value form over function while being oblivious to how others view them. When you shine a light on irrational human behavior it usually triggers a laugh reflex." ¬† 3) Sept. 27, 2010: ‚ÄúBrain golfing‚Äù Courtesy of Scott Adams"If you attend meetings, you probably spend a lot of time thinking your own thoughts while your coworkers drone on. This comic is funny to me because the boss is revealing his selfish thoughts, and also because 'brain golfing' is a funny combination of words. I figured most golfers could relate. I doubt I‚Äôm the only person who brain golfs." ¬† 2) Dec. 2, 2010: ‚ÄúOld Johannsen‚Äù Courtesy of Scott Adams"Wally is the worst employee of all time, but he‚Äôs likeable in his own way, so we enjoy seeing him get a win at the expense of the pointy-haired boss. And I think everyone who has a boss also dreams of becoming indispensable. It‚Äôs easy to relate to Wally‚Äôs glee in the third panel." ¬† 1) Nov. 9, 1993: ‚ÄúUnix programmers‚Äù¬†Courtesy of Scott Adams "This might be my all-time favorite Dilbert comic. When I was on the speaking circuit I always used it to end my talks to thunderous laughter. It‚Äôs naughty, clever, and it has a point of view. And it makes the reader imagine what happened before that moment shown in the comic and what might happen after. It‚Äôs rare to pack so many elements in one comic."

A new Business Insider-SurveyMonkey Audience poll†has found that Americans know shockingly little about the budget, federal deficits and major top line economic indicators.† We asked about 500 respondents to write in an estimate of several different statistics, including jobs statistics.† A majority of respondents did know the unemployment rate is down over the past year,†from 8.1% in August of 2012 to 7.3% in August of 2013.†Still, 28% thought unemployment was up and another 16% thought it was unchanged. Walter Hickey / BI, Data via Surveymonkey Audience But here's where it gets weird.† We also asked them to estimate how many jobs were added in the past 12 months.† In the past twelve months,†the U.S. has added 2.2 million jobs. And even though most respondents knew that unemployment has gone down, the average estimated number of jobs added was a mere 305,000. Here's how badly people misunderstand this.† When President Obama gives speeches on the economy, he repeatedly cites figures on how many jobs have been created during his administration. The message doesn't seem to be getting through.
Bitcoin's creation myth is great ñ an unknown computer whiz operating under the handle of "Satoshi Nakamoto" pulled together math, computer science, and financial-market literacy to create the powerful crypto-currency now used to buy everything from illegal drugs to new cars. We met with a plugged in source at the Money2020 conference in Las Vegas this week who requested not to be identified, and he's a bit cynical toward the anonymous digital currency. "Bitcoin has everyone's attention not because they want a new currency, but because they want a religion," he said. The parallels: Bitcoin has its invisible figurehead, its outspoken evangelists, and its feisty detractors. It can be harnessed for good just as it can be used for "bad." "To look at Bitcoin as merely a currency is to miss the point. Because it solves the famous double-spend problem ñ you can't send the same bitcoin to two different recipients just like you can't spend the same dollar twice ñ there are incredible opportunities to use it as a means of verifying identity, not just for moving money. The 'killer Bitcoin app' has yet to arrive." Our source isn't necessarily referring to a killer smartphone app, but to real-world applications of Bitcoin technology in all kinds of fields. He elaborated on how one could hypothetically use Bitcoin protocols to conduct a presidential election, for example. Non-replicable data could very easily confirm a voter's identity and prevent any fraud or foul play. This is an echo of a sentiment we heard earlier in the conference ñ the state of Bitcoin today is comparable to the Web in its infancy. Functional and useful, but far from perfected.†
Only 28% of Americans view the Republican Party favorably, the lowest mark for either party in Gallup polling dating back to 1992, when they started asking that question. The latest Gallup survey, taken amid an ongoing federal government shutdown for which most have blamed Republicans so far, plunges the GOP's favorability levels 10 points from where they were in September. More than six in 10 Americans (62%) now view the Republican Party unfavorably, also a record-high in Gallup polling. The previous low for the GOP came in 1999, when only 31% of people viewed the party favorably. That was during the impeachment proceedings of President Clinton. Democrats have a more measured favorable-to-unfavorable split at 43-49. The 43% favorability level is down four points from last month. And President Barack Obama's approval rating stands at 44%, compared with 51% who disapprove. Here's a chart of the historical trend: Gallup In addition to the government shutdown, the two parties are also locked in a debate over raising the nation's borrowing limit. Obama and the Treasury Department have repeatedly warned that a failure to raise the debt ceiling could lead to default and disastrous economic consequences. "The Republican Party is clearly taking a bigger political hit from Americans thus far in the unfolding saga, with 28% rating the GOP favorably ‚Äî a loss of 10 points from only a month ago," Gallup editor-in-chief Frank Newport wrote.  "This contrasts with previous Gallup findings from just before the government shutdown showing the Republican Party¬†making up ground¬†on a few key issues. Thus, the Republican Party's current strategy in the fiscal debates may not be paying dividends."
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidMeredith WhitneyMeredith Whitney has started a hedge fund called Kenbelle Capital LP, Bloomberg reports. Whitney is famous for her accurate bearish call on Citigroup in 2007, but since then some of her calls haven't panned out ‚Äî like her assertion that municipal governments would go bankrupt. Now it seems like she's switching strategies. In August Whitney unregistered the brokerage¬† part of her advisory firm, Meredith Whitney Advisory Group. From Bloomberg: Whitney started the advisory business amid media coverage including a Fortune cover story crowning her ‚Äúthe woman who called Wall Street‚Äôs meltdown.‚Äù Her broker-dealer‚Äôs Securities and Exchange Commission filings list no revenue in the past three years and about $96,000 of expenses. The unit was inactive last year outside of maintaining compliance and ‚Äúintroducing its services to the market,‚Äù according to the most recent report. Now records show that she is chief investment officer and managing principal a Kenbelle, a long/short equity fund. This comes after months of people wondering what was going on with Whitney. In July the WSJ reported that she was losing clients and spending a lot of time in Bermuda (where Kenbelle is based). At that time, the word that she was starting a hedge fund was just that ‚Äî a word. Now it's real.
APIt looks like House Republicans are preparing to move a short-term debt ceiling increase that would provide a framework for negotiations with President Barack Obama, according to multiple reports.† National Review's Robert Costa is reporting†that the "real debate" within House GOP leadership is when ó not whether ó to bring a six-week debt ceiling extension to the floor.†† Just met w/ leadership sources: real debate in GOP/on floor today is *when* to bring 6wk DL ext to floor and how Leadership does not want default, wants to buy time, but wants (most) members to rally behind a plan before they move DL bill The key movement could come sometime early next week, brushing up against an Oct. 17 deadline to raise the debt ceiling. That's when ó if there's still no clear path forward ó members could push for a solution.† There could be a surprising source of support for this option, however. Conservative commentator and RedState editor-in-chief Erick Erickson†advocated a short-term increase so that the focus would shift back to the right's effort to defund Obamacare.† According to the Huffington Post, Heritage Action and FreedomWorks also backed away from a debt ceiling fight on Wednesday, citing their wish to put focus back to the government-funding fight. A group of 18 House Republicans are meeting with President Barack Obama at the White House on Thursday†amid the†ongoing debates on funding the government and raising the nation's debt ceiling. The federal†government shutdown entered into its ninth full day on Wednesday, with no immediate end in sight. And Congress needs to†raise the debt ceiling by Oct. 17†ó eight days away ó to avoid a potential default.
Alex Davies / Business InsiderBy the end of 2013, Bombardier should be ready to put its latest private jet, the Learjet 85, into the air for the first time. About a year after that, if all goes well, deliveries will begin. But those who can't wait to get on board the largest, tallest, widest Learjet ever, will have to go through Flexjet.¬† The fractional private jet company is the first, exclusive customer for the $20.8 million Learjet 85. Over five years, the company will take delivery of 30 of the planes. Flexjet customers can charter single flights, buy a "jet card" that works like a debit card, or purchase a fractional ownership. A 1/16 share of the Learjet 85, good for 50 hours in the air per year for five years, runs for $1.1 million.
REUTERS/Mike SegarWhitney TilsonHedge fund manager Whitney Tilson, who runs Kase Capital, is crushing it on his latest short position, but he's not going to cover, yet. Last month, Tilson revealed that he's short K12, Inc, a for-profit education company (you can check out his presentation on the company here). The stock fell more than 38% today after the company lowered its revenue guidance.¬† Tilson said at the Value Investing Congress last month that K12 Inc. reminds him of subprime housing.¬† "K12 reminds me of the subprime mortgage lenders and for-profit colleges when they were flying high ‚Äì and the ending will be similar I believe." On Monday night, Tilson said he met the CEO of K12, Ron Packard. He said they talked for 4 1/2 hours and that he likes the CEO, too.¬† He also said that he's not covering his short position, yet. ¬† Here's the email he sent out to one of his listservs:¬† Forrest Gump: My momma always said, "Life was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get." That line came to mind as I was thinking about the wild turn of events the last few days vis-√†-vis K12. The stock is down 37% today and has been cut in half since I went public with my concerns about the company (and my funds‚Äô short position) three weeks ago (the latest version of my presentation is postedhere). But let me start the story two days ago:¬†on Monday¬†night, I went to a dinner hosted Mayor Bloomberg at Gracie Mansion for folks attending the Education Nation conference that was going on earlier this week in NYC. It was a great event with lots of my friends there, including Jeanne Allen ‚Äì the first time I‚Äôd seen her since our¬†back¬†and¬†forth¬†early last week. We had a nice chat and even got our picture taken (with Eva Moskowitz) in case anyone thinks there are any hard feelings between us: And then she said, ‚ÄúYou know Ron Packard [the founder and CEO of K12] is here. Let me introduce you.‚Äù In light of what I‚Äôve said and written very publicly about him and his company in the last three weeks, I feared an ugly confrontation so I demurred. Those of you who know Jeanne, however, know that she‚Äôs very persistent so not long afterward, as I was talking to some other friends, she came over with Ron and introduced us. We shook hands and he said he‚Äôd read my presentation and thought I got some things wrong. I said I‚Äôd love to hear what and we started talking. And talking and talking... Somebody gave a speech ‚Äì and we kept talking. Then some performers sang ‚Äì and we moved to the side of the tent and kept talking. The party ended, everyone left, the crew folded up all the tables, and the clock struck¬†midnight¬†(3 ¬Ω hours later) ‚Äì and we kept talking. We figured they were going to kick us out, so we left and walked a few blocks up to the corner of 88thand Lex ‚Äì and kept talking. Finally, at about¬†12:45am, my worried wife called me and said, ‚ÄúWhere are you?!‚Äù I said, ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre never going to believe who I‚Äôm standing here talking to‚Ä¶‚Äù So after 4 ¬Ω hours, we both hopped into cabs and went our respective ways. I have been shorting stocks for over a decade and have gone public with my short thesis on a handful of occasions and, as a result, have been sued, deposed, subpoenaed and investigated (there are good reasons why very few short sellers ever speak publicly) ‚Äì but I can‚Äôt recall the CEO of a company I‚Äôm short being willing to engage in a lengthy, frank conversation like Ron and I had¬†on Monday. (My only similar experience was when Reed Hastings¬†published a response¬†to my article in December 2010 in which I detailed why I was short Netflix at that time; after the stock collapsed, I went long it and still hold it ‚Äì it‚Äôs been one of my best investments ever.) I want to respect the privacy of our conversation, so I‚Äôm not going to detail what Ron said, but do want share some of my thoughts. First, I liked Ron. I found him very personable, I think he honestly believed everything he said to me, he didn‚Äôt get angry or defensive when I pushed him on some pretty tough stuff I‚Äôve heard and written about K12, and we have a lot in common: early in our careers, he was at McKinsey and I was at BCG; we‚Äôre both interested in stock picking (long and short); and of course we‚Äôre both passionate about improving and reforming education and the role technology can play. I think Ron is an incredible visionary and entrepreneur, and he‚Äôs built an important and innovative company. I now see that there‚Äôs a lot of good in K12. Before I met Ron, I thought he and the other leaders of K12 were deliberately targeting and enrolling kids they knew were certain to fail in order to maximize their revenue, run their stock price up, and make a few more millions for themselves. I no longer believe this about Ron. I think he wants to do right by kids and that, if given the option of taking a student he knew wouldn‚Äôt be successful at a K12 school, but would be highly profitable for the company, he wouldn‚Äôt want that student. He believes ‚Äì and I think he‚Äôs right ‚Äì that there‚Äôs lots of room for the company to grow for a long time serving only students who will benefit from a K12 school. So I don‚Äôt think there was ever a meeting at K12 in which the company decided to pursue maximum growth at any cost, even if it resulted in a lot of kids enrolling who were highly likely to fail and suffer a major educational setback. Yet even if it wasn‚Äôt intended, that‚Äôs exactly what I‚Äôm convinced is happening right now for a meaningful percentage of K12‚Äôs students (I‚Äôve heard estimates as high as 85%, based on the very low number of K12 students who are demonstrating proficiency). I think that a number years ago (coinciding, not coincidentally, with the company going public in late 2007), K12, in balancing its desire for growth vs. doing right by kids, let that balance get way out of whack. I‚Äôve seen it happen at countless companies ‚Äì the board and management team get on a treadmill of scrambling to meet analyst expectations every quarter, they start to think (albeit perhaps subconsciously) that it‚Äôs their job to keep the stock price up, and they start doing all sorts of unnatural, short-term-oriented, unethical and, in the worst case, illegal things to keep the game going. Fueling this is the genuine passion Ron and others at K12 have for online education. They have a missionary‚Äôs zeal to make it available to the world, which is great, but I also think that blinds them to the reality (as I see it) that a full-time online school is a terrible educational option for the majority of students, especially at-risk ones. Thus, I think it‚Äôs incumbent upon K12 to do its absolute level best to enroll only those students for whom one of its schools is the best option. Ron said that K12 is already taking steps to ensure this (and perhaps the tepid FY 2014 guidance the company issued last night in part reflects this), but I‚Äôm 100% certain that there‚Äôs a lot more that K12 can and should be doing.¬† ¬†So with the stock down so much, am I covering my short? In a word: No. In light of yesterday‚Äôs guidance (which, while below expectations, still showed enrollment growth of 5.7% year over year), I don‚Äôt think K12 has come to grips with the reality that it doesn‚Äôt just need to slow its growth, but must actually shrink its enrollment ‚Äì and not by a little, but by a lot ‚Äì to weed out the students who are not appropriate for a full-time online school and thus are not engaging or succeeding. Instead, my read of K12‚Äôs press release yesterday is that it‚Äôs doing what most companies in this situation do ‚Äì deny reality, rip the Band Aid off slowly, and prolong the pain. What K12 really needs to do is come clean with all of its stakeholders (investors, employees, regulators, legislators, etc.) and say something like: While we didn‚Äôt intend to do so, we grew too fast in recent years, resulting in many students enrolling in K12 schools who shouldn‚Äôt have. That‚Äôs not only obviously bad for those kids, but is also bad for us in the long run. Consequently, going forward, we are going to focus 100% on improving its academic outcomes, both by doing everything we can to ensure that only kids who are well positioned to succeed in a full-time online school enroll, and also by investing heavily to better serve our increasing number of at-risk students. If K12 did this, for sure its revenues and profits would fall in the next year or two and the stock would get hit (again), but I‚Äôm convinced that the company would be far more valuable in the long run. Look at what‚Äôs happened to Netflix‚Äôs stock since it stopped trying to be profitable, and look at Amazon since its inception ‚Äì it‚Äôs basically never been profitable! Investors don‚Äôt care about near-term profits as long as they‚Äôre convinced that the company is a growing market leader that, once it matures, will be highly profitable down the road (sometimes even very far down the road). Once K12 takes these steps, I will cover my short ‚Äì and might even go long the stock!
Bloomberg TVPresident Barack Obama nominates Janet Yellen for Federal Reserve Vice Chair, October 9, 2013.It's day nine of the government shutdown. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Lots of folks on Twitter have noticed that Janet Yellen, at her nomination to the Fed chair today, sported that unmistakable face of someone who has just reached the pinnacle of their career and of life. AP Photo/Charles Dharapak
Flickr/TobyotterWhether he realizes it or not, Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) called for the adoption of my fiscal proposal in the Wall Street Journal yesterday.Since I put forward my own plan for a "grand bargain" on fiscal policy last week, I've had a lot of people tell me it's a nonstarter¬†‚Äî but relatively few tell me that they, personally, wouldn't take the deal. I'm pretty sure I've found the only way to break the impasse in Washington and make our government work again. I was struck to see that my plan meets all the major specifications that House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) laid out in his Wall Street Journal op-ed last night, describing the deal Republicans want: Here's the key insight behind my plan. We haven't gotten a "grand bargain" because Republicans will not raise taxes. A grand bargain will only happen once Democrats come up with a way to do it without raising taxes. A lot of Democrats think this year's fiscal cliff deal showed that Republicans can be cornered into backing a tax increase. They're wrong. Republicans agreed to a tax-increasing deal because they were trapped by the law and had no option that didn't involve a tax increase. If taxes aren't already scheduled to go up without congressional action, Republicans will block any grand bargain that raises taxes. Democrats usually say that a grand bargain has to raise taxes. This has turned almost into a psychodrama. Democrats don't just want higher taxes, they want Republicans to admit that higher taxes are necessary for the long term fiscal outlook. That's a failure of creativity. The public debt is scheduled to stabilize over the next 10 years as a share of the economy, and we don't need a lot more deficit reduction. In that environment, aren't there any other deficit reducing measures that liberals really like, that they could take in lieu of a tax increase? I can think of at least two. Comprehensive immigration reform would reduce the deficit by about $200 billion over 10 years. A Medicare-based public option in the Obamacare exchanges would save about $150 billion. Liberals often advocate these ideas, but never as part of fiscal negotiations. Why? Aren't they even better for serving progressive goals than a tax increase on the rich? If the grand bargain includes those two measures, the resulting $350 billion in deficit reduction creates room for tax reform to achieve both Democratic goals (increased progressivity, middle-class tax relief) and Republican goals (lower tax rates, less revenue). Would Republicans go for immigration reform and a public option? I think they might. A lot of parts of the Republican establishment, including Ryan, already favor immigration reform on its own terms. It would look even better if they got other polices they want in exchange. Republicans strongly dislike the public option, but they'd be getting something major in return: Medicare reform that increases the private role in that program. Effectively, Medicare and Obamacare would become programs offering similar public and private insurance products at different levels of subsidy. Either side can spin this as an advancement of their ideological agenda. And that last part is the key.¬†If we get a four- to six-week delay of the debt ceiling and a temporary reopening of the government, both sides will be looking for a way to save face and cut a deal they can call a win. My plan offers that. Speaker John Boehner has presided over a shambles of a legislative body for the last three years. He would probably like to have some actual conservative policy accomplishments to show for his efforts, and my plan would give him three: Medicare reform, the repeal of almost all Obamacare taxes, and a much higher child credit. President Obama would like to do something other than lurch from fiscal crisis to fiscal crisis; this plan would finally establish some bipartisan agreement over fiscal policy and allow him to focus on other things. And it would get Republicans to buy into the idea that Obamacare is sticking around. My plan might sound crazy. But it's not as crazy as what we're doing right now.
Lauren Brenner is a former New York stock broker who now runs the New York fitness studio Pure Power Boot Camp (PPBC). A couple of years ago, two of Brenner's employees opened a rival fitness studio 15 blocks away. The new studio didn't just imitate PPBC's military-style workouts, the employees were also found guilty of stealing PPBC's customer records, business plan information, and other documents. In 2011, they were ordered by a U.S. judge to pay PPBC $246,000. While Brenner was duking it out in court, negative reviews started showing up PPBC's Yelp page. Then, even more strangely, Brenner says her business's name on Yelp page was altered to say "puke Power Boot camp." Yelp is the hugely popular website used by millions of consumers to rate customer service and find recommendations for everything from restaurants to doctors. Brenner was convinced the reviews were fake, particularly because the names used on the reviews didn't match any of her customer's names, she told Business Insider. Yelp uses a computer algorithm to sniff out fake reviews, good or bad. If the algorithm flags the review as fishy, those reviews get filtered, tucked out of immediate sight, and are not included in its five-star rating system, Yelp spokesperson Kristen Whisenand says. In this case, Brenner claims her reviews were not flagged. Brenner says she contacted Yelp to explain the legal situation, and ask that they remove the negative reviews. She also had her lawyer send multiple letters to Yelp. (Business Insider reviewed the emails and letters sent to Yelp.) But, according to Brenner, the negative reviews stayed and more appeared. Yelp's†Whisenand says that calling and emailing the company is not the best way to get it to look at questionable reviews. Business owners can click on a little red flag in the bottom-right corner of every review. Flag it and Yelp will manually read the review. If they determine the review violates the Yelp's terms of service, they will delete it. This includes using hate language or "biased" reviews such as favorable reviews written by employees, or unfavorable reviews written by competitors. In Pure Power's case, nine flagged reviews were at some point removed,†Whisenand says, though some of the reviews that Brenner questioned remained and Brenner continued to have her lawyer contact Yelp about them. Lauren BrennerThen someone told Brenner that her company name on Yelp had been changed to "puke Power Boot camp." (See screen shot.) Brenner claims she tried to log into her account to change it back and was locked out. She contacted Yelp and shortly after that, a Yelp advertising rep contacted her and asked if she wanted to advertise, Brenner says. She refused and asked him to correct her company's name. He said he was locked out too but he would have someone call her back, according to Brenner. No one called, says Brenner. For four days Brenner says she reached out to Yelp about the name and then called the police, the FBI cybercrime division, and reporter Charles Bennett at the New York Post. The reporter, Bennett, contacted Yelp's PR team and within a few hours, her name was fixed. Yelp tells Business Insider that her name was changed to "puke" by a system error: We're disappointed that there was an error within our user ops team software causing that content entry mix up and we fixed it as soon as we were able to verify the error. Anyone can suggest changes to Yelp's business listings, like names or addresses, Whisenand says. Someone had tried to change this company's name to "Purepowerbootcamp," all one word. The change was reviewed and rejected as inaccurate. But instead of keeping the correct name, Yelp then changed the name to a previously rejected name, submitted by someone years ago: "puke Power Boot Camp," Whisenand explained to us. Whisenand didn't share information on who submitted these names to Yelp. Whisenand also tells us: Our review recommendation engine does not take into account a business's advertising status. Sales people cannot remove or manipulate reviews on behalf of advertisers and [they] do not make that claim. This incident happened in January and since then Brenner has been vigilant about monitoring Yelp, flagging negative reviews and even responding to some of them. But she's still furious. This is an extreme story. It isn't typical that a business owner who's been battling it out with Yelp over negative reviews discovers its name changed to something offensive. However, as of last year, 685 small business owners have filed complaints with the FTC against Yelp. (The validity of those complaints has not been verified.) Similar accusations led to a flurry of lawsuits, most of which were ultimately dismissed. Yelp told us: Suits and allegations to the contrary have been dismissed and debunked but conspiracy theories are easy promulgated by folks who disagree with our efforts to serve consumers and local businesses. Whisenand believes that most business owners' issues with Yelp are due to confusion about the way Yelp works. She said some business owners are trying to game Yelp by asking customers to write positive reviews or even by paying illicit positive-review-writing services. When Yelp doesn't post those positive reviews but does post the negative ones, merchants think it's because they are not Yelp advertisers, she said.
REUTERS/Alvin Baez A pedestrian passes a closed shop with a for sale sign outside, along Paseo de Diego in San Juan's Rio Piedras district, September 3, 2013.Things are bad in Detroit. But they're even worse in Puerto Rico. The island's economy, which is heavily dependent on tourism, has been hammered by the drop-off in U.S. discretionary spending in the post-financial crisis era. We recently told you how residents have been leaving the country in droves.†The territory's unemployment rate is more than 13%. Now, the yield on the Puerto Rican 5-year note has climbed to a staggering 9.4%. At this point, most entities in this situation would be contemplating filing for bankruptcy. But Puerto Rico is not ó because it cannot. As the New York Times' Mary Williams Walsh notes, Puerto Rico is treated like a state, which also are not eligible for Chapter 9 protection.† The pension fund of the Northern Mariana Islands†tried this last year ó and failed. A judge ruled that as a†ìgovernmental unitî it was explicitly barred from filing for protection under Chapter 11, which applies to corporations. (The NMI's lawyers themselves decided the territory was not eligible for Chapter 9, the bankruptcy statute Detroit and all cities and counties fall under.) † † So some kind of bailout may be imminent,†the president of the Puerto Rican Senate, Eduardo Bhatia, told Williams Walsh: ì[The administration is]†wondering how they can help Puerto Rico send a very strong signal of stability right now...We are waiting for some sort of an announcement from the Treasury and the White House,î Bhatia said without clarification. † The Treasury Department referred our request for comment to the White House, which did not respond.† The island has $70 billion-worth of bonds outstanding ó nearly 4-times as much as Detroit ó because investors love the notes' tax-free status.†Bloomberg's Michelle Kaske†says†77% of muni-bond mutual funds hold Puerto Rican debt. But the investors have begun freezing Puerto Rico out of the bond market, Williams Walsh says.† At this point, they are waiting to see whether austerity measures passed by Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla's administration, including a new corporate tax, a broader sales tax, and greater employee contributions to benefits, will pay off,†Puerto Rico's Nuevo Dia reports. "There's a little time left, but not much," Janney managing director Alan Schankel told the paper.
The biggest headfake for investors of the entire year occurred on September 18th when the FOMC shocked The Street with its No Taper decision. Virtually no one expected it and the initial reaction that day was a massive, high octane rally across the entire spectrum of risk assets. But it was a false move, it represented the peak of the summer rally. I'm in the¬†Good News is Good News¬†camp and I wasn't thrilled to see the Fed undermining what little confidence existed by punting on their first chance to take us out of the psychological red zone. Good luck producing true animal spirits and confidence when you can't even reduce monthly bond purchases by even a fraction. Here's how asset classes have fared since that supposedly "good" news came out: ¬† Any trader will tell you that rallies don't end because of bad news. They end because good news is not reacted to the way you'd expect and people begin to scratch their heads and rethink things. I'll give you another example - last night the news went out that the dovish Janet Yellen was official for the Fed chairmanship. Markets are selling off on that "good news" as well. Of course, the shutdown certainly isn't helping matters much either.
White HousePresident Obama nominates Janet Yellen for Federal Reserve chairwoman, October 9, 2013. Last night, the White House announced that it would nominate Federal Reserve vice chairwoman Janet Yellen to replace Fed chairman Ben Bernanke when his term expires in January. Yellen was widely seen as the frontrunner to receive the nomination ‚Äî especially after her chief opponent for the job, former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, withdrew his name from contention in September. She will be the first female Fed head, and given her "dovish" tendencies ‚Äî meaning she tends to focus more on employment and less on inflation ‚Äî economists and market participants mostly expect her to continue the policies of her predecessor. Yellen is expected to be easily confirmed in the Senate. During his nomination speech this afternoon, President Obama praised Yellen, calling her a strong leader and highlighting the warnings she gave of a credit bubble in 2007. Obama then turned the mic over to Yellen. "I am honored and humbled by the faith you've placed in me," she said to Obama. "The past six years have been tumultuous for the economy and challenging for many Americans," said Yellen. She acknowledged that while many were still struggling, progress has also been made on making the financial system safer. Here's Yellen's full statement: Statement by Federal Reserve Board Vice Chair Janet L. Yellen: Thank you, Mr. President, I am honored and humbled by the faith you have placed in me. If confirmed by the Senate, I pledge to do my utmost to keep that trust and meet the great responsibilities that Congress has entrusted to the Federal Reserve--to promote maximum employment, stable prices, and a strong and stable financial system. I'd also like to thank my spouse, George, and my son, Robert. I couldn't imagine taking on this new challenge without their love and support.¬† The past six years have been tumultuous for the economy and challenging for many Americans. While I think we all agree, Mr. President, that more needs to be done to strengthen this recovery, particularly for those hardest hit by the Great Recession, we have made progress. The economy is stronger and the financial system sounder. As you said, Mr. President, considerable credit for that goes to Chairman Bernanke for his wise, courageous, and skillful leadership. It has been my privilege to serve with him and learn from him. While we have made progress, we have farther to go. The mandate of the Federal Reserve is to serve all the American people, and too many Americans still can't find a job and worry how they will pay their bills and provide for their families. The Federal Reserve can help, if it does its job effectively. We can help ensure that everyone has the opportunity to work hard and build a better life. We can ensure that inflation remains in check and doesn't undermine the benefits of a growing economy. We can and must safeguard the financial system.¬† The Fed has powerful tools to influence the economy and the financial system, but I believe its greatest strength rests in its capacity to approach important decisions with expertise and objectivity, to vigorously debate diverse views, and then to unite behind its response. The Fed's effectiveness depends on the commitment, ingenuity, and integrity of the Fed staff and my fellow policymakers. They serve America with great dedication.¬† Mr. President, thank you for giving me this opportunity to continue serving the Federal Reserve and carrying out its important work on behalf of the American people.
The Waltons are the richest family in America. The descendants of Wal-Mart founder Sam Walton, the family controls more than 50% of the Wal-Mart Corporation, according to Bloomberg, and combined are worth at least $150 billion based on Forbes' wealth estimates. Four†Walton family members are currently in the top 10 on Forbes' list of the richest Americans. They have spent some of their money amassing huge collections of art, real estate, and expensive cars. They also invest a portion of their fortune into charity, mainly through the Walton Family Foundation. But unlike some of today's millionaires who plan to donate most of their vast wealth to charity, the Waltons have used tax loopholes to keep getting richer. Bloomberg's Zachary Mider recently wrote about how the Waltons have used estate tax loopholes to maintain their fortune. Specifically, they have done so by setting up so-called "Jackie O." trusts, which are ostensibly for charity, but can also be used to pass on money tax-free to heirs after a period of time. Mider explains: "With a big enough spread between the actual performance and the IRS rate, a Jackie O. trust can theoretically save so much tax that it leaves a family richer than if it hadnít given a dime to charity." But despite the backlash, lawsuits, and the occasional scandal, Wal-Mart's first family isn't going anywhere ó especially when 90% of Americans live within 15 miles of one of the gigantic chain's stores. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider
APPresident Barack Obama will meet with a delegation of 18 Republicans at the White House Thursday, in what will be the most significant meeting between the two parties in the ongoing debates on funding the government and raising the nation's debt ceiling. Brendan Buck, a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner, said that the Speaker will send 18 "negotiators" to the meeting.¬† The meeting comes amid glimmers of hope for a short-term deal¬†that would end the government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling while establishing a negotiating panel on fiscal issues.¬† Buck said that the White House invited the entire Republican conference to the White House, but the Speaker decided it would be more prudent to send a select group of elected leaders and committee chairs. "Nine days into a government shutdown and a week away from breaching the debt ceiling, a meeting is only worthwhile if it is focused on finding a solution," Buck said in a statement. "That‚Äôs why the House Republican Conference will instead be represented by a smaller group of negotiators, including the elected leadership and certain committee chairmen. It is our hope that this will be a constructive meeting and that the president finally recognizes Americans expect their leaders to be able to sit down and resolve their differences." In a statement shortly after Boehner's office announced the meeting, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney blasted Boehner for not sending his full conference. ‚ÄúPresident Obama is disappointed that Speaker Boehner is preventing his members from coming to the White House," Carney said in a statement. "The President thought it was important to talk directly with the members who forced this economic crisis on the country about how the shutdown and a failure to pay the country‚Äôs bills could devastate the economy. The President will talk to anyone anytime and looks forward to their visit to the White House, but will not¬†pay the Republicans ransom for doing their job. If the Republicans want to have a real discussion they should open the government and take the threat of default off the table." The federal¬†government shutdown entered into its ninth full day on Wednesday, with no immediate end in sight. And Congress needs to¬†raise the debt ceiling by Oct. 17¬†‚Äî eight days away ‚Äî to avoid a potential default. Here's the full list of Republican participants:
Google FinanceStocks aren't doing much during the moments after the Federal Reserve released the minutes of its September Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. Basically there were no surprises. Fed members debated over the decision to taper, but ultimately they decided not too. "In their discussion of monetary policy for the period ahead, members reviewed the degree of improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions since the asset purchase program began a year ago and judged that, taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment, the improvement was consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy," they said. "However, all members but one judged that it would be appropriate for the Committee to await more evidence that progress would be sustained before ad- justing the pace of asset purchases." On Tuesday evening, the White House announced the President Obama would announce the nomination of Janet Yellen for Federal Reserve Chair. The nomination of a dovish Fed Chair and the removal of uncertainty gave the markets a brief bounce. But that bounce was short-lived.
REUTERS/US Federal ReserveNew U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke (R) joins the Board of Governors attending the Federal Open Market Committee meeting in Washington, March 28, 2006. The minutes from the FOMC's September 17-18 meeting are out. Members of the Federal Reserve's monetary policymaking body saw financial conditions as tighter and a risk from "sizable increases in interest rates," but most members still saw tapering of quantitative easing happening later this year. On September 18, the FOMC shocked markets by refraining from beginning to taper back its quantitative easing program ‚Äî something that was widely expected across Wall Street. "We have never heard investors as angry as the day after the Fed decided to not taper its asset buying program,"¬†said BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris. "Some investors argue that it was a deliberate attempt to introduce volatility into the market. Others said Fed credibility is shot." Below are the two key paragraphs: Committee members saw the information received over the intermeeting period as suggesting that economic activity was expanding at a moderate pace. Some indicators of labor market conditions showed further improvement in recent months, but the unemployment rate remained elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector was strengthening, but mortgage rates had risen further and fiscal policy was restraining growth. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth would pick up from its recent pace, resulting in a gradual decline in the unemployment rate toward levels consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. Members generally continued to see the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished, on net, since last fall, but indicated that the tightening of financial conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow the pace of improvement in the economy and labor market. Apart from fluctuations due to changes in energy prices, inflation was running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations were stable, and the Committee anticipated that inflation would move back toward its objective over the medium term. Members recognized, however, that inflation persistently below the Committee's 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance. In their discussion of monetary policy for the period ahead, members reviewed the degree of improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions since the asset purchase program began a year ago and judged that, taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment, the improvement was consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy. However, all members but one judged that it would be appropriate for the Committee to await more evidence that progress would be sustained before adjusting the pace of asset purchases. In the view of one member, the progress to date in labor markets and in broader economic conditions amply supported a reduction in purchases. During the exchange of views on whether to trim the flow of asset purchases at this meeting, a number of members emphasized the contingent and data-dependent nature of the Committee's purchase program. In light of the mixed data recently, including inflation readings that remained below the Committee's longer-run objective, and the concerns over near-term fiscal uncertainties, some members indicated that they preferred to await more evidence that their expectation of continuing improvement would be realized. But with financial markets appearing to expect a reduction in purchases at this meeting, concerns were raised about the effectiveness of FOMC communications if the Committee did not take that step. For several members, the various considerations made the decision to maintain an unchanged pace of asset purchases at this meeting a relatively close call. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee decided to continue adding policy accommodation by purchasing additional MBS at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month and to maintain its existing reinvestment policies. In addition, the Committee reaffirmed its intention to keep the target federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and retained its forward guidance that it anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. The full text of the minutes is below. ---------------------------------------- A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, September 17, 2013, at 1:00 p.m. and continued on Wednesday, September 18, 2013, at 8:30 a.m. PRESENT: Ben Bernanke, ChairmanWilliam C. Dudley, Vice ChairmanJames BullardCharles L. EvansEsther L. GeorgeJerome H. PowellEric RosengrenJeremy C. SteinDaniel K. TarulloJanet L. Yellen Christine Cumming, Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, Sandra Pianalto, and Charles I. Plosser, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee Jeffrey M. Lacker, Dennis P. Lockhart, and John C. Williams, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively Deborah J. Danker, Deputy SecretaryMatthew M. Luecke, Assistant SecretaryDavid W. Skidmore, Assistant SecretaryMichelle A. Smith, Assistant SecretaryScott G. Alvarez, General CounselSteven B. Kamin, EconomistDavid W. Wilcox, Economist Thomas A. Connors, Troy Davig, Michael P. Leahy, Stephen A. Meyer, Geoffrey Tootell, Christopher J. Waller, and William Wascher, Associate Economists Simon Potter, Manager, System Open Market Account Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors Nellie Liang, Director, Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, Board of Governors James A. Clouse and William Nelson, Deputy Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Jon W. Faust, Special Adviser to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Ellen E. Meade and Joyce K. Zickler, Senior Advisers, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Eric M. Engen, Michael T. Kiley, Thomas Laubach, David E. Lebow, and Michael G. Palumbo, Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; Fabio M. Natalucci, Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Joshua Gallin, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Jeremy B. Rudd, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Christopher J. Gust and Elizabeth Klee, Section Chiefs, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Gordon Werkema, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago David Altig, Loretta J. Mester, and Harvey Rosenblum,1 Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Philadelphia, and Dallas, respectively Joyce Hansen, Evan F. Koenig, Spencer Krane, Lorie K. Logan, Mark E. Schweitzer, John A. Weinberg, and Kei-Mu Yi, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Dallas, Chicago, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, and Minneapolis, respectively Chris Burke and Jonathan P. McCarthy, Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Bank of New York Eric T. Swanson, Senior Research Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet The Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as the System open market operations during the period since the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) met on July 30-31, 2013. The review included a report that the System's purchases of longer-term assets did not appear to have had an adverse effect on the functioning of the markets for Treasury securities or agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS), and that the Open Market Desk's operations in both sectors had proceeded smoothly. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. In support of the Committee's longer-run planning for improvements in the implementation of monetary policy, the staff presented an update on the potential for establishing a fixed-rate, full-allotment overnight reverse repurchase agreement (RRP) facility. The presentation summarized initial discussions with financial market firms about how such a facility might affect money market interest rates and intermediation flows, what the relationship might be between the facility rate and other money market rates, and how the different types of firms might view the facility. Overall, the inquiries suggested that the facility could be an effective additional tool for managing money market interest rates and helping to support a floor on those rates. Meeting participants discussed the potential role for an overnight RRP facility, the possible effects on the functioning of the federal funds market or the structure of money markets, and the usefulness of expanding the Desk's test operations in RRPs. Meeting participants generally supported a proposal to authorize the Desk to conduct a limited exercise in order to provide some insight into the potential usage of an overnight RRP facility as well as additional experience with operational aspects of such a facility. One participant, however, preferred that further analysis be undertaken before proceeding with the exercise. A number of meeting participants emphasized that their interest in these operations reflected an ongoing effort to improve the technical execution of policy and did not signal any change in the Committee's views about policy going forward. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously approved the following resolution: "The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to conduct a series of fixed-rate, overnight reverse repurchase operations involving U.S. Government securities, and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States, for the purpose of assessing operational readiness. The reverse repurchase operations authorized by this resolution shall be (i) offered at a fixed rate that may vary from zero to five basis points, (ii) offered at up to a capped allotment per counterparty of $1 billion per day and (iii) for an overnight term, or such longer term as is warranted to accommodate weekend, holiday, and similar trading conventions. The System Open Market Account Manager will inform the FOMC in advance of the terms of the planned operations. These operations may be announced when authorized by the Chairman, may begin when authorized by the Chairman on or after September 23, 2013, and shall be authorized through the FOMC meeting that ends on January 29, 2014." Staff Review of the Economic Situation The information reviewed for the September 17-18 meeting suggested that economic activity continued to increase at a moderate rate. Private-sector employment rose further in July and August, but the unemployment rate was still elevated. Total consumer price inflation picked up in recent months but continued to be modest, and measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable. Private nonfarm employment continued to expand in July and August, but at a somewhat slower pace than in the first half of the year, while total government employment edged down on balance. The unemployment rate declined further to 7.3 percent in August. The labor force participation rate also decreased, leaving the employment-to-population ratio essentially unchanged in recent months. Other indicators of labor market activity also were mixed. Measures of firms' hiring plans moved up, initial claims for unemployment insurance declined, and the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons decreased a little. However, household expectations of the labor market situation deteriorated somewhat, rates of job openings and gross private-sector hiring were little changed, on net, and the rate of long-duration unemployment rose slightly. Manufacturing production increased in August after a decline in July, and the rate of manufacturing capacity utilization was unchanged, on balance, over those two months. Automakers' schedules indicated that the pace of motor vehicle assemblies would remain roughly flat in the coming months, but broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the readings on new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, pointed to moderate increases in factory output in the near term. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) were flat in July. In August, nominal retail sales, excluding those at motor vehicle and parts outlets, edged up, while sales of light motor vehicles rose notably. Recent information on key factors that influence consumer spending were mixed: Households' net worth likely expanded further as home prices posted additional gains through July, but real disposable incomes increased only a little in July and consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers moved lower in August and early September. Improvements in housing-sector activity appeared to slow, possibly reflecting the rise in mortgage rates since the spring. Starts and permits of new single-family homes moved down in July, but the level of permit issuance was still somewhat above that for starts and pointed to moderate increases in construction in subsequent months. In the multifamily sector, both starts and permits rose in July but construction remained around the same level as early in the year. Sales of existing homes increased, but new home sales declined. Growth in real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property products appeared to be subdued going into the third quarter. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft declined again in July. However, nominal new orders for these capital goods continued to be above the level of shipments, pointing to increases in shipments in subsequent months, and other forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions, were consistent with moderate gains in spending for business equipment in the near term. Nominal business expenditures for nonresidential construction increased in July but were still at a low level. Recent book-value data for inventory-sales ratios, along with readings on inventories from national and regional manufacturing surveys, did not point to significant inventory imbalances. Reductions in real federal government purchases appeared to persist: Defense spending continued to decrease in July and August, while federal employment edged down further. Real state and local government purchases looked to be about flat--the payrolls of these governments expanded slightly, on balance, in July and August, and state and local construction expenditures seemed to be leveling off. The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed substantially in June before widening in July to a level near its second-quarter average. Exports expanded in June, with particular strength in industrial supplies and capital goods, before stepping down somewhat in July. Imports fell in June but then largely recovered in July, driven by swings in imports of oil and consumer goods. Total U.S. inflation, as measured by the PCE price index through July and by the consumer price index through August, was about 1-1/2 percent over the preceding 12-month period for each series. Consumer food prices only edged up in July and August, while energy prices were little changed, on net, over those two months, and retail gasoline prices moved down in the first half of September. Core consumer price inflation, which excludes food and energy, was modest in July and August. Both near-term and longer-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey were little changed in August and early September. Measures of labor compensation indicated that increases in nominal wages were still subdued. Both compensation per hour and unit labor costs in the nonfarm business sector rose modestly over the year ending in the second quarter, as there were only slight gains in productivity. In July and August, increases in average hourly earnings for all employees were fairly slow on balance. Average foreign economic growth remained muted in the first half of the year, although there were some notable divergences across countries. Growth in real gross domestic product (GDP) picked up in the second quarter in the United Kingdom and remained strong in Japan, recent data suggested that the euro-area economy was coming out of recession, and economic indicators were positive for China and several other emerging market economies (EMEs) in Asia. However, real GDP fell in the second quarter in Mexico and decelerated notably in India. Foreign inflation was generally subdued. Monetary policy remained highly accommodative in the advanced economies, but some EME central banks moved toward tighter monetary policy in the face of capital outflows and depreciation pressures. An exception was the Bank of Mexico, which cut its policy rate in response to economic weakness. Staff Review of the Financial Situation Longer-term interest rates rose over the intermeeting period, while equity prices were fairly volatile but ended the period modestly higher. The move in interest rates appeared to be importantly influenced by shifting expectations about monetary policy. The path of the federal funds rate implied by financial market quotes steepened notably during the period, in part reflecting some increase in uncertainty about the outlook for monetary policy as indicated by option-implied measures of uncertainty about the future path of the policy rate. In contrast to market-based quotes, the results from the Desk's September survey of primary dealers showed little change in the projected path of the policy rate relative to that in the July survey. However, the survey also suggested that primary dealers marked up somewhat the odds that the FOMC would begin to cut the pace of asset purchases at its September meeting, a result generally in line with other surveys of market participants. Five- and 10-year Treasury yields increased about 25 basis points over the intermeeting period. Yields on corporate bonds, agency MBS, and Treasury inflation-protected securities rose about in line with those on nominal Treasury securities. Conditions in short-term dollar funding markets were generally stable during the period since the July FOMC meeting. Responses to the September Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms suggested little change over the preceding three months in the credit terms applicable to most classes of counterparties covered by the survey. A moderate net fraction of respondents reported a decline in the use of financial leverage by hedge funds, and a more substantial net fraction reported a decrease in financial leverage used by real estate investment trusts. In response to special questions in the survey, dealers indicated that, during the period of heightened volatility beginning in May and extending into early July, liquidity and functioning had deteriorated in a number of fixed-income markets. Stock prices for financial-sector firms underperformed the broad equity market somewhat over the intermeeting period. However, spreads on credit default swaps (CDS) for the largest bank holding companies remained stable at levels near the bottom of their range over the past few years. Credit flows to nonfinancial businesses remained solid in the face of higher longer-term interest rates. Relative to the typical summer lull, gross issuance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans was robust in August; commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) loans on banks' books continued to expand moderately, on average, in July and August. Commercial real estate (CRE) loans at banks accelerated over the summer, and issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities remained strong despite slightly wider spreads on those securities. Recent information about household credit was mixed. Mortgage rates increased further over the intermeeting period, and credit standards for mortgage loans remained tight. Nonetheless, applications for new mortgages declined only modestly, apparently supported by improvements in labor market conditions and some pent-up demand. Higher mortgage rates weighed more heavily on applications to refinance existing mortgages, which decreased significantly. The pace of home price appreciation moderated a bit in July, although it was still strong. In nonmortgage credit, automobile loans and student loans both continued to expand rapidly, while balances on revolving consumer credit stayed about flat. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities remained robust in July and August. In the municipal bond market, despite the ongoing bankruptcy proceedings for Detroit and greater scrutiny of Puerto Rico's fiscal problems, broader market sentiment was reportedly supported by the lessening in budget pressures for many other state and local governments. Gross issuance of long-term municipal bonds was solid in August, and yield ratios on general-obligation municipal bonds over comparable Treasury securities were about unchanged, on balance, over the intermeeting period. Bank credit declined in July and August amid the general rise in longer-term interest rates. While banks' holdings of assets with longer duration, such as residential mortgages, decreased, growth in C&amp;I, CRE, and automobile loans--which are more likely to have floating interest rates or relatively short maturities, and therefore less duration risk--tended to hold up in recent months. M2 increased significantly in July and August, as the selloff in fixed-income markets that began in May, along with the associated outflows from bond funds, likely continued to support reallocations into liquid M2 assets. The monetary base continued to expand rapidly, primarily reflecting the rise in reserve balances resulting from the Federal Reserve's asset purchases. Against a backdrop of higher interest rates in the advanced economies and slowing economic growth in the EMEs, several EME currencies came under downward pressure in August; yields and CDS premiums on EME sovereign debt increased, particularly for those economies experiencing sharp currency depreciations; and investors continued to decrease their holdings in EME mutual funds. In response, some EME authorities took actions to support their currencies, including tightening monetary policy, modifying capital controls, and purchasing their currencies in foreign exchange markets. On net over the period, the dollar ended little changed on a trade-weighted basis against a broad set of currencies, but it appreciated notably against the currencies of India, Indonesia, and Turkey. Equity prices in Germany increased substantially and sovereign yields in the United Kingdom and Germany continued to rise as data on economic activity in Europe generally improved over the period, while yield spreads of Spanish and Italian sovereign securities relative to German government debt declined a bit further. The staff reported on potential risks to financial stability, including those highlighted by the rise in yields and volatility on longer-term fixed-income securities since the spring. The increase in yields appeared to reduce investors' appetite for taking duration risk, but if a significant volume of bond investors moved to sell at a future time, issues surrounding dealer capacity and willingness to make markets in volatile conditions could again amplify price movements. On balance, the vulnerability of the financial system appeared moderate, as loss-absorbing capital had increased and the reliance on short-term funding and the exposure of financial institutions to nonfinancial credit risk had decreased. Nonetheless, a number of potential shocks could prove challenging to markets and institutions, including a failure to raise the U.S. federal debt limit, financial instability in EMEs, and geopolitical events in the Middle East. Staff Economic Outlook In the economic forecast prepared by the staff for the September FOMC meeting, the projection for real GDP growth in the second half of this year was revised down a little from the one prepared for the previous meeting. The staff's forecast for real GDP over the medium term also was revised down somewhat, reflecting higher projected paths for both longer-term interest rates and the foreign exchange value of the dollar, along with slightly lower projected paths for equity and home prices. The staff still anticipated that the pace of expansion in real GDP this year would only moderately exceed the growth rate of potential output but continued to forecast that real GDP would accelerate in 2014 and 2015, supported by an eventual easing in the effects of fiscal policy restraint on economic growth, increases in consumer and business sentiment, further improvements in credit availability and financial conditions, and accommodative monetary policy. In 2016, real GDP growth was projected to begin to edge down toward the growth rate of potential output. Over the projection period, the expansion in economic activity was anticipated to slowly reduce the slack in labor and product markets, and the unemployment rate was expected to decline gradually. The staff's forecast for inflation was little changed from the projection prepared for the previous FOMC meeting. In the near term, the staff continued to project that inflation would be modest in the second half of this year but higher than the readings posted in the first half. Over the medium term, with longer-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, changes in commodity and import prices expected to be modest, and resource slack persisting over most of the projection period, inflation was forecast to be subdued through 2016. The staff viewed the uncertainty around the forecast for economic activity as similar to its normal level over the past 20 years. However, the risks were viewed as skewed to the downside, reflecting concerns about the economic effects of the recent tightening in U.S. financial market conditions, the resolution of federal fiscal policy issues in the coming months, the economic and financial stresses in the EMEs, and the ability of the U.S. economy to weather potential future adverse shocks. The staff did not see the uncertainty around its outlook for inflation as unusually high, and the risks were viewed as balanced. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic Outlook In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, meeting participants--5 members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks, all of whom participated in the deliberations--submitted their assessments of real output growth, the unemployment rate, inflation, and the target federal funds rate for each year from 2013 through 2016 and over the longer run, under each participant's judgment of appropriate monetary policy. The longer-run projections represent each participant's assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge, over time, under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the economy. These economic projections and policy assessments are described in the Summary of Economic Projections (SEP), which is attached as an addendum to these minutes. In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants regarded the information received during the intermeeting period as indicating that economic activity had continued to expand at a moderate pace, albeit somewhat more slowly than earlier anticipated, and they generally indicated that the broad contours of the outlook further out had not changed materially since their July meeting. Participants continued to project the rate of growth of economic activity to strengthen over coming years, supported by highly accommodative monetary policy and the gradual abatement of the headwinds that have been slowing the pace of economic recovery, such as household-sector deleveraging, tight credit conditions for some households and businesses, and fiscal restraint. Accordingly, the unemployment rate was projected to continue to decline over time toward levels judged to be consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. While downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market were generally viewed as having diminished, on balance, since last fall, a number of significant risks remained, including those related to the potential economic effects of the sizable increases in interest rates since the spring, ongoing fiscal drag, and the possible fallout from near-term fiscal debates. Inflation continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective, apart from fluctuations that largely reflected changes in energy prices, and participants generally saw it as moving back gradually to 2 percent in the medium term. In the household sector, consumer spending continued to advance, but incoming data on retail sales were somewhat weaker than expected. Auto sales, however, remained strong, supported in part by steady interest rates on auto loans, which, unlike mortgage rates, did not rise substantially in recent months. Despite the continued improvement in household balance sheets, a number of factors were mentioned as possible restraints on spending, including declines in consumer confidence, concerns about job security and availability, and the lingering effects of this year's payroll tax increase. While the housing sector continued to strengthen, supported by improving fundamentals and gains in house prices, the increases in mortgage rates since the spring were seen as a potential risk. The extent to which the higher mortgage rates had materially affected that sector remained unclear, with the exception of the sharp decline in refinancing activity. But it was noted that recent softness in housing starts and home sales might well reflect some restraint from those higher rates. Business contacts in selected parts of the country were reported to be cautiously optimistic, consistent with encouraging responses to a number of business surveys. Nonetheless, uncertainties regarding the outlook for the economy and fiscal and regulatory policies were reportedly continuing to weigh on business decisionmaking, with firms focused on improving their balance sheets and enhancing productivity and still quite cautious about expanding their workforces. Reports on manufacturing activity pointed to some rebound, with production related to autos the most notable area of strength, and activity in the energy sector continued to expand at a steady pace. In the agricultural sector, farmland values increased further, even though farm income was reported to be declining. Some business contacts indicated that wage and price pressures were subdued; however, in one District, contacts pointed to rising wage pressures and labor shortages. Participants discussed the extent to which the ongoing tightening in fiscal policy was likely to further restrain economic activity in the second half of this year, with one participant noting that the effects of the federal sequestration appeared to be less pronounced than previously anticipated. However, a number of others pointed to heightened uncertainty about the course of federal fiscal policy over coming months, including the potential for a government shutdown or strains related to the debt ceiling debate, which posed downside risks to the economic outlook. In discussing labor market developments, a number of participants indicated that gains in payrolls in the July and August employment reports were disappointing, but one participant also noted that seasonal adjustment tended to be challenging during the summer months. Taking a range of data into account, participants generally agreed that labor market conditions had improved meaningfully since the start of the asset purchase program in September 2012. Participants discussed how to reconcile the notable decline in the unemployment rate over the past year with the only moderate pace of expansion in real GDP. One possible explanation was that, to the extent the decline in the unemployment rate was primarily driven by a fall in the labor force participation rate and low productivity growth, such a decline might overstate the degree of improvement in broader labor market conditions. Indeed, the continued low readings on the employment-to-population ratio were supportive of this explanation, suggesting that overall labor market conditions had not improved as much as the unemployment rate would indicate. An alternative explanation for the significant improvement in the labor market performance despite the moderate growth in real GDP over the past year was that growth had been understated somewhat; notably, some research suggested that real gross domestic income, which expanded at a somewhat faster pace than real GDP, may provide better information about overall economic activity. Despite recent declines in the unemployment rate, one participant noted the risk that the longer the duration of elevated unemployment, the more likely it was that the labor market and economy would experience some lasting structural damage. While judging the extent of structural damage continued to be quite difficult, one piece of evidence consistent with this view was the apparent decline in the job-finding rate of the long-term unemployed. Despite the reversal of some transitory factors that had contributed to the earlier softness in inflation, recent readings continued to be below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent. However, participants generally expected inflation to pick up over the coming year as the pace of economic growth accelerated and slack in resource utilization diminished further, although to a rate still below the Committee's longer-run objective. Participants discussed financial market developments, including their views on the extent to which the rise in longer-term interest rates since May reflected growing confidence about the economic outlook or a perception by financial markets that monetary policy would be less accommodative going forward than had been previously anticipated. Several participants judged that overall financial conditions had tightened notably over the past few months, as seen most importantly in the rise in mortgage rates. While acknowledging that it was too early to assess the effects of such an increase, they expressed concerns that tighter financial conditions might weigh on the recovery in the housing sector. A few others observed that the increase in longer-term yields in recent months had not seemed to leave a meaningful imprint on other asset prices, suggesting that the effects on the economy were likely to be relatively muted. While recognizing the potentially significant impact of higher mortgage rates on the housing market, these same participants pointed to higher equity prices, the further gradual loosening of terms in bank lending, and the continued availability of credit at inexpensive terms in corporate debt markets as signs that financial conditions more generally had not tightened materially. In any case, however, the assessment of the adverse effects of the increase in longer-term rates on financial conditions and ultimately on economic activity would depend importantly upon the extent to which rates stabilized at current levels or instead continued to rise. Participants also touched on the implications for financial stability resulting from the increase in interest rates, focusing on the effects on securities held by banking and other nonbank institutions, the unwinding of leveraged trades, and the liquidity and functioning of a number of fixed-income markets. One participant noted that, notwithstanding the recent rise in interest rates, net interest margins remained under pressure at community and regional banks, and as a result many of these banks continued to add to risk exposures. Another participant raised the possibility that financial stability risks might arise from recent adverse developments in municipal bond markets. It was also noted that financial conditions in a number of EMEs had tightened as a result of some depreciation of their currencies, an increase in yields and borrowing costs, and some capital outflows as measured by withdrawals from bond funds. More broadly, a couple of participants noted the complexities related to the interaction between the stance of monetary policy and the vulnerabilities in the financial system. In their discussion of the path for monetary policy, participants debated the advantages and disadvantages of reducing the pace of the Committee's asset purchases at this meeting, focusing importantly on whether the conditions presented to the public in June for reducing the pace of asset purchases had yet been met. In general, those who preferred to maintain for now the pace of purchases viewed incoming data as having been on the disappointing side and, despite clear improvements in labor market conditions since the purchase program's inception in September 2012, were not yet adequately confident of continued progress. Many of these participants had revised down their forecasts for economic activity or pointed to near-term risks and uncertainties. For example, questions were raised about the effects on the housing sector and on the broader economy of the tightening in financial conditions in recent months, as well as about the considerable risks surrounding fiscal policy. Moreover, the announcement of a reduction in asset purchases at this meeting might trigger an additional, unwarranted tightening of financial conditions, perhaps because markets would read such an announcement as signaling the Committee's willingness, notwithstanding mixed recent data, to take an initial step toward exit from its highly accommodative policy. As a result of such concerns, a number of participants thought that risk-management considerations called for a cautious approach and that, in light of the ambiguous cast of recent readings on the economy, it would be prudent to await further evidence of progress before reducing the pace of asset purchases. Consistent with the framework discussed by the Chairman during the June press conference, asset purchases were contingent on the Committee's ongoing assessment of the economic outlook and were not on a preset course; this approach implied a need to adapt and to adjust asset purchases in response to changes in economic conditions in order to preserve the Committee's credibility. With many outside observers expecting a decision to reduce purchases at this meeting, some participants emphasized a need to clearly communicate the rationale behind any decision not to do so, in order to avoid conveying a message of pessimism regarding the economic outlook or to reinforce the distinction between decisions concerning the pace of purchases and those concerning the federal funds rate. One participant suggested that postponing the reduction in the pace of asset purchases would also allow time for the Committee to further discuss and to implement a clarification or strengthening of its forward guidance for the federal funds rate, which could temper the risk that a future downward adjustment in asset purchases would cause an undesirable tightening of financial conditions. The participants who spoke in favor of moderating the pace of securities purchases at this meeting also cited the incoming data, but viewed those data as broadly consistent with the Committee's outlook for the labor market at the time of the June FOMC meeting when the contingent expectation that the pace of asset purchases would be reduced later in the year was first presented to the public. Moreover, they highlighted what they saw as meaningful cumulative progress in labor market conditions since the purchase program began. Those participants generally were satisfied that investors had come to understand the data-dependent nature of the Committee's thinking about asset purchases, and, because they judged that the conditions laid out in June had been met, they believed that the credibility of the Committee would best be served by announcing a downward adjustment in asset purchases at this meeting. With the markets apparently viewing a cut in purchases as the most likely outcome, it was noted that the postponement of such an announcement to later in the year or beyond could have significant implications for the effectiveness of Committee communications. In particular, concerns were expressed that a delay could potentially undermine the credibility or predictability of monetary policy by, for example, increasing uncertainty about the Committee's reaction function and about its commitment to the forward guidance for the federal funds rate, with the result of an increase in volatility in financial markets. Moreover, maintaining the pace of purchases could be perceived as a sign that the FOMC had turned more pessimistic about the economic outlook. Finally, it was noted that if the Committee did not pare back its purchases in these circumstances, it might be difficult to explain a cut in coming months, absent clearly stronger data on the economy and a swift resolution of federal fiscal uncertainties. Most of the participants leaning toward a downward adjustment in the pace of asset purchases also indicated that they favored a relatively small reduction to signal the Committee's intention to proceed cautiously. With regard to adjustments in the pace of asset purchases, whether at this or a future meeting, a few participants expressed a preference for not cutting MBS purchases but reducing purchases only of Treasury securities initially, with the intent of continuing to support the recovery in the housing sector. However, the appeal of including both types of securities in any reduction was also mentioned. In addition, in an effort to reduce uncertainty about how the Committee might adjust its purchases in response to economic developments and to alleviate some of the related communications issues, one participant suggested an approach that would mechanically link the reduction in asset purchases to numerical values for the unemployment rate, with the goal of ending the program when the unemployment rate reached a stated level. Participants also discussed the potential for clarifying or strengthening the Committee's forward guidance for the federal funds rate. To the extent that financial markets have at times interpreted the Committee's communications regarding the asset purchase program as also signaling information about the federal funds rate target, participants thought it might be important to reiterate the distinction between the two, and a clarification or strengthening of the forward guidance might help to reinforce this message. In part toward this end, participants mentioned several possible steps that might be considered, including stating that the Committee would not raise its target for the federal funds rate if the inflation rate was expected to run below a given level or providing additional information on the Committee's intentions regarding the federal funds rate after the 6-1/2 percent unemployment threshold was reached. One participant stressed that the Committee could use the full range of its tools, including forward guidance, to further improve the alignment of the medium-term outlook for employment and inflation with its longer-term goals. In light of the importance of credibility for the effectiveness of the forward guidance for the federal funds rate, participants noted the possible implications of uncertainties related to the Federal Reserve leadership transition in considering the appropriate timing of any enhancements to the guidance. In discussing the projections for the target federal funds rate at the end of 2016 as reported in the SEP, some participants highlighted the importance of communicating to the public the reasons why the policy rates that were projected by most, but not all, participants appeared to remain at low levels even as the unemployment rate and inflation by then were expected to be close to their longer-run values. In particular, if economic headwinds died away only slowly, as a number of participants expected, the achievement of the Committee's employment and price stability objectives would likely require keeping the federal funds rate below its longer-run equilibrium value for some time even as economic conditions improved. In light of the potential difficulties in succinctly conveying this information in the Committee's policy statement, the Chairman's postmeeting press conference and the minutes were mentioned as more appropriate vehicles for providing this information. A couple of participants also remarked that they viewed their projections of a low federal funds rate in 2016 as reflecting a commitment to support the economy by maintaining a more accommodative policy for longer. Committee Policy Action Committee members saw the information received over the intermeeting period as suggesting that economic activity was expanding at a moderate pace. Some indicators of labor market conditions showed further improvement in recent months, but the unemployment rate remained elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector was strengthening, but mortgage rates had risen further and fiscal policy was restraining growth. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth would pick up from its recent pace, resulting in a gradual decline in the unemployment rate toward levels consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. Members generally continued to see the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished, on net, since last fall, but indicated that the tightening of financial conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow the pace of improvement in the economy and labor market. Apart from fluctuations due to changes in energy prices, inflation was running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations were stable, and the Committee anticipated that inflation would move back toward its objective over the medium term. Members recognized, however, that inflation persistently below the Committee's 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance. In their discussion of monetary policy for the period ahead, members reviewed the degree of improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions since the asset purchase program began a year ago and judged that, taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment, the improvement was consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy. However, all members but one judged that it would be appropriate for the Committee to await more evidence that progress would be sustained before adjusting the pace of asset purchases. In the view of one member, the progress to date in labor markets and in broader economic conditions amply supported a reduction in purchases. During the exchange of views on whether to trim the flow of asset purchases at this meeting, a number of members emphasized the contingent and data-dependent nature of the Committee's purchase program. In light of the mixed data recently, including inflation readings that remained below the Committee's longer-run objective, and the concerns over near-term fiscal uncertainties, some members indicated that they preferred to await more evidence that their expectation of continuing improvement would be realized. But with financial markets appearing to expect a reduction in purchases at this meeting, concerns were raised about the effectiveness of FOMC communications if the Committee did not take that step. For several members, the various considerations made the decision to maintain an unchanged pace of asset purchases at this meeting a relatively close call. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee decided to continue adding policy accommodation by purchasing additional MBS at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month and to maintain its existing reinvestment policies. In addition, the Committee reaffirmed its intention to keep the target federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and retained its forward guidance that it anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. Members also discussed the wording of the policy statement to be issued following the meeting. In addition to updating its description of the state of the economy, the Committee decided to underline its concern about the tightening of financial conditions observed in recent months. It also acknowledged the improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions since its asset purchase program began, while emphasizing that it was prepared to be patient and await more evidence that progress would be sustained before adjusting downward the pace of purchases. The Committee also adopted language to the effect that, in judging when to moderate the pace of asset purchases at its coming meetings, it would assess whether incoming information continued to support its expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and of inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective. Finally, the Committee reiterated the contingent nature of the outlook for asset purchases, indicating that asset purchases were not on a preset course and that the Committee's decisions about their pace would continue to depend on its economic outlook as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: "Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster maximum employment and price stability. In particular, the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain such conditions. The Desk is directed to continue purchasing longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of about $45 billion per month and to continue purchasing agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of about $40 billion per month. The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency mortgage-backed securities transactions. The Committee directs the Desk to maintain its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues and its policy of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability."The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:00 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in July suggests that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate pace. Some indicators of labor market conditions have shown further improvement in recent months, but the unemployment rate remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector has been strengthening, but mortgage rates have risen further and fiscal policy is restraining economic growth. Apart from fluctuations due to changes in energy prices, inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will pick up from its recent pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished, on net, since last fall, but the tightening of financial conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow the pace of improvement in the economy and labor market. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, but it anticipates that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. Taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment, the Committee sees the improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions since it began its asset purchase program a year ago as consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy. However, the Committee decided to await more evidence that progress will be sustained before adjusting the pace of its purchases. Accordingly, the Committee decided to continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. In judging when to moderate the pace of asset purchases, the Committee will, at its coming meetings, assess whether incoming information continues to support the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective. Asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's economic outlook as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent." Voting for this action: Ben Bernanke, William C. Dudley, James Bullard, Charles L. Evans, Jerome H. Powell, Eric Rosengren, Jeremy C. Stein, Daniel K. Tarullo, and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against this action: Esther L. George. Ms. George dissented because she saw recent information on the economy as sufficiently positive to warrant a reduction in the pace of the Committee's asset purchases at this meeting. In her view, waiting for more evidence of progress discounted the cumulative improvement in the economy as well as the potential costs of ongoing purchases. Accordingly, not only would a reduction be appropriate in light of the ongoing improvement in labor market conditions, but it also would support the credibility and predictability of monetary policy because it would be seen as following through on the Committee's earlier communications about the outlook for the asset purchase program. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, October 29-30, 2013. The meeting adjourned at 11:15 a.m. on September 18, 2013. Notation Vote By notation vote completed on August 20, 2013, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on July 30-31, 2013.
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderSome awesome road chow.I asked this question of Twitter last night, and I got a lot of smart answers in response. So I figured I would ask it here as well. Should companies really pay for everything their employees eat while the employees are traveling? After all, the employees would eat regardless, whether at home or on the road. So it's not instantly clear why their companies should pay for everything they eat while traveling. I have wondered about this frequently on my current trip, while handing over my credit card to charge things like tea, yogurt, sandwiches, and sushi to Business Insider. I would be eating some of those things anyway, even if I wasn't on a business trip. And if I ate/drank them at home, I wouldn't think of having Business Insider pay for them. Now, I do own a chunk of Business Insider, so whatever I ask the company to pay for comes back to me eventually anyway, at least in part. And I wouldn't dream of charging the company for something I didn't think it should pay for. But other companies I have worked for have always paid for everything I've eaten on the road, so I have never thought particularly deeply about this. So, what do you think? Keep handing over the corporate card to pay for everything you eat and drink on the road (within reason)? Or estimate how much more you are spending than you would be spending if you were eating at home and hit the company up for that? Or only charge the company for food/drink that is consumed while conducting company business that couldn't be conducted without the food? Folks on Twitter felt strongly about this one ‚Äî namely that companies should absolutely pay for what their employees eat on the road. And they had a lot of clear logic to support this view. For instance: Some folks did feel that the company should only pay when you're entertaining clients or something. And others suggested that I was only feeling the pain of having the company pay because I own part of the company. So, what do you think?¬†
Former billionaire tycoon Eike Batista could soon face off against repo men, according to Bloomberg. Over the last year and change, Batista has lost 99% of his fortune, as his commodities and logistics empire has crumbled under the weight of unmet expectations. OGX, Batista's oil and gas company, has been the worst performer of all his 6 companies. In fact, last week, Batista did not pay interest on the company's bonds due October 1st (OGX will officially be in default on the 30th), making creditors like PIMCO, the biggest bond firm in the world, very nervous. So it's no surprise that more of the company's creditors are considering taking possession of two of the OGX's oil barges as collateral for the money Batista owes them. From Bloomberg: Banks are talking to advisers and OSX officials to evaluate whether they should seize the platforms if oil-producing sister company goes into default, which would trigger cross-default clauses on OSX debt, said the people, asking not to be named as discussions are private. OSX borrowed $1.27 billion from 12 banks including Banco Santander SA and DVB Group Merchant Bank (Asia) Ltd. and is still negotiating to avoid filing for bankruptcy protection, one of the people said. Another reason why creditors may want to pick up a boat or two ‚Äî or refinance despite the fact that Batista's prospects look super bleak ‚Äî is that¬† Brazil ranks 143rd out of 185 economies when it comes to working out insolvencies in Court according to the World Bank. That means if Batista does go bust, it could be a while (years on years) before any creditors see any cash.
A new Business Insider-SurveyMonkey Audience poll†has found that Americans know shockingly little about the budget, federal deficits, and major top-line economic indicators.† We asked about 500 respondents to write in an estimate of several different statistics, including the U.S. deficit.† This year the Congressional Budget Office†expects it to be $642 billion, down from $1.087 trillion in 2012. That's the lowest it's been in five years.† Does America realize that? Nope. † Walter Hickey / BI, Data via Surveymonkey Audience But what's even weirder is that even though people think the deficit is actually getting bigger, they don't really know what the budget deficit is.† We asked them to estimate the annual budget deficit, which is $642 billion.† So, this is a difficult question, and we really can't knock people for getting it wrong.†What we can knock them for, however, is getting it wrong by multiple orders of magnitude.† If someone answered the question in the rage of hundreds of billions or trillions, they're probably in the right ballpark, or at least county.† Many people, alas, did not.†Most, it seems, actually significantly†underestimated†the U.S. budget deficit:† Walter Hickey / BI, Data via Surveymonkey Audience
There could be more than 47 million millionaires in the world by 2018, a 50% increase over the current number of millionaires, according to the¬†latest Credit Suisse Global Wealth Report. That number is expected to grow significantly among emerging economies, according to the report. The Asia-Pacific region could go from 5.2 million millionaires to 9 million, and China alone could nearly double its millionaire population in five years.¬† Growth in Brazil and Mexico could push Latin America to nearly 1 million millionaires in 2018. Here's the projection from Credit Suisse: Credit Suisse And these charts show how Credit Suisse projects wealth will be distributed globally and in China in 2018. Credit Suisse
Realty Guild Inc.Ivano Panetti, an investor at private equity firm Mercurio Capital, and his wife Cinzia are selling their Connecticut estate for $3.7 million, says the WSJ. And the coolest thing about it ‚Äî at least in our opinion ‚Äî is that the property is helicopter landing ready. Sure, five bedrooms, a pool, and 8.25 acres straddling the New York/Connecticut border is cool. But that just can't match being able to land your wings in your back yard. Nicole Steel of Realty Guild Incorporated has the listing.
JC Penney looks like the cheapest grab in the stock market right¬† now according "CAPE," a ratio used by serious value investors. But looks can be deceiving. Back in the 1930s when Ben Graham and David Dodd, the godfathers of value investing, wrote their famous book Security Analysis, they argued that to determine a company's earnings power, you had to look at previous earnings beyond one year. Then Yale economist Robert Schiller standardized that to ten years, and the cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings (CAPE) ratio was born. It's a pretty simple calculation ‚Äî just the price of the stock over the average earnings of a company over the last ten years. Right now, JC Penney has the lowest one in the S&amp;P 500 at 3.88, meaning it looks cheap, which should be a good thing ‚Äî a buy signal. But the way JC Penney looks right now is one of the biggest problems with CAPE that Wall Street value nerds have debated for years. Why? Because a company's past performance can't always accurately predict its future performance. See, if you divide JC Penney's low stock price by the last ten year's average earnings ‚Äî which will be relatively high, since JCP only started really taking a nose dive in the last year and some ‚Äî you're going to get a low number out of that P/E ratio. It's going to be a cheap number like 3.88. But as we know, most of those last ten years of earnings have very little to do with the dangerous cash crunch situation JC Penney is in right now. Even the most optimistic analysts expect earnings to be abysmal for quite a while if the company survives. As JC Penney's earnings stay below historic levels, the CAPE ratio will climb. It's simple math ‚Äî the denominator (earnings) divides the numerator (price) by less and less resulting in a higher number. But since it's still the average of 10 years, that denominator, will fall slowly (perhaps more slowly than the stock price). That means investors trying to get a sense of JC Penney's earnings power using CAPE may find out too late that past earnings don't always predict future earnings. By the time CAPE makes the stock look expensive, who knows where this whole story will be? Don't get caught in the value trap.
REUTERS/Yuriko NakaoHere they are: the most important charts in the world. We asked our favorite portfolio managers, strategists, analysts, and economists across the Street for the charts that they deem the most important right now, and this is what they sent us. A lot of the focus is on the stock market, as many consider it to be at a critical juncture. The withdrawal of Federal Reserve stimulus and attendant normalization of interest rates is also a hot topic ó as is the bloodbath in emerging markets ó while many are coming around to the notion that the American economy just can't grow like it used to anymore. But there are a lot of other things going on as well.
AP Photo/Mahesh Kumar A.Wal-Mart is breaking up with its Indian joint-venture partner, Bharti Enterprises. The American retailer¬†will buy out Bharti‚Äôs 50% stake, giving the US retailer 100% holding in the company that runs wholesale stores called Best Price Modern.¬† However, Wal-Mart will need to find another joint-venture partner to own 49% of the business if it wants to set up its own retail stores in India, according to regulations on foreign retailers instituted last year. The partnership between Wal-Mart and Bharti came about in 2007, but was expected to really take off this year after the Indian government relaxed rules on foreign direct investment, allowing foreign retailers to invest up to 51% in their own local operations. However the rules still remain fiercely protectionist, with foreign investors being forced to source up to 30% of their products from Indian small and medium producers. As of this year, no foreign brands have opted to take advantage of the loosening of regulations.¬† Scott Price, CEO of Walmart Asia, said the rules represented a "level playing field issue," according to the New York Times. Price criticized the rules because Indian retailers were not required to follow them. He also said the small and medium Indian enterprises did not have the capacity to produce on the scale that Walmart needed, to help it meet the government's sourcing mandate. India's finance minister, Pallaniapan Chidambaran, responded to Price's statements in an¬†interview with Reuters, saying, "We have liberalised FDI in single brand retail and multi-brand retail to the extent that we can. People have to accept this and decide whether they want to invest or not." The venture has also been surrounded by controversy, with Wal-Mart firing several workers due to violations of US anti-corruption laws. The retailer has also been under¬†investigation by the Indian government since December, for having allegedly violated the nation's rules on foreign investment in the retail sector.¬†The company is also carrying out an internal investigation on possible violations of U.S. anti-corruption laws in the country.¬†
According to the latest Credit Suisse Global Wealth Report, there are†98,700 "ultra high net worth" individuals in the world, defined as those with a net worth of over US$50 million. That number is up 14,200 from last year, and the report reasons that this shows that the world's economy is working out well for the ultra rich: While there is little reliable information on trends over time in the wealth pyramid data, it seems almost certain that wealth has been growing faster in the top strata of the wealth pyramid since at least the year 2000, and that this trend is continuing. For instance, total global wealth grew by 4.9% from mid-2012 to mid-2013, but the number of millionaires in the world grew by 6.1% during the same period, and the number of UHNW individuals rose by more than 10%. It therefore appears that the world economy remains conducive to the acquisition and preservation of large and medium sized fortunes. So where do this global elite ó very roughly the world's richest 0.001387015% ó live? Mostly in one country: Credit Suisse Correction: The percentage number was originally listed as 0.00001387015% due to a mathmatical error. It has since been corrected.
CNNSen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) argued Wednesday that failing to raise the debt ceiling would not inflict economic disaster ó he even said that the "managed catastrophe" of breaching the debt ceiling might be necessary." "The debt ceiling has never not been raised, so there is no debt ceiling," Coburn said on CNN's "New Day." "And by having a debt ceiling and then raising it every time, it allows the politicians off the hook for making the hard choices.†Iíd rather have a managed catastrophe now, which I donít think will be there." Treasury Secretary Jack Lew has said that Congress needs to raise the nation's $16.7 trillion borrowing limit by Oct. 17 ó next Thursday ó at which point the Treasury would only have about $30 billion cash on hand to meet all of its obligations. The Bipartisan Policy Center estimated that the U.S. will run out of money to meet all of its obligations somewhere between Oct. 22 and Nov. 1, risking a potential default. Coburn's long-held stance is that the debt ceiling provides an opportunity for politicians to make "hard choices." He also doesn't think breaching the debt ceiling risks potential default. On Tuesday, he made a symbolic show of cutting up a credit card ó which he analogized to the nation's credit card ó on the Senate floor. "Hereís the thing that all the media does ñ default equals not raising the debt ceiling. Thatís not true," Coburn said on CNN. "... Those are two different and distinct things. Iím not saying we shouldnít pay our bills. What Iím saying is we should put ourselves in the position where we have to start making hard choices now." Here's the clip:  
We can't help but get a little nervous when a Wall Street research arm starts using military metaphors to describe the state of the economy. "Conditions in Washington, DC are not improving, we see nascent signs of financial stress, and jitters are on the rise," wrote Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart and Ellen Zentner. "In week two of the government shutdown and debt ceiling standoff, we have raised our assessment to level 3 Econ DEFCON." When the assessment level is raised, the number is actually falling, which means things are getting more worrisome. Here's more from Reinhart and Zentner: For this exercise, we have chosen to use a 1-to-5 point scale. It seemed appropriate to borrow from another arbitrary risk assessment of cataclysm - NORAD's DEFCON. In our Econ DEFCON, a reading of 5 suggests everyone remains complacent about the outlook as there will be no meaningful fall-out from the stand-off. The warning level then ratchets up to 1, which signals our expectation of a significant disruption to the US economy. "Financial markets, businesses, and households remain on high alert as reflected in opinion polls, Internet searches, and yield moves at the front end of the Treasury curve," they added. Morgan Stanley
Despite some fairly high profile Q2 earnings misses from retailers in August (COH, M, RL, TGT &amp; WMT) the XRT and the XLY nearly matched and made new all-time highs respectively with the SPX in September. The commentary from financial pundits has been that the U.S. consumer is ìresilientî, despite sluggish job growth and a housing market that may be stalling. The reasons given for the resiliency are all forward looking, and largely to do with the continuation of accommodative Fed policy, which in my mind has always equated to very wishful thinking, especially at this stage of the recovery. I have often said to the readers of this site, look around you, ask your family, friends or co-workers, are they secure in their employment situation? Do they feel confident about their near term ability to make more money, despite working harder/longer? If they own a home, are they back to break-even after all of the improvements that they made? Have they participated in the stock market rally of the last few years or have they gotten shaken out at numerous occasions due to the volatility caused by the transitions in Fed QE and the multitude of geo-political events? I assume there are very few out there that just feel great. This morning the news for consumer stocks looks less than enthusiastic and does not paint a very pretty picture for Q3, courtesy of Bloomberg: I guess the positive takeaway is that the quarter just reported is already in the tank, and that downbeat forward guidance has the potential to set up for future beats. However, the main takeaway here is yes price is truth, but donít be fooled by the performance of ETFs, look at some of the influential underlying stocks, and what their managements are saying, and what the price action in the stocks are saying. YUM is a good example of a stock that has been a relative under-performer, despite spending the last year in shooting distance of new all time highs. Every quarter and every month during that time period they have had different reasons for comp sales misses here and in China. They have become very good at finding one off things to explain away disappointments. This ultimately amounts to a credibility problem in my mind. But again, the company in 2013 is on track to have its first earnings decline in more than 10 years and trades at above a market multiple and very rich to peers like MCD, sometimes it makes sense to look at the hard data and filter the noise. The most salient point, though, is that the market has shrugged off mediocre earnings for almost 2 years now, with hope driving stocks higher more than facts. If Q3 earnings season continues like this, then the cold, hard wall of facts might finally force investors to take off their rose-colored glasses and look at the reality of the situation.
APWithin a few weeks of the Oct. 17 deadline, the U.S. Treasury would presumably run out of cash and have to delay payments. So what would that actually mean for markets? In a recent note to clients, HSBC's Steven Major and Lawrence Dyer say that a delay wouldn't be all that bad for U.S. sovereign debt and those that hold it. "History suggests that the U.S. government will ultimately compensate investors for payment delays. The payment for a portion of the 26 April 1979 T-Bill was delayed for a few days and affected some retail investors," they write. "Ultimately, new legislation provided for payment to compensate holders for the interest due as a result of the delay." This time, a missed payment would push rating agencies to give U.S. sovereign debt a "selective default" (SD) rating. But, "we see important differences between a potential missed payment by the U.S. Treasury and the regular defaults that are part-and-parcel of the credit markets." From the note: It is a measure of how unusual the current situation is that those sovereigns that have been SD in the past have normally end up as sub-investment grade i.e. rated 'CCC+' to 'B.' However, in the current case, such an outcome would surely be a farcical situation for the rating business, when the world's largest and wealthiest country would be rated below those that are compared with it. If Treasury has to delay payments, Major and Dyer say bonds could be bifrucated into the "delayed" component and the "normal" component, and bonds without delayed payments could continue to be traded as usual. Essentially, there are mechanisms in place to subdue the "damage" of delayed payments, they argue. "If the delayed coupon is stripped from the rest of the bond (as it is owed to the holder of record), then the rest of the bond's cash flow looks like those of any other bond that has no coupon delay," Major and Dyer write. "The bond could continue to be traded as if there were no delay. The "impact of a U.S. Treasury payment delay on the U.S. bond market may well be a managed disruption, not a catastrophe," they conclude.
BG¬≥Photo via www.flickr.com creative commons Where are the workers who've seen the most growth in their paychecks in the past year? According to¬†Payscale's wage index, they live in San Francisco. The tech city has experienced the highest wage growth of any city in the U.S. over the past 12 months, with paychecks growing at a rate of 3.7%. While Silicon Valley is an important contributor to San Francisco's economy, tourism is its primary moneymaker. In fact, Pier 39 near the Fisherman‚Äôs Wharf is one of the most popular tourism spots to visit in the nation. Other cities with the most wage growth include Baltimore, with its world-class hospital systems, and Seattle, a city also known for its tourist attractions. Below are the cities Payscale tracks ranked by the rate of wage growth in the past year. The index tracks total cash compensation for full-time, private sector employees. PayscaleSouthern cities¬†Atlanta and Dallas were tied for fourth place for the most wage growth in the country. Atlanta is home to many renowned research institutions, including Georgia Tech and Emory, and Fortune 500 companies, including The Coca-Cola Company, UPS, and The Home Depot. Dallas is sometimes called the "Silicon Prairie" as a result of the many technology startups launched in the city in recent years. On the other end of Payscale's index, and perhaps surprisingly, urban meccas Los Angeles, New York, Miami, and Boston were among cities where wage growth is increasing at a slower rate than the national average of 1.7%.
The dedicated billionaire hunters over at Bloomberg have found themselves another whale. According to their calculations, Shutterstock CEO Jonathan Oringer is now a billionaire at age 39. He started the company back in 2003 by putting 30,000 of his own pictures online. Now the company sells images of anything and everything to 750,000 customers in 150 countries around the world. Last year, Shutterstock's revenue was up 117% to $47.5 million. Bloomberg calculates that Oringer's billion comes mainly from his 55% ownership of Shutterstock ó that's 18.5 million shares of the company. For the full run down, head over to Bloomberg&gt;&gt;
REUTERSMen's Wearhouse has rejected Jos. A. Bank's offer to buy the company for $2.3 billion, saying that the deal "significantly undervalues Men's Wearhouse." The merger would have created a men's apparel powerhouse and revived Men's Wearhouse, which has struggled since the ouster of founder George Zimmer in June, said Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategy at Belus Capital.† "Men's Wearhouse would be absolutely silly not to take the money and run," Sozzi said. "The company is not a growth retailer." It's clear that Jos. A. Bank is beating Men's Wearhouse in the fierce competition for customers.† Jos. A Bank's shares have gained more than 8% in the past six months, while Men's Wearhouse only gained 1.6%.† And while Men's Wearhouse reported a disappointing outlook for future months, Jos. A. Bank executives recently said that sales are increasing.† So what does Jos. A. Bank have that Men's Wearhouse doesn't?† Those infamous "buy one, get seven free" sales.† "Those promotions are why Jos. A. Bank is getting foot traffic that Men's Wearhouse isn't,"†Brian Pitera, a principal of consultancy at A.T. Kearney, told us last month. "To compete, Men's Wearhouse is going to have to step up promotions and advertising."† While Jos. A. Bank's promotions sound too good to be true, the brand actually manages to make money by selling the products at higher initial mark-ups than necessary. In other words, Jos. A. Bank builds the cost of free products into the one full-priced suit you purchase.† Sozzi said the deal might still happen.† "This was not so some fly by night, hastily put together deal," Sozzi said. "This is something that Jos A. Bank has clearly been working on for a while and they could sweeten the deal a bit."†
Wikimedia CommonsuIn case you hadn't noticed, relations between Russia and the Netherlands are weird at the moment. Take, for example, the news that came out of Russian media portal RBC today:†Russia is reportedly planning to ban the Dutchest of Dutch imports ó the tulips. According to the report, the Russian Federal Service for Veterinary and Phytosanitary Surveillance has not been satisfied with the tulips. "We have a lot of questions about the control control Dutch products," department spokesperson Alexey Alekseyenko explained. The department had earlier raised questions about the quality of Dutch milk. Even without knowing much about tulip quality, anyone who has been following world politics recently will recognize there may be something bigger at work here. Things have been tense between Holland and Russia since last month, when Russia seized a ship carrying a number of Greenpeace activists as it neared the Prirazlomnaya oil rig, an offshore Arctic Gazprom drilling platform. Thirty people of 18 different nationalities have since been charged with "piracy as part of an organized group," the Guardian reports, and if convicted, they face 10 to 15 years in prison. The Greenpeace ship was registered in the Netherlands and two Dutch citizens were on board. The Netherlands have taken a proactive role in the situation, launching a legal challenge to Russian authorities over the detention of the ship and its passengers. The situation has been complicated by the alleged beating this weekend of a Russian diplomat who was living in the Hague. According to Dutch media, police had arrived at the home of Dmitry Borodin, number two at the Russian embassy, after complaints from neighbors about the way that he was treating his children. At this point, things get murky. Russia claims that the men did not identify themselves and badly beat Borodin in front of his children. He was then reportedly taken to a police station in a violation of diplomatic rules established under the Vienna Convention. While the Dutch denied any serious assault on Borodin, Putin personally demanded an apology. Tulips are, however, very important to the Dutch: One figure says that they export around 2 billion tulips every year. Not long after the news about the proposed ban on Dutch tulips in Russia, the Netherlands acquiesced, and the Dutch Foreign Ministry acknowledged that Borodin's diplomatic status has been ignored when he was arrested. It'll be worth keeping an eye on what happens next between the two countries. Of<U+0427><U+0438><U+0442><U+0430><U+0442><U+044C> <U+043F><U+043E><U+043B><U+043D><U+043E><U+0441><U+0442><U+044C><U+044E>:http://top.rbc.ru/economics/09/10/2013/881334.shtml
Kristo K‰‰rmann's Twitter profile identifies him as "co-founder and CEO of†TransferWise, the Robin Hood of currency exchange." TransferWise is all about converting currency from one form to another, a process that pretty much always requires a bank's participation. That means a bank will take a percentage of the total transfer as commission and will even alter the conversion rates such that it earns money for itself in the process. In the currency-transfer world, the banks make their money coming and going. When†K‰‰rmann needed to buy some British pounds, he decided to go around the banks and teamed up with a friend in the U.K. who needed euros. K‰‰rmann sent his euros to the U.K., and his friend sent British pounds back to him.†It was a completely analog arrangement, sure, but†K‰‰rmann and his friend had full control of the process, and after carrying out this process a number of times over two years, they were able to save $15,000 in bank fees. So†K‰‰rmann pushed the idea further and formally co-founded TransferWise, a startup that helps automate transactions like the one above. The TransferWise web site allows people to create payment transfers in their own currency to TransferWise, which completes the transaction abroad with the person you're sending money to in local currency, without the usual commissions. The company uses an algorithm to match people with accounts in foreign countries who need to exchange money. The money isn't actually transferred ó rather, matching payments are paid out of the respective local banks. (There's an explanation of how this is done over on The Economist.) It's currency conversion that completely circumvents the banks, no foreign friendships required.† Firing on all cylinders as a proper startup for two and a half years now, the company has saved its customers $15 million in bank fees to date, K‰‰rmann says.
Tesla's stock is down 2.8% to $169.86, though it's unclear what is behind the sell-off. Yesterday it was reported that MPG Car Rental would offer Tesla Model S, only in Los Angeles.¬† Tesla has run into problems with powerful auto dealer lobby groups in the past that have been opposed to Tesla's decision to sell directly to customers. This is because typically, major automakers sell through franchised dealers. It is unclear if this decision to place Model S with a rental car dealership will complicate matters for Tesla. Here's a look at the two-day chart: Google Finance
I don't mean to be a fashion prude. I also love wearing shorts ‚Äî when it is appropriate to wear them.¬† But is it really appropriate to wear them when flying commercial? Two fellows in the security line ahead of me this morning at the San Francisco International Airport were wearing shorts (picture below). I won't go so far as to say I was appalled by this, but I did quietly hope that I wouldn't be sitting next to them. Why not? Well, frankly, because I didn't relish the thought of having their sweat and leg hair smeared all over my suit. And given that we will packed into our seats together like olives in an jar, it seemed highly likely that there was going to be some leg contact. Basically, it seemed to me that wearing shorts on a jammed commercial airliner ‚Äî the epitome of a shared frustrating social experience in which everyone should be on their most polite and respectful behavior ‚Äî was a bit selfish and rude. Agree? Disagree? Lighten up, you old prude? My future seatmates, ready for their day by the pool: Henry Blodget / Business Insider
On last night's "All In," MSNBC host Chris Hayes tried to†debunk the Republican talking point that raising the debt ceiling is akin to "maxing out the country's credit card." The common refrain ó one that the president has had to deal with during every major fiscal skirmish ó is that the country's debt can be easily compared to household debt. "Get this, this country has run a deficit in 45 of the last 50 years," Hayes says in the segment, "No household could get away with that, but then again, no household has the ability to print its own money either." "The debt limit, to quote President Kennedy, does not and cannot control expenditures, all blocking the debt ceiling does is send an incredibly dangerous signal to the world that the U.S. might not deserve to be the single most trusted borrower on earth." Watch the full clip:  Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
Wikimedia CommonsCaÔn by Henri Vidal, Tuileries Garden, Paris, 1896National Journal has a poll out today with the headline finding that "Most Americans don't understand the debt ceiling." All the poll actually teaches us is that whoever writes National Journal's poll questions doesn't understand the debt ceiling. Here's the question they asked: As far as you know, when Congress votes to increase the debt ceiling, do you think that means... The federal government is increasing the amount of money it borrows to pay for future expenditures (62%) The federal government is paying off the debts it has already accumulated (27%) The second answer, the one National Journal intends to be the "correct" response, is not correct at all! Raising the debt ceiling allows the federal government to incur more debt to pay bills it already agreed to pay. And the "wrong" answer that 62% of respondents gave is more or less true. When you raise the debt ceiling, that allows the federal government to keep borrowing money to pay for things like Social Security checks and employee salaries going forward. The point the president and Democrats repeatedly make about raising the debt limit is that it allows for payment of previously authorized expenses. Congress approved mandatory spending programs like Social Security, it wrote the tax code, and it periodically approves discretionary spending budgets. Those approvals create spending and revenue trajectories that prescribe how much money the government should borrow. If you don't raise the debt ceiling, the federal government ends up obligated to pay bills without a good way to raise the funds to pay them, and you get a payment crisis, which is bad. All that means that describing a debt limit increase as "increasing the amount of money the government borrows to pay for future expenditures" misses the point a bit. But it's still a way better description than saying it allows the government to pay off debt. Oy.
REUTERS/Price ChambersJanet YellenPresident Barack Obama's nomination of Janet Yellen to chair the Federal Reserve†could make a protracted fight over raising the nation's debt ceiling much more complicated, according to Chris Krueger, a D.C.-based analyst for Guggenheim Partners LLC. Krueger wrote in a market commentary Wednesday that if the two sides do hash out a deal that would extend that extends government funding and borrowing authority for the next few weeks, Yellen's confirmation process would add another fiscal wrinkle into the fray.† From the commentary: The announcement last night that Obama would nominate Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen to replace Fed Chair Ben Bernanke today at a†3 p.m.†White House event has only complicated the remainder of the month and likely next. Yellenís Banking Committee hearing probably would not be until the week of†October 21st†at the earliest with a Committee confirmation vote to follow.†We believe that she will be narrowly confirmed, though the timing of this announcement is very strange. Krueger thinks that Republicans will use the Yellen nomination during the shutdown and debt-ceiling debates to make it clear that Obama "owns" quantitative easing, the eventual taper, and more in monetary policy. He said that it's likely the two fiscal battles in Congress could last throughout Yellen's confirmation process. Here's Krueger: The hearing and subsequent Senate Floor debate will likely be used by Senate Republicans as a vehicle to debate and criticize Obamaís economic policies ñ both fiscal and monetary. There are 32 Senators that are new to the Senate since January 2010 (Bernankeís reconfirmation, which was the tightest on record), including likely Fed critics such as Sens. Rand Paul (R-KY) and Ted Cruz (R-TX), who have never seen a Fed Chairman nomination process.This is going to be a very public and very political spectacle in the wake of the†October 17†debt ceiling showdown ñ which is very likely to end in some version of a short-term kick the can, so we could well still be in a protracted shutdown and debt ceiling fight for the entire Yellen confirmation process.†
The only thing that may be more important than monetary policy itself is how it's communicated to the markets. For much of the year, the Federal Reserve has signalled that it would begin tapering its large-scale asset purchase program. Most economists expected the tapering to be announced at the September FOMC meeting. That didn't happen and the markets were shocked. Many blame Chairman Ben Bernanke for the communications failure. But it may actually be more appropriate to blame current Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen, who will be nominated for Fed Chair this afternoon. Yellen has acted as head of the FOMC's subcommittee on communications since 2010. Just a year ago, Yellen actually gave a huge speech and presentation titled "Revolution and Evolution in Central Bank Communications." "Perhaps Yellenís biggest challenge will be uniting the FOMC and tidying up its blurred policy message," said Capital Economics' Paul Dales. "Given that Yellen leads the Fedís subcommittee on communications, she must take some responsibility for the recent confusion." "As Chair, she will need to cajole the FOMC into providing clearer guidance on when and how fast the Fed will taper and when and how fast rates will rise," added Dales. "Since her first meeting as Chair wonít be until March, tapering may begin before she gets in the hot seat. That said, the longer the government shutdown lasts, the more likely that it will happen on her watch."

Since the start of the previous earnings season, Q2 earnings turned out to be $0.70 per share better than expected, while Q3 estimates were lowered by $0.89. This ritual is likely to continue, with actual Q3 results exceeding expectations while Q4 estimates are lowered. None of this matters very much unless the latest results cause industry analysts to significantly change their estimates for 2014 and 2015, which is very unlikely. Today's Morning Briefing: Itís Starting To Hurt. (1) The prioritization question. (2) Gallup poll shows plunging consumer confidence. (3) Shutdown already bad for some businesses. (4) Strengthening euro canít be good for Europe. (5) Bad timing and execution for Obamacareís IPO. (6) A curse on both their Houses. (7) They should soon feel our pain. (8) Stocks losing complacency and altitude. (9) A very ugly auction. (10) Weíve seen this scary movie before. (More for subscribers.) Dr. Ed's Blog
Getty ImagesThe consensus Wall Street view remains that, much like in 2011, the debt ceiling will get raised at the last minute. Surely politicians aren't dense enough to martyr the U.S. economy for political ends, the thought goes. And even though market analysts agree that a true default would be catastrophic, markets have been relatively complacent to the threat. But what Wall Street fails to realize, according to Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere, is the extent to which the Tea Party just doesn't care. Valliere wrote to clients this morning: We talked to Tea Party stalwarts last night, and tried to make our best arguments. "Don't you realize the Republicans could lose the House in 2014?" We don't care, they said. "Don't you worry about a catastrophic reaction in the financial markets?" We don't care, they said. "Don't you worry that the Democrats will aggressively play the Social Security card with seniors?" We don't care, they said. "This is the Alamo, it's Braveheart, battles to the death. These people are on a Mission from God," Valliere says. Still, he puts the odds of a default at 20% (up from his previous estimate of 10%).
Fort Hamilton High SchoolYellen edited the school paper. Where do Fed chairs come from? You could answer this a number of ways, but many come from the Tri-state area. Janet Yellen, whom President Obama will name as the next Chair of the Federal Reserve this afternoon, will be numbered among them, assuming she is confirmed by the Senate. Born in 1946, Yellen (who kept her name after she married) attended Fort Hamilton High School in the Bay Ridge neighborhood of†Brooklyn. † We tracked down two of her high school classmates to talk about what it was like growing up with her. "A classic '60s liberal," said Charles Saydah, a retired journalist who served with Yellen on the school paper (Yellen was editor in chief), and also ran in the same social circles. "She has†great faith in education as an answer to a lot of societal problems." Susan Grosart, a retired school committee chair in Massachusetts, said she met Yellen in 7th grade when they were both "special progress" students, a program that let gifted youngsters breeze through junior high in two years. Describing Yellen as "adventuresome," Grosart said they would attend Sunday afternoon concerts at Lincoln Center and ride the cyclone on Coney Island.†Fort Hamilton High School "Janet was pretty interested in everything." At the same time, she appears to have lacked, at least outwardly, the attitude one might associate with other famous baby†boomer Brooklynites. "She was quiet, she was imperturbable," Saydah said. "She never seemed to get openly excited about anything...a lot of us objected to things." He said he could have seen†her becoming a fellow journalist, and Grosart†described Yellen being enamored with English, as well as biology. Fort Hamilton High SchoolYellen with the Biology Research Class. But after one taste of economics, her fate was sealed. Grosart recalls seeing Yellen after they'd completed their first semester at collegeó Yellen attended Pembroke, the then-women's section of Brown University ó and she mentioned she'd taken an economics class. "She was like, on fire," Grosart said. "She just loved economics from the first minute she started studying it. She lectured me continually about different economic topics, and you could just tell she'd found her passion." @NYCSchoolsNYC Public SchoolBoth agreed her success was totally predictable.† Indeed, she was named a "Senior Celebrity" and "Class Scholar" her final year at Fort Hamilton.† "She was the kind of person you'd expect to do this sort of thing," he said. "I wouldn't say she was definitely going to be leading the Fed, but it's not surprising. There was something about her."
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidFrom Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus, a quick guide to what traders are chatting about this morning. Good Morning! ¬†US Futures higher by 40bp, but a weak ‚ÄúYellen Bounce‚Äù thus far given Markets have dropped 11 times in 14 trading sessions. ¬† 10YY off very small, Gold weaker, DXY stronger ‚Äì all telling you this was well expected. ¬†Nasdaq futures outperforming slightly as AAPL bid up 1% on chatter of a iPad update on Oct 22nd. ¬†The DAX is staging a small bounce, up only 22bp ‚Äì as Volumes remain light in Europe. ¬†The Yen has reversed recent strength, failing the 200dma as sparking a 1% gain in the Nikkei. ¬† China popped 60bp, led by Banks on Sept Loan data, The Nifty jumped 1.3% on better current account figures ‚Äì Aussie was quiet and EM Asia was mixed. ¬† Given the US Data Vacuum, the Fed minutes will be thoroughly scrutinized for Tapering clues, although the current DC Circus probably sidelines any tapering till 2014. ¬†Yesterday‚Äôs VIX volume was a record as 1.8mln contracts trading hands. ¬† VIX Calls outweighed puts by 2-1 as the S&amp;P is nearing major technical and sentimental support ‚Äì and a Tale of 2 earnings, YUM getting smacked, while AA is up over 3% The 10YY is off small, but more focus remains on the Halloween T-Bill Yielding 26bp, down 7bp overnight. ¬† We do have a $35B 5-day auction at 11:30, but focus is on the $21B 10Y auction at 1 (Given duration, should be quite smooth, unlike yesterday‚Äôs 1M auction) ‚Äì With the DXY surging, we have a headwind for commodities, and we are seeing Gold coming off 1%+, but Industrial commodities like Copper and Oil are outperforming the precious metals ‚Äì Last night, API reported a Heavy build in Crude Inventories ahead of DOE today amidst reports Iran is readying a proposal on their Nuclear program for the UN. House Republicans and Senate Democrats will be continuing down separate legislative paths Wednesday, as each chamber considers bills on separate fiscal crises ‚Äì GOP controlled House is expected to continue passing a series of small-ball spending plans for popular or important government program ‚Äì In the Senate, rather than considering new funding bills to open the government, Reid is beginning to put together legislation that would allow the Treasury greater borrowing authority to avoid breaching the so-called debt ceiling.
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithFederal Reserve Vice Chair Janet YellenGood morning! Here's what you need to know.¬†
REUTERSPresident Clinton is applauded by members of his White House staff engaged in budget negotiations in the White House Rose Garden (May 16, 1997). UPDATE: The U.S. Senate confirmed Janet Yellen to become the 15th chair of the Federal Reserve on Monday, Dec. 6, 2014. It's looking increasingly likely that Ben Bernanke will no longer be the Chairman of the Federal Reserve at this time next year. In an interview Monday, President Obama said Bernanke has¬†"already stayed a lot longer than he wanted or he was supposed to." When asked about his intentions regarding plans for the future, Bernanke has not said much, though the Fed chairman has decided to skip this year's Jackson Hole summit of world central bankers in August, where he would normally be responsible for delivering the keynote address. In recent years, the Jackson Hole keynote has been an important stage for signaling big shifts in U.S. monetary policy, a key driver of economic dynamics not only in America, but around the world. This year, the most important signal from the keynote may not be in the contents of the speech, but in who is delivering it in Bernanke's place: Federal Reserve Vice Chairwoman Janet Yellen, who is widely tipped as the frontrunner to replace Bernanke when his term expires in January. If Obama does select Yellen to replace Bernanke, she will become the first woman ever to chair the Federal Reserve, putting her in arguably the most powerful policy-making role in the world. And of course, unless you follow the Fed, you've probably never heard of her. (Global financial markets have reinforced the notion that the Fed chair is all-powerful in recent weeks: as fears that the Fed will begin slowing the pace of its monetary stimulus have seeped into the marketplace, U.S. government debt has sold off dramatically, causing major reverberations in virtually every market around the world. Because U.S. monetary policy is so influential, economist David Beckworth, for example,¬†has referred to the Fed as a "monetary superpower.") By every account, Yellen is a thoughtful and brilliant economist, which has allowed her to rise to where she is today. "Ms. Yellen climbed the Fed ranks by being methodical rather than iconoclastic," writes Wall Street Journal reporter Jon Hilsenrath in a recent profile of the Fed vice-chairman. "She shows up at policy meetings with carefully crafted statements. Those who work with her say she arrives at the airport hours early." "[Yellen]¬†is very low-key, but impresses people quickly with the depth of her understanding and the sincerity of her views," said fellow Berkeley professor Andrew Rose¬†in 1994, describing her as "collegial, persuasive and effective." She has also worked with the academic elite of the economics sphere her entire career. Her mentor at Yale, where she received her Ph.D. in 1971, was Nobel-Prize winning economist James Tobin, whose legacy is enshrined in today's economics textbooks.¬†After graduating from Yale, she taught at Harvard for five years.¬†Then, she did a two-year stint (1976-1978) as a staff economist at the Federal Reserve, where she met her husband, fellow economist and future Nobel Prize winner George Akerlof. After the Federal Reserve, Yellen was faculty at the London School of Economics for two years. Then, in 1980, she accepted a position at the University of California, Berkeley, where she stayed until her appointment to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors in 1994 by President Bill Clinton. Months before his April 1994 nomination of Yellen, Clinton had selected one of Yellen's long-time colleagues at Berkeley's Haas School of Business, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, to chair the Council of Economic Advisers (making Tyson his top economist at the White House). According to an L.A. Times report on Clinton's 1994 nomination of Yellen, Tyson was "deeply involved in the selection process for filling the Fed vacancies." The report went on to assert that "Yellen, who would succeed Republican Wayne Angell on the board, also fulfills the Administration's desire to name a woman or a minority to offset the appointment of [Alan] Blinder, a white male, to be Fed vice chairman." (Tyson herself was reportedly tapped by Clinton over then-World Bank economist Larry Summers because Summers and Clinton's vice president, Al Gore, didn't see eye-to-eye on issues related to environmental economics.) So began Yellen's long career in monetary policy-making, which has already been momentous in reshaping the directives that have emanated from the central bank and driven major changes in the global economic landscape. One of the defining moments for Yellen that crystallized both her economic views and her character traits came two years into her tenure on the FOMC. In a recent profile of Yellen, New York Times correspondent Binyamin Appelbaum tells the story: In July 1996, the¬†Federal Reserve¬†broke the metronomic routine of its closed-door policy-making meetings to hold an unusual debate. The Fed‚Äôs powerful chairman, Alan Greenspan, saw a chance for the first time in decades to drive annual inflation all the way down to zero, achieving the price stability he had long regarded as the central bank‚Äôs primary mission. But¬†Janet L. Yellen, then a relatively new and little-known Fed governor, talked Mr. Greenspan to a standstill that day, arguing that a little inflation was a good thing. She marshaled academic research that showed it would reduce the depth and frequency of recessions, articulating a view that has prevailed at the Fed. And as the Fed‚Äôs vice chairwoman since 2010, Ms. Yellen has played a leading role in cementing the central bank‚Äôs commitment to keep prices rising about 2 percent each year. Inflation has become one of the biggest stories in economics recently as annual inflation rates have been declining and seem stuck persistently below the Fed's 2.5% threshold for tightening monetary policy. Today's consumer price index release revealed that core price inflation remained stubbornly unchanged at 1.7% in May. Persistently below-target inflation readings have provided support for the argument that the Fed should continue with its controversial bond-buying program aimed at providing monetary stimulus to the economy. As arguably the most dovish member of the FOMC ‚Äì meaning she tends to focus on unemployment concerns rather than keeping inflation at bay ‚Äì Yellen has undoubtedly had a big role in shaping the course of current policy. Yet Yellen's record shows that she has not always argued for easy monetary policy and higher inflation, despite her dovish tilt. Later in 1996, the economy was expanding, labor markets were tight, but core inflation was on a steady downward trend. At the September 1996 FOMC meeting, though, Yellen argued, "I¬†conclude that the risk of an increase in inflation has definitely¬†risen, and I would characterize the economy as operating in an¬†inflationary danger zone." While Yellen ultimately supported then-Chairman Alan Greenspan's decision to leave interest rates unchanged, she couched her decision by saying, "I find myself very close to the margin and¬†would also have been quite willing to support an upward adjustment of¬†25 basis points today, had you proposed that." In 1996, Yellen's argument rested on the thesis that the labor market was too tight. To be sure, things are much different now ‚Äì the unemployment rate remains stubbornly elevated around current levels at 7.6%, and concerns over inflation appear to be all but dead at this point. And given the Fed's current policy stance ‚Äì committed to unprecedented monetary easing until signs of improvement in the labor market re-emerge ‚Äì perhaps it's just as accurate to say that Yellen has already become the most powerful woman in history. Taking over the chairmanship in January would cement it.
Jos A BankA classic Jos. A. Bank deal.(Reuters) - Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc &lt;JOSB.O&gt; has proposed to buy bigger rival Men's Wearhouse Inc &lt;MW.N&gt; for about $2.3 billion to create a men's apparel heavyweight with more than 1,700 stores. The $48 per share all-cash offer is a 36 percent premium to the closing price of Men's Wearhouse common stock on Tuesday. Jos. A. Bank said Men's Wearhouse was reviewing the proposal, which it announced early on Wednesday. The deal, which would be funded by a combination of cash-on-hand, new equity capital and debt, would "immediately and significantly" add to Jos. A. Bank's earnings, the company said. Jos. A. Bank is partnering with Golden Gate Capital, which will make a $250 million equity investment in the company. Men's Wearhouse has a market value of about $1.68 billion, compared with Jos. A. Bank's $1.17 billion. Jos. A. Bank said in June it was considering strategic opportunities to enhance shareholder value, including acquisitions. Jos. A. Bank, with more than 600 stores, is a century-old seller of men's tailored and casual clothing, according to its website. Men's Wearhouse, founded in 1973, sells discount suits through 1,137 stores, according to its website. Shares of Jos. A. Bank fell about 2 percent to $41.66 on the Nasdaq on Tuesday. Shares of Men's Wearhouse dropped less than half a percent to $35.24 on the New York Stock Exchange. (Reporting by Sakthi Prasad in Bangalore; Editing by Christopher Cushing and Gopakumar Warrier)
REUTERS/ Alfred Cheng JinWASHINGTON (AP) ó The Federal Reserve's decision last month to maintain the size of its economic stimulus was a shocker. Just about everyone expected a pullback in its bond purchases, which have helped keep loan rates low. And now? Thanks to the government's partial shutdown, many analysts don't think the Fed will reduce its stimulus before next year. And with the White House's choice of the like-minded Janet Yellen to succeed Ben Bernanke as chairman next year, the Fed will likely be cautious about any pullback in early 2014. Bernanke and the Fed may also now look a bit wiser to those who questioned their stance last month. After all, a key reason Bernanke gave for maintaining the pace of the Fed's stimulus was Washington's budget impasse. It posed a risk to the economy and financial markets, he suggested. Bernanke said the budget standoff would likely make it harder to know whether the economy was strong enough for the Fed to slow its stimulus. If anything, the economic outlook is getting darker: Even if the partial shutdown ended now, a graver threat awaits: A deadline to raise the federal borrowing limit. If Congress doesn't raise the limit by Oct. 17, the government would soon run out of cash to pay interest on its debt. Any missed payment would cause a default. Another recession would likely follow. In hindsight, many economists think the Fed would have erred if it reduced its stimulus last month. It almost did. Some Fed officials have said the policy committee's decision at the Sept. 17-18 meeting against paring the $85 billion in monthly bond purchases was a close call. Still, one voting member of the committee, James Bullard, head of the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank, noted that Fed officials have stressed that any pullback in bond purchases would hinge on the strength of the economy. Some data released before the Fed's September meeting had showed a weakening economy, Bullard noted. On Wednesday, details about last month's decision could emerge when the Fed issues the minutes of the September meeting. The minutes will likely show concern that the economy wasn't growing as fast as the Fed had forecast and that some indicators, such as job growth and consumer spending, had weakened. Even after the Fed chose last month not to slow its stimulus, some analysts said it might reduce the bond purchases at its next meeting Oct. 29-30 or at the final meeting of the year, Dec. 17-18. Few are saying so anymore. What's changed was the partial shutdown, which many analysts hoped would be averted, and the growing risk that Congress won't raise the debt limit and will cause the government to default. Now, many economists say they think the Fed will leave its support at the current high level into 2014. "With everything that is happening with the federal budget, the Fed is going to be even more cautious about doing anything," predicted Sung Won Sohn, an economics professor at the Martin Smith School of Business at California State University. "The best approach they can take right now is stand pat and watch." For one thing, the outlook for the economy will remain murky as long as the partial shutdown goes on. The shutdown has delayed the government's release of critical economic data. The jobs report for September, for example, was due out Oct. 4 but has yet to be released. In the meantime, the Fed will need to monitor the economic effects of both the shutdown and the possibility of a government default. Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew has told Congress that he likely will have exhausted all the book-keeping maneuvers he can use by Thursday of next week. By then, the government will have only about $30 billion cash on hand. Lew has urged Congress to raise the current $16.7 trillion borrowing limit before then. President Barack Obama has repeatedly said he won't negotiate with Republicans over raising the debt limit as he did during a previous such fight in August 2011. The 2011 standoff was resolved at the last minute. The borrowing limit was raised before the government defaulted on its debt obligations. But the prolonged political impasse led Standard &amp; Poor's to downgrade long-term U.S. debt for the first time in history. Most analysts also expect the current debt-limit standoff to be resolved before the deadline given the economic crisis that would ensue if it isn't. But Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, said it could take the threat of further turbulence in financial markets to break the logjam. "I think the most likely scenario is that policymakers only act when financial markets begin to sell off," Zandi said. "It will require lower stock prices, a lower dollar and turmoil in the bond market to get Washington to move." Zandi is among those who think market turmoil will delay any pullback in the Fed's bond purchases. He foresees no slowdown in the purchases until 2014. "With each day that the lawmakers can't get it together, the economic damage mounts, and the day the Fed starts tapering is pushed off," he said. It's always possible that Congress could act faster than some expect to resolve the shutdown and the government's borrowing limit. If so, some say the Fed might still act before year's end to scale back its stimulus. But Vincent Reinhart, chief economist at Morgan Stanley and a former top economist at the Fed, said he saw the likelihood of a cut in bond purchases as around 5 percent at the Fed's October meeting and 10 percent at the December meeting. Sohn said the Fed's meeting in March could be the first one when it might feel the economy was strong enough to withstand a pullback in bond purchases. If the slowdown in bond buying began in March, it would be a full six months after the September date where many had initially expected the Fed's pullback to begin. That's why Sohn thinks the mid-2014 point that Bernanke had mentioned as a likely time for the bond purchases to end will likely slip until the end of 2014. Sohn said he expects the Fed to eventually take small steps in cutting its $85 billion in monthly purchases, possibly in reductions of $10 billion to $20 billion that would end in December 2014. "The Fed wants to take measured steps, and I don't think they will move until Yellen feels she is in firm command," Sohn said. "Washington's budget craziness has made the Fed more cautious." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Here's a great little visualizer of how the world's wealth is broken down among the ultra-super-rich, the super-rich, the rich, and everyone else. It's from Credit Suisse (via @FGoria) and it shows how 32 million people, representing 0.7% of the world's adult, population control $98.7 trillion or about 41% of the world's wealth. On the base of the pyramid we see that 3.2 billion people, representing 68.7% of the world's adult population, control just 3% of the world's wealth, or about $7.3 trillion. Credit Suisse/@Fgoria
Getty ImagesWASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî Americans are holding Republicans primarily responsible for the partial government shutdown as public esteem sinks for all players in the impasse, President Barack Obama among them, according to a new poll. It's a struggle with no heroes. The Associated Press-GfK survey, out Wednesday, affirms expectations by many in Washington ‚Äî Republicans among them ‚Äî that the GOP may end up taking the biggest hit in public opinion from the fiscal paralysis, just as that party did when much of the government closed 17 years ago. But the situation is fluid nine days into the shutdown and there's plenty of disdain to go around. Overall, 62 percent mainly blamed Republicans for the shutdown. About half said Obama or the Democrats in Congress bear much responsibility. Asked if she blamed Obama, House Republicans, Senate Democrats or the tea party for the shutdown, Martha Blair, 71, of Kerrville, Texas, said, yes, you bet. All of them. "Somebody needs to jerk those guys together to get a solution, instead of just saying 'no,'" said Blair, an independent. "It's just so frustrating." It's also costly: She's paid to fly with a group to four national parks in Arizona and California next month and says she can't get her money back or reschedule if the parks remain closed. The poll found that the tea party is more than a gang of malcontents in the political landscape, as its supporters in Congress have been portrayed by Democrats. Rather, it's a sizable ‚Äî and divisive ‚Äî force among Republicans. More than 4 in 10 Republicans identified with the tea party and were more apt than other Republicans to insist that their leaders hold firm in the standoff over reopening government and avoiding a default of the nation's debt in coming weeks. Most Americans disapprove of the way Obama is handling his job, the poll suggests, with 53 percent unhappy with his performance and 37 percent approving of it. Congress is scraping rock bottom, with a ghastly approval rating of 5 percent. Indeed, anyone making headlines in the dispute has earned poor marks for his or her trouble, whether it's Democrat Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, or Republican John Boehner, the House speaker, both with a favorability rating of 18 percent. And much of the country draws a blank on Republican Ted Cruz of Texas despite his 21-hour Senate speech before the shutdown. Only half in the poll were familiar enough with him to register an opinion. Among those who did, 32 percent viewed him unfavorably, 16 percent favorably. Comparisons could not be drawn conclusively with how people viewed leaders before the shutdown because the poll was conducted online, while previous AP-GfK surveys were done by telephone. Some changes may be due to the new methodology, not shifts in opinion. The poll provides a snapshot of public opinion starting in the third day of the shutdown. The poll comes with both sides dug in and trading blame incessantly. On Tuesday, a proposal by House Republicans to create a working group of 20 lawmakers to tackle deficit issues prompted a White House veto threat, and a plan by Senate Democrats to raise the debt limit by $1 trillion to avoid a default drew a frosty reception from the GOP. Obama is insisting Republicans reopen government and avert default before any negotiations on deficit reduction or his 2010 health care law are held. Among the survey's findings: ‚Äî Sixty-eight percent said the shutdown is a major problem for the country, including majorities of Republicans (58 percent), Democrats (82 percent) and independents (57 percent). ‚Äî Fifty-two percent said Obama is not doing enough to cooperate with Republicans to end the shutdown; 63 percent say Republicans aren't doing enough to cooperate with him. ‚Äî Republicans are split on just how much cooperation they want. Among those who do not back the tea party, fully 48 percent say their party should be doing more with Obama to find a solution. But only 15 percent of tea-party Republicans want that outreach. The vast majority of them say GOP leaders are doing what they should with the president, or should do even less with him. ‚Äî People seem conflicted or confused about the showdown over the debt limit. Six in 10 predict an economic crisis if the government's ability to borrow isn't renewed later this month with an increase in the debt limit ‚Äî an expectation widely shared by economists. Yet only 30 percent say they support raising the limit; 46 percent were neutral on the question. ‚Äî More than 4 in 5 respondents felt no personal impact from the shutdown. For those who did, thwarted vacations to national parks, difficulty getting work done without federal contacts at their desks and hitches in government benefits were among the complaints. Blair's nine-day trip to national parks with a tour group won't happen if the parks are still closed next month. "I'm concerned," she said, "but it seems kind of trivial to people who are being shut out of work." In Mount Prospect, Ill., Barbara Olpinski, 51, a Republican who blames Obama and both parties for the shutdown, said her family is already seeing an impact and that will worsen if the impasse goes on. She's an in-home elderly care director, her daughter is a physician's assistant at a rural clinic that treats patients who rely on government coverage, and her husband is a doctor who can't get flu vaccines for patients on public assistance because deliveries have stopped. "People don't know how they are going to pay for things, and what will be covered," she said. "Everybody is kind of like holding their wallets." The AP-GfK Poll was conducted Oct. 3-7 and involved online interviews with 1,227 adults. The survey has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3.4 percentage points for all respondents. The survey used GfK's KnowledgePanel, a probability-based Internet panel designed to be representative of the U.S. population. Respondents to the survey were first selected randomly using phone or mail survey methods, and were later interviewed for this survey online. People selected for KnowledgePanel who didn't have online access were given that access at no cost to them. ___ Online: AP-GfK Poll: http://www.ap-gfkpoll.com ___ Associated Press writer Stacy A. Anderson and News Survey Specialist Dennis Junius contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Larry DowningThe U.S. Capitol dome is seen from the House side on Capitol Hill in Washington after the U.S. Government shut down last night, October 1, 2013.Things are starting to look pretty dicey with the US debt ceiling debate and government shut-down. ¬†If you watched the press conferences yesterday from Speaker Boehner and President Obama it looks like they‚Äôre both digging their heels in. ¬†They‚Äôre both waiting for the other side to blink as if this is some sort of staring contest that you might have had in kindergarten. Anyhow, I‚Äôve thought quite a bit about this and while things certainly look dicey I do think there‚Äôs a most likely outcome here. ¬†Here are my general thoughts on what might happen: Scenario 1. ¬†(most likely): ¬†The market declines 2-3% further and credit markets start to show more signs of stress which causes the millionaires in Congress to look at their self imposed decline in net worth and come to their senses by passing a Continuing Resolution with both sides giving in a little bit to avoid having to look like this was all for nothing. ¬†But neither said will get 100% of what they want and we‚Äôll bump right up against the debt ceiling before finally getting something done. Scenario 2.¬†(Unlikely) ¬†If Congress can‚Äôt come to an agreement before October 17th then Ben Bernanke will swoop in to save the day. ¬†Remember, the Federal Reserve was created specifically to avoid financial crises and to maintain a smooth operating payments system. ¬†And under the exigent circumstances clause the Fed Chief can basically do whatever is in his monetary control so long as he thinks it will avoid catastrophe. ¬†Given that a default would obviously cause a catastrophe the Fed, as the gatekeeper to the Treasury General Account, will work with the US Treasury to avoid a default. ¬†That means they‚Äôll either perform some form of QE directly with the Treasury or they‚Äôll just directly buy the bonds from the US Treasury with the agreement that they‚Äôll sell them back for reissuance on the private market once the circus ends in Washington.* The exigent circumstances clause is the cleanest and most logical way for the US government to avoid defaulting. ¬†And it avoids all the potentially messy alternatives like minting platinum coins or selling ultra premium bonds. ¬†And since President Obama would certainly place Ben Bernanke (and other voting members) at the top of a pardon list in exchange for this I see no downside for the Fed Chief. ¬†In fact, he‚Äôll get to say he saved the world for the second time in 5 years. ¬†How many people can lay claim to that? ¬† No reasonable person could say the Fed broke the law under this environment when it was simply exercising its Congressionally granted exigent circumstances clause to save the country. ¬†And more importantly though, the US Treasury doesn‚Äôt have to be involved in breaking the law (which leaves the Executive Branch out of the equation). In the case of exercising the exigent circumstances clause the US Congress becomes a moot point. ¬†Once the Fed is funding the US Treasury, Congress is just bickering for no reason because the central bank has effectively obtained the power of the purse. ¬†They‚Äôve exposed the debt ceiling for the non-constraint that it is. Scenario 3. (Also unlikely): If I were a consultant to Fed Chief Bernanke I would recommend that he call President Obama today and get certainty of a Presidential pardon in the case of breaking the Federal Reserve Act under exercising the exigent circumstances clause in case of a potential default. ¬†Then I‚Äôd call Jack Lew and tell him that I have his back no matter what and I absolutely will not let a group of maniacs in Congress cause a second financial crisis in 5 years. ¬†And then I‚Äôd call House Speaker Boehner and let him know that I will fund the US Treasury General Account in full on October 17th and inform him that his political leverage is gone. ¬† In other words, I would force scenario 1 by ensuring that scenario 2 is on the table. ¬†That would end the entire ‚Äúcrisis‚Äù because it would eliminate the leverage the House thinks it has over the Senate. The bottom line is: 1) ¬†The US government will not default because, if the Congress can‚Äôt come to its senses, then the adults at the Fed and Treasury will simply circumvent their authority in an effort to avoid calamity. ¬†They have no choice because they either have to break the 14th amendment or the Fed Act (which is arguable to begin with given that the exigent circumstances clause is extremely vague). 2) ¬†Congress should be prudent and avoid putting the Treasury and Fed in an impossible position. 3) ¬†My hope, is that we‚Äôll all look back at this in a few weeks and chuckle at how comedic our political process has become‚Ä¶. * ¬†The Exigent Circumstances clause, ie, the ‚Äúall your base are belong to us‚Äù clause:
Matthew Lewis / Getty ImagesMarkets got whooped pretty badly, as fears over the crisis in Washington mount. Today though: A little more calm as we're seeing modest gains in Europe and in US futures. What's the latest? Well, for one thing, Obama is going to nominate Janet Yellen today to lead the Fed this was expected for awhile, but it's good news that this is happening for the market, as it's seen that she's dovish (in favor of easy money) and not going to depart from the current plan of the Fed. There's also some chatter about, perhaps, Obama having opened the door a little bit to a deal by being open to some short term lift to debt ceiling while the two sides engaged in more substantive debate about the budget. It's thin stuff, and the Boehner kind of rejected it a little. But there's a glimmer now where the day before that wasn't so clear.
