No surprise here. Japan is falling again, following the violent strengthening of the yen during the middle of the day today. The Nikkei is off 1.76%. Nikkei.com
The EIA says the growth of onshore oil and gas production ‚Äî i.e. the shale boom ‚Äî is immunizing the U.S. from rig closures caused by hurricanes. And that's good news because this hurricane season could be really bad. The¬†National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has predicted "above-normal tropical weather," and up to 6 intense, named storms this year. Last year there were two hurricanes that affected production. In 1997, 26% of the nation‚Äôs natural gas was produced in the federal Gulf of Mexico. In 2012, that number was 6%. The Gulf of Mexico's share of crude oil¬†production has also declined, from 26% in 2007-11 to 19% in 2012. Here's the chart showing that story: EIA The EIA doesn't say so, but the implied conclusion is lower price volatility.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Cash Ratios At Hybrid Funds Are At Record Highs (Gluskin Sheff)  David Rosenberg sees an interesting divergence between portfolio managers who manage hybrids, "(income equity ‚Äî my preferred strategy for some time)," and those who manage high-yield bond funds. The former "became nervous as this equity segment moved to valuation extremes and bond yields began to rise and as such these investors quickly and prudently took profits and raised cash ‚Äî in fact, liquidity ratios have risen to all-time highs of 11%." The high cash ratio tells us that they have better liquidity and can pay off debt quickly. Meanwhile, their high-yield counterparts have been slower to react and they are the ones like to see "heavy redemptions." "It will be interesting to see if there is forced selling ahead, but the dividend PMs have been must swifter in their reaction function and willingness to lock in than those overseeing junk bond funds." Gluskin Sheff Four Tail Risks That Could Cause A 'Butterfly Effect' In Global Financial Markets (LPL Financial) The Fed taper, German elections, Europe's growth story and Congress's debate over the debt ceiling are four big events markets are watching in 2013. But there are four smaller tail risks that could cause a 'butterfly effect' in global financial markets, according to Jeff Kleintop at LPL Financial.¬† 1. Farmland - Soaring farmland prices could slump and impact the economy well beyond the farm. Global investors have also poured into farmland and could face losses. 2. State budgets - If improvements in state budgets continues this is good for the stock market and if the credit profile improves its good for municipal bonds. 3. Manufacturing - Latest U.S. manufacturing data has been weak, but with rising wages in China, and improving oil production trends this could be a U.S. manufacturing Renaissance. 4. Weather - The unusually long winter impacted economic activity. This could cause a release in pent up activity, better than expected reports and optimism about the state of the economy. UBS Has A Pilot Program For Its Trainee Advisors¬†(The Wall Street Journal) The wealth management industry has been dwindling and only 5% of advisors are under 30 according to Cerulli Associates. With that in mind, UBS Wealth Management Americas has launched a pilot program for about 50 trainees according to the Wall Street Journal.¬† Unlike most trainees that are expected to generate revenue in four months, these trainees aren't required to bring in client revenue for two years. The trainees will also be rotated between various advisor teams and focus on getting a Certified Financial Planner certificate. Regulator Tells Investors To Watch For Six Things Before Investing In Alternative Funds (FINRA) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has warned that alternative mutual funds don't necessarily ascribe to the buy and hold strategy of most mutual funds. In a new missive, they warn investors to study six things before investing in alternative funds. 1. Investment structure - Offers more diversification but could be less transparent and lead to "a flattening of return." It might also impact the investors ability to re-allocate in a way that is optimal for a particular fund of funds. 2. Risks for strategies they use. 3. The investment objectives, it could be designed to "capitalize on management expertise" or what the manager thinks is "more complete diversification," through exposure to various assets. 4. Operating expense. 5. The fund manager. 6. The performance history. EL-ERIAN: The Market 'Sucking Sounds' Are Getting Louder As Four Forces Come Together (Business Insider) "The 'sucking sounds' of prior days are getting louder as four factors come together," according to PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian. These four factors are 1. "Greater market volatility forcing more formulaic and VAR-based accounts to reduce positions in an accelerated fashion." 2. "Crossover investors trying to get back to their 'home asset classes,' and finding it hard to do so in an orderly fashion." 3. "An outflow of funds from mutual funds and other accounts." 4. "Reduced willingness among dealers to make markets and, in the process, resisting to hold much inventory."
Since Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke testified before Congress on May 22, failing to rebuff the suggestion that the central bank could begin tapering back bond purchases as soon as Labor Day (September 2), the U.S. stock market has experienced an unusual bout of weakness. Despite the volatility, hedge funds held on and continued to invest in equities, right up until last week, when they became sellers. These are the findings from BofA Merrill Lynch equity strategist Savita Subramanian's latest report, which details weekly flows based on what BAML clients are doing. Subramanian writes: Last week, during which the S&amp;P 500 was up 0.8% amid a payrolls number that was largely in-line with expectations, BofAML clients were net sellers of US stocks for the second consecutive week. At $206mn, net sales were more muted than the prior week, when fears of the Fed tapering roiled the market. Hedge funds‚Äîwho had previously been the only group exhibiting faith in the market rally with seven consecutive weeks of net buying‚Äîhad the largest net sales last week. Institutional clients were also net sellers, while private clients were the sole net buyers in their second week of inflows. By size segment, small caps and mid caps saw outflows while large caps saw inflows. Year-to-date, cumulative outflows from US stocks total $10.8bn‚Äînearly matching the $10.9bn of outflows for the full-year 2012 (see Table 1 inside), primarily due to net sales by institutional clients. The chart below shows the big reversal in hedge fund buying last week. Business Insider
Getty Images/Joe RaedleWhen the Department of Housing and Urban Development first began to systemically study housing discrimination in the United States in the 1970s, the most blatant forms of it were still common. Blacks were denied appointments to meet with real estate brokers or rental agencies to tour homes that had been publicly advertised. Or they were told those homes were no longer available, a lie that helped perpetuate the racial divides between whole neighborhoods. Today, illegal incidents like these rarely occur (although they have not disappeared entirely). Discrimination, though, persists in a much subtler form. Minorities in search of a home today typically get to meet the agent and see the property. But they're less likely than whites to then learn about the full range of housing options available to them ñ to be told "I have another two-bedroom you might like to see," or "let me show you one more house." "Itís very subtle," says Margery Turner, a senior vice president with the Urban Institute. "Itís pretty much impossible for the victim to detect that this is happening to him or her." We know, however, that this kind of discrimination takes place across the country based on the results of a sweeping new study released today by HUD and conducted by the Urban Institute. The research is the fourth in a series of HUD-sponsored studies of housing discrimination in America that have taken place roughly once a decade since 1977. In this latest study, 8,000 pairs of matched testers ñ one white, one minority, both equally qualified for the home in question ñ responded to ads for a variety of housing in 28 nationally representative metropolitan areas. Blacks in the market to own a home, for example, were then shown 17 percent fewer properties than whites. "Housing Discrimination Against Racial and Ethnic Minorities 2012," HUD and Urban Institute In effect, this practice still constrains housing opportunities available to minorities. "It still matters," Turner says. "It still really makes a difference. Not only is it fundamentally unfair that somebody doesnít find out about available housing because of the color of their skin, but it also really raises the cost of searching for housing for minorities, or it restricts their choices." This may mean that minorities don't find the most affordable housing or the housing located in neighborhoods with the best schools or parks or proximity to jobs. In this study, the race of the rental or real estate agent appeared to have no effect on the results. But minority testers whose race was more easily identifiable ñ by name, by voice over the phone, or in person ñ experienced more discrimination than minorities who were more likely to be mistaken as white. The findings raise a curious question about the property agents on the other side of all these transactions: Are they doing this intentionally? Is there some unconscious bias at work? "Paired testing is incredibly good at capturing whether discrimination occurs, when it occurs, and what forms it takes," Turner says. "But it doesnít answer the 'why' question. I donít know that there really is a reliable way to capture the answer to the 'why' question fully." There are, at least, a few hypotheses. Of course, conscious prejudice is one of them. Or agents may be assuming that minorities are less likely to be able to afford the home, or to be reliable tenants (in this experiment, however, paired testers were given identical financial profiles). Another theory suggests that whites ñ even if they're unconscious of it ñ may be less comfortable interacting with minorities and so may cut short such interactions. "Maybe they don't volunteer as much information," Turner says, "or they don't drive around to yet another house." The results of this study also likely underestimate the phenomenon. Testers in this experiment were all unambiguously well-qualified for the homes they sought (perhaps a one-bedroom for a single man, or a large home for someone posing as the head of a family of four). If some of this discrimination is rooted in stereotypes about the ability of Hispanics to pay their rent on time, or of blacks to be good tenants, discrimination might plausibly be even stronger for candidates who are marginally qualified for a home. These are some of the results among renters in the study:  And potential home-owners:  The good news in all of this, Turner says, is that the kind of "blatant, door-slamming" discrimination that was detected in the 1977 study has declined dramatically. But alongside that trend, we might expect to see a steady decline in these subtler forms of discrimination as well. And that hasn't really happened. "It seems to be kind of hanging on," Turner says. "It isnít dwindling away to nothing." Historically, the levels of residential segregation that solidified in the era of more overt discrimination have also remained strikingly high today:  "Segregation is in many ways the legacy of past discrimination," Turner says. American communities are racially divided today for a variety of reasons: because of earlier red-lining by banks, because of the history of white flight to suburbia, because of mobility patterns that perpetuate segregation from one generation to the next. But the overt housing discrimination of the past played a significant role in influencing our cities as we see them today. It's harder to say what role this subtler kind of discrimination plays. It is clear, though, that if the victims of this practice don't even realize it's taking place, fair housing advocates and agencies must be that much more proactive in weeding it out. Click here to follow The Atlantic Cities. More From The Atlantic Cities: ïWhy Segregation Is Bad For Everyone ïHow Black Gentrifiers Have Affected The Perception Of Chicago's Changing Neighborhoods ïThe Next Big Infrastructure Crisis? Age-Proofing Our Streets
REUTERS/Yannis BehrakisA huge Turkish flag is obscured by black smoke from burning barricades during clashes between police and anti-government protesters in Istanbul's Taksim square June 11, 2013.First markets went down, then they went up, and then they went down again. With that, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
And there's never anything like your first time. Anthony Scaramucci, co-founder of SkyBridge Capital, Romney bundler, and Master of Ceremonies at the oh-so-epic SALT Conference is opening a bar for hedge funders and private equity guys in Midtown Manhattan. At last, Paradise. It will be called the Hunt and Fish Club, Bloomberg reports (of course, that's no reference to the Bergin Hunt and Fish Club, John Gotti's infamous Queens hangout). The partners seek to raise $4 million for the project, which is slated to open in December. To make this magic happen, Scaramucci is teaming up with 22-year Morgan Stanley vet David Barrett and restaurateur Eytan Sugarman (co-owner of Justin Timberlake's Southern Comfort). They want to make the Hunt and Fish Club a "fun", "clubhouse" type environment to counter the wasteland of Midtown options with unattractive wait staff, according to marketing documents reviewed by Bloomberg. Their target demographic is the young professional with lots of disposable income who frequent establishments like Rothmann‚Äôs Steakhouse &amp; Grill and Papillon Bistro &amp; Bar. From Bloomberg: ‚ÄúDave Barrett and I have said for years that we wanted to have place where we could gather people from our community,‚Äù Scaramucci said in the e-mail. ‚ÄúGreat food and great social environment.‚Äù The Hunt and Fish Club will be located on 125 West 44th Street, between 6th Avenue and Broadway. Ladies and gentleman, meet your new Cheers.
ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey's central bank acted to support the lira on Tuesday and Turkish debt insurance costs rose, as markets - looking past data on faster economic growth - took fright at fresh police and protester clashes in Istanbul. Citing "excessive volatility ... due to international and domestic developments during the last month", the central bank said it planned short-term extra policy-tightening steps through open market operations. It skipped its usual fixed-rate repo auction and held five $50 million forex-selling auctions, saying it would continue such sales whenever necessary. It said it would also intervene directly in the foreign exchange market if needed. Two weeks of demonstrations against plans to redevelop an Istanbul park have spiraled into violent anti-government protests across the country, fuelling losses in Turkish assets. Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan has also unsettled some international investors with strong condemnation of what he sees as market speculation. It has all added to existing pressure on asset markets in general brought on by uncertainty over the outlook for U.S. Federal Reserve money-printing policies. "The central bank is drawing a line in the sand after recent lira weakness. Along with most (Europe, Middle East and Africa)currencies, the lira has been under intense pressure since the Fed discussed a potential tempering of quantitative easing," said Guillaume Salomon, a strategist at Societe Generale. "Domestic tensions have not helped either ... We believe that the market should prepare itself for much higher short-term rates as the central bank tries to stabilize the lira." The lira firmed after the central bank announcement of monetary tightening, having slumped to its weakest level against a euro/dollar basket since October 2011 in early trade. It stood at 2.1997 against the basket by 1446 GMT, having weakened to 2.22 earlier. But the cost of insuring Turkish debt against default - a gauge of investors' political concern - rose to a 10-month high, according to Markit data. Benchmark two-year government bond yields also climbed, rising to 6.82 percent from 6.50 percent on Monday in thin volume. The yield on Turkey's 10-year bond, due March 8, 2023, climbed to above 8 percent from 7.50 percent earlier on Tuesday as investors sold long-term debt. Shares were 1.76 percent down on the day. "POSITIVE SURPRISE" ON GROWTH Riot police fired water cannon and teargas at protesters who threw stones and fireworks in Istanbul's Taksim Square on Tuesday, as the police entered the square for the first time since the start of June. Erdogan called on protesters to withdraw from Gezi Park next to the square. He said the wave of anti-government demonstrations were part of a deliberate attempt to damage Turkey's image and economy. Ratings agency Moody's said on Monday that the protests across Turkey will weigh increasingly on its credit rating the longer they last and that they have heightened risks to the country's balance of payments. The problems obscured data showing the underlying state of Turkey's economy remaining relatively sound. Gross domestic product grew 3 percent year-on-year in the first quarter, beating forecasts. "A positive surprise. That said, I expect political instability and forex weakness to eat into growth for the rest of the year," said Timothy Ash, head of emerging markets research at Standard Bank. But the current account deficit widened to $8.17 billion in April from a revised $5.5 billion a month earlier.
YouTube/BloombergCitigroup could lose as much as $7 billion this year if the dollar strengthens against major currencies, Charles Peabody predicts. Bloomberg's Donal Griffin reports¬†that Peabody, lead researcher at Portales Partners LLC,¬†is nearly alone among analysts recommending investors sell Citigroup shares.¬† From Bloomberg: He estimates the bank may lose $5 billion to $7 billion in regulatory capital this year if the dollar gains against the yen, euro and currencies in emerging markets, which provide about half the firm‚Äôs profit. That would be its worst translation loss in five years, exceeding the $3.5 billion deficit in 2011. The average of 26 analysts polled by Bloomberg predicted Citigroup's stock would rise to $55.67 within this year, up about 7%. But Peabody, famous for calling the mortgage market's crash as early as January 2005,¬†says Citi's share price could drop by 50 percent, their book sapped by currency losses.¬† He told Bloomberg that the bank's reliance on revenue from abroad leads him to believe currency swings will hurt Citi more than other U.S. firms. Last June, Peabody said Citigroup‚Äôs currency losses could reach $3 billion to $5 billion as the Mexican peso and the Brazilian real slumped against the dollar. The bank posted a $1.6 billion currency loss instead. ‚ÄúI was wrong in magnitude but not direction,‚Äù he says now. The Fed's bond buying program has pushed banks to seek riskier investments abroad. Citi, particularly drawn to emerging markets,¬†cast a wide net with operations in 100 countries. Now that "taper" is on the lips of every market watcher, the dollar is rallying and bond yields are through the roof. While accounting rules will mean currency losses wouldn't reduce Citigroup's reported income, their book value would suffer.
REUTERS/Keith BedfordYesterday, credit rating agency Standard &amp; Poors revised its credit rating outlook on U.S. sovereign debt to "stable" from "negative." In 2011, S&amp;P was the first of the three major rating agencies to strip the U.S. of its AAA rating (currently, it has the U.S. at AA+). BofA Merrill Lynch interest rate strategist Priya Misra warns clients in a note that the other two major raters, Moody's and Fitch, will probably also strip the U.S. of its AAA rating sometime this year ñ and, believe it or not, the downgrades could actually catch the market by surprise. Misra writes: Expect Moodyís and Fitch to downgrade later this year  We continue to believe that Moodyís and Fitch are more likely than not to downgrade the US one notch this year, which would put them in line with S&amp;P. Based upon their reports and our own analysis, to maintain AAA status, Moodyís and Fitch would need to see approximately US$1tn in additional deficit reductions over the decade ñ on top of the existing full sequester ñ to produce medium-term stabilization, followed by a decline in the US debt/GDP ratio.  CBOís GDP estimates are likely optimistic relative to rating agency assumptions. Even if Moodyís and Fitch agree with CBOís deficits, a 4% nominal GDP growth assumption beyond 2013 would result in debt-to-GDP declining to 73.2% before rising again.  Market implications  To the extent that US downgrade risks are still at play for the market, the removal of S&amp;P from the rating story is a positive for Treasury rates, relative to swaps and spread products in general. But we do not think the market is fully pricing in a Moodys/Fitch single-notch downgrade this year. While the surprise factor of a Moodyís move this summer would be quite mild relative to the S&amp;P downgrade in August 2011, we think it could catch the market off guard, given the recent improvements on the deficit front. We believe a downgrade would result in a steeper 5s-30s curve, tightening of swap spreads and a marginal underperformance of Treasuries with respect to corporates and MBS. Yesterday, the S&amp;P announcement did seem to have a marginal impact on markets, at least in the morning.
AP PhotoIn March, the Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper, told Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR), that the National Security Agency ¬†does "not wittingly" collect any data on millions or hundreds of millions of Americans. Last week, we learned¬†that under a Top Secret court order, Verizon Wireless provides all of its call data to the National Security Agency on a daily basis. We also learned that¬†this has been going on for seven years.  So, doesn't that count as the NSA wittingly collecting some data on millions of Americans? Here's the exact exchange: Clapper was testifying before the Senate Intelligence Committee on March 12 of this year when he was asked by Wyden: "Does the NSA collect any type of data at all on millions or hundreds of millions of Americans?" "No, sir," Clapper replied. Wyden seemed surprised by this: "It does not?" "Not wittingly," answers Clapper, pensively rubbing his forehead as he talks. "There are cases where they could inadvertently, perhaps, collect, but not wittingly." Pressed on the issue by the National Journal, Clapper said last week that he meant to say that "the NSA does not voyeuristically pore through U.S. citizens' e-mails." That may be true. But that's not what he said in the hearing. And that's not what Wyden heard, either. Check out his Tweet, and the video of the testimony ‚Äî the key exchange happens at the 6:38 mark:¬† In March, DNI Clapper specifically told me #NSA does not wittingly collect any type of data on millions of Americans youtu.be/QwiUVUJmGjs?t=‚Ä¶ Do you think Clapper lies here? Let us know in the comments below.¬†
The U.S. generated 730 million kilowatt hours of solar electricity in the first two months of 2013, 227% more than the same period in 2012, according to new EIA data. We're also already 10% into the total amount generated for all of 2012 ‚Äî and we're not even in the sunniest parts of the year. Here's the chart. This year's on pace to set new records: EIA¬† Meanwhile, coal generation is up 8%, while natgas generation is down 8% for the period. Natural gas prices had climbed back to $4 for the first time in months.
Financial conferences can be less than exciting, but we always tune in for JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon ‚Äî today, our patience was rewarded. Dimon spoke at the Morgan Stanley Financials Conference (live stream here), and after a few words about rising interest rates, the health of Europe, and progress at JPM, the moderator asked Dimon about the 800 lbs whale in the room, JP Morgan's $6 billion trading loss uncovered last year. Time and time again Dimon has said the loss was "stupid" and "embarrassing", strong words for any CEO. His statement on it this time, however, sounded like the ultimate word. "We knew we had a problem," Dimon said. He explained that within the bank, they simply didn't know how large the problem was. "I don't know what more I can say," he continued. "It was badly vetted... badly monitored... But we came full kimono." After that, Dimon really got going. "We tried to tell them [regulators] but we didn't know ourselves sometimes... the model, there's this obsession about the model. I mean, even today the facts are moving around a little bit... I sat in those meetings myself. Make believe the Pope is over here and the Chairman of the SEC is right here and you do the right thing... there was no hiding, no lying, there was no bullshitting." It was hard to get all that as Dimon was speaking so fast, luckily he made his dismount very clear. And he landed it cleanly. "Just so you know, at the time I said, 'why don't we ask the SEC for guidance'.... in the old days you used to be able to get guidance... but you can't do that anymore," Dimon lamented. "And anyone who sues, we're going to fight them to the end, so keep that in mind." Throws mic on the ground... walks off stage. Not really, Dimon continued answering questions after that, but it felt like that's what he should've done.
After an intraday comeback earlier, the U.S. stock market is rolling over again and is headed lower. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading around 1630, down 0.8% from yesterday's close. Meanwhile, the yen is surging against the U.S. dollar. The dollar is now down 2.6% against the yen, and just broke below the ¬•96 level briefly. The dollar-yen exchange rate has become something of a yardstick for global liquidity conditions, so when the yen is surging against the dollar like it is today, other risk assets tend to sell off as well. Meanwhile, after a big rise in Treasury yields earlier, the 10-year Treasury yield has retreated to 2.20%, down one basis point from yesterday. Elsewhere, the bloodbath in global bond markets from this morning has begun to recede a bit, too. The chart below shows the dollar-yen exchange rate today. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
There may seem only two good reasons for hanging on in a job that has become as appealing as shoveling excrement in torrential rain: i) you need the money and ii) there are no other jobs on offer. However, if you‚Äôre feeling trapped in a job you dislike simply because it pays the bills and there don‚Äôt seem any real alternatives, then you can buoy yourself up with this thought: there are some excellent reasons to hang on in a job, and they have nothing to do with being trapped there. Regardless of unpleasantness. careers specialists said you should stick in a job when‚Ä¶ Karin Peeters, a life and executive coach in London, said it‚Äôs foolish to leave a job on at a low point. ‚ÄúYou want to get to a place where you can leave with your head held high,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt leave a job at a point of defeat and despair ‚Äì if you do, then in years to come you may still feel anger and resentment because you were forced out. You need to look back and think that made the choice to leave when it was right for you.‚Äù Don‚Äôt leave a hated job if leaving a hated job is something you‚Äôve done a few times already. ‚ÄúYou can get stuck in a habitual pattern,‚Äù warned Peeters. ‚ÄúYou may find that you always end up in a job with a manager you don‚Äôt get along with, or that you always feel envious towards colleagues, or that you always leave because you don‚Äôt feel up to the task. ‚ÄúInstead of perpetually moving jobs, you need to resolve your underlying issues,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúOtherwise, it will be like packing your suitcase and taking all your bad habits with you to the new role.‚Äù Angela Duckworth, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, has researched non-cognitive predictors of success and has come up with the concept of ‚Äògrit‚Äô as an additional determinant of achievement. Duckworth defines grit as ‚Äòperseverance and passion for long-term goals.‚Äô ‚ÄúGrit entails working strenuously toward challenges, maintaining effort and interest over years despite failure, adversity, and plateaus in progress. The gritty individual approaches achievement as a marathon; his or her advantage is stamina,‚Äù said Duckworth in the¬†Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. ‚ÄúWhereas disappointment or boredom signals to others that it is time to change trajectory and cut losses, the gritty individual stays the course.‚Äù In other words, gritty individuals won‚Äôt leave a job just because it‚Äôs become unpleasant. Blaire Palmer, chief executive of leadership consultancy That People Thing, said it‚Äôs worth holding on in an unedifying job if you think you‚Äôre able to change it. ‚ÄúDo you have a mission to alter the product, or the solutions you‚Äôre working on?‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúIf you think you can bring about change, it‚Äôs worthwhile staying.‚Äù
"In The Line Of Fire"Clint Eastwood plays a Secret Service agent in "The Line Of Fire."Earlier, we invited folks at the National Security Agency and other government agencies to share their side of the spying story. Are they all power-hungry megalomaniacs who use their "panopticon" spying machine to destroy privacy and trample all over the Constitution, as 29-year-old leaker Edward Snowden suggests? Or, like most professionals, do most of them try hard, respect other people, and do the best job they can? We've already gotten some interesting responses, and we look forward to getting more in the coming days. For now, here's the perspective of a reader who says he is a former Secret Service agent. He's not privvy to the goings-on inside today's turbocharged National Security Agency, but he has an interesting view of the general situation: I am a former US Secret Service agent and was previously exposed to many capabilities of our government. †While I absolutely believe all communication is accessible, I also know that 99.9% of intel and law enforcement personnel are for Americans not against Americans.  Privacy and our "special" rights as Americans are very well understood, and there is an intense underpinning to protecting those rights across the board. † Now, did I see instances of abuse of power by certain individuals? †I would say yes. However, America first is how I like to think about it, and that's how I think 99.9% of government intel types think about it.As far as this Booz Allen contractor is concerned, I think he's a self-indulgent douche. I don't think, based on what I know, he is for America, and he is certainly not a "hero". †I would put him in the traitor category. Also, I can paint you a profile of what is going on here if it helps.US intel agency contracts with what may as well be a private sector intel agency. They pluck some kid in his 20s off a farm (or some variation like that) and expose him to the fact that our government engages in well, spying. †What a shock!!! †The same confused lost soul "looks into it more" and is further shocked that our government is spying - ALL THE TIME - and uses technology to do so. †Another big shock!!! †Same kid lost in his 20s is "compelled to tell everyone" how bad everything is then flees like a coward to [Hong Kong]. That is what is going on here. †To extend this conversation to "the US gov" is spying on all Americans is a grotesque mischaracterization, if not total sensationalized version, of what actually happens. Do you work for the NSA or another "secret" government agency? Please let us know your thoughts on this. (hblodget@businessinsider.com). We'll keep everything anonymous!
Billionaire John Paulson's gold fund is down 54% year to date, according to an investor letter examined by Bloomberg. Last month alone the fund lost 27%, the news agency reported. At that point it was down 47% year to date. There's only about $360 million in the Gold Fund, which is made up mostly of Paulson's own money. To the outside investors that remain, Paulson they should should stay with the fund, citing valuations. Gold declined 5.4% in May, but Paulson has no intention of closing the fund, according to Bloomberg. He will, however, change the name to PFR Gold Funds which stands for the initials of Paulson and gold specialists Victor Flores and John Reade. All that said, it isn't time to feel sorry for the billionaire yet. Paulson's main strategy ó his Credit Opportunities Fund ó is up 16% YTD (beating the S&amp;P, which, lets be real, a lot of people aren't doing) and his Recovery Fund is up 28%.
Lululemon†has one hope for expansion: men.† The company is in flux a day after CEO Christine Day announced she was stepping down following a major recall of yoga pants for being too sheer.† Since then, shares have been plunging on criticism that investors overestimated the company's ability to expand.† But men present a huge opportunity for Lululemon, said Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors.† "The next opportunity is menswear, and it has to be menswear, because there's only so much women's product you can sell," Sozzi told us in a telephone interview. "I wouldn't be surprised if the next CEO was a man for this reason."† The company knows that men present a big growth opportunity. Less than two years ago, menswear made up 8% of Lululemon's revenue, a figure it hopes to more than double in the next several years, according to MSN Money. Lululemon currently offers cycling, running, and yoga clothing and has gained some ardent fans.† College student Eric Lewis started the blog Lulumen so that he and other men could review the company's products. He hopes to be the male counterpart to the highly popular blog LuluAddict for women.† "Most of what I wear is casual, but it never quite fit me right and fell apart after a few months," Lewis told Business Insider. "That all changed when I found Lululemon. It's totally worth the investment."† Lewis estimates that he's spent around $7,000 on the clothing.† "Lululemon is a brand that I'm passionate about, and I'm finding other men who also love the way the clothing fits," he told us.† His blog has an impressive 150,000 page views to date.† Hilary Phelps, a certified yoga instructor and founder of the website Genuine Joy, said she's noticed a huge uptick in men practicing yoga.† "The men tend to wear running shorts, t-shirts or cut off sweat pants," Phelps told us. "I imagine as the number of men who partake in yoga increases, so too will their interest in the yoga-specific clothes and brand." Sozzi said that Lululemon could take a number of steps to better appeal to men.† "Brands like Under Armour and Nike spend tons of money using professional athletes to better appeal to men," Sozzi said. "Lululemon has relied on word-of-mouth so far, but it takes marketing to really get men in stores."† Sozzi also said that the brand might need to change its name and logo to be less feminine.† "The name doesn't sound masculine, which might be off-putting to men," he said. "What Lululemon needs to do is give men a reason to spend way more than what they could buy at Target."†
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesWell, this ought to be interesting - not for what might be revealed, but for what will likely remain in the shadows. One of the weakest, least effective regulatory bodies around, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), is now saying they want to shed some light on "dark pools." FINRA is the self-regulatory body, backed and stacked by the broker-dealers and brokerages that channel your trades from your desktops and through brokers, whom FINRA is responsible for registering and regulating, to various exchanges for execution. They're going to be looking into dark pools, which are off-exchange trading venues where stocks are traded "blindly." That's supposed to mean buyers and sellers don't know who's who. But the truth is, even dark pool customers are blind to how these shadow operators really operate. Here's the deal... According to a recent†Wall Street Journal article, "In 2011, the SEC fined Pipeline Trading Systems LLC, a now-defunct New York dark-pool operator, $1 million for allegedly failing to disclose that a secretive trading unit interacted with the vast majority of client orders. Pipeline didn't admit or deny wrongdoing. Last October, a dark pool operated by several large Wall Street banks, LeveL ATS, settled SEC allegations, without admitting or denying wrongdoing, that it improperly shared confidential client trading information with a unit of Citigroup Inc., one of its investors." So the first question I have, and you might want to ask, is this: How come the SEC, which oversees FINRA and is infinitely more powerful than FINRA (though that's a relative thing considering how spineless the SEC is), isn't itself peering deeper into dark pools? I think we'll find the answer to that in a moment. Anyway, FINRA just sent "examination letters" (polite letters asking polite questions, on account of the fact that the self-regulatory regulator is looking into some of their own here) to 15 dark pool operators. Three of the biggest operators are Goldman Sachs,†Credit†Suisse Group AG, and Barclays Plc. Collectively, as calculated by market research firm Tabb Group, about 13% of daily trading volume happens in dark pools. So FINRA figures it looks good if it asks what really goes on in the depths of dark pools. Do dark pool customers know how operators may be operating on them, without them knowing? Are dark pool operators playing their customers by manipulating prices at public exchanges to influence trading orders and execution prices in their dark pools? Are dark pool operators who act as market-makers - meaning they trade for themselves based on where the orders they are "seeing" are coming from to buy and sell and how big those orders are - using the "order flow" their big customers believe is "blind" to their inside advantage? I'll save FINRA some time, and the lapdogs at the SEC who let this happen under their watchful eye (they only have one, the other is a marble). The answer is, of course, "yes." Dark pool operators are employing high-frequency trading computer technology to read incoming quotes and orders going to the public exchanges so they can do what HFT operators do, manipulate quotes and orders, including in their dark pools, where they have captive customers trading blocks. Customers who don't know that, most of the time, the trader on the other side isn't another institution, it's the house in whose basement without windows they expect to be treated fairly. But it's okay. FINRA will ask polite questions and turn over some of the answers they get to the SEC. And the SEC will tell them to bury the bad news and write a report that promises to ask non-offending offenders to incorporate more safeguards to make sure what's happening isn't ever fully disclosed. Why? Because the SEC, who let all this happen, can't let the world know that the markets they are supposed to ensure are fair and orderly are actually a casino rigged by the house, for the house. End of story.
It's been about a month since the Sohn Investment Conference took place in New York City, and one hedge fund manager's presentation is already standing out to us ó Stanley Druckenmiller's. The Sohn Conference is known for attracting ideas from the biggest players in the world of investing, but their presentations vary in terms of precision. Some investors focus on a specific company (Bill Ackman's presentation was solely a long thesis for Procter and Gamble) while others tend to give their macro overview of markets and the world at large (like Jeff Gundlach). Stanley Druckenmiller's presentation sat in a kind of middle ground between the two. His ideas were actionable, individual calls, but also quite prescient on a macro scale. That said, (as many presenters mentioned when they had the floor) the investment ideas presented at Sohn aren't things that you're going to wake up and see running markets the day after the conference. They take time. So we've been keeping some salient themes in mind, watching markets for some good calls etc., expecting results in a few months. That's why one of Druckenmiller's salient themes won't get out of our heads. He was majorly bearish on China and commodities, and told listeners to short the Aussie dollar, and† that's being played out magnificently right now. We've seen a ton of bad data from China since the Ira Sohn conference a month ago (remember PMI?), and according to Druckenmiller, that spells doom for commodities as well. The asset class enjoyed a brief respite from the sad end to its supercycle when China had a huge stimulus in 2008 ó now that help isn't coming. That crunch on commodities and China has resulted in the beautiful execution of one of Druckemiller's most clear, actionable ideas ó short the Aussie dollar. It has fallen 94 cents against the dollar. And look at that ugly slump since May, when the conference took place ó actually it's not really a slump, it's more of a dive. A few of Druckenmiller's other ideas remain to be seen ó he's short the market long term, thinks the end of QE will result in terror for U.S. markets, long Google (low exposure to China), and thinks the Bank of Japan is doing the right thing with its Abenomics stimulus. Obviously, all those things are up for debate. But when we see something work, we have to say something.
Here is the latest salvo in Texas Gov. Rick Perry continues his blitz to lure businesses to the Lone Star state: we just saw the following ad play on CNBC. He brought out the big guns, including Emmitt Smith and Robert Rodriguez, the director of "Sin City" and "Spy Kids."  The full website of the campaign ó TexasWideOpenForBusiness.com ó is also not to be missed.
Why are stocks, bonds, and commodities all selling off at the same time? Ever since the release of the April employment report on May 3 ‚Äì which came in better than the market expected, as evidenced by the big sell-off in U.S. Treasuries that ensued ‚Äì all anyone has been talking about is the dreaded "taper." Because the Federal Reserve is by far the biggest player in the Treasury market, the concern is that when it makes the eventual decision to taper back the pace of the bond purchases it makes under its open-ended quantitative easing program, markets could destabilize as a result. And thanks to the Fed's introduction of the historic Evans rule in December, which ties the timetable for reversing monetary stimulus directly to numerical thresholds for unemployment and inflation, the Treasury market has become increasingly more sensitive to economic data¬†releases in 2013. When labor market releases like the employment report bear a positive surprise, bonds tend to get crushed. Sure enough, since the release of the April employment report on May 3, the bond market rally that began in mid-March has reversed, and Treasury yields have shot up to their highest levels in over a year. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg10-year yields fall 43 basis points to 1.63% on May 2 from 2.06% on March 11 before reversing and rising 54 basis points to 2.24% on June 11. The sell-off in U.S. Treasuries has had profound implications around the world. Across emerging markets,¬†currencies, sovereign debt, and equities have taken a bath¬†as the U.S. dollar strengthens on rising yields and U.S. economic comeback bets.¬†At the same time, China has been releasing disappointing economic data, further stoking fears that the commodity supercycle so many emerging economies rely on is indeed coming to an end. But the real story is how the turmoil in the Treasury market has hit Japan ‚Äì which is conducting a risky economic experiment of its own ‚Äì and in turn, how what's happening in Japan is now hitting Europe. In early April, the Bank of Japan launched the largest central bank bond buying program ever (relative to the size of its economy). The program is intended to pin yields on Japanese government bonds (JGBs) at such low levels that Japanese investors will reallocate a greater portion of their portfolios toward riskier assets, but because of the way it has been implemented, it's had the exact opposite effect ‚Äì yields have been going up. The size of the bond purchases the Bank of Japan is making, combined with the infrequent and sporadic nature of the purchase schedule, has overwhelmed the JGB market. "Although the BoJ's easing measures were aimed at absorbing duration and keeping yields stabilized at low levels,¬†at this point, all they are doing is injecting volatility into the market," said BofA Merrill Lynch interest rate strategists Shogo Fujita and Shuichi Ohsaki last month. In other words, Japanese markets had already found themselves in a precarious situation even before the earthshaking Treasury sell-off that began following the release of the April U.S. employment report in early May. And it wasn't just the JGB market. For months, Japanese equities had been racing higher, making Japan one of the hottest stock markets in the world. At the same time, the yen had been tanking against the U.S. dollar (since September, when the experimental "Abenomics" stimulus program began to come into the market's view). Indeed, around the world, market volatility (especially in currencies) ‚Äì the traditional nemesis of central bankers and policymakers everywhere ‚Äì was rising. Yet despite this, these same policymakers ‚Äì the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (G20) ‚Äì came out in April and endorsed the Bank of Japan's actions. Russ Certo, who heads interest rate trading at Brean Capital, described the G20's April statement on Japan as "shocking." "I just didn't understand. Policymakers came back and actually advocated support for what the Bank of Japan was doing," said Certo. "And what the Bank of Japan was doing was creating multiple standard deviation moves in different asset classes, which typically at almost all costs was reviled ‚Äì¬†against the tide of what policy generally tries to achieve." Why, then, did world policymakers endorse the Bank of Japan's actions? Perhaps it's because they welcomed the flood of liquidity BoJ easing would bring to global markets. Certo describes the quantitative easing program launched by the BoJ in April as the "cherry on top of the global central bank policy scheme that had co-existed for years ... a finality to policy, almost." And some of the biggest beneficiaries of the BoJ stimulus in global markets outside Japan, Certo argues, have been peripheral eurozone sovereign bonds in countries like Spain and Italy (i.e., "the things that we've all been worried about ...¬†the sovereign Europe stuff that people priced in as a credit risk"). Most would agree. "Peripherals ‚Äì and the European market in general ‚Äì are benefiting from extraordinary support from the Fed and the BoJ," say Deutsche Bank economists Mark Wall and Gilles Moec. "The global compression in the yields of risk-free assets makes peripheral bonds attractive, via the displacement of core countries‚Äô investors in search for yields." In May, though, with the onset of the rise in Treasury yields sparked by better-than-expected employment data and resulting fears over Fed tapering, things began to take a turn in the other direction. On May 9, as improving U.S. economic data and rising U.S. Treasury yields sent the dollar higher, the dollar-yen exchange rate finally broke through the crucial ¬•100 level. The breach of ¬•100 sparked a sharp sell-off in the JGB market as exotic currency derivatives designed to take advantage of ultra-low interest rates ‚Äì called power reverse dual currency swaps (PDRCs) ‚Äì were triggered in Japan, causing a wave of hedging activity in the bond market. Despite the concerning increase in JGB yields and volatility, the yen continued to weaken against the dollar and Japanese stocks continued to rise, suggesting that everything was still under control for the moment. (Indeed, the dollar-yen exchange rate has become the quintessential yardstick for both the success of Japan's policy experiment and the global liquidity situation.) Fast forward to May 22. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, when asked whether the Fed might begin tapering back stimulus by Labor Day (September 2) in a testimony before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, said, "I don't know. It's going to depend on the data." Beholden to the data, thanks to the introduction of the Evans rule in December. The S&amp;P 500 fell 1.9% from its intraday high before Bernanke's comments to close down 0.8% on the day, and the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield shot up 11 basis points to 2.04%. "Taper" talk reached a crescendo. The next day, the Japanese stock market plummeted 7.3%. The dollar-yen exchange rate reversed violently as the yen strengthened. And Europe got wrecked. "When you see a reversal in dollar-yen, the first thing you should link ‚Äì if you're a global macro player that has the capacity to enter these transactions ‚Äì would be to look at peripheral Europe," said Certo. Last Thursday, the strong-dollar trade was tested again after ECB President Mario Draghi gave a press conference on ECB monetary policy that rung a hawkish tone in the market (another sign that global liquidity was decreasing). The euro soared higher against the dollar on his comments, and the yen did the same. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergPercentage change in key stock indices and bond yields since May 22, when Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke sparked a global market sell-off (click to enlarge).Since May 22, the Nikkei 225 has fallen 15%, the Euro Stoxx 50 is off 6%, and the S&amp;P 500 is down 1%. Meanwhile, the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury is up 17 basis points, while Italian and Spanish government bond yields are up 44 and 48 basis points, respectively. In Japan, 10-year yields are flat from May 22 levels, but have been extremely volatile. And the dollar has fallen 6% against the yen. "In our mind, the single most important accomplishment of the Fed over the past four years is having engineered a dramatic decline in the volatility of long-term interest rates," says BofA Merrill Lynch Head of Global Rates &amp; Currencies Research David Woo. Now, that's all changing. Are central bankers finally starting to lose control of their most powerful policy instrument, the long-term interest rate? That's one way to look at it. One could also assert that central banks are still very much in control, but are simply encouraging the sell-off. Deutsche Bank's Wall and Moec argue that, at least in Europe, Mario Draghi may be doing just that, for political reasons: When asked about the decision by the European Commission to allow France two more years to comply with its deficit target, Draghi was very critical ‚Äì implicitly ‚Äì of the fact that Paris was not responding to the push for more reforms. The ECB went as far as to say that countries should not get ‚Äútoo optimistic about the present market condition; don‚Äôt interpret the present market condition as one that would allow any protracted relaxation of fiscal standards without undertaking structural reforms at the same time, without increasing competitiveness‚Äù.  We link this to Draghi‚Äôs speech last Sunday when he reminded his audience that OMT was there to protect against redenomination risk, not necessarily to compress spreads to the current levels. The central bank seems to be ready to live with higher yields in Europe, if that is what it takes to deal with governments‚Äô free riding. Yet regardless of Draghi's intentions or what is playing out in Europe, the biggest debate in the marketplace still surrounds the Federal Reserve's tapering plans (we may get more insight after the Fed's FOMC monetary policy meeting next week). That's why the U.S. Treasury volatility market is really the only one that matters anymore.
Flickr/tnarikSome say 15,000 bottles of fine wine from the Burgundy and Bordeaux regions of France ain't what it used to be. Nonsense. For ex-Goldman Sachs trader Andrew Cader, it meant a loan from his former employer, reports BusinessWeek's Miles Weiss. Goldman Sachs‚Äôs move stands out because private banks that lend money to wealthy clients against assets such as artwork and real estate have been less willing to extend loans backed by fine wines, said four specialty lenders and attorneys.¬† As the U.S. puts pressure on proprietary trading, firms are looking more toward private banking. Loaning against appreciating high-class assets, such as wine, may be be tempting for investment banks struggling to find new revenue. The Liv-ex 100 Fine Wine Index, an industry benchmark that reflects the price movement on 100 of the most sought-after wines that have an established secondary market, has increased at an average annual rate of 11 percent during the past decade through April, outpacing the 7.9 percent total return for the Standard &amp; Poor‚Äôs 500 Index. Wines may have outperformed the stock market, but counterfeit wine pours throughout the vintage market. Billionaire magnate William Koch recently filed a series of lawsuits, winning one over 24 bottles of phony Bordeaux.
Markets opened in the red this morning with the Dow down 151 points.  The S&amp;P Nasdaq were both off about 1%. But they're paring their losses now. The Dow is now down 57 points, while the S&amp;P 500 is off about 0.5% and the Nasdaq is down 0.31%. The dollar is also starting to come back against the yen. 10-year Treasury yields have also come off their highs of the day. Here's a quick look at the S&amp;P 500 Fin VIz
Lululemon Athletica's stock is down over 16% today to $68.50. This comes after the company announced yesterday that CEO Christine Day is stepping down. The board has hired an executive search committee, and Day will stay on as CEO until her replacement is chosen. The stock also saw a few downgrades. UBS cut it to 'neutral' from buy and lowered its price target to $72.¬† Meanwhile, Canaccord Genuity's Camilo Lyon wrote:¬† "Despite good Q1 results that beat our estimates (32c vs. our 30c), the surprising announcement of CEO Christine Day‚Äôs departure is the relevant development that will weigh on the stock in the near term. "...In our opinion, LULU remains a strong retail growth concept, but we are lowering our P/E multiple to 30x (~1x PEG) from 35x, resulting in our price target reduction to $87 from $92." Here's a look at that stunning decline: Bloomberg
AP ImagesWith the Stanley Cup finals happening, we have decided to share with you our best hockey players in finance list.¬† It appears Wall Street firms have a penchant for hiring these super competitive athletes. ¬†We tracked down a bunch of former professional hockey players and college stars who are now working on Wall Street as traders, financial advisers, hedge funders and bankers. ¬† So check out our round up of some of the best ice hockey players in the financial services industry. ¬†(Note: These names are not in any particular order). ¬† If we're missing any big names, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com with your nomination. ¬†Please include a photo.¬†
BloombergMike MayoAfter attending shareholder meetings for the first time ever, bank analyst Mike Mayo has developed a prescription for the ideal annual gathering ñ or rather, an Rx for companies that want to try to make their meetings useful and productive for serious investors instead of just an occasion for free food and coffee or other freebies. His five keys: 1. Location:†Hold it somewhere that is easy for large institutional investors to reach. Memo to Goldman Sachs: That doesnít mean Salt Lake City. Yes, itís lovely that the bank has lots of employees there, but companies are run for the benefit of shareholders and the same rule should apply to annual meetings. In the same spirit, donít save rows of the premium seats up front for management and employees. Make those spots available to shareholders, who, after all, are the companyís owners. Would you insist on labeling the front rows at a meeting for yourself and your colleagues and letting your boss stand at the back? 2. Take your time:†Directors might want to get to the ìreal businessî of committee and board meetings rapidly, and prefer to rush through the official annual meeting proceedings. Mayo urges them to ìslow down.î Again, it boils down to recognizing who really owns the company. You donít disrespect shareholders by telling them that internal board business is more important than their questions and their concerns, especially on the one day a year set aside for investors to meet with management and directors. 4. Accountability: At many companies, the heads of business divisions get their five or ten minutes in the spotlight at the annual meeting. Why not, Mayo suggests, extend the practice to board committee chairs? ìLetís hear from the people who oversee compensation, risk and other board committees, so they can tell shareholders what issues they see, what has happened in the past year, and so on.î 5. Food: It isnít about the free food, says an exasperated Mayo. An annual meeting is a chance to hold not just management but directors accountable ñ and to do that, he is even willing to suggest that companies provide little more than coffee. Free food at annual meetings may be a sacred cow, but ìitís a distraction,î Mayo huffs. Stick to business.
Reuters/Peter JosekGold prices first fell below the $1,400 per ounce level in April. For central banks that bought up 534.6 metric tons of gold last year this hasn't been a good time. Gold is well off its 52-week high of $1,804. Global gold holdings totaled 31,793.9¬†tonnes as of June 2013, according to the latest report from the¬†World Gold Council. This is up from 31,735.4 in May. Note: CBGA refers to the Central Bank Gold Agreements.¬†The first Agreement (CBGA 1) ran from September 27, 1999 to September 26, 2004.¬† The second Agreement (CBGA 2) ran from September 27, 2004 to September 26, 2009. The third Agreement (CBGA 3) will run for five years from September 2009.
screenshotAre you this guy?Opinions vary about the 29-year-old government contractor who leaked national security secrets and accused the government of building a Big Brother "surveillance state" that records nearly all human communications and tramples all over basic privacy rights. Some people think this contractor, Edward Snowden, is a hero. Other people think he's a traitor. Other people, including me, have yet to make up their minds. But Edward Snowden, wherever he is, has had his say. So now it's time to hear from some of the professionals who work for the organization that Snowden violated his professional duty, broke the law, and, in the eyes of many, betrayed his country to rat on. Is the National Security Agency really a horrible Big Brother "panopticon" organization that has become obsessed only with increasing its own power? Have all the people who work at the National Security Agency sold their souls to the devil and gotten drunk on the dream of electronic omnipotence? Do you folks regularly trample all over the Constitution? OMEGAOr this guy?Or is Edward Snowden basically a "grandiose narcissist," as the legal writer Jeff Toobin called him yesterday -- a naive young man who unfairly smeared hundreds of thousands of good people who are devoting their professional lives to protecting America? Feel free to send me your side of the story any time at†hblodget@businessinsider.com. Or, if you're scared to use the electronic communications that you all are supposedly recording all of, just drop a big fat package of documents in the mail to 257 Park Avenue South, NY NY 10010. America looks forward to hearing your side of this! ______ ADDENDUM: While we're having this conversation, there are a few questions I would specifically love to hear your answers to:
CBS News screenshot Princeton University has announced an evacuation after a bomb threat.  Here is the full statement: There has been a bomb threat to multiple unspecified campus buildings. Please evacuate the campus and all University offices immediately and go home unless otherwise directed by your supervisor. Public Safety officers and Princeton Police will direct drivers leaving the campus and those without cars will be directed to evacuation sites. You will receive an update later today. Do not return to campus for any reason until advised otherwise. A university spokesperson confirmed the evacuation to Business Insider. The university is also tweeting about the threat: This is NOT a test. There has been a bomb threat to multiple unspecified campus buildings. Paul Krugman, a New York Times op-ed columnist and Princeton Professor, writes that his blogging will be interuptted by the evacuation.
Getty Images / Matthew LloydReuters' energy columnist John Kemp makes an eye-popping argument in his latest column: there is now so much shale gas in the world that the price of oil will have to come down to compete with it. He refers to the EIA report that came out yesterday showing new estimates of worldwide shale gas deposits now augment the global natgas supply by a whopping 47%. The report also said shale oil deposits boost overall oil supplies 11%. But there's a key difference between shale oil and shale gas: the recovery rate ‚Äî how much ultimately gets pumped out of a given play. It's been topping out at around 10% for the former, while it reaches up to 30% for the latter. Given those factors, oil, which costs almost four times as much as gas: doesn't stand a chance. Kemp: Until now it has not been clear whether the gap will close mostly through a rise in the price of gas, a fall in the price of oil or some combination of the two. The comparative abundance of shale gas suggests oil prices are much more likely to converge down to gas, rather than the other way around. Given the geological differences,¬†natural gas¬†looks set to be the lower cost way of adding reserves over the next couple of decades. Read the full Kemp piece here ---&gt;
The high-energy, high-stress, and high-pay Wall Street lifestyle attracts a special kind of adrenaline junky. In fact, all CEOs tend to need their fix. Unfortunately adrenaline junkies are also prone to being real junkies too. Fear not, boozy masters of the universe, you can now hire a "sober minder" to ensure you stay on the right path.†The New York Post's Jane Ridley reports:† [Sober minder Chuck Kanner]†is part of an elite team of advisers and confidantes who work undercover, often 24/7, as personal assistants, bodyguards, researchers and potential investors, so the Masters of the Universe can get help for their addictions ó while saving face as they rule the world. But keeping big egos on the straight and narrow isn't exactly easy. Once, when Downing was minding a preppy 35-year-old real-estate mogul in the Hamptons, the man disappeared from his home in his Lexus sports car in the dead of night. He returned after a two-day bender, and slumped onto the bed. Next up was a knock at the door by a bunch of hookers and a dealer. ìThey demanded to know where the money was,î says Downing. ìI told them to scram.î We're not sure we'd have the patience for this job.
Wikimedia CommonsQuick heads up: The market is open and it's not pretty. The Dow is off 151. The S&amp;P and the NASDAQ are both off about 1.2%. This comes amid some serious weakness in Europe (Italy off 2.4%). Emerging markets are getting hammered. Japan fell 1.5% after no more action from the Bank of Japan. In general, ugly day on pretty much every front. For a good background on the factors driving the market lower, see Mohamed El-Erian on the sucking sounds that are getting louder and louder.
The GuardianIn an updated statement on their website, security firm Booz Allen have announced that they have fired NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden. The statement is below, with the updated information in bold: Booz Allen can confirm that Edward Snowden, 29,¬†was¬†an employee of our firm for less than 3 months, assigned to a team in Hawaii.¬†Snowden, who had a salary at the rate of $122,000, was terminated June 10, 2013 for violations of the firm‚Äôs code of ethics and firm policy.¬†News reports that this individual has claimed to have leaked classified information are shocking, and if accurate, this action represents a grave violation of the code of conduct and core values of our firm. We will work closely with our clients and authorities in their investigation of this matter. Interestingly, that salary is considerably lower than the $200,000 salary that Snowden had mentioned to the Guardian. The contractor, which makes 98% of its revenue from government contracts, had confirmed Snowden was an employee on Sunday. The company's stock got slammed in the opening on Monday.
Redgum on flickrIt's okay to spy on them! They're foreign!One bizarre aspect of this new debate about the National Security Agency's surveillance programs is that everyone only seems to be concerned about secret spying on†Americans. When the first allegations about NSA privacy abuses came out, the NSA and White House rushed to reassure everyone: Yes, the surveillance program exists, but it†only spies on foreigners. And for a day or two, that actually appeared to satisfy everyone. Oh, we're only recording, tracking, and analyzing the communications of foreigners? Well, okay then. We just wanted be sure that the privacy abuses and Big Brother stuff wasn't being used on Americans. Then, of course, someone revealed that the NSA programs also gather data on Americans and everyone went insane about privacy violations again. In other words, Americans seem to be fine about any kind of U.S. government spying as long as it's focused on "foreigners." They just go crazy when the same tactics are used on Americans. That's odd. And a bit disturbing. Because most people in the world happen to "foreigners." And most of these foreigners are as non-violent, law-abiding, and deserving of basic privacy rights and due process as most Americans. Some of these "foreigners," in fact, are friends, family, colleagues, and customers of Americans. And most of the billions of users of Facebook, Google, Yahoo, and other major communications service providers whose communications the NSA is "intercepting" are foreigners. There about ~7 billion "foreigners" in the world, in fact, and the U.S.'s Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act apparently gives the U.S. government complete freedom to spy on all them. If all ~7 billion "foreigners" in the world were likely to be potential terrorists, and the 300 million Americans were not potential terrorists, this logic might make sense. But as recent events in Boston have shown, Americans can also be potential terrorists.† These "foreigners," moreover, also constitute the vast majority of the users and customers of Google, Facebook, Yahoo, and other American tech companies. So the idea that these companies would voluntarily and happily allow the U.S. government to spy willy nilly on these "foreigners" is both outrageous and offensive. What this renewed focus on U.S. government intelligence programs has revealed, in other words, is not just the concern that these surveillance programs may now be going too far. It is that some Americans still don't appear to appreciate that we now live in a highly globalized world. In this globalized world, the rules and laws of one country increasingly need to be considered in a broader context. †And assurances that massive American spying programs are only focused on "foreigners" won't come as much comfort to U.S. allies around the world, not to mention the billions of customers who have helped make some of our companies the most powerful and richest on the planet.
Decoupling might be my least favorite word to describe financial markets. †Almost every time Iíve ever heard any thesis about decoupling, it has turned out to be a sham in retrospect. †Decoupling is a comfortable intellectual crutch, but rarely an apt description of todayís financial world. †Money flows too quickly, too easily across borders. †Severe distress in large swathes of the world economy quickly lead to at least some distress in practically all parts of the global economy. Thatís the main reason Iíve been focused so intently on the emerging market meltdown over the past month. †I mentioned the large moves lower in emerging market currencies a couple weeks ago, and those routs have only gotten worse since then. †Meanwhile, overnight, some of the equity market leaders of the emerging market rally over the past few years were slammed. †Here are the 4 year daily charts of the Southeast Asian equity markets that got hit last night by 3-5%: Indonesia: 4 year daily chart of Jakarta Composite Index, Courtesy of Bloomberg Philippines: Philippine Stock Exchange Index 4 year daily, Courtesy of Bloomberg Thailand: Bangkok Stock Exchange of Thailand Index 4 year daily chart, Courtesy of Bloomberg † All three markets are still above their 200 day moving averages (black), though all are now trading below their 50 day moving averages (pink). †The long-term charts are very similar, showing the strength of the equity market rally in Southeast Asia (one of the better long-term economic and demographic stories for the next decade). †However, the short-term weakness is one more sign of the cracks building in global financial markets. The warnings signs have been building in the last few weeks, kicked off by Japanís 7% down move on May 23rd. †I discussed the importance of Abenomics to the desire for risk appetite in all assets in my Macro Wrap that day, which turned out to be my most read post of the year. †Since then, we have continued to see a strong correlation between movements in the Yen and risk appetite in general. †We are greeted this morning by a Yen stronger by 2% against the dollar, and lo and behold, SPX futures are down 1%, European equity markets are down 2%, and commodities are down 1-2%. That is not a picture of a global investor base moving its assets based on the attractiveness of individual investments. †It is the definition of a COUPLED world, not a decoupled one. †So manage your risks accordingly. †And please, please, please, donít mention decoupling to me.† 
Dislocated liquidity conditions -- as in wider and more volatile bid-offer spreads, considerably less intermediation appetite among dealers, etc. -- are cascading down from the most levered market segments. The direct and immediate causes are: In essence, the liquidity underpinnings of markets can no longer support the overall positioning of investors overly comforted by the prolonged and repeated interventions of hyper active central banks using experimental policies.† Determining whether this is just a temporary blip or what economists call a ìmultiple equilibriumî (i.e., rather than mean revert, an unpleasant outcome increases the probability of a subsequent worse outcome) is essentially a call on two main issues: the health of the underlying fundamentals relative to market pricing, and the availability of balance sheets to step in with stabilizing liquidity. Given current indicators, this periodic phase of dislocation in market liquidity -- and they do occur occasionally -- is likely to continue in the immediate period ahead.† In the process, look for some attractive pockets of value to emerge.
Wikimedia CommonsSummer gets underway with a lot of beating wings as millions of butterflies travel home. This week, many northern states are seeing their first Monarch butterfly of the season. Monarchs migrate from their winter home in Mexico to summer homes across the United States. The ìbutterfly effectî is a term from a pioneer of chaos theory, Edward Lorenz; his 1972 presentation†Predictability: Does the Flap of a Butterflyís Wings in Brazil Set Off a Tornado in Texas?†describes the idea that a tiny event can start a chain reaction and have large and wide-reaching effects. It is why those seven-day forecasts for the weather are only right a small percentage of the time, and why it can be so challenging to predict markets with millions of seemingly random and tiny events each triggering a ripple effect that could cause a major impact half a world away. We know the big changes and events the markets face in the second half of 2013: the potential end of the Federal Reserveís (Fed) bond-buying program, the need for Congress to craft a deal to avert the debt ceiling, the German elections and path of growth in Europe are a few examples. These 2,000 pound butterflies will be closely watched. But what are the less watched, smaller changes and events taking shape that, through a rippling chain of events, may have just as great an effect on the worldís markets? Farmland†ñ Over the past several years, U.S. farmland prices have soared as grain prices rose and the Fed drove interest rates to historic lows. What happens now is that grain prices are falling as global output surges, yet U.S. farmers are suffering from a swing from a drought last year to too much rain this year, limiting their production as they lose global market share to foreign competition. Furthermore, the Fed is contemplating ending its bond-buying program later this year, which is already pushing up borrowing rates. These trends could lead to a reversal in land prices that could in turn be felt well beyond the farm. The U.S. Farm Credit System is a government-sponsored enterprise that provides federal guarantees for bad loansómuch like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac helped to fuel the U.S. housing boom. While a much smaller potential financial fiasco than the housing bust, financial companies with exposure may suffer. Also, investors around the world have poured billions into farmland as a ìreal assetî in recent years and may see losses. LPL State Budgets†ñ† An unexpected state budget surplus in California and other states is turning the fiscal policy debate around. Policymakers are now focusing on what to spend on rather than cut. While long-term budget challenges remain unaddressed, the current year surplus is estimated to be over $1 billion by the California Office of the Governor and the Legislative Analystís Office and comes just after the state was facing a deficit of nearly $60 billion. In states recently reporting budget surpluses, including Texas, Iowa, Indiana, Tennessee, South Dakota, Utah, Hawaii, Florida, and Wisconsin, legislative battles have turned to tax cuts, rehiring workers, and spending on bridges and roads. If the small series of improvements in state budgets continues, the fiscal drag that for years has been felt at the state and local level on hiring and spending may turn to a fiscal boost, with all potentially positive ramifications<U+2009>ó<U+2009>U.S. growth, employment, and profit<U+2009>ó<U+2009>for the stock market. While a stronger credit profile may be a plus for municipal bonds, rising rates may result from better economic growth prospects and pressure municipal bond prices. Manufacturing†ñ This weekís data reveal a tough climate for manufacturing. On Monday, June 3, the widely-watched Institute for Supply Management (ISM) Manufacturing Index dropped below 50, indicating output is no longer expanding. And on Friday, June 7, the employment report revealed that the U.S. economy lost manufacturing jobs for a fourth straight month and that manufacturing jobs have been stalled for about a year. However,†with wages rising in China and the boom in U.S. energy production, there are some small changes taking place that if part of a larger series of ripple effects could herald a renaissance for U.S. manufacturing.†U.S. oil production has reversed its three-decade decline. The International Energy Agency forecasts that the United States could become the worldís largest oil producer by 2020 and may be energy self-sufficient by 2035. In the 1940s and 50s when the United States was the worldís largest producer of oil, U.S. manufacturing also led the world. Companies are taking notice. With U.S. manufacturing plants running above full capacity, Ford recently announced plans to increase North American manufacturing capacity by 200,000 vehicles in 2013, adding jobs and expanding production lines. In late May,†Apple revealed that Texas will be the site of a new $100 million plant that will make Apple products in the United States for the first time since the 1990s. Could the recent spate of weak readings on the state of U.S. manufacturing merely be the calm before the storm? Weather†ñ In 2013, the†United States†experienced the coldest spring in 16 years, measured in heating degree day deviations from normal. This followed 2012ís warmest spring in over 25 years. This has likely acted as a drag on economic activity. A cool wet spring can have many small effects on behavior. It depresses sales of warm weather clothing, people avoid shopping for cars and mountain bikes, fewer head out to restaurants or the mall, and it hits hard on businesses that depend on outdoor activity such as beach hotels or concessions. This cloud over the spring economic data may lift and may lead to a pickup in economic activity as pent-up demand is released. In turn, this could lead to stronger-than-expected economic reports in the coming months that could prompt optimism about the state of the economy and prompt the Fed to feel the pace of growth warrants a slowdown in the pace of its bond-buying program. Monarch butterflies are one of the few insects that can cross the Atlantic; if the winds are right they can make it from North America to the United Kingdom.†Wherever they are, anywhere in the world, small events can interact with others to start the winds of change to blow and shape the investing environment.
The Indian rupee plunged to a record low of 58.98 per dollar on Tuesday. The Reserve Bank of India is reported to have intervened and sold U.S. dollars to stem the rupee's decline. The rupee has fallen about 5.6% against the dollar in the past month. This is part of the overall selloff in everything related to emerging markets. But in a report out last week, Deutsche Bank's Taimur Baig and Kaushik Das wrote that the rupee will rally against the greenback in the second half of the year.¬† "Four times since 2008 there have been instances of fears about the rupee-dollar exchange rate‚Äôs disorderly movement," Baig and Das write. "Each time, the episodes were triggered by the rupee heading toward another all-time low against the USD." In 2008 and 2013 the rupee's depreciated along with other global currencies, while in 2011 and 2012 they were driven by India's "own vulnerabilities." They base this call on 5 key things 1. Inflation is declining. 2. The current account deficit is "likely to correct substantially." 3. The outlook for inflows is positive. 4. Global risk aversion is likely to ease off. 5. "The rupee is appropriately valued, with both the real and nominal effective exchange rates having corrected considerably in recent years." Here's a look at how the rupee has traded against the dollar in the past month: Google Finance
An obviously tired German bank employee fell asleep on his keyboard and accidentally transformed a minor transfer into a 222 million euro ($293 million) order, a court heard. The Hessen labour court heard that the man was supposed to transfer just 62.40 euros from a bank account belonging to a retiree, but instead "fell asleep for an instant, while pushing onto the number 2 key on the keyboard" -- making it a huge 222,222,222.22 euro order. The bank discovered the mistake shortly afterwards and corrected the error. The case was taken to court by the man's 48-year-old colleague who was fired for letting the mistake slip through when verifying the order. The court ruled that the plaintiff should be reinstated in his job. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Photo courtesy of CNBC's Michelle Caruso-CabreraCNBC's Michelle Caruso-Cabrera is known for being opinionated and well-researched. Therefore, she's attracted a fanbase standing from investment bankers to weekend traders.  Caruso-Cabrera is also CNBC's Chief International Correspondent. That means she gets to travel the world for her a lot of her CNBC assignments.¬† She showed us what it's like reporting abroad by sharing photos and captions from her recent trip to Mexico City where she interviewed 3M CEO Inge Thulin and Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim.¬† Her interview with Slim airs today on CNBC. In the meantime, let's take a trip with her.¬†
The¬†National Federation of Independent Business' monthly confidence report edged up 2.3 points in May to hit 94.4, the second-highest level since December 2007. But the index showed growth may be stalling as planned job creation fell one point and reported job creation stalled. Here's the full chart. We're basically suck at that ~94 level: NFIB And here's who gained: NFIB
flickr / Steve SnodgrassThe sell-off in government bonds has gone completely global as concerns over Federal Reserve tapering of monetary stimulus infect the market. Everywhere this morning, bond yields are up huge as investors dump sovereign debt. In the United States, the 10-year yield is up 6 basis points to 2.26%, its highest level in over a year. In the eurozone, French 10-year yields are up 5 basis points to 2.23%, Germany is up 3 basis points to 1.63%, Italy is up 15 basis points to 4.43%, and Spain is up 14 basis points to 4.471%. Portuguese 10-year yields are up 37 basis points to 6.49%, and Greek yields are up 93 basis points to 10.28%. Elsewhere in the developed world, the Japanese 10-year yield is up 5 basis points to 0.88%, Canada is up 5 basis points to 2.25%, Australia is up 11 basis points to 3.40%, and Switzerland is up 10 basis points to 0.84%. Moving to emerging markets, Brazilian 10-year yields are up 14 basis points to 4.03% Mexico is up 14 basis points to 3.46%, Russia is up 15 basis points to 3.90%, and Turkey is up 31 basis points to 4.53%. Treasuries and emerging market bonds have been selling off in recent sessions, but today, it definitely looks like the purge is accelerating. Meanwhile, stocks are selling off globally as well. The Japanese Nikkei closed down 1.5% overnight following the latest Bank of Japan policy meeting. In Europe, stocks have been heading lower all morning and most are trading near their lows of the day. Spain is down 2.7%, and Italy is down 1.7%. France is down 1.9%, and Germany is down 1.7%. "Stocks across [Europe] are taking a shellacking to the tune of around 2% as rising German bund yields prompt accelerated losses for government bonds around the periphery," says Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Miller Tabak in an email this morning. "Yields on Spanish and Italian debt are rising to the highest in six weeks. The loss of last week‚Äôs lows for equity markets is all too much to bear in most cases and the resilient tone appears to have been snapped like a twig." Commodities are getting hit, too. WTI crude oil is down 1.3%, while Brent crude is down 1.5%, and NYMEX gasoline is down 1.3%., Gold is 1.2% lower, silver is down 1.5%, and platinum is down 1.3%. Agricultural commodities are all in the red with the exception of corn and soybeans, which are both flat. In the United States, S&amp;P 500 futures point to an open down 0.9%. Meanwhile, the U.S. dollar is 1.9% lower against the Japanese yen, and the euro is down 0.1% against the dollar.
REUTERS/Murad SezerGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
If you're just waking up, then you'll see that emerging markets are getting routed again. Whether its Thai stocks, Brazilian bonds, or the South African Rand (its currency) investors are dumping it all. This is a complex topic, and there are some idiosyncrasies that make each country different from another (of course), but there are 3 big themes. The first one is the rise in US interest rates. For the first time in awhile, real US 10-year interest rates (which is nominal interest rates adjusted for inflation) have turned positive. FRED More importantly than the fact that they've turned positive is the fact that there's just been a big spike in US real rates. Money flows to where interest rates are high or rising. When real rates in the US were collapsing, that pushed a wall of liquidity out into the emerging world looking for yield. Now that things are reversing, that wall of liquidity is coming back, being sucked out of the emerging world, causing all of the ructions we're seeing. The next factor is the slowdown in China. Many emerging markets are in some way levered to exports to China. The China slowdown is one of the big stories of the year (confirmed with weak data over the weekend) and so this continues apace. And then finally, there's the commodity slowdown, which is related to the China slowdown. A lot of emerging markets are commodity players. As you can see, it's been a rough several months for commodity prices (as the generic chart of the CRB commodity index shows below) and this takes a toll on these economies. Bloomberg There are many more stories in all of this, but these are the big themes to watch.
REUTERS/StringerThe day started off somewhat quietly, if negative in tone, for global markets. But things have gotten worse no matter where you look. The yen is strengthening violently, as dollar-yen falls below 97. This yen strengthening comes in the aftermath of a BOJ decision to remain on course, and not do anything new. That lead to a 1.5% decline in the Nikkei during normal trading, but since then futures have weakened further. Meanwhile, the emerging market rout continues apace, as markets in Thailand, Indonesia, and the Philippines got smashed. By the same token, we've seen ugliness in South African and Australian currencies today. In the wake of all this, other markets are taking it on the chin. Italy is now down 1.9%. Not helping matters is growing concern over a German constitutional court case on the validity of the OMT, the ECB's unused plan to back up government sovereign debt. Germany itself is now down about 1.2%. Meanwhile, US futures are at their lows of the morning.
APThe big story in global markets is the overall rout in emerging markets. Currencies have been getting slammed. Government bonds prices in local currencies have been getting worked. And equities have really stunk. Last night was particularly bad for emerging Asia. A few of the ugly points on the scoreboard. Thailand fell 4.5%. Jakarta lost 3.9%. The Philippines lost 4.6%. Meanwhile, India is down another 1%, as the Rupee remains near all-time lows against the dollar.
London shares opened lower on Tuesday, as mining stocks tumbled further amid worries about the Chinese economy, the world's second largest. The benchmark FTSE 100 index fell 42.14 points or 0.66 percent to 6,358.31 points at 8:40 am. On Saturday, Beijing reported a sharp slowdown in exports in May from April, while imports unexpectedly dropped owing to weakness in the domestic economy and sluggish demand overseas. Official data meanwhile showed Chinese industrial production, which measures output at the country's factories and mines, rose at a slower pace than during the previous month while fixed asset investment also came in below expectations. "The FTSE continues to drag, weighed down by mining stocks after weekend Chinese data came in below forecasts signalling weak demand in raw materials," said Lee Mumford, a sales trader at Spreadex. Fresnillo fell the most in early trade, dropping 2.95 percent to 1,085 pence, while Evraz shed 2.89 percent to 121 pence. AngloAmerican fell 2.57 percent to 1,385 pence and Glencore Xstrata eased 2.35 percent to 306.90 pence. The only non-mining stock in the leading decliners was SABMiller, down 2.41 percent to 3,143 pence. The brewer has big operations in South Africa, where the rand has been weakening sharply, devaluing revenues in sterling terms. The few FTSE gainers included aircraft engine maker Rolls-Royce, up 1.18 percent to 1,195 pence, and microchip specialist Arm Holdings, up 1.15 percent at 879 pence. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Flickr/Tambako the JaguarNEW YORK (Reuters) - More employers in the United States plan to hire workers next quarter than in any period since the fourth quarter of 2008, according to a survey by Manpower Group, the global employment services giant. Manpower's quarterly survey released Tuesday found most employers around the globe were uncertain about hiring more workers in the July through September period given tepid consumer demand. There were certain bright spots, however, with employers in the United States and some parts of Europe feeling cautiously optimistic. "If you look at it from a global perspective, the overall feeling is that there are definitely challenges," said Manpower's CEO Jeff Joerres. But he said employers are more optimistic than in past months about global economic prospects. Manpower, which surveyed 42 economies, found that employers in 31 countries and territories planned to hire next quarter. Hiring intentions strengthened in 17 economies, including Spain, Greece and the United States, compared to the previous quarter. Hiring intentions remained unchanged in four economies and weakened in 21, including France, China and India. The United States added 175,000 jobs last month after adding only 149,000 in April, the Labor Department said on Friday. The unemployment rate rose a tenth of a point to 7.6 percent. The United States' net employment outlook ticked forward one point from the previous quarter to a seasonally adjusted plus-12, the report said. The outlook measures the difference between those adding jobs and those cutting jobs. Manpower's index is a directional indicator rather than a predictor of the size of job gains. For the second consecutive quarter, employers in all 50 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico have reported positive hiring plans, Manpower said. Joerres said U.S. companies still have concerns about what will happen next in areas like Europe or China, about healthcare costs and general uncertainty. "In the past, that would shock the system," he said. "Today, we're used to shocks." More than one in four employers in the U.S. construction sector have said they will hire in the quarter beginning in July, the strongest outlook since before the global recession. This is a positive sign for the housing market, Joerres said. In Europe, hiring has stalled with growing uncertainties among employers, the report said. But Joerres said the region has had some positive indicators, including in Greece, which has seen its still-negative hiring outlook improve for four consecutive quarters. "We're not saying Europe is out of the woods," Joerres said. "It's that Europe is still moving and driving towards an overall solution rather than falling off the cliff, and that's positive for the rest of the world." 'LESS EMERGING AND MORE MATURE' Hiring outlooks weakened in most of the Asia Pacific region, most significantly in India, which reported the weakest expectations since joining Manpower's survey eight years ago. While none of the Indian employers surveyed by Manpower said they intended to reduce their workforce this quarter, the hiring expectations dropped 6 points from the previous quarter and 28 points from a year earlier to a plus-18. Joerres said the decline is partly due to the slowdown of India's business process outsourcing industry, which has matured. "The Indias and Chinas of the world are in some ways less emerging and more mature, and are feeling some of the illnesses of a mature economy," Joerres said. Sixty-one percent of Indian employers have also struggled to find suitable employees, telling Manpower that recent graduates of India's business and engineering schools often lack necessary hard and soft skills. The talent shortage has been an issue worldwide, with a lack of skilled trades workers topping the list. Thirty-five percent of employers reported difficulties in filling positions due to a talent shortage, the highest proportion since 2007. Employers in the United States and Germany, however, reported a smaller talent shortage this year than last year, with the lowest percentages reported in both countries since 2010. Thirty-nine percent of U.S. employers reported difficulties in filling positions, 10 percentage points less than last year, and 35 percent of German employers, 7 percentage points less. (Reporting by Madeline Will; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Another day, another decline for the Aussie dollar, which has fallen below 94 cents against the US dollar. FinViz The latest bout of selling comes after a weekend of very poor Chinese data, which shows falling external trade. The Australian dollar is one of hedge funds' favorite currencies to short, thanks to weak commodity prices, and a weakening Chinese economy, which are of course related ideas.
vimeo/Ruslan FedotowIt's a fairly quiet day. The big news so far is that the Bank of Japan, at its meeting, declined to take any further stimulus measures for now. Japan ended down 1.45%. Other markets are falling as well. US futures are modestly lower, while Italy is down by 0.75%, France is off by 0.75%, and Germany is lower by 0.73%. Shanghai remains closed for Holiday, but for a reflection of sentiment towards China (which came out with bad data over the weekend) the Aussie dollar continues to sink like a song, falling below 94 cents against the dollar.
