After a big stallout in recent days, Japanese stocks are catching a bid again. Here's the Nikkei, jumping by nearly 2%. Nikkei We're now about a day away from the official start of Japan's new monetary policy experiment, as the BOJ meets under its new chief with aggressive goals about inflation. Meanwhile, shares of Fast Retailing -- parent of retailer Uniqlo -- are surging over 9% to an all-time high.
It's very likely that Q1 was one of the best quarters since the recovery began. Several analysts anticipate that GDP will come in over 3%. But there are already signs of a sputter-out. Yesterday, Dan Greenhaus of BTIG wrote: First, on Sunday March 17, we took up our Q1 GDP forecast to 2.5%. With new data in hand -- specifically Friday‚Äôs spending report and today‚Äôs better than expected construction report -- it now looks like our Q1 GDP estimates have gone radioactive; we now expect the quarter to print solidly above 3.0% if not 3.5%. Secondly is the weaker than expected ISM report. This exacerbates a trend we‚Äôve seen of late where most data points are beating by a smaller percentage related to expectations or outright missing. Economic surprise indices have already turned lower and we repeat; as each of the last several second quarters would attest, this trend bears watching even in the face of optimism. Today, Nomura's Lewis Alexander says the same: Our Q1 GDP estimate is currently tracking 3.3%, with an increase in final sales of 2.0%, and a contribution from inventory accumulation of 1.2 percentage points. Recent economic data, however, have suggested a slowdown in activity as we approach Q2. This lends support to our forecast that there will be a slowdown in growth in Q2 from slower government spending, delayed household adjustment to higher tax burdens, and a smaller increase in inventories. We estimate that US real GDP will grow at an annual rate of 1.4% in Q2, with an increase of 1.2% in final sales. Alexander posts this chart of the Nomura Economic Surprise Index (which measures economic data against projections) to show that there's been a slowdown. Nomura In today's note, High-Frequency Economics also talks about the "Spring swoon," caused by both the sequester and the payroll tax hike. Nobody's freaking out too much, and most data's been fine. But the big theme is: Very strong Q1 followed by a meh Q2.
Bloomberg TelevisionJohn SilviaIt's jobs week in America.† On Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will be releasing its March Employment Situation Report. Economists expect the report to show that U.S. companies added 199k new jobs during the month. Wells Fargo economist John Silvia expects the number to beat expectations and come in at 221k, bringing the unemployment rate down to 7.6 percent. "We expect payroll growth to continue and anticipate sustained average monthly payroll growth in the 200,000 range by the end of the year," he wrote in a new research note. But don't get too encouraged by his short-term optimism. While Silvia expects GDP to return to trend growth and the unemployment rate to revert to a 6.4 percent level, he believes that the U-6 unemployment rate is now doomed to stay much higher than we've seen in the past. U-6 is a broader measure of unemployment that also considers those who are working part-time out of necessity because they are unable to secure a full-time job. From Silvia: Despite the persistently high unemployment rate, the U-3 unemployment rate, the benchmark unemployment rate, shows a mean-reverting tendency around 6.37 percentósurprisingly close to the Fedís guidepost of 6.5 percent. However, our view for many years has been that the labor market of the 21st century is behaving in a way that is different from prior years. In that sense, the U-6 measure of unemployment, which captures the position of the broader labor market, shows evidence of a fundamental shift in the unemployment rate. It appears that the long-run mean of the U-6 unemployment rate is rising, suggesting that there is a growing part-time character to the labor market and less attachment to the traditional model of the full-time job. Here are the two charts Silvia included in his report: Wells Fargo
Ford.comMarch auto sales numbers were just released today, and every major manufacturer gave us the lowdown on just how many of each vehicle they sold last month. Ford leads the list with five models in the top 19, while GM ‚Äì with four models on the list ‚Äì comes in close second. Toyota and Honda each contributed 3 models to the top 19 best-sellers. Hyundai, Nissan, and Dodge models round it out.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. ETF Investors Are Dumping Brazil For Mexico (The Wall Street Journal) The iShares MSCI Mexico Capped exchange-traded fund (ETF) has drawn over $1.4 billion through the last week. Meanwhile money is rushing out of the rest of Latin American ETFs Brazil in particular.¬† Ban Marks, CIO at Minnesota-based Marks Group Wealth Management, told the WSJ that he likes "the long-term growth story for Brazil, but Mexico's transition into a more competitive marketplace for foreign investors is looking better and better." But others warn that this is largely motivated by Mexico's ties with the U.S., considering the recent strength in the U.S. economy, and the underperformance in Brazil. Stocks, Bonds, And Commodities Are Telling Us To Expect Modest Growth (LPL Financial) Jeff Kleintop at LPL Financial notes that stocks, bonds and commodities are decent leading indicators of the economy. According to his read, the S&amp;P 500 index is signaling "a modest slowdown". In the case of bonds, he writes that "a rise in long-term yields relative to short-term yields is indicative of a stronger outlook for economic growth." The rise in the 10-year yield suggests that there will only be about 2 percent GDP growth. Finally, oil prices are "consistent with the current modest pace of manufacturing activity." 97 Years Of Crisis And Stock Market Volatility (JP Morgan Funds) JP Morgan Funds The Stock Market Is Being Propped Up By 'Invisible Buyers' (Citigroup) "The stock market is not a zero-sum game. There's a mistaken tendency to think that a dollar that leaves the equity market translates into a dollar less in the stock market. Equity prices often move on a change in perception typically caused by an upside earnings surprise, a takeover announcement, lowered guidance, etc., such that double digit changes can occur without a single dollar even changing hands at that moment.¬† "Hence, while flows matter, they aren't everything one should consider. Other facets can be as crucial to the understanding of likely stock price direction including economic trends, investor sentiment, valuation and the attraction of competing assets." Public Companies Can Use Social Media To Announce Information (SEC) The SEC has given companies to use social media like Twitter and Facebook to publish or announce information as long as it complies with with Regulation Fair Disclosure (Regulation FD). This means that public companies can use these sites as long as shareholders know where the information will be released. "One set of shareholders should not be able to get a jump on other shareholders just because the company is selectively disclosing important information," said George Canellos, Acting Director of the SEC‚Äôs Division of Enforcement. "Most social media are perfectly suitable methods for communicating with investors, but not if the access is restricted or if investors don‚Äôt know that‚Äôs where they need to turn to get the latest news."
Tesla Motors just announced a "revolutionary new finance product" for new Tesla customers. The press release and related website is riddled with mind-numbing numbers. But the core concept of the† new financing model is quite simple. And it's a win for the buyer. Here is the detail from the press release: After 36 months, you have the right, but not the obligation to sell your Model S to Tesla for the same residual value percentage as the iconic Mercedes S Class, one of the finest premium sedans in the world, made by Daimler (also a Tesla partner and investor). In other words, you own the car, but you have the option to sell it back to Tesla.† You're basically getting the benefits of both leasing and owning a car. Asymmetric Risk Now, Tesla throws out a bunch of numbers to explain how much a Tesla buyer could potentially save.† (Play around with that if you want.) But the bottom line is that the new "financing product" creates asymmetric risk.† In other words, the downside is lopsided toward one party. And that party is Tesla. In effect, Tesla is gambling that you'll like the car so much that you'll keep it. However, they risk getting a load of used Teslas 36 months from now. It'll be the work of actuaries and Wall Street analysts to forecast how many of these cars will come back. Heard Of This Before? This actually isn't a totally new idea.† On Wall Street, this is called a put option.† The holder of a put has "the right, but not the obligation" to sell back an asset at a certain price. Of course, options aren't free.† Investors buy options for a premium. With Tesla, any premium is likely to be priced into the car.
JCPenney has filed its proxy statement with the SEC, and it shows that CEO Ron Johnson isn't getting paid anywhere near what he did the year prior. In 2011, he received $375,000 in base salary and an additional $52.6 million in stock, with†$236,000 tacked on as a non-equity incentive plan. In 2012, he earned a higher base salary of $1.5 million and $388,000 in "other compensation." But, he's not getting any more stock, dropping his total annual compensation from about $53.3 million to around $1.9 million. Sure, the bulk of that stock award was probably part of his signing bonus.† Regardless, his 2012 package represents a 97 percent drop from a year ago. The other main members of his C-suite ó CFO Ken Hannah, COO Michael Kramer, and CTO Daniel Walker ó didn't receive any stock awards either. Johnson missed out on a lot of his incentives, and he only received 44 percent of his target cash compensation. His executive team did a bit better, earning 55 percent. SEC Filing Johnson's in the middle of a massive transformation attempt at the ailing 111-year-old retailer, but so far, sales numbers have been disastrous and some analysts are getting worried about the company's cash flow.
Tesla just announced a new financing program for its cars. One of the eye-popping details is the claim that the Tesla S can be owned for effectively $500 per month. Tesla writes: When considering the savings from using electricity instead of gasoline, depreciation benefits and other factors, the true net out of pocket cost to own a mid-range Model S drops to less than $500 per month.¬† $500 a month is not that much, so if you could really get the car at that price, it would be intriguing. But realistically, it seems not many people will be eligible to do so. Tesla has nicely provided a calculator on the site to figure out your effective cost of ownership. We've selected the mid-range vehicle, and figured out how to get it down to just $446 per month. tesla.com The first problem is that you have to live in a state with generous tax credits. If you don't live in Colorado, California, or a handful of others, the national tax credit won't get you enough of a break. Tesla.com The next problem, and here's the real catch, is that you have to be able to deduct your Tesla as a business expense. That saves you $227/month. But how many people can really claim that deduction? The majority of people can't. Tesla.com And finally there's an assumption that you'll save $100 from not going to the gas station four times per month (assuming each trip requires 15 minutes and your time is worth $100/hour). That's great (time is money) but there's also plenty of time required to charge your TESLA at a charging station. Tesla.com So yes, if you live in one of a few states, and you can deduct your car for business, and you don't have to spend any time charging your Tesla, you can get a mid-range vehicle for effectively under $500, according to their calculator. For most people, no dice. And now if you uncheck all of the boxes above, here's the real cost of ownership: About $940. Tesla
Kim Bhasin / Business Insider Apple is going to start producing the next iPhone this quarter, a recent news report says, with the goal of releasing it during the summer. It's expected to be a boring internal upgrade. No big screen. No massive price chop. No amazing new features that will make people hyperventilate and then faint dead away. Just the same old iPhone 5 with a slightly speedier processor and maybe a new software widget or two. That's the pattern Apple established with its interim upgrades a few years back. That's the pattern Apple is expected to follow this time around. Yes, it would be great if Apple accelerated the introduction of a big-screened iPhone and a cheap iPhone. These products, after all, are likely to be increasingly important to Apple's ability to compete with Samsung and other handset manufacturers in the fastest-growing segments of the market (emerging markets) as well as developed markets like the U.S. in which consumers are rapidly coming accustomed to big-screened phones. But expectations are low for this summer's launch. The big iPhone and cheap iPhone aren't expected until the end of the year. There is one improvement that Apple could make to the existing iPhone 5 that would turn some heads, though. It's an improvement that, ironically, Google hardware boss Dennis Woodside mentioned on Google's last quarterly conference call. It's not an improvement that will make anyone gasp, or cause Apple fans to hyperventilate. But it's an improvement that would radically increase the pleasure, simplicity, and usefulness of the iPhone 5. What's that improvement? Much better battery life. When you're using the iPhone 5 to its full potential--namely, setting the screen to be bright enough to read, using maps and other location-based apps, doing a lot of email, checking news frequently, watching some video, listening to some radio, taking a lot of pictures, and so forth--the iPhone 5's battery life is, at best, disappointing. If you're not careful, you'll drain the phone completely in an hour or two. And then, if you're out and about, you'll be s.o.l. for the rest of the day. Yes, you can implement conservation measures--and have to, unless you want to stranded connection-free. And, yes, you can learn tricks like only firing up apps for a few seconds and then shutting them off completely, keeping the screen dim and switching it off the moment you're done, and so on. If you do all that, you can make it through a day. But who wants to do any of that? Most iPhone owners, and Galaxy SIII owners, and Google Nexus owners just want to use their phones the way they want to use them all day long, without having to worry about running out of power. So much better battery life is a feature that would be worth getting excited about. So, how about it, Apple? Could we maybe skip the faster processor, et al, and just focus on the battery? That would be a great innovation. That would breathe some life into the boring smartphone market. That would be worth getting excited about.
The parabolic move in Bitcoin prices has us thinking about some of the most notorious asset bubbles in history. We were thumbing through some of Jeremy Grantham's old research and saw this great chart from Marc Faber. "I can calculate the movement of stars, but not the madness of men," Newton apparently said after he lost his fortune. GMO
REUTERS/Jacob Slaton More than 10,000 gallons of oil spilled from a pipeline in the town of Mayflower, Ark. over the weekend. Some are using the occasion to restart the debate over transporting fossil fuels across America. In Mayflower itself, the spill has proved an odd mixed blessing. For the 22 households that were forced to evacuate, life as of Tuesday remained far from normal. We spoke by phone with Misty Sobanski, who's still living with her sixteen-year-old daughter out of their suitcases at a nearby Holiday Inn. The smell is just too strong back at their home on Woodside Drive, a nearby street that wasn't even hit by the oil, she said. "I†think it's safer for me and my daughter to stay at the hotel for now," she said.† REUTERS/Jacob Slaton Sobanski added she's satisfied with how Exxon has responded. Displaced residents were able to receive at least $1,800 from the firm, and Exxon reps brought Easter baskets at a town hall meeting Sunday. Both the current occupant and buyer, who was supposed to move in Monday, now face an uncertain future. "Everybody's scared to death about property values," she said. Ironically, just across the railroad tracks the bisect the "two-stoplight" town (as Moore called it), it was an entirely different story: thanks to Exxon's cleanup crews, local business is booming, at least for now. We spoke with an employee at Pizza Pro, just down the street from Realty One, about how the restaurant had been affected by the spill. The man who answered said he wouldn't be able to speak with us ó he was too busy putting together a large order for a crew waiting in their parking lot. Moore herself said she obliged a friend who'd asked her to prepare tacos at a local convenience store.† "They're†getting revenue that they haven't been getting," Moore told us. The cause of the spill remains unknown. Arkansas's attorney general today announced his office would conduct its own investigation.
This morning, Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle took a tour of NYC's super exclusive Core Club, and it's something you should definitely see. The club costs $50,000 to join with annual dues set at $15,000. Members include the likes of Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang and John Rogers of Ariel Investments. All of that gets you amenities like James Beard awarded chefs, a gym, raquetball court, deals with private jet company XOJet... the usual. They're not stopping there though, founder Jennie Enterprise is looking to expand to other globe trotting hotspots Core Club memebers hit. Check out the video from Bloomberg below:
WHOA.Bitcoin continues its tear. And in just the last few minutes, they just spiked up to $115. Just yesterday we were marveling at Bitcoin passing $100. Check out this chart from Clarkmoody.com. Clarkmoody.com For more on what happened today, see here.
Flickr / dekstopStock market sell-offs continue to be short-lived. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,662, +89.1 pts, +0.6 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,570, +8.0 pts, +0.5 percentNASDAQ: 3,254, +15.8 pts, +0.4 percent And now the top stories:
kuminiac / FlickrWith the stock market sitting near all-time highs, some investors are wondering which stocks they should bet against. We compiled a list of the 25 most shorted stocks as measured by short interest as a percent of floating shares. These stocks include for-profit colleges, brick-and-mortar retailers, and direct marketers. High on this list is Herbalife, the multi-level direct marketer of diet supplement which has been the target of hedge fund giant Bill Ackman. But despite the high-profile nature of Ackman's massive short position, it is not the most shorted direct marketer on our list.
Reuters/ Joshua RobertsGoldman Sachs is becoming the most hipster bank of Wall Street. Why? ¬† If you haven't noticed, the investment banking giant has been involved in several cool projects in Brooklyn. The latest one Goldman has been involved with is the revitalization of the Brooklyn Navy Yard, which The Gothamist¬†recently identified the next neighborhood hipsters will want to take over.¬† Anyway,¬†according to a new video¬†on the bank's website,¬†Goldman's Urban Investment Group has been working with non-profit¬†Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation to revitalize the historic shipyard. Specifically, the bank has helped provide capital and find sources of financing for the non-profit to historically renovate Building 128. Building 128, which is¬†located in the heart of the shipyard,¬†will be a hub for "creative class" driven manufacturing. Sounds pretty cool.¬† That's not all Goldman has been involved with in Brooklyn either.¬† The bank also recently backed Brooklyn Flea's Crown Height's food and beer hall¬†and¬†the Loews King Theatre in Flatbush. Then, there's the affordable housing project complete with a supermarket on the ground floor Goldman decided to build in Williamsburg instead of a luxury hotel it initially planned for the site. The biggest hint, though, is that Goldman's CEO Lloyd Blankfein, who is looking hip these days with his new beard, actually has Brooklyn roots. He grew up in a project there called the Linden Houses. Next thing you know they'll be rocking flannel at 200 West.
Bloomberg TVEconomist Martin Feldstein has a piece up at Project Syndicate saying that interest rates are unsustainably low, and that there's a bubble just waiting to be burst in the fixed income world. Over the last few years, there's been a ton of folks saying Treasuries are in a bubble and throughout this time, bonds have mostly rallied further, causing bond bears to tear their hair out in frustration. Advocates of the idea that there's a bond bubble idea usually blame quantitative easing (Fed bond buying). Or they say that the U.S. is a rare safe haven, benefiting from the crises abroad, and that as soon as those crises abate, the bid will evaporate. Anyway, without making a call on which way interest rates will go, it's fairly easy to show that Treasuries are not in a bubble. Back in early March, Ben Bernanke gave a great speech on what's driving rates, and he showed this chart, which deconstructs the factors that drive interest rates. There are three primary drivers: Ben Bernanke, Federal Reserve As you can see, over the last decade or so, there's been a really big decline in the expected path of short-term interest rates (understandably, since the Fed has indicated low rates for a long time). And there's been a very steady drift in inflation expectations, and a big drop in the term premium. In fact, the term premium has gone negative, which means that rather than demanding extra compensation for long-term debt, people are actually willing to pay a premium for it. On this last point, the negative term premium is what people see as evidence of a bubble fueled by the Fed. But that's not it. In a great post responding to Bernanke last month, economist David Beckworth explained why the term premium is negative, and why it's not about QE (which contrary to belief hasn't involved very big purchases): On the latter, Bernanke attributes the term premium's decline to three things: increased interest rate certainty because of the zero lower bound (makes it easier to forecast), the safe asset shortage problem, and the Fed's large scale asset purchases (LSAPs). The first two of these developments are result of the crisis. Only the LSAPs are the Fed's doing. So most of the factors driving down the 10-year treasury yields have been developments outside the Fed. This is consistent with the pattern of safe asset yields falling across the world. It is hard to find support for the FGE view here.†† There is more Bernanke could have said about the LSAPs. First, contrary to the claims of many FGE proponents, the LSAPs have not been terribly large in relative terms. The stock of marketable treasuries went from about $5.13 trillion at the end of 2007 to $11.27 trillion at the end of 2012.† Over this same time, the Fedís holding started near $0.74 trillion and reached $1.65 trillion. The Fedís net gains, then, are approximately $0.94 trillion over this time compared to $6.14 trillion change in marketable debt. (The Fed actually has purchased a little more, but it also sold some securities in 2007.) Bottom line: Inflation is expected to be tame. The Fed is expected to be on hold for a long time. And thanks to hedging needs and rate certainty and partly QE, the term premium has gone negative. Underlying conditions could change. But given current conditions, Treasuries are properly valued and not in a bubble.
Demand for Bitcoins, a completely anonymous digital currency that can be used like real cash, has never been higher. The so-called "crypto currency" is now valued at¬†$115 USD ‚Äì‚Äì triple what it was at the beginning of March. Analysts have likened its rise in value to the ebb and flow of finite commodities like gold. At this point, there hasn't been any real enforcement of federal tax laws on Bitcoin users for one simple reason: Until recently, they weren't worth much. Now that a "Block" of Bitcoins is valued at more than $2,500 today (with its value only rising), there's a good chance Uncle Sam could finally start to take notice. Opponents of that conclusion will argue that Bitcoins aren't recognized anywhere as legal currency but online. No federal government backs them and anyone who owns them isn't protected if the coins are "lost" or stolen. And if the U.S. government doesn't recognize Bitcoins as legal tender, should Bitcoin miners have to report their stash on their taxes? The short answer is yes. We reached out to David D. Stewart, an international tax reporter for¬†Tax Analyst¬†who has widely reported on Bitcoin use, to give us the low down.¬† Plenty of Bitcoin miners have likely been tempted to sell their coins for cash as the value soared in recent weeks. There are a few online currency exchange sites where Bitcoin holders can trade their coins for a number of different currencies, including U.S. dollars. Per Stewart, exchanging Bitcoins for cash is a source of income like any other and should be reported on your taxes. "As soon as you go to exchange them for dollars, you definitely have a tax obligation on that," he said. "There is value in Bitcoins, whether or not people outside the Bitcoin community believe it." Think of Bitcoins like stock. You wouldn't use your Facebook shares to pay for a new car or your monthly groceries, but you still have to report your investment gains on your taxes. The same goes for a home you've sold at a profit. For businesses accepting Bitcoins as tender: While they are few and far between, there are some businesses that accept Bitcoins like any other legal tender. For example,¬†BitBrew.net¬†is a San Antonio, Texas-based business that sells locally sourced coffee beans to Bitcoin holders exclusively. The owner, who goes by the pseudonym Edd, previously owned a dry cleaning business and told Stewart he treats his Bitcoin cash flow on his taxes the same as he would any other profit. "It would be the same if you had a business that did transactions in gold or Euros," Stewart explained. "You are receiving something of value in exchange for the goods. In the simplest terms, the value of what you receive less the cost of what you sell is reportable as the profit of the business and is taxable as income to the business owner." After converting the Bitcoins into U.S. dollars, you would just write it in as part of your revenue. The bottom line: Folks hoping to use Bitcoins to skirt tax laws have a couple of things going for them. First, there isn't a simple way to track down individual miners. The system tracks each and every transaction but doesn't divulge miner identities. Second, like a little kid with a lemonade stand, the IRS isn't going to go after someone who's earning a few extra Bitcoins on the side. Most of the legal attention surrounding Bitcoins has been on the system's propensity to attract money launderers and drug traffickers. "The system of tracking money is based on banking," Stewart said. "I could transfer $100,000 worth of Bitcoins to someone and no one would know about it really." Still, that's a gamble we wouldn't recommend taking. Say the IRS drops by for a traditional audit of your taxes. If they dig around and find a stash of Bitcoin revenue you failed to report, you'll only cause more trouble for yourself. When in doubt, it's wise to consult a tax professional.
Dear Banker,  I have a question about medical debt. My 36-year-old sister just suffered a brain hemorrhage, collapsing at work and sent to the hospital. I am happy to say that she is expected to make a full recovery, but the treatment and ensuing hospital stay involved a week in intensive care, a neurosurgical ‚Äúprocedure,‚Äù numerous CT scans, and many, many medicines which she will take for months, if not her entire life. Although she and her husband have health insurance, they otherwise live on a very tight budget, and we are afraid of the hospital bills that will result from this incident. We ‚Äúheard‚Äù that health-care providers cannot bankrupt people who are unable to pay. If they do the best they can to cover the bills but simply fall short, which they most certainly will, on both counts, does some entity absorb the debt that they cannot pay? The government? The hospital? The insurance companies? I mean, what do they do if the family simply doesn‚Äôt have the money to pay for the essential care she received? Thank you, Concerned Sister (Alexandria, VA) ¬† Dear Concerned, I‚Äôm sorry to hear about your sister‚Äôs condition, and I hope she continues to recover. Your question is a really important one ‚Äì as extraordinary medical costs often bring on a financial calamity, following directly on the heels of a health calamity. I read in your question anguish over your sister‚Äôs health ‚Äì compounded by the anguish of financial insecurity for her even after she achieves a full recovery. A hospital/patient relationship, in my opinion, is distinct from a business/customer relationship or banker/borrower relationship in a way which should change the way debt gets treated. By that I mean neither the hospital nor your sister had a choice about the transaction.¬† Your sister clearly didn‚Äôt choose to get a brain hemorrhage and her choice of treatment ‚Äì whether made by her or her family ‚Äì was made under considerable duress.¬† The hospital, for its part, cannot refuse to treat your sister‚Äôs condition, despite its cost to the institution, or her likely ability to pay.¬† She has to have the treatment to survive ‚Äì given the consequences of not getting treated ‚Äì and the hospital has to treat her, regardless of the financial consequences. This absence of choice makes medical debt different from, say, ordinary credit card debt. In my business experience, and indeed in my basic world view, refusing to pay a debt is akin to stealing.¬† You received something valuable.¬† Reneging on payment means you took that valuable thing without paying.¬† This is hard-assed and perhaps unpopular, but that‚Äôs my view.¬† Don‚Äôt hate me, I‚Äôm an ex-Banker.[1] Medical debt stands out, however because of the absence of choice between customer and provider.[2]¬† Fortunately, most hospitals take this into account and assume a certain amount of financial indigence in their patient population.¬† In other words, most hospitals make a larger provision for non-payment of their bills than a typical business.¬† Traditionally, most hospitals have been run by religious organizations, governments, or universities that consciously blend a financial approach with an ethical non-financial approach to providing service.[3] This approach could mean good news for your sister and your family, as the hospital should be prepared for many patients‚Äô inability to pay their bills in full, including your sister‚Äôs. Now, to return to your specific question of what can happen ‚Äì and what your family should do. ¬†It‚Äôs a myth that the hospital can‚Äôt push your sister into bankruptcy. Of course they can.¬† Here‚Äôs the worst case scenario: Let‚Äôs say she owes $50,000 to the hospital, and she ducks the bill because, as you say, she doesn‚Äôt have the money to pay it.¬† The hospital will refer the bill to a collector, who can initiate a letter and phone campaign to get her attention and urge payments.¬† Occasionally this campaign can threaten her employment, and it certainly will put her through considerable stress. Following continued non-payment, the hospital may refer the bill to a collection attorney, who may take a period of time to sue her in court to obtain a judgment.¬† With a judgment in hand, the hospital can, in most states, garnish her wages[4], place a lien on her home[5], or haul her into a court for a debtor‚Äôs exam to disclose her income and assets. By the time (at least a year from now) that the hospital has obtained a judgment, the amount due will have risen considerably owing to penalties, interest, and lawyer‚Äôs fees. With a court-ordered judgment, her credit will be wrecked so any future borrowing will be either refused or offered at usurious rates. ¬† Needless to say this is a bad place to be in, and bankruptcy could seem like an attractive option for your sister. So what should your sister and your family do to avoid this? Up front, you should make an accurate record of her income and assets. Ideally, for your short-term purpose, this record will show her inability to settle her $50,000 medical debt. Next, find the highest ranking person in the hospital‚Äôs accounts receivable department and plead your sister‚Äôs case, offering to pay something monthly that she can actually afford.¬† If that‚Äôs $100/month great, but if it‚Äôs only $25/month, so be it. At a rate of $100/month ($1,200/year) that $50,000 medical debt will never be paid in full.¬† That‚Äôs ok.¬† At some point, a year or three from now, your sister can return to the hospital receivables department and offer some lump sum amount ($5,000?) based on her tax refund or house refinancing or ability to borrow $5,000 from a bank.¬† Chances are, at some point, the hospital will welcome the partial settlement and offer debt forgiveness on the remainder. Not-for-profit hospitals, in particular, budget for non-payment by many patients.¬† Many may budget a particular amount of non-payment per year, so forgiving the $45,000 your sister can‚Äôt pay in 2013 may be impossible now since it exceeds their figure, but may be possible later because of the budget in¬† a new calendar year. As a finance professional who dealt with many non-paying debtors, I was always receptive to minimal monthly payments from an upfront debtor who made clear to me that non-payment and bankruptcy represented a much worse, mutually-assured destruction option.¬† If the hospital accounts receivable department acts rationally it will welcome some regular, low payments now rather than engage in a collections fight with your sister that they‚Äôre uncertain to get anything from in the future. I hope that helps and good luck to your sister and your family. [1] Of course we can all imagine scenarios in which stealing may be ethically justified, such as a parent attempting to provide food or basic shelter for their minor children.¬† The ethical imperative and human impulse to survive trumps the ethical imperative to not steal in certain circumstances.¬† Yes, I just agreed to accompany my wife to the movie version of Les Miserables.¬† Jean Valjean stole a piece of bread 19 years ago.¬† That‚Äôs fine, I forgive him. [2] The exceptions being optional medical procedures, such as elective plastic surgery.¬† You had better pay for those butt implants in full, or else I will judge you harshly! [3] It‚Äôs also why I have an instinctual aversion to for-profit medical practice.¬† Yes, there may be some additional efficiencies to be gained from market practices, but medical service is not like other services.¬† In the absence of a choice of whether or not to treat your broken leg, or appendicitis, or brain hemorrhage, pure profit motives can create ethical monstrosities. [4] Not in Texas for example and a few other states. [5] Not in Florida for example or Texas and a few other states with ‚Äòhomestead‚Äô exemptions.
John Gress/Getty Images Former French budget minister Jerome Cahuzac today acknowledged that he had a secret overseas bank account that contained around 600,000 euros ($770,000) for some 20 years. Cahuzac, who was a "vocal crusader against the use of overseas tax havens" according to the BBC, resigned from the Socialist party government†two weeks ago after allegations that surfaced in December gathered momentum. However, it could still be a serious setback for Francois Hollande's government and his war on tax evasion. Hollande spent the first year of his presidency in a battle with rogue French citizens who want to pay less tax. The battle was mostly philosophical ó for example, a flagship 75% top tax rate (delayed due to a legal decision) wasn't supposed to raise much money. Regardless, the country refused to back down in the battle with GÈrard Depardieu, with Prime Minister†Jean-Marc Ayrault calling the actor "pathetic" and "shabby" for moving to a town in Belgium to escape new taxes (Depardieu responded by giving up his French passport and accepting Vladimir Putin's offer of Russian citizenship). APJerome Cahuzac.Now the government minister formerly in charge of the battle against tax evasion has been revealed to have been stashing money secretly overseas. This doesn't appear to be casual mistake either ó Henry Samuel of the Telegraph points out that†Cahuzac denied "ever" possessing a foreign bank account before parliament, and he described the allegations as "crazy" and "slanderous". That's quite different from the story he's telling now. French blog Mediapart had first reported on the allegations of a secret Swiss account (later moved to Singapore) in December. In a recording released by Mediapart, someone said to be Cahuzac says: "What bothers me is that I've still got this account open at UBS. UBS is not necessarily the most hidden of banks." Cahuzac's lawyer confirmed to Reuters that he was now under investigation, so the exact details of the account and any tax evasion should see the light of day. Francois Hollande has promptly slammed Cahuzac for the admission. A public statement†says that Cahuzac "has committed an unpardonable moral error. All elected officials must uphold two qualities: serving as an exemplar, and honesty". For Hollande, it's another lost battle in his tax war, making his government look hypocritical at best, corrupt at worst. The French President seems to be collecting these losses ó just two months ago Le Monde called his tax policy a "disaster".
Silver futures are down -2.3 percent today, and look poised to settle at 9 month lows of around $27 an ounce. Just two years ago, prices were trading in the high $40s. What happened? StockTwit's Peter Brandt recently posted a note from research outfit Factor that offers a good explanation. Factor highlights four myths Silver bulls keep telling themselves: They goes on to thoroughly debunk each.¬†We've reposted the paper in which they do so below. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- April Fools Day, Silver Bulls, April 1, 2013 by Peter L. Brandt We've republished it below (don't worry ‚Äî the title refers to a figurative "April Fools" sprung on Silver bulls, not the note itself).
Street EasyAlexander Rovt made his $1.2 billion fortune selling fertilizer, and he's parlayed some of that wealth to make serious investments in NYC real estate. Take his Upper East Side townhouse, for example. According to Forbes, Rovt sank $27 million into the home, including a recent $18 million reservation. It's just one of 35 properties he has in NYC (at last count) including the 30-room, 18,267-square-foot Sloane Mansion on East 68th Street. It's the purchase of the Sloane Mansion that prompted Rovt to sell this smaller house. Not to say that this 6 story, 11,400 square foot townhouse is anything to sneeze at. It boasts five bedrooms, a full gym and sauna, a pool, and five outdoor spaces. The property was first put on the market for $27 million last year, but since then the price has been chopped to $22 million. Not only that, but the listing changed hands from Matthew Lesser at Leslie J. Garfield to Pamela Marcus and Leighton Candler at Corcoran.
Who invented Bitcoin? Given that the crypto-currency's value has skyrocketed in recent weeks thanks to the crisis in Europe and a spate of good publicity,†you'd think we'd know the answer. But the identity of its creator ó or creators ó remains one of the Internet's great mysteries.† Recap: Introduced in 2009, Bitcoin is really just a series of decrypted code that's been cracked by super-industrial computers (the "brute force" required to process the code can take weeks to achieve). Today, Maria Bustillos writes on the New Yorkers' new tech page, "Elements," that it's †widely agreed Bitcoin emanated from an individual calling himself Satoshi Nakamoto. Until his disappearance from the Web, around the spring of 2012, Nakamoto was a visible participant on cryptography forums, where he discussed Bitcoin freely, and published†a nine-page paper†outlining the details of the project. These posts reveal that even in 2008, Nakamoto was able to respond to concerns regarding the scalability of bitcoin with remarkable prescience;†he clearly understood the ramp-up of computing power†that would be required for producing bitcoins as the system grew. But there's near universal consensus that "Satoshi Nakamoto" doesn't exist. Instead, a worldwide guessing game has sprung up over who's behind the Nakamoto handle. † In 2009, the New Yorker's Joshua Davis set out to answer the question, and may have come close.†He narrowed it down to a man named Michael Clear, a grad student at Trinity College, Dublin who'd been named the school's top computer science student as an undergrad. Davis noted Nakamoto's Bitcoin treatises included numerous Britishisms. Among Clear's achievements, Davis says: He was hired by Allied Irish Banks to improve its currency-trading software, and he co-authored an academic paper on peer-to-peer technology. The paper employed British spelling. Clear was well versed in economics, cryptography and peer-to-peer networks. Davis eventually forces Clear to say, "I'm not [Nakamoto], but even if I was I wouldn't tell you." Clear†later denied on his personal website ó since taken down ó that he was Nakamoto. And there is now no real trace of him on the Internet. Meanwhile, other theories have sprung up. Fast Company's Adam Penenberg wrote about the question in 2011 and came up with the names of three men who'd filed a patent for a Bitcoin-related technology: The three inventors listed on patent #20100042841 are Neal King, Vladimir Oksman, Charles Bry, and all three have filed numerous patent applications over the years. Neal King (he also goes by Neal J. King from Munich, Germany) is listed on a number of patent applications, notably "UPDATING AND DISTRIBUTING ENCRYPTION KEYS" (#20100042841) and "CONTENTION ACCESS TO A COMMUNICATION MEDIUM IN A COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK" (#20090196306), both of which seem Bitcoin-y to me. Earlier this morning on CNBC, Rick Santelli said many believe it to be Grigory Perelman, a Russian mathematician. Perelman is perhaps most famous for having†solved a centuries-old mathematical dilemma. That was the first time we'd heard that name, and the only places we could find it were on message boards and Russia Today. We've performed our own cursory search. Via email, security researcher Dan Kaminsky said the consensus among his colleagues is that Nakamoto is... a small group of quants from New York or London, who are deeply experienced software developers. As of deadline, he had not provided further information. It's possible we'll never know who Nakamoto really is. But if Bitcoin's value keeps going up, it may be hard for its inventor to stay low for long.
Screenshot via YouTubeA few months ago, Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg wrote that we are in "the throes of a secular era of disinflation."†  Rosenberg has been a long-term Treasury bull because he's convinced inflation and interest rates will be low for a long time. But in a surprising twist, Rosenberg talks about inflation in his new note. He writes that 1) if the Fed is operating under "a false presumption" that output gap is at six percent, and 2) if the pace of job growth for the past three months becomes the new normal (i.e. an unemployment rate of 6.5 percent in 2014), then the Fed would end its QE program. But if the output gap is actually lower, which is quite possible, then the Fed is burdening its balance sheet, "providing too much juice to the system", and risks inflation down the line.† "To be talking about inflation today sounds ridiculous and until recently, I agreed with that. Maybe it's partly because having been in this business for three decades and seeing the Fed make policy mistake after policy mistake ñ tightening too far in the rate-hike cycles and invariably overstaying its welcome during the easing phases. Today we have a +1.6% YoY real GDP growth rate, and a real Fed funds rate of -2%, which is actually closer to -4% given what the Fed is doing to its balance sheet. So this wedge between real growth and real rates is the liquidity excess that is filtering through into the financial markets, triggering excesses in come cases (like in the credit markets). "If the output gap is actually closer to 2% or 3%, which is quite conceivable, actually, then we are talking about an equilibrium Taylor-based funds rate of 0% ñ not the de facto -2% that the Fed is targeting via its unconventional easing experiment ñ and as such, maybe adding more securities to its balance sheet is providing too much juice to the system and risks building an inflationary process in the future. And as I have said in the recent past prolonged periods of negative zero real rates never end well. The Fed historically overstays it on the easing cycle, and it is likely no different this time around." Rosenberg goes on to say that because the Fed said it would focus on both an inflation target of 2.5 percent and unemployment of 6.5 percent. In other words, he is concerned not about demand inflation, but a milder version of the "1960/1970s style of cost-push inflation." This type of inflation is driven by rising costs of labor and raw materials and is driven by supply shortage.  And in this environment he thinks those looking for yield will have to stay invested in bonds for longer. "The reality is that the Treasury market itself does not compensate you for inflation at any part of the maturity structure out to the 10-year part of the curve. To generate a positive real yield, you have to be willing to take on a lot of duration. This is the environment the Fed has created. "...I am not totally changing my view and I am probably way too early as I am talking for the first time in a long time about inflation. I am only detecting some tectonic shifts. Productivity waning. Wages on the rise. This means rising unit labor costs which in turn have their own correlation with inflation ñ like an 87% correlation (and 84% with the core CPI rate). As a long-term bond and income bull, I am not about to throw in the towel. But to reiterate I am no longer, in this profession of identifying probabilities, in the same comfort zone as I once was." Rosenberg's note follows on David Stockman's column in the New York Times that accuses the Fed of creating a 'Great Deformation.'
During periods of crisis and high stock market volatility, correlations among stocks increase.¬† In other words, stocks move up and down together. JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly just published his quarterly market chartbook, which includes a useful slide tracking stock market volatility and correlations among stocks since the Great Depression.¬† JP Morgan Funds
YouTubeAn already strange case gets stranger. Vince Tabone, one of the men arrested in an alleged plot to fix the GOP ticket in the NYC Mayoral race for Queens State Senator Malcolm Smith, actually works for another GOP candidate for Mayor ‚Äî billionaire John Catsimatidis. Tabone was taken into police custody this morning along with three other NYC political heavyweights¬†‚Äî Republican Queens Councilman Dan Halloran, Smith (former NY Senate Majority Leader), and Bronx GOP head Jay Savino. They are accused of handing out, or in Tabone's case accepting, tens of thousands of dollars in bribes to secure the GOP nod for Smith. The election is set for November. The weird thing is that Tabone is in-house attorney for John Catsimatidis, the billionaire grocery store and gas magnate who is also running for Mayor. According to Tabone's LinkedIn profile, he's worked for Catsimatidis for five years. YouTube screengrabBillionaire John CatsimatidisThat means he was also around for Catsimatidis' failed 2009 bid for Mayor. And there was nothing to indicate that Tabone would support anyone else this time around. Last May, he helped write this glowing, pro-Catsimatidis Mayoral race memo from GOP chairs. (via City &amp; State NY): "Throughout this process the Chairmen have been encouraging billionaire John Catsimatidis, who was prepared to run in 2009 before Bloomberg extended term limits, to again step forward as the preferred candidate of the Party leadership. Catsimatidis has developed a strong relationship with the Chairs based not only on his consistent support for party building efforts and for local GOP candidates, but also for his friendship, advice and counsel to all the chairmen.Catsimatidis has indicated time and again that he believes having a vibrant two party system is integral to New York‚Äôs future." Of course, this was before Smith announced that he was considering a run in August. The alleged plot took advantage of the Republican party's weak condition in NYC. Because so many New Yorker's are Democrats, the GOP ticket for Mayor is usually up for grabs for anyone fast enough to get the approval of 3/5 of the party bosses from each borough. And so they could have plausibly made this work for Smith. Perhaps Tabone truly didn't think Catsimatidis' chances were that great anyway (they're not). As a candidate the billionaire couldn't be any less like Bloomberg. He's known for making off-color statements, like this exchange he had with an NY1 reporter last December (via Capital NY): Catsimatidis: "We shouldn't punish any one group, whether we're punishing the people that are wealthy; New York is for everybody. It's for the poor, it's for the middle class it's for the wealthy. We can't punish any one group and chase them away. Hitler punished the Jews. We can't have punishing the 2 percent group right now. We can't have ‚Äî" Robin: "Wait a second. You see raising taxes as the same as putting people in gas chambers?" Catsimatidis: "No, no. I didn't say that." Plus, a lot of money has already been thrown behind former MTA Chair Joe Lhota. He has the support of donors like Home Depot founder Ken Langone and hotelier James Tisch. Politicker NY was able to reach Catsimatidis for comment. Here's what he said of Tabone: ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs very, very sad,‚Äù he said in a phone call from his doctor‚Äôs office. ‚ÄúI know the family. It‚Äôs sad that people create their own problems.‚Äù This is one massive, massive problem.
Back in January, amid record, multi-billion dollar inflows into equity mutual funds and talk of the beginning of a "Great Rotation" out of bonds and into stocks, BofA Merrill Lynch analysts noted that, according to their own data on client positioning, they were already seeing a rotation underway. January is now squarely in the rear-view mirror ñ as is all of the first quarter. Savita Subramanian, BAML's head of U.S. equity strategy, is out with an update on that client positioning today and what ended up transpiring over the rest of Q1 following January's stunning flows. Her post-mortem on the first quarter: " Started with a bang, ended with a whimper." "Private clients have been the primary driver of BofAML client flows into US stocks this year, with strong inflows in January that tapered off in February and turned to net sales in March," says Subramanian. "Hedge funds and institutional clients have both been cumulative net sellers, with outflows during all three months of the quarter." Bank of America Merrill Lynch "With the S&amp;P 500 surpassing its all-time high last week, we will be watching private client flows in the coming weeks for evidence of confidence in the rally," concludes Subramanian.
Dr. Ed's BlogWhile the Cyprus Moment seems to have come and gone, the risk is that the country‚Äôs bailout plan has set the stage for a run on euro zone banks. The biggest shocker, of course, was that the deal included a ‚Äúbail-in‚Äù of uninsured depositors in Cypriot banks and the imposition of severe capital controls. Fears of a possible financial contagion are reflected in the 7.6% drop in the FTSE Eurofirst 300 Banks Euro Index since January 28. Also down ytd are the stock markets of Greece (-4.3%), Spain (-3.2), and Italy (-9.2).Cyprus may be a one-off unique situation. So far, it hasn‚Äôt triggered a financial meltdown comparable to Lehman. However, there is at least one similarity that is disturbing: Both reflected ‚Äúbailout burnout‚Äù by policymakers. On the other hand, this time financial market participants may be less panic prone knowing that the ECB will do whatever it takes to defend the euro. When Lehman hit the fan, no one had a clue of the Fed‚Äôs unprecedented QE response to the resulting financial crisis. So far, Italian and Spanish government bond yields remain relatively low. The S&amp;P 500 Bank stock price index is down only 2.5% since March 15. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Seasonal Adjustment? (1) Bernanke‚Äôs spin on wacky seasonal pattern. (2) Stay or go? (3) Timing corrections is tricky. (4) BLS economists beg to differ. (5) Europeans get agitated in the spring, then go to the beach in August. (6) Triple top? (7) Still aiming for 1665 for S&amp;P 500 by yearend. (8) Cyprus and Lehman are examples of ‚Äúbailout burnout.‚Äù (9) Fiscal drag nicks US M-PMI. (10) EMs emerging more slowly. (11) Little Kim is having growing pains. (12) Q1 shows relatively broad bull market. (More for subscribers.)
Walmart customers across the country are complaining that many stores have trouble keeping items stocked.¬† This is being reported by Renee Dudley at Bloomberg News, who notes that the workforce has fallen by 120,000 since 2008, and that in the same time the company has added several hundred locations. This trend at Walmart represents a bigger problem with the U.S. economy. Companies have expanded a lot since the downturn, but haven't hired that many additional workers, leading to high unemployment. Bloomberg News reportedly received thousands of emails about the empty shelves at Walmart. Dudley interviewed Bob Shank, a Tucson, Arizona man who said his local store had "bare shelves" with "yards of empty spaces" and "few employees visible, especially at the check-out counters."¬† Another customer from Illinois said that Walmart founder¬†Sam Walton¬†"must be rolling over in his grave to see what has become of his business."¬† Wall Street analyst Colin McGranahan told Dudley that Walmart's problems can be attributed to a shortage of employees.¬† Walmart is the largest U.S. employer, with a workforce of 1.3 million.¬† In a statement to Bloomberg, Walmart denied that the story is accurate.¬† "The premise of this story, which is based on the comments of a handful of people, is inaccurate and not representative of what is happening in our stores across the country," a spokeswoman said.¬† Even if the story isn't true, just this chart alone, from Bloomberg, reveals the problem with the U.S. economy: Corporate growth is not translating into more employment. Bloomberg
For the last two days, the major economies around the world have been releasing their March manufacturing purchasing managers index (PMI) numbers.¬† These are surveys of thousands of purchasing managers, which help gauge whether manufacturing sectors are expanding or contracting. From what we could tell, the Asian economies appeared to be accelerating, while the European economies were falling deeper into contraction.¬† The U.S., which is the biggest manufacturer in the world, reported slightly decelerating growth. JP Morgan just published its global composite manufacturing PMI number, which is a weighted average of all of the country-specific reports. Good news: the global manufacturing PMI inched up to 51.2 from 50.9 in February. "According to the global PMI, the manufacturing sector continued to expand in March," said JP Morgan's David Hensley. "Indexes of output and new orders rose slightly to levels consistent with moderate, stable growth in global production." Some more color: "Higher output was underpinned by a further increase in new order inflows and work on existing contracts. International trade volumes also rose during the latest survey period. Although the pace of growth in new export orders was only marginal, it was an improvement on the declines recorded during the preceding 11 months." Markit
Manhattan apartment prices held steady in the first quarter of 2013, while inventory continued to plummet dramatically during the same period, according to a quarterly market report released today by Douglas Elliman. The average sales price in the quarter was $1.35 million, rising just 1 percent year-over-year, the report says. Overall, 2,457 units were sold in the first quarter of 2013, up 6.3 percent from the first quarter of 2012 when 2,311 units sold, according to the report. The median sales price increased 5.9 percent year-over-year, to $820,555, marking the highest such increase since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008, with the exception of two quarters in 2010 that were skewed by the federal home buyer tax credit, said Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel and the author of the Elliman report. ìThis is what happens when you take both hands and choke off supply by the throat,î Miller said. Indeed, Manhattan inventory fell 34.4 percent year-over-year to 4,960 units from 7,560; quarter-over-quarter, inventory increased by 4.4 percent. But in the luxury market ó representing the priciest 10 percent of properties ó inventory was down just 15.4 percent to 1,025 units, and up 7.6 percent quarter-over-quarter, according to the Elliman report. Meanwhile, the absorption rate ó the number of months it would take to sell all the homes currently on the market ó fell 37.8 percent year-over-year to 6.1 months, the report says. Units spent an average of 132 days on the market, going 13.2 percent quicker than they did in the same period last year. Miller deemed the marketís unusual behavior ó where tight credit was actually causing housing prices to rise ó a ìprecovery,î rather than a recovery. ìYouíre stimulating interest in the market, and the hope is that in the next couple of years, thereís a soft handoff between this artificial environment and real economic improvement,î he said. Halstead Propertyís first quarter report, meanwhile, shows that the average price of a Manhattan apartment fell 16 percent year-over-year to $1.25 million. The median sales price decreased just 5 percent last year, the report says. The large drop in price, said Halsteadís president Diane Ramirez, was an ìaberrationî triggered by the so-called fiscal cliff, which led to a flurry of deals in the last quarter of 2012. ìMany sales artificially closed in Q4 of 2012 when they really would have closed in the first quarter of 2013,î Ramirez said. The decline in high-end activity was most evident in the co-op market, the report states, where the average price fell 22 percent year-over-year, largely due to a 31 percent drop in the average price for three-bedroom and larger co-ops. Ramirez predicted a solid year ahead, with a renaissance of the resale market ó ìwhich was dead in the water because everyone was sitting tight,î she said ó and an increase in overall sales. A lack of inventory, however, would ìcontinue to be a story,î she said. Hall Willkie, president of residential sales at Brown Harris Stevens, which uses the same data as sister brokerage Halstead, said in the report that with low interest rates, a strong economy and a decline in inventory, ìwe continue to see a healthy level of activity with well-priced homes selling quickly.î The Corcoran Groupís data showed a 24 percent increase in the number of signed contracts compared to the prior year quarter, underscoring the ìexceptional sales momentumî of the last three months and representing the strongest sales performance of any first quarter since 2007. And StreetEasy data reveal that there were 3,066 new contracts in the first quarter of 2013, a 15 percent year-over-year increase and an 18.4 percent quarter-over-quarter increase. Apartment prices in new developments rose 12.5 percent year-over-year to $1.92 million, or $1,332 per square foot, according to the Elliman report. New development units spent an average of 131 days on the market, going 52.9 percent quicker than they did in the same period last year. ìWeíre looking at more projects coming up,î Miller said, ìbut they are generally targeting the top 10 percent of the market.î
We devote careful study to the economic data to help us assess the outlook for the markets. What about the other way around? Given the average-at-best economic readings during the first quarter, the performance of the stock, bond, and commodity markets begs the question: what are the markets saying about where the economy is headed? Does the performance of stocks, bonds, and commodities in the first quarter forecast that booming economic growth lies just ahead? Or might these market gains risk making April fools of those expecting a sharp economic acceleration? Message From Stocks Historically, the stock market has been a very good leading indicator of future job growth with a lead of about six months, as you can see in†Figure 1. Since most of last yearís gain came in the first quarter, after the strong first quarter of this year, the S&amp;P 500 Index is up about 11% from a year ago. This does not suggest booming job growth in the coming months. In fact,†the 11% gain suggests only about a 1ñ2% year-over-year growth rate for jobs or a pace of about 180,000 per month.†This would mark a modest slowdownórather than a sharp re-acceleration of job growth. LPL Financial Message From Bonds Traditionally, in the bond market a rise in long-term yields relative to short-term yields is indicative of a stronger outlook for economic growth. The bigger the difference in these yields, in technical terms known as the slope of the yield curve, the stronger the expected pace of growth for the economy. This relationship can be seen in†Figure 2, where the difference in yields helps to predict gross domestic product (GDP) over the coming two years. While short-term yields did not change in the first quarter, remaining pinned down by the Federal Reserve (Fed) at just under 0.1%, the yield on the longer term 10-year Treasury note rose from an average of 1.69% in the fourth quarter of last year to 1.92% in the first quarter of this year. While on the surface an increase in the slope of the yield curve may suggest a better growth outlook, when viewed in the historical context seen in†Figure 2, the modest uptick in yield predicts merely a continuation of the roughly 2% GDP growth seen, on average, over the past couple of years. Bloomberg, LPL Financial Message From Commodities After spending much of the fourth quarter of 2012 below $90, oil prices surged to near $100 in the first quarter, ending at $97. Since oil prices and economic activity tend to move in the same direction, is this $10 surge in oil prices a sign that demand is rising with increasing economic activity? Unfortunately, the answer is no. We can see in†Figure 3†that†this level of oil prices is consistent with the current modest pace of manufacturing activity†represented by the widely-watched Purchasing Managersí Index from the Institute for Supply Management in the low 50s. Bloomberg, LPL Financial Despite the strong performance in the first quarter, it appears that the message from the markets on the economy is that modest growth is likely to continue rather than accelerate. Just like last year, the strong first quarter led to more of the same in the economy, averaging 2% GDP growth and modest job gains. 
Forty miles outside Chicago, Tom Roeser is participating in a large-scale version of "Flip This House." As¬†CNN Money's Les Christie reports,¬†Roeser, president of the town's largest employer, OTTO Engineering, has been scooping up dozens of foreclosed properties for the last several years.¬† But instead of following the typical real estate investor path ‚Äì‚Äì first renovating and then flipping the homes for a massive profit ‚Äì Roeser's only mission is to make sure his hometown of Carpentersville, Ill., stays afloat. "I couldn't afford for Carpentersville to become Detroit,"¬†he told CNN Money. So far, he's bought 193 homes, fixed them up and has sold or rented them to area residents for about $200 below market value.¬† He has a point. Detroit's flush inventory of dirt cheap foreclosures has long been coveted by investors, especially from overseas. Remax real estate agent Albert Hakim reached out to Business Insider recently to say he's been inundated with media attention from China and Singapore as foreign investors look for cheap footholds in the U.S. "In the past two weeks we flipped 30 to 40 contracts," he said. Last fall, a millionaire snatched up 650 foreclosed homes in a Detroit for $4.8 million, beating out about 300 other investors. He planned to make about $2 million on the deal by flipping the homes, while donating other proceeds to families in need. Roeser, on the other hand, doesn't seem to be in it for the money. Carpentersville, home to about 37,000 residents, has been hit by hard times like many other cities in the Midwest. Unemployment topped 12 percent in 2010 and the community made CNN's 100 hardest hit neighborhoods list for foreclosures¬†in 2012, with about one in nine of its houses foreclosed. He now buys foreclosed homes in his community for about $40,000, spends $100,000 to $120,000 to fix them up and sells them for about $160,000 through Homes by OTTO. According to the Homes by OTTO website, each house comes with new plumbing, electrical and heating and cooling units. They also come with appliances and new roofs.¬†
via Street EasyThe view from Handler's apartment.Last week DNA Info reported that Richard Handler, the CEO of Jefferies, is trying to stop the construction of a rooftop view that would block the gorgeous panoramic view from his penthouse. It's not the prettiest case on the planet ‚Äî Handsomely paid Wall Street CEO rages against local business owner etc., and apparently the press' characterization of his actions has made Handler uncomfortable. Blog Here's The City obtained a memo Handler sent to his staff apologizing for the "distractions" his lawsuit caused and explaining that the media distorted his compensation. From the letter: On top of this, while I was finally away for a few days last week with my family, I came home to find myself portrayed as a "tone-deaf one-percenter‚Äù as the papers claimed I sued the City of New York for slightly obstructing the view from my apartment. Obviously, this is a huge distortion as well. I took the lead to help our neighborhood oppose what we know will be a major nuisance and disruption to our lives, and you can be assured we are not going after the City in any way and are only asking for their help in dealing with a huge potential problem. The short of it is that we want to stop a developer from putting up a rooftop bar that would allow 3,000 people to party until 4 am, seven days a week, with no limitation on live music - right in the middle of where we live. So what would you do?  From the full letter head to Here's The City&gt;
Fast forward twenty years, and Frank Giustra has been involved in the creation of at least four multi-billion dollar companies. Serafino Iacono and his longtime partner Jose Francisco Arata‚Äôs five-year-old Pacific Rubiales Energy (TSX:PRE) has a market cap of approx. $7 billion ‚Äî and a 2012 net income greater than Facebook (age 9) and Linkedin (age 10) combined. Fino ‚ÄúFino,‚Äù as Iacono is known in Colombia, is a larger than life figure. He talks constantly, gesticulates insistently, and is always smoking a menthol. In a voice that booms with the New York accent he picked up as a kid, Fino seems to start off all his conversations with ‚ÄúWe are the biggest,‚Äù ‚ÄúThis is the first,‚Äù and ‚ÄúWe are the only.‚Äù Iacono saw opportunity in the Colombian raw materials sector before anyone else. This is why he‚Äôs one of the country‚Äôs most successful entrepreneurs today ‚Äî one who has, for example, Colombian presidents both past and present on speed dial. And Frank Giustra, his closest backer, has provided valuable financial and political capital along the way. The Pacific Group The Pacific Group ‚Äî Iacono‚Äôs companies in Colombia and elsewhere ‚Äî are known by their common name, most having ‚ÄúPacific‚Äù in their title. The Group‚Äôs holdings encompass mining, energy, agriculture, infrastructure, and beyond. Anchored by the wildly successful mid-tier oil producer Pacific Rubiales, the Pacific Group is one of Colombia‚Äôs largest conglomerates. Joining Pacific Rubiales in the public portfolio is Pacific Coal (TSXV:PAK) and Gran Colombia Gold (TSXV:GCM), both of which are suffering, like most other junior miners in this nasty market. Today, both¬†PAK¬†and¬†GCM¬†trade at just a fraction of the the capital invested in each project. Blue Pacific ‚Äî Iacono and Giustra‚Äôs private company led by Jaime Perez Branger ‚Äî owns ports under construction in Cartagena and Barranquilla, as well as power plants, farms, mines, and other infrastructure assets scattered across the country. I was able to tour several of these with Fino and Frank late last week. Why Colombia? Colombia has made a radical transformation over the past decade. A partial result of Fino‚Äôs regional oil discoveries, Columbia has seen a great reduction in guerrilla and drug-related violence, and a subsequent increase in domestic production. ‚ÄúColombia is the longest standing democracy in South America,‚Äù Fino tells me, his ever-present security detail hovering ominously at our periphery. ‚ÄúI never feel like I‚Äôm in danger here.‚Äù ‚ÄúPeople also forget that, even in the worst years of the violence, Colombia‚Äôs banks paid their bills,‚Äù he says. According to Business Monitor International (BMI), the country ‚Äúboasts an unblemished debt record and looks set to improve its budget deficit significantly over the medium term.‚Äù Further, Colombia‚Äôs labor force is both highly qualified and competitive. ‚ÄúWe expect the infrastructure, mining, and oil and gas sectors will continue to receive significant amounts of investment from abroad. The country‚Äôs vast untapped oil &amp; gas reserves, combined with a favourable business environment and investment-friendly government licensing programmes, will continue to attract foreign investment into energy companies,‚Äù said BMI. The recent US Congressional ratification of the US-Colombia free trade agreement is another shot in the arm for the country, enabling further infrastructure improvements. It‚Äôs no mystery, then, why the BMI declared that Colombia is one of its favourite infrastructure markets in the region, and forecasted an average 5.4% growth between 2013 and 2017. Net net, the future is bright for Colombia, and Fino and Frank‚Äôs Blue Pacific is moving along at a rapid pace. Related industries ‚ÄúIn the resource business, you have to look at the related businesses of each of these commodities.‚Äù Fino tells his guests over whisky with coconut water one night. ‚ÄúThe other products and materials used in production, the infrastructure‚Ä¶ Do you have any idea how much lime it takes to produce gold at our mines, and how big of an opportunity there is in the lime business in South America, along with all the gold production coming on stream?‚Äù he continued. ‚ÄúDo you know how many steel valves we use at Pacific Rubiales? How much light oil we need as a diluent for our heavy oil production?‚Äù Of all the companies in Frank and Fino‚Äôs portfolio,¬†Petroamerica Oil Corp.¬†(TSXV:PTA) is the one they‚Äôre most excited about. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs a huge opportunity for Petroamerica to be the consolidator of light oil projects in Colombia,‚Äù Fino says. ‚ÄúCEO Nelson [Navarette] is the top oil executive in Colombia, with the best connections in the country. This is the next Pacific Rubiales.‚Äù Frank and Fino are two of the largest holders of¬†PTA¬†shares, last at 32 cents. Public. V. Private As for the state of public markets for junior resource developers, project valuations have become irrational. ‚ÄúThis is the worst I can remember it,‚Äù Fino tells me. ‚ÄúA bull market will always go higher, and a bear market will fall farther than you expect it will,‚Äù Giustra tells me on Friday. We‚Äôre in a SUV in a police-led motorcade, on our way to a soccer match in Barranquilla. Fino adds: ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs why we‚Äôre doing our infrastructure investments in Blue Pacific private for now. So we can focus on creating value, and not the share prices.‚Äù ‚ÄúThe past decade was the greatest bull market of all time in our sector, it was almost ridiculous,‚Äù Giustra continues. ‚ÄúShells used to go to 80 cents on anticipation of something happening, and that‚Äôs what the market is coming to terms with now.‚Äù Mining stocks have fallen so far that Giustra, one of the most successful market timers in the precious metals sector, has begun to sell his bullion position in favor of the gold miners. When an investor with a track record like Frank Giustra‚Äôs makes a market call like that, it‚Äôs worth taking notice. Gran Colombia The subject changes to the challenges facing Gran Colombia, the nation‚Äôs largest gold producer. With a current market cap of only ~$100 million,¬†GCM¬†reminds us just how small the Colombian gold industry is, despite numerous projects currently in development represented on the TSXV. ‚ÄúWe have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in Gran Colombia and have increased our production and enhanced our profitability this year. But the market is not impressed,‚Äù Fino said. The company has missed expectations, and like other producers, has reminded investors that gold mining is a difficult business. But to Fino‚Äôs credit, Gran Colombia is financed to get back on track in 2013 and 2014 with the assistance of gold and silver notes, a recent debt financing. Be bold One of my biggest takeaways from Colombia is that if you want to be a real resource developer ‚Äî and not just a promoter of moose pasture ‚Äî you need the vision and the guts to chase the impossible. But more than anything, you need the right people around you. ‚ÄúOur silver notes are trading at only .70 cents on the dollar, Frank, can you believe that?‚Äù Fino says from the front seat of the SUV. Sitting beside me in the back seat, Giustra pulls out his Blackberry dismissively. A minute later he says, ‚ÄúI just bought $500,000 of the silver notes at .70, Fino.‚Äù He obviously thinks his friend is good for it.
BloombergIn his latest letter, Goldman Sachs' Jim O'Neill ponders China. "It was yet another pretty miserable week for owners of China A shares, especially Thursday, when the regulatory authorities announced a clampdown on so-called Wealth Management Products (WMP) offered by the banks and with it, presumably, the much discussed shadow banking activities," he wrote. Still, he believes this development is probably a good thing in the long-run in that it contains the trillion dollar market for WMPs from getting out of control. Overall, O'Neill continues to be bullish on China.† However, one key economic indicator keeps him cautious in the short-term. I have followed a Chinese Financial Conditions Index (FCI) for years as a leading indicator and it has been very useful for me in helping to guide my relative views of the Chinese cycle. (Please find the chart attached.) Despite all my China structural bullishness, its tightening from 2009 to 2011 and its subsequent lack of major easing is why at GSAM we have had a more cautious view of the cycle than the consensus for the past two years. Many people have suggested to me that the proliferation of the shadow banking system was why it didnít matter. I never fully believed this, and now with this clampdown, unless they ease financial conditions, I suspect that the Chinese cycle will be softer than consensus forecasts for 2013 at least. So, contrary to market expectations, could we end up with an easing of policy? So, either the data continues to disappoint, or China eases policy. Here's the chart O'Neill refers to. Goldman Sachs Asset Management Read his whole note at GS.com.
flickr/Orin ZebestSoci√©t√© G√©n√©rale analysts are quite bearish on gold. Their $1375-per-ounce price target for the end of 2013 puts them well below most of the Street. Today, the SocGen team, led by Patrick Legland and Michael Haigh, released a new report titled "The End of the Gold Era." A $1375 price target implies a 13 percent decline from today's levels by the end of the year, but the analysts also examine a "bear case" for the shiny yellow metal that is even worse than their already-bearish call. It hinges on a "perfect positive macro storm." Below are their thoughts on such a "bear case" would play out: Our central scenario calls for a gentle bear market over the next several years. The question we address here is: what could cause an even greater decline even further than our forecast? Specifically, what would it take to send gold prices dramatically down: 20‚Äì30% (a crash) in a much shorter period of time? Simply put, we need the perfect positive macro storm to impact the market which would then influence gold‚Äôs ‚Äòfundamentals‚Äô and currently this is a tail risk and is not terribly likely (see our base and bull case scorecard on next page). Nevertheless, we outline what it would take in this report. Gold is perhaps the most unique ‚Äòcommodity‚Äô since its fundamentals are a mixture of non- traditional influences on commodities: real interest rates, expected inflation, dollar moves, fiscal outlook, fed balance sheet (and asset purchases) have a much greater impact on gold than other commodities. The fundamentals ‚Äì mine supply, scrap supply, central bank buying/selling, bar hoarding, producer hedging, ETF flows, etc. would then react. The price drop will have to come from a macro improvement, not from the fundamental side. Specifically, we need global GDP growth to be quite significant, real interest rates to rise quite significantly (certainly an end to QE), fast US fiscal stabilisation, the dollar to significantly strengthen, inflation expectations to be muted, food inflation to be non-problematic, and then, as a result we would expect to see increased selling of ETFs, significant liquidation on Comex futures, reduced central bank buying, bar dis-hoarding, and a huge revival in producer hedging.  While our base case scenario ($1375/oz by year end) is predicated on our current economic outlook and how the ‚Äòfundamentals‚Äô would react, our extreme bear case (crash) is based on the perfect macro storm. We believe that this crash scenario is less than a 20% probability. While the possibility of this positive macro storm for a crash remains a tail risk, a near positive macro risk could be enough to start the large decline. The SocGen analysts break down the risks that could create this "perfect positive macro storm" into two categories: "non-fundamental influences on gold" and fundamental factors. In terms of non-fundamental factors, they¬†say that for the crash to occur, we would have to see U.S. 10-year yields to rise above 3 percent in 2013, bringing about a much stronger U.S. dollar. Furthermore, global growth would have to be on the order of 4 to 5 percent, which the analysts call "a huge headwind for gold." The Federal Reserve would also have to begin shrinking its balance sheet this year, driven by a scare in inflation expectations ‚Äì something most don't expect until at least 2015. On the other hand, the analysts say long term inflation expectations falling between 1 and 2 percent (as proxied by TIPS yields) would be very bearish for gold as well. The crash scenario also envisions further spending cuts in the U.S. beyond what has already been implemented by the sequester or structural reforms on taxes and entitlement spending. In terms of fundamental influences on gold, SocGen predicts a 30-megaton increase in gold mine supply in 2013, followed by a 55 mega-ton increase in 2014. Anything above that could help precipitate the crash scenario. The pace of withdrawals from gold ETFs would have to pick up significantly, central banks would have to start selling, and hedge funds would have to get net short gold. To top it off, a strong downward trend in gold could cause producers to start hedging more aggressively against a decrease in gold prices, and rising rates could discourage hoarding of gold bars as storage costs increase. The table below summarizes SocGen's base and bear cases. SG Cross Asset Research
Chip Somodevilla / GettyThis morning the Wall Street Journal broke the news that former SEC head Mary Schapiro is joining Promontory Financial Group, a consulting firm and lobby group that works with the financial services industry. This news is sure to upset those who already decry the revolving door between Washington and Wall Street ‚Äî not just because Schapiro (given her resume) is a great get for any industry group, but because in the last few years Promontory has come to be known as the industry group. In a massive profile in this month's American Banker, the Promontory is described as Wall Street's "shadow regulator." Founded in 2001 by Eugene Ludwig, a college friend of Bill Clinton's who served as Comptroller of Currency during his administration, Promontory is stacked with former bureaucrats from every corner of Washington that matters. More importantly, once they get to the firm, they stay there. Recent hires include not only Schapiro, but also Amy Friend, a former staff director for the Senate Banking Committee. From American Banker: Ludwig's hires include former senior officials from the OCC, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve System, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and assorted state agencies and foreign regulatory bodies. Promontory's past and current employees and advisors include sitting Fed Governor Sarah Bloom Raskin, a former CFPB chief operating officer, a former acting FDIC Chairman, former National Football League Commissioner Paul Tagliabue and the now-deceased former Italian Finance Minister credited with inventing the euro. It even has half a dozen former staffers from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which is not even three years old yet. Their leg up is that these former staffers know regulation so well that they can be prescient about where the industry is going. Ludwig, says American Banker, foresaw (and "championed") the dive into securities markets that have characterized the last 30 years on Wall Street. Former Citi CEO Sandy Weill is a fan. Promontory doesn't necessarily describe its government dealings as "lobbying" on its website. Promontory experts are regularly called upon by congressional committees and federal supervisory agencies to advise on legislative and regulatory matters. Promontory also assists industry associations and their members in understanding regulatory developments and preparing for regulatory changes. Ludwig doesn't seem to like the word "lobbying" either. Here's what he¬† told American Banker: "We don't lobby ‚Äî it's not our business. We do the opposite of influencing government," Eugene Ludwig says. "We try to influence the private sector in terms of what the government wants it to do." So reverse lobbying? The money tells a simpler story. According to OpenSecrets.org, Promontory's financial services lobbying efforts have exploded in the last two years. In 2012, had $1.3 million in total lobbying expenditures in the industry. In 2011 it was $1.2 million. Data for 2009 and 2010 is not available, but the last two years' numbers make 2008's $180,000 worth of expenditures look like chump change. Additionally, OpenSecrets.org points out that all of the lobbyists that Promontory contracted outside of its own staff fit the "revolving door profile" of individuals who worked in the public sector before working in the private sector. Salaries at Promontory can range from $40,000 annually for an analyst to over $259,000 for a Director, according to GlassDoor. On the whole, it seems like a decent place to work too. Former employees said that the hours were long but that they worked with smart people and were fairly paid for the most part. "The financials services industry lives here,"said one reviewer. Sounds like a great club.
Ford.comMarch U.S. auto sales are being released throughout the day. Analysts estimate a seasonally-adjusted annual rate (SAAR) of sales of 15.4 million units, which compares to 14.1 million a year ago. "Expect a good month with a forecasted March SAAR of 15.3 million," said Citi's Itay Michaeli. "We expect full-size pickup truck sales to rise 15-20%, outpacing the industry." So far the numbers are looking encouraging:
APProminent Democratic State Sen. Malcolm Smith and¬†city Councilman Dan Halloran were arrested Tuesday morning in charged by the FBI with planning a wide-ranging plot to rig the New York City mayoral election this fall.¬† According to the complaint, Smith, Halloran,¬†Bronx Republican Chairman Joseph Savino, and Queens GOP Vice Chairman Vincent Tabone, conspired to bribe New York City party officials in order to get Smith's name on the GOP ballot for mayor.¬† The FBI probe of the New York officials dates all the way back to August 2011. The FBI used a cooperating witness ‚Äî as well as an undercover FBI agent ‚Äî to uncover the plan.¬† According to the complaint, Smith allegedly agreed with the cooperating witness and FBI agent ‚Äî who was posing as a wealthy real estate developer ‚Äî in the plan to bribe New York City officials to get him on the ballot. Savino and Tabone received a total of $40,000 in cash payments and a promise of $40,000 more. In exchange for the bribes, Smith agreed to use his status as a State Senator to obtain state funds for a road project in Spring Valley, N.Y., that the undercover FBI agent said would benefit his real estate company. For his part in setting up the meetings, Halloran received almost $45,000 in mostly cash payments: U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York The FBI investigation began to reach its peak last November, when Smith met with the undercover agent in a scheme to convince a Republican Party county chairman ‚Äî who is not named ‚Äî to shift his support to Smith.¬† "You pull this off, you can have the house," Smith told the undercover agent, according to the complaint. "I'll be a tenant." In January, when the plan was still ongoing, Smith met the cooperating witness in his car in Rockland County. The cooperating witness asked Smith if it was worth "any price" to earn Republican leaders' support, noting that it would cost a "pretty penny." "Look, talk to me before you close it. But it's worth it. Because you know how big a deal it is," Smith said, according to the complaint. That conversation is detailed below: U.S. Attorney's Office of the Southern District of New York The U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern District of New York is holding a press conference Tuesday at 11 a.m. to further unveil the charges. The full complaint is below: Smith, Malcolm Et Al. Complaint (Signed) 
It's illegal to make your own money in the United States, but that doesn't mean the feds will shut down the digital currency bitcoin anytime soon, financial services lawyer Dan Friedberg tells us. That's because the feds don't consider bitcoin ó a virtual currency that's being used around the globe ó to be† "tender," or official bills or coins that look like they've been issued by the U.S. government. Instead, it's considered "virtual currency." The federal government made that distinction clear in a recent announcement that it was applying money-laundering rules to bitcoin and other virtual currencies. The Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) didn't mention bitcoin by name, but the new rules applied to "convertible decentralized virtual currency" exactly like bitcoin, Friedberg says. Bitcoin enthusiasts were a little on edge before FinCEN issued its notice. "This is a a very new area, and you really never know how the Treasury Department is going to react," Friedberg says. Here's what Friedberg had to say in an email message: "Prior to the FinCEN release, a significant concern was that the US government might assert that bitcoin constitutes illegal tender. Indeed, the United States Constitution delegates to Congress the exclusive power to mint coin within the United States to insure a singular monetary system for purchases and debits. The Department of Treasury therefore could have taken the position that bitcoin constitutes an illegal competing currency that violates this fundamental constitutional power, but chose not to do so. Instead, FinCEN distinguished a 'virtual currency' from a 'real currency,' and noted that a 'virtual currency lacks all the real attributes of real currency.'" It's possible that the federal government is letting bitcoin stick around because it's not much of a threat to U.S. currency. Right now, bitcoin's only worth about $1 billion compared to the $1.18 trillion in U.S. currency that's in circulation. Bitcoin is also relatively unstable, Internet law attorney Mike Young points out. "If Bitcoin exchange rates stabilize, and the digital currency becomes preferred over the U.S. Dollar at some point, that† would be the probable tipping point for banning it within the United States," Young tells us. For now, bitcoin is able to exist in part because it's in the "gray area" of international currency that's based overseas, according to Young. "If Bitcoin were purely a U.S. domestic currency," Young says, "it would have been shut down a long time ago."
Wikimedia CommonsAt the time of writing, some 227,147 people have signed a petition that demands a British politician live on ¬£7.57 ($11.50) a day. This isn't a simple case of mob cruelty. Iain Duncan Smith, formerly the leader of the Conservative Party, is the Work and Pensions Secretary in the UK government, and responsible for benefit cuts that went into place yesterday. Many view these cuts as harsh, and Duncan Smith unintentionally stoked the fire yesterday by telling BBC's Radio 4 that he could live on ¬£53 ($80.60) a week ‚Äî one of the lowest rates of benefits for unemployed people ‚Äî if he "had to". To critics of the cuts, this was gross hypocrisy. Duncan Smith earns ¬£1,581.02 ($2401) a week at present‚Äî ¬£225 ($342.79) a day after tax ‚Äî so if he were actually forced to live on $11.50 a day that would be a drop in income reduction of 97%. While the petition carries no legal weight, it has now been picked up by almost all of the major news outlets in the UK, and, as Sky News puts it, the petition is piling pressure on Duncan Smith. It has more signatures than any e-petition currently on the government's official petition website, for example. Some have even suggested the petition may have been rejected by the government website, hence its location on change.org. In fact, there is a real, though perhaps distant, possibility that Duncan Smith could accept the challenge ‚Äî other politicians have done so in the past. The Guardian notes that Conservative MP Matthew Parris struggled to survive on ¬£26.80 a week in 1984, when he lived in a bedsit for a week for a TV show.¬† However, the petition asks that Duncan Smith live on the sum for "at least one year", a big commitment for anyone, though one that would replicate at least some of the long-term budget problems people on benefits have. (Alex Hern of the New Statesman has points out, however, Duncan Smith could probably live pretty comfortably on ¬£53 if the task allowed him to make use of his current assets ‚Äî he currently lives rent-free in a multi-million dollar Tudor mansion courtesy of his father-in-law.) The outrage has drawn one minor concession from the UK government, however. Greg Clark, the Financial Secretary to the British Treasury, admitted today that "I think it‚Äôs an incredible struggle to [live on¬†¬£53 a week] and I think any MP, anyone earning the comfortable wage that an MP has would certainly struggle."
REUTERS / Yorgos KarahalisThe Cyprus Stock Exchange re-opened today following the financial crisis and bank closures that have characterized the past few weeks in one of the euro's smallest member states. The main index ñ the Cyprus Stock Exchange General Index ñ is only down about 2.6 percent today. However, the country's two biggest banks ñ the ones where uninsured deposits will be wiped out as part of the Cypriot bank bailout deal ñ aren't trading today. Those two banks, Bank of Cyprus and Cyprus Popular, together account for 60.9 percent of the index, so it's fair to say that we haven't seen the full impact from the events of recent weeks on the market there yet. On the other hand, the third largest bank in Cyprus ñ Hellenic Bank ñ is trading today. It's down 20 percent. (We should also note that the Cypriot stock market has already lost 98 percent of its value from its peak in October 2007.)
China Photos/Getty ImagesFactory orders rose 3.0 percent in February, according to the latest data. Economists expected orders to rise 2.9 percent. January's 2.0 percent decline was revised up to a smaller, 1.0 percent contraction. Click here for the full release &gt;

First we must correct an error. In our discussion "Euro: Requiem or Renewal?" we identified Jeroen Dijsselbloem as a central banker. That was an error; he is a political figure. There is quite a distinction between experienced central bankers and finance ministers who developed their careers as politicians. Dijsselbloem is definitely the latter. Now to our commentary: Contagion Starts Small History indicates that contagions start small. What is worrisome about Cyprus is the complacency that markets are showing, based on the assumption that it is a little, one-off, insignificant event. Here is a little refresher on contagion, and then we will go back to Cyprus. 1. Russian ruble collapse. Remember 1997 and 1998. The sequential problems in worldwide currency-trading exchanges ended with the collapse of the Russian ruble and the demise of the Long Term Capital Management (LTCM) hedge fund. It did not start with the LTCM collapse; that was the final market shock, which triggered a large government intervention. That brought in Alan Greenspan and the US Federal Reserve. The collapse actually started with a single-currency failure in Thailand. Panicked trading in the Thai baht started as what looked like a small, one-off, insignificant event. The contagion from that event took about 18 months to play out. 2. Zimbabwe inflation. The earliest signs of inflation, confiscation of wealth and appropriation of property, and oppression of the populace in Zimbabwe appeared many years before hyperinflation, full destruction of the currency, and suppression of the productive facilities of the country. The collapse was in the incipient stage long before it became evident that the governmentís policies were going to accelerate, rather than prevent it. I saw this one coming firsthand. As chair of the Global Interdependence Centerís central banking series, I recall meeting with representatives of Zimbabwe and its central bank. We discussed the risks they were taking in the early stages of aggressive monetary expansion as an attempted solution to their problems. We warned them about appropriation of wealth. They were emphatic that they were controlling capital and monitoring the inflationary effects of what was then a very early-stage policy. Those of us who sat in that meeting listened to the representatives for an hour and a half and then spent the next hour and a half attempting to persuade them that their policy would lead to the demise of wealth and investment in their country. A few years later, the outcome became apparent to the world. 3. Weimar Republic hyperinflation. When the Weimar Republic attempted to meet international flow requirements under the Treaty of Versailles, it did not immediately cause hyperinflation. The process started with currency expansion and banking manipulation in an attempt to manage foreign-exchange flows. It ended with hyperinflation, the demise of the government, and the rise of Nazism in Europe. Thus, the European contagion did not begin with the fall of the government and rise of Hitler in the 1930s; it started years earlier. In a marvelous piece of research, economist Madeline Schnapp documented this history in monetary terms. When Germany went to war in 1914, an egg cost 2 pfennigs and a loaf of bread was 10 pfennigs. In 1919, after the war ended and at the birth of Weimar, the egg was 20 pfennigs and the loaf was 1 mark. By April 1922, the egg was 4 marks, by September 9 marks, and by November 22 marks. In February 1923, the egg cost 45 marks, by May it was 800 marks, in July 1923 it cost 20,000 marks, and by August it was ten times that much: 200,000 marks. At the end of 1923 one needed billions of marks to purchase an egg, and a 1 trillion marks to buy a loaf of bread. 4. The US financial crisis of 2007-09. Thinking back on the recent crisis in the US, we saw the first signs of weakness in the financial sector in mid-2007. There were some pricing anomalies in May that were visible but not explained. Clearly some money movement was taking place, but it was not apparent why. By summer 2007 Bear Stearns had indicated a problem with some mortgage-backed securities. They said it was just a couple billion ñ not very significant. In 2007, the first signs of the contagion were minor. Now let us put this perspective to work with regard to Cyprus. We now know that some bank accounts in Cyprus will lose up to 60 percent of their balances. Think about that as if you were a business operating in Cyprus with an active Ä1 million balance. You need the funds to handle payrolls and trade relationships and to pursue the ongoing operational activities of your enterprise. Suddenly, Ä600,000 of your Ä1 million is impounded. About two-thirds of it is exchanged for shares in a new banking facility. Those shares may be worthless, and at best you will not know for a long time how much, if any, value can be obtained from them. The other one-third of your impounded balance is held in reserve and kept from you. Your access to the remaining 40% of your account is limited to small transfers and withdrawals. Can the multiplier effects of that businessís problem be contained within Cyprus? Perhaps, if that business is a local retail enterprise. It may fail, and many others like it may fail, and the country may suffer an economic decline of large proportions. But can the effects really be limited to Cyprus? Retail enterprises in that small island nation must purchase many imported goods, and they must somehow fund their business activities Those transactions, when they are restrained or defeated by a punitive Eurogroup policy directed at Cypriot banks, trigger negative multiplier effects that may blossom into serious Eurozone-wide contagion. We do not yet know the impact of Cyprus. We will not have a sense of its full depth for months. Contagions in economic systems are dangerous, as our list above demonstrates. European reaction to Cyprus is still developing. Markets are already reallocating funds away from places like Malta and Slovenia. Markets are worried about larger countries that are also troubled, like Spain and Italy.† The most recent unemployment report from the eurozone validates our view.† It is 12%, up from 10% just two years ago. Markets are also looking at New Zealand, which is proposing a bank reconciliation mechanism similar to the one applied by the Eurozone in Cyprus. It is called Open Bank Resolution (OBR). Google it and read about the debate in New Zealand. We suspect that monies that are able to leave New Zealand are already doing so. If I had money in a New Zealand bank and if I had seen a proposal indicating that a governmental authority or the central bank might confiscate some portion of my account if they had to resolve one of New Zealandís banks, I would be thinking about moving it right now . This whole notion of breaching the wall of the deposit is now pervasive worldwide. A joint US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) ñ Bank of England paper (December 10, 2012) was titled "Resolving Globally Active, Systemically Important, Financial Institutions." Note paragraph 47 and its discussion of small deposits and insured deposits. Here is the link: http://www.fdic.gov/about/srac/2012/gsifi.pdf . Query: How do you decide how large a deposit balance is needed to conduct business operations? Where is the line drawn if that balance is above the deposit-insurance limit? In the US, unlimited FDIC coverage of non-interest-bearing demand deposits has expired. Now what? How does one protect oneself? In New Zealand one needs to avoid exposure to banks, if possible. In the Eurozone, we know that the intent is to preserve the insurance limit in each of the 17 countries. We also know that the finance ministers in the Eurogroup attacked small depositors and would have succeeded were it not for the Cypriot parliament. In the US, we know that the FDIC has honored its commitment to deposit insurance. The same is true in the UK. We also know that in both countries there is new law (not tested yet) that suggests that a bank that has exhausted all resources and does not have the assets to either merge or be resolved fully without invading insured deposits, now presents an additional risk to the insured depositors. We do not expect that the insured depositors would lose their funds, but we do note that their safety is not as clear-cut as it once was. In the US we are seeing small and independent businesses revamping their deposit allocation structures to stay within the $250,000 limit of the FDIC. We do not blame them. In our own firm we have a similar policy. We just do not blindly trust any banking system. It is safer to view them as riskier than they used to be. So what does all this mean for investors? Contagions start small. They expand, or not, depending on subsequent events. Actions of governments can mitigate damage or enlarge it. A second bank failure that is resolved with large depositor losses in Europe will have a much greater systemic impact than the first one in Cyprus. The increasing use of Emergency Liquidity Assistance (ELA) in any Eurozone country will be seen as a warning sign that the Cyprus events may be repeated. Attempts to veil ELA data will exacerbate the problem. Transparency reduces damage. It is hard for governments to grasp that concept, so it is not likely to prevail. Investors have choices. They can seek higher returns and will often take risks to get them. Or they can follow the advice often attributed, though perhaps erroneously, to a great economist by the name of Will Rogers: ìI am not so much concerned with the return on my money as I am with the return of my money.î We are in a day and age in which the short-term interest rate in every major currency of the world is near zero. Compensation for risking wealth in a deposit structure is small. Safety is obtainable at low opportunity cost. Investors are wise to seek it. At Cumberland, we are placing increasing emphasis on the highest quality of credit. When interest rates are very low, investors are not properly compensated for credit risk. They tend to go in the opposite direction at such times, chasing yield and buying lower-investment-grade or junk credit in order to attempt to maintain income. Some people pursued that strategy in Cyprus by getting relatively high deposit interest rates through banks. The banks were able to pay those interest rates because of their holdings in junk-status sovereign debt, such as Greek government bonds. Now, the contagion flows have offset the extra interest earnings many times over. An investor who chased yield in a Cypriot bank in order to capture a few hundred additional basis points in interest is now paying a very serious price for that strategy. Contagion starts small, and we may now be witnessing one gathering momentum in the Eurozone. We had a similar experience in 2007-2008 and through to early 2009 in the US. We have subsequently developed a legal-resolution structure under Dodd-Frank that has altered the method of intervention in the US, and there have been similar changes in the UK and elsewhere. The danger for those who are willing to chase yield and take on more credit risk is rising. At Cumberland, our strategy is to avoid all imbalances of risk vs. return. We are diligently emphasizing higher-quality credit.
IntradeBloomberg's Joe Brennan¬†is reporting that Intrade will pitch a "survival plan" to clients that would include a 50 percent payback to those with frozen accounts. If the online betting website can find a new investment, then it would return all of the customer funds. According to Brennan's source, less than $2.5 million of customer funds would be at risk under the plan. In March, Intrade was shut down¬†following the uncovering of accounting irregularities related to payments to deceased former CEO John Delaney in 2011. In November, the company was dealt a lawsuit from the CFTC, the U.S. commodities and futures trading regulator.¬†The lawsuit alleged that Intrade had violated rules by allowing customers to trade commodities and soliciting them to buy options.
Last week, we questioned the legitimacy of a story that a company planned to install a Bitcoin ATM in Cyprus. Jeff Berwick, the man behind The Dollar Vigilante and founder of StockHouse.com, had posted an announcement saying the following: I have decided to move forward with what I believe could be the next multi-billion dollar business venture:¬†Bitcoin ATM....It is wholly our intention at Bitcoin ATM to put the company in the right position to open its very first ATM in Cyprus.¬†If we did this now, and we are moving quickly to make this so, we would be the only functioning ATM on the island. We tried for two days to get in touch with someone at The Dollar Vigilante, to no avail. But Berwick has now responded via email to our contentions. Here is his response in full, as he framed it, with his cuts from our original story in quotes: BUSINESS INSIDER ‚Äî ‚ÄúThe project premise is based on the notion that Cyprus' banking sector would cease to function and that a Bitcoin ATM would save the day. And yet the Cyprus banking system is functioning again, and ATMs have been functioning the whole time.‚Äù JEFF BERWICK ‚Äì This is not the project‚Äôs premise.¬† The history is we bought the original ATM machine which has been being developed by a young man for the last two years a few months ago.¬† It could only accept cash and not dispense cash, though, so we developed it to the point that it is now a fully bi-directional ATM (btc-cash and cash-btc).¬† We finished that and had our first working model ready and we wanted to announce it was ready and we wanted to announce where we would put the first one.¬† We looked around the world and just decided Cyprus made a lot of sense since the banking system has been all but shutdown for the last two weeks.¬† We now have orders for 300+ machines in 30+ countries and are moving quickly to handle the demand. BI¬†‚Äî¬†"The Bitcoin ATM page is extremely vague and says it's seeking investors/partners, which means there's no actual product yet.‚Äù JB ‚Äî Yes, the page is a work in progress but just because we are seeking investors/partners doesn‚Äôt mean there is no actual product.¬† We have the product ready and we may actually install one asap in Los Angeles (where our operations are) just to show the world it works.¬† We are seeking investors to help fund our expansion as we are completely swamped with orders and interest and need to hire many people to keep up with demand.¬† We will be closing a first round of investment, like somewhere between $1-3 million in the next few weeks and already have more than that ready from serious investors. BI ‚Äî ‚ÄúAnother alarm bell for us is that while Berwick boasts of StockHouse.com's large market cap at the height of the tech bubble, he says he sold it in 2002.‚Äù JB ‚Äî That is all 100% true and verifiable.¬† I don‚Äôt see the problem here. He also forwarded the following images of their prototype: Jeff Berwick And here are mockups of the deposit screen: Jeff Berwick Jeff Berwick Berwick will appear on CNBC at 11:35 am today.
Gold is taking a beating this morning. It was trading sideways until 8 AM, when it really started heading south. In the last hour, it's fallen $15 per ounce and is now down around 1 percent on the day at $1586. The chart below shows the move. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
AP ImagesFormer Securities and Exchange Commission chairwoman Mary†Schapiro is joining private consultancy firm that has developed a reputation as a shadow regulator, the Wall Street Journal reports. She join Promontory Financial Group as a managing director in their Washington, D.C. offices, the report said.† Schapiro told the Journal that it's "no revolving door" and she won't be going back to the government. †She also said she will never appear at a government agency on behalf of a client, the report said. Schapiro has held major regulatory positions including head of the SEC, FINRA and the CFTC.†
Fannie Mae ‚Äî the much-hated, government-backed entity that needed a massive bailout and gets accused of inflating the housing bubble ‚Äî just reported its biggest annual profit in history. From the announcement that came out this morning: Fannie Mae (FNMA/OTC) today reported annual net income of $17.2 billion for 2012 and quarterly net income of $7.6 billion for the fourth quarter of 2012, compared with a net loss of $16.9 billion for 2011. The improvement in the company‚Äôs full-year and quarterly net income was due primarily to improved credit results driven by a decline in serious delinquency rates, an increase in home prices, higher sales prices on Fannie Mae-owned properties, and the company‚Äôs resolution agreements with Bank of America. So the comeback that we're seeing around the country in housing and credit is benefiting Fannie Mae big time. What's more, the company is paying back the government for the huge bailout it got. You can see in this chart that in 2012 it cut a gigantic $11.6 billion check to the Treasury, as it pays back its bailout. Fannie
APMalcolm SmithState Sen. Malcolm Smith and city Councilman Dan Halloran were among six arrested Tuesday morning in a sweeping corruption probe intended to rig the New York City mayoral election, according to multiple reports.¬† Smith, a Democratic State Senator, and Halloran, a Republican, allegedly plotted to get Smith on the mayoral ballot as a Republican candidate, according to the New York Post. Smith allegedly tried to buy Republican support in at least three boroughs, which he would have needed to run as a GOP candidate. In order to get on the ballot as a Republican candidate,Smith teamed up with Halloran to arrange meetings with Republican Party leaders to negotiate thousands of dollars in bribes, according to the Post. They allegedly marked the money as going toward legal and accounting services.  Two Republicans ‚Äî¬†Bronx Republican Chairman Joseph Savino and Queens GOP Vice Chairman Vincent Tabone ‚Äî allegedly took the bribes. Late last year, Smith was one of five Democratic Senators to defect from a potential majority and form an Independent Democratic Conference with Republicans, irking Gov. Andrew Cuomo. He was briefly the Senate's Majority Leader in 2009. His arrest could end up shifting the State Senate balance and weaken Republican control.
APJust breaking now: The Finance Minister of Cyprus Michael Sarris has resigned. This comes in the wake of a very tumultuous bailout for the country, which saw large depositors at two large banks get slammed. According to Bloomberg, the resignation is the result of an ongoing investigation. Sarris has not been Finance Minister very long, as the current Cypriot Government has only been in power since early this year.
Bloomberg TelevisionTop Goldman strategist Abby Joseph Cohen is on BloombergTV talking stocks with Tom Keene. Cohen is known for being generally bullish, and she is not disappointing today. She is bullish on US stocks, despite stocks being at record highs. She says that contrary to popular belief, the real economy has actually roared back more than the stock market has. And furthermore, for the first time since the crisis ended, the US economy has found momentum, suggesting in her view that the next recession is "pretty far off into the future." If you've missed this rally, she doesn't suggest jumping in all at once, but engaging in a diversification process, trimming down cash and bond exposure.
Bloomberg TVSocGen currency analyst Sebastien Galy has just received his first request for analysis on Bitcoin, the red-hot digital currency that's become the obsession of the media and parts of the internet. In an email to Business Insider, Galy says he's been besieged with questions from journalists in recent weeks, but that his first actual client inquired about an hour ago. So anyway, Galy felt obliged to email some comments about valuing Bitcoins, and where they could be going. Here are some of his comments: Bitcoins have a money supply that is theoretically increasing following an algorithm approximating the effort of mining. With far more rapid advances in the technology of processing than mining, the rules have already been changed to stop some form of mining. This is effectively a form of revaluation of the currency. ‚ÄúMonetary Approach‚Äù - One way to value bitcoins would be to compare the money supply of the US vs bitcoins. That simplistic approach would make bitcoins very valuable if they end up being able to buy the same USD asset. This is a supply approach and easily insolvable.... Techinicals - From a trading point of view, we broke out of the upward trending channel in an exponential upswing typical of aggressive bubbles. As all bubbles there is a good story behind it, the trick would be to measure both the supply side and more importantly demand side value of bitcoins.
Carlos Barria /ReutersThou shalt remember who's in charge. SHANGHAI (Reuters) - With its rare apology, Apple Inc went from pariah to praiseworthy in the eyes of China's state-controlled media, a lesson for other foreign firms not to underestimate the speed and power of the government press. After coming under near-daily media assault for the past two weeks and facing the threat of penalties from two Chinese government bureaus, Apple apologized to Chinese consumers on Monday for poor communication over its warranty policy and said it will change the terms for some of its iPhones sold in China. Greater China is Apple's second-biggest and fastest-growing market, with sales up almost 40 percent to $6.8 billion in the final quarter of 2012. The Chinese newspapers that threw brickbats at Apple a few days ago have since changed their tune. "The company's apology letter has eased the situation, softening the tense relationship between Apple and the Chinese market ... Its reaction is worth respect compared with other American companies," wrote popular tabloid the Global Times, published by Communist Party mouthpiece the People's Daily. The Foreign Ministry praised Apple for "conscientiously" responding to consumers' demands. "We approve of what Apple said," spokesman Hong Lei told a daily news briefing on Tuesday. Only last week, the People's Daily issued a scathing editorial on Apple's return policy saying the popular smartphone maker was filled with "unparalleled arrogance". Apple was first targeted in mid-March by state broadcaster CCTV during its annual consumer day segment. Volkswagen AG, which was also criticized on the same show, plans to recall vehicles to fix a gearbox problem. "That Timothy Cook had to step up and respond from the CEO's chair shows the importance of China and how critical it is as a market not just for Apple but for every multinational company here," said Kent Kedl, Shanghai-based head of Greater China and North Asia for risk consultancy firm Control Risks. Foreign companies who are adept at managing media crises at home find it much tougher to navigate China where state media outlets, pandering to different audiences, often have opaque agendas and intentions. Analysts also said that foreign companies need to remember that the bigger the brand, the bigger a target it will be, especially in China. "What foreign companies need to pay attention to, is that nobody operates in a vacuum, nobody operates only on the good graces of a brand name ... Five to ten years ago a report on CCTV would have rippled a little bit, now it goes viral and has a life of its own," Kedl said. NOT APPLE'S FIGHT TO WIN Apple's acquiescence in this setting, where the world's largest technology company by market value was ironically the David going up against China's Goliath state media machinations, shows its wisdom in not challenging a more powerful enemy. Although popular opinion on the Internet swayed in Apple's favor, against state media and the reported threats of penalties from China's State Administration for Industry and Commerce as well as its quality and inspection bureau, it was not Apple's fight to win, experts said. Other foreign companies targeted by CCTV, such as fast food chain operator Yum Brands Inc, have also apologized and faced scrutiny from government agencies. Last December CCTV reported that two of Yum's suppliers purchased chickens from farmers who used excessive levels of antibiotics in their animals. The report and subsequent investigations hurt sales at Yum's KFC chain. But Apple's situation is somewhat different because CCTV's claim was not completely new. Last July, a Chinese consumer rights group also slammed Apple for its after-sales policies. That time, however, Apple held its ground. With the apology and warranty change, Apple's mea culpa is significant not just because it comes from a tech firm that rarely apologizes, but also because Apple may be realizing that in China, it needs to be proactive. "They're out of the woods and into the weeds. Things will rarely be smooth for Apple in China - even if consumers love it there will always be factions in and out of government that are trying to take it down," said Michael Clendenin, managing director of technology consultancy RedTech Advisors. "Apple made it easy this time, but they have learned to be more proactive. The next time they stumble, it will be easier to recover," he said. (Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard in BEIJING; Editing by Emily Kaiser) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
REUTERS/Lee CelanoGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Wikimedia CommonsThe rise of bitcoin, an electronic currency traded on an online exchange, has generated a media frenzy. Once scoffed at, its value has risen by 631% (denominated in dollars) since the start of 2013. Lots of people think that means we‚Äôre in a bitcoin bubble and it will eventually pop. But if you‚Äôre one of these bitcoin bears, the company doesn‚Äôt make it easy for you to ‚Äúshort‚Äù it‚Äîi.e., bet that its value will go down. The usual way to short a currency is to use a currency pair‚Äîsomething like EUR/USD, the value of a euro denominated in dollars‚Äîwhich trades as a single unit. For example, if the euro was trading at $1.3000, you would ‚Äúborrow‚Äù a currency pair from your broker, which you have to return within a certain period of time, and sell it on the open market, pocketing $1.30. If after an hour EUR/USD is trading at $1.2950, you can buy the currency pair at that price and return it to your broker, making a profit of $0.0050. (If you‚Äôre wrong, you lose out.) Most of the exchanges which allow you to trade bitcoins, however, don‚Äôt currently offer anything like currency pairs, nor any other futures or derivatives. Which means you would have to amass a stock of actual bitcoins to bet on them. That gets expensive. One day, if bitcoin becomes well established, institutional foreign exchange dealers could make markets in bitcoins. (Among the current obstacles: There are only 11 million bitcoins in existence, and there can never be more than 21 million, so it‚Äôs not a very liquid market. If a way ever emerges to break bitcoins up into small fractions, that might solve the problem.)¬†But for those looking to short bitcoins right now, there are two notable ways to do it: Still, do you really want to short bitcoins? The market is still pretty volatile, and because it‚Äôs an unfamiliar mix of currency and equity, it‚Äôs likely to stay that way for a while. Remarks Cullen Roche, the founder of Orcam Financial Group, ‚ÄúYou‚Äôd probably be better off just going to Vegas though. You‚Äôll have more fun, about the same odds, and the drinks in the casino will be free.‚Äù If you‚Äôd like to make us aware of any other means of shorting bitcoin, please email sf@qz.com.
Beck Diefenbach, ReutersGoldman Sachs has removed Apple from its famous 'Conviction Buy' list. Here's why: We remove Apple from the Americas Conviction List, but we maintain our Buy rating.Based on Mondayís close, AAPL has gained 33.8% since being added the Conviction Liston December 12, 2010, versus a 25.9% gain in the S&amp;P 500. Our new 12-month targetprice is $575, from $660 previously, based on a 13X multiple (previously 14X) on ourlowered CY2013 EPS estimate of $44.64 (previously $47.29). Key risks include delayedproduct cycles, supply chain difficulties, product price erosion, and a slower pace ofproduct innovation. - GSCO Of course, here's the real reason. @thestalwart Real reason: "the stock went down huge; we don't know why; horse gone so let's shut the barn door"
Flickr/najeebkhan2009There was some dismal data today out of Europe, but it appears to have been priced in. Stocks are now on a huge tear. The economy is miserable, but markets are not surprised. For more on today's data, see here &gt;
Flickr / World Bank PhotoThe analysts at Societe Generale have just published a massive 27-page special report titled: "The End Of The Gold Era." "Our expectations for rising interest rates, driven in part by a positive view of the US economy with an associated improvement in the dollar, could be the perfect storm to start a longer-term bear market," write the analysts led by Patrick Legland.¬† "Professional sentiment, as evidenced by heavy redemptions in ETFs and the increasing willingness of managed money investors to trade from the short side, confirms our view that gold may have had its ‚Äúlast hurrah‚Äù." Indeed, this latter trend is "hugely bearish" as it threatens to create a massive supply glut.¬† And this bearish turn has only intensified in just the last few months. SocGen notes two¬† stats: Check out this ugly chart: Societe Generale Regarding fundamentals, SocGen notes that gold has benefitted from fears of inflation fanned by the Federal Reserve's easy monetary policy. "But inflation has so far stayed low (US inflation has been trending lower since late 2011) and now we are beginning to see: 1) the economic conditions that would justify an end to the Fed‚Äôs QE; 2) fiscal stabilisation that has passed its inflection point; and 3) a US dollar that has begun trending higher. It seems unlikely that investors would want to add much to their long gold positions in this context." That brings us to a point of contention that not everyone agrees with.¬† And that's the Fed's expected exit strategy. They write: "Our base case ‚Äì depicted in the chart below ‚Äì is that the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet will continue to expand at $85bn/month through September, at which point purchases may be tapered modestly to $65bn/month until being fully terminated at the end of the year." Societe Generale SocGen sees two scenarios that would be bearish for gold: The full report is loaded and quite bearish toward gold. "Our base case 2013 forecast for gold is for $1500/oz on average, and $1375/oz by year‚Äôs end." This is much more bearish than the consensus, which calls for gold to end the year at around $1,750.

We recently got the opportunity to interview Peter Orszag (Citi Vice Chair and Obama's CBO chief). One of the topics we discussed was health care spending. Everyone knows that health care spending is the big driver of long-term US spending (and deficits) but as people have been noticing (and as Orszag has written about) health care and Medicare spending has been coming in below what people have projected. The question is: Is this a blip related to the weak economy, or the beginning of a real structural shift? Orszag offered three reasons why this shift is likely to be real. 1. Medicare is slowing down faster than the commercial space. It would be strange if it Medicare slowed down due to an economic shift, since it's mostly immune from the economy. Furthermore, you're seeing a lot of improvement in the high-cost areas, which again is consistent with a structural change, not just a cyclical one. 2. We're not seeing the biggest slowdown in the states with the worst economy. 3. There are structural things that are changing. The system is digitizing rapidly. There's less fee-for-service. There's also more cost sharing between employees and employers. Here's the video: Produced by Business Insider Video
ZolOne reason Apple is losing market share in emerging markets like China and India is that Apple's devices cost a fortune relative to the average incomes in the country. This is why Wall Street is hoping that Apple will release a cheaper version of the iPhone this year--so the company can more fully participate in the explosive gadget growth in emerging markets. Journalist Adam Minter tweeted a link to the article below, which captures a vivid image of Apple's emerging-markets problem. Minter says the article is from a China tech news site. The tech-news writeup is second-hand, and the original story may obviously be fake or planted or anti-Apple propaganda. But the picture and story are amusing, nonetheless. The article describes a Chinese art student who borrowed money to buy Apple gadgets last year and then had to carry bricks at a construction site for 8 days to pay off the loans. The student's conclusion, according to the story and Google Translate? "If you let me choose again, I would rather not have Apple devices." Here's a snapshot of the Google Translate version: Zol And here's the conclusion: Zol
We were just talking about what a disaster the Eurozone economy was. And here's more evidence. Unemployment? 12%, same as last month. Eurostat And as for total joblessness: *Euro-Zone Jobless Total 19.071 Million, Highest Since Records Began
Kane HsiehRomotive co-founders playing with the robotFor about a decade now, people have been slamming California as being one of the least business-friendly states in the Union. The refrain goes something like this: taxes are too high, Sacramento too dysfunctional, pollution too suffocating. And there is definitely something to this.† The talk recently heated up when Texas Gov. Rick Perry aired a series of ads across California touting his state's lower taxes and more favorable regulations. But one tech CEO says that, for his industry, there remains no alternative to the Golden State. Last month, Las Vegas-based robotics company Romotive†announced it was picking up stakes to move somewhere in Silicon Valley (they haven't narrowed down exactly where yet). Keller Rinaudo, the company's founder, spoke to us via Skype late last week to explain the decision to move from a low-tax state to a back to California. He said he actually agreed with the criticisms that folks like Perry have made, to a point. "It was not a short-term economic decision," he said. "California is one of the most friendly and unfriendly business environments in the world." The company anticipates more taxes and a higher cost of living, he said. But to achieve their goal of building the world's first affordable personal robot,†they had to be on the West Coast. "We have to find†experienced roboticists, and that really only exists in a few places in the world, and California is one of them."  The California advantage is not limited to robots. Many startups crave the engineering talent pool coming out of places like†Stanford, he said.  And for tech, the Valley is still where the money is. "I†know lots of other tech companies that end up moving to the Bay Area, I think in a lot of cases though it has to do with needing investment. We're backed by a lot of really strong investors, and then finding proximity to a research center...We're building robots, not building an e-commerce store." MIT and Carnegie Mellon have the talent, he said, but Boston and Pittsburgh lack the startup community that's flowered in and around San Francisco. Rinaudo said he's spoken with lots of other firms already in the area to try to narrow down exactly what town they want to be in. "There are†lots of startups in the Bay Area who are approximately our size who were super helpful about opening their financials, giving us a sense of going into it with eyes wide open." Bottom line is this: For all the talk about taxes and trying to lure dynamic companies out of the state, it's really hard for other places to match the Silicon Valley talent and money community. And for dynamic companies there's just no substitute for that.
Despite the string of horrendous manufacturing reports across Europe, markets are taking them in stride, as they were mostly expected. Italy is down on the day. Spain is flat on the day. France and Germany are up a little bit, but nothing to write home about. US futures are up a little. Meanwhile, it was an ugly night in Asia. Japan's Nikkei continues to lose steam. Stocks fell another 1%, which was on top of the greater than 1% decline the day before. The big Abenomics rally has really started to fade, as doubts rise about whether the Central Bank can engineer the inflation and recovery it has promised. Stocks lost 0.3% in Shanghai. For the full rundown of the economic mess in Europe today, see here.
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann Over the last hour or so, Eurozone countries reported their PMI readings for March. A PMI reading is a gauge of a country's manufacturing sector. Anything above 50 indicates expansion from the month before. Anything below 50 indicates contraction. Every single reading was below 50 this month. The numbers were completely disastrous. Via Markit, here's a breakdown of some of what we just saw. Markit Markit Markit March was a truly horrible month for Europe. This is of course, in addition to the crisis in Cyprus and the political turmoil in Italy, which still doesn't have a government. But really this is the biggest one. Europe is seeing non-stop economic decline, which is a state of affairs that's terrible for banks. Terrible for national finances. And it's terrible for politics. If growth heals all, then recessions exacerbates all. Unfortunately, nobody has any clear idea how to address the situation. The ECB hasn't been doing much. And mostly the demands of the elites regard austerity.
Even Germany is bad. Earlier we talked about ugly PMI numbers from France, Spain, Ireland, and Italy. And now even Germany is seeing contraction. The manufacturing gauge fell to 49.0 from 50.3 in March, according to Markit. Here's the overall summary. Markit
This technically counts as a "green shoot" in Europe. French PMI actually ticked higher, from 43.8 in February to 44.0 in March. Unfortunately, anything sub-50 is a sign of contraction, and anything as low as 44 is deep contraction. So just like all of the other European countries reporting PMIs today, France is in a really bad state. Here's the general overview from Markit: Markit
They just keep coming this morning: National PMI reports for Europe are awful. We've already mentioned Ireland and Spain. Now here's Italy, where the manufacturing sector just hit a 7-month low. The number sank from 45.8 to 44.5. From Markit Markit
Business Insider / Jill KrasnyEarlier we posted on the ugly contraction seen in Spanish PMI. But they're not alone this morning. Ireland has come out with an ugly number as well. Remember, Ireland has been one of the standout stories for Europe. It has done the best job getting its borrowing costs down, and regaining market confidence. And its economy has done well. But now it's wilting. For March, its PMI fell from 51.5 to 48.6, a sign of a severe quick downturn. Here's the general story, from Markit: Markit 
As we expected, today's PMI readings for Europe are showing the economic trainwreck on full display. Remember, a PMI reading is a gauge of a country's manufacturing sector. Anything below 50 is contraction. Spain has just fallen from 46.8 to 44.2. Here's the broad summary. Markit
