Flickr/Medill DCWASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama hinted in an interview aired on Monday that he may be looking for a new chief of the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank, saying current Chairman Ben Bernanke has stayed a lot longer than he had originally planned. Obama, speaking to Charlie Rose, host of a PBS interview program, compared Bernanke to longtime FBI Director Robert Mueller, who agreed to stay two years longer than he had planned and is to leave in the coming months. "Well, I think Ben Bernanke's done an outstanding job. Ben Bernanke's a little bit like Bob Mueller, the head of the FBI - where he's already stayed a lot longer than he wanted or he was supposed to," Obama said. Asked whether he would reappoint Bernanke if he wanted to keep the job, Obama did not answer directly. "He has been an outstanding partner, along with the White House, in helping us recover much stronger than, for example, our European partners, from what could have been an economic crisis of epic proportions," Obama said. Bernanke, who has tried to nurse along the ailing U.S. economy through the 2008 financial crisis, is widely expected to step down when his second term as chairman expires at the end of January. Obama is said to be considering a number of monetary experts for the job, including Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen, former Obama and Clinton aide Lawrence Summers, and former Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. An announcement could come as early as this fall, to give the Fed nominee time to get through Senate confirmation by the time Bernanke's term is up. (Additional reporting by Jeff Mason; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The protests in Turkey continue to dominate the attention of media, but today there were two other protests in red-hot emerging markets that warrant your attention, especially since the basic narratives are fairly similar. In Indonesia and Brazil ó where governments are hoping to pursue fiscal consolidation ó protests have turned violent. In Indonesia the initial driver of protests is the removal of a fuel subsidy. In Brazil, it's over an increase in bus fares, as well as general frustration over inequality, and the money being spent on next year's World Cup. Both ó along with other emerging markets ó are experiencing slowing economies, sharply weakening currencies, rising interest rates, and generally a squeeze related to both financial and structural conditions. The following four images, and descriptions, are from the AP. The first two are from Indonesia: A student protester fires a firework at the riot police during a rally against the government's plan to raise fuel prices outside the parliament building in Jakarta, Indonesia, Monday, June 17, 2013. Indonesia's parliament is expected to approve a budget that will slash government fuel subsidies, a move that will save the government billions of dollars but has already sparked angry protests opposing increased gasoline prices.  Student protesters hurl rocks at the riot police during a rally against the government's plan to raise fuel prices outside the parliament building in Jakarta, Indonesia, Monday, June 17, 2013. Indonesia's parliament is expected to approve a budget that will slash government fuel subsidies, a move that will save the government billions of dollars but has already sparked angry protests opposing increased gasoline prices.  And from Brazil:  Protestors march in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Monday, June 17, 2013. Protests in Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and other Brazilian cities, set off by a 10-cent hike in public transport fares, have clearly moved beyond that issue to tap into widespread frustration in Brazil about a heavy tax burden, politicians widely viewed as corrupt and woeful public education, health and transport systems and come as the nation hosts the Confederations Cup soccer tournament and prepares for next month's papal visit.   A policeman lies injured on the ground after clashing with demonstrators during a protest in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Monday, June 17, 2013. Officers in Rio fired tear gas and rubber bullets when a group of protesters invaded the state legislative assembly and threw rocks and flares at police as protesters massed in at least seven Brazilian cities Monday for another round of demonstrations voicing disgruntlement about life in the country, raising questions about security during big events like the current Confederations Cup and a papal visit next month. 
China's credit bubble is unlike anything in modern history, according to Fitch.¬† Ambrose Evans-Pritchard of The Daily Telegraph reported that Fitch thinks the scale of Chinese credit is so massive that it can no longer grow out of its excesses. And the statistics are scary: In light of this, we put together four charts on China's credit bubble that you need to see. Societe Generale In China, wealth management products are popular, interest-bearing retail products that are backed by a hodge-podge of risky assets. They function as a replacement for normal investment/savings accounts, but are not guaranteed.  A crackdown on Wealth Management Products (WMPs) has seen WMP issuance slow in 2013. But Charlene Chu at Fitch writes that this continues to pose a risk to the banking sector because it accounts for a "sizable amount of funding." "In Fitch's view, the primary risk centers on the cash payout pressure posed by WMPs' short-term nature, the poor liquidity of underlying assets, the high mobility of WMP investors, and banks' mismatched assets and liabilities." Fitch  Fitch SHIBOR is considered a useful proxy for liquidity in the Chinese credit markets, more specifically, the recent spike in Shibor showed a liquidity squeeze. In a new note, Morgan Stanley's Richard Xu writes that "SHIBOR and repo two-week rates did not ease significantly after the three-day holiday, and one-month rates even spiked by ~80bps, implying that the recent liquidity tightness is likely more associated with recent intense regulatory actions than holiday effect." Morgan Stanley These four charts show the rise in China's credit bubble and the recent liquidity squeeze.
REUTERS/Yannis BehrakisLast week, the Greek government shut down public broadcasting station ERT to prove it was serious about austerity. This was the equivalent of Washington finally acting out on its threat to cut funding to PBS or NPR. But in Greece, the move has brought the masses to the streets. And it now it appears to have mortally wounded Greek PM Antonis Samaras.† It's another classic example of how small incidents can spiral into much larger crises (we are seeing this play out in Turkey).† It's hard to argue that ERT didn't need some reform: its 2,600 employees, three domestic television channels as well as radio stations cost Greek taxpayers†300 million euros ($400 million) a year, according to Reuters. By comparison, PBS operates every single one of its affiliates with just a bit more money (along with viewer support).†A government spokesman said it had become a "typical case of ... incredible waste". What has the country up in arms was the manner in which the decision came down. The move did not require legislative approval, but Samaras appears to have consulted no one else in his coalition.†The leaders of the coalition's junior parties said it would not abide by "faits accomplis" and called seizure "a coup." Guardian correspondent Helena Smith says Samaras' decision instantly caused the goodwill he'd built up over the past year or so to vaporize: His shock decision to close ERT has been met with as much criticism from conservatives and challenges to his rule from within his own New Democracy party cannot be ruled out. Smith spoke with one analyst who predicted that while the coalition will survive for now, it won't make it through another test, and likely won't survive to see the end of 2014. The government is totally dysfunctional. There are just too many accumulated problems, the deficit, the real economy, the recession, privatisations, restructuring of the public sector, for any government to solve," says the political analyst Giorgos Kyrtsos. "The scenario of snap elections happening is no more than 10-15 percent. But whether the government will survive the next six months is another issue. Some other problem will emerge that it can't deal with. I give it an 80 percent chance of collapsing over the winter of 2013-14. Greek bond yields had already been trending higher in the past few weeks. This did not help: Investing.com We told you about how the same guys who put on the Eurovision song contest†had helped Greek public broadcaster ERT broadcast a guerrilla signal†to keep it going while its fate was decided. Today, a court ruled a rump-ERT must be able to broadcast until a new public station is established.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Brian Belski: 'Investors Should Prepare For More Back-And-Forth Action This Summer' (BMO Capital Markets) BMO Capital Markets' Brian Belski maintains his 1,575 S&amp;P 500 year-end target. In a new note, he writes, "To be clear, we continue to believe US stocks are the most attractive fundamental asset in the world, a quality that should define performance and allocations for the next several years." He also writes that U.S. stocks are "in the midst of their next secular bull market." But he is worried that investors are using "very little analysis, process and common sense (at least on a near-term basis)" in making investment decisions and that they are ignoring the "downside risk associated with stock prices disconnecting from fundamentals." With recent disappointing consumption, manufacturing and employment data, Belski writes that investors should "prepare for more back-and-forth action this summer ñ not just up and not just down ñ as the market sifts through what is likely to be choppy fundamental and economic data in the coming months." FINRA Regulator Resigns After A Charitable Bingo Fraud Is Revealed (Bloomberg)  A letter from former securities broker David Evansen to Richard Ketchum, CEO of FINRA, and Susan Axelrod, executive vice president at FINRA, is believed to have prompted the resignation of FINRA official Mitchell C. Atkins. Atkins was a regional director and head of FINRA's District 7 in Boca Raton, Florida. Evansen's letter showed that Atkins had pleaded guilty to charitable bingo fraud in 1993. "Evansen said he looked into Atkinsí past after he decided Atkins and his staff werenít considering his communications about an enforcement case against him," Bloomberg reported. There Has Been A Paradigm Shift In Many Investors' Attitude Towards Gold (Societe Generale) After talking with clients, the opinion of SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale analysts hasn't changed. They think the gold sell-off, along with concerns about Fed tapering, have caused "a paradigm shift in many investorsí attitude towards gold." "This is likely to result in continued large-scale gold ETF selling this year and next ... ETF gold selling has averaged about 100 tonnes per month since the April sell-off. We expect continued ETF selling to exceed higher demand for jewelery/bars and coins. Therefore, we have revised lower our Q4 13 gold forecast to $1,200/oz." Societe Generale Brokerages Are Giving Advisors Bigger Payouts To Craft Financial Plans (The Wall Street Journal) Many advisors don't create financial plans for their clients. But brokerages have found that clients with financial plans are less likely to move their business to a competitor. With that in mind, the Wall Street Journal reports that more brokerages are trying to get their advisors to begin financial planning and are throwing cash at their advisors to do so.† UBS Wealth Management Americas is now giving advisors a payout that would be 50% of the charge of the plan, as long as the plan is over $1,000, and 15% credit to the advisor's expense account, the WSJ reports.  Stan Druckenmiller Explains Why Hedge Fund Managers Don't Like Ben Bernanke (Goldman Sachs via Zero Hedge) In an interview with Goldman Sachs, American hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller explained why hedge fund managers don't like Fed chairman Ben Bernanke. Via Zero Hedge:"It has become harder for me, because the importance of my skills is receding. Part of my advantage, is that my strength is economic forecasting, but that only works in free markets, when markets are smarter than people. Thatís how I started. I watched the stock market, how equities reacted to change in levels of economic activity and I could understand how price signals worked and how to forecast them. Today, all these price signals are compromised and Iím seriously questioning whether I have any competitive advantage left."Ten years ago, if the stock market had done what it has just done now, I could practically guarantee you that growth was going to accelerate. Now, it's a possibility, but I would rather say that the market is rigged and people are chasing these assets, without growth necessarily backing confidence. It's not predicting anything the way it used to and that really makes me reconsider my ability to generate superior returns. If the most important price in the most important economy in the world is being rigged, and everything else is priced off it, what am I supposed to read into other price movements?"
Discussions of tax progressivity tend to have a low ratio of signal to noise. The following chart should clear up a few things. Business Insider, data from Tax Policy Center and Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy Here are the big takeaways: Our tax code is highly progressive. Almost everybody pays something. Even the poorest 20 percent of American households (who make on average about $11,000) pay 13 percent of their incomes in tax. The wealthiest 1% pay a rate of 43%, about 3.5 times as much. Now that you've seen the chart, I have a few instructions: 1. Stop talking about "non-payers" or "the 47 percent" or using any other talking point about how a worrisomely large share of Americans don't pay taxes. Don't call people who don't pay federal income tax "lucky duckies." Almost everybody pays taxes. 2. Stop ignoring state and local taxes. In his paper "Defending the One Percent," Harvard economist Greg Mankiw responds to liberal claims about tax regressivity by citing Congressional Budget Office data showing that, as of 2009, the bottom quintile of earners paid just 1% of their income in federal tax while the top 1% paid 29%. But state and local taxes are modestly regressive, partly offsetting the figure Mankiw cites. 3. Stop fretting about the progressivity of any specific tax.¬†There are good reasons for some taxes to be more progressive than others. Particularly, the federal government is in a better position to levy a highly progressive income tax than states or localities are. If the whole tax system isn't progressive enough, worry about that. Don't fixate on the fact that some component, such as Social Security payroll tax, has a regressive structure. 4. Stop talking about a flat income tax like it were some especially fair and natural thing. Conservatives often talk about flat taxes as being fair because everyone pays the same share of their income. Setting aside whether that's actually fair, it isn't even true; a flat tax on income would combine with other components of the tax code to make our overall system regressive. 5. Stop fixating on Warren Buffett. Buffett likes to talk about how his tax rate is lower than his secretary's. That's misleading. Buffett's tax return doesn't reflect the corporate income tax paid by the companies he owns equities in. Exactly who bears the burden of corporate income tax is a controversial topic, but the most common view is that a majority is borne by owners of capital, while a minority of the tax gets shifted to workers in the form of lower wages. If you distribute the burden of corporate income tax according to that assumption, you find that effective tax rates keep going up as you get into the top 1% and top 0.1%. It¬†is not typical for the ultra-wealthy to pay lower tax rates than the affluent workers under them. Data for the chart above are drawn from calculations by the¬†Tax Policy Center and the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy.
Flickr via emeryjlFor many children, one primary exposure to¬†just a piece of financial literacy is the Stock Market Game. The public elementary school I attended pitted a hundred or so fourth-graders against each other. After a few months, the student with the highest overall account value, not taking fees or expenses into account like the real world, was crowned the winner. Money management would not be a topic in the curricula I experienced for the remainder of my public school education. A private school with a $30 million endowment is taking the Stock Market Game a step further, by¬†giving sixteen-year-olds¬†$100,000, raised by parents, friends and alumni. This investment club will play the stock market with and for real money. The head of the school believes that this type of real-life experience is more effective in education than the funny-money stock market simulation games. One of the club‚Äôs student vice presidents just happens to have a father who is on the school‚Äôs own investment committee ‚Äî a group of adults who manage the school‚Äôs endowment. The club‚Äôs original idea to manage a small portion of the school‚Äôs endowment was met with a cold response, so the school raised the money specifically for the club. The stakes are higher, and knowing that the students could lose real money might help them take a more conservative approach to managing money and taking less risk. Yet, this $100,000 was given to them. They didn‚Äôt have to work to earn this money; they did nothing but ask for $30,000 to $50,000, and they were pleasantly surprised when $100,000 fell in their laps. The stakes are higher than those for students playing the Stock Market Game in fourth grade, but they aren‚Äôt real-world stakes. Managing other people‚Äôs money, while an important role, is not the same is managing one‚Äôs own money. The skills they might be learning might help them prepare for a career as an investment manager, but might not lead to any positive skills for household money management. Due to their environment, these students might not have any idea how privileged they are. Unless the club has a faculty adviser who endeavors to teach more than just trading in the stock market, they might miss an important concept when dealing with money. There are so many struggling high schools in this country, both public and private. While $100,000 in one community could help a struggling school afford basic educational necessities or could help an overcrowded school hire an additional teacher, the money raised here is designated for teaching one lesson that may not be all that necessary. It‚Äôs somewhat of a false argument; anytime you spend money you could ask yourself what right you have to spend it when there are children in the world who desperately need it to survive, but continually framing spending decisions in that manner will surely lead to insanity. Generally, people make up for the guilt by being socially conscious, at least when they‚Äôre aware of their privilege. If the students truly want to take a long-term view, they‚Äôd be less concerned about beating the school‚Äôs own investment committee. Various studies have shown that people simply can‚Äôt, over time, beat market indices. They should be investing in index funds, full stop. If their investment-manager parents and the club‚Äôs adviser aren‚Äôt leading them in this direction, the students should at least be learning how investment managers and the financial industry¬†do¬†make money ‚Äî through transaction fees, load fees, and management fees, all which come out of customers‚Äô pockets regardless of whether the investment choices overperform or underperform. Stock picking is no better than gambling. That doesn‚Äôt mean you shouldn‚Äôt invest in individual companies, but it generally works out for the best if you can invest like Warren Buffett: invest enough money to have a say in the company‚Äôs operations, or invest in preferred stock so you receive a better deal than other investors. Overall, the club‚Äôs investment philosophy isn‚Äôt terrible. It‚Äôs better than most individual investors. Even just having a philosophy sets them apart. The club‚Äôs 30 students outlined an investing policy, which limited them to companies worth at least $1 billion. Diversity was also key to their plan. They decided to take stakes in two companies across six sectors‚Ä¶ and not allow any single company weigh more than 15% of their entire portfolio‚Ä¶ So far, they‚Äôre down about $2,500‚Ä¶ Though the recent ups and downs in the market make the students anxious, they remain optimistic and are maintaining a long-term view‚Ä¶ The students admit they can be a bit obsessive about checking on the portfolio‚Äôs performance multiple times a day, but who wouldn‚Äôt be? The students also plan to rebalance the portfolio every six months to a year. Jobs in the investment management field could well be in their future. How do you feel about this school‚Äôs decision to raise $100,000 for its investment club? Are the students learning good financial lessons?
AP ImagesGoldman Sachs president and chief operating officer Gary Cohn will be honored tonight at Harlem RBI and DREAM Charter School's annual "Bid for Kids" gala at Cipriani on 42nd Street in Manhattan. Harlem RBI is a non-profit that began with an abandoned lot that was turned into a baseball field for 75 teenage boys 22 years ago. Since then, Harlem RBI has leveraged the enthusiasm around the sport and turned it into a comprehensive youth and education program serving 1,500 kids in East Harlem.† Just as the non-profit's name suggests, all of the kids play baseball and softball. †In order to play, they have to be involved in year-round off-the-field academic, life skill, job skill and college readiness programs, Harlem RBI's executive director Rich Berlin explained. In addition, Harlem RBI also runs a charter school, which is an extended day, extended year charter school model.† Goldman's Cohn has been a supporter of Harlem RBI since 2011.†We spoke with Cohn and Harlem RBI's Berlin over the phone earlier today ahead of this evening's festivities.† Cohn, who resides in Manhattan's Upper East Side, told us that Harlem RBI is something that is "very near and dear to his heart."† "You think of the environment that my kids have grown up versus where kids 30 blocks from me live, it's just an unfair world. And I see it every day living in New York City and understand the value of education, understand the value of teamwork, understand the value of camaraderie.†And seeing this 30 blocks from my house, it felt like I had to get involved in it and these kids they deserve every break they can get. It's not their fault that they were born on 104th Street versus 75th Street. Anything we can do, we should do."† Cohn's involvement began a few years ago when Harlem RBI was given the opportunity to build their own charter school. †That's when New York Yankees player Mark Teixeira and Berlin came to see him to raise capital.  The way the charter school system in New York works is through public-private partnerships. †Harlem RBI had to come up with $20 million of equity capital and then the city would give them the remaining money, which was about $65 million.† "The cause is one that is near and dear to my heart, but what really got me was the passion that Mark and Rich had about their project," Cohn said. † He visited Harlem to see the non-profit's facilities and after spending more and more time there he said he "sort of got swept in."† "Gary is being a little modest because in addition to making his own giftóhis condition of making his personal gift was that he would have the opportunity to help us raise more dollars for that capital campaign," Berlin added. Harlem RBI is a popular non-profit to support in the financial community. Other big names in the industry who will be present this evening include Blackstone's David Blitzer, Highbridge Capital's CEO Todd Builione, Goldman's Head of Americas FICC Sales Thomas Cornacchia, Goldman's Global Co-head of the Investment Management Division Eric Lane, Blackstone's Senior Managing Director of Private Equity †Vik Sawhney, Goldman Managing Director†Donald Truesdale and Goldman's David Solomon.† Goldman has over $400 million invested in Harlem in a variety of different projects, Cohn told us.†"But the education one is near and dear to a lot of the partners here," he added. This is also Harlem RBI's biggest fundraiser for the year. The organizational budget for Harlem RBI is close to $20 million. Historically, the event has brought in anywhere between $1.5 to $2 million.† "Tonight, with Gary's leadership we expect to break the $4 million mark," Berlin said. Cohn sees his involvement with the organization as a low-risk/high-yield investment. † Just look at the numbers...† One-hundred percent of the Harlem RBI 2013 senior class graduated and 97% of them were accepted to college. †That's in a district where only 42% of students finish high school and 10% of adults have a high school diploma. "Like everything at Goldman Sachs, we measure results," he said.†
APA classic case of city†bureaucracy may stymie Bridgewater Associates' plan to relocate to a new $750 million headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut. The world's largest hedge fund is planning a move from its Westport home to an 850,000-square-foot center on a 14-acre peninsula in Stamford. But the Stamford Advocate reports a zoning disagreement over a boatyard between the city and BLT, a local land developer, has hindered negotiations.†From the Advocate: Yet three months later, the license agreement outlining the conditions of BLT's use of city property for the boatyard as well as its infrastructure contributions, is yet to be finalized. Without the critical document, neither the new boatyard nor Bridgewater can move forward in the city approval process. As of last week, there was no indication of any progress in the dialogue between the two sides. The hold up has sparked conjecture that Bridgewater head Ray Dalio may scrap the plan entirely and stay in Westport, and Stamford may lose out on as many as 2,000 jobs, $16 million in tax revenue, and $50 million in state funding. Yikes, Stamford!
Gerard BrownThe market survived a mid-afternoon taper scare to finish positive. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Wikimedia/Pierre FidenciPrice action in the stock market today tells you everything you need to know about the cognitive dissonance investors are experiencing right now. Since around 2 p.m. ET, when the FT published a preview of this week's FOMC monetary policy meeting by the pink paper's Federal Reserve correspondent, Robin Harding, U.S. stocks have taken a sharp turn lower. The headline was†"Fed likely to signal tapering move," and the knee-jerk reaction was to sell stocks. What is amazing about the market's reaction to the article is the lack of market-moving news actually presented to it. Here's the lede: "Ben Bernanke is likely to signal that the US Federal Reserve is close to tapering down its $85bn-a-month in asset purchases when he holds a press conference on Wednesday, but balance that by saying subsequent moves depend on what happens to the economy." Now, anyone who follows the Federal Reserve (which in the investment community is pretty much everyone) will recognize both of these likelihoods as eventualities that have more or less already occurred. The Fed has been candid about the possibility of tapering back stimulus this year, but has also firmly stated that the outlook for tapering is completely dependent on the economic data. This is thanks to the introduction of the Evans Rule in December, which ties the outlook for Fed monetary policy directly to specific numerical thresholds in labor market and inflation indicators. Yet, just as they did last week when WSJ reporter Jon Hilsenrath suggested in a short blog post that Ben Bernanke would strike a dovish tone at the upcoming FOMC press conference, markets reacted forcefully to the Harding headline today. With Hilsenrath's blog post, the problem is the same: no news, no quotes, no anonymous sources ñ nothing of interest, really, to anyone in the market who's been keeping up with the Fed. Hilsenrath's post is more akin to "stating the obvious" ñ all he says is that when the Federal Reserve does decide to taper back the bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing program, that won't mean that the central bank is anywhere near raising interest rates. Again, anyone who was around in December when the Federal Reserve introduced the Evans Rule should already understand that this is simply codified into U.S. monetary policy. Yet stocks and bonds, which have faced weakness over the past few weeks as taper fears have seeped into the market, both used the opportunity presented by the Hilsenrath blog post to rally. Arguably, the Federal Reserve had a lot more use for leaking information to journalists just a few years ago, but that was before it launched a new communications regime focused on increasing transparency in monetary policy decision-making. Now, with the introduction of the Evans Rule, investors should be focused on the data, not the musings of Jon Hilsenrath and Robin Harding. (Of course, Hilsenrath and Harding remain must-reads for anyone serious about following the Fed. But it's strange to think that they are still moving markets in the way that they are.) Harding said as much in a tweet after his article went up today and markets reacted: Glad people are reading my Fed preview. I've been in the September taper camp for a while and I'd stick with that. http://t.co/IGytwIYvzZ But people need to chill out. The Fed does not leak anything to any journalist to steer markets - especially during blackout. Pump a chimp full of amphetamines, put him in front of a Bloomberg and see if he doesn't fit straight in.
Andrew H. Walker/Getty ImagesTwo mournful friends dropped by our flat in Paris last Sunday. They are a well-paid couple from the caste known in†Paris†as ìbobosî: people with bourgeois incomes and bohemian tastes. In the popular narrative, bobos have invaded Paris, driving out pure bohemians and the working class. But my bobo friends had a new story: they themselves were being driven out of Paris. To get enough space for their kids, they were leaving for the suburbs. When theyíd told the headmaster at the childrenís school, he had looked sad and said: ìEveryone is leaving.î Paris is pricing out even the upper middle-class. There is a wider story here. The great global cities ñ notably†New York,†London,†Singapore,†Hong Kong†and Paris ñ are unprecedentedly desirable. At last weekís fascinating New Cities Summit in S„o Paulo, the architect Daniel Libeskind said: ìWe live in a time of renaissance Ö cities are coming back to life, after a long neglect.î Edward Luce chronicled the†urban revival in last Saturdayís FT Magazine. However, thereís an iron law of 21st-century life: when something is desirable, the ìone per centî grabs it. The great cities are becoming elite citadels. This is terrifying for everyone else. At the New Cities Summit I had a coffee with Saskia Sassen of Columbia University, leading thinker on cities. That took some doing: Sassen arrived from Bogot· that morning, and was flying to Zurich hours later. ìCities were poor,î she told me, in between. ìIn the 1970s London was broke, New York was broke, Tokyo was broke, Paris was much poorer than now. And the built environment was a bit run down.î But from the 1980s, these cities recovered. An increasingly complex financial sector needed more sophisticated networks of lawyers and accountants. Corporate mergers and takeovers meant global headquarters got concentrated in fewer places. Crime declined, making cities less scary. And so great cities grew richer. Fancy architects put up lovely buildings. House prices rose. First, the working classes and bohemians were priced out. Nowadays the only ribald proletarian banter you hear inside Paris is from the market sellers, who donít live there anymore. That was gentrification. Now comes plutocratisation: the middle classes and small companies are falling victim to class-cleansing. Global cities are becoming patrician ghettos. In 2009, says Sassen, the top 1 per cent of New York Cityís earners got 44 per cent of the compensation paid to its workers. The ìsuper-prime housing marketî keeps rising even when the national economy collapses. After Manhattan, New Yorkís upper-middle classes are being priced out of Brooklyn. Sassen diagnoses ìgradual destructionî. Global cities are turning into vast gated communities where the one per cent reproduces itself. Elite members donít live there for their jobs. They work virtually anyway. Rather, global cities are where they network with each other, and put their kids through their countryís best schools. The elite talks about its cities in ostensibly innocent language, says Sassen: ìa good education for my child,î ìmy neighbourhood and its shopsî. But the truth is exclusion. When one-per-centers travel, they meet peers from other global cities. A triangular elite circuit now links London, Paris and Brussels, notes Michael Keith, anthropology professor at Oxford. Elite New Yorkers visit London, not Buffalo. Sassen says: ìThese new geographies of centrality cut across many older divides ñ north-south, east-west, democracies versus dictator regimes. So top-level corporate and professional sectors of S„o Paulo begin to have more in common with peers in Paris, Hong Kong et cetera than with the rest of their own societies.î . . . All through history, bright young people migrated to metropolises: think of Dick Whittington, the semi-mythical medieval English country boy who ended up mayor of London. But today Dick wouldnít be able to afford a bedsit in London. Heíd have to turn down an internship. To buy in these cities now, you must either earn a fortune or inherit a house there ñ and often the same people do both. Outsiders who reach the city late rarely have the education and contacts to succeed. Inevitably, the one per cent in the global city shapes national policies. Sassen mentions core features of the ìneoliberal projectî, such as deregulating finance or privileging control of inflation over job growth. ìThe work was done in Wall Street, the City of London,î she says. Elite opinion-formers, who live in global cities alongside financiers (albeit in smaller flats), assured the little people that these policies would help everyone. Sassen sighs: ìThe capture by a very small number of cities of a lot of the excitement and wealth produced by the system ñ this is a problem.î Outside these hubs, things are less desirable. Most western cities have lost manufacturing. Market towns struggle as small-scale agriculture fades. A few secondary cities (Lyon, Denver, Bristol) thrive. Most donít. Even cities as prominent as S„o Paulo, Moscow or Johannesburg may prove too violent or congested to succeed. ìYou also have cities that simply die ñ Detroit,î adds Sassen. But if theyíre out in the sticks, nobody powerful will hear them scream.
Getty ImagesDavid Robinson (right) with current Spurs star Tim DuncanAs the Spurs close in on the NBA title, one former San Antonio player is killing it in a different competitive arena¬†‚Äî finance. David Robinson, the¬†7-foot-1 center who won two championships and an MVP during his 1989-2003¬†Spurs career, now runs a $250 million real-estate focused private equity firm, Bloomberg reports. The New York-based Admiral¬†Capital Group¬†‚Äî derived from Robinson's on-court moniker¬†‚Äî allocates 10% of the firm's profits to community projects. And Robinson counts Wall Street titans like Jamie Dimon among his friends and advisers. From Bloomberg: ‚ÄúTo use a basketball term, David‚Äôs approach to philanthropy makes him a triple threat,‚Äù Dimon said in a statement. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs passionate about making a difference, he‚Äôs smart and thoughtful about finding innovative ways to tackle tough social issues, and he‚Äôs humble enough to know he can always learn from others.‚Äù Admiral joined Hilton Worldwide Inc. to launch a program that provides job training to low income students.¬†¬†It's that spirit for community service that has won Robinson so much praise. Spurs owner Peter Holt, who served in the U.S. Army, said he intends to make an undisclosed investment in Admiral Capital. Holt, who was awarded a¬†Silver Star, three Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart for service in¬†Vietnam, said there‚Äôs one reason why Admiral Capital -- and not some behemoth investment bank -- will get his money. ‚ÄúIf David‚Äôs involved, I‚Äôll invest,‚Äù said Holt, chief executive of San Antonio-based Holt CAT, the largest Caterpillar dealership in the U.S. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know those guys on¬†Wall Street, especially now when you trade 10,000 shares a minute.‚Äù Robinson told Bloomberg he'll sign some autographs, but he requires potential partners to make a commitment to the community before benefiting from his personal brand. Read the full profile from Bloomberg&gt;
ReutersChina is seeing slower economic growth. Concerns are building over a massive credit bubble, and some say it is no longer an engine of global growth. Excess capacity ‚Äî in which demand for products is less than potential supply ‚Äî continues to be one of China's biggest problems. An excellent piece by Jamil Anderlini in today's Financial Times looks at how excess capacity and subsidies are threatening specific industries and imperiling the Chinese economy. A major contributor to this problem: China's investment-led growth-model.  This IMF chart shows the contribution of investment to GDP growth from 2000 on. IMF China's massive 4 trillion yuan stimulus, unleashed after the Lehman Crisis to stem massive unemployment, only made the excess capacity problem worse. PIMCO's Raja Mukherji pointed out that local governments in China launched their own stimulus at the time with about 13 trillion yuan in investments. "China‚Äôs 2008 economic stimulus programs may have been necessary for stabilization, but they appear to have been too large, too intensively focused on fixed assets and too heavily concentrated on construction," Mukherji wrote in a 2012 note. "All this stimulus led to massive increases in domestic capacity for steel, cement and aluminum ‚Äì while demand from export markets fell and property deflated amid financial tightening. As a result, these industries experienced massive excess capacity." What is excess capacity and why is it a problem? Chinese policy makers have been concerned about excess capacity since 2005. In the 2012 Central Economic Work Conference ‚Äî in which officials assess the current state of the economy and draw on this to set the tone for the next year's macroeconomic policy ‚Äî fixing overcapacity was once again made a priority as China begins to rebalance its economy. The IMF's Article IV assessment published in 2012 put China‚Äôs average capacity utilization about 60% at the end of 2011, from 80% at end-2007. Capacity utilization is a way of gauging slack in the economy.  This chart from SocGen draws on the IMF report to show the decline in capacity utilization:  Societe Generale The IMF said at the time that China had suffered excess capacity and utilization rates that were constantly below 80% since the 2000s. In 2007, strong external demand helped push the utilization rate higher, but this took a hit again after the Lehman crisis.  While GDP growth recovered quickly after the crisis, the IMF found that China has been growing below potential since 1997, and that the problem isn't just cyclical.  China can't count on external demand to close output gap, neither can it unleash more stimulus, Societe Generale's Wei Yao wrote in a 2012 note.  Excess capacity impacts many Chinese industries including chemicals, ferrous and non-ferrous metals, and newer industries like renewable energy. China's solar power industry has been hit by anti-dumping and anti-subsidies investigations. The inventory of finished goods sub-index in China's manufacturing PMI report, climbed to 50.2 in March. This showed that excess capacity conditions were deteriorating. This has since fallen below 50 but not enough to for concerns to wane. Recently, we saw China's biggest steelmaker Hebei Iron &amp; Steel Group and other local steel companies halt production at some of their plants in the face of declining demand, falling prices, and rising inventory.  The excess capacity in Chinese industries has weighed on producer prices too, which were down 2.9% in May.¬†The decline in producer prices shows that China is growing below potential, and¬†  CLSA's Christopher Wood who has been tracking PPI writes that "this is as good an indicator as any of the deflationary excess capacity in the system, which is why local fund managers are fond of tracking the correlation between PPI and nominal GDP growth and also more recently with the A share market." What does this mean for the economy. And how can it be fixed? Local governments have only contributed to China's excess capacity woes.  "The problem is that much of the so-called 'blind' and 'redundant' investment that Beijing would like to eliminate has the strong support of local governments, whose primary concern is with generating GDP growth in their jurisdictions, regardless of whether the means of achieving it make any economic sense," wrote Mark DeWeaver in a Project Syndicate column. China has no quick fix to this problem.¬†In a 2013 presentation, Xu Lejiang, president of China Iron &amp; Steel Association (Cisa) identified four ways of resolving excess production capacity: "As to how to resolve the problem of excess production capacity, Central Economic Work Conference raises "4 batches": consuming one batch by creation and expansion of domestic demand, transferring one batch to overseas by speeding up going out process; integrating one batch by optimization of organizational structure; eliminating one batch by rigorizing environmental security energy consumption admittance standards.  "As for steel industry specifically, in resolving steel overcapacity contradiction we must respect the laws of market, rely on market-based instruments and eliminate a number of capacity through market competition. Although at first there will be loss of some resources in this process, it can't be avoided, iron and steel enterprises must work hard. We should also go out actively and transfer industrial chain; actively promote the merger and reorganization of steel industry, improve the variety and quality of products and enhance market competitiveness and viability." This basically means "faster depreciation and slower new investment growth," for China, according to Yao. And that in turn means sectors that are already struggling with excess capacity will feel more pain as they begin to deleverage and consolidate.
It's no secret that a lot of hedge fund managers on Wall Street have no love for Ben Bernanke or his monetary policy.† Journalists, economists, and pundits have mused on the reason why more times than anyone can count. For their part, hedge fund managers usually say that they fear Bernanke's policies will lead to rampant inflation ó a massive problem in the United States in the 1970s when many of them were coming of age. That danger, however, remains to be seen in our economy as, in fact, deflation continues to be a risk. So why do hedge fund managers hate Ben Bernanke? In an interview with Goldman Sachs, Stan Druckenmiller, a known Bernanke detractor gave a candid explanation we never thought we'd hear from a hedge fund manager. He was answering a question about whether or not investing had become more difficult in recent years (via ZeroHedge): It has become harder for me, because the importance of my skills is receding. Part of my advantage, is that my strength is economic forecasting, but that only works in free markets, when markets are smarter than people. Thatís how I started. I watched the stock market, how equities reacted to change in levels of economic activity and I could understand how price signals worked and how to forecast them. Today, all these price signals are compromised and Iím seriously questioning whether I have any competitive advantage left. Ten years ago, if the stock market had done what it has just done now, I could practically guarantee you that growth was going to accelerate. Now, it's a possibility, but I would rather say that the market is rigged and people are chasing these assets, without growth necessarily backing confidence. It's not predicting anything the way it used to and that really makes me reconsider my ability to generate superior returns. If the most important price in the most important economy in the world is being rigged, and everything else is priced off it, what am I supposed to read into other price movements? In short, Stan Druckenmiller is now in a world he doesn't recognize, and it's making him feel useless. Earlier in the interview he acknowledged that he "understood the need for QE1 because the U.S. economy faced a potential meltdown." That implies that the precarious, low-growth situation we're in now isn't a good enough reason (in Druckenmiller's eyes) to continue a policy that makes him and many of his peers feel like aliens in their own home. It is, however, good enough for Japan. Druckenmiller has called Abenomics "appropriate." The problem with that is simple ó it goes against all the "best advice" and the "golden rules" and the maxims traders have passed down about the market for years. You've heard them all: "Adapt or die." "Have an unquenchable thirst for knowledge." "Don't trade on emotions or ideology." Those aren't all direct quotes, but you get the picture. Hedge fund managers aren't supposed to be upset about market factors they can't control, even if those factors are controlled by a person. They're supposed to understand the market that exists and come up with the appropriate strategy. Wall Street is not a 'shoulda, coulda, woulda,' kind of place.
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonIn case you were wondering how central to markets the "tapering" story is right now... The FT just published an article by its Federal Reserve correspondent, Robin Harding ‚Äì with the title "Fed likely to signal tapering move" ‚Äì and U.S. stocks took a sharp turn lower as a result. The lede from the piece: "Ben Bernanke is likely to signal that the US Federal Reserve is close to tapering down its $85bn-a-month in asset purchases when he holds a press conference on Wednesday, but balance that by saying subsequent moves depend on what happens to the economy." Last week, when WSJ's Fed reporter Jon Hilsenrath published a blog post with the opposite suggestion (that the Fed would strike a dovish tone) ‚Äì titled "Analysis: Fed Likely to Push Back on Market Expectations of Rate Increase" ‚Äì stocks spiked. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading right around 1632, up only 0.3% on the day, versus levels around 1644 before Harding's article hit the wires. Bonds are selling off on the news as well. The yield on the 10-year Treasury is currently four basis points higher from Friday's close, at 2.17%.
There's an outstanding new paper out on NBER today by Ajay Agrawal, Christian Catalini and Avi Goldfarb that looks at the simple economics of crowdfunding sites like Kickstarter, where people post project ideas that they hope to get funded from the masses.  While the whole paper is absolutely worth a read, one map at the end gave us a fascinating look at who is getting all that Kickstarter money and for what.¬† Check it out: NBER ¬† Some of the more interesting findings: See the whole paper here &gt;
APIf you thought "Keep Calm and Carry On" garb was annoying, just wait. The British royal family†ó our Kardashians across the pond ó will join retailers in offering baby products to celebrate the spawn of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, the future heir to the throne. And it will net big profits for the UK economy. Though democratically irrelevant since World War II, the royals seem to be priming Britain for a binge in consumer spending. Reuters reports: Analysts estimate the baby fever could boost the†economy†by 240 million pounds ($380 million). Babynomics will join the Queen's Jubilee and the London Games as one-off tourniquets to an otherwise struggling British economy. From Reuters: Bamfield forecast 4.8 million people would splash out 62 million pounds on alcohol to wet the future monarch's head and spend 25 million pounds on food for baby parties. He expected 156 million pounds to be spent on commemorative†china†and other collectibles,toys, books, DVDs and media. Merchandise at palace shops includes Union Jack booties and "Born to Rule" pajamas.
Bank of America¬†routinely denied qualified borrowers a chance to modify their loans to more affordable terms and paid cash bonuses to bank staffers for pushing homeowners into foreclosure, according to affidavits filed last week in a Massachusetts lawsuit. "We were told to lie to customers," said Simone Gordon, who worked in the bank's loss mitigation department until February 2012. "Site leaders regularly told us that the more we delayed the HAMP [loan] modification process, the more fees Bank of America would collect." In sworn testimony, six former employees describe what they saw behind the scenes of an often opaque process that has frustrated homeowners, their attorneys and housing counselors. They describe systematic efforts to undermine the program by routinely denying loan modifications to qualified applicants, withholding reviews of completed applications, steering applicants to costlier "in-house" loans and paying bonuses to employees based on the number of new foreclosures they initiated. The employees' sworn testimony goes a long way to explain why the government's Home Affordable Modification Program, launched in 2008 during the depths of the housing collapse, has fallen so far short of the original targets to save millions of Americans from being tossed from their homes. Bank of America denied the allegations in the affidavits, which were filed in a Massachusetts lawsuit on behalf of dozens of BofA borrowers in 26 states. "We continue to demonstrate our commitment to assisting customers who are at risk of foreclosure and, at best, these attorneys are painting a false picture of the bank's practices and the dedication of our employees," a spokesman said in a statement. "While we will address the declarations in more depth when we file our opposition to plaintiffs' motion next month, suffice it is to say that each of the declarations is rife with factual inaccuracies." Since the housing crisis unfolded in 2007, BofA and other large mortgage servicers have maintained that the widespread delays in processing loan modifications largely resulted from an overwhelming and unprecedented wave of troubled loans. But regulators have repeatedly cited lenders for mistreating borrowers trying to modify their mortgages. In April 2001, five big banks‚Äîincluding Bank of America‚Äîsettled a sweeping complaint with 49 states and several federal regulators about their foreclosure and loan modification practices. The banks agreed to provide $26 billion in relief and adhere to a sweeping series of new rules when modifying loans. Later this week, a monitor assigned to track the bank's practices will issue a report that's expected to cite ongoing violations of those new rules. (Read More:¬†Banks Slow to Clean Up the Mortgage Mess) In their sworn testimony, the former Bank of America employees detail a series of specific company policies designed to provide as little foreclosure relief as possible. "Based on what I observed, Bank of America was trying to prevent as many homeowners as possible from obtaining permanent HAMP loan modifications while leading the public and the government to believe that it was making efforts to comply with HAMP," said Theresa Terrelonge, a Bank of America collector until June 2010. "It was well known among managers and many employees that the overriding goal was to extend as few HAMP loan modifications to homeowners as possible." The reason was fairly simple, according to William Wilson Jr., who worked as a manager in the company's Charlotte, N.C., headquarters, where he supervised 13 mortgage representatives working on with customers seeking HAMP loan modifications. After stonewalling qualified borrowers seeking an affordable HAMP loan, Bank of America representatives could upsell them to a more costly "in-house" loan modification, with rates 3 points higher than the 2 percent rate available under HAMP guidelines, Wilson testified. "The unfortunate truth is that many and possibly most of these people were entitled to a HAMP loan modification, but had little choice but to accept a more expensive and less favorable in-house modification," he said. Courtney Scott was among the Bank of America customers who experienced repeated delays and denials for a government-sponsored modification of the mortgage on her suburban Atlanta home. The retired nurse and grandmother grew increasingly frustrated after bank representatives repeatedly requested she fill out paperwork covering the same information. So she was surprised when the bank approved her six months later for an "in-house" modification. "I got the (HAMP) denial in January, 2010 and then in June they came back with an in-house offer saying 'Congratulations, you've been approved for a modification," said Scott. "But it only lowered my payments by about seven dollars and some cents." Scott turned down the offer and the bank moved to foreclose,an action she is contesting with the help of an attorney. Scott's frustration in complying with the banks request was designed to motivate her to agree to the in-house modification according to the former Bank of America workers. In his affidavit, Wilson said most of the information the bank repeatedly requested from homeowners was already available in multiple document review systems. Some completed applications were denied one at a time, while other borrowers were rejected en masse in a process known as "the blitz," Wilson said. "Approximately twice a month, Bank of America would order that case managers and underwriters 'clean out' the backlog of HAMP applications by denying any file in which the financial documents were more than 60 days old," he said. "These included files in which the homeowner had provided all required financial documents." The procedures described in the affidavits will come as no surprise to attorneys working with borrowers trying to save their homes from foreclosures, according to Max Gardner, a North Carolina bankrupctcy attorney who trains other lawyers on legal strategies to thwart foreclosure "This policy - of dragging it out as long as we possibly can and tell (the homeowner) you didn't qualify or the mod failed or we didn't get this document or you didn't sign it in the right place or we lost this form ‚Äì is consistent with what we've seen," he said. (Read More:¬†As Investors Return to Jumbo Mortgages, Big Banks Sell) Beyond the policy of denying affordable loan applications, Bank of America also encouraged its employees to move loans to foreclosure ‚Äì even when the process could have been prevented, according to said Erika Brown, a former bank customer service representative. "These homeowners were eligible for loan modifications under HAMP, sent back all the required documents and made all their required payments under a trial plan," she said. "Bank of America nevertheless damaged their credit ratings by reporting them delinquent, tacked on additional charges to their loans, increased the amounts it considered as being owed, and often referred these homeowners to foreclosure." The motivation for mortgage servicing companies like Bank of America to move loans to foreclosure is driven by the often perverse economics of the modern mortgage servicing business, according to consumer advocates and attorneys defending against foreclosures. When the tens of millions of loans written during the housing boom of the mid-2000s were sold off to investors, lenders like Bank of America took over the job of collecting checks, making property tax and insurance payments, assessing late fees, and other clerical work. When a borrower defaults on a loan and the bank forecloses, investors who own the loan typically bear the loss on the unpaid principal balance. But the foreclosure process generates a lucrative stream of fees for mortgage servicers‚Äîfor everything from property inspections to legal work required to seize a home. Those added fees provide mortgage servicers like Bank of America with a financial incentive to foreclose ‚Äì and a disincentive to provide a more affordable loan, according to consumer advocates. The company shared those incentives ‚Äì and disincentives - with its workers, based on foreclosure quotas spelled out in monthly meetings with managers, according to Gordon. "A collector who placed ten or more accounts into foreclosure in a given month received a $500 bonus," she said. "Bank of America also gave employees gift cards to retail stores like Target or Bed Bath and Beyond as rewards for placing accounts into foreclosure. Bank of America collectors and other employees who did not meet their quotas by not placing a sufficient number of accounts into foreclosure each month were subject to termination. Several of my colleagues were terminated on that basis." Bank of America agreed to abide by HAMP program guidelines, which require it to modify loans for qualified buyers, when it accepted $25 billion in bailout funds from the government in 2008 following the housing collapse. In return for the financial lifeline, the bank agreed to help millions of struggling homeowners by rewriting mortgages with more affordable terms. As an added incentive, the government agreed to pay a cash bonus for every loan that was modified successfully. But, according to the former employees, while the bank was lying to borrowers, it was also falsifying its performance when reporting to the government the number of loans that had been modified. "Often this involved double counting loans that were in different stages of the modification process," according to Steven Cupples, who supervised a team of Bank of America underwriters until June 2012. "It was well known among Bank of America employees that the numbers Bank of America was reporting to the government and to the public were simply not true."
Callaway Henderson/ Sotheby's International RealtyThe Wall Street Journal reports that a former hedge fund manager is selling his Princeton, New Jersey home for $3.575 million.¬† Daniel Cloud is a founding partner of Firebird Fund Management. ¬†He's currently a lecturer at Princeton University's philosophy department, according to the Journal.¬† Cloud purchased the Buddhism-influenced 7,000 square foot home for $3.7 million in 2007, the report said. ¬†He told the paper he wants to sell it because it's too much for one person. Callaway Henderson of Sotheby's International Realty has the listing.¬† Now let's take a tour of the house.
Ian Bremmer, Nouriel Roubini and Bloomberg's Tom KeeneWe've reached the "New Abnormal," an era marked by slow growth, austerity fatigue,† and partisan gridlock. This is how Ian Bremmer and Nouriel Roubini describe the economy in a new piece†in Institutional Investor. And the New Abnormal is bad news for markets. Bremmer and Roubini warn that ongoing global deleveraging and a dearth of structural reform will mean anemic economic growth and high unemployment for the foreseeable future. But the most volatile aspect of the New Abnormal is the reliance for growth in emerging markets, they write: In short, some emerging economies will fail to fully emerge, particularly given the relative immaturity of political and financial institutions in some of them and the fact that many of their governments have used recent successes as an excuse to postpone the reforms needed to lift them to the next stage of development. The risks that individual emerging markets may pose are compounded because they increasingly depend on commercial relations with one another. Trade among the BRICS has grown by more than 1,000 percent over the past 10 years, and all five member nations are now grappling with economic slowdowns. Of course, some emerging markets are more promising than others. Bremmer and Roubini identify the best "medium-term" EM bets thanks to popular elected leaders with demonstrated commitment to making tough-but-investor-friendly changes. Russia and China are even more complicated, according to Bremmer and Roubini. Russia's lack of new ideas continues to drain the public's patience. And while China has a ruling class capable of restructuring the economy, it remains unclear whether they can successfully do so. Read the whole piece at Institutional Investor&gt;
The commodities analysts at Societe Generale have been among the most bearish on Wall Street. Earlier this year, the declared the "End of The Gold Era" and argued that prices would fall to $1,375 by the end of this year. But after talking to a bunch of clients since that initial report, the analysts have only gotten more bearish. "We believe that the dramatic gold sell-off in April, combined with the prospect of the Fed starting to taper its QE programme before year-end, has resulted in a paradigm shift in many investors‚Äô attitude towards gold," said SocGen's team led by Michael Haigh, Jesper Dannesboe, and Robin Bhar. "This is likely to result in continued large-scale gold ETF selling this year and next," they added. "ETF gold selling has averaged about 100 tonnes per month since the April sell-off. We expect continued ETF selling to exceed higher demand for jewellery/bars and coins. Therefore, we have revised lower our Q4 13 gold forecast to $1,200/oz." Societe Generale

The big story of the week is the Federal Reserve. Everyone wants to know what Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke will indicate about "the taper" ‚Äì the possible reduction of monthly bond purchases it's expected to make under its quantitative easing program later this year. At the moment, the Fed purchases $85 billion worth of bonds in an effort to drive interest rates lower and inject liquidity in the market. Fears that the Fed will pull back on these purchases have caused Treasury bond yields to rise, in turn causing all kinds of ructions in global markets. So why are people so concerned? To help explain, we've employed 11 tapirs ‚Äî which are pig-like jungle creatures ‚Äî to convey the big fears about the taper. flickr/Josh More flickr/skoop102 flickr/Evan Long flickr/Fidel Ramos flickr/moof flickr/dfb flickr/Shannon Kringen flickr/Alexandra MacKenzie flickr/Mark Evans flickr/@Pasvorn flickr/NAPARAZZI (Thanks to Stephen Gandel for providing the original inspiration)
John Mauldin takes down the business of economic forecasting in his new weekly letter. "If you look at the history of the last three recessions in the United States, you will see that the inability of economists and central bankers to understand the state of the economy was so bad that you might be tempted to say they couldn't find their derrieres with both hands," wrote Mauldin. "Economists have yet to correctly call a recession." For those who don't have time to read Mauldin's lengthy letter, there's one chart that sums up his thesis nicely. It comes from Societe Generale, and it shows economists' consensus forecasts for GDP growth.¬† As you can see, it never goes negative during this 35 year span. Business Insider
YouTube/WHFreemanWorthGreg MankiwGreg Mankiw, the former economic adviser to Mitt Romney, is out with a new paper†that aims to "defend the 1 percent" and the status quo of income equality in the United States.† In the 23-page paper, Mankiw attempts to tackle the question of whether more redistribution is needed to spread income gains more equally.† Specifically at the start of his paper, Mankiw addresses stats that have shown the enormous growth in income shares for the top 1 percent (from†7.7 percent in 1973 to 17.4 percent in 2010) and the top 0.01 percent (0.5 percent†in 1973 to 3.3 percent in 2010). These numbers, in no small part, precipitated movements like Occupy Wall Street, Mankiw writes. In one of his key points, Mankiw brushes back on the common suggestion that CEO pay his risen astronomically in comparison to the average worker because boards of directors are too cozy with CEOs: Take the example of pay for chief executive officers. Without doubt, CEOs are paid handsomely, and their pay has†grown over time relative to that of the average worker. Commentators on this phenomenon†sometimes suggest that this high pay reflects the failure of corporate boards of directors to do their job. Rather than representing shareholders, the argument goes, boards are too cozy with the CEOs and pay them more than they are worth to†their organizations.  Yet this argument fails to explain the behavior of closely-held corporations. A private†equity group with a controlling interest in a firm does not face the alleged principal-agent problem between shareholders and†boards, and yet these closely-held firms also pay their CEOs handsomely. Indeed, Kaplan (2012)†reports that over the past three decades, executive pay in closely-held firms has outpaced that in†public companies. Conqvist and Fahlenbrach (2012) find that when public companies go private,†the CEOs tend to get paid more rather than less in both base salaries and bonuses. In light of†these facts, the most natural explanation of high CEO pay is that the value of a good CEO is†extraordinarily high (a conclusion that, incidentally, is consistent with the model of CEO pay†proposed by Gabaix and Landier, 2008). † Mankiw also attempts to tackle the suggestion that the rich should pay more in taxes because they benefit disproportionately from government services and infrastructure. In this section of his paper, Mankiw addresses President Barack Obama's now-infamous "you didn't build that" campaign line from 2012, which suggested that the rich achieved their wealth in large part due to benefits from good and services the government provides.† But Mankiw writes that the "average person" in the top 1 percent pays more than 25 percent of all federal income taxes, and he argues that this is fair compensation. "In the end, the leftís arguments for increased redistribution are valid in principle but dubious in practice," Mankiw writes. "If the current tax system were regressive, or if the incomes of the top 1 †percent were much greater than their economic contributions, or if the rich enjoyed government †services in excess of what they pay in taxes, then the case for increasing the top tax rate would †indeed be strong. But there is no compelling reason to believe that any of these premises holds true."
WikipediaUPPER EAST SIDE ó Billionaire Ron Perelman is so hellbent on exacting revenge against his former in-laws that he has burned through his daughter's $68 million inheritance to mount a slew of unsuccessful lawsuits against them, court papers claim.† The targets of the lawsuits ó the family of Perelman's second wife ó say he has spent at least $20 million on five years of litigation. They have gone to court to find out exactly how much Perelman has splurged and claim he has so far stone-walled them in obtaining an accurate account. The chrome-dome corporate raider was married to his second wife, tabloid gossip columnist Claudia Cohen, from 1985 to 1994, and had a daughter, Samantha, with her. After their divorce, Perelman and Cohen remained close friends and lived a few blocks away from one another on the Upper East Side. When she died of cancer at 56 in 2007, he was appointed the executor of her estate, and Samantha, now 23, was named the main beneficiary. Since 2008, on behalf of Claudia's estate, he has filed at least four lawsuits in New Jersey against Claudia's father, Robert Cohen, and her brother, James Cohen, accusing them of cheating Samantha out of a share of the family's lucrative media business. Claudia's father, Robert Cohen, started Hudson County News Company, which operates a chain of newspaper and magazine retail stores. Perelman, 70, accused Robert of going back on a promise to leave Claudia half his fortune. A lawsuit also claimed that between 2003 and 2008, James transferred assets from his ailing dad to himself, buying 95% of Robert's business for $15 million when it was later valued at $800 million. The cosmetics tycoon said in court papers that he suspected the Cohens were up to no good when James approached him a few weeks after Claudia's death and asked to buy her share of a family estate in Palm Beach for a fraction of its true value. "This was the first sign to me that James was engaged in misconduct, and it ultimately led me to file claims," Perelman said in a 2011 court document. The Cohens counter that Perelman's litigation is driven by revenge ó not out of a desire to protect Samantha. The proof, they say, is in the will Claudia filed three years before her death, where she spoke of the importance of her family. Claudia expressed her "everlasting love" to her parents and described James and his wife as "the best brother and sister-in-law anyone could ever have." The will also instructs Perelman to allow Samantha "liberal visitation time" with her grandparents and uncle. The Cohens claim Perelman's true motivation for filing the lawsuits is to claw back money he lost in an $80 million divorce settlement with Claudia. The five-times-married Revlon exec has shelled out a whopping $138 million in settlements to four ex-wives,†according to†New York†magazine. The Cohens also claim that Perelman pursued the lawsuits to saddle them with staggering legal bills, glean confidential information about Hudson County News, and force James to watch his ailing father, debilitated by Parkinson's Disease, be humiliated during a grueling deposition. So far Perelman hasn't been too successful ó he has lost all four lawsuits and has appealed two. The litigation has come at a hefty cost. Before he died in 2012, Robert Cohen won a $13 million judgment against Claudia's estate in a counter-claim. Perelman's attorneys were also fined $1.9 million for frivolous litigation in one lawsuit. The estate's mounting expenses prompted James Cohen and his two sons in 2011 to obtain a ruling in Manhattan Surrogate's Court requiring Perelman to provide an accounting of the estate's money. Cohen and his sons said they had the right to the records because they're listed as beneficiaries in Claudia's will if Samantha were to die. After getting a judge to sign off on the request, they have since claimed that Perelman has bucked the order, refusing to disclose fully the estate's expenses and transactions. Perelman's alleged obstruction hasn't stopped the Cohens from speculating on the cost of litigation. In one filing, James said that he and his father had spent $12 million on legal fees battling just one lawsuit. He estimated that, under Perelman's stewardship, the estate had spent at least $20 million on an army of pricey lawyers, but believes the amount is likely much higher.† "Today, with the additional fees that the estate has incurred on unsuccessful appeals, the estate has surely spent in excess of $20 million on the New Jersey proceedings, and aggregate expenses in excess of $30 million are very much in the realm of possibility," the filing says. A filing by James' sons, Justin and Robert II, said that the $68.8 million estate has paid $30 million in taxes and that the Perelman's litigation might have eaten up the remaining money. "In his efforts to avoid discovery, [Perelman] has revealed that substantial grounds exist to believe that he has committed major improprieties, and that, far from acting as a fiduciary of the estate and its principal beneficiary, he has used the estate as his personal piggy-bank to finance a personal litigation vendetta against his former in-laws," the filing said. A representative for the Cohens did not respond to a request for comment. However, filings over the past year show that the Cohens have continued to subpoena Perelman for records. The Revlon boss was also expected to be deposed last month by the Cohens' lawyers. Christine Taylor, a spokeswoman for Ron Perelman, said in a statement that the Cohens' allegations were false. "The only legal fees paid were to protect the assets of the estate against the claims made by Jimmy Cohen," she said.
From Goldman Sachs Stan Druckenmiller is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Duquesne Family Office. He founded Duquesne Capital Management in 1981, which he ran until he closed the firm in 2010. Previously, he was a Managing Director at Soros Fund Management, where he served as Lead Portfolio Manager of the Quantum Fund and Chief Investment Officer of Soros Interview with Stan Druckenmiller Hugo Scott-Gall: What are the risks of investing in China that are not well understood in your view? Stan Druckenmiller: The growth in credit at a time when GDP growth is slowing is a problem for China. And I think this is the 2009-11 stimulus coming back to bite. I understand that it had to be done to fund entrepreneurs and the private sector, but itís easier said than done if youíre channelling funds through local government investment vehicles. Iím a believer in markets. A few men sitting around a table and deciding how to allocate capital goes against everything Iíve ever believed. Not only are they not great at capital allocation, such an exercise also needs to deal with a lack of property rights and corruption. In essence, the frantic stimulus China put together at the end of 2008 sowed the seeds of slower growth in the future by crowding out more productive investments. And now, the systemís building enough leverage and misallocation of resources to warrant risks of a financial crisis, but the timing of that is still uncertain in my mind. What weíve seen in China since 2009 is similar to what happened in the US in 2005, in terms of credit growth outpacing economic growth. I think ageing demographics is a bigger issue in China than people think. And the problems it creates should be become evident as early as 2016. You also need to keep in mind that for China to grow and evolve further, it will need to compete with a more innovative Korea and now a more competitive Japan. I donít think China can do that with where its exchange rate is today. I think productivity is a key concern too. And I think that could be one of the reasons why the US has been so supportive of Abenomics. People mention lack of infrastructure as a constraint. But when I go over there, it looks like they have a lot of infrastructure. It seems ahead of the population, not behind. I see expensive apartments in empty cities that 300 mn rural Chinese are expected to migrate to.† That looks very unbalanced to me. Nobodyís ever had investment to GDP at 47%. Japan and Korea peaked at 36%-38%, so as a result I think capacity is way ahead of demand in some areas in China. Hugo Scott-Gall: If China slows its fixed asset investment, will that have a knock on effect for its commodities demand and thus commodity prices? Stan Druckenmiller: When I started in 1976, I was taught by my mentor that when cash flow rises equities go up. But commodities are driven by the cost of extraction 90% of the time, and over the long run, technology makes extraction cheaper, pushing the cost curve down and with it commodity prices. But that hasnít always worked, if Iíd followed that advice over the past few decades, Iíd be in trouble. About five years ago, I bought into the peak oil thesis. But then, along comes shale oil and shale technology, reminding me of what my old mentor said 35 years ago. Now Iíve come to think that the oil price is not as vulnerable to China slowing down as it is to ongoing shale supply growth. I regard the ramp up in investment by China as a 10-year aberration, making the last two years more normal and more representative than the previous decade. I do think China is serious about rebalancing, which means infrastructure investment is going to slow. And obviously, there's been a huge ramp-up in supply around the world in response to the 2009-11 stimulus, which in my view is a massive misread by the suppliers of these commodities. So thatís not good for commodity prices. And then you have innovation. Can technology progress in iron ore and copper, the way it has with shale energy? My guess is it will. If you look at food, thereís now technology that allows seeds to be drought-proof and disease proof. Yes, there is a demand-supply argument for food prices rising, but the impact of technology on food supply is greater than you think. On the other hand, we are using up more and more good arable land to build cities in China and there is a water problem in China too. Hugo Scott-Gall: Do you think we underestimate the role of innovation in resolving these global constraints? Stan Druckenmiller: Even with all the progress we have made in technology in the recent past, I think we are only scratching the surface in terms of innovation. We havenít seen half of the practical applications of big new technologies yet. And the cost of these technologies will come down too, whether itís robotics or driverless cars. That has to provide a productivity boost. But there is a downside to technology-driven productivity surges too. There is improved efficiency, but at the cost of fewer jobs. I think the impact of technology on manufacturing jobs is easy to overlook because of the huge surge in services jobs. But weíre now at a point where the impact of technology is hitting the services sectors too. And not everyone understands this. I recently brought up the possibility of driverless auto technology resulting in zero jobs for truck drivers within the next 20 years and there were gasps of disbelief from the audience of investors. When I mentioned it to a high-tech company CEO from Silicon Valley a few days later, his response was exactly the opposite. The point is that the problem with a tech-driven productivity surge is that the benefits of that are going to accrue to a smaller, narrower group. Already, computer engineers have benefitted from computing and the internet a lot more than the broader population. You could draw similar conclusions on the impact of technology and automation on investing. I believe that good investors are successful not† because of their IQ, but because they have an investing discipline. But, what is more disciplined than a machine? A well-researched machine can make many average investors redundant, leaving behind only the really good human investors with exceptional intuition and skill. And what happens when machines really take over investing? Do the markets get really efficient? Or will there be competing systems trying to outdo each other? All of this is depressing because there wonít much left to do for humans once machines start doing more and more. If machines do everything well, including allocating capital and resources efficiently, can that be deflationary, can that eliminate poverty? I donít know. Itís hard to be very optimistic if you look at how humans have behaved historically. All in all, I donít think robots and greater automation can bring about a utopian world as I imagined it would as a kid 50 years ago. Hugo Scott-Gall: If you combine the prospect of fewer jobs with an ageing population, it doesnít look very good for many economies... Stan Druckenmiller: Apart from India, most of the other major economies have worsening demographics to worry about. Itís a big problem for the US too, especially given that relative to many other economies, including Japan, its fiscal gap is much wider. All in all, I donít think robots and greater automation can bring about a utopian world as I imagined it would as a kid 50 years ago. You can look at the US debt stock in a few different ways. The official estimate of the total debt may be US$11 tn, but if you include what the Fed has bought (which you should), then the number if closer to US$16 tn. But a better measure of US debt would include some of the off balance sheet items. Laurence Kotlikoff, who is one of the top economists in his field of generational accounting, estimates the present value of US debt including what has been promised to senior citizens, adjusted for the projected tax revenues and the fiscal gap, to be about US$211 tn. Thatís staggering. The US needs to resolve its debt problem politically, otherwise it is headed towards default. I believe the estimates suggest that the US needs to raise all taxes by about 64% in order to be able to support its older population. Thatís raising payroll, capital, dividends and income taxes by 64%. The other option is to cut all government spending by 40%. Neither one is a viable option and a combination is not easy either. In 20 years, those numbers will become even tougher. The US will need to raise taxes by 75% or cut spending by 46%. There has been vigourous debate on the veracity of Rogoff and Reinhartís research on the consequences of countries exceeding 90% debt-to-GDP. But it doesnít take away from the fact that historically, such levels of indebtedness has resulted in extreme implications.† Countries tend to go into a full-blown monetisation or a default or inflation on average 23 years after they cross the 90% threshold according to their research. So these debt levels are less relevant for you and me today, but will be extremely crucial for our children. If we continue to borrow and spend like we do now, this can become a serious problem in 15 years. If machines do everything well, including allocating capital and resources efficiently, can that be deflationary, can that eliminate poverty? I donít† know. I understood the need for QE1 because the US economy faced a potential meltdown then. But further easing brings problems of its own, that only come to light in hindsight. All that easing and prolonged negative real interest rates have gone beyond resolving the core issues the economy faced and has led to re-leveraging. Iím not worried about inflation as much as misallocation of investment. Another consequence of todayís monetary policy is that the US government is not getting any price signals. In any other society, at some point in the next 15-20 years, the markets will give a price signal and the politicians will need to respond. But currently, there is no such impetus for politicians to act. What adds to the problem is that young Americans don't vote. Old people not only vote, but also have incredibly powerful lobbying groups behind them. Entitlements in 1960 were 28% of government outlays, today it is 67%. And the baby boomers have only now begun to retire. Another debate is that this is a huge reason to accelerate immigration, but current policy is moving in the opposite direction. But even with immigration, the US needs to fix this pay-as-you-go system or the consequences could be quite drastic. Hugo Scott-Gall: Do you think investing is becoming harder now with more government intervention and regulation interfering with market price signals? Stan Druckenmiller: It has become harder for me, because the importance of my skills is receding. Part of my advantage, is that my strength is economic forecasting, but that only works in free markets, when markets are smarter than people. Thatís how I started. I watched the stock market, how equities reacted to change in levels of economic activity and I could understand how price signals worked and how to forecast them. Today, all these price signals are compromised and Iím seriously questioning whether I have any competitive advantage left. Ten years ago, if the stock market had done what it has just done now, I could practically guarantee you that growth was going to accelerate. Now, it's a possibility, but I would rather say that the market is rigged and people are chasing these assets, without growth necessarily backing confidence. It's not predicting anything the way it used to and that really makes me reconsider my ability to generate superior returns. If the most important price in the most important economy in the world is being rigged, and everything else is priced off it, what am I supposed to read into other price movements?
The pie chart is easily the worst way to convey information ever developed in the history of data visualization.¬† Sure, there are other more cumbersome ways to articulate data. But none have the credibility nor the widespread use that the pie chart has.¬† Here, I'll explain exactly what's wrong with the pie chart and exactly why you need to stop using them as soon as possible.¬† First let's talk about why we use charts in the first place.¬† I'll show you how pie charts fail most of these criteria for a good chart.¬† The "point" of a pie chart is to show the relationship of parts out of a whole.¬† Let's see how bad they are at the one thing they're ostensibly designed to do.¬† Take a look at these three pie charts. Let's say that they represent the polling from a local election with five candidates at three different points A, B, an C during an election: Public Domain/ Wikipedia ¬† So, what can we learn from this information? Since these are the shares of the votes that each candidate will get, it should be easy for the reader to figure out what, exactly is going on in this race.¬† But it really isn't. In the first race, is candidate 5 doing better than candidate 3? Who did better between time A and time B, candidate 2 or candidate 4? Who has the most momentum in the race? If the point of a chart is to make information more easily understandable, how is this chart working for you? Indeed, were I to just give you a table of the polling values, wouldn't that be much easier to understand the information at first glance than these pie charts? But now, let's look at that exact same information ‚Äî parts of a whole ‚Äî articulated on a bar chart: Public Domain/ Wikipedia Look at how much clearer that is.¬† We can see exactly what is going on with each candidate at every point in the race at first glance.¬† This bar chart is a much more clear indicator of parts of the whole than a pie chart, even when that's technically the point of the pie chart.¬† Now let's look at another shortcoming of a pie chart, one that has to do with the way people don't really understand circles Here's a pie chart of the party breakdown of the European parliament: Walter Hickey / BI So our main question is, can we really compare the slices to figure out the distinctions in size between¬†each and every¬†¬†pie slice? If we're just trying to learn that, yeah, EPP is bigger than S&amp;D, then what's the point of the chart? I could have told you that with two number.¬† No, the chart is only useful if we're able to compare each and every element within it.¬† Walter Hickey / BIAt right are the individual slices taken out of context for the purpose of comparison. Look at them, and see if you can figure out an ordering from largest to smallest.¬† The reality is, humans aren't very good at comparing slices of a circle when it comes to size. It's the reason you probably found trigonometry and radians a lot more difficult than you found basic rectangle geometry. That's not a bad thing, but it is something to keep in mind when trying to articulate information in the most comprehensive and understandable way possible.¬† Here's that very same graph in bar chart form: Walter Hickey / BI Notice how you can compare each and every party to each and every other party.¬† You're just comparing the length of rectangles in order to understand what's going on.¬† If you really wanted to, you could even change the left axis to percents to figure out the different allocations within parliament. However, now you're able to see how many seats each party holds, information that wasn't present on the initial pie chart.¬† Now, let's look at how easily pie charts can be manipulated.¬† Here's that same data as above, only on a 3D Pie Chart: Walter Hickey / BI People do this all the time, and that's because an angled 3D pie chart is an excellent way to lie to you.¬† Looking at this chart, S&amp;D ‚Äî the red party ‚Äî appears to be roughly even with EPP, the teal party. But the reality is, that's because I've distorted you perspective to make it seem as if red is in fact bigger.¬† This is so easy to do, and it's honestly a shame that Excel makes it possible to begin with.¬† Walter Hickey / BIAt left you'll see another example of the shortcomings of the pie chart.¬† The fact is, 10% of the men reading this will have no idea what we're talking about.¬† The most elegant charts don't require data labeling. You shouldn't need to have any extraneous numbers on your data in order to make your point. If you do, you are using the wrong chart.¬† Oftentimes, the pie chart is the wrong chart So, let's review: Business Insider, data from City of DetroitBefore we look at a final critique of pie charts, let's acknowledge that there is something they're actually good at.¬† The one single thing pie charts are good at is when you're comparing 2-3 different data points with very different amounts of information.¬† That's it.¬† And when you get down to it, if that's the only they're good for, their only real use is to let people know what a fraction looks like.¬† The only point of the pie chart to the right is to inform people what 32 out of 100 looks like.¬† Last week I made the comment that pie charts are the Nickelback of data visualization. That comment got a lot of circulation.¬† But after thinking about it, there's a much more apt metaphor.¬† Pie charts are the Aquaman of data visualization.¬† Aquaman is really only good at one thing. Even so, other DC superheroes can often do Aquaman's job better than Aquaman. Superman can hold his breath underwater, Batman has his submarine. It's come to the point where if there's a sinking oil tanker, who do you really want to call? Aquaman? Or Superman? You sort of always wonder why Aquaman was invited to the meeting in the first place.¬† And when that one real chance for Aquaman or the pie chart comes around ‚Äî maybe you need to talk to a fish or explain what 32% looks like on a circle ‚Äî you're sort of left to wonder why you actually bothered having it around in the first place. In short, stop using pie charts. They're not useful, they're too easy to screw up, and they don't accomplish the one thing you actually use charts for ‚Äî to make information visually informative. Pie charts are Aquaman.¬† So what should you do instead? As Edward Tufte ‚Äî a data scientist who has written extensively on the failure of the pie chart ‚Äî tweeted: Pie chart users deserve same suspicion+skepticism as those who mix up its/it's, there/their.To compare,use little table, sentence, not pies.
YouTubePeople have been buzzing about Martin Scorsese's new movie, "The Wolf of Wall Street," for over a year now, and finally we get a peek at what it's going to look like. The trailer is out! And it looks as wild as we had hoped. How could it not? The true story of the Wolf of Wall Street is completely out of control. Click here for scenes from the film&gt; The story is the memoir of Jordan Belfort, a Long Island kid who rose to become a millionaire penny stock scammer and boiler-room boss. Back in the 1990s, Belfort ran Stratton-Oakmont, a Long Island-based pump and dump that found itself on top of the Wall Street world. Think: Drugs, hookers, parties with performing midgets. And then it all came crashing down. Belfort went to jail for 20 months and lost everything. You can check out the trailer below:  We've also already taken a look at "The Wolf of Wall Street" script, written by Terence Winter, and luckily a bunch of the most awesome scenes seem to have stayed in the movie. We've put them together for you here. [WARNING: Spoilers follow.]
Google FinanceU.S. stocks are staging a nice rally. The Dow, the S&amp;P 500, and the Nasdaq are all up 1%. This comes in the wake of better-than-expected Empire State manufacturing and NAHB homebuilder confidence reports. On Tuesday, the Federal Reserve will begin its two-day monetary policy meeting. Most market-watchers agree that this is the most important scheduled event of the week. While no one is expecting any major near-term change in policy, everyone will be focused on any hints that may signal when the Fed would consider tightening policy.
Getty Images/Joe ReadleThe NAHB housing market index for June jumped to 52. This is the highest level since April 2006. This beat expectations for a rise to 45, from 44 in May. The eight point increase from May to June is the biggest one month gain since August and September of 2002. A reading over 50 shows that more builders think sales conditions are good rather than poor. What's more? All three sub-indices gained in June. The index gauging current sales conditions climbed eight points to 56. The index measuring future sales expectations climbed from 52 in May to¬† 61 in June ‚Äî the highest level since March 2006. Finally, the index of prospective buyers traffic increased seven points to 40. Investors track this index because it is a leading indicator for housing starts. "Today‚Äôs report is consistent with our forecast for a 29 percent increase in total housing starts this year, which would mark the first time since 2007 that starts have topped the 1 million mark," NAHB Chief Economist David Crowe said in a press release. In recent months it was reported that affordable mortgage rates were helping buyers. But mortgage rates have been rising and while these haven't impacted purchase applications, they have weighed on refinance applications. Today's report shows that homebuilders aren't fazed by the rise in mortgage rates. The NAHB housing market index is a sentiment index in which respondents rate not just the housing market but also the economy in general. The index draws on builder perceptions of current single-family home sales and sales expectations for the next six months. It also includes builders' expectations of traffic of prospective buyers.
They learned their lesson and bond yields generally exceeded GDP growth during the 1980s and early 1990s. That was the era of the "Bond Vigilantes," a term I coined in 1983. They contributed to breaking the back of inflation. As a result, by the late 1990s, they became less vigilant. While theyíve been repressed in the US by the Fed since late 2008, they were back in the saddle again during 2010 and 2011 in the peripheral countries of Europe. But then, ECB President Mario Draghi repressed them over there when he said on July 26, 2012 that heíll do whatever it takes to defend the euro. If the Fed stops repressing the Bond Vigilantes over here by phasing out QE, then the 10-year Treasury yield should rise to the growth rate of GDP, which was 3.4% y/y during Q1. That would probably be a big shock to the economy. †Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Benís Choices. (1) Door #1, #2, or #3. (2) Press conference pressure. (3) Will Bernanke discipline the dissenters or cave? (4) Good excuse to taper QE: Federal deficit is shrinking. (5) Hail Mary pass. (6) Old normal bond yields would be a shock for sure. (7) Big outflow from bond funds last week. (8) EM stocks and bonds are submerging. (9) QE chatter is depressing inflationary expectations and boosting TIPS yield. (10) Retail sales a plus for Q2ís GDP, while discrediting recession forecast. (11) Lowering S&amp;P 500 Retailing to market weight. (More for subscribers.)
MGM / IMDBNEW DELHI, India ó Across global markets, gold has lost its glimmer. Investors are fleeing the yellow metal, whose price has slumped more than 10 percent over the past three months. But Indians are so gold crazy they're sacrificing their currency and their countryís economy in the bargain. By buying up billions of dollars worth of foreign gold, they are sending Indian cash overseas, disrupting the balance money entering and leaving the country, and thus driving down the value of the rupee. That in turn makes key imports *more costly*, and makes it harder for business to pay international loans. "If for one year there are no gold imports, it will change the current account deficit story of the country,"†said Finance Minister P. Chidambaram†on Thursday. ìIndians think they are buying gold in rupees. Actually they are buying gold in dollars.î India is the world's biggest gold importer, soaking up a third of the world's supply every year. Gold is the country's biggest foreign purchase after oil. The impact? The current account deficit (the net outflow of money) is†5.4 percent of GDP, about double what economists recommend. "I once again appeal to everyone to resist the temptation to buy gold,î Chidambaram said. ìThis will show positive impact on every aspect of the Indian economy.î While India's current account deficit is too high, the real concern is whether enough money is flowing into the country to make up the difference, Bibek Debroy, an economist affiliated with the New Delhi-based Center for Policy Research, told GlobalPost. And there things get extra tricky. ìThe worry for the government really is that whatever capital inflows we have are in the nature of portfolio investmentsî ó such as stock purchases ó ìwhich tend to come and go,î Debroy said. In contrast, direct investment in factories and in other ventures tend to carry long-term benefits, and the capital remains regardless of short term market fluctuations. ìSo we should really be asking, ëWhy aren't investments coming in?í ó rather than picking on people who are buying gold.î According to Chidambaram, India's gold imports fell from an average of $135 million in the first half of May to $36 million in the second half of the month, but he neglected to mention the reason: This year the Akshaya Tritiya festival, the second-biggest holiday for buying gold, fell on May 13. The post-holiday lull gave some relief to the central bank, which on Tuesday was†forced to intervene†in currency markets to bring the rupee back from its lowest level against the dollar in history (58.98 rupees to the greenback). But the rupee†resumed its fall†after the finance minister's speech Thursday. And the dip in gold demand is likely only to be temporary ó because for Indians gold is more than an investment. Gold is synonymous with savings and security for many of Indiaís 1.24 billion people, for a variety of reasons. Only about 36,000 of India's 650,000 villages have a bank branch. And minimum balances and other requirements mean that house maids, security guards and construction workers hold much of their assets in gold coins and jewelry as a hedge against bad times, when they can be sold or used as a collateral with the local moneylender. Moreover, the metal's cultural importance makes it essential for weddings and various other ceremonies. Even bankers and lawyers still think of buying gold jewelry as a foolproof financial strategy. And with both the capital markets and real estate losing luster lately, India's wealthy have emerged as a new class of gold buyers. ìTraditionally, there's always been a demand for gold. But what has added to that in the last four years or so is a different kind of demand. That is a demand for gold that I would call investment,î said Debroy. ìThere is quite a bit of investment in gold now that is actually in bullion.î Consider this: Even though†gold prices have plunged†from more than $1800 in November to around $1400 an ounce last month, the†World Gold Council has forecast†that India's gold imports for April-June would amount to almost half the total imported in 2012. Bad investment? Probably. Experts say†a rise in gold prices†is unlikely without a big slump in the US stock market or in the value of the dollar, neither of which seems likely. And even long term, gold prices tend to skyrocket and plunge because there's†paltry ìrealî business demandfor the yellow metal, with investors who buy gold and sit on it as an investment accounting for more than half of the volume purchased every year. For the Indian economy, however, the gold obsession is worse than a poor investment. Unlike buying stocks or bonds, parking money in gold slows, rather than stimulates, economic growth by sucking cash out of the system. (In contrast, even oil imports, while bad for the trade deficit, literally fuel industry). Meanwhile, a growing†trade deficit forces†the country to devalue its currency ñ for India, about 10 percent a year for the past two decades. Those plunging values scare people out of rupees, and foreign funds out of India. That, in turn, means less investment and slower growth, and thus a further weakening rupee. In other words: A vicious cycle. †
Flickr / boviateThe headline number in the latest Empire State Manufacturing Survey was up big†ó +7.84 versus expectations for 0.0. But every other component stunk, according to the report: Worst of all, labor market conditions deteriorated. The index for number of employees dropped to zero, and the average workweek index fell 10 points to -11.3.  Plus, the index for expected number of employees retreated to 1.6, and the future average workweek index declined eleven points to -9.7. "Overall, the weaker breakdown of the Empire manufacturing suggests that manufacturer sentiment remained on the back foot headline into June, not boding well for a rebound in the ISM manufacturingís fall into sub-50 territory," said TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg. There are basically no subindicators showing trending improvements. Here are all the ones that have been going down over the past few months: New York Fed Meanwhile,†the six-month outlook declined again ó it's been happening for the past few months. This suggests that optimism about future conditions was weakening further.

Daniel Goodman/Business InsiderThe Empire State Manufacturing Survey rose 7.84 in June. Consensus was for no gain. The May figure was -1.43. The rest of the print was super ugly, especially the labor index, which was flat. Here's the full release: The June 2013¬†Empire State Manufacturing Survey¬†indicates that conditions for New York manufacturers improved modestly. The general business conditions index‚Äîthe most comprehensive of the survey's measures‚Äîrose nine points to 7.8. Nevertheless, most other indicators in the survey fell. The new orders index slipped six points to -6.7, the shipments index fell twelve points to -11.8, and the unfilled orders index fell eight points to -14.5. The prices paid index held steady at 21.0, while the prices received index rose seven points to 11.3. Labor market conditions worsened, with the index for number of employees dropping to zero and the average workweek index retreating ten points to -11.3. Continuing the trend seen in the past few months, indexes for the six-month outlook declined, suggesting that optimism about future conditions was weakening further.In a series of supplementary survey questions, manufacturers were asked to look back and assess the short-term and medium-term effects of Superstorm Sandy on their business. As in last November‚Äôs survey (conducted immediately after the storm), the vast majority of upstate firms said that they were essentially unaffected by the storm. However, firms in New York City, Long Island, and the Lower Hudson Valley reported that it took an average of more than two weeks after the storm for business to get back to normal, and more than a third of these firms said that the storm had adversely affected their overall business revenue during the seven months since Sandy. General Business Conditions Index Recovers Some Ground After dipping into negative territory last month, the general business conditions index for June recovered some ground, rising nine points to 7.8‚Äîa sign that conditions had improved modestly. Roughly 29 percent reported that conditions had gotten better over the month, while 22 percent reported that conditions had worsened. However, while the general business conditions index was positive and higher than last month, many of the survey‚Äôs other indicators were negative and noticeably weaker. The new orders index fell six points to -6.7, and the shipments index fell twelve points to -11.8. The unfilled orders index dropped eight points to -14.5, and the delivery time index declined three points to -6.5. The inventories index fell three points to -11.3, extending the decline in inventories to a fourth consecutive month.
YouTube screencapMiss Utah Marissa Powell, who looked stunning in a white strapless evening gown at the Miss USA pageant, bombed her final onstage question last night at the Planet Hollywood Casino &amp; Resort in Las Vegas.¬† "Real Housewives of Atlanta" star/Miss USA judge NeNe Leakes asked Powell, who was named the most photogenic at the pageant, to answer the following question:¬† "A recent report shows that in 40% of American families with children, women are the primary earners, yet they continue to earn less than men. ¬†What does this say about society?" This is a great question, and something you'd expect a Miss USA candidate to be well-prepared for.¬† It's part of a much larger discussion that has been going on for a long time now and it's a great opportunity for a Miss USA contestant to totally nail it.¬†¬† Here's Miss Utah's incoherent response, though:¬† "I think that we can relate this back to education and how we are continuing to try to strive to...figure out how to create jobs right now, that is the greatest problem. I think especially the men are, um, seen as the leaders of this so we need to try to figure out how to create education better so we can solve this problem.¬† You can really see the heartbreak and disappointment in Powell's eyes in the video posted below. ¬†She clearly knew she messed it up. Even Host Giuliana Rancic said a sympathetic "Thank you, sweetheart" when Powell finished her answer. Keep in mind, though, that these ladies generally spend over a year preparing for the pageant. ¬†It's not easy.¬† What's more they have spent an exhausting two weeks in Vegas packed with red carpet events, photo shoots, restaurant and club outings, charity work and the preliminary competition (swim wear, evening gown and interviews) prior to the live competition. ¬† Once they've made it into the top ten, all of their hard work and dreams come down to the final question, which is aired on live television to an audience of millions.¬† Watch the video below:¬† 
Wall Street veteran Doug Kass is signing off from Twitter. At least for a while, he says. "I've been on twitter for a while now," tweeted Kass. "I try to provide thoughtful tweets that may help traders/investors. But too many haters." Kass earned legendary status by calling the March 2009 "generational" bottom in the stock market.† In 2011, he predicted that he stock market would be flat, which is more or less exactly what happened. In recent years, Twitter has exploded as a source of trading ideas and investing discourse.† Select tweets, even those coming from Kass, have been known to move markets. Hopefully, Kass will decide to come back soon. Here are his most recent tweets. @DougKass
REUTERS/BeawihartaStudent protesters react as police spray foam to extinguish burning tires during a demonstration against the government's plans to raise fuel price, outside the parliament in Jakarta June 17, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Japan&rsquo;s government debt is so excessive that, one way or another, many think it will eventually default. But there&rsquo;s a way Japan can begin sloughing off its debt and growing its economy: by privatizing government assets. In fact, the nature of its debt means that it can&rsquo;t fix its debt problem without doing that, says Michael Pettis, a finance professor at Peking University&rsquo;s Guanghua School of Management. Pettis likens it to the US railroad boom in late the 1800s. &ldquo;Most of it was very, very wasteful and the companies eventually went bankrupt. The railroads shifted to new owners who bought at a significant discount. That meant they could lower prices immediately,&rdquo; he tells Quartz. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s painful, but it&rsquo;s economically very efficient.&rdquo; That never happened in Japan. In fact, this is why Japan&rsquo;s GDP appears not to have grown in so long, says Pettis&mdash;wasteful government spending in the 1980s meant GDP &ldquo;was significantly overstated.&rdquo; &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s say you build two bridges. One bridge is useful, one&rsquo;s not. Both show up immediately in same way in terms of GDP impact,&rdquo; says Pettis. &ldquo;What happens over time is that second bridge doesn&rsquo;t contribute [to the economy], and that debt has to be paid off. So it&rsquo;s written down over long period of time.&rdquo;  That means that what looks like the collapse of Japan&rsquo;s GDP since 1990 probably hasn&rsquo;t been as bad as it seems. Meanwhile, much of the rest of Japan&rsquo;s excessive debt comes from the government&rsquo;s absorption of private-sector debt throughout the 1990s. Here&rsquo;s the historical trend of public and private debt:  There&rsquo;s some good news and some bad news in all this. First, the good. The government has a lot of inefficiently run assets it can &ldquo;reflate&rdquo;&mdash;i.e. sell to more efficient private enterprises that can wring more value out of those assets&mdash;as Naomi Fink, Japan Strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ argues. For instance, it owns chunks of Japan Post, which it also protects via regulation, and nearly half of Japan Tobacco. Then there are highways and other infrastructure that could be privatized, as well, the way Japan Rail once was. The government also owns unusually high levels of land and other hard assets (pdf, p.24), according to an IMF report. Here&rsquo;s how Japan stacks up compared with other advanced economies:  In addition to generating proceeds from the sale that could go toward paying down its debts, the government boosts its corporate tax base, as well. True, it sacrifices whatever profits might come from those assets. But if privatizing allows those wasteful assets to start generating real growth, rising productivity would boost the economy in a sustainable way. The bad news&mdash;at least part of it&mdash;is that privatizing is politically tricky, and will probably involve mass layoffs. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe should have championed privatization along with his other proposed structural reforms. And that&rsquo;s the rest of the bad news: he didn&rsquo;t. But with Abenomics teetering, finding a way to get privatization onto the table might soon be a necessity. Japan&rsquo;s government debt is so excessive that, one way or another, many think it will eventually default. But there&rsquo;s a way Japan can begin sloughing off its debt and growing its economy: by privatizing government assets. In fact, the nature of its debt means that it can&rsquo;t fix its debt problem without doing that, says Michael Pettis, a finance professor at Peking University&rsquo;s Guanghua School of Management. Pettis likens it to the US railroad boom in late the 1800s. &ldquo;Most of it was very, very wasteful and the companies eventually went bankrupt. The railroads shifted to new owners who bought at a significant discount. That meant they could lower prices immediately,&rdquo; he tells Quartz. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s painful, but it&rsquo;s economically very efficient.&rdquo; That never happened in Japan. In fact, this is why Japan&rsquo;s GDP appears not to have grown in so long, says Pettis&mdash;wasteful government spending in the 1980s meant GDP &ldquo;was significantly overstated.&rdquo; &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s say you build two bridges. One bridge is useful, one&rsquo;s not. Both show up immediately in same way in terms of GDP impact,&rdquo; says Pettis. &ldquo;What happens over time is that second bridge doesn&rsquo;t contribute [to the economy], and that debt has to be paid off. So it&rsquo;s written down over long period of time.&rdquo;  That means that what looks like the collapse of Japan&rsquo;s GDP since 1990 probably hasn&rsquo;t been as bad as it seems. Meanwhile, much of the rest of Japan&rsquo;s excessive debt comes from the government&rsquo;s absorption of private-sector debt throughout the 1990s. Here&rsquo;s the historical trend of public and private debt:  There&rsquo;s some good news and some bad news in all this. First, the good. The government has a lot of inefficiently run assets it can &ldquo;reflate&rdquo;&mdash;i.e. sell to more efficient private enterprises that can wring more value out of those assets&mdash;as Naomi Fink, Japan Strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ argues. For instance, it owns chunks of Japan Post, which it also protects via regulation, and nearly half of Japan Tobacco. Then there are highways and other infrastructure that could be privatized, as well, the way Japan Rail once was. The government also owns unusually high levels of land and other hard assets (pdf, p.24), according to an IMF report. Here&rsquo;s how Japan stacks up compared with other advanced economies:  In addition to generating proceeds from the sale that could go toward paying down its debts, the government boosts its corporate tax base, as well. True, it sacrifices whatever profits might come from those assets. But if privatizing allows those wasteful assets to start generating real growth, rising productivity would boost the economy in a sustainable way. The bad news&mdash;at least part of it&mdash;is that privatizing is politically tricky, and will probably involve mass layoffs. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe should have championed privatization along with his other proposed structural reforms. And that&rsquo;s the rest of the bad news: he didn&rsquo;t. But with Abenomics teetering, finding a way to get privatization onto the table might soon be a necessity.
Steve Kovach/Business InsiderSUWON, South Korea (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co plans to sell a variation of its flagship Galaxy S4 smartphone that will transmit data at nearly twice the normal speed, the head of its mobile business said on Monday. J.K. Shin, also co-chief executive of the world's biggest technology firm by revenue, said the phone would be sold in South Korea as early as this month. Samsung was in talks with several overseas carriers to take the phone, Shin told Reuters in an interview at Samsung's headquarters in Suwon, just south of Seoul. He declined to name the carriers. "We'll be the first with the commercial launch of the advanced 4G version of the smartphone," Shin said. The new S4 will use LTE-Advanced 4G technology, an upgrade from conventional 4G called LTE, or long term evolution. LTE-Advanced offers data transmission at up to twice the normal 4G speed. The phones will be powered by Qualcomm chips. A movie download that takes 3 minutes with conventional 4G would take slightly more than 1 minute, Samsung said. Samsung's shares have lost almost $20 billion since June 7 after analysts cut forecasts for Galaxy S4 sales by as much as 30 percent on industry data that showed the high-end smartphone market was getting saturated. The same problem is hitting sales of the iPhone 5, made by Samsung rival Apple Inc. Samsung's market capitalization is still a hefty $195 billion. Its shares closed down 0.2 percent on Monday. Shin showed little concern about sales prospects for the S4, which hit stores in late April. The mobile devices division is the company's biggest profit generator. "S4 sales remain strong. It's selling far stronger than the (Galaxy) S III ... and the new LTE-Advanced (4G) phone will be another addition to our high-end segment offerings that ensure healthy profit margins," Shin said. Shin declined to provide forecasts for S4 sales. He said the new S4 would be slightly more expensive than the current one. The South Korean firm hopes the addition of hardware offerings such as faster data transmission, along with its widely anticipated move to introduce models with unbreakable or flexible displays, will help it protect margin growth. "As operators seek to provide more data-centric mobile services, I think this will become mainstream 4G technology globally in the coming years," Shin said. Shin also said sales of Samsung's tablet products in the U.S. market jumped 3.3 times since it installed brand shops within Best Buy's stores in April, and is now considering expanding the format in Latin America and Britain. Samsung declined to name potential retailers. EYES ON NETWORK BUSINESS Having conquered the smartphone market that Apple virtually created with the iconic iPhone in 2007, Samsung is seeking to do the same in the network business with the booming 4G mobile equipment market, challenging bigger rivals such as Ericsson, China's Huawei and Nokia Siemens Networks. Many countries need to upgrade mobile base stations to handle not just 3G but also 4G, or build them from scratch to support 4G connections. Shin said the network gear market was one of Samsung's fastest growing businesses, mainly thanks to 4G equipment sales which had been rising more than 30 percent a year since 2010. The new phone would help this part of Samsung's business, he said. "Such technology leadership will set the pace for the competition and help us become a major player in the network gear market," Shin said. Samsung has won some 4G network deals from all major South Korean carriers, U.S. Sprint Nextel Corp and Japan's KDDI Corp and Hutchison Whampoa's British unit, but it needs to crack China to close the gap with traditional vendors in the overall gear equipment market. Shin said there had not been much progress in Samsung's push to penetrate China's 4G equipment market yet, but it was increasing investment in the country. China's three mobile operators - China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom - plan to spend a combined 345 billion yuan ($56.3 billion) this year on network upgrades. That includes investment in 4G, which multiplies mobile broadband speeds by up to five times for users of iPhone and Galaxy phones compared with 3G. Many analysts believe Huawei and ZTE Corp - already big suppliers of China Mobile since only 10-15 percent of 3G network contracts went to foreign vendors - will be winners, leaving others to fight for smaller bits of the pie. Samsung hopes to show Chinese clients that 4G networks with new technology can be built faster and with lower operating costs. (Editing by Dean Yates and Alex Richardson) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Macskafaraok on FlickrAs we explained earlier, this week's Fed meeting is one of the most hotly anticipated Fed meetings in a long time. The recent increase in interest rates and growing talk about the Fed "tapering" its pace of bond purchases has everyone eager to parse every word in the Fed statement, and Bernanke's post-meeting press conference. And it's not just domestic investors who are concerned. The entire world is watching. And for good reason. In an interview with WSJ, a member of Hungary's central bank explains why the Fed matters from the perspective of his country: Hungary's central bankers are worried that any rapid scaling back of easy-money policies by the U.S. Federal Reserve could lead to an abrupt spike in government borrowing costs, weaken the local currency and force an end to their campaign of interest-rate cuts, a bank rate-setter said. A sudden move by the Fed and other major central banks "would be dangerous and very unfavorable for markets," said Gyula Pleschinger, a member of the National Bank of Hungary's monetary-policy council in an interview with The Wall Street Journal. What Pleschinger is worried about is a story that's already playing out in emerging markets all around the world. The US has seen a rise in real interest rates lately (in part thanks to expectations that the Fed will ease up on the gas pedal) and that's caused strengthening of the US dollar against emerging market currencies. Emerging market currencies have been bludgeoned, and that's forced emerging market central banks into some unwelcome decisions. For example, at the end of last week, Indonesia's central bank was forced to raise interest rates to prevent the flight of capital. And as Pleschinger is worried about, interest rates on government debt around the emerging world have been spiking, as money flows out of their economies, back to the US. So the next US rate move is a huge deal. If there's a sense that the Fed is going to actually go down the path of tightening, or at least loosening at a less-quick pace, the flow of liquidity (which once rushed generously to the emerging world during the good ol' QE days) will continue to reverse, sapping these countries of much needed dollars, significantly constraining their ability to act.
Wikimedia CommonsLast week was very quiet for economic news. This week will be much more lively. Of course, the big show is on Wednesday, when we get the latest announcement from the Federal Reserve, but there are going to be other notable datapoints throughout the week. Today we get two important numbers. From Calculated Risk: ï At 8:30 AM, the NY Fed Empire Manufacturing Survey for June will be released. The consensus is for a reading of 0.0, up from -1.4 in May (above zero is expansion).† ï At 10:00 AM, the June NAHB homebuilder survey will be released. The consensus is for a reading of 45, up from 44 in May. This index increased sharply last year, but has moved sideways recently with some builders. Both numbers are interesting. A string of data have suggested that the manufacturing side of the US economy is lagging, so the Empire survey will be important on that front. And then housing is key. The entire bull case on the US economy rests on housing continuing to improve (both in terms of prices and housing starts/construction) so the latest gauge from the homebuilders will be key.
It's been a very bad year for the world's hottest emerging markets. There are two big trends being cited for that. One is the slowdown in commodities and China, which is having a ripple effect for growth among many of the export-oriented commodity economies. The other factor is the rise of the dollar and US interest rates, which are causing investment flows to reverse and leave these hot markets. But in addition to all that we're seeing instability grow. There's obviously the riots in Turkey, which have been going on for weeks now. South Africa has been dealing with mining protests all year. Brazil has lately seen riots, in part due to an increase in bus fares. And now Indonesia is seeing protests and some rioting thanks to a planned fuel price increase. According to AP, the parliament is expected to rescind a subsidy that will result in a 33% increase in at-the-pump prices. The below image of cops taking cover is from Reuters, which describes the image as: Riot police take cover behind their shields to avoid stones thrown by protesters during a protest against the government's plan to raise fuel prices in Makassar, South Sulawesi province. 
The Federal Reserve's next meeting is this week. It's a 2-day meeting that concludes on Wednesday, and it's safe to say that it's the most anticipated such meeting in a long time. Two charts help to convey this. One is simply a search of the financial news headlines for the word "tapering" which refers to the notion that the Fed will start buying fewer bonds each month as part of its QE program. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg Mentions of tapering (red line) have exploded since the start of May, reflecting the growing chatter of this possibility. There's virtually no way the Fed announces anything official on this front, but any hint that it gives about what it's thinking with regard to the future of QE will be watched closely. Now on the real economic front, the big story in global markets has been the turn in interest rates. Whether it's real interest rates, nominal US Treasury rates, or mortgages, there's been a sharp turn up since the start of May. Rates are still low by historical standards, but this sharp turn represents a break from post-crisis trends. The question is whether this is a head fake or if this is really "the big one" so to speak. What the Fed says about its future actions and its forecast for the state of the economy will help answer this question. FRED
The huge event this week is the Federal Reserve's 2-day meeting, which will conclude with a policy statement, an updated economic forecast, and a Ben Bernanke press conference on Wednesday. This is one of the most anticipated meetings in a long time, as everyone wants to know if the Fed will give any hints at all about pulling back on Quantitative Easing. The increase in interest rates hints that the market believes the Fed might. But while the Fed may be getting antsy and eager to begin the exit process, it's not as if the economy is that good. Job creation is still meh by historical standards, as full employment remains a long way away. And the inflation side of the dual-mandate is still missing massively... and unlike employment going in the wrong direction. In last night's Bedtimg with BTIG note, Dan Greenhaus (@danBTIG) included this chart, which shows that every single measure of inflation is low and falling.  Despite the firming economy, prices just keep dropping, which has to be alarming for a Fed worried about fighting deflation. Ben Bernanke has to be looking at this chart, and worrying that walking towards the door might be premature.
77 years ago Barronís magazine wrote the following about Social Security: ìYes sir, Uncle Sam is going to collect money in the form of social-security taxes and use it to run his business and set aside a ëreserveí of his own promises to pay, in order to make it look as though the social-security taxpayers are getting something for their contributions.î The purpose of the article in 1936 was to scare readers silly about the governmentís ability to fund the Social Security program. †Of course, there hasnít been a funding crisis in Social Security, but Barronís decided to double down this weekend writing: ìFrom that day to this,†Barronís†has tried to explain to readers that Social Security is a scheme worthy of the unlamented Charles Ponzi, who gave his name to the recurring fantasy that a growing fund of investments can pay high returns to early investors by using the deposits made by later investors. Sooner or later the Ponzi fund runs out of new investors to be suckered. It cannot continue to pay those generous dividends and the fund manager leaves town, commits suicide or goes quietly to prisonóunless the government is the fund manager.î Describing Social Security as a ìPonzi schemeî is extremely misleading. †And it should be obvious why. †So letís make this dead simple to understand: 1) †The US government has the potential ability to print US dollars if it needs to meet obligations. 2) †The entire US debt is denominated in the currency it has the ability to create. 3) †You canít ìrun out ofî something you can create out of thin air. 4) †So the US government has no real funding constraint, as in, it doesnít have enough dollars to pay the debt. 5) †Thereís no free lunch there though! †But the fact is, the US government has a different constraint. †Its true constraint is inflation. †In other words, since it canít ìrun out of dollarsî its real risk is actually creating so many dollars that inflation ensues. 6) †But inflation is at record low levels. †Which makes sense since 10%+ of our workforce is unemployed, capacity utilization is at record low levels this deep into a recession and the economy remains very sluggish. Anyhow, if you do the math on all of that one thing becomes clear. †Itís illogical to compare Social Security to a ìponzi schemeî. †Ponzi schemes run out of funding at some point. †But the US government canít run out of dollars so thatís clearly wrong. †Now, it could make the dollar worthless by creating too many of them, but thatís very different than running out of dollars. †Hyperinflation is the opposite of running out of money. †Itís creating too much money. So, could hyperinflation happen in the USA? †You bet. †Iíve said it wonít happen for years (despite the many predictions otherwise), but it certainly could. †But we should first understand that the ability to meet our obligations on Social Security is not about whether we have the dollars or not, but whether weíre willing to use our government to allocate resources in specific ways that MIGHT contribute to higher inflation in the future. †Thatís a debate about efficiency of government spending and not about having the ability to create money. Donít get me wrong. †I am not saying thereís a free lunch here. †Absolutely not. †But if weíre going to have an intelligent debate about all of this we should at least start by understanding what the real debate is about. †This isnít about whether we have the ability to fund Social Security. †This is is about understanding the real constraint on our government (the inflation constraint) and how we are going to balance government spending with the side effect of inflation. †Itís a debate we should certainly be having. †And after 77 years of being wrong, I hope that more and more people are beginning to question those who constantly inject fear and misconception into the discussion while failing to put this all into the proper context. †Relying on them year after year is the very definition of insanity and will get us nowhere.
REUTERS/Issei KatoGood morning. It's the start of a big week. This week in the US we'll see some important economic data, as well as get the latest from the Federal Reserve on Wednesday. This week's Fed meeting is the most anticipated in quite some time, as everyone is wondering whether Bernanke will give any hints about a slowdown or "tapering" of Quantitative Easing. In the meantime, markets are off to a good start for the bulls. the sickly Japanese market actually went out on the highs, gaining 2.7%, after starting nearly 1% lower. Europe is nicely higher across the board, with Germany rising 1.2%. And US futures are in the green. So far, so good.
