IN 1999 an 18-year-old called Shawn Fanning changed the music industry for ever. He developed a service, Napster, that allowed individuals to swap music files with one another, instead of buying pricey compact discs from record labels. Lawsuits followed and in July 2001 Napster was shut down. But the idea lives on, in the form of BitTorrent and other peer-to-peer filesharers; the Napster brand is still used by a legal music-downloading service. The story of Napster helps to explain the excitement about Bitcoin, a digital currency, that is based on similar technology. In January a unit of Bitcoin cost around $15 (Bitcoins can be broken down to eight decimal places for small transactions). By the time The Economist went to press on April 11th, it had settled at $179, taking the value of all Bitcoins in circulation to $2 billion. Bitcoin has become one of the world‚Äôs hottest investments, a bubble inflated by social media, loose capital in search of the newest new thing and perhaps even by bank depositors unnerved by recent events in Cyprus. Just like Napster, Bitcoin may crash but leave a lasting legacy. Indeed, the currency experienced a sharp correction on April 10th--at one point losing close to half of its value before recovering sharply (see chart on next page). Yet the price is the least interesting thing about Bitcoin, says Tony Gallippi, founder of BitPay, a firm that processes Bitcoin payments for merchants. More important is the currency‚Äôs ability to make e-commerce much easier than it is today. Bitcoin is not the only digital currency, nor the only successful one. Gamers on Second Life, a virtual world, pay with Linden Dollars; customers of Tencent, a Chinese internet giant, deal in QQ Coins; and Facebook sells "Credits". What makes Bitcoin different is that, unlike other online (and offline) currencies, it is neither created nor administered by a single authority such as a central bank. Instead, "monetary policy" is determined by clever algorithms. New Bitcoins have to be "mined", meaning users can acquire them by having their computers compete to solve complex mathematical problems (the winners get the virtual cash). The coins themselves are simply strings of numbers. They are thus a completely decentralised currency: a sort of digital gold. The EconomistBitcoin‚Äôs inventor, Satoshi Nakamoto, is a mysterious hacker (or a group of hackers) who created it in 2009 and disappeared from the internet some time in 2010. The currency‚Äôs early adopters have tended to be tech-loving libertarians and gold bugs, determined to break free of government control. The most infamous place where Bitcoin is used is Silk Road, a marketplace hidden in an anonymised part of the web called Tor. Users order goods--typically illegal drugs--and pay with Bitcoins. Some legal businesses have started to accept Bitcoins. Among them are Reddit, a social-media site, and WordPress, which provides web hosting and software for bloggers. The appeal for merchants is strong. Firms such as BitPay offer spot-price conversion into dollars. Fees are typically far less than those charged by credit-card companies or banks, particularly for orders from abroad. And Bitcoin transactions cannot be reversed, so frauds cannot leave retailers out of pocket. Yet for Bitcoins to go mainstream much has to happen, says Fred Ehrsam, the co-developer of Coinbase, a Californian Bitcoin exchange and "wallet service", where users can store their digital fortune. Getting hold of Bitcoins for the first time is difficult. Using them is fiddly. They can be stolen by hackers or just lost, like dollar bills in a washing machine. Several Bitcoin exchanges have suffered thefts and crashes over the past two years. As a result, the Bitcoin business has consolidated. The leading exchange is Mt.Gox. Based in Tokyo and run by two Frenchmen, it processes around 80% of Bitcoin-dollar trades. If such a business failed, the currency would be cut off at the knees. In fact, the price hiccup on April 10th was sparked by a software breakdown at Mt.Gox, which panicked many Bitcoin users. The currency‚Äôs legal status is unclear, too. On March 18th the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, an American government agency, proposed to regulate Bitcoin exchanges; this suggests that the agency is unlikely to shut them down. Technical problems will also have to be overcome, says Mike Hearn, a Bitcoin expert. As more users join the network, the amount of data that has to circulate among them (to verify ownership of each Bitcoin) gets bigger, which slows the system down. Technical fixes could help but they are hard to deploy: all users must upgrade their Bitcoin wallet and mining software. Mr Hearn worries that the currency could grow too fast for its own good. But the real threat is competition. Bitcoin-boosters like to point out that, unlike fiat money, new Bitcoins cannot be created at whim. That is true, but a new digital currency can be. Alternatives are already in development. Litecoin, a Bitcoin clone, is one. So far it is only used by a tiny hard-core of geeks, but it too has shot up in price of late. Rumour has it that Litecoin will be tradable on Mt.Gox soon. A less nerdy alternative is Ripple. It will be much easier to use than Bitcoin, says Chris Larsen, a serial entrepreneur from Silicon Valley and co-founder of OpenCoin, the start-up behind Ripple. Transactions are approved (or not) in a few seconds, compared with the ten minutes a typical Bitcoin trade takes to be confirmed. There is no mystery about the origins of Ripple nor (yet) any association with criminal or other dubious activities. OpenCoin is expected to start handing out Ripples to the public in May. It has created 100 billion, a number it promises never to increase. To give the new currency momentum, OpenCoin plans eventually to give away 75% of the supply. Anyone opening an OpenCoin account will receive five Ripples; existing Bitcoin users will get more. The 25% retained by OpenCoin will give it a huge incentive to make sure that the Ripple is strong: the higher its value, the bigger the reward for OpenCoin‚Äôs investors when the firm cashes out. On April 10th several blue-chip venture-capital firms, including the ultra-hip Andreessen Horowitz, announced that they had invested in OpenCoin. If Ripple gains traction, even bigger financial players may enter the fray. A firm such as Visa could create its own cheap instant international-payments system, notes BitPay‚Äôs Mr Gallippi. And what if a country were to issue algorithmic money? At that point Bitcoin would probably be bust. But if that happened, its creators would have achieved something like Mr Fanning. Napster and other file-sharing services have forced the music industry to embrace online services such as iTunes or Spotify. Bitcoin‚Äôs price may collapse; its users may suddenly switch to another currency. But the chances are that some form of digital money will make a lasting impression on the financial landscape. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
The following is a wonkish discussion of one aspect of the White House budget. The Presidentís budget will never see the light of day, but I think it is instructive to look at this component of the plan, and expose it for what it is ñ A fraud. One element of the White House budget is a new form of financing for States and Municipalities. The White House has dubbed this new debt as America Fast Forward Bonds (AFF). This financing tool is very similar to the Build America Bonds (BABs) that were created in 2009 as part of the economic stimulus. The proposal is to allow Munis to issue taxable debt. The objective is increase the number of investors who would invest in Muni debt. Traditionally, Munis have financed themselves by issuing tax free bonds. As no tax is levied against this form of interest income, the cost of the debt has been lower than taxable debt. The problem is that in order to benefit from the tax free status, the holder of debt must be taxable in the US. Assume that an individual is in the 28% federal tax bracket and is making a bond investment. They have two alternatives: 1) Invest in a AA corporate taxable bond that yields 5%. 2) Invest in a AA Tax Free Muni bond at 3.6%. Assuming that the credits are equivalent risks, then the investor is indifferent as to which bond they chose. The after tax yield is identical (5% minus 28% tax = 3.6%). As a result, only US taxable investors can buy Munis. (That or they are stupid..) The Presidentís proposal is to widen the audience of potential investors for Munis. If the AFF proposal were implemented, it would be extremely successful. The investment demand for taxable Munis is huge. This fact was proven with the BABs bonds. Everyone loved them ñ Wall Street sold the hell out of them, investors snatched them up. AFF bonds would be no different. The problem with AFF bonds is what they will cost taxpayers. The lie from the White House is that AFFs will be revenue neutral. This is the same lie that was told about the BABs bonds. Iím amazed that the Administration is continuing with this charade. It must believe that Congress and the American people are stupid to have re-introduced this idea. Buried deep in the hundreds of pages of budget information the White House lie is presented. On page 194 of the ìAnalytical Perspectives ñ Government Receiptsî there is a discussion of the AFF bonds. This is the key language: The Administration proposes to create a new permanent America Fast Forward Bond program, which would be an optional alternative to traditional tax exempt bonds. Like Build America Bonds, America Fast Forward Bonds would be conventional taxable bonds issued by State and local governments in which the Federal government makes direct payments to State and local governmental issuers . The subsidy rate would be 28 percent, which is approximately revenue neutral. Hereís the White House math: - Muni issues taxable bonds at 5% - Treasury pays the Muni 28% of the interest expense. (1.4% federal rebate). - Investors earn 5% and pay (on average) 28% in federal taxes, the government collects the full 1.4% it has paid to the States. As a result, this is ìrevenue neutralî to the Federal Government. The White House provided specifics of the net cost of issuing the new AFF bonds on page 211. As you can see, the claim is that AFFs wonít cost a dime: † Bruce Krasting † †Letís look at those footnotes: Bruce Krasting † As presented by the White House, this all makes sense. The Treasury will pay out $53B, but the IRS will collect taxes from bond holders at the 28% rate and receive the $53B back in income taxes. Therefore there is no net cost (slide #1), at least that is how the information is presented. Who will buy the AFF bonds? All sorts of investors. Pension plans will love them. Folks with IRAs and 401Ks will lap them up, but by far, the biggest buyers will be foreigners. When the Treasury Department first introduced the concept of AFF bonds it described the potential investors as: AFF bonds would attract new sources of capital for infrastructure investmentóincluding from public pension funds and foreign investors. The problem is that none of these buyers are paying US taxes. So very little of the tax revenue the White House is including in its analysis is going to be realized. AFFs are going to cost the taxpayers a bundle. I went through the same arguments about BAB bonds. The Treasury Department sold the BABS proposal back in 2009 as being tax neutral. It wasnít true then for BABs, it is equally untrue for AFFs today. As part of my proof that that this was not budget neutral I provided an email response from the IRS I received on the tax collections related to BABs. That response (LINK): In response to your request for the percentage of tax collections from bonds associated with Build America Bonds, we will not be able to answer your request. Unlike tax-exempt bonds build America bonds are taxable, but the IRS Tax-Exempt area collects no data on the tax obligations associated with them. The IRS has no ideal what the tax receipts were regarding BABS, yet the White House is making exact forecasts of what the revenues will be for AFF bonds. The Treasury department has flat out said the bonds are likely to go to tax exempt hands, the White House assumes that all the AFF bond holders will pay US tax at the 28% rate. The reality is that BABS were not revenue neutral, and the facts are that AFF bonds will not be revenue neutral either. But the Presidentís budget says they will be, and that is a flat out lie. Republicans hated BABS, they will hate AFF bonds too, so this part of the Presidentís budget will never be enacted.† But there is a lie in the White House proposal for AFF bonds. One can safely assume that there are many other lies in the Presidentís plan. What bothers me is that so called ìEconomistsî like Alan Blinder of Princeton make OpEd statements in the Wall Street Journal supporting the White House budget. Blinder went out of his way to defend the ìcredible numbersî, I doubt Blinder even looked at the numbers, that or heís just a shill for the Administration. Bruce Krasting
In case you weren't already convinced that the late Margaret Thatcher was an extremely controversial figure in the U.K.,†here's video of protesters in London's Trafalgar Square carrying an effigy of Thatcher earlier this afternoon:  Yes, she is dragging a coffin with the word "society" on it. According to the Guardian, there were approximately†1,700 protesters at the scene today, which started at 6 p.m. (1 p.m. EST) and is still ongoing. The event is being heavily policed and there have been some minor scuffles with the crowd. While the protests are largely against Thatcher's economic legacy, they are also attacking contemporary issues ó such as austerity cuts from the British government that went into place a few weeks ago. You can watch live video of the protests here.  
In this week's print edition, Barron's Randall Forsythe updates his readers on the story of Bitcoin, the virtual currency that saw its value balloon and burst in a matter of days. He sees the story as a reflection of skepticism towards fiat money as the world's central banks print away. Forsythe thinks all of this makes for a bullish case for gold. "[I]t is incongruous that goldómoney that can't be printed, just mintedówould enter a bear market Friday," he writes. Indeed, gold had a very ugly Friday. Here's more from Forsythe's piece "Bitcoin for Your Thoughts? Buy Gold": The rush to the Bitcoin may have been a speculative bubble, but it may also represent an inchoate search for an alternative to government-controlled paper currencies. Gold would fit that bill, but it appears caught up in a liquidation of commodities, such as base metals and petroleum products, and as a component in commodity indexes. Commodities are produced to be consumed. Gold isn't consumed; virtually all the gold ever extracted still exists as a store of value or a thing of beauty. That makes it fundamentally different from commodities. Some day, an alternative to gold that doesn't require the tedious and expensive mining, storage, and transfer of the metal may be conjured. Those difficulties gave rise to paper money, which is being abused. For now, gold no longer is loved, which, to an independent-minded contrarian investor, only adds to its allure. Read Forsythe's whole piece at Barrons.com.
AP Photo/Ivan SekretarevRussian President Vladimir Putin has released documents that appear to show he had an income of almost 5.8 million rubles (about $187,000) in 2012. That figure was included in tax reports uploaded to the Kremlin's website earlier this week ó part of a transparency obligation for Russian officials that began last year. However, there's plenty of reason to doubt Putin's official claims. According to the documents, Putin lives a relatively spartan life. The Russian president owns a plot of land, an apartment and a garage. He is in possession of three cars ó two Soviet-made Gaz cars and a Niva SUV. His rarely-seen-in-public wife, Lyudmila, is said to own no property and have an income of less than $4,000. To put that in context, the salary for the job of U.S. president is $400,000. Barack Obama's net worth was estimated to be between $2.8 million and $11.8 million in 2010. Putin's own wealth has long been a subject of speculation. Some reports of his net worth are incredibly high, with one suggesting it may be an enormous $40 billion. The most fantastic estimates go as high as $70 billion. That figure which would make Putin the richest man on earth. His lifestyle certainly seems more akin to that of a richer man. He is said to have access to a fleet of vehicles worth $1 billion, has been spotted wearing watches worth at least $687,000 at retail, and he is rumored to have been building a private palace on the Black Sea worth $1 billion since 2006. Putin's income announcement comes in the middle of the Kremlin's highly publicized battle against corruption amongst the Russian political elite. The Russian government is reportedly planning to audit every single government employee, and new laws will soon ban officials from having accounts and assets abroad. Other politicians also had to declare their own assets and incomes. First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov, the government's spokesperson on the economy, revealed he had a huge income of 448.4 million rubles ($14.4 million), AFP reports. He has been forced to issue a statement explaining that none of his wealth breaks the law.
    A behind-the-scenes look at the NASA telescope that will search for signs of life on distant planets<U+200B>      But is it? In fact, Saudi Arabia is no state at all. There are two ways to describe it: as a political enterprise with a clever but ultimately unsustainable business model, or as an entity so corrupt as to resemble a vertically and horizontally integrated criminal organization. Either way, it can&#x2019;t last. It&#x2019;s past time U.S. decision-makers began planning for the collapse of the Saudi kingdom. An embarrassed silence follows. &#x201C;Well,&#x201D; says the prophet. &#x201C;It&#x2019;s not quite the conflagration I&#x2019;d been banking on &#x2026; Never mind, lads, same time tomorrow.&#x201D; The sketch comes to mind as the nation&#x2019;s capital decompensates over the death of Justice Antonin Scalia. Scalia&#x2019;s body will lie in repose at the Court on Friday; but he had not even been removed from the remote ranch where he died before some Republican politicians proclaimed the End of the World. &#x201C;I don&#x2019;t think the American people want a Court that will strip our religious liberties,&#x201D; said GOP presidential candidate Ted Cruz. &#x201C;I don&#x2019;t think the American people want a Court that will mandate unlimited abortion-on-demand, partial-birth abortion with taxpayer funding, and no parental notification. And I don&#x2019;t think the American people want a Court that will write the Second Amendment out of the Constitution.&#x201D; Mitch McConnell, restrained only by contrast, said: &#x201C;The American people&#x200E; should have a voice in the selection of their next Supreme Court justice. Therefore, this vacancy should not be filled until we have a new president&#x201D;&#x2014;thereby proclaiming the next nine months a prolonged referendum on the Court. Full of joy and love? When I listen to Pablo, I hear wide-eyed fear and confusion. I hear strain. I hear a yearning for joy and love. The real thing is only rarely present. This isn&#x2019;t a complaint, per se. Kanye West has made some uplifting music over the years, but his most classic songs usually involve large amounts of conflict and doubt, the same emotions that are the bedrock of Pablo. As you might imagine, such bedrock is not firm. The album contains the least consistent music West has ever put out, and that&#x2019;s both a good and bad thing for the listener. Even when it&#x2019;s frustrating, there&#x2019;s drama in how it wobbles. In the early 19th century, the most prominent scientific minds turned their attention to the heavens, and the greatest symbol of a nation&#x2019;s scientific status was the possession of a telescopic observatory. Belgium, however, did not have one. In 1823, Quetelet somehow managed to convince the Dutch government that ruled Belgium to shell out the exorbitant sum needed to build an observatory in Brussels, and very soon Quetelet was appointed to its top position, the director of the observatory. As the lengthy construction proceeded, Quetelet embarked on a series of visits to observatories throughout Europe to learn the latest observational methods. It seemed he had perfectly positioned himself to make an enviable run at scientific acclaim&#x2014;but then, in 1830, just as he was wrapping up his tour of Europe, Quetelet received bad news: Belgium had plunged into revolution. The Brussels observatory was occupied by rebel troops. In July 2014, Eric Garner, an African American man reportedly selling loose cigarettes illegally, was choked to death by a New York City policeman. That August, a white police officer, Darren Wilson, shot and killed an African American teenager, Michael Brown, in Ferguson, Missouri. For close to two weeks, protesters battled police clad in military gear. Missouri&#x2019;s governor said the city looked like a war zone. In December, an African American man with a criminal record avenged Garner&#x2019;s and Brown&#x2019;s deaths by murdering two New York City police officers. At the officers&#x2019; funerals, hundreds of police turned their backs on New York&#x2019;s liberal mayor, Bill de Blasio. The latest bad news came on Wednesday, when popular Governor Nikki Haley endorsed Senator Marco Rubio. Her backing gives Rubio another boost in his quest to consolidate the backing of the Republican establishment against Donald Trump and Ted Cruz, and it makes it even harder for Bush to do that. Bush had been angling for Haley&#x2019;s endorsement too, and on Tuesday&#x2014;in a moment of candor he may regret now, told NBC, &#x201C;She is the probably the most meaningful endorsement if there is, if she is going to give an endorsement it would be the most powerful meaningful one in the state.&#x201D; Here, in a dim room half an hour south of London, a tribe of programmers sit bowed at their computers, creating a vast digital cosmos. Or rather, through the science of procedural generation, they are making a program that allows a universe to create itself. The ambitious project will be released as a video game this June under the title No Man&#x2019;s Sky. In the game, randomly-placed astronauts isolated from one another by millions of lightyears must find their own existential purpose as they traverse a galaxy of 18,446,744,073,709,551,616 unique planets. Cost, of course, is the biggie. Although the world&#x2019;s inexorable movement toward a global labor market might be a good thing overall, helping increase wealth and better match skills with positions, it&#x2019;s unclear what this means for the modern welfare state. The idea that a state should look after its citizens&#x2019; economic and social well-being&#x2014;providing safety nets in the form of unemployment insurance, pensions, or health insurance&#x2014;has spread widely since its first big trial run in 19th-century Europe. After all, it&#x2019;s now on display in various forms from the Americas to Russia to Saudi Arabia to China. But can it survive in an age with fewer borders? Won&#x2019;t state coffers eventually be empty if more and more immigrants start drawing on them? Combatting this wastefulness is at the heart of a growing number of clothing brands offering alternatives to so-called &#x201C;fast fashion,&#x201D; the trendy, throwaway method of selling clothes pioneered by companies such as H&amp;M, and the cultural force to blame for the world&#x2019;s overflowing and underutilized closets. Among the other startups positioning themselves as durable and ethical alternatives to throwaway fads are the online retailers Zady, Cuyana, Of a Kind, Everlane, and The 30 Year Sweatshirt.
Just like everyone else in the financial markets over the last week or so I have become the world-famous specialist on Japanese flows (!)*. I have heard a lot of more or less plausible stories and when I was trying to digest all the noise, I couldn‚Äôt help but think about ‚ÄúNothing As It Seems‚Äù by Pearl Jam: Occupations overthrown, a whisper through a megaphoneIt‚Äôs nothing as it seems, the little that he needs, it‚Äôs homeThe little that he sees, is nothing he concedes, it‚Äôs homeAnd all that he frees, a little bittersweet, it‚Äôs homeIt‚Äôs nothing as it seems, the little that you see, it‚Äôs home‚Ä¶ -¬†Jeff Ament, Pearl Jam I am not certain what is going to happen with the wall of money that is seemingly coming from Japan, but I know that there‚Äôs a remarkable amount of superficial analysis, which I would like to comment on. 1. The Japanese carry trade will continue as the BoJ prints more. According to estimates by Daiwa net issuance of JGBs after stripping BoJ purchases will be -26trn yen. This is around 5% of GDP, which is a pretty monstrous amount. This naturally makes people‚Äôs imagination go into overdrive, particularly as we‚Äôre talking about the country with decent carry-trading history. But there is one problem with such an approach. Carry trade was Japan‚Äôs response to the lack of returns in the local market. Bond yields have been ridiculously low and the stock exchange was still suffering as zombie-banks kept dragging it (and the economy) lower. Now, do you think this situation has not changed even a bit? We may be agreeing or disagreeing with what the BoJ is doing but investors (particularly retail) could be excused for e.g. thinking that the Nikkei will double this year. This is particularly the case as what the BoJ seems to have orchestrated is a fantastic opportunity for the Japanese banks to cash in on their available-for-sale JGB portfolios. So answer yourself this question ‚Äì is it so entirely obvious that Mrs Watanabe continues buying AUDJPY (annual yield of 3.2%), ZARJPY (annual yield 5.4%) or MXNJPY (annual yield 4%)? Granted, these and many other currencies will continue to constitute a very important part of the Japanese investment portfolio but pretending that the investment backdrop in Japan has not changed is naive in my opinion. 2. The big yen move has only just begun. Currently various forecasters are trying to come up with the most bearish view for the yen. I have already seen 120/USD but admittedly I do not pay much attention to that stuff. But try to think who has so far made money on the yen debasement? If you don‚Äôt know then try to get a hold of the HSBC hedge fund report to see that the vast majority of macro funds have caught at least a part of this move. And because selling the yen is seemingly such a no-brainer**, not being in the trade is a big career-risk for many. In some sense, macro hedge funds cannot afford to miss another leg in the yen move (if there is one). But in the greater scheme of things this is just noise. Don‚Äôt forget that the Japanese economy has just become at least 30% cheaper. And we are talking about a bunch of historically deadly innovative companies who have managed to keep their place in the global market place against all odds. Goldman has recently produced a study showing that the country with the most similar exports composition to Japan‚Äôs is‚Ä¶ Germany. It is already very much visible it the underperformance of the DAX, in my opinion. Personally I prefer Mercedes over Toyota but at a 25% discount I know I would change my mind. My thinking is as follows: if this yen depreciation and the crowding out of the Japanese banks from the JGB market is persistent then Japan has every chance to become the champion of the global trade again. And if so, why on earth would I be buying GBPJPY or AUDJPY? Let me give you another example: If you have been selling the yen and buying the South African rand consistently in the last five years then only last week did you break even on your average spot level. Sure, you got some coupons in between but it cannot be ruled out that investors who have been buying the ZAR against the JPY will just take this as an opportunity to close the position after being bailed out by the BoJ. 3. Banks will invest abroad. This bit I find preposterous. I have mentioned above that banks may have just been given a lifeline by the BoJ and they will be able to off-load their¬†available¬†for-sale portfolios at a significant profit. What they do with the cash next is anyone‚Äôs guess but banks are not really in the business of punting on currency markets with their balance sheets. Believe it or not but even when GS recommends buying EURUSD, it‚Äôs not like Goldman‚Äôs treasury shifts all its money to Europe. Banks operate in the ‚ÄúLIBOR+‚Äù world. They are happy to take exposure to foreign bonds but it is usually done on an asset swap basis. Below are a few bonds that I just looked up on Bloomberg and how they compare when swapped to JPY. As you can see those differences are not huge and definitely not big enough to make emerging markets irresistible. Additionally, there‚Äôs a perverse effect of what‚Äôs been going on in the JGB market lately. The chart below shows a crude calculation of VaR for 10y JGB futures since 2000.  A chart of the yield volatility is looking even scarier, which ‚Äì paradoxically ‚Äì could bring the Japanese banks into a risk-reduction mode as no one can bear such wild swings of the profit and loss account. And adding Brazilian assets to the portfolio doesn‚Äôt help much. 4. Asset managers, insurance companies and pension funds will invest abroad. Yes they will. The same way as they have in the past. Well, maybe with a bit bigger size but it‚Äôs far from being certain at the moment. If it‚Äôs the yen weakness they‚Äôre after then I suppose buying the USD will do (without adding an extra layer of volatility between the USD and some other currency). And if they don‚Äôt think the yen weakens much from here then why would they accelerate foreign buying in the first place? This brings us to the last point I would like to make. As much as in previous years the Japanese investments abroad were driven by expectations of superior returns outside of the country, we are now talking about the expected yen weakness. In my opinion this changes the structure of investors taking advantage of the move and I believe that it will be the foreigners shorting the yen, rather than the locals. This, at least in the near term, makes it a tactical, rather than a structural trade. So these were my views on the whole situation. I don‚Äôt have any concrete recommendations this time but I just don‚Äôt like how one-sided the discussion has become. And if I‚Äôm wrong then‚Ä¶ well‚Ä¶ listening to Eddie Vedder while writing this post definitely made it worth my while. * not sure how to stress that I am being ironic, but I have noticed that subtitled movies on Sky have (!) at the end of sarcastic sentences. ** I have always thought that no-brainers are for people without brains but somehow this definition hasn‚Äôt become mainstream.
Sam Hurd via Flickr Arianna Huffington, successful immigrant.ON APRIL 19th Jack Markell, the governor of Delaware, is due to visit a new factory being built in his state by Bloom Energy, a start-up based in Silicon Valley. Bloom makes clean power-generation systems using a novel fuel-cell technology. It is investing over $40m in its facility in Newark and plans to hire hundreds of people. Some will be carworkers who lost their jobs in 2008 when Chrysler shuttered a factory that once stood on the same site. Gary Convis, Bloomís chief operations officer, says that the company has already hired over 100 former carworkers at its existing site in Silicon Valley. They used to work at a Toyota factory in the Bay Area, which closed in 2010. K.R. Sridhar, Bloomís boss, says auto workers make good hires. His firmís products have some systems in them similar to ones found in car engines. Bloom is also hiring military veterans used to tinkering with motors. "We are creating the next generation of jobs for middle-class Americans," says Mr Sridhar, an immigrant from India who was an academic and an adviser to NASA before co-founding Bloom. Like many other entrepreneurs who have come to America and gone on to found businesses, Bloomís boss is worried that the countryís immigration policies are hurting its prospects. Other tech moguls are also concerned. Mark Zuckerberg, the boss of Facebook, and a bunch of other Silicon Valley types are planning to launch a well-funded political-advocacy group to lobby for more visas for skilled immigrants. Applications for this yearís quota of 65,000 "H-1B" visas for such workers began on April 1st. In less than a week they were oversubscribed. Congress is working to reform immigration laws. Tech folk hope it will open Americaís doors to the legions of brainy foreigners clamouring to come in. But the final reform may be less bold. Many voters believe that newcomers steal jobs from natives. Companies are doing little to refute this myth, despite ample evidence. Some 40% of Fortune 500 firms were founded by immigrants or their children, according to the Partnership for a New American Economy, a pressure group. So were the firms behind seven of the ten most valuable brands in the world. Although the foreign-born are only an eighth of Americaís population, a quarter of high-tech start-ups have an immigrant founder (see left-hand chart). New firms have an impact across America. "We havenít told enough stories about high-tech job creation inspired by young firms," says Michael McGeary of Engine, an advocacy group for start-ups. Last year Engine sponsored a study that showed high-tech employment growing fastest in places you might not associate with bits and bytes (see right-hand chart). Many start from a low base. But it is clear that high-tech jobs are spreading beyond Silicon Valley and New York. Some are being created by start-ups local to the area. Others are being offered by firms such as ZocDoc, a New York start-up that helps people find doctors and dentists, and lets them make appointments online. In March the company opened an office near Phoenix, where it plans to add 650 staff over the next three years. Oliver Kharraz, a German who is one of ZocDocís co-founders, says the firm, which employs some 400 people, needed a presence out west to help it serve customers there and drive new sales. It also wanted to ensure that business would keep ticking over even if New York were to be hit by a hurricane again. The Economist Other companies in tech hubs have opened faraway offices to tap new pools of skilled labour. Appirio, which advises companies on cloud-computing strategies, has opened an office in Indianapolis. "Lots of talented students are hungry for tech jobs, which are rare there," says Narinder Singh, one of the companyís co-founders, whose parents came to America from India. RingCentral, a Silicon Valley firm that supplies cloud-based phone systems to businesses, has hired 74 staff in an office in Denver that opened in 2011. Vlad Shmunis, the firmís Ukraine-born founder, says it wanted to be near another big university that could be a source of smart employees. Soaring salaries and extortionate rents in big tech centres encourage start-ups to hire elsewhere. Gild, a young San Francisco firm applying "big data" techniques to the recruitment of software engineers, is planning to open an office in Salt Lake City, where the tussle for talent is less ferocious. "It wouldnít surprise me if the Salt Lake office becomes bigger than the San Francisco one in future," says Sheeroy Desai, a co-founder of Gild who came to America from Pakistan in the 1980s to study. Logistics matter, too. Bloom Energy decided to open a factory in Delaware to make it easier to get its fuel cells, which are the size of a small car, to customers on the east coast. And View, another immigrant-founded Californian start-up, has opened its only factory in Mississippi, where it employs some 150 people to produce smart windows that change tint to alter the amount of heat and light entering a building without obscuring the view for those inside it. The firm chose a site near Memphis because it is a good place from which to ship stuff to the rest of America. High-tech jobs matter not just to software engineers, scientists and the folk working in factories such as Bloomís and Viewís. They also have a broader impact on employment. Engineís report estimates that for every job created in the high-tech sector, another 4.3 jobs emerge over time in the local economy. That is more than three times the local "multiplier" for manufacturing jobs. Well-paid techies shop a lot and hire others to iron their shirts (if they wear shirts, that is). High-tech firms such as Google (whose co-founder Sergey Brin moved to America from Russia as a child) havenít just created jobs for their own workers. They have also inspired the creation of entirely new categories of job. A few years ago no one earned a living as a mobile-app developer. Now they are everywhere. It is not just full-time workers who benefit: firms such as oDesk, a Silicon Valley outfit founded by two Greeks, are nurturing an online freelance economy that is in its infancy. Last year Americans using oDeskís platform found over 2m hours of freelance work. Given all this, it is worrying that the proportion of start-ups in Silicon Valley founded by immigrants has fallen from 52% to 44% since 2005, according to the Kauffman Foundation, a think-tank. In America as a whole, the proportion has stopped climbing for the first time in decades. Vivek Wadhwa, the author of "The Immigrant Exodus", suspects this is because the government has made it so much harder for immigrants to obtain permanent residency. Without a green card, brainy foreigners who quit their day jobs to start new companies risk deportation. Immigrant entrepreneurs seldom make their own case well in public. Having spent so long trying to fit in, they are often reluctant to draw attention to the fact that they were born elsewhere, observes Scott Sandell of NEA Associates, a venture-capital firm that has backed many of them. The stakes are high. America has benefited enormously from immigrantsí resourcefulness and penchant for risk-taking, says Mr Sridhar. But it lets in only 225,000 foreigners with special skills a year. This amounts to less than 0.1% of the total labour force. Proportionally, some of the countryís rivals let in more. Americaís job-generating machine cannot run at full throttle for long if it is starved of fuel. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
An engineer, a chemist, and an economist are stranded on a deserted island. They are starving, when miraculously they find a box filled with canned food. What to do? They consider the problem, bringing their collective lifetimes of study and discipline to the task. Being the practical, straightforward sort, the engineer suggests that they simply find a rock and hit the cans until they break open. ìNo, no!î cry the chemist and economist, ìwe would spill too much food and the birds would get it!î After a bit of thought, the chemist recommends that they start a fire and heat the cans. The pressure in the cans will force them open and the food will conveniently already be heated. But the engineer and economist object, pointing out correctly that the cans would likely explode and splatter the food all over the beach. The economist, after carefully studying the cans and reading the labels, starts scrawling a series of equations in the sand, which eventually cover the entire beach. After much pondering, he excitedly announces, ìIíve got it! Iíve got it!î as he points to the final equation. They ask him to explain, with their visions of finally getting a meal causing them to regard the economist with a new sense of respect.† The economist clears his throat and begins, ìFirst, assume a can opener Öî I am not sure how old that joke is, but it dates to about the time when economists discovered mathematics and models, which is to say, about the time when economists developed physics envy and decided they would like to be regarded as scientists rather than philosophers. This week we continue to look at the data and models developed by economists, with a view to understanding both their usefulness and their limitations. The specific data we will examine this week is inspired by the release of the Presidentís FY 2014 US budget proposal this week. While it and the House and Senate budget proposals may appear to be widely divergent, there are some underlying and quite disturbing similarities among them. Specifically, all three proposals assume away the real world. It does not matter which version you prefer; they all lack the basic precautions and hedges that those of us involved with preparing family and business budgets make sure to include in our own forecasts. While whole books could be written about the underlying assumptions in these latest budget proposals, we will examine (hopefully briefly) just a few of the more glaringly problematic ones. Like our castaways with their abundance of canned food but no can opener, a US budget forecaster is faced with the problem of predicting the fiscal future of a very large, very real economic system, but without a crystal ball. And as we saw last week, economists are not particularly good at telling us what happened in the year that just passed, let alone in the year to come. (And we often see national budgets that presume to extend out for ten years or more.) The basic challenge is pretty simple. There is a need to forecast revenues and expenses. Expenses are the more straightforward of the two. Most government expenses are line items in a budget. ìWe project we will spend $5 billion a year fixing roads and bridges, $1 billion on our national parks, $925 billion on defense, etc.î Social Security, too, is straightforward. Healthcare involves a lot of guestimates, and unemployment costs go up and down with the economy. Revenues are a bit trickier. Income tax revenues obviously go up and down with incomes, as do corporate taxes and Social Security and Medicare taxes. If there is a recession, revenues will fall. If you get an economic boom, then revenues could turn out better than projected. I think I remember some economists predicting in the mid-í90s that the rest of the decade would be flat or trend down ñ we had a boom. In the middle of the last decade I predicted a Muddle Through Economy, which to me meant 2% GDP growth, down from the average of 3% we had experienced for decades. Two percent turns out to have been slightly optimistic, although I remember more than a few people telling me I was just too bearish. I would be very happy if we could manage 2% average growth for the current decade. As I wrote a few months ago (here and here), there are several respected forecasters, including Jeremy Grantham and Robert Gordon, who think 1% (or less!) is more likely. Last year we were at a real inflation-adjusted growth rate of 1.7%. Nominal growth of 3.5% for 2012 was the lowest since the end of WWII. So what do our intrepid budget forecasters predict for the next ten years? Not content to project that current trends will persist, they have whipped on their rose-colored glasses to deliver us bright promises of spectacular growth. David Malpass writes Thursday in the Wall Street Journal that Obamaís 2013 budget projections make a prediction of 3.6% growth by 2016, with tax revenues up by 50%. But Obama may seem to be conservative if we look at the projections of the Congressional Budget Office. The next chart is from work done by Veronique de Rugy. It shows that the CBO projects that growth in 2013 will slow to 1.4% and then TRIPLE to 4.2% over the next three years! In the years 2015-2017 they project the US to grow 4% annually on average. And that is real growth theyíre foreseeing, not nominal growth. John Mauldin I read that and went straight to the latest CBO report to check. But there on page 40 and following were the actual numbers. The next chart is from page 41 of that 77-page report, which contains extensive details as to how they arrive at their various expense and revenue projections. I should note that they are consistent in that they do not project low interest rates during their predicted economic boom of the next several years. The Obama administration, on the other hand, assumes in their budget proposal that interest rates will be only 1.2% in 2106, to accompany their 3.6% growth (and inflation of only 2.2%). Now THAT would be a very accommodative Federal Reserve. John Mauldin Either way, interest costs are projected to rise dramatically as the decade progresses, more than doubling in real terms. In nominal terms, interest-rate costs are expected to increase almost FOURFOLD, from a current $224 billion to a projected $857 billion! That means interest-rate costs are projected to grow to roughly 16% of the federal budget within this decade (back-of-the-napkin estimate). The increase in debt (in dollar terms), along with an anticipated substantial rise in interest rates as the economy strengthens, is expected to sharply boost interest payments on the debt. CBO projects that, under current law, the governmentís yearly net interest spending †will double as a share of GDPófrom 1.5 percent in 2014 to 3.3 percent in 2023, a percentage that has been exceeded only once in the past 50 years. (CBO) I should note that both the CBOís and the Obama administrationís assumptions are much more optimistic than those of Federal Reserve economists (to the extent that they make projections). And the track record of the Fed is that, on average, they have projected 2.1% more GDP growth than actually occurred, just one year out. Philippa Dunne &amp; Doug Henwood of The Liscio Report supplied that surprising figure, and continued in their piece this week: What does this mean for the future? Since the timing of the withdrawal of ease is highly dependent on these major economic indicators, we should take the Fedís forecasts of their future course skeptically. Given the demonstrated difficulties they have forecasting a year or less ahead, forecasts two years or more in the future seem especially questionable. (Corroborating a remark from a CBO official we relayed back in 2007 that forecasting out even 2 years is a waste of time.) Since so many forecasts tend to be extrapolations of the present and recent past, the timing of QE withdrawal is likely to be more dependent on the real-time trajectory of major economic indicators than on imagined futures. Even though at least one CBO economist thought it was a waste of time to make even two-year projections, they do attempt a ten-year projection. How optimistic are they? Well, letís go the FRED database at the St. Louis Fed (a marvelous tool and one of the more important free sources I use). This is the percentage change in GDP year over year since 1940. Note that we have to go back to the 1960s to find a period where GDP grew by 4% for three years running. In fact, we have to go to 1969 to find even one year when it was 4%! John Mauldin Optimistic GDP projections mean that whatever revenue projections accompany them are also likely to be overly optimistic. Given the federal governmentís lack of control over expenses, and its track record in forecasting expenses, it is likely that expenses will be underestimated, making actual deficits larger than they expect. One example: we have already seen Obamacare costs rise by over 40% from the projections just two years ago. (That 40% does not even take into account what your private insurance costs have already risen and are going to continue to rise. Obamacare is going to be a giant economic debacle. That is not meant as an argument for or against universal coverage or coverage of pre-existing conditions. It is just noting that the economics of the way we are going about achieving our healthcare goals are turning our national program into a daunting fiscal disaster.) Go back and look at the chart just above. Notice the shaded gray areas. Those are recessions. Now notice that there is not one decade without a recession, and most have two. Obama, the Senate, and the House all assume that we have vanquished the recession virus and will not experience that economic malady again in our near future. Can I get any of my readers to make a wager with me that the US will somehow get through the rest of this decade without a recession? Buehler? Anyone? I thought not. But that is exactly the wager that Congress and Obama are making with your tax dollars. Their budgets show expenses rising for the next ten years. And if we get a recession they will want to run even larger deficits. Their argument will be that we canít possibly cut the fiscal deficit during a recession ñ that would make things even worse! Austerity doesnít work; we all know that. What happens if we do get a recession? Revenues go down, of course. Unemployment goes up, as do associated costs like unemployment checks. Note the graph below. CBO forecasters assume that GDP will recover back to its former trend line, instead of simply growing from a lower base; and that is where they get their obscenely rosy back-to-back-to-back 4% increases. John Mauldin What happens if we land in a recession instead? Not only do we not get back to that trend, we drift farther from it! Will the CBO then project 5% GDP growth for three years running to get us back to the original trend? That would be no more absurd than what they are doing now. The reality is that no politician or government agency can forecast a recession (unless, as in 2012, they are arguing against a sequestration that is projected to actually cut spending). None of us really know when the next recession will happen. Theoretically, we could go another 10 years without one. It is also possible that the government will reveal that there really are aliens in Area 51. I leave it to you to decide which is more likely. While acknowledging that forecasting a recession is impossible and politically a non-starter, it would be nice if forecasters and politicians were to admit the possibility of lower-than-estimated revenues and willingly contemplate what might happen if a recession did transpire. As the US approaches a truly debilitating debt level, I want to ask them, ìWill you please tell us what the plan is if we experience recession rather than expansion?î I can hear the answer now: ìI donít want to speculate about possible recessions. That is pointless.î But my rejoinder would be, ìYou are perfectly willing to speculate that we will have no recession and that we will grow at a rate not seen in over 40 years, not even during the Reagan and Clinton boom years. How speculative is that?î (Where is Nixon when we need him? Or was the growth during his reign a legacy from Kennedy and Johnson? Or was it just American productivity?) The defense budget is projected to fall about 13% in actual dollars from 2011 to 2014 and to fall as a percentage of GDP every year. The liberal Brookings Institution argues that Obamaís budget is unrealistic in that it cuts spending too much. (In Obamaís defense, he is not cutting entitlements very much and cuts everything else to preserve them as much as possible, which from his point of view is the correct policy choice.) The presidentís spending projections are even less realistic. Between 2013 and 2023, defense spending is projected to fall by 40 percent as a share of GDP, from 4.0 percent to 2.4 percent, while non-defense discretionary programs fall by one third, from 3.7 percent to 2.5 percent. This is barely imaginable, but highly unlikely. During the past half-century, defense spending has never gone below 3 percent of GDP, not even in the years between the fall of the Soviet Union and September 11, 2001. Non-defense spending has never gone below 3.2 percent, a level it reached near the end of the Clinton administration. (During the Reagan era, it never went below 3.5 percent.) It is hard to believe Obamaís proposals would allow us either to meet our basic security needs or to afford the level of public investments that have helped sustain economic growth throughout our national history. Itís up to senior administration officials to make the case that their numbers are realistic, and theyíll face a heavy burden of proof. In short, even with substantial increases in revenues, the swelling pressure of entitlements and debt is leading our country to shortchange its future. Is that the course we want, or are we backing into it because we arenít willing to challenge the assumptions that are producing it? Before we get mired in technicalities, thatís the threshold argument we should be having. (Brookings Institution) In fiscal 2010, according to numbers published by the Census Bureau and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), net spending by all levels of government in the United States was $5,942,988,401,000. That equaled $50,074 for each one of the 118,682,000 households in the country. In that same year, according to the Census Bureau, the median household income was $49,445. That means total net government spending per household ($50,074) exceeded median household income (49,445) by $629... As recently as 2000, the relationship between government spending and household income was dramatically different. Data from the Census Bureau and the OMB show that in that year net spending by all levels of government was †3,239,913,876,000. That equaled $29,941 for each of the nationís then 108,209,000 households. In 2000, the median household income was 41,990... (A very interesting e-book called Completely Predictable) The next oldest economist joke goes like this: A businessman interviews a mathematician, an accountant, and an economist for a job. He asks them, ìWhat is 2 + 2 ?î The mathematician answers, ìExactly 4.î The accountant replies, ìDepending on what your interest, depreciation, and taxes are, approximately 2.î The economist walks over to the door, shuts and locks it, closes the blinds on the window, and leans over and softly asks, ìWhat do you want it to be?î Budget forecasts are a lot like that. A politician wants to enact a certain deficit-reduction policy. He wants to make assumptions that work to his benefit. So he calls in his friendly local economist, who obligingly responds, ìYou need 4% growth to make this work? No problem. Hereís the data and math to back up those assumptions.î The CBO is supposed to be politically neutral. And it is: those 4% projections it came up with are good for both parties. If they projected a 2% real GDP growth for the next eight years, the agency would be disbanded. And gods forbid they pull a Jeremy Grantham or (Northwestern University professor) Robert Gordon and project 1%. Or a Bill Gross, at 1.5%. With those low growth expectations, the CBOís projected budget deficits get blown sky-high, projected new expenditures seem just a tad extreme, and those tax cuts theyíre talking about will be much more difficult to budget. Government economists would like to assume a perfect world: no recessions; extraordinary, never-before-seen growth; peace, with no need to worry about nagging little military problems or defense; falling unemployment; rising tax revenues, when government spending is already taking a huge chunk out of the economy; interest rates staying under control; deficits falling over time; and on and on. It's not easy being an economist. How would you like to go through life pretending you could predict the future and even knew what M1 was all about? It is absolutely necessary that we make forecasts as part of a responsible approach to government spending, but we need to be more skeptical of those forecasts and use some common sense in our budgets in order to allow for a rainy day here and there. Liberal-socialist Sweden allows its pensions to rise and fall with GDP, so as to keep from blowing out their budget process. They made that hard choice in the midst of a credit crisis. Perhaps we too should make a hard choice now, in order to make sure we donít have a major crisis of our own. Waiting for our forecasts to be wrong before we adopt a yet another ìsolutionî based on a temporary fix of yet another forecast that turned out to be wrong is no way to run a railroad, unless you want your train running off a cliff. I applaud the recent attempts in DC to come to a solution on the deficits and budget, but where are the leaders who want to get real with those forecasts? I will be in Las Vegas as you read this, joining my doctor, Mike Roizen, at a fundraising event to benefit the Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health. The event will have Sir Michael Caine and Quincy Jones celebrating their 80th birthdays together. Born in the same year, same month, same hour, and within minutes of each other, their lives have touched multiple generations. Michael Caine is one of my favorite actors. (Dirty Rotten Scoundrels? And Secondhand Lions, with Robert Duvall, is a classic.) I have never done an event like this (with so many stars performing) where I will actually be close to the action. I have no business getting on another plane to stay at another hotel this week, but when will I ever get a chance like this again? I get back Monday to pack for my trip to Singapore. I am told the conference, sponsored by Saxo Capital Markets and The Business Times, is sold out.† I will get to be with old friends Grant Williams (You know him from Things That Make You Go HmmmÖ and Bullís Eye Investor), his partner Steve Diggle, and Simon Hunt, who is a go-to source on China. I hope to get to Malaysia with Grant for a side trip, just for fun, one of the days I am there. As a quick aside, and apropos of our theme of distinguishing the real from the fake, I did a recent video conversation with Grant that I really want to show you. Our publisher, Ed DíAgostino, was there to ask us just the right questions, and we developed some themes that turned out to be a bit surprising, even to us. You can drop in on the conversation here. John Mauldin I leave Singapore Friday evening, only to stop in San Francisco to do a speech on Monday for the National Association of Surety Bond Producers annual meeting, before heading back home to rest up. The next week I go to Carlsbad for my 10th annual Strategic Investment Conference (ably run and co-hosted by my partners at Altegris Investments), May 1-3. We have been doing a lot of planning for this one and have worked hard to make sure there will be a lot of interaction among the speakers on the stage and with the attendees. We managed to free up a few more spots this past week, so if you havenít registered, this may be your last chance. It WILL sell out. To see the lineup that I think will make this the best investment conference this year, go to http://www.altegris.com/sic . I have spent time recently on the phone or face to face with most of our speakers (I was with Nouriel on Wednesday). David Rosenberg has a completely new presentation and theme for this conference. Kyle Bass and Louis Gave will offer up ways to play Japan. Interest rates? Why not hear from the guys who have been right for decades? Managers who run billions and have done so successfully, across the entire gamut of market environments. Have questions about QE in the global environment? (Forget whether QE was right or wrong: what will they do about it now?) France? Italy? England? China? Weíll cover all that and much more. I am making progress on getting the new apartment squared away. The home owners association of the building approved the plans today, so now we turn to the bankers to get the deal actually papered. It is time-consuming but rather fun. I have never designed a place for me before, but rather just took what was there. Getting the ìnew mediaî features right is a priority for my kids, and we are all excited about that. Blending the old and the new is a talent I am trying to cultivate. I am in a hotel only a few blocks from the high-rise where I will move later this year when construction is complete (late 3rd quarter?). I walked by it tonight while thinking about this letter. I think the energy of seeing the downtown Dallas lights will be helpful in the creative process. And I will have my writing desk and chair where I am a lot more comfortable, with a great gym a short elevator ride below. It is late and I need to hit the send button. Harking back to our story about the economist and the can opener, I canít just assume sleep. And I have to actually get some before I get on that plane. Have a great week. Your wanting to move in already analyst, John Mauldin subscribers@mauldineconomics.com
APRussia has published the names of 18 U.S. citizens who are barred from Russia. The names on the list include those alleged to have been involved in the use of torture at Guantanamo bay, and others believed to have been involved in the abuse of Russian citizens' humans rights. According to the BBC there is a "secret section" of the list with more names. Russia's announcement appears to be a clear retaliation for the U.S. treasury announcing the names on the so-called "Magnitsky List" yesterday. Sergei Magnitsky was a Moscow-based lawyer for investment fund, Hermitage Capital, who became notorious after allegedly uncovering massive tax fraud. He died under suspicious circumstances while serving jail time in 2009. 16 of the 18 names on the U.S. list are related to his case. Those on the U.S. list will face visa bans and have assets frozen under the law. While many observers were surprised at lack of high-ranking Russian officials on the Magnitsky List, Russia's quick response shows how seriously they are taking it. When plans for the list were confirmed in December, Russia responded quickly by banning the adoption of Russian orphans by American families. Here's the full list of names on the Russian list, via Reuters: Individuals alleged to be involved in the use and legalization of torture and indefinite confinement of prisoners - the "Guantanamo list": 1. David Spears Addington - Chief of Staff of the U.S. Vice-President Dick Cheney (2005-2009); 2. John Choon Yoo - Legal adviser at the U.S. Department of Justice (2001-2003); 3. Geoffrey D. Miller - Commander of Joint Task Force Guantanamo, which administers the U.S. military detention centers at the U.S. Guantanamo Naval Base on†Cuba†(2002-2003) 4. Jeffrey Harbeson - Commander of Joint Task Force Guantanamo (2010-2012) Individuals alleged to be involved in abuse of Russian citizens' human rights abroad: 5. Jed Saul Rakoff - U.S. District Judge for Southern District of New York; 6. Preetinder S. Bharara - U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York; 7. Michael J. Garcia - Former U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York; 8. Brendan R. McGuire - Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York; 9. Anjan S. Sahni - Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York; 10. Christian R. Everdell - Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York; 11. Jenna Minicucci Dabbs - Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York; 12. Christopher L. Lavigne - Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York; 13. Michael Max Rosensaft - Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York; 14. Louis J. Milione - Senior Special Agent of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; 15. Sam Gaye - Senior special Agent of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; 16. Robert F. Zachariasiewicz - Special Agent of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; 17. Derek S. Odney - Special Agent of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration; 18. Gregory A. Coleman - Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
Gold officially entered bear market territory on Friday, down 20% from the cycle high. Prices fell below $1,500 per ounce for the first time Since July 2011. Frank Holmes at US Global investors told Business Insider that this was being driven by contagion from Cyprus. "There appears to be more substance to contagion from Cyprus than was thought." He thinks that has compounded the seasonal effect on gold prices. "Gold prices typically fall between now and June"† he said with regard to emerging market demand for the precious metal. U.S. Global Investors While analysts have been lowering their price targets for gold, Holmes sees a "high probability" of a 15 percent rally in the next 12 months. Holmes said that whenever gold makes such big prices moves, he looks at historical price changes. A move of 2 standard deviation like we saw today, or more year-over-year, has only happened on 10 trading days or 0.4 percent of the time in the last 10 years. "The math indicates that the metal will not stay at these lows. And in this negative real interest rate environment, we believe gold will return to more normal levels." But they say past performance isn't a guarantee of future outcomes. To that he said he would be "more concerned if interest rates were above inflationary rates."
mugley / FlickrCritics of sustained easy monetary policy in the United States often cite the potential for a surge in inflation down the road. The real problem right now though, according to BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris, is actually the opposite ‚Äì disinflation (positive, but falling inflation rates). "For central banks," many of which have a 2 percent inflation target, says Harris, "this increases the pressure to maintain super-easy monetary policy." Most of the central banks across the developed world still aren't generating enough inflation to hit their targets, even though many have pinned interest rates at or close to zero. The United States, Canada, the euro area, Sweden, Switzerland, Japan, and Norway all find themselves facing this issue (the U.K. and Australia are notable exceptions). This struggle, says Harris, is behind the "shift to QE ‚Äî a less predictable and more controversial policy tool." (In 2013, a flurry of speeches by Federal Reserve governors expressed concern over the continued trajectory of quantitative easing and what it means for financial stability.) So, what's behind the disinflation? According to Harris, there are three major fundamental drivers of falling inflation rates: Harris also points out that inflation expectations point to higher inflation down the road. This, he says,¬†"reflects strengthening in central bank credibility." "However, unless economic actors have complete faith in the powers of the central bank to target inflation, anchored expectations can only slow, not stop, the fundamental drivers of inflation," writes Harris. "Today, those fundamentals continue to point to falling inflation."
The remarkable ride for Bitcoin traders continues today. The virtual currency is now trading at $115, nearly double where it was yesterday, when Bitcoin plummeted to a low of $60 following a 12-hour trading halt on the world's largest Bitcoin exchange, Mt. Gox. On Wednesday, the currency topped out at $266 after staging an incredible run from levels around $15 in January. The chart below, which goes back to April 6, shows the big crash this week and the big rebound over the last 24 hours or so. bitcoin.clarkmoody.com
[Editor's note: Tim Staermose, Sovereign Man's Chief Investment Strategist, is filling in for Simon today from Bay of Islands, New Zealand.] The wealthy have been diversifying internationally for centuries. Baron de Rothschild famously sent four of his five sons to different points of the compass: one to London, one to Paris, one to Naples, and one to Vienna. Russian oligarchs and Arab oil sheikhs have been calling London home for decades, while spending their summers partying in Ibiza, Monaco, or the south of France. Billionaire U.S. hedge fund manager, Julian Robertson, the founder of Tiger Asset Management, meanwhile, has chosen New Zealand as a place to hang out, and a safe parking spot for part of his vast fortune. I had the pleasure of visiting his stunning Kauri Cliffs Lodge the other day. Breathtaking is the only way to describe it. Originally all a sheep farm, this 6,000 acre piece of cliff-top, ocean-view property at the top of New Zealandís North Island has been partly transformed into a luxury lodge and spa, with a spectacular golf course, consistently ranked among the top 100 in the world. But you donít need to be a billionaire to buy a beautiful hideaway in this part of the world. Up the road a little way is a 27 hectare property with a modern 4 bedroom / 2 bathroom home advertised at NZ$795,000. In the little township of Whangaroa Harbour, I saw at least half a dozen places for sale ó all with stunning ocean views. The market is soft, and it seemed that with a bit of patience, and some hardball negotiating skills, one could pick up a real bargain. The climate up here is pleasant. Technically, itís ìsub-tropical,î and there are pockets of rainforest. Winters are very mild compared to the south of the country. Itís very green. Even though thereís supposedly been a drought this year, the dairy pastures ó which are EVERYWHERE ó are still lush. † For the right person, this place could easily make an ideal second home, or pleasant bolt hole to escape to in case all hell breaks lose in North America and Europe. But, even if you have nothing to your name and are just starting out in life, I think New Zealand has a lot to offer. The economy here is based predominantly on agriculture, with an emphasis on dairy farming. And New Zealand is rapidly becoming Chinaís milk supplier of choice. During this week, New Zealandís Prime Minister, John Key, was in China cementing the long-term future of the countryís relationship with Beijing. New Zealandís dairy conglomerate, Fonterra, is also investing heavily in China, and it seems the Chinese are very keen to have them. The owner of the bed &amp; breakfast I stayed at said heíd owned two dairy farms in his time. He said land values remain good, and that the long-term prospects are bright. The industry is changing though. Small mom and pop operations with 150 cows, which were the norm last generation, have given way to larger operations, with herds typically numbering 1,000+. The business has become more scientific. And there is great demand for young people with agricultural science degrees. Like elsewhere in the world, far too few people in New Zealand have chosen to study agriculture over the past 20 or 30 years. A young, ambitious person open to relocating to New Zealand could do a lot worse. As Jim Rogers says, in 20 yearsí time, it wonít be bankers and brokers driving Maseratis, but farmers instead. Until next time, Tim Staermose, Chief Investment Strategist Sovereign Man Read more posts on Sovereign Man ª
