REUTERS/China Here's more evidence of a medium-term recovery in China. The official PMI reading for August has risen to 51.0, vs. 50.3 last month, and 50.6 expected (via ForexLive). Chinese growth has been underwhelming this year, but the last couple of months have seen somewhat better data, which makes a "hard landing seem a bit less likely." The Markit HSBC PMI will be released Sunday evening, so the markets can get a second opinion on the recovery.
But the retailer has fallen on hard times, and today executives reported that sales are down 10%.¬† A myriad of bad decisions led to Abercrombie's status as a struggling retailer today, Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital, told us.¬† Sozzi shared a few reasons why Abercrombie is struggling.¬† 1. Competition from H&amp;M and Forever 21. These retailers' offerings are cheaper and trendier than the designs found at Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, Sozzi told us. "Abercrombie is no longer the only place in the mall for teens to get stuff to wear to school," he said.¬† 2. Teen values have shifted. "In 1999, we all wanted to fit in, but in 2013 it's about showing your identity by wearing unique accessories or clothes no one else has," Sozzi said. Other retailers like Urban Outfitters' Free People have gotten teens to spend full-price by offering more unique items, he said. But Abercrombie is perceived as boring.¬† 3. Abercrombie's clothes are too expensive. Abercrombie and competitor American Eagle "are simply not perceived by parents as offering the best bang for their buck," Sozzi said. Online shopping and apps have made shoppers more price-conscious than ever, making this trend likely to continue even as the economy improves.¬† So what can Abercrombie do to recover?¬† Offer more promotions to get people in stores and convert new customers, Sozzi says.¬† Abercrombie CEO Michael Jeffries outlined a similar strategy when he spoke with investors earlier today.¬† He also said the company will start opening outlets.¬†
NBC ScreenshotPresident Barack Obama announced Saturday that he wants to launch a military strike on Syria, but he announced that he will seek Congressional authorization after Congress comes back from vacation on Sept. 9. But it's not obvious that Congress will grant said authorization. One informed congressional observer tells Business Insider that the support will be there in the Senate but the House looks very iffy: Senate should be ok to pass. But the House vote seems very difficult. Think about all of those House GOP members that want to avoid tough votes on the [continuing resolution], debt ceiling, farm bill, and immigration. They were trying to avoid these votes for their primaries and don't seem convinced an attack would be particularly useful. Now they have an even tougher vote in front of them coupled with the anti-war Dems. This is TARP on steroids. And remember how the Iraq votes realigned politics (ie Hillary vote to authorize which ultimately changed the dynamics in the Dem primary five years later).¬† Basically, if you're a member of the House, in either party, it's a lot easier to come up with good political reasons to vote "no" on attacking Syria than "yes." Democrats: In the current political environment, they have little reason to think voting against an attack will make them look "soft on terror," which is what they were most afraid of during the Iraq authorization vote 10 years ago. But they have good reason to fear the Hillary example: voting yes could cost them a primary election if things go wrong. Republicans: War hawks are a far weaker force in GOP politics than they were 10 years ago. You don't have to be Ron Paul to defend a skeptical position on intervention anymore. And it's not that hard to make a case to a Republican primary electorate for why you opposed one of Barack Obama's initiatives. That said, a very large share of members of the House are probably genuinely undecided right now on how to vote. The same observer noted that most public statements from members of Congress so far have been pointedly non-committal. Members have focused their comments on the importance of consulting with Congress or seeking a congressional vote; they have avoided commenting on where they actually stand on an attack itself. Sen. Marco Rubio's (R-Fla.) statement is a perfect example: somehow, he finds a way to spend several hundred words lambasting the president's handling of the Syrian situation without actually taking a position on what should be done. Does Rubio even know how Rubio will vote? If he and many other members have really not made up their minds yet, then the president has a shot to get authorization for his attack. But he's going to have to overcome unfavorable political terrain to do it.
There are so many potential risks out there: Syria... Debt ceiling... Fed tapering... Fed nomination... Add them up together, and investor John Hussman says it's chilling how vulnerable investors are right now. He just tweeted: Despite short-term possibilities and uncertainties, it's chilling how vulnerable investors have left themselves. pic.twitter.com/UQtv4ZQq3f
Markus Schreiber / Associated Press You should really appreciate this three-day holiday weekend if you have one, because September is shaping up to be HUGE. This afternoon we got the stunning news that Obama will seek Congressional authorization before striking Syria. A strike on Syria had been seen as imminent, so this seriously sets the calendar back, and creates a whole new story which is the vote in Congress on the Syria action. Congress gets back Sept. 9 (though, theoretically it could be called back before then), so this is going to be a long, developing story on a huge vote. This comes on top of a whole bunch of other developments coming out of Washington: Oh, and September is historically the worst month for the stock market. So yes, HUGE month coming up.
NBC Screenshot President Barack Obama said Saturday that the United States "should" take military action in Syria, but that he would seek approval for such action from Congress. "I will seek authorization for the use of force from the American people's representatives in Congress," Obama said in a statement at the Rose Garden. Obama said he is "ready to act," and he is challenging Congress to follow his lead. He maintained that he does not need to seek military approval, repeatedly citing the atrocity of the Assad regime's use of chemical weapons on its own people. "We lead with the belief that right makes might. Not the other way around," Obama said. "Now's the time to show the world that America keeps our commitments." It was unclear, immediately, as to whether Congress would return immediately from its recess. Congress is not scheduled to be in session until Sept. 9. Obama is scheduled to hold various conference calls and briefings with members of Congress over the next two days. The limited strike without "boots on the ground" would not be time-sensitive. It could happen†"tomorrow, one week, or a month from now," he said. Obama's comments follow a stern statement yesterday from Secretary of State John Kerry about the need for the "murderer" and "thug" Assad to be punished for the chemical weapons attacks on his own people. For more than two years, the Obama administration has called for a regime change in Syria. But it didn't support any military action until the latest chemical-weapons attack, which the U.S. says came from the Assad regime and killed 1,429 people, including 426 children. The White House also released a declassified report Friday†detailing with "high confidence" the assessment that the Assad regime†used chemical weapons against its people. "We intercepted†communications involving a senior official intimately familiar with the offensive who confirmed†that chemical weapons were used by the regime on August 21 and was concerned with the U.N.inspectors obtaining evidence," the report read. Despite Obama's insistence on action, he had faced growing calls for restraint from allies and members of Congress. On Thursday, the British House of Commons unexpectedly rejected Prime Minister David Cameron's†motion for military action.
Probably just about every time you've talked about buying an individualstock, especially a large†investment. The reason why this advice is common is because if you invest a large amount in one†stock, what happens if the company declares†bankruptcyor the price drops dramatically? You could be out a†lot†of†money†-- whereas if you're invested in amutual fund, you are invested in a†lot†of companies that are selected by a professional mutual fund manager. Thus, there's less likelihood of you losing everything. However, this rule doesn't necessarily apply to†bonds. You can actually be making a mistake by notinvesting†in individual municipal†bonds. Leslie Beck, a†bond†expert based in Palo Alto, California, explains why: 1.†Fund†Bond†Values Can DropWhen you own an individual†bond, you generally get your†money†back when the bond hits its†maturity date. In the meantime, you earn interest. If you buy†bonds†in†funds, most bond funds do notguarantee†principal†return. The reason is you're buying†shares†of†bonds.†Bonds†are continually added and sold within the†fund's portfolio. This means low-interest earning†bonds†can lose†principalbecause they're not worth as much when interest rates rise, and they can be sold before hitting theirmaturity†dates in bond funds. Beck says she expects interest rates to rise over the next five years.†2.†Municipal Bonds†Are Relatively SafeThe interest rate earned is the†income†Beck's clients get from the bond. The municipal bonds she chooses earn interest†tax free†-- a big bonus if you live in a state such as California or New York with a high†income tax†rate. You aren't guaranteed the interest rate as you would be with an individual bond. Granted, with interest rates the way they are, this isn't a big concern. But when they rise it†willbe. Caution: Municipal bonds are generally only tax-free if purchased from your own state.3. Municipal Bonds†Offer†More Choice On†Investment†LengthYou don't want to get stuck in a long-term†bond fund†or individual bond if interest rates change. For her clients, Beck generally recommends the following based on length of time for her clients: "When rates are rising, you want to stay in the short to intermediate range. Right now, I would buy one to five years," she says. "When rates rise above 3% for that range, I†will†probably extend to seven years, and if I can get 4% or higher, move to 10 years."The Exception...If you can get into a special kind of†municipal bond fund†where the interest rate is frozen for the length of the†investment, that is not a bad deal. You're diversified among†multiple†bonds†while also securing your†principal†and interest rate. The municipal bonds within the†fund†do not change, getting bought or sold, throughout the†term†of the investment.The†Investing†Answer:†Investing†in individual municipal bonds should only be done with an†advisorwho understands this type of investment. Because of the complexity of this type of investment, "Mostfinancial advisors†have to rely on mutual funds to invest in municipal bonds," says Beck, who has bought individual municipal bonds since 1987, she says. You're trusting an†advisor†to both pickbonds†for you as well as create a†diversification†strategy. Ask†advisors†about their experience before you buy municipal bonds through them.† P.S.†How are ordinary investors generating a second income month after month and year after year? In short, it's thanks to a new approach to investing. It's a discovery I call†"The Dividend Trifecta,"†and it's helping thousands of regular people live the life they want without the worries of a volatile stock market.†Find out about this amazing strategy here.
The fascination with the decline of JCPenney obscures a much bigger retail story: The traditional "department story" is in a seemingly endless death spiral. This story is driven home in two simple charts. First, check out this one from Citi, which breaks retail sales down into the various component parts. You can see that for June and July, no category tanked the way department stores did. Citi This next chart shows the real big picture, which truly shows the death spiral. Department store sales have been falling all century, and are now almost back to where they were in 1992. FRED JC Penney is just a small story in what really is the total collapse of a formerly common way people shopped.
We've been writing a lot about India lately, because the rupee is in free fall, as the country faces a deteriorating balance of payments situation, while the government produces policies that are likely to exacerbate inflation and the deficit. One chart really stands out though, and that's the rate of growth, which has collapsed. Here's a 20-year look a GDP growth (via TradingEconomics.com) which shows how slow things are getting. TradingEconomics.com In just a few years, it's gone from nearly 10% growth to close to the lowest level in 20 years. And it's expected to get worse: India and Indonesia have remained in the eye of the EM storm over the last week. India‚Äôs situation is now approaching a full-blown crisis, with timid policy action continuing to compound a fraught and delicate situation. With more pro-cyclical tightening looking inevitable and the economy already slowing hard, we have cut back our estimates for Indian GDP growth to 3.7% in FY2014. This is not only easily the lowest in the market but would be the slowest growth in twenty years. While a decision to allow state-owned oil companies to temporarily borrow USD from RBI brought temporary relief to the INR after its more than 4% slump on the 28th, risks to the currency remained skewed to the downside. Our primary fear is that, with the scale of the likely slowdown this year not fully priced in, long-term equity capital could exit, prompting another leg down in the currency.
Wikimedia CommonsOne of the more common beliefs about the U.S. labor market is that small businesses are the engine of job creation. But in a new 10-page research note on the impact of small business on jobs, Goldman Sachs' economist Kris Dawsey argues that's not accurate. In one paragraph, he explains why size doesn't matter. Rather, age does. ...recent research indicates the conventional wisdom that small businesses are responsible for all or most net job growth is not correct. For example, Haltiwanger et al. (2010) find that after controlling for firm age, there is no systematic relationship between net job growth and firm size. They find that historically the most important contributor to whether a firm grows or not is its age, rather than its size. The process of young firms (which do tend to start out small) growing into larger firms is the true contributor to job growth. Others such as Hurst and Pugsley (2011) back up this finding, noting that the vast majority of small firms start small and do not grow significantly. Furthermore, small firms are disproportionately concentrated in areas of the economy that tend to have lower productivity growth, including doctors‚Äô offices, small shopkeepers, restaurants, the building trades, etc. That's very intuitive. Check out Dawsey's chart: Goldman Sachs Unfortunately, that doesn't address the fact that small business creation is lagging. The stats are very clear and they are undisputed. But Dawsey explains: ...the underperformance of small business in the current business cycle can be largely traced back to the unique character of this business cycle relative to past cycles in terms of the composition of job losses. Construction employment declined more sharply relative to its peak‚Äïboth on an absolute and proportional basis‚Äïthan employment in any other major industry group. Furthermore, construction employment has regained only a small fraction of the jobs lost during the past recession. Because employment within the construction industry is disproportionately geared toward small firms, and because the share of employment in the construction industry among large firms is the lowest of any industry (Exhibit 3), the idiosyncratic poor performance of the construction sector goes a long way toward explaining the poor performance of small business employment more broadly. In other words, the question is not why has small business employment done so poorly since its peak, but rather why has construction employment done so poorly since its peak‚Äïa question that we can answer much more readily in light of the collapse of the housing bubble starting in 2006. Our rough calculations suggest that roughly all of the ‚Äúmissing jobs‚Äù in the small business sector (on a net basis) can be accounted for by the decline in employment among small firms in the construction industry. Here's Dawsey's chart: Goldman Sachs Despite all of this, Dawsey communicates the house view that job creation will continue. "Although there are risks posed by the low rate of new firm creation in recent years, our outlook for job growth remains broadly positive," he wrote. "Nonetheless, under our forecast, the labor market will take a number of years to normalize, with the unemployment rate likely falling back to a more normal level by around 2017." Next Friday, we'll get the August jobs report. Goldman expects payrolls grew by 200,000.
AP ImagesIt's no secret that Citi's top chartist Tom Fitzpatrick is bullish on Gold. Earlier this week he reiterated his call that the yellow metal would head to $3,500 in a few years. Fitzpatrick offered more color in some follow-up commentary published in King World News. He employs his analogy of the "stairway to hell" which tracks the debt ceiling. The recent ìsqueeze in Goldî has sent it significantly below this ìstairway to hellî chart (Debt limit) which has continued higher.† As we said earlier, we do not believe that this fall in Gold will be sustainable and expect new highs in the trend eventually.† As we also said, we have retained a long-term target of about $3,500 for some time on this Gold price based on a comparison of this period and that seen in the 1970ís.... ìAs we headed towards the last Presidential election there was a considered view in the markets that by the end of President Obamaís 2nd term the debt limit could be as high as $22 trillion.† Then we got the sequester, a more rosy economic outlook, tapering talk and all this has been forgotten.† For how long?† The market dynamics above combined with the change of leadership at the Fed may well be ìresurrecting that thought.î† If so, our 2nd favorite Gold chart comes into play.  Fitzpatrick thinks that $22 trillion debt limit will come within three years, which is when we could see $3,500 gold. "As we continue to spend more than we earn and shift that liability to the next generation, Gold has shown itself to be a very effective hedge against that policy," he said.  "We firmly believe that the Gold correction has ìrun its courseî and that much higher levels will be seen in the years ahead.î Citi via King World News
REUTERS/Beawiharta Rising rates should be good for a currency. At least that's the theory. And those who believe it have been disappointed in the last few years, because just the opposite has been true. Since the financial crisis, both the dollar and treasuries have been viewed as "risk-off" assets. When it felt as though the next Eurozone country was about to fail, investors bought treasuries and the dollar. Each dollar rally would typically coincide with stronger treasury prices and lower rates. The dollar-to-interest-rate correlation became more negative as things in Europe became more uncertain. The correlation hit its lowest level (most negative) after Italy's ability to fund its government and the whole of EMU's future was brought into question in late 2011. But recently we've had what some refer to as a "regime change". Treasuries to some extent lost their status as a "risk-off" asset (see post). The correlation between the dollar and interest rates suddenly flipped into positive territory, which is more in line with the traditional way of thinking about the relationship. In fact the correlation hit its highest level in nearly a decade. US rates recently became the "risk driver" of other asset classes.  This regime change plays havoc with many common risk models that banks and even some asset management firms run. These models often drive trading limits, counterparty potential exposure measurements, and bank regulatory capital. The calculations tend to rely on historical relationships - sometimes over a period covering the previous two years (as prescribed by the Basel rules). At this point however some of these models are all but meaningless, as correlations among major asset classes have flipped. Yet these measures continue to be broadly used, with regulators encouraging or even requiring this practice. So the next time you see a "value at risk" measure, ask the author how she/he addressed the recent regime change in the markets. The answer may surprise¬†you.
Note from dshort: This commentary has been revised to include the today's Real Personal Income less Transfer Payments for July. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are:  I've now updated this commentary to include today's release of the July Real Personal Income less Transfer Payments. As the adjacent thumbnail illustrates, final months of 2012 saw some 2013 income pulled forward as a tax-management strategy, which accounts for the atypical peak and subsequent trough in this series. However, we now have enough data points to see the general trend since early 2012 despite the anomaly. PI less TP has been growing at an excruciatingly slow pace. In July Personal Income rose only 0.1%. If we exclude Transfer Payments (Social Security, Unemployment Compensation, Medicare, Medicaid, etc.), it rose 0.08%. If we adjust for inflation using the PCE Price Index, the month-over-month change is a negative 0.01% and a mere 1.8% year-over-year. ¬† The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the Big Four and simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the percent cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. The latest data points are for the 49th month. In addition to the four indicators, I've included an average of the four, which, as we can see, was influenced by the anomaly in the Personal Income data points, which reflect 2012 year-end income increases, at the expense of early 2013, as a tax management strategy. The overall picture of the US economy remains one of exasperatingly slow recovery from the Great Recession. As we can see in the illustration of the average of the Big Four off its all-time high since 2007, the rate of post-trough growth has been slower since February of 2012, although the end-of-year tax-strategy has obscured overall trend slope over the past 18 months. The flatline today's PI less TP data obviously adds to the frustration. ¬† My next update will be on September 6th when we get the Nonfarm Employment numbers in the August jobs report. The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique. Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries). ¬† ¬† The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively). ¬† ¬† And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income. ¬† ¬† History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators. ¬† ¬† The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919. The log scale of the first chart is particularly useful in showing the correlation between this indicator and early 20th century recessions. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS). ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) spliced with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that was date mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This indicator is a splice of two seasonally adjusted series tracked by the BEA. The 1967-1996 component is SIC (Standard Industrial Classification) based and the 1997-present is NAICS (North American Industry Classification System) based. The data are available from the BEA website. See Section 0 - Real Inventories and Sales and look for Tables 2AU and 2BU. The FRED economists use the Real Retail Sales above for their four-pack. However, ECRI appears to use this series as their key indicator for sales. Note that the Manufacturing and Trade Sales data is updated monthly with the BEA's Personal Consumption and Expenditures release, but the numbers lag by one month from the other PCE data. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬†  Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart.
