There's no doubt you've seen this chart before. It shows that the Labor Force Participation Rate is at its lowest level in decades. FRED Some people say that this chart represents throngs of workers who have "dropped out" of the workforce because jobs are hard to come by. Others point to changing demographics and societal trends, including the graying of the population (older people are less likely to work) and the fact that young people are going to college more and more. But neither of those trends is totally satisfactory, because the Labor Force Participation Rate is falling for prime-age workers who are neither retiring nor likely to be in college.  On this point, Bill McBride at Calculated Risk posts this chart of the Labor Force Participation Rate for prime-working aged men. Calculated Risk As you can see, the decline in the Labor Force Participation Rate in this demographic has been declining for about four decades. It's really hard to look at this chart, and think that the recession changed the story much. Obviously, there are other big trends (cultural, technological perhaps?) that are behind the decline in this demographic. And any explanation that doesn't account for the multi-decade trend falls flat. McBride notes that he made the chart men-only for the sake of simplicity: The basic idea, presumably, is that for most of the above time period up until recently, the Labor Force Participation Rate among women rose significantly for well-known cultural reasons. By isolating men you see there's some other longstanding force out there that's reducing the number of men who are inclined to work. FREE AppDownload
APWhat's the best time to get to the airport? It depends on how much you hate waiting around an airport, and how willing you are to risk missing your flight. However, if you've never missed a flight, you're probably showing up too early. University of Wisconsin mathematician Jordan Ellenberg explores this problem and many others in his wonderful new book titled "How Not To Be Wrong: The Power Of Mathematical Thinking", a collection of fascinating examples of math and its surprising applications. Here's a summary of Ellenberg's explanation of the airport arrival time problem. The issue comes down to expected utility. Utility is an economic concept used to analyze the costs and benefits of different goods and services for different people. The idea of utility is to try to put some kind of quantitative value on how useful something is to a particular person, giving us the ability to analyze that person's choices. Figuring out when to go to the airport involves a tradeoff: the earlier you show up, the more likely you are to actually make your flight. But, showing up early also involves a cost in the form of time spent at the airport rather than elsewhere. The idea of utility lets us try to quantify this. Say each hour at the airport costs you 10 "utils", or units of utility, and missing your flight costs 50 utils. In other words, missing your flight is about five times as annoying to you as the accumulated nuisance of spending an hour at the airport. We also know that you're more likely to miss your flight the later you show up. Let's say that if you show up a half hour early, you have a 20% chance of missing your flight, an hour early gives a 5% chance, and two hours early leaves you just a 1% chance of missing the flight. This lets us figure out what your expected utility loss is going to be depending on when you show up at the airport. Expected values are a useful tool for analyzing something probabilistic, giving us a kind of average value of the outcome. Say you show up at the airport an hour early. We have two costs to compute: the utility loss from waiting at the airport, and the expected value of the utility loss from maybe missing your plane. The loss from your waiting time is just 10 utils, as we assumed above. The expected loss from missing your flight is the probability of missing the flight times the utility loss from missing the flight. If you're at the airport an hour early, you have a 5% chance of missing the flight, and this would cost 50 utils. So, the expected loss is 5% × 50 = 2.5 utils. Putting those together, we get a total expected utility cost of 12.5 utils from showing up an hour early. Now, if you get to the airport two hours early, you lose 20 utils from your waiting time, but the expected loss from missing the plane is just 1% × 50 = 0.5, for a total expected loss of 20.5 utils. This is a much worse expected loss than getting to the airport an hour early. Even though the odds of missing your flight drop quite a bit, the extra time stuck in the airport creates a cost that outweighs the benefit of those reduced odds. You're better off taking that slightly higher risk of missing your flight. Of course, if you cut it too close, the risk of missing the flight can dominate. If you show up at the airport a half hour before your flight, you only lose 5 utils from waiting, but with a 20% chance of missing your flight, you get 20% × 50 = 10 utils of expected loss from the risk, giving a total expected loss of 15 utils, worse than showing up an hour early. This variation among expected utility losses indicates that there is some particular airport arrival time for which the risk of missing your flight and the misery of sitting in an airport bar balance out and you minimize your expected loss. Shannon Stapleton/ReutersNaturally, that exact time is going to vary from person to person, depending on each individual's idiosyncratic utility function. For example, I don't mind sitting around the airport and reading Twitter overly much, but I absolutely hate missing flights, so my ideal time to arrive at the airport might be earlier than someone who despises the airport but is fine with missing the occasional plane. Regardless of the exact amount of risk of missing a flight a person is willing to take, that risk will always be greater than zero. So, at your ideal, utility maximizing time, if you take enough flights, you should miss one sooner or later. If you haven't ever missed a plane, then you're likely not arriving at your ideal time.  As the economist George Sigler put it, as quoted in the book by Ellenberg, "If you never miss the plane, you're spending too much time at airports." This type of expected utility analysis is a foundational idea in economics. Many models are based on the idea of a person trying to maximize their utility. "How Not To Be Wrong" is full of interesting and weird mathematical tools and observations, and if you liked this, you should check it out. (Via News.com.au) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuriko Nakao The weekend is over and stocks in Asia are up. Japan's Nikkei opened Monday trading 0.8% higher. Korea's Kospi climbed 0.5%. U.S. futures are down. The first half of the week will be pretty quiet as far as data, but we pick up steam Thursday and Friday with some important price surveys. Click here for our full preview » FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley Macro Boring, Yields Roaring is the title of Morgan Stanley's latest Global Strategy Outlook, and it's pretty much the perfect encapsulation of where Wall Street sees markets going these days. What it basically means is, the economy and the market will keep humming along, growing, rising, etc. while the recent decline in government bond yields will turn around and start to spike. To back up for a moment, this market is essentially defined by three broad themes which can be expressed in three simple charts. The first is the S&amp;P 500, which represents risk appetite. Stocks are at all-time highs, and though there have been a few hiccups, markets impressively push higher. An important note is that the S&amp;P 500 is just one of many markets that's been on a tear. From Europe to India, new highs are being made all over the place as investors snap up risk. FRED The next chart is the yield on the 10-year bond. Despite concerns about Fed tightening, an accelerating economy, and constant Wall Street yammering about how "interest rates have nowhere to go but up" yields remain very low, and have actually fallen so far in 2014. And again, the 10-year chart is a proxy for a story that is global: Yields everywhere have been falling aggressively, including peripheral Europe. FRED And the final chart we'll show is the VIX, which is a measure of volatility in the stock market. It's basically at all-time lows, which again mirrors a global phenomenon. Whether we're talking about interest rates or currencies, markets are incredibly un-volatile. FRED So this is our market. Risk being bought, interest rates very low, and almost no volatility to speak of anywhere. The outlook from Wall Street is (and Morgan Stanley is basically the most succinct at expressing it): The good times will continue to roll for awhile, but interest rates are unsustainably low and government bond yields will shoot higher as it becomes more clear that the economy is firming and the Fed will hike rates at some point. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/dombrasseySummer internship season is upon us once again. Wall Street, as a culture and as a career path, continues to be vilified and painted as an odious, unfulfilling, waste of time. But is that entirely fair? It may be true that Wall Street is no longer the default destination of our best, brightest, and most ambitious — this year, “only” 30% of Harvard seniors are heading to positions in finance or consulting, down from nearly 50% pre-crisis.The oft-satirical nature of @GSElevator aside, in terms of illuminating questionable or unsavory aspects of investment banking culture, an internship on Wall Street is still a phenomenal place to begin any career. These firms invest a significant amount of resources in developing and training prospective analysts, providing them with guidance and mentorship, and exposing them to some of the most aggressive, motivated, and intelligent people on the planet.Irrespective of what eventual career path you choose, there’s a lot to be said for cutting your teeth for a summer on Wall Street – if only for the experience of three well-paid months living in New York City.   Even if you want to end up in Silicon Valley, getting an offer from a Wall Street bank is a great tool to leverage and facilitate these opportunities. After all, there’s another important statistic. 30%.  That’s the number of Millennials who still live with their parents.  So, for the sake of your future, I have updated last year’s list to provide you with all the knowledge you need to turn any internship (not just on Wall Street) into a full-time position: 1. People love to talk about themselves, so ask questions that get them in their comfort zone. A big part of your first impression is how you make people feel about themselves. 2. If your boss smokes, smoke. 3. Keep your shoes shiny, but don’t let anyone see you having your shoes shined. You have to earn it. 4. Buy at least three decent suits. Keep it simple; if a suit has too much flair, the only thing people will notice is how often you wear it. 5. Forget about Wolf of Wall Street; double-breasted suits are not back. 6. Don’t wear Hermes ties. You have to earn it. 7. Don’t wear a tie unless you have to. And learn how to tie a decent Windsor knot. 8. Shut up about where you go to college. Decent credentials are a given. 9. As it relates to fellow interns, make no mistake about it – it’s war: 10. If you are exchanging “stock tips” with friends at other banks, use the app Cyber Dust (Mark Cuban’s text version of SnapChat). #NotSponsored 11. Show some leadership by organizing drinks and nights out with fellow interns; get them wasted, especially in the presence of senior colleagues. 12. Do the coffee runs. It shows confidence. Just don’t screw it up. If you can’t be trusted with coffee, how can you sell bonds or manage risk. 13. Sure, “be proactive” and “show initiative,” but don’t let that exuberance make someone else’s life harder in the process. 14. Leave a jacket on the back of your chair. While you are at it, keep a tie rolled up in your drawer.  15. Ask the secretary for the travel schedules of the senior members of the team for the week ahead. She thinks you are being proactive, but now you know when you can sleep in, hit the gym, or beat the traffic to the Hamptons. 16. Never tell the first [offensive] joke, but always have a good one saved up for when your seniors finally trust you enough to share one with you.  17. Don’t brag about being a decent golfer. This should be a given. 18. Don’t offer to buy drinks when out with your seniors; you can’t afford them and it won’t score any points. 19. Sleep with a fellow intern. If your seniors haven’t ever done it, they’ve always wanted to. They’ll respect you for it, and you’ll always be the guy that hit it first, before she ends up marrying that a-hole MD in Emerging Markets.  20. An MDs jokes are always funny. Period. And if you are at the receiving end of a joke, laugh with it. If you take yourself too seriously, no one else will. This is Wall Street; there is no such thing as ‘bullying’. 21. Acknowledge the Caddyshack and Fletch references, but don’t make any yourself.  You have to earn it.  And don’t initiate the fist bump that comes with “Charge it to the Underhills." 22. Let your boss sent the tempo when it comes to rowdy nights out.  Don’t be afraid to join in; just make sure you’re first one in the next morning. 23. It’s okay to make a mistake or ask a question. But don’t ever ask the same question or make the same mistake twice. If you do, just know that the world needs ditch diggers too. 24. If you still want to go to Silicon Valley, be my guest. But the grass is greener on the other side because it’s fertilized with bullsh*t. John LeFevre is the creator of the @GSElevator Twitter feed and the author of the soon-to-be-released Straight To Hell: True Tales of Deviance, Debauchery, and Billion-Dollar Deals.  He was also a summer intern for Salomon Brothers… and did receive the full-time job offer. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ricardo MoraesA man rides his motorcycle along a street decorated in celebration of the upcoming World Cup in Rio de Janeiro It's a fairly quiet week in the U.S..  On Friday, we saw the U.S. economy added 217,000 nonfarm payrolls in May, while the unemployment rate held steady at 6.3%. All eyes will now turn to the retail sales report for confirmation of an economic snapback. We also have three Fed speeches on Monday. St. Louis Federal Reserve president James Bullard will speak on the economy and monetary policy in Florida. Boston Federal president, Eric Rosengreen, is slated to speak on monetary policy in Guatemala. Finally, Fed Gov. Daniel Tarullo will speak on corporate governance in Washington. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary U.S. stocks ended higher with the Dow and S&amp;P 500 hitting new record highs on Friday. "In line with the recent trend, this week’s push higher lacked a specific catalyst. However, while the macro narrative remained little changed, there were several positive dynamics at work,” according to the folks at FactSet. One of those would be the European Central Bank's historic rate cut, which made it the first major central bank to push rates into negative territory. The ECB also announced a string of easing measures.  "While there were no meaningful surprises out of this week's sell-side conferences, there seemed to be more focus on the pickup in earnings growth coming out of Q1. Strategists also continued to highlight improved earnings revision trends,” according to FactSet. Meanwhile, Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets writes that falling rates are not signaling a weaker economy. “The recent divergence between Treasury yields and stock prices has some investors nervous based on our client conversations,” writes Belski. “The predominant line of thinking is that lower rates portend softer economic growth. However, we believe these investors may be over-emphasizing the significance of the recent decoupling.” "Based on our work, periods of interest rate and stock price decoupling are fairly common and most of the time stocks “get it right.” In addition, the recent drop in rates appears to be more technical in nature from our lens given that trends in important economic indicators have improved significantly since the start of the year." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Rennett Stowe/flickr Barclays recently downgraded the entire U.S. electric utilities sector to "underweight" on the threat posed by widespread adoption of solar-storage. These systems allow homeowners to use rooftop solar panels and a battery to cut all but the figurative emergency backup cord to their local electric grid, putting a severe strain on an industry that has been a defacto monopoly.  The firm's sweeping case focused in large part on debt markets' apparent ignorance to challenge utilities are facing. We wanted to zero in on the astonishingly simple steps that makes Barclays lays out to make shaking up utilities quite possible. For the past few years, we have been quietly living through a stunning drop in prices thanks to an unintended loop of massive European subsidies and capacity overexpansion in China. As a result, from 2006 to 2013, photovoltaic panel prices dropped nearly 70%. Barclays The next step is for storage prices to fall too. Cheap storage is key so that people can have power at night, when the sun is down. Right now, the cost of such systems — about $0.22/kWh is only competitive with retail electricity in Hawaii — the cost of vanilla electricity in California is $0.15/kWh. Barclays says Tesla has single-handedly brought down the cost of batteries over the past few years, from about $1,000/kWh in 2009 to $300/kWh in early 2014. If the company's gigafactory successfully ramps up, costs could plummet.  Once the prices for everything get cheap enough, homeowners begin to leave the grid. There remains huge demand for solar, and as costs continue to fall, the price point will continue to match that sought by ever lighter hued green thumbs. This expanding scale will in turn make it more expensive to stay on the grid, bringing even more customers into the solar-storage orbit.  "...Once solar + battery approaches the retail cost of power, its advantage can scale quickly," Barclays says.  We've already seen this in Arizona, where the state's electric utility has spent more than $3 million on a campaign to discourage solar adoption in the state. California utilities also won new surcharges, and SolarCity recently charged them with slow-walking grid connections. Neither will prove more than speedbumps in the long-run, Barclays said. "While they may slow the penetration of solar, any relief they offer utilities is likely to be short lived. In Arizona, the fee increases the cost of a rooftop solar installation about 5%. With the costs of solar installations falling about 10% per year, we expect the pace of installations to recover before the end of 2014. While we need more months of data to confirm our view, this may prove to be an example of how quickly the technological/cost curve can overtake regulatory responses."  As demand for baseload generation becomes less consistent, utilities could be forced to replace aging power units earlier than scheduled with more modern and efficient "peakers." This could end up lowering utility margins, as well as bring forward cost loads.   This is the key moment: Utility companies being forced to upgrade their plants in the face of a declining customer base. That's a killer combination.  In Germany, aggressive subsidies and a move away from nuclear led to an explosion of renewables expansion. Since the beginning of 2010 (though for reasons that go beyond simply that outgrowth), Germany’s two largest utilities had stock price declines of 55-60%, compared with a near 60% gain in the DAX.  FREE AppDownload
Going to work and collecting paychecks isn't the only way to make money in America. "Since 1980, direct labor income has become a smaller share of personal income, while income from transfers has risen," write Wells Fargo economists John Silvia and Sarah Watt House. "This mix may help to stabilize consumption but also reflects altered incentives to work." Wages and salary continue to be primary source of income, but have fallen from 59% of personal income in 1980 to just 51% today. Silvia and House identify three reasons why this is happening: Silvia and House note that unfavorable labor market dynamics are also a factor. "We suspect this is a product of both demand and supply forces," they write. "On the demand side, firms have been cautious to hire given the modest and uncertain gains in final demand. In addition, as global markets continue to expand, firms are increasing their hiring abroad to serve markets there. On the supply side, the availability of transfer payments and mandated benefits have increased the reservation wage for many workers and lowered the cost of additional leisure. Moreover, an excess supply of labor relative to demand has kept wage growth muted. restraining labor income even as hiring has improved." Whatever the reasons, it's very clear that labor is playing a smaller role in the average personal income statement. Wells Fargo Securities FREE AppDownload
Rennett Stowe/flickr Barclays recently downgraded the entire U.S. electric utilities sector to "underweight" on the threat posed by widespread adoption of solar-storage. These systems allow homeowners to use rooftop solar panels and a battery to cut all but the figurative emergency backup cord to their local electric grid, putting a severe strain on an industry that has been a defacto monopoly.  The firm's sweeping case focused in large part on debt markets' apparent ignorance to challenge utilities are facing. We wanted to zero in on the astonishingly simple steps that makes Barclays lays out to make shaking up utilities quite possible. For the past few years, we have been quietly living through a stunning drop in prices thanks to an unintended loop of massive European subsidies and capacity overexpansion in China. As a result, from 2006 to 2013, photovoltaic panel prices dropped nearly 70%. Barclays The next step is for storage prices to fall too. Cheap storage is key so that people can have power at night, when the sun is down. Right now, the cost of such systems — about $0.22/kWh is only competitive with retail electricity in Hawaii — the cost of vanilla electricity in California is $0.15/kWh. Barclays says Tesla has single-handedly brought down the cost of batteries over the past few years, from about $1,000/kWh in 2009 to $300/kWh in early 2014. If the company's gigafactory successfully ramps up, costs could plummet.  Once the prices for everything get cheap enough, homeowners begin to leave the grid. There remains huge demand for solar, and as costs continue to fall, the price point will continue to match that sought by ever lighter hued green thumbs. This expanding scale will in turn make it more expensive to stay on the grid, bringing even more customers into the solar-storage orbit.  "...Once solar + battery approaches the retail cost of power, its advantage can scale quickly," Barclays says.  We've already seen this in Arizona, where the state's electric utility has spent more than $3 million on a campaign to discourage solar adoption in the state. California utilities also won new surcharges, and SolarCity recently charged them with slow-walking grid connections. Neither will prove more than speedbumps in the long-run, Barclays said. "While they may slow the penetration of solar, any relief they offer utilities is likely to be short lived. In Arizona, the fee increases the cost of a rooftop solar installation about 5%. With the costs of solar installations falling about 10% per year, we expect the pace of installations to recover before the end of 2014. While we need more months of data to confirm our view, this may prove to be an example of how quickly the technological/cost curve can overtake regulatory responses."  As demand for baseload generation becomes less consistent, utilities could be forced to replace aging power units earlier than scheduled with more modern and efficient "peakers." This could end up lowering utility margins, as well as bring forward cost loads.   This is the key moment: Utility companies being forced to upgrade their plants in the face of a declining customer base. That's a killer combination.  In Germany, aggressive subsidies and a move away from nuclear led to an explosion of renewables expansion. Since the beginning of 2010 (though for reasons that go beyond simply that outgrowth), Germany’s two largest utilities had stock price declines of 55-60%, compared with a near 60% gain in the DAX.  FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Steve MarcusChris Arnade received his PhD in physics from Johns Hopkins University in 1992. He spent the next 20 years working as a trader on Wall Street. He left trading in 2012 to focus on photography.  Reading the recent New York Magazine piece on Steve Cohen, the billionaire hedge-fund manager of SAC Capital, two themes emerge: he hates fame and he likes to be feared. That is not uncommon on Wall Street, where it’s better to be hated and rich than loved and famous. That is the hierarchy in the finance culture: the more important you are, the less you need to be liked, and the less you need to be seen. At the very top of the Wall Street pyramid are the billionaire hedge-fund managers like Steve Cohen, masters of the markets who are famous for not wanting fame. Their ability and desire to stay under the radar of the public is a signal of how really important they are. Garden-variety fame? That is a nasty symptom of being very wealthy that unfairly puts you in the same category as reality TV stars. Those who work on Wall Street are not that, certainly not in their minds. That sort of fame is like a skin rash that needs to be treated. And as with all things Wall Street, that treatment comes by throwing money at the problem. So Steve Cohen has attempted to buy up the rights to photographs of himself, limiting their availability. That isn’t a crazy personal tick. Many on Wall Street have a similar policy. Especially hedge-fund managers. They flee from cameras, flee from being interviewed, and certainly flee from ever being on Page Six. Unflattering news, unflattering photos, are either bought with money, or buried via legal action. The distaste of fame often morphs into outright secrecy, especially amongst the hedge-fund set. If fame is a sign of weakness then secrecy is a sign of success. True masters of the markets don’t need anyone else’s help. They can divine the secrets behind the frenzy of blips on the screen, finding the hidden order in randomness, and turning that into gold. If you think you have that secret it’s dumb to tell others about it for free. Much better to charge huge fees to share in the benefits of your special knowledge. People on TV giving investment advice? Either they are fools who don’t know anything and pretend to know it all, or they're fools who know something and are giving it away for free. Either way, fools. REUTERS/Tyrone Siu Max Reimerson (L) from J.P Morgan and Neil Bullock from Sterling Search pose during the "Hedge Fund Fight Nite" promotional event at Hong Kong's financial district September 20, 2011. If you are protecting secrets it also helps to have others fear you. In New York Magazine, he was described thusly: "On the trading floor Cohen was a voracious, unsentimental monster, working his will, conquering all he saw, and verbally thrashing any employee who made a misstep.” Steve Cohen’s alleged aggressive work behavior is standard on Wall Street. Traders often love to bully other traders. It is almost considered a perk of success. I have so much money; I know the secrets of the universe. I don’t need to bother with things like being polite. It also comes from being beaten up so often. Even the best trader loses about 45% of the time, beaten by the markets; random numbers that have no empathy. Taking that beating daily, weekly, monthly, wears on you. If you can’t beat the markets, beat the person closest to you. I know I certainly did during my Wall Street years, berating anyone who crossed my path at the wrong time. After being wrong, I needed to show somebody I could be right. Reset the ego. Masters of the markets may not want fame, but some certainly want the trappings it brings: the best tables at the best restaurants, access beyond the velvet ropes, and membership to the most exclusive clubs. So they get those things by simply buying them. Everything has a cost, and Wall Street loves to prove that. It confirms their worldview: money is the most important thing. One of my first business dinners on Wall Street was with a super-wealthy client, a man with hundreds of millions. He was at the tail-end of a long successful career. He insisted on dinner that evening at the then-new Nobu, the hottest and hardest restaurant to get into. When the salesmen explained to him it would be impossible, he laughed, “Everything is possible if you just know how much to pay.” By the restaurant’s entrance were the usual signs of an invasion of the famous, an array of idling black limos and bulky SUVs, all manned by beefy, idle Russian drivers. A cluster of plebeians, waiting hours for any table, snaked out the door. The client split the waiting crowd, went to the maître d, handed him a wad of cash, and got us the best table. Our table was surrounded by Manhattan’s famous. We were the nobodies crashing the party. It was important to him to remind us, and the waiter, that he was wrongly viewed as a nobody. He was a somebody. A somebody who knew better than to seek fame. “See them," pointing to the various movie stars around us, "they have to sign grubby scraps of papers from people who probably have tuberculosis.” He then went on to suggest we order the entire menu. Jokingly. I think. We didn’t, but it was something he was proud to have done before. Look at me – well, don't look at me too much, but recognize me and my money. Eventually, for every Wall Street trader, for every hedge-fund manager, there will come a time when it is over. A run of luck will come to an end. The secret that made them feel special will be discovered. Or the regulators will find them, breathing down their necks, challenging the secrets as being too secret, or the wrong type of secrets. The markets will win, they always do, and they are not magnanimous in victory. Then the egos will be bruised, egos built up over many years of being lauded for being able to beat the markets. Egos that haven’t needed fame or love to nurture. At that point the money is there to offer solace. After a life of secrecy, a life of fear, they can rest with their money. They can buy sports teams, or collect modern art, or become a philanthropist. They can finally buy public validation. Go on TV? Nope, that's still far too louche. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Nir EliasThe vast scale of China’s landmass and its population means that China produces and consumes copious amounts of natural resources and food. It also means that China houses a large chunk of the world’s billionaires. We dug around to find some interesting statistics. Did you know that China's railway lines could loop around earth twice? Here are some interesting facts about the world's second-largest economy, which could soon eclipse the U.S. to become the world's largest this year. FREE AppDownload
Farnam “I’m no genius. I’m smart in spots—but I stay around those spots.”— Tom Watson Sr., Founder of IBM The concept of the “Circle of Competence” has been used over the years by Warren Buffett as a way to focus investors on only operating in areas they knew best. The bones of the concept appear in his 1996 Shareholder Letter: What an investor needs is the ability to correctly evaluate selected businesses. Note that word “selected”: You don’t have to be an expert on every company, or even many. You only have to be able to evaluate companies within your circle of competence. The size of that circle is not very important; knowing its boundaries, however, is vital. It’s a simple concept: Each of us, through experience or study, has built up useful knowledge on certain areas of the world. Some areas are understood by most of us, while some areas require a lot more specialty to evaluate. For example, most of us have a basic understanding of the economics of a restaurant: You rent or buy space, spend money to outfit the place and then hire employees to seat, serve, cook, and clean. (And, if you don’t want to do it yourself, manage.) From there it’s a matter of generating enough traffic and setting the appropriate prices to generate a profit on the food and drinks you serve—after all of your operating expenses have been paid. Though the cuisine, atmosphere, and price points will vary by restaurant, they all have to follow the same economic formula. That basic knowledge, along with some understanding of accounting and a little bit of study, would enable one to evaluate and invest in any number of restaurants and restaurant chains; public or private. It’s not all that complicated. However, can most of us say we understand the workings of a micro-chip company or a biotech drug company at the same level? Perhaps not. But as Buffett put so eloquently, we do not necessarily need to understand these more esoteric areas to invest capital. Far more important is to honestly define what we do know and to stick to those areas. The circle can be widened, but only slowly and over time. Mistakes are most often made when straying from this discipline. * * * The concept applies outside of investing. Buffett describes the circle of competence of one of his business managers, a Russian immigrant with poor English who built the largest furniture store in Nebraska, thusly: I couldn’t have given her $200 million worth of Berkshire Hathaway stock when I bought the business because she doesn’t understand stock. She understands cash. She understands furniture. She understands real estate. She doesn’t understand stocks, so she doesn’t have anything to do with them. If you deal with Mrs. B in what I would call her circle of competence… She is going to buy 5,000 end tables this afternoon (if the price is right). She is going to buy 20 different carpets in odd lots, and everything else like that [snaps fingers] because she understands carpet. She wouldn’t buy 100 shares of General Motors if it was at 50 cents a share. It did not hurt Mrs. B to have such a narrow area of competence. In fact, one could argue the opposite: Her rigid devotion to that area allowed her to focus. Only with that focus could she have overcome her handicaps to achieve such extreme success. In fact, Charlie Munger takes this concept outside of business altogether and into the realm of life in general. The essential question he sought to answer: Where should we devote our limited time in life, in order to achieve the most success? Charlie’s simple prescription: You have to figure out what your own aptitudes are. If you play games where other people have the aptitudes and you don’t, you’re going to lose. And that’s as close to certain as any prediction that you can make. You have to figure out where you’ve got an edge. And you’ve got to play within your own circle of competence. If you want to be the best tennis player in the world, you may start out trying and soon find out that it’s hopeless—that other people blow right by you. However, if you want to become the best plumbing contractor in Bemidji, that is probably doable by two-thirds of you. It takes a will. It takes the intelligence. But after a while, you’d gradually know all about the plumbing business in Bemidji and master the art. That is an attainable objective, given enough discipline. And people who could never win a chess tournament or stand in center court in a respectable tennis tournament can rise quite high in life by slowly developing a circle of competence—which results partly from what they were born with and partly from what they slowly develop through work. So, the simple takeaway here is clear. If you want to improve your odds of success in life and business then define the perimeter of your circle of competence, and operate inside. Over time, work to expand that circle but never fool yourself about where it stands today, and never be afraid to say “I don’t know.” Circle of Competence is part of the Farnam Street latticework of mental models. FREE AppDownload
We just hit a big milestone with today's jobs report. We've finally recovered all of the jobs lost during the recession. We needed 113,000 jobs today to do it and easily cleared that bar with a gain of 217,000 jobs in May. Of course because of population growth, we're still "behind" in terms of total jobs, but at least this is one benchmark that's been cleared. For a long time we've been running this chart from Calculated Risk, showing how deep this jobs recession has been compared to past ones, and our nickname for it has been the Scariest Jobs Chart Ever. But that chart is now dead. We've recovered all the lost jobs. It took a preposterously long time, but this chart is over. Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
'The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo' / screenshot“CEOs need to know that everything is hackable,” cyber security expert Theresa Payton, who served as federal chief information officer for two years under President George W. Bush, told a group of small business owners on Friday. Payton, who founded consulting firm Fortalice, explained that businesses should concern themselves more with how to stop an attack that's already happening as opposed to preventing attacks. “The conversation should go more like this: ‘I don’t like it, but I know that it’s inevitable that one day we’re going to be hacked," Payton said, according to a report by John Hamlin of The Statesville Record and Landmark. "So the focus I want to have is, how quickly will we know (we’ve been hacked) and will we be able to protect our customers’ data?’” Last month, Target's CEO stepped down after 40 million customers' credit-card numbers were stolen by hackers. And a U.S.-led international operation recently disrupted a unprecedented cyber crime ring that stole banking credentials and extorted computer owners around the globe. Payton attributed two-thirds of all security breaches to human error. For example, cyber thieves recently took data on 145 mullion eBay customers by hacking three corporate employees. “There’s no patch for human stupidity,” she said, adding that companies need to cultivate a culture of cyber security by emphasizing the risk to the individual, their families, and society at large. “Every dollar that we keep out of a cyber criminal’s pocket is a dollar less they have to fund human trafficking, terrorism, gun-running, illegal drugs and whatever other evil going on in the world,” Payton said. “We’ve got to band together to fight evil.” h/t @AllThingsHLS FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Matt BrownBritain is on track for a record year for flotations as companies press ahead with initial public offerings (IPOs) despite signs of investor fatigue. So far this year, 40 companies have raised £5.7bn after the market for new shares went into overdrive following years in the doldrums, figures supplied by Thomson Reuters show. The total for 2014 so far easily outstrips the previous £4.9bn record for the same period in 2007 and the £2.9bn equivalent in 2006, which went on to be the all-time biggest year for flotations. At the previous full-year market peak in 2006, 134 companies raised £12.1bn. The total fell to £10.7bn the following year and then plunged to £505m in 2008 as the financial crisis hit its peak. Year-to-date figures for 2014 do not include Lloyds Banking Group's flotation of its TSB business. The bank is expected to publish the prospectus for the long-awaited IPO on Monday. The sale was forced on Lloyds by the European Union after the UK government waived competition concerns to let Lloyds rescue HBOS in early 2009. TSB is expected to be sold below book value in an attempt to entice buyers and the sale of the first tranche of 25% of the shares is likely to value the business at between £1.12 and £1.44bn – between 0.7 and 0.9 times its book value. Detailed figures in the prospectus are likely to show that TSB is making some of the lowest returns among high street banks and is not expected to make profits or pay dividends until 2017. The IPO comes after the collapse of a planned sale to the Co-op of the TSB branch network, as the scale of the purchaser's troubles emerged. TSB will be spun off with 631 branches, about 6% of the banks nationwide, while it only accounts for 4% of the current account market. Other flotations in the pipeline include the AA, which published details of its IPO on Friday. Property website Zoopla, discount retailer B&amp;M and easyHotel, the budget hotel chain, are also set to list in the next few weeks, despite increasing wariness from investors swamped by new offers. Ivor Pether, a senior fund manager at Royal London Asset Management, said: "I'll be looking at TSB closely because it's a forced disposal, and the market knows that Lloyds has to sell the rest by the end of 2015 so it has to be priced attractively. This IPO has to take off because if the first tranche is a flop it's a very poor precedent for the other 75% they will be selling later on. That means we may get the IPO discount we would expect and that we haven't been getting in a lot of other issues." The market was gripped by IPO fever in the first few months of this year as investors threw off years of caution in search of companies that could benefit from the recovering economy and returning consumer confidence. Retailers and online businesses were high on fund managers lists. But after initial enthusiasm, investors have become wary of the valuations placed on companies by their sellers', which are often private equity firms seeking to unload businesses they bought before the financial crisis. Simon Gergel, head of UK equities at Allianz Global Investors, said: "Many of the recent IPOs have gone at a premium. I look to see a good reason to buy the business given that investors have far more information than the buyers. In most cases the vendors know the business and they pick their moment. "You often get a lot of IPOs towards the top of the market. The valuations in many areas are looking a bit extended and investors need to be careful." Game, the video game retailer owned by a US hedge fund, on Friday priced its flotation at the bottom of the 200p to 212p range it had proposed to investors the day before. Fat Face pulled its planned IPO last month after investors refused to meet the £400m-plus price demanded by the casualwear retailer's private equity owners. Saga, the over-50s insurance and travel business, was forced to value the company at the bottom of a price range its buyout firm owners had already cut under pressure from investors. Fund managers started driving a harder bargain after several recently listed companies' shares fell below their IPO prices, ringing alarm bells about pricy valuations. AO World, the online kitchen appliance and TV retailer, signalled the return of IPO fever when it floated in February. Its shares rose by more than a third on the first day of trading but the shares have been below the float price for two months. Other high-profile floats to leave early investors short changed include retailers Pets at Home and Card Factory and online takeaway food service Just Eat. The market picked up to £8.04bn last year, helped by the successful flotation of insurer Direct Line and the high-profile listing of Royal Mail, whose shares surged by more than a third on the first day of trading. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Barbara Corcoran built her fortune in real estate – she tells us what makes a great salesperson. The "Shark Tank" investor also reveals what her pitch would have been if she were seeking financing on the hit show. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Originally published in November 2013. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
jovialiste.files.wordpress.comHere's something interesting from Deutsche Bank, which shows what a weird year 2014 has been. Every one of these economic facts has happened this year: (1) A narrower trading range in dollar/euro than renminbi spot (2) Irish 10-year bond yields below both UK Gilts and US Treasuries (3) Japan as the country with the highest inflation rate among advanced economies (4) Stronger first quarter output growth in the eurozone periphery than in America (5) BIITS equity markets up double digits in dollar terms on average (6) A Greek government primary surplus (7) Iron ore prices down a third and nickel up a third despite both used primarily to make steel (8) A drop of 200,000 unemployed in the periphery but a rise in unemployment across the rest of the eurozone (9) America’s trade deficit (goods and services combined as a percentage of output) being smaller than Japan’s (10) Best performing stock market: Argentina. 2014 has been a pretty brutal year for a lot of investors. These facts explain why. FREE AppDownload
Warner Bros. / The Great Gatsby TrailerF Scott Fitzgerald’s masterpiece, the emblematic novel of 'the American dream’, is as misunderstood as that clichéd phrase If America is a land of fables, then the “American dream” is supposed to be one of our favourites. Although most would call it a consolatory idea, the phrase “American dream” was in fact created to describe not America’s success stories, but its failures: it was intended as a corrective to acquisitiveness, not a name for it. In 1931, F Scott Fitzgerald wrote an essay, “Echoes of the Jazz Age”, in which he noted that the 1920s “leaped to a spectacular death in October, 1929.” Less remembered is that he also marked the jazz age’s birth — with a violent protest against corrupt financiers. It started “when the police rode down the demobilized country boys” just home from the Great War at the behest of “goose-livered business men,” during the May Day riots of 1919; it began to seem that “maybe we had gone to war for JP Morgan’s loans after all.” Ordinary Americans would continue to pay the price for the 1920s. By 1929, more than half the population lived below subsistence level, while the richest one percent owned 40 percent of the nation’s wealth: capital had been siphoned to the top. Such a top-heavy system seemed bound to keel over, and the historian James Truslow Adams (among others) predicted, before 1929, that a crash would come. In the same year as Fitzgerald’s essay, Adams wrote a book entitled The American Dream. His publishers didn’t think it a catchy phrase, so they persuaded him to call it The Epic of America instead. By 1931 it was clear that many of America’s wealthiest had escaped the Depression unscathed; men like Joseph P Kennedy emerged from it even richer. In 1933, Franklin Roosevelt began implementing the sweeping New Deal reforms, including financial regulations and tax reform, as well as medical, pension and welfare entitlements. The US Banking Act of 1933, better known as the Glass-Steagall Act, limited affiliations between commercial and private banking — which is why the narrator of Fitzgerald’s last novel observes, “since 1933, the rich could only be happy together.” By no coincidence the first head of the newly formed Securities and Exchange Commission was none other than Joe Kennedy, whom Roosevelt chose on the stated basis that it takes a crook to catch a crook. It is against this backdrop of attempts at redressing inequality that the “American dream” emerged from Adams’s history as a way to discuss national redemption. The Epic of America was an instant bestseller; over the next decade, Adams continued to write in the mainstream media about the American dream, giving a language and history to burgeoning national debates about socialized education, healthcare, housing, and inequality. For Adams, the American dream included, but extended beyond, economic opportunity: it was “the belief in the common man and the insistence upon his having, as far as possible, equal opportunity in every way with the rich one.” It was about mitigating against privilege, not promising that everyone could be rich. But when the phrase “the American dream” went viral, it mutated — eventually connoting nearly the opposite of what Adams intended. That’s not to say that Adams was a socialist; rather, he hoped that capitalism could become ameliorative. Because businessmen were being forced “to consider the good of society” in order to salvage their businesses, he wondered whether “broader consideration of the good of the whole nation” might emerge once “business also finds that that pays better?” Enlightened self-interest meant that it was “possible that society, still acting from the profit motive in a capitalistic and largely individualistic framework, may yet evolve a more beneficent order.” To save the American dream, corporations should recognize “the close correlation of our private good with the public good,” or what we now call corporate social responsibility. Adams’s ideas were welcome to a nation that was trying to correct an economic catastrophe by changing its rules; a renewed sense of mutual obligation and commonweal seemed the obvious answer to many, an ethos that they used “the American dream” to indicate. The phrase took off, and was used to proselytize for state-subsidized education, public healthcare, public housing, even, by 1939, the moral imperative to join the war in Europe. Today, the idea that the American dream has been replaced by an American nightmare has become the nation’s favourite way to discuss widespread inequality and downward social mobility. But for Adams and his readers, the nightmare was what had come before: it was in the 1920s, Adams wrote, that “the American dream was changed into a nightmare of gambling and corruption and mad spending.” Then the crash had come, but what had Americans learned? The nation had since passed through “three emotional states”: bewilderment, fear, and resentment, “directed against the bankers and other leaders who have betrayed their trust.” It surely must come as news to us today that in the 1930s most Americans were assumed to agree that the American dream was opposed to the accumulation of vast fortunes. By 1939, the New York Times declared, “the dominant note is one of defeat. In its mildest form we have the emphasis on the American Dream, with the implication that American life up to now has been a non-fulfillment.” The American dream was not coined as a triumphalist phrase: it was always a way to talk about disillusionment. The vast debates sparked by the Depression ranged across political and moral economies, as well as financial ones. But that’s my point: when its originators discussed the “American dream”, they were recalling ideals that transcended the material. Today our invocations of the American dream focus almost exclusively on individuals’ material prospects — a usage Adams and his contemporaries would surely have viewed as symptomatic of our moral bankruptcy. Given our impoverished understanding of the original meanings of the “American dream,” it should come as no surprise that readings of its most emblematic novel are often similarly inadequate. We project on to Fitzgerald our nostalgic, simplistic ideas about the 1920s as one big party, and assume that Gatsby glorifies the greatest parties of them all. (If you doubt that this is a common take on the novel, just watch Baz Lurhmann’s film adaptation from last year.) A brief example: one of the popular songs that Fitzgerald quotes in Gatsby, “Ain’t We Got Fun,” sounds like a trivial, frivolous tune. It’s actually a song that satirises economic inequality, with the refrain, “One thing’s sure, and nothing’s surer / The rich get richer and the poor get … children.” It was a hit in 1921, a year of sharp recession: the American economy began surging in 1922, the year in which Gatsby is set. Gatsby is as much a post-recession novel as it is a boom novel, and it associates boom with corruption. Gatsby is linked to every fraud of a fraudulent era: bootlegging (the equivalent of drug-dealing today), financial swindles, gambling, and even the oil business, which by 1924 was a byword for government corruption in the wake of the Teapot Dome bribery scandal. It has become a cliché that Jay Gatsby allegorizes America itself: idealistic, full of promise, easily corrupted, endlessly desiring, endlessly failing. For the novel’s narrator Nick Carraway, Gatsby’s “incorruptible dream” redeems his material corruption, but the novel leaves room for doubt. Just before Gatsby’s death, when he’s lost hope in his dream, Nick imagines him looking out at a frightening “new world, material without being real...” Without the dream to ennoble it, the merely material is “grotesque” and unrealized, not just meaningless, but poisonous. This is the new world that Gatsby discovers, just before Nick turns his attention in the novel’s famous closing passage to the New World, which may also be material without being real, a nation that Fitzgerald has earlier described as consumed by the “business” of serving “a vast, vulgar and meretricious beauty.” When Nick imagines Europeans seeing America for the first time, and finding in it “something commensurate to [man’s] capacity for wonder,” he invokes not the Puritans but the Dutch sailors — the merchants. Greeting these commercially motivated aspirants, Fitzgerald writes, the land itself “pandered in whispers to the last and greatest of all human dreams.” The dreams may be great, but if they are pandered to, then they are also illusions. Fitzgerald never uses the phrase “American dream” in the novel, but he comes close — and suggests in 1925 that it is a lie, or at least a chimera, a false promise of self-empowerment in which we are desperate to believe. “His dream must have seemed so close that he could hardly fail to grasp it,” Fitzgerald writes in closing, but “it was already behind him, somewhere back in that vast obscurity beyond the city, where the dark fields of the republic rolled on under the night.” But Gatsby always believes in the green light, that entwined symbol of hope, renewal, envy, permission to go, and the colour of money. For Fitzgerald, Gatsby’s vast wealth is a sign of the failure of the American dream, not its success. The metaphor we might consider is foreclosure: to preclude, to end possibilities; and in commercial terms, to block the possibility of redeeming a loan. Redemption becomes foreclosed, the dream is already lost behind Gatsby before he even tries to grasp it. The majesty of the dream means we cannot relinquish it, but its glory is so diminished that we are now blinded to what the dream really was, left only with dispossession — not only of very real American homes but also of the greater dreams they once symbolized, which Fitzgerald elsewhere describes as “an effort toward some commonweal, an effort difficult to estimate, so closely does it press against us still.” Fitzgerald suggests in Gatsby that we keep thinking our dreams should be bigger, when in fact they need to be better. It’s a lesson we have yet to learn, and the more we invoke what we think we mean by “the American dream,” the more the dream recedes before us, just as Fitzgerald predicted it would. In 1940, a New York Times editorial remarked that when the Americans of the turn of the century “spoke of the American Dream, they meant the American hope, the American aspiration, the American ideal. When people wrote of the American Dream after 1930, they meant the American mirage, the American illusion… the American lie.” In less than a decade, the American dream had been so absorbed into the national imagination that America’s paper of record thought it was a phrase that dated back centuries – that only recently had the American dream been revealed as a lie. But it was a recent invention, and as Adams predicted, each generation would need to relearn the lessons of inequality and disappointment, an innocence we keep losing anew. Fitzgerald understood in the midst of the 1920s what most would only see in retrospect: that “the dead dream” will always fight on, as we try to touch the intangible, “struggling unhappily, undespairingly” towards what we keep losing. Sarah Churchwell delivered the London Library Lecture at Hay last week and is author of Careless People: Murder, Mayhem and the Invention of The Great Gatsby (Virago). Call 0844 871 1515 or visit books.telegraph.co.uk   READ: F Scott Fitzgerald's Babylon Revisited, one of finest short stories in the English language and a perfect morality tale for today  FREE AppDownload
O.J. Is Innocent And I Can Prove It by William C. Dear In an exhaustive new book titled "O.J. Is Innocent And I Can Prove It," private investigator William C. Dear details his 18-year investigation of the June 12, 1994, murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman. Dear concludes that O.J. didn't kill his wife and her friend — but he did visit the scene of the crime shortly after it occurred — and that evidence suggests his son Jason (who was 24 at the time) did it in a rage killing. Dear made a list of all potential suspects, visited the crime scene and other relevant places, conducted interviews, established a clear timeline of events, debunked alibis, collected evidence and generally aimed to subvert false assumptions made by the LAPD. Dear's goal is that the information "will lead to the convening of a special grand jury, an arrest, and a conviction for these senseless murders." To most of those who watched the famous "white Bronco" low-speed chase and trial after the killings in 1994, it will likely seem inconceivable that someone other than Simpson committed the murders, but Dear cites some compelling evidence to support his case. At the very least, it seems Jason Simpson should have been considered a suspect, which he never was. (And if there is any conceivable explanation for OJ's bizarre behavior after the murders other than that he killed his wife, it is that he knew that his son had killed his wife and wanted to protect him.) Importantly, this is not the first time Dear has investigated a murder. He used the same method to solve the murder of an Ohio man named Dean Milo, which resulted in 11 people (including Milo's brother) being sent to jail. We've pulled out the biggest reasons why Dear considers OJ's son a major suspect. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusMiss Connecticut Erin Brady reacts as she is crowned by Miss USA 2012 Nana Meriwether during the Miss USA pageant at the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada June 16, 2013. This weekend, Miss USA 2013 Erin Brady will crown her successor at the widely-viewed beauty pageant owned by billionaire Donald Trump.  Before becoming Miss USA, Brady worked an accountant. She told us last year that working as an accountant helped her prepare for the pageant.  While some might consider pageants to be superficial, they actually help teach poise and confidence. They also help tremendously when it comes to interviewing. What's more is being a titleholder like Miss USA is a job. It requires a lot of work.  In honor of the upcoming event, we decided to do a little research and look up former pageant titleholders who work or have worked in financial services. We were able to find a handful of them.  If we're missing any names of titleholders in the finance industry, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersKjell Inge Roekke attends a Fourth of July celebration at the U.S. Ambassador's residence in OsloOSLO (Reuters) - He is the self-made man who changed the way business was done in Norway, and from this week, Kjell Inge Roekke, a flamboyant billionaire with an explosive temper and a taste for the supersized, can also call himself an oil baron. His company Det norske, hitherto a rather modest oil explorer, paid $2.1 billion in cash to bag Marathon Oil's Norwegian business, turning it into the Nordic country's second-largest oil producer behind Statoil. It is deals such as this that have turned Roekke, 55, into one of Norway's richest men, and turned his holding company, Aker ASA, into the country's largest private industrial group, with controlling stakes in Det norske, oil services firm Aker Solutions, heavy equipment maker Kvaerner, plus shippers and fisheries. It has been a precipitous climb. Born in Molde, a small town on Norway's west coat, he left high school a dyslexic teenager with no qualifications and crossed the Atlantic to become a fisherman, catching pollock and crab from a base in Seattle. He invested in a number of old boats, modified them into advanced factory trawlers, and so built his fortune. In the early 90s, he came back to Norway to shake up its sedate business world. Roekke and a partner set their sights on one of Norway's venerable conglomerates, 173-year-old Aker, quickly bought up 40 percent of its shares in 1996, and merged it with their own Resources Group International, before snapping up Kvaerner four years later. "He was the first one to bring American-style, aggressive capitalism to Norway, daring to use shareholder power to get what he wanted," said Steinar Dyrnes, a journalist at the Aftenposten daily who wrote a biography of Roekke. "This was quite unheard of in Norway at the time," he said. When Roekke seized Aker, many feared he would act like a corporate raider, gutting the company for cash. But that was not what drove him, then or now, his business associates say. "He has shown quite the opposite," said Erik Haugane, a former chief executive at Det norske. "He has shown he thinks about the long-term when he makes investments and buys firms." "He is a builder," said Kristin Krohn Devold, a former defense minister who sits on the Aker board with Roekke. "He gets a kick out of building things ... He loves building companies up, building industries, finding new products."   NAUTICAL PASSION In a protestant, social-democratic country where egalitarianism trumps materialism, Roekke made waves with his glamorous girlfriends, private jet and flashy homes. There was even a pop song written about the heady mix of his business and party lifestyle. His enduring passion is for boats of all shapes and sizes - but mostly large; he built the world's biggest fishing trawler and has made headlines with an ostentatious $90 million yacht, and a 217-foot sailboat. And for crashing in a speedboat race. In 2007, he was convicted of bribing his way to a boat operating license and served 23 days in prison. Even there the charismatic Roekke was something of a hit, and upon his release spent more than $3,000 on takeaway pizzas for his old cellmates. "Roekke is an emotional person and he can express his emotions very strongly," said Dyrnes. "This means that he is often very charming and friendly. But there is another side. He can be very angry ... which is very un-Norwegian." "The first time you experience his anger, it can be a bit of a shock," said Haugane, the former Det norske CEO. "You are thinking, 'What on earth is going on?' But then it passes. And the second and third time it happens, it is not as bad." In 2009, the target of his anger was Industry Minister Sylvia Brustad, who claimed Roekke had bought and sold assets in a way that benefited himself but not other Aker Solutions shareholders, which include the government. He hit back at a live news conference, claiming Brustad had got her facts wrong. The broadcast, which went on for hours, also turned personal, taking a swipe at her rural dialect. And yet four years later she was hired by one of Roekke's companies to manage relations with the government. "His strength is in coming up with lots of new, strategic ideas. But he needs someone to tell him which ones of his ideas are smart and which ones are not," said Dyrnes, the biographer. At Aker, the man who helps him decide which ideas will work is chief executive Oeyvind Eriksen. "It is true that we have complementary skills. We have a unique collaboration and relationship," said Eriksen. Not all of Roekke's decisions look smart. In 1997 he bought into London's Wimbledon Football Club and later decided to relocate it to Milton Keynes, 55 miles (90km) north of its traditional home, an act of treachery to its fans. Record low crowds and poor results on the field sent the club into administration. These days Roekke, who tends to decline media requests for interviews, communicates mostly through his letters to shareholders, published in Aker's annual reports. In a letter published in the 2011 report, he admitted a penchant for the unusually and superfluously large. "(My wife) Anne Grete is totally right when she says I suffer from an incurable disease: gigantomania. She has tried to cure me, but given up," he wrote. "We had agreed to build a sailboat of 66. Anne Grete meant 66 feet; naturally, I was thinking in meters. It ended up at 66 meters." He declined to say if he had giant plans for Det norske's new oil acquisition, but others in the company have said it will help finance development of its share of the $20 billion Johan Sverdrup oilfield in the North Sea - the biggest oil find off Norway in decades.   (Additional reporting by Terje Solsvik; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Motor City Casino and Hotel is seen near downtown Detroit, MichiganDETROIT/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Detroit's reliance on casino cash to help fund a recovery from the city's historic bankruptcy is a high-risk bet on what is an increasingly shaky source of income. A trial to approve Detroit's plan to exit its $18 billion bankruptcy, the largest municipal crash in U.S. history, begins in late July. Flawed revenue projections may undermine its feasibility, creating a key legal hurdle to win approval by the court. On a practical level, a revenue shortfall could knock the city down just as it is getting back on its feet. Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr projects that wagering tax revenue from three local casinos, the city's third largest source of cash, will remain essentially steady as far ahead as 2023. Orr has described the gambling taxes as Detroit's most stable source of money. But casino revenue has declined of late in Detroit itself and in recent years traditional gambling hubs like Nevada and New Jersey as well as relative newcomers to the wagering scene, such as neighboring Ohio, have seen swoons. "Projecting casino revenue is notoriously difficult," Moody's Investors Service casino analyst Keith Foley said. "But nobody is saying it is going to get better." For instance, casino revenue from Atlantic City has roughly halved since 2007, a drop no one saw coming, Foley said. Total U.S. casino revenue in 2012 was still just shy of a 10-year peak of $37.5 billion set in 2007, according to the American Gaming Association. A litany of factors stack up against Orr's forecast, industry analysts and experts say: younger people show little interest in gambling, the casino market is saturated, and thousands of local residents are likely to see their wages drop due to the bankruptcy plan. Bill Nowling, a spokesman for Orr, says the casino tax projection is conservative and was calculated by Detroit's financial restructuring advisors, Ernst &amp; Young. He said the calculations were also based on anticipated Michigan unemployment rates "continuing to improve and inflation to hold at or below 1 percent annually." He declined to elaborate on projections but said if they were too high, Detroit "will live within its means and will match spending with available revenue." The casino revenue has already been the subject of legal wrangling in the bankruptcy. In April, the bankruptcy judge approved a deal brokered by Orr that kept the casino revenue from being diverted to two creditor banks. In fiscal year 2013, casino taxes brought in $174.6 million, down 3.7 percent from $181.4 million the year before, according to Orr's latest plan of adjustment filed in May. That was nearly 17 percent of Detroit's general fund revenues, with only income taxes and state funds larger revenue sources. Orr's plan predicts it will continue to drop to just over $168 million in 2015, then recover to its 2012 level by 2023, at a growth rate of 1 percent a year from 2016 until 2023. But just a 1 percent annual downturn in wagering taxes after 2016 would lead to a more than $25 million shortfall in 2023 alone, according to calculations by Reuters. Overall, revenue at the three casinos fell 4.75 percent in 2013. The decline has continued so far this year, with revenue over the first four months falling more than 6 percent from a year earlier. "Obviously they are going to have to justify this projection at trial," said Richard Larkin, director of credit analysis at investment bank HJ Sims. "Casino revenue is not a traditional, long-term revenue source." A flaw in projecting casino revenue "could signal far deeper problems with city's plan of adjustment and the city's intended plans for recovery," said Peter Hammer, a law professor at Detroit's Wayne State University. "It decreases substantially the confidence you have about the viability of the rest of the plan, which involves much more complicated issues," Hammer said. Moody's Foley has a similar concern about the casinos: "What if Detroit has another 5 percent decline next year? Then their budget is already way off track." After all, Detroit is not alone in seeing a fall off in casino revenue. It is down in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Nevada, Pennsylvania, Missouri, Connecticut, Atlantic City and Ohio in the past two years, according to figures from each state. Analysts and backers of Orr's projections say there are factors that might mitigate a slide in Detroit's casino revenue, compared to other areas. State law allows only three gambling houses in the city, a cushion against more competition. The city is the most convenient gambling center for southeast Michigan, northeastern Indiana and northwest Ohio. Jennifer Kulczycki, a spokeswoman for the company that owns one of the city's casinos, Greektown, said that while revenue had softened, "we are optimistic for things to return to previous levels - and then some. The Detroit market is 14 years old and it has been very resistant." A central issue is whether these declines are temporary or permanent. In an April report, Moody's Foley warned that Detroit's bankruptcy threatens a reduction in gambling spending because city employees face lower pensions and retiree health benefits under Orr's restructuring plan. The city is Detroit's second biggest employer, according to Crain's Detroit Business. Demographics are also a worry, said Alex Calderone, a business turnaround specialist based in Michigan, who was part of the team that took the city's Greektown Casino-Hotel through bankruptcy between 2008 and 2010. Greektown is up and running under a new owner - Dan Gilbert, the founder and CEO of Quicken Loans, who is investing heavily in downtown Detroit. Standing in the casino, surrounded by the cacophony of slot machines and clouds of cigarette smoke, Calderone asked: "Where are the young people?" There is no replacement for the predominately older age group who gamble, he said. "Young people have little inclination to play slot machines," according to a recent analysis by Deutsche Bank. It cited research by the Meczka consulting group, which said only 18 percent of people aged between 21 and 35 visit casinos. Experts also look to Las Vegas as a leading indicator in gambling behavior. According to the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada, more people now visit the Vegas strip to eat and go night clubbing than gamble. But Detroit is not Vegas. Casino-hotels on the Vegas strip such as Caesar's Palace and Wynn Las Vegas have spectacular nightly shows, and high-end bars, restaurants and shops. Moreover, Detroit's casino tax is based on gambling revenue alone. While Detroit's biggest casino, MGM Grand Detroit, part of MGM Resorts International&lt;MGM.N&gt;, would not look out of place among the glass and marble casinos of the Vegas strip, it and the nearby MotorCity sit in a virtual urban desert. Their surroundings are bleak - a far cry from glitzy - and perpetually warm - Las Vegas. Last year revenues fell 6.3 percent at the MGM and 1.2 percent at MotorCity, and have continued to drop this year. Greektown's revenue fell more: from $352.1 million to $328.3 million, or 6.8 percent. In contrast to its larger two rivals, Greektown is in need of a makeover. Its carpets are old, its facilities drab. But plans for a full face lift have been scaled back. According to a February filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Gilbert's company that owns Greektown, Athens Acquisitions LLC, said a planned $150 million renovation had been cut back to a $25 million to $50 million refurbishment. "In a casino that's basically just changing the carpet," said Ken Adams, a gaming consultant. (Reporting by Tim Reid; Editing by Dan Burns and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
This week's payments roundup comes from Payments Insider, the daily briefing delivered first thing every morning exclusively to BI Intelligence members. RUSSIA REPORTEDLY FREES CYBERCRIME CONVICT TO BUILD NATIONAL PAYMENTS NETWORK  Wikimedia.orgPavel VrublevskyAn ex-con granted early release from a Russian penal colony will play a key role in building that country’s national payments network, according to Russian journalist Irek Murtazin. Convicted last year of organizing a web attack on Russian airline Aeroflot, Pavel Vrublevsky, the co-founder of major Russian e-payments company ChronoPay, was inexplicably released last week on early parole. Vrublevsky’s release came with “an offer he couldn’t refuse,” writes Murtazin  — to help run Russia’s new national payments network, set to roll out on July 1. APPLE WARMS UP TO BITCOIN, ALLOWS FIRST WALLET APP  Just days after reports surfaced that Apple had updated its app developer guidelines to allow “approved virtual currencies,” Australia-based Bitcoin wallet CoinJar reappeared on the iOS app store in Australia. Apple had previously rejected apps designed to send or receive payment in Bitcoin, though an official ban was never announced. The new developer guidelines allow apps that “facilitate transmission of approved virtual currencies provided that they do so in compliance with all state and federal laws for the territories in which the app functions.”   “This is a sign that the [Bitcoin] ecosystem is maturing and gaining credibility,” Bill Lee, an investor in bitcoin wallet BitGo, told Bloomberg in an e-mail. In addition to CoinJar, several Bitcoin wallet developers were reportedly planning to submit previously rejected wallet apps as soon as this week.  FTC WINS COURT ORDER IN PAYDAY LENDING CRACKDOWN  A U.S. federal judge last week found payday lender AMG Services liable for engaging in deceptive practices, another blow in a widespread federal crackdown on the payday lending industry, which originates an estimated $27 billion in annual loan volume. The judgement comes in a civil suit filed by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), one of several suits filed in an FTC “crackdown“ against payday lenders that it accuses of tricking customers into what are effectively triple-digit interest rates. As we’ve reported, the U.S. Department of Justice, a separate federal enforcement arm, is cracking down on banks that allow allegedly deceptive lenders access to borrower bank accounts via the federal ACH electronic money transfer system. NIGERIANS CLAMOR FOR PAYPAL ACCESS  A group of Nigerians have issued a plea to PayPal, and it doesn't involve dubious schemes for moving massive sums of money abroad on behalf of a deposed ruler. Nigeria-based responsive web-design shop Creativity Kills has posted a petition on Change.org asking the U.S.-based PayPal to extend operations to Nigeria, one of the few countries it does not currently serve. “Granted, Nigeria is known for internet fraud, but NOT everyone in Nigeria is a fraud,” the petition reads. “This has become a source of frustration for us the Legit people who want to carry out ecommerce online.” The petition had attracted 464 signatures at press time. "We would like to thank the people of Nigeria for their enthusiasm," PayPal wrote in a statement to BI Intelligence. "While we do not comment on future plans, we can confirm that we [are] evaluating ways to improve our product offerings to best serve the needs of merchants and consumers in this market." Click here to subscribe to Payments Insider and receive it in your inbox everyday.   RELATED: PayPal Moves Quickly To Integrate Apple's Fingerprint Reader Into Its Apps   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/libertygrace0U.S. companies added 217,000 jobs in May, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics — and a decent chunk of them came in the healthcare industry.  The healthcare industry added 34,000 jobs last month, which amounts to twice its average monthly gain over the prior 12 months. A significant portion of that number came from the ambulatory healthcare services sector, which includes increases in physicians' offices, outpatient care centers, and home healthcare services. With the uptick, the healthcare industry has added jobs in 131 consecutive months. The last time the sector lost jobs was in July 2003. Dan Diamond, the managing editor of the Daily Briefing, also points out that 100,000 jobs have been added in the healthcare sector over the first five months of the year, and the industry is on pace to add more than 230 jobs this year Still, May's healthcare sector growth amounted to less than 3%. And overall, jobs growth in the healthcare sector has been remarkably consistent on a year-over-year average. Former OMB Director Peter Orszag tweeted this chart: Twitter/@porszag FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersShipping container is lifted by a crane at a port in LianyungangBEIJING (Reuters) - China's exports gained steam in May due to the global economic recovery, data showed on Sunday, but an unexpected fall in imports could signal weaker domestic demand. Exports rose 7 percent in May from a year earlier, quickening from April's 0.9 percent rise, while imports fell 1.6 percent, versus a rise of 0.8 percent in April, the General Administration of Customs said. The world's second-largest economy's trade surplus widened sharply to $35.9 billion in May from April's $18.5 billion, the customs office said. That compared with market expectations in a Reuters poll of a 6.6 percent rise in exports, a 6.1 percent rise in imports and a monthly trade surplus of $22.6 billion. [ID:nL3N0OL25U] "The data shows that the country's exports growth has returned to a normal level and will continue to improve," customs office spokesman Zheng Yuesheng told state television. China's commerce ministry had predicted that the trade picture could brighten in May as base efforts fade and government support measures kick in. [ID:nL3N0O90VP] Analysts have attributed the weak trade figures partly to an inflated comparison base with last year due to a rash of fake invoicing of exports to beat currency restrictions. Authorities have cracked down on such activities since May of last year. The pick-up in exports follows a batch of factory surveys for May that showed improvement in activity, as the government steps up targeted measures to support growth, including quickening construction of railways and public housing and loosening credit conditions for selected banks. The government has also unveiled some policy support for the export sector, including offering quicker tax rebates for exporters and encouraging more high-tech equipment and consumer goods imports. Analysts believe that China's property market could put downward pressure on growth even as global demand improves, as evidence mounts of a rapid cooling in what had been one of the few strong spots in the economy.   (Reporting by Kevin Yao; Editing by Paul Tait) FREE AppDownload
The evidence is piling up that the economy is bursting out of the winter doldrums, as basically all of the May economic data has been hot. The latest evidence comes from what may be the most important source of all: The credit markets. Specifically, credit expansion is accelerating. On Friday we got fresh data on bank lending and consumer credit. The below chart shows the year-over-year change in loans and leases from commercial banks (red line) and revolving consumer credit, AKA credit card usage, in the blue line. What's clear is that both are on an upswing. Both measures made steady gains out of the slump, and then stalled out again. A new credit expansion would be crucial, as it would allow the economy to really gather steam, feeding on itself, and break out of the post-crisis slump. To those who throw up their hands and say "oh great, more debt and credit, that's just what we need," the response is: well, yeah, credit is the lifeblood of the economy and banks are its beating heart.  FRED FREE AppDownload
On Friday, the US economy hit a significant milestone. The total number of Non-Farm Payrolls has finally surpassed the pre-crisis peak from early 2008. That's a depressing milestone though. For one thing, it's taken way too long to get here. And for another thing, we're still not caught up, because the population has grown since then, so just being back at that level isn't enough. So what's held the job market back? One huge factor has been government employment. Bill McBride at Calculated Risk has updated his chart of public sector employment under Obama and the last few Presidents. As you can see, it's not even close. The public sector (mostly concentrated at the state and local levels) has aggressively shed jobs during the Obama administration. That's a trend that never happened under recent Presidents. Calculated Risk There's no getting around how much of a drag this has been. As for private sector employment growth? Well, the Obama administration is right in the middle of the pack. Calculated Risk Here is Obama with the four of the five previous presidents in April 2013. REUTERS/Jason ReedU.S. President Barack Obama stands alongside former presidents George W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George H.W. Bush and Jimmy Carter as they attend the dedication ceremony for the George W. Bush Presidential Center in Dallas, April 25, 2013. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFrench students hold the European flag near the Bastille as they participate in a demonstration to protest the results by France's far-right National Front political party in the European election in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - With the euro zone bond market back to irrational exuberance and economic growth returning slowly if unevenly, politics rather than economics now poses the biggest threat to the long-term endurance of Europe's single currency. Widespread anti-EU protest votes in last month's European Parliament elections will make it harder for many governments to pursue deficit-cutting and structural economic reforms or to deepen the integration of the 18-nation euro area. Public resistance in Germany, Europe's biggest economy, may make it impossible for the European Central Bank to go beyond last week's monetary easing measures to more radical U.S.-style asset purchases if low inflation persists or worsens. Berlin is balking at using its own healthy fiscal position to invest more in infrastructure or spur domestic demand with tax cuts that could help balance Europe's economic adjustment. European Union leaders and the ECB have done enough to restore market confidence for now by equipping the euro zone with a financial rescue fund, stricter fiscal discipline, a single banking supervisor and a de facto lender of last resort. But the political will to complete economic and monetary union looks ever weaker, especially if it requires winning public approval for changes to the EU's governing treaties. In a book published before the elections(*), French economist Jean Pisani-Ferry argued that Europe's leaders were reluctant to give any more power to Brussels and sought to avoid controversy over further European integration. "Fighting the euro crisis has already proved divisive domestically. The less they take initiatives, the less they risk political problems at home," he wrote. The surge in support for Eurosceptic and anti-establishment parties in the May 25 vote can only reinforce that inertia now that the acute need for action has passed. Even critics who predicted the euro zone could break up, such as U.S. economist Nouriel Roubini, acknowledge that much has improved in the last two years. "Certainly many things in the euro zone are moving in the right direction," he told a conference of the Maurice Allais Foundation in Paris, listing more sustainable fiscal policies, reforms of labor markets, pension and welfare systems and improved cost competitiveness in several countries.   ECONOMY ON MEND Countries that received bailouts have regained full access to market funding, except Greece and Cyprus, and even Athens has issued a first five-year bond. As investors pile back into Europe, yields on Spanish 10-year government bonds are now roughly level with their U.S. and British counterparts, three years after Madrid needed a 43 billion euro ($58.7 billion) EU bailout to restructure its shattered banks. Four of the assisted countries - Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain - were among the top five performers for improving their competitiveness in the latest "Going for Growth" report of the Organisation for Economic Coooperation and Development. All have substantially reduced unit labor costs, eliminated big current account deficits, shrunk the public sector payroll and made progress towards balancing their budgets. The giant black spot is unemployment - still above 25 percent in Spain and Greece and more than half of all young people. All are also emerging from the crisis with much heavier debt burdens, although the weight of debt service is lightened by long delays before they have to repay loans to the EU rescue fund, likely to be extended still further for Greece. But optimistic EU officials say the euro zone periphery will be its most dynamic region in the coming years, comparing it with the success of bitter IMF medicine in South Korea and Indonesia after Asia's financial crisis in the 1990s. Many economists doubt that, however. Pisani-Ferry, now head of the French government's policy planning unit, says the de-industrialization of southern Europe may be irreversible.   LE PEN ET AL The focus of concern is now shifting to France and Italy, the euro zone's second- and third-largest economies, which did not require bailouts and have implemented fewer reforms. Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi bucked the trend in the European vote, winning a strong mandate to pursue reforms of the political system and labor markets. But given Rome's endemic political instability, the enduring blocking power of vested interests and the weakness of its legal system, he still faces daunting obstacles. The biggest challenge may be France, where the EU election victory of Marine Le Pen's far right National Front has weakened President Francois Hollande's Socialist government just as it is finally set to ease the tax and regulatory burden on business. Hollande's 81 percent disapproval rating and back-to-back defeats in municipal and European elections may drain him of the authority to implement reforms vital to revive investment and job creation in France. Protectionist pressure from Le Pen's anti-EU nationalists and the left, including Socialist party rebels, may push Paris to obstruct EU-U.S. free trade negotiations. Electoral gains for hard left anti-austerity parties in Greece and to a lesser extent Spain have raised pressure for a let-up in public spending cuts and unpopular economic reforms. "The social and political backlash against austerity and reform could become overwhelming," Roubini warned. Renzi is hoping to use his political honeymoon to engineer a new European bargain in which the budget deficit rules are adapted to allow more space for public investment in countries that are implementing EU-recommended structural reforms. But even if EU leaders are able to agree to tilt their economic policy mix some way from austerity towards expansion, the institutional changes needed to strengthen Europe's monetary union durably seem politically harder than ever. (* The Euro Crisis and its Aftermath, Oxford University Press)   (Writing by Paul Taylor; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
