Belts have just been taken up another notch. New York City surgeon Andrew Heffernan and his girlfriend, Anna Lundberg, think belts are the next big menswear accessory and recently launched Beltology, an online retailer, to cater to men's waists. They told the Wall Street Journal that menswear is outpacing womenswear by nearly double, and men's accessory "mono-brands" like Happy Socks and Havaianas are particularly successful. "We looked at the numbers, which were just staggering," Heffernan told the WSJ. "Socks, particularly colored socks, were up, gloves were up, scarves were up, even ties were up. We thought, surely this is a sleeping giant."  The couple officially launched Beltology in January, "to do for belts what Swatch did for the wristwatch back in [1983]," Heffernan said.  Beltology's belts fit practically anyone because they have no holes, stretch up to 25%, and they're reasonably priced at $45 to $65.  The roughly one-inch-wide belts are available in 50 different variations of colors and patterns. FREE AppDownload
While covering the hot IPO of enterprise darling Arista Networks, Bloomberg made a startling disclosure on Friday: Arista had offered pre-IPO stock to a journalist who covers the company. That's the second public disclosure of Arista's unusual "friends and family" stock sharing plan. It wrote: "[CEO Jayshree] Ullal was criticized for offering pre-IPO 'friends and family' shares to several reporters, including a Bloomberg News reporter. The offer, which the Bloomberg News reporter declined, was rescinded after the company was criticized." Business Insider has confirmed that the journalist is Peter Burrows, one of the reporters that covered Arista's IPO on Friday. Burrows is not the only reporter that covers Arista for Bloomberg. But sources tell us that he was researching stories about Cisco, Arista's arch rival, and this somehow made him a target for the offer. Bloomberg, however, wasn't the news organization that went public with this stock-sharing scheme. Last month, a leading technology journalist, Fortune's Adam Lashinsky, broke the news that he was offered pre-IPO stock in Arista Networks. Lashinsky viewed the situation as an example of how Silicon Valley is living in its own ethical bubble and as well as the lengths some tech companies are willing to go to win favorable buzz. The plan was apparently known to the highest levels of the company including CEO Jayshree Ullal, Lashinsky reported at the time. We asked an Arista spokesperson why Arista was offering stock to journalists, if any accepted the offers and if Arista had since rescinded all of the offers. Arista had no comment. Bloomberg offered us this statement about the situation, "Our reporting speaks for itself." And since we're all in the mood for a disclosure, here's ours: Arista has not offered pre-IPO stock to reporters at Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Rising Rate Environment Won't Actually Be That Newsworthy (The Journal of Financial Planning via Nerd's Eye View)  Some investors may be antsy about the potential for rising interest rates. But Brent Burns, president and co-founder of Asset Dedication, says "the thing about a rising-rate environment is that it’s not actually going to be all that newsworthy." Talking to a roundtable for the Journal of Financial Planning, Burns says "...unlike the stock market, when interest rates rise—and we saw that in May and June of 2013—maybe you’d see a bond fund lose 5 percent, depending on its duration. You never see that big, dramatic, downward move like you would in the stock market." The other panelists also argued that the main role of bonds (especially short-term bonds) is not to generate high returns, but to act as a "shock absorber" for stocks.  There's A New ETF That Will Let You Bet Against People Who Are Betting Against Stocks (ETF Trends) Investors will soon be able to get their hands on a short-squeeze exchange traded fund (ETF) that will let them bet that heavily shorted stocks can do an about face. A short squeeze sees a heavily shorted stock — which investors have bet will see prices tumble — start to turnaround.    "The ETF’s managers will select U.S. stocks and American Depository Receipts that they believe may be subject to a “short squeeze” and lend portfolio securities that they believe may be subject to a short squeeze," writes Max Chen at ETFTrends. "Basically, the fund managers will pick out securities that have a higher potential for capital appreciation, which could result in a short squeeze." The ETF provided by ETFi is slated to trade under the ticker SQZZ. Advisors Should Build A Firm That They Can Sell (Reuters) A firm is an advisor's biggest asset, Waldemar Kohl, vice president of practice management for Fidelity Institutional Wealth Services told Robyn Post at Reuters. But research from Fidelity Investments has found that most independent advisors let their firms peter out once they retire, because they don't have plans in place to sell the firm, thereby cutting off a major source of income. To do this however advisors need to work ahead of time to ensure that the firm is ready to be purchased. "Cash flow can look great, but if you're a one-man band, it's not attractive to a buyer because when you go, the revenue goes," Nancy Nelson, a Washington-based planner told Post.  Individual Investors Need To Realize That Most Of Them Will Be Shut Out Of The Best Alternatives (The Wall Street Journal)  When alternative investments first came to the fore in the 1990s investors were pulled in on promises of high returns. At the time investors failed to understand that they were only being told about the returns of the best alternative managers, writes Gus Sauter, a senior consultant to Vanguard Group, in the WSJ.  "The new sales pitch is that alts may not produce as high a return as broadly available traditional funds, but they provide returns with lower risk," he writes. "The reality is, just like mutual funds, the best performing alts perform quite well, but the majority leave you wanting more. The problem that most individual investors face is that they won’t have access to the best performers." Advisor Pair Leaves Barclays For Merrill Lynch (Investment News) James Clarke and Philip Weyhe that together managed $285 million in assets, with over $2.5 million in production at Barclays Capital have left for Merrill Lynch, reports Minda Smiley at Investment News. "The team came to Merrill Lynch because they viewed our tools, technology and platform as stronger than those of our competitors,” a spokeswoman for Merrill Lynch told Smiley. "They were looking for a platform to support them as they continue to build their practice and serve clients over the next decade." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Chip EastHedge fund titan Carl IcahnCarl Icahn has taken a new 9.39% stake in Family Dollar, and shares of the discount retailer are surging. Shares of Family are up nearly 10% in after hours trade following disclosure of the stake.  In his filing, Icahn says he acquired the shares of Family Dollar, "in the belief that they were undervalued." On Twitter, Fox Business News' Charlie Gasparino reported that Carl Icahn said he will push for "some kind of merger," of Family Dollar with Dollar General as a possible partner. Shares of Dollar General are also up about 3.5% in after hours trade.  The filing adds that Icahn sees "great long-term potential" in Family Dollar's industry and believes its current situation is analogous to those faced by CVR Energy, Forest Labs, Chesapeake Energy and Biogen, other companies in which Icahn has been involved in the past.  FREE AppDownload
Shares of Keurig Green Mountain went crazy into the close today. Shares of the K-cup maker gained more than $9, or more than 8%, in the final two hours of trade to close at $122.07. Google Finance Theflyonthewall.com, and many on Twitter, noted an increase in call option volume in the stock.  A call option gives an investor the right to purchase a stock at a given price at a future date. The calls in question today were the June 13 expiration $120 calls. This table from Yahoo Finance shows the activity in Keurig options today. Circled in red is the trading volume in the June 13 calls, which traded more than 11,000 contracts, or more than five times any other contract. These contracts expire next Friday, when the contract owners will have the right to buy shares of Keurig at $120, regardless of the stock's market price. Yahoo Finance Trading in options contracts is what piqued the interest of regulators in the Carl Icahn and Phil Mickelson insider trading investigation.  On Twitter, The Street's Herb Greenberg noted that a late Friday move like for a stock is suspicious.  Earlier this year, Coca-Cola took a 10% stake in Keurig and the stock went nuts. Into the weekend, we'll be keeping an eye out.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hyungwon Kang  For one shining moment, Thomas Piketty's "Capital in the 21st Century" was the most talked about economics book of the year. Adulation came from all corners, including Larry Summers, a man some blamed for having helped loosen financial restrictions that led to ever-greater gains for the 1%. "Even in terms of income ratios, the gaps that have opened up between, say, the top .1 percent and the remainder of the top 10 percent are far larger than those that have opened up between the top 10 percent and average income earners," Summers wrote in his "Capital" review. "Even if none of Piketty’s theories stands up, the establishment of this fact has transformed political discourse and is a Nobel Prize-worthy contribution." Today, Summers has announced he is already over Piketty.   "Atif Mian and Amir Sufi’s House of Debt, despite some tough competition, looks likely to be the most important economics book of 2014," Summers writes in a post for the FT. "It could be the most important book to come out of the 2008 financial crisis and subsequent Great Recession." Mian and Sufi, professors at Princeton and the University of Chicago respectively, argue that what caused the Great Recession to be so great wasn't the banking sector blow-out, but rather overindebted households. The full title of the book turns out to be "House of Debt: How They (and You) [emphasis ours] Caused the Great Recession, and How We Can Prevent It from Happening Again." Here's how Summers' summarizes their case:  Households do not spend while they are still overly indebted, which precipitates slow growth even after banking is restored to health. Spending slowdowns are caused by household over-indebtedness, so of course they precede problems in the banking system. And, when consumers do not spend, businesses have less need to borrow to finance investment, inventories or receivables. This argument, Summers says, "is a major contribution that furthers our understanding of the crisis. It certainly affects what I will examine in trying to predict and forestall future crises." It was a good run, T.P. Read Summers' full review over at the FT » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Regis DuvignauFriday marked the 70th anniversary of the D-Day invasion. The Dow and the S&amp;P 500 again made a new record high following the May jobs report which showed the economy added 217,000 nonfarm payrolls. First, the scoreboard: Dow: 16,924.28, 88.2, 0.5%S&amp;P 500: 1,949.44, 9, 0.4%Nasdaq: 4,321.40, 25.2, 0.6% The top stories of the day: Don't Miss: Jay Carney's Embarrassing Call On The Russian Stock Market FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan / GettyGeneral Motors' miserable year continues as the automaker has announced four new recalls affecting 90,000 vehicles. This puts the total number of vehicles recalled in 2014 at about 14 million. Yesterday, GM announced it had dismissed 15 individuals implicated in an internal investigation over what led to problems with ignition switches going overlooked. The faulty parts have been blamed for causing hundreds of deaths over the course of a decade. GM's stock is down 11% YTD, though it's since recovered from April lows. FREE AppDownload
Americans move around a lot. More than one in ten people in the U.S. changed homes between March 2012 and March 2013, and their reasons for moving around varied. The Census analyzed current population survey data on the 11.3% of the population who moved between March 2012 and March 2013 to figure out what their reasons for moving were. This chart shows the breakdown of survey responses:  U.S. Census Bureau Almost half of movers changed homes for housing-related reasons, like wanting a better or cheaper house or apartment. A little over 12% of movers were people forming their own households. This usually consists of children moving out on their own. The Census also included a chart showing how these reasons have changed over time, comparing the percentages of movers giving different reasons in 1999 and 2013: U.S. Census Bureau Looking for cheaper housing, and miscellaneous housing and family reasons have become more common, while a smaller proportion of movers in 2013 wanted a new or better place to live than in 1999. FREE AppDownload
Chrysler2014 Jeep CherokeeChrysler Fiat announced this week that its U.S. auto sales in May jumped 17% over the same time last year, beating industry projections by 3%.  In fact, with more than 849,000 cars sold so far this year, the much-maligned automaker is having its best year in nearly a decade.  Much of this year's sales turnaround can be attributed to the company's Jeep and Ram Truck divisions, whose sales have increased by 49% and 24% respectively. But can this sales surge last? Jeep's stellar performance can be traced to the introduction of new products like the Jeep Cherokee and revitalized existing models like the Jeep Wrangler. While, Jeep, as a brand, is likely to grow in the near future, don't expect it to maintain this bullish pace. Sales figures for the controversially styled Cherokee are likely to fall after the initial pool of early adopters and fanboys run dry.MSVG via Compfight cc2013 Dodge DartThe Cherokee could even meet the same fate as the last year's hot-selling Dodge Dart which, like the Cherokee, sold well initially based on early adopter hype, but has since fallen on hard times. The Dart, which the company had hoped would become a sales leader, has seen its sales spiral downward 20% just two years after its launch. Even more troubling is the all new Dart's inability to outsell its older and now discontinued stablemate, the Dodge Avenger. The Dart wasn't the only Chrysler product to struggle this year. In fact, Jeep and Ram's success puts into sharp focus the slumping sales of Chrysler Group's entire passenger car line. The company's Chrysler, Dodge, and Fiat brands have seen car sales fall 27% in May and 23% for the year.Chrysler 2015 Chrysler 200However, there may be glimmer of hope for Chrysler's passenger car business as their is strong buzz surrounding the company's 2015 Chrysler 200 sedan, which is set to hit showrooms en masse next month. While strong demand for the new 200 may be able to cushion some drop in Jeep or Ram sales, it will be difficult for Chrysler Fiat to sustain this level of sales growth consistently. But the company may just surprise us all and continue its hot streak.    FREE AppDownload
If you're reading this story in the U.S., you're probably someone who's heard a lot about Bitcoin, but doesn't know anyone who actually owns any. If you're a European reading this story outside the Eurozone, or perhaps a resident of Hong Kong or Russia, the reverse may be true: A majority of your compatriots may not have heard of Bitcoin, but anyone sophisticated enough to have read up on it now likely owns some.   As Bitcoin enters its fifth year in the wild, its largest concentrations of users can now be found not in the U.S. — which enjoys a stable banking system and a galaxy of existing mobile payments services — but rather in places where Bitcoin's core offerings — a hedge against inflation, a means of quickly executing transactions over long distances  — can actually be tapped into.  "The reality is that in North America, consumers have access to a fairly decent set of financial services," Peter Smith, COO of Bitcoin wallet firm Blockchain, told BI in an email. "This isn't the case in the majority of the world. In fact, a huge portion of the world has little to no access to anything that would give them an even base level of financial capabilities."  Here is what the chart looks like for per-capita downloads of Bitcoin software from SourceFourge. In the lead are all the countries in Europe that have not yet adopted the Euro. The U.S. ranks 15th. SourceForge On a currency basis, RMB-denominated Bitcoin trades now outrank USD despite a seemingly never ending stream of threats out of the People's Bank's of China that they'll end all transactions. BitcoinCharts  The list of most Bitcoin nodes, or Bitcoin transaction confirmation servers, by population also shows the U.S. barely cracks the top 10, although there is a bit of a skew towards countries with cooler climates.Bitnodes.ioEven in Europe, there are more than a dozen countries who don't use the euro, making cross-border transactions on the continent problematic.  Ironically, overall investments remain concentrated in the U.S., though that may simply be a function that this is where the money is. Still, a third of all Bitcoin VC funds are now outside the U.S.Coindesk In an interview with BI last month, Jeremy Allaire, the founder of digital currency payments startup Circle, admitted that while the service is aimed at 18-34 year-olds across the world who have digitized everything else in their lives, he said he wouldn't be surprised if there were inordinate concentrations of adoption in places like Turkey and Brazil with shaky sovereigns. "We’ll be watching to see organically where pockets of users come," he said.  Further evidence can be found at Bitpay, which just closed on the largest-ever round of funding for a Bitcoin investment firm. The location of the firm's newest office? Amsterdam. Its other two offices outside its Atlanta base are in Buenos Aires and Montreal.  Smith named Russia, Indonesia, Malaysia, East Africa and South America as Bitcoin's next major growth regions, thanks to their "wildly volatile" currencies and/or large underbanked populations.  "At Blockchain.info, we are seeing huge growth come from emerging markets," Smith said.  It's worth pointing out that Blockchain itself is a firm based outside London but run by at least two Americans. FREE AppDownload
Joe Raedle / Getty Images Consumer credit climbed $26.85 billion in April, nearly doubling expectations for $15 billion. Last month came in at $17.53 billion. At a 10.2%, consumer credit is now growing at the fastest pace of growth since July 2011. Bloomberg's Michael McDonough observes credit card spending levels jumped by $8.8 billion, the largest monthly gain since November 2007.  Full release » FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Arko Datta"Sometimes I look at these guys resumes and I say, you're kind of f---d man," said Jesse Marrus, founder of Wall Street recruiting site StreetID. The guys are traders, without a doubt the rowdiest, riskiest bunch on Wall Street with a very singular skill. And right now demand for that skill is plummeting. The market is quiet so it's hard for them to make money. Without the money they bring in, shops — banks, hedge funds, trading firms etc. — can't afford to keep expensive employees they don't really need. So a lot of traders are about to be let go, and since their skills are so niche, there aren't many place they can go. Think of this as a game of musical chairs, except the chair is your entire livelihood. "The first six months of the year were crazy for hiring," said Marrus, "then it hit the breaks. Hard... If you're not coming from one of the top funds, CFA, Ivy education, and if you haven't run $500 million you're not getting the job." Firms don't mind keeping these positions open for years, either. They want to right candidate, and that's usually someone younger (think ages 26 to 33 roughly) who hasn't jumped from shop to shop and fits a specific sector or specialty (casinos, food and beverage what-have-you). The worst part about this is that it hasn't been long since the last mass trader culling. Back in 2010, new post-financial crisis regulation forced banks to break up proprietary trading desks. The best traders in the exodus found jobs at hedge funds or smaller, less regulated shops. Some, especially older more expensive guys, left The Street forever. The ones that survived that round may not survive this one, especially since the word among hedge fund head hunters is that a lot of traders that made the transition from banks to hedge funds aren't working out. They don't always grasp the way hedge funds handle risk or manage portfolios. With hedge fund performance down like it is now, they'll be the first to go. "Unfortunately there's no simple answer," said Adam Grealish, founder of RoleTroll, a startup that uses algorithms to find jobs for financial professionals. Grealish himself was a quant trader that got let go in the 2010 deluge. That's when he started building the technology behind RoleTroll. It helped him get a job at Goldman in a few months, so he put the project on the back burner. He realized, though, that in this market, it's too good a project to pass up. He designed his product to be something Wall Streeters could set and forget. Upload your resume and the program does the rest. It's especially great for the traders that see the axe before it falls, and are looking for somewhere to land. "You're generally out 1,2,3 times a week with clients," Grealish explained. "You don't have a lot of time for yourself and when you do have that time you're relaxing." It's important to add that technology also plays a role here too. All trading is going electronic. It happened first in the stock market, and now it's happening in the bond market — the last holdouts still talking on their squawk boxes. "I've had people cry to me, and it's difficult to hear and I went through in myself," said Michael Freeburg, a former floor trader who started his own wealth management firm, Greenwich Wealth Management LLC, 13 years ago. "I'm glad I did it before the financial crisis.... Right now I wouldn't want to be doing it in my 50s. Freeburg left The Street as electronic trading started to take hold. These days — and in the last 4 years — he's getting a lot of calls from people he knew from the floor. "The fact is, not too many people care about fat cat Wall Streeters losing their jobs and not being able to a make a million bucks or whatever," said Freeburg, "but they're real people and it's real pain and effects their families and it's painful to watch and hear." FREE AppDownload
The stock was priced at $43 late Thursday, above the original range of $36-$40 and it soared from there, opening at $55.25 and rising to a high of $60 at one point, with more than 5 million shares changing hands. It's now trading slightly below that high mark. Arista wooed investors with something they haven't seen in the tech sector IPO market for a while: profits. Revenues nearly doubled from $193.4 million in 2012 to $361.2 million in 2013, and in that same time profits doubled, too, from $21.4 million to $42.5 million. Plus, Arista has some huge customers, and it plays in a hot market, corporate computer network equipment. That's an area that is undergoing a lot of change, in part thanks to Arista Networks. Plus the company's CEO, Jayshree Ullal, is well respected in the field. She was one of the top engineers at its rival Cisco before Arista lured her away.  (We've previously called her the "Marissa Mayer of the computer networking world.") And its pedigree goes far deeper than Ullal. It was founded by billionaires David Cheriton and Andy Bechtolsheim, who famously provided seed money to Google in 1998. Bechtolsheim is perhaps best known as a cofounder of Sun. Cheriton is known as "Professor Billionaire," tenured at Stanford. This is their third company together. Investors are also clearly unconcerned with the scandals that have circled the company since it submitted its IPO paperwork. That includes Cheriton suddenly leaving the company in March when Arista announced its IPO. His other startup, OptumSoft, slapped Arista with a lawsuit. The dispute centers on ownership of the software that powers Arista's products. Cheriton is Arista's largest shareholder, so the lawsuit is almost like Cheriton suing himself, legal experts say. Arista was also accused of some dubious behavior when tech journalist Adam Lashinsky revealed that Arista offered him pre-IPO shares of the stock. That offer seemed like some sort of bribe.  Those things aside, Arista's business is solid, booming, and likely to continue that way, which is clearly exciting to investors. Arista makes an important piece of hardware for big corporate networks called a switch. The switch can be controlled through software, a big trend that is sweeping through the network industry. Such software-programmable networks have become critical for cloud computing. Arista names Facebook, Microsoft and Yahoo as customers as well as companies like Barclays, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley, Comcast, Equinix, ESPN and Rackspace. FREE AppDownload
The latest jobs report showed that U.S. companies added 217,000 nonfarm payrolls in May. The unemployment rate also remained unchanged at 6.3%. BLS breaks down payrolls data by a number of factors, including education level.  For those with a bachelor's degree or higher, the unemployment rate was just 3%, significantly lower than the national average.  Additionally, unemployment among those who have completed some college or graduated from high school and completed no college is also better than the national average, coming in at 5.3% and 6.1%, respectively.  It is only when you get to those who dropped out of high school that the unemployment rate tops the national average, with 8.5% of those unemployed. On Twitter, Justin Wolfers put this data into chart form. Justin Wolfers via Twitter It's important to keep in mind that the data changes for recent college graduates. Last year, the BLS showed that the unemployment rates for anyone who graduated between 2007 and 2011 stood at 12.6%.  Last week, BI's Mamta Badkar detailed how insanely expensive college is about to get. With unemployment among college graduates far below the national average, students and families looking at the skyrocketing cost of college face some tough choices in the face of some clear data. FREE AppDownload
GettyPharrell Williams and Robin Thicke perform at Wal-Mart's annual shareholders meeting Friday.In a giant coliseum early Friday morning, singer Pharrell Williams performed his hit song "Happy" and shouted to throngs of screaming fans: "Make some noise for Wal-Mart!" He wasn't paid to say that. He wasn't even paid to perform at the event, not a major concert but the annual Wal-Mart shareholders' meeting in Fayetteville, Ark. Musicians Robin Thicke, Sarah McLaughlin, Aloe Blacc and Harry Connick Jr. also performed Friday, free of cost. These stars usually command six-figure payments for performances and appearances. So what's in it for them? "Every entertainer that is here has something to do with our business," Wal-Mart spokesperson Dianna Gee told MSNBC during last year's equally star-studded event. "There’s some connection from the business, whether it’s CDs, books, or t-shirts." Film studios and record labels "really work with us" to recruit the performers, she added. Her explanation makes sense. As one of the world's largest retailers, Wal-Mart has access to 35 million shoppers daily. If the company decides to feature a DVD or album, sales of those items could spike. A Wal-Mart spokesman confirmed to Business Insider that none of this year's celebrities were paid for their appearances. Last year, Kelly Clarkson, Jennifer Hudson, John Legend, Tom Cruise, and Hugh Jackman performed at the meeting.   This year's event drew about 14,000 people, including workers and shareholders, from around the world. The meeting is mostly a pep rally of sorts, with celebrity performances punctuated by speeches from Wal-Mart executives on their plans for the future of the company.  Here's a look at Friday's festivities. First, Pharrell Williams performed "Happy."Getty Then Robin Thicke joined him on stage. Getty Despite the early hour — it was about 7 a.m. local time — the crowd went wild.Getty Harry Connick Jr. sang a song and also served as the master of ceremonies.Getty Sarah McLaughlin slowed things down with her somber hit, "Will You Remember Me." Getty The meeting ended with a performance by Aloe Blacc, who sang "Wake Me Up."Wal-Mart FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Giampiero SpositoItaly's World Cup squadYesterday, the ECB took the unprecedented step of taking interest rates into negative territory.  Draghi's decision came after the close of European markets, but U.S. stocks rallied yesterday. Today, its been Europe's turn to run higher.  Leading the gains are markets on the European periphery, namely Italy and Spain, with both countries seeing strength in both their bond and stock markets. Italian 10-year bonds are trading 9 basis points, or 0.09%, lower than yesterday at 2.84%. Spanish 10-years are down 8 basis points to 2.74%, according to data from Bloomberg.  Spain's IBEX stock exchange is up more than 1.6%, and the Spanish FTSE MIB Index is up 1.4%.  Today's action in Italian and Spanish bonds comes amid a strong year across the European periphery, including Portugal and Greece, which have seen yields on 10-year government bonds drop by more than 2% and 3%, respectively.  Markets in the U.K., France, and Germany are also stronger, as the market seems to be taking Draghi's bold actions seriously. FREE AppDownload
Twitter/@jbenderyOutgoing White House press secretary Jay Carney called the bottom in Russian stocks. By accident. Back on March 18, in response to a question regarding investing in Russia, Carney said he wouldn't recommend investing in Russian equities, "unless you're going short."  Since the first day of trading following that comment, the RSX exchange traded fund that tracks the Russian stock market is up more than 11%.  Carney was asked the question regarding after the Russia's stock market had surged following the initial round of sanctions announced by the White House following the Russian annexation of Crimea.  Here is the full exchange, via the White House press site: Q:  The Russian stock market is soaring the last couple days. Is this a sign that the sanctions that we’ve taken are ineffective if they’re not really paying a cost? In reality, it’s up about 8, 9 percent in the last couple days, their main stock exchange. MR. CARNEY: I think it’s down for the year and I think the ruble has lost value. And I think that the long-term effect of actions taken by the Russian government... will have an impact on their economy all by themselves. They will also incur costs because of the sanctions that we and the EU have imposed, and there will be more actions taken under the authorities that exist with the two executive orders that the President has signed. So I wouldn’t, if I were you, invest in Russian equities right now -- unless you’re going short." Recently, tensions in Ukraine, which lead to the U.S. and Europe imposing sanctions on Russian businessmen, have eased some, with Russia recently withdrawing troops from the Ukrainian border.  The situation in Ukraine isn't over by a long shot, but with tensions seeming to have eased some since Ukraine's recent elections, investors are pouring money back into Russian stocks. But as Jim Grant's call last month about the investment merit of Russian energy behemoth Gazprom showed, investors are quick to hold their nose when any investment opportunity presents itself. Here is the RSX's performance since Carney's comments. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Tony Gentile/ReutersDo you remember when Dr. Evil was going to hold the world ransom for $1,000,000? This is what we are facing today in Solar – the Dr. Evil ultimatum. The cost to get Solar to coal parity is going to be laughably tiny. The cost sounds like a lot of money to old people, or to people who haven’t thought it through, or to people who do not know how large world GDP is today and how much we spend on energy already. But the cost is tiny, and China laughed when they found out the cost. I’ve been in a twitter argument with Michael Shellenberger. Michael Shellenberger is a sharp guy, so please read what he has to say on Solar. But I think he is missing the big picture about solar. He is: This is a great approach for something like the a handheld computer like the iPhone, as Steve Jobs found out the hard way with the Newton. But with solar, he’s missing the biggest driver and reason solar is happening today and not 25 years in the future. Solar is happening right now because China needs Solar to be cheaper than coal in China. Pollution is terrible in China. We’ve all see the pictures of China’s pollution problem, but here is one just as a fresh reminder of how bad it is there. China decided back in 2000 they wanted needed to go green due to what was obviously going to be a massive environmental problem. I had friends tell me pollution was  a terrible problem for China in the early 2000’s. Everyone in China knew this was a problem that had to get worse because they needed the electricity and energy. China needed a solution to provide huge amounts of cheap electricity and not cause pollution. There are not many ways to do this. Solar was one possible path to clean and cheap energy way back in 2000, but it was very expensive then, and could not supply much capacity because there were few Solar production facilities. So the Chinese leadership asked a question: “How much will it cost to make Solar Cheaper than Coal? This question has an answer. It turned out to be a dollar value China was willing to pay. The dollar answer to this question requires knowing a few stylized facts about solar: Analysts at places like McKinsey make models based on observations like this all the time. Industries are given estimated growth rates, and end up with some level of market penetration, with some mitigating factors and limits. Swanson’s law predicted 20% price declines for every doubling of installed capacity. Since capacity was so low in the early 2000’s, doubling total world capacity a few times would cost just a few billion dollars. The Chinese leadership turned the model on its head, and asked how much it would cost to get them to get Solar cheaper than coal. I can imagine the conversation between the Chinese leadership and the engineers who were asking for funding. “We have a looming environmental problem due to wanting much more electricity.” “What are some possible solutions?” “Solar could one day be cheaper and solve both the cost and pollution problems.” “How much money do you need to find out?” “A lot, about $10 billion” At this point the leadership fall on the floor laughing. China is a country where they build entire ghost cities with nobody in them. They build massive public transportation systems in 15 yearsbecause they can. Spending $10bn to find out if they can solve both energy and pollution was completely worth it to them. China found out something even more interesting when they asked this question about the total cost to get Solar to coal parity. The initial, upfront costs to investigating solar would be comically trivial, and they could stop at any time. Finding out if Solar was a possible solution to the energy/pollution problem would be relatively cheap. I suspect China decided to test Swanson’s law in the 10th plan from 2001-2005. When Swanson’s law held up, they decided to dramatically up production during the 11th plan. This production build out caused the huge price drop in 2008, when the factories built in 2006-2007 began shipping in 2008. Today in the 12th guideline from 2011-2015, China is pushing production to see if they can get cheaper than coal sooner rather than later because pollution is so bad. Environmentalism is a guiding principle in the 12th guideline – mentioned on page three! The environment is clearly an important part of the Chinese plan – not many ideas are mentioned in the guiding principles, and China takes these principles seriously. Look at how many times sustainable growth is mentioned in the guiding principles. It turns out Solar will be cheaper than coal for China very, very soon. SunTech estimates Solar will be cost competitive with coal power in China by 2016 and 2017 at the latest. This is in line with what people expect for Solar parity in the United States, given the cost of coal based power. Still, let’s assume SunTech exaggerating, and the time for Solar/coal parity is really 2018. Both parts of this assumption are reasonable. Suntech is probably exaggerating the time for Solar to get cost competitive with coal. But it can’t be more than a year or two, because electricity is so much more expensive in China than it is in the United States. (Aside: Swanson’s law probably needs to be modified a bit. Swanson’s law uses installed capacity as the driver for prices. The driver for solar prices is probably “total potential manufacturing capacity of current solar PV manufacturers”.  I am certain someone important in China noticed this by 2008 at the latest.) Coal power is expensive in China, simply because they need to import coal from Australia. China can’t make the cost of coal lower with cheap wages. Industrial users in China should pay about 80% more for electricity as similar users do here in the United States. So if unsubsidized Solar is about double the cost of coal here – which we know was true a lifetime year ago – then Solar must be close to coal parity in China today. It’s important to note electricity prices for China are massively subsidized by the Chinese government even if companies are not paying the cost. Here is a Bloomberg article on this important topic: “Support to industry totaled about 10 percent of gross domestic product, according to a 2010 study led by Huang Yiping, vice president of the National School of Development at Peking University and former chief Asia economist at Citigroup Inc. That equals about $593 billion.” So how much was the total cost to China to make Solar Cheaper than their cost for coal power in 2018? It’s going to cost China a total of about a trillion dollars. It will cost China about 2 years of their existing subsidies to make their energy costs cheaper than dirty coal. China is and was willing to pay this amount to get cheaper, cleaner energy. Again, remember this $1 trillion was not an all up front cost. China was able to invest about $10 billion over the years 2001-2005 to find out if this could possibly work. China then invested another $100bn to completely dominate the world solar panel market and bring prices close to coal parity in 2006-2010. When Swanson’s law held during this expansion, they decided to go all in, make true parity an explicit goal, and so will spend another $900 billion, for a total of around a trillion dollars. The total cost to the world is roughly $10 trillion USD. It’s going to take longer to get to coal parity everywhere, so the total amount is going to be high for the entire world. Still, this is a tiny amount of money. That’s right, over the 10 years Solar is getting cheaper than coal, it will cost about 1% of total GDP. The total cost to the world to get cheaper, clean energy is about 12% of 1 year of GDP. World GDP in 2012 was 84 trillion. During that time, the world will spend about 8-10% of GDP on energy. This ends up being roughly $100 trillion on energy over the same time span. Here is a link to the spreadsheet I used to get these numbers, called Solar Growth. Note I’ve overestimated China’s investment according to recent figures. Recent figures put it at 20% of the world investment, but I used 40% in this spreadsheet. Lowering the investment to 20% vastly reduces China’s cost calculation. I don’t have the numbers yet, but it’s pretty clear we’re going to save giant portions of GDP every year by 2030. We’re talking saving 3%+ a year, and growing! This could raise our long term growth rate to 5% or more. (Take that Piketty! That’s for another post.) Much of the decline in price was driven by China’s decision, even if the costs are shared globally. You might see a few important things missing in the spreadsheet, which would make the cost actually paid by China far, far lower than $1 trillion. All of these points would reduce China’s paid out cost to get them to cheap, clean energy. The next 5 year guideline spans from 2016-2020. This is the time frame in which SunTech expects solar to be cheaper than coal in China. I expect another massive build-out for China Solar which greatly exceeds expectations as Solar is economically cheaper than coal for China. Then in 2021-2025, the build will be vast – think Shanghai skyline over 1995-2000 Many people are calling for thousands of coal plants to be built in China in the years from 2020 to 2030. However, if you think about it from the perspective of how China has acted in the past, this does not make much sense. China has shown again and again it is willing to make what appears to be insane levels of investment to achieve goals. I contend given the current levels of pollution in China, paying a modest premium for energy is completely worth it to them. If Solar ends up being the same cost as coal in just a few years, China will shift over to Solar power in an astonishing way. They will just stop building coal plants, and build an incredible amount of Solar plants instead. Look at what China did in Shanghai. The city was entirely transformed in 20 years. China put up the equivalent of Chicago in 20 years. Why would their response to cheap, clean energy be different? It won’t. China had a Dr. Evil moment with Solar, where it was shocked at how little it would cost to get clean energy. They tested Solar and it worked as expected. China is now laughing as they almost certainly preparing to roll out a truly huge amount of solar in the next 10 years. This is going to drive down Solar prices far more rapidly than anyone expects. They are beginning to put together the information for the next 5 year guideline today and it looks great for Solar. The capacity China will add beginning in 2016 is likely to exceed even the highest estimates, simply because the combination of lower cost and pollution-free energy will be so compelling to China. This article originally appeared at Monetary Realism.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The diamond industry has successfully manipulated the supply and demand to increase prices. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
For the last few years, big data has been changing science, advertising, and how we shop for things. But data put in the hands of the public can also sometimes make life a little easier and fairer. In April, I Quant NY, a blog run by Pratt Institute statistics professor Ben Wellington, used parking ticket data made public by the city government to find fire hydrants that had a disproportionate number of tickets. He found two hydrants in particular on Forsyth St. in Manhattan that had an absurdly high rate of getting cars ticketed. Between August 2013 and March 2014 , one of the hydrants had 187 tickets, and the other had 139. That works out, at $115 per ticket, to $37,490 in that eight month period in parking fines, or over $55,000 per year. How were so many New Yorkers getting tickets at just these two hydrants? I Quant NY looked at Google Street View images of the parking spaces in front of the hydrants, and saw that they were misleadingly labeled. Here's the hydrant that had 187 tickets, across from 152 Forsyth St: I Quant NY/Google Street View First, there does appear to be an actual legitimate parking space painted on the street in front of the hydrant. Second, there is a bike lane or extended curb between the hydrant and the space, and according to the city DOT, this should mean that a person can legally park there. A similar situation happened down the street at the hydrant with 139 tickets, across from 91-131 Forsyth: I Quant NY/Google Street View There's a bike lane or extended curb, and no signs or paint indicating that this is not a parking space. This lack of clarity was pretty unfair to drivers, and the story took off across the internet. Fortunately, the DOT took note. In a new post, I Quant NY reports that the spaces in front of the hydrants have been repainted to make it clear that they are not legitimate parking spots. Here's a recent picture of the worst hydrant across from 152 Forsyth: I Quant NY Those diagonal lines will save New Yorkers tens of thousands of dollars a year. I Quant NY points out how this has been a great example of how the public can use open data to fix problems and fill in analytical gaps when officials miss things: 'This may be a small victory for the Open Data movement, but it’s an important one. And it is the proof that anyone can use Open Data, the internet and great sites like reddit to improve our neighborhoods and our great city, one small discovery at a time." FREE AppDownload
Facebook/ Detroit Sheep and GoatsWe know JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon said his firm would do its part to help Detroit with a $100 million investment, but it seems he's not the only Wall Streeter trying to find a solution for another problem the city is facing—overgrown grass.  Hedge fund manager Mark Spitznagel—the founder of $6 billion Universa Investments— let 20 goats loose in Brightmoor, one of Detroits most run-down neighborhoods, DealBook reports. It's part of what Spitznagel, who owns Alpine goat farm and creamery farm Idyll Farms, calls an "urban farming experiment." Basically, the goats are acting as natural lawnmowers. Spitznagel is known for his negative predictions about the market. He made a killing betting things would go south in 2008. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidSteven Englander, a currency analyst at Citi, has a great explanation of what today's jobs report means for investors. Basically, no narrative has changed. If you think that the easy money parade will continue, then nothing from today's report changed that. So from an investor viewpoint, there is a very nonthreatening run-up to the June 18 FOMC. There is no reason for the Fed to change its narrative. Any investor who came into the labor market release thinking that policy and markets rates would be on a slow path to a low terminal level has no reason to change that view. Carry trades get another month of life. FREE AppDownload
jovialiste.files.wordpress.comHere's something interesting from Deutsche Bank, which shows what a weird year 2014 has been. Every one of these economic facts has happened this year: (1) A narrower trading range in dollar/euro than renminbi spot (2) Irish 10-year bond yields below both UK Gilts and US Treasuries (3) Japan as the country with the highest inflation rate among advanced economies (4) Stronger first quarter output growth in the eurozone periphery than in America (5) BIITS equity markets up double digits in dollar terms on average (6) A Greek government primary surplus (7) Iron ore prices down a third and nickel up a third despite both used primarily to make steel (8) A drop of 200,000 unemployed in the periphery but a rise in unemployment across the rest of the eurozone (9) America’s trade deficit (goods and services combined as a percentage of output) being smaller than Japan’s (10) Best performing stock market: Argentina. 2014 has been a pretty brutal year for a lot of investors. These facts explain why. FREE AppDownload
Keith Williamson / FlickrThere is a new ETF coming to market that will let investors bet that heavily shorted stocks will turn around, ETF Trends reports.  ETF Trends reports that a new "short squeeze" fund from ETFis is set to trade under the ticker 'SQZZ.' The ETF will seek to outperform the microcap Russell 2000 index, which tracks shares of smaller companies. An ETF, or exchange traded fund, is a publicly traded fund that contains a basket of assets and trades like a stock on an exchange.  A "short squeeze" happens when a stock that is heavily shorted, or a stock investors have bet will go down in price, surges higher. A short squeeze results because fewer shares of a company are available for purchase. Since those betting against a stock must borrow the shares, fewer shares remain for sale and can quickly get bid higher due to a lack of supply.  This is basically what happened to shares of Herbalife last year, for instance. Prices soared to more than $70 from about $30 after Carl Icahn took a massive stake in the company following Bill Ackman's presentation December 2012 that said the company would go out of business. Taking the opposite side of stocks that are heavily shorted is a risky, but not unpopular, strategy among traders who are betting that the principles of supply and demand will make a stock go higher. As volatility dries up on Wall Street, this fund is yet another example of how investors can expand their "search for yield." (ETF Trends via @ReformedBroker) FREE AppDownload
Wal-Mart is America's biggest retailer. The company's annual shareholder meeting kicks off today in Fayetteville, Ark. We compiled some facts about Wal-Mart that will blow your mind:  Mike Nudelman/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
BI SourceBanker Frank Quattrone on the fairway. It's that time of the year again when Wall Street starts leaving the trading floor for the golf course.  We combed through the latest handicap data of some of the Street's biggest names on GHIN—a website run by the U.S. Golf Association— to see how they stack up against each other on the fairway. Some of these golfers are very, very talented, while others could use a bit more practice. Take Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein for instance. He seems to find shooting low scores a difficult endeavor. Keep in mind, the higher the handicap number, the worse the player is in comparison to others with lower handicaps. Also, JPMorgan's CEO Jamie Dimon doesn't golf. His two predecessors at JPMorgan were members of the prestigious Augusta National Golf Club though.  FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via NBC OlympicsThe May jobs report is out, and markets have opened higher. The Dow is up 48 points (0.3%), the S&amp;P 500 is up 5 points (0.2%), and the Nasdaq is up 15 points (0.3%).  U.S. companies added 217,000 nonfarm payrolls in May, in-line with with the 215,000 that had been expected by economists. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 6.3%.  The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond is at about 2.56%.  In corporate news, Wal-Mart is currently hosting its annual shareholders meeting. To mark the occasion, here are 14 amazing facts about Wal-Mart.  UPS also announced that its COO David Abney will be taking over the CEO role on September 1.  FREE AppDownload
We just hit a big milestone with today's jobs report. We've finally recovered all of the jobs lost during the recession. We needed 113,000 jobs today to do it and easily cleared that bar with a gain of 217,000 jobs in May. Of course because of population growth, we're still "behind" in terms of total jobs, but at least this is one benchmark that's been cleared. For a long time we've been running this chart from Calculated Risk, showing how deep this jobs recession has been compared to past ones, and our nickname for it has been the Scariest Jobs Chart Ever. But that chart is now dead. We've recovered all the lost jobs. It took a preposterously long time, but this chart is over. Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
You really can have it all. And there's a science behind getting it. These tips will help you infliuence people to do what you want them to do. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
REUTER/Steve MarcusThe May jobs report showed the U.S. companies added 217,000 nonfarm payrolls for month. The unemployment rate is unchanged 6.3%. The headline numbers from this report didn't have any curveballs, as it was essentially right in line with expectations.  Expectations were for nonfarm payrolls to grow 215,000, with the unemployment rate ticking up to 6.4%. Private payrolls grew by 216,000. Expectations were for private payrolls to grow by 210,000. The labor force participation rate is unchanged  at 62.8%. Average hours worked were unchanged at 34.5. The year-over-year change in hourly earnings edged up to 2.1% from 1.9% last month. Month-over-month average hourly earnings edged up 0.2%, in line with expectations.  Last month, nonfarm payrolls grew by 288,000, and the unemployment rate fell to 6.3% from 6.7%.  Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders told BI the reading will serve as confirmation for the Fed that their bond-purchasing taper rate is right where it should be.  "[Payroll growth] was pretty broad — it wasn’t concentrated in one specific industry," she said. "And it wasn’t heavily biased up by labor force participation — the innards of number don't change the fact that it was a pretty decent number." Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth says those who attributed Q1 economic weakness to the U.S.' harsh winter have won the argument. "The robust 217,000 increase in non-far payrolls in May is another illustration that the economy is back on the right track after the weather-related weakness during the winter," he writes. "May's gain followed an even stronger 282,000 increase in April, although we suspect that the latter was boosted a little by the unwinding of the earlier weather distortion." BTIG's Dan Greenhaus observed (via Kelly Evans) that this is the first time we've had four-straight months of 200,o00 jobs growth since 1999. "It didn't happen once during hte last expansion, when average job growth was "just" 184,000." With today's reading, and after nearly seven years, we are back to a new all-time high in overall payrolls. Rob Wile, data from FRED The latest jobs report comes on the heels of unprecedented action from the ECB yesterday, which took interest rates into negative territory.  The economy is also on the cusp of achieving the total employment rate reached in early 2008. The economy needs to add just 113,000 jobs to reach January 2008's record nonfarm payrolls total of 138,365,000. These charts from BI's Rob Wile show how jobs data has changed over the last four years. Rob Wile, data from FRED Rob Wile, data from FRED Rob Wile / FRED Data Rob Wile / FRED Data More to come... FREE AppDownload
REUTERSBritish World War II veteran Frederick Glover poses for a photograph as soldiers parachute down during a D-Day commemoration paratroopers launch event in Ranville, northern France, on June 5, 2014Good morning and Happy Jobs Day! Here's what you need to know. It's Jobs Day! At 8:30 a.m. the BLS will release its employment situation report. Consensus is for 215,000, down from 288,000 in April. The employment rate is expected to tick up 10 bps to 6.4%. Goldman's Payrolls Forecast. Goldman's prediction is even lower, at 210,000. "Payroll gains have averaged 238k over the last three months, but the May employment data flow looks more mixed," the firm's David Mercie writes. "As a result, we expect May to come in a bit below the trend-like rate of about 225k that we expect as growth accelerates in 2014."  Barclays Unemployment Rate Forecast. Barclays sees the unemployment rate holding firm. "We look for the unemployment rate to stay unchanged at 6.3% in May," the firm said in a note. "Although there may be some increase in the labor force participation rate after last month’s 0.4pp drop, we expect the solid pace of job growth to absorb re-entrants and leave the unemployment rate unchanged." New Largest Lehman-Era Fine. The Wall Street Journal reports the government will settle with Bank of America over alleged Lehman-era mortgage fraud for more than $12 billion, topping the previous record settlement held by JP Morgan.  Record-Low Eurozone Yields. The ECB's decision to tip interest rates on deposits into negative territory has sparked a fresh surge into continental treasury notes, the FT says. "Italy and Spain's 10-year bond yields fell about 13 basis points each to 2.8% and 2.68% respectively, new record lows. Greece's benchmark bond yield fell 25 bp to 5.86%, below the 6 per cent mark for the first time in a month. Portugal and Ireland's 10-year yields also fell 10 bp to 3.51% and 2.48% respectively, a new record low in Dublin's case." UBS: Draghi's Weak Sauce. The ECB chief Mario Draghi's negative rates decision was as expected as it was unprecedented, and UBS rate strategies chief Justin Knight is not impressed, arguing it failed to amount to another "whatever it takes moment" like the one Mario Draghi conjured in 2012, the FT reports. "Notably, after an initial sell-off, the euro recovered late in European trading against the dollar," Knight writes. "The ECB's policy decisions will have only modest impacts on interest differentials and relative central bank balance sheet size. To the extent the euro weakens against the dollar this year—as we expect—depreciation is more likely to be driven by improving US growth and rising US interest rates." Walmart Investor Day. Shareholders convene in Bentonville Friday. On the docket: " appointing an independent board chairman, and a say-on-pay measure designed to curb executive compensation," USA Today reports. Jos. A. Bank Earnings. Analysts are expecting $0.40 share and revenue of $216 million. Consumer Credit. At 3 p.m. we get consumer credit data from the Fed. Consensus is for $15 billion, down from $17.5 billion prior. Markets. U.S. futures and European stocks were higher. Equities in Asia closed down. The U.S. 10-year note was at 2.50%.  FREE AppDownload
Today could be a historic day in the history of the American economic recovery. As Annalyn Kurtz points out, the US 113,000 jobs away from the total employment peak that was reached in early 2008. The peak of US non-farm payroll employment was January 2008, when there were 138,365,000 Americans employed As of last month, that number stoo at 138,252,000. Of course, this doesn't mean we'll have fully recovered. Because of economic and population growth, America still has an employment problem. But finally, we'll have cleared this one level, which has taken far too long. FRED FREE AppDownload
 A chart we found on Reddit.com (click the graphic above to see a larger version) shows that most products we buy are controlled by just a few companies. It's called The Illusion of Choice. Ever wonder why you can't get a Coke at Taco Bell? It's because Yum Brands was created as a spin-off of Pepsi — and has a lifetime contract with the soda maker. Unilever produces everything from Dove soap to Klondike bars. Nestle has a big stake in L'Oreal, which features everything from cosmetics to Diesel designer jeans. Despite a wide array of brands to choose from, it all comes back to the big guys. 
Psst. Going to let you in on a secret. There's a trick to watching today's Jobs Report like a Wall Street pro. Don't pay too much attention to how many jobs are created, and what the unemployment rate is. That's what the media cares about. What you want to watch is wages. Sharply rising wages indicate a tightening labor market, and will get the market spooked that the Fed will raise rates soon. Subdued wages indicate there's no pressure on Yellen to hike ever. So if you want to watch the Jobs Report like a Wall Street insider, pay attention to this number.  Here's the chart of year over year average hourly earnings growth. As you can see, it's obviously picked up quite a bit over the last several months, but it's still nowhere near pre-crisis levels, and the pickup hasn't been totally consistent. FRED Meanwhile, for a full preview of today's report, see here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee walks behind the logo of BNP Paribas in a company's building in Issy-les-Moulineaux, near ParisWASHINGTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. authorities negotiating with BNP Paribas over alleged sanctions violations at one point suggested that France's biggest bank pay a penalty as high as $16 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. While the sources said that number was only proposed as a negotiating tactic in response to an offer from BNP of about $1 billion, the dollar figures being thrown around demonstrate what bankers and their allies say is an alarming trend of ever-increasing record penalties. A $16 billion settlement would have pushed BNP's penalty above the biggest ever for a bank -- JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, which paid $13 billion last year to resolve a number of civil mortgage-related allegations. More recently, authorities have been discussing a settlement with BNP in the range of $10 billion, sources have said. U.S. authorities are probing whether BNP evaded U.S. sanctions relating primarily to Sudan between 2002 and 2009, and whether it stripped out identifying information from wire transfers so they could pass through the U.S. financial system without raising red flags. The New York State Department of Financial Services, one of the five offices negotiating the settlement with BNP, could receive at least $2 billion of an eventual $10 billion deal, according to a source familiar with the matter. That would be more than three times that office's $552 million annual budget this year. A $10 billion fine would almost wipe out BNP's entire 2013 pretax income of about 8.2 billion euros ($11.2 billion). BNP reserved $1.1 billion against a potential fine. Representatives of the Justice Department and BNP declined to comment on the negotiations. In the past two years the U.S. Justice Department has said it's broken records on penalties for corporate misconduct at least seven times, including three times this year alone. The most recent was Credit Suisse in May, which paid $2.6 billion over charges that it helped American evade U.S. taxes, the largest penalty ever levied in a criminal tax case. Total corporate criminal penalties in the United States overall increased about 647 percent between 2001 and 2012 to about $4.3 billion, according to figures compiled by University of Virginia law school professor Brandon Garrett. The robust growth in corporate penalties, especially for banks, has defense lawyers questioning how authorities calculate each landmark settlement and how institutions can prepare for such fines they might face. Banks are also deploying strategies to try to keep the numbers from growing, including enlisting top executives in settlement negotiations and taking their chances going to trial. "I think everyone realizes that it's an exuberant market," said one defense lawyer who has negotiated recent settlements with the Justice Department and declined to be named. There are multiple explanations for the rising fines. For one, cases related to the 2007-2009 financial crisis have produced big settlements connected to trillions of dollars in subprime mortgage financial products. U.S. authorities have also turned their attention to other crimes involving big dollar amounts, including money laundering, sanctions violations and the rigging of benchmark interest rates. The Justice Department may also be responding to political pressure, especially because no high-profile bankers have gone to jail for the role they played in fueling the financial crisis. Critics say recent penalties have not been nearly stiff enough, and amount to the cost of doing business. Regardless, the upward push of the settlements is stark. In cases over banks' money laundering controls, for example, criminal penalties have skyrocketed since 2010, when Wachovia forfeited $110 million to resolve charges that it willfully failed to establish a compliance program. By comparison, JPMorgan paid $1.7 billion earlier this year to resolve criminal charges over its failure to maintain an effective anti-money laundering program in connection with its business with convicted Ponzi schemer Bernard Madoff. A BNP settlement of $10 billion would be more than 14 times higher than the $667 million Standard Chartered paid to resolve sanctions violations in 2012, the highest fine for such violations to date. A former DOJ official said: "It's almost like more is law now." Sources familiar with the BNP settlement talks say there are clear justifications for a fine of as much as $10 billion, as well as other severe potential penalties, such as suspending BNP's ability to process dollar payments. They point to the sheer volume of the suspect transactions by BNP that allegedly violated U.S. sanctions: about 10 times larger than other banks which have resolved similar cases, according to a person familiar with the matter. A second source said the high level of senior management knowledge of the conduct is another contributing factor. A third consideration was the bank's poor cooperation with the government’s investigation, an element that also figured in Credit Suisse's guilty plea and record fine. Cases involving violations of U.S. sanctions also give prosecutors wide latitude to assess criminal penalties, prosecutors and defense lawyers said, since they are done as forfeitures rather than as fines calculated under sentencing guidelines. When Dutch lender ING Bank NV agreed to forfeit a then-record $619 million in 2012 over illegal transactions with Cuban and Iranian entities, court documents said the bank moved more than $2 billion on behalf of sanctioned entities. A deferred prosecution agreement that explained the fine said only that ING acknowledged that "at least" $619 million was involved in the transactions described. In general, sentencing guidelines provide a range of things to consider when calculating a corporate penalty, including the pervasiveness of the conduct and whether senior management participated in it, with the ability to discount a fine for companies who cooperate in an investigation and fix their problems. But even the guidelines offer wide ranges to determine penalties, leaving prosecutors with the discretion to charge the case in a way that gets them to a penalty they seek.     "The numbers are going up because they can," one former prosecutor said.     Sources also attributed some of the growth to the large number of agencies and offices involved in some investigations into financial institutions, each run by aggressive officials seeking their own stamp on a case. BNP is negotiating with at least five offices, including the U.S. Justice Department, the U.S. Attorney's Office in the Southern District of New York, the Treasury Department, the Manhattan District Attorney's office and the New York Department of Financial Services.            EXTORTION     Some lawyers representing major banks said they viewed the escalating penalties as essentially exploiting defendants who usually don't fight back in court.     "Lots of sophisticated observers view these as extortion at this point," said one bank lawyer who declined to be named. In an attempt to exert downward pressure on the penalties, some banks, including Bank of America, have tried to fight more, with mixed results. A federal jury in New York last October found the bank liable for fraud at its Countrywide unit, but a magistrate judge in North Carolina in March recommended dismissal of another Justice Department lawsuit against the bank over allegedly fraudulent mortgage securities.     Observers said the steep sums at stake have also forced top bank executives and bank allies to get more involved in settlement talks. JPMorgan's Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon traveled to Washington to visit U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder while the bank negotiated its $13 billion deal last year. In the case of BNP, numerous top French officials have intervened, including French President Francois Hollande, who appealed directly to the White House, asking whether the potential penalties will be fair and proportionate to any crime. In early May, BNP CEO Jean-Laurent Bonnafe and the bank's lawyers met with the New York Department of Financial Services and made a plea for leniency, one source said earlier this month.         BEYOND FINES Prosecutors and regulators have also looked to more tailored punishments beyond fines to try to improve conduct, including installing monitors and demanding terminations at a company. One of the major sticking points in settlement discussions with BNP has been the New York bank regulator's threat to temporarily suspend BNP Paribas's ability to clear U.S. dollar transactions. A suspension could be a significant blow for BNP Paribas, which clears hundreds of billions of dollars through New York every day.     The efforts to deter future misconduct have also pushed prosecutors to explore more prosecutions of individuals, with more of a focus on what executives' role at high levels of a company might have been in enabling misconduct, lawyers said.     "It's clear to me from the cases I'm handling that they are looking hard and long for cases to bring against individuals," another former prosecutor turned defense lawyer said. In general, prosecutors are looking to craft penalties that harm, but don't kill financial firms, especially those that are critical to the smooth functioning of larger markets.     "It's always supposed to be, the monetary penalty has to have some ability to hurt," said one former prosecutor who now counsels banks in criminal inquiries. "They need to come up with a number that hurts but allows them to keep doing business."         (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha and Karen Freifeld, with additional reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Karey Van Hall and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.orgGoldman economist David Mericle is out with his Jobs Report prediction, and it's not that bullish. He writes: We forecast a 210k increase in nonfarm payrolls in May, a touch softer than consensus expectations. Payroll gains have averaged 238k over the last three months, but the May employment data flow looks more mixed. As a result, we expect May to come in a bit below the trend-like rate of about 225k that we expect as growth accelerates in 2014. We expect that the unemployment rate rose two-tenths to 6.5% in May after a larger-than-expected four-tenths decline in April. The reason is that we expect that last month's four-tenths decline in the participation rate will be partially reversed, in part because most of it arose from an increase in non-participation for 'other reasons' rather than retirement or disability. Wage growth will likely remain a focus of attention this month, and we expect a 0.2% increase in average hourly earnings (AHE). Mericle then goes on to list a number of positive indicators and negative indicators — the negative ones include a spike in reported layoffs, and the weak ADP jobs report. Goldman isn't wildly off the consensus here, but still, a tad disappointing. FREE AppDownload
Margin CallA quick reminder here that there are actually two economic datapoints coming out today. The first is the Jobs Report, obviously, which comes out at 8:30 AM ET. Analysts expected over 200K, and an unemployment reading of 6.4%. However, if you're forced to stick around the office all day, there is some good news, because we get data this afternoon as well. At 3 PM we get the latest on consumer credit. Per Calculated Risk, economists are looking at an increase of $15.5 billion. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderTomorrow is Jobs Day: The May U.S. employment report is set for release tomorrow at 8:30 am ET. Here's what economists are expecting in tomorrow's report, according to data from Bloomberg: On the first Friday of every month, the Department of Labor issues its employment report for the prior month, detailing the total nonfarm payroll positions that were added to the economy and where the unemployment rate stands. Along with the U.S. GDP report, the U.S. jobs report is considered among the world's most important pieces of economic data.  Last month, the economy added 288,000 jobs, stronger than the 218,000 that had been expected, and the unemployment rate fell to 6.3% from 6.7%.  A big takeaway from last month's report was the decline in the labor force participation rate, which fell to 62.8%, the lowest level since 1978. The labor force participation rate is the percent of the civilian population employed or looking for work. There remains a big debate about whether slack remains in the labor force, so economists will be closely watching this number.  The economy has recently been showing signs of strength, with auto sales for May coming at their fastest pace since May 2007. ISM's manufacturing index, after two revisions, showed manufacturing activity that beat expectations in April.  At Societe Generale, Brian Jones and his team expect the report to show the economy added 240,000 jobs in May with the unemployment rate ticking down to 6.2%.  From SocGen:  "Our analysis suggests that market participants should be prepared for what might very well be the strongest overall canvass thus far in 2014. Improving business conditions, combined with normal seasonal weather patterns, likely boosted nonfarm payrolls by 240,000 in May, essentially matching the average job gain posted over the prior three- month span. A projected decline in our augmented insured unemployment gauge between household survey periods implies that the civilian jobless rate dipped to 6.2% – the lowest reading since September 2008. Other key labour-market metrics, in particular average hourly earnings, will probably flash green as well in the upcoming report." Jobless claims came in at 312,000 earlier this morning, but the four-week average for the reading fell to its lowest level since June 2007.  On Tuesday of this week, ADP reported that private U.S. companies added 179,000 jobs in May short of expectations for additions of 210,000, although Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson has argued the ADP report does a poor job of predicting the number. He sees nonfarm payrolls coming in at 230,000.  Chris Rupkey at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ sees nonfarm payrolls coming in at 210,000. Rupkey notes that this morning's jobless claims number was good news for the economy. Rupkey: "We don’t see the slack economic conditions that Fed officials see, and unemployment claims don’t either. Current conditions could not be any better. First-time jobless claims rose slightly by 8K to 312K in the May 31 week.  These are levels we tend to see during robust economic expansions, where any job losses are modest frictional ones in a normal, growing $17 trillion economy. Unemployment claims are better than they were in April... This is evidence, anecdotal to be sure, that we could get a big 200K plus payroll jobs tomorrow."  Rupkey adds that the labor markets are closing in on full employment. Financial estimates firm Estimize said its crowdsourced consensus expectations for tomorrow's report are currently at 243,000.  We've noted that this is the moment of truth for the U.S. economy, and tomorrow we'll get a big piece of the answer. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGood morning and Happy Jobs Day to all readers! Today is the greatest day of the month: At 8:30 AM we'll get the May Non-Farm Payrolls report. Analysts are expecting 215K new jobs, and the unemployment rate to tick up to 6.4%. In the meantime, markets are doing absolutely nothing, as has been the custom lately. Volatility remains ridiculously low, as market participants have become quite bored. Be sure to stay with BI for wall-to-wall Jobs Day coverage all day. FREE AppDownload
